BUZARD v. HOUSTON.
Syllabus.

the amount, $3000, payable in becember following. It is,
upon these drafts that the judgment was recovered in the
Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia, which is the foundation of the present suit. It is in evidence that the plaintiff
was fully aware, at the time, of the increase in the stock of
the company, and of its object. Six months afterwards, the
increase was cancelled, the outstanding shares were called in,
and the capital stock reduced to its original limit of $100,000.
Nothing was done after the increase to enlarge the liabilities

of the company. The eraft of Howes was passed to the Plaintiff and received by him at the time the agreement was c4rried
out upon which the increase of the stock was made; and the
,draft for $3000 was for an instalment upon the mortgage then
executed. The plaintiff had placed no Teliance upon the supposed paid-up capital of the company on the increased shares,
and, therefore, has no cause of complaint by reason of their
subsequent recall. Had a new indebtedness been created by
the company after the issue of the stock and before its recall,
a different question would have arisen. The creditor in that
case, relying on the faith of the stock being fully paid, might
have insisted upon its 'full payment. But no such new indebtedness was created, and we think, therefore, that the
stockholders cannot be called upon, at the suit of the plaintiff,
to pay in the amount of the stock, which, though issued, was
soon afterwards recalled and cancelled.
Judgment aflrmed:

BUZARD v. HOUSTO1N.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 2,1886.-Decided DWember 13,1886.

A court of equity of the United States will not sustain a bill in equity, in a
case of fraud, to obtain only a decree for the payment of money by way
of damages, when the like amount might be recovered in an action at law.
A bill in equity alleged that the defendant, after agreeing in writing to sell

OCTOBER 'TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.
to the plaintiff a certain number of cattle at a specified price, induced
him to surrender the agreement, and to receive instead thereof ai assignment from the defendant of a similar contract of a third petson
with "him, and also to pay the defendant a sum of money, and'. to give an
obligaAon to pay him another sum, by false and fraudulent representations as to the solvency of that person; and prayed for a cancellation of
the aforesaid assignment and obligation, for a reinstatement and confirmation of the original agreements, and its enforcement on such terms as
the court might direct, or else for a repayment of the sum paid, and for
damages, and for further relief. Held, that the bill showed no case for
relief in equity, because an action of deceit would afford a full, adequate,
and complete remedy.
If a bill in equity showing ground for legal and not for equitable relief,
prays for a discovery, as incidental only to the relief sought, and the
answer discloses nothing, but the plaintiff supports the claim by hidependent evidence, the bill must be dismissed; without prejudice to an
action at law.

This was a bill in equity, filed November 23, 1881, by
Buzard and Hillard, citizens of Missouri, against Houston, a
citizen of Texas, the material allegations of which were as
follows:
That the plaintiffs were partners in the business of pasturing and breeding cattle upon a tract of land owned by them
in the State of Texas, and on October 14, 1881, negotiated a
purchase from the defendants of fifteen hundred cows and
fifty bulls, to be delivered at Lampasas in that State in May,
1882, at the price of fifteen dollars and a half a .head, one
half payable upon the signing of the contract, and the other
half upon delivery of the cattle; that the terms of their
agreement were stated in a memorandum of that date, signed
by the parties, and intended as the basis of a more formal
contract to be afterwards executed; and that the plaintiffs at
once paid to the defendant $500 in part performance.
That on October 31, 1881, the parties resumed negotiations,
and met to complete the contract; that the defendant then
proposed that, in lieu of the contract with him for the cattle
mentioned in the memorandum, the plaintiffs should take from
bim -an assignment of a similar contract in writing, dated
August 13, 1881, and set forth in the bill, by which one Mosty
agreed to deliver to the defendant an equal number of similar

BUZARD v. HOUSTON.
Statement of Facts.

cattle, at the same time and place, at the price of fourteen
dollars a head.
That the defendant then stated that he had paid the sum of
$15,000 on the contract with Mosty; and asked _that, in case
of his assigning that contract to the plaintiffo, they should pay
him that sum, and also the difference of a dollar and a half a
head in the prices mentioned in the two contracts, but finally
proposed to deduct from this twenty-five cents a head.
That, as an inducement to the plaintiffs to make the exchange of contracts, the defendant represented to them that
Mlosty was good and solvent, and able to perform his contract ;
that he was better than the defendant, and then had on his
ranch twelve hundred head of the cattle; and that there was
no doubt of the performance of this contract, because pne
McAnulty was a partner with Mosty in its performance -of
all which the-plaintiffs knew nothing, except .that they knew
that McAnulty was a man of wealth, and fully able as well as
willing to perform his contracts.
That on November 1, 1881, the plaintiffs, believing and
relying on the defendant's representations aforesaid, accepted
his proposition, and paid the sun of 814,500, making, with the
sum of $500 already paid, the amount of $15,000, which he
alleged he had paid to Mosty on his contract; and executed
and delivered to the defendant their obligation to pay him,
on the performance by Mosty of that contract, an additional
sum of $1837.50, being the profit on the contract with Mosty
in the sale to the plaintiffs, less the deduction of twenty-five
cents a head; and returned to him his original contract with
them, and in lieu thereof received from him his contract with
Mosty iand his assignment thereof to the plaintiffs, endorsed
thereon, and set out in the bill, containing a provision that lie
should not be responsible in case of any failure of performance by Mosty.
That the aforesaid representations of the defendant were
absolutely untrue, deceitful and fraudulent, and were Icnown
by the defendant to be false, and the plaintiffs did not know
and had no means of knowing that they were untrue; that
those representations were intended by the defendant to de-

-350

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

ceive the plaintiffs, and did deceive them to thpir great injury,
to wit, to the extent of the amount of $15,000 paid by them
to him, and to the further extent of $10,000,. for the expenses
necessary to obtain other cattle, and for the loss of the increase
of such cattle for the next year by reason of the impossibility
of obtaining them in the exhausted condition of the market:
and that !Mosty at the time of the assignment was abstlutely
insolvent and had no property subject to be taken by his breditors, and his contract was utterly worthless, as the defehdant
then knew.
The -bill then stated that the plaintiffs brought into court
the contract between the defendant and M6sty,. that it might
be delivered up to the defendant; and also the assignment
thereof by the defendant to the plaintiffs, that it might be
cancelled.
The bill prayed for a discovery; for a rescission and cancellation of the assignment of the contract with Mosty, and also of
the plaintiffs' obligation to pay to the defendant the sum of
81837.50; for the repayment to the plaintiffs of the excess
of money received by the defendant from them beyond the
amount which they were to pay him under the original contract; for a reinstatement and confirmation of that contract,
and its enforcement upon such terms as the court might deem
just and proper; or, if that could not be done, that the defendant be compelled to restore to the plaintiffs the sums of $500
and $14,500 received from them, and also to pay them the
sum of $10,000 for damages which they had sustained by reason
of the defendant's fraudulently pbtaining the surrender of the
original contract, and by reason of the other injuries resulting
to them therefrom; and for further relief.
The defendant demurred to the bill, assigning as a cause of
*demurrer that the bill showed that the plaintiffs' only cause
of action, if any, was for the sums of money paid by them on
the contract, and for damages for breach of the contract, for
Which they had an adequate and complete remedy at law.
The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer.
The defendant then answered fully under oath, denying
that he made any of the representations alleged, and repeat-

BUZARD v. HOUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the defence taken by demurrer; the plaintiffs filed a general replication; conflicting testimdny was taken; at a hearing
upon pleadings and proofs, the bill was dismissed with costs;
and the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
br. Hf.

. Barnardfor appellants.

-fh 7ames F. X1iller, for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MTi. JusTCE GRA&Y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In the Judiciary Act of 1789, by which the first Congress
established the judicial courts of the United States and defined
their jurisdiction, it is enacted that "suits in equity shall not
be sustained in either of the courts of the United States, in
any case where plain, adequate and complete remedy may
be had at law." Act of September 24, 1789,,c. 20, ยง 16, 1
Stat. 82; Rev. Stat. ยง 723. Five day later, on September 29,
1789, the same Congress proposed to the legislatures of the
several States the Article afterwards ratified as the, Seventh
Amendment of the Constitution, which declares that "in suits
at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved."
1 Stat. 21, 98.
The effect of the provision of the Judiciary Act, as often
stated by this court, is that "whenever a court of law is competent to take cognizance of a right, and has power to proceed
to a judgment which affords a plain, adequate and complete
remedy, without the aid of a court of equity, the plaintiff
must proceed at law, because the defendant has a constitutional right to a trial by jury." MHip v. Babin, 19 How. 271,
278; Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 621; Grand
Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 373, 375; Iewis v. Cock&, 23 Wall.
466, 470 ; Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S.189, 212 ; Xilian v.
Ebingha.s, 110 U. S. 568, 573. In a very recent case the
court said: "This enactment certainly means something; and
if only declaratory of what was always the law, it must, at

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

least, have been intended to emphasize the rule, and to impress
it upon the attention of the courts." Xew York, Guaranty
Co. v. .Aemphis Water Co., 107 U. S. 205, 214.
Accordingly, a suit in equity to enforce a legal right can be
brought only when .the court can give more complete and
effectual relief, in kind or in degree, on the equity side than
on the common law side; as, for instance, by compelling a
specific performance, or the removal of a cloud on the title to
real estate; or preventing an injury for which damages are
not recoverable at law, as in Watsonz v. Sutte2'land, 5 Wall.
74; or where an agreement procured by fraud is of'a continuing nature, and its rescission will prevent a multiplicity of suits,
as in Boyce v. Gpundy, 3 Pet. 210, 215, and in Jones v. Bollev,
9 Wall. 364, 369.
In cases of fraud or mistake, as under any other head of
chancery jurisdiction, a court of the United States will not
sustain a bill in equity to obtain only a decree for the payment of money by way of damages, when the like amount can
be recovered at law in an action sounding in tort or for money
had and received. Parke-'sbargv..Bown, 106 U. S. 487, 500;
Ambler v. Choteau, 107 U. S. 586; Litch~feld v. Ballou, 114
U. S. 190.
In England, indeed, the court ol chancery, in cases of
fraud, has sometimes maintained bills in equity to recover the
same damages which might be recovered in an action for
money had and received. But the reason for this, as clearly
brought out by Lords Justices Knight Bruce and Turier in
&im v. Croucher, 1 D., F. & J. 518, 527, 528, was that such
cases were within the ancient and original jurisdiction in chancery, before any court of law, had acquired jurisdiction of
them, and that the assumption of jurisdiction by the courts of
law, by gradually extending their powers, did not displace the
earlier jurisdiction of the court of chancery. Upon any other
ground, such bills could not be maintained. ClifortZd v.
Brooke, 13 Ves. 131; ThonTsoi v. Barclay, 9 Law Journal
(Oh.) 215, 218. And we have not been referred to any
instance in which an English court of equity has maintained
a bill in. such a case as that now before us. In JArewham

BUZARD v. HOUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

v. May, 13 Price, 749, Chief Baron Alexander said: "It is
not in every case of fraud that relief is to be administered by
a court of equity. In the case, for instance, of a fraudulent
warranty on the sale of a horse, or any fraud upon the sale of
a chattel, no one, I apprehend, ever thought of filing a bill in
equity."
The present bill states a case for which an action of deceit
could be maintained at law, and would afford full, adequate,
and complete remedy. The original agreement for the sale of
a number of cattle, and not of any cattle in particular, does
not belong to the class of conracts of which equity would
dezree specific performance. If the plaintiffs should be ordered to be reinstated in all their rights under that agreement,
and )ermitted now to tender performance thereof on their
part, the only relief which they could have in this suit would
be a decree for damages to be assessed by the same rules as in
an action at law. The shilar contract with Mosty and the
assignment thereof to the plaintiffs are in the plaintiffs' own
possession, and no judicial rescission of the assignment is
needed. If the exchange of the contracts was procured by
the fraud alleged, it would be no more binding upon the
plaintiffs at law than in equity; and in an action of deceit the
plaintiffs might treat the assignment of the contract with
Mosty as void, and, upon delivering up that contract to the
defendant, recover full damages for the non-performance of the
original agreement. No relief is sought against Mosty, and
he is not made a party to the bill. The obligation executed
by the plaintiffs to the defendant is not negotiable, so that
there is no need of an injunction. A judgment for pecuniary
damages would adjust and determine all the rights of the
parties, and is the only redress to which the plaintiffs, if they
prove their allegations, are entitled. There is theref6re no
ground upon which the bill can be maintained. Insiarunce Co.
v. Balky, 13 Wall. 616, and other cases above cited.
The comparative weight due to conflicting testimony such
as was introduced in this case can be much better determined
by seeing and hearing the witnesses than upon written depositions or a printed record.
VOL. cxx-23

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Dissenting, Opinion: Bradley, 3.

This case does not require us to enter upon a consideration
of the question, under what circumstances a bill showing no
ground for equitable relief, and praying for discovery as incidental only to the relief souglit, is open to a demurrer to the
whole bill, or may, if discovery is obtained, be retained for
th 9 pur p oses of granting full relief, within the rule often stated
i the books, but as to the proper limits of which the authorities are conflicting. It is enough to say that the case clearly
falls within the statement of Chief Justice Mfarshall: "But
this rule cannot be abused by being employed as a mere pretext for bringing causes, proper for a court of law, into a court
of equity. If the answer of the defendant discloses nothing,
and the plaintiff supports his, claim by evidence in his own
possession, unaided by the confessions of the defendant, the
established rules, limiting the jurisdiction of courts, require
that he should be dismissed from the court of chancery, and
permitted to assert his rights in a court of law.'? Russell v.
Clarke, 7 Cranch, 69, 89. See also Horsbu;rg v. Baker, 1 Pet.
232, 236; Brown v. Swarm, 10 Pet. 497, 503.
The decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill generally, might be considered a bar to an action at law, and it is
therefore, in accordance with the precedents in' RIogers v.
.Durant,106 _U. S. 644, and the cases there cited,
Ordered that the decree be reversed, aind the cause remanded
with directions to enter a decree dismissingthe bill foj want
of jurisdictio%, and without ffrejudice to an action at law.
MR. JusTicE Br.DnLY dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment in this case so far as it directs
the bill to be dismissed by the court below for want of equitable jurisdiction. The complainant had been induced to give
up a contract for cattle made to him by the defendant, and to
accept in lieu of it an assignment from the defendant of a contract, which he had from a third person who was insolvent,
and whose insolvency was not known by the complainant, but
was known by the defendant, though he asserted that the
third person was entirely responsible. The bill seeks to abro-

