DAINESE v. KENDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

DAINESE v. KENDALL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIcr
OF COLMAIBIA.
Argued October 22, 18S6.-Decided November 15, ISMt.

A decree, to be final for the purposes of appeal, mu~tleave the case in such
a condition that, if there be an affirmance in this court, the court below
will have nothing to do but to execute the decree it has already entered'.

This was a motion to dismiss. The case is stated in the'
opinion of the court.
.r. Job Barnardfor the motion. "31r. James . .dwards
was with him on the brief. .Xr. R. Ross Peery for appellee'.
Kendall.
-Mr'. J. i.. Douglass opposing.
was with him on the brief.
YM.

CHIMF JUSTICE W&rrE

.X. George L. Dougkss

delivered the opinion of the

court.
When this case was called for hearing a motion was mad6
to dismiss because the decree appeale&lfromn was not a final
decree. The facts are these:
The bill was filed by Dainese as the holder of oup of three
notes of Gordon, secured by a deed of trust from Gordon to
McPh~rson, trustee, agaifist the maker of the notes, the
trustee, and John E. Kendall the holder of the other notes,
praying:
1. That a sale which had been made of the trust property
by McPherson, the trustee acting under the deed of trust, to
Kendall, be set aside and a new sale ordered.
2. That Kendall be required to account for rents of tho
trust property which had been collected by him while in possession under a power of attorney from Gordon, authorizing
him to receive the rents, and, after paying expenses and cer-

'OCTOBER TERM, 1k886.
Opinion of the,Court.

tain specified demands, apply the proceeds *upon the debt
secured by the trust; and
3. For an account of what was due to himself and to Kendall upon the notes they severally held, and that the proceeds
of the sale which had been made, or if that should be set
aside, of any that might thereafter be made, be divided between them in proportion to the amounts due, them respectively.
Afterwards, and before any decree, McPherson filed a crossbill praying an account between Dainese and Kendall, and an
apportionment of the proceeds of the sale among them, and
also an allowance to himself of commissions and counsel
fees. • .
The court at special term set aside the sale, but. before anything further was done Kendall bppealed to the general term.
At the general term the order of the special term was reversed, the sale ratified and confirmed, and the cause remanded
to the special term "for further proceedings." When the
case got back to the special term Kendall moved a reference
to an auditor to make distribution of the proceeds of the sale,
but while this motion was pending, and before anything else
ivas done, Dainese took this appeal.
From this statement it is apparent that fhe decree appealed
from is not a final decree within the meaning of that term as
used in the statute allowing appeals to this court. The litigation of the parties on the merits of the case has not been terminated. An account of the-rents collected by Kendall while
in possession has not been taken; and the amounts due
Dainese and Kendall respectively on the notes which they
severaly hold have not been ascertained. All this is necessary for the purposes of the relief asked for in the bill, and
the cause was sent back from the general term for further
proceedings on that account. The authorities are uniform to
the effect that a decree to be final for, the purposes of an
appeal must leave the case in such a condition that if there be
an affirmance here the court below will have nothing to do
but to execute the decree.it has already entered. Bostwick v.
Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3; Grant v. PAnix In. Co., 106

