MINNEAPOLIS, &c., R'Y v. COLUMVUS R'G MILL. 14
Statement of Facts.

AMTNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v.
COLUMBUS ROLLING MILL.
ERROR TO THE ORCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued November 12, 1886.-Decided November 29,1886.

A reply to an offer of sale, purporting to accept it on terms varying from
those offered, is a rejection of the offer and leaves it no longer open.
On December 8, A offered to sell to B 2000 to 5000 tons of iron rails on certain terms specified, adding that if the offer was accepted A would expect
to be notified prior to December 20. On December 16, B replied, directing
A to enter an order for 1200 tons, "as per your favor of the 8th." On
December 18, A declined to fulfil B's order. Held, that the negotiation
between the parties was closed, and that an acceptance by B on December 19 of the original offer didl not bind A.
The submission of a question of law to the jury is no ground of exception
if they decide it aright.

This was an action by a railroad corporation established at
Minneapolis in the State of Minnesota against a manufacturing
corporation established at Columbus in the State of Ohio;
The petition alleged that on December 19, 1879, the parties
made a contract by which the plaintiff agreed to buy of tho
defendant, and the defendant sold to the plaintiff, two thousand tons of iron rails of the weight of fifty pounds per yard,
at the price of fifty four dollars per ton gross, to be delivered
free on board cars at the defendant's rolling mill in the month
of March, 1880, and to be paid for by the -plaintiff in cash
when so delivered. The answer denied the making of the
contract. It was admittel at the trial that the following letters and telegrams were sent at their dates, and were received
in due course, by the parties, through their agents:
December 5, 1879. Letter from plaintiff to defendant:
"Please quote me prices for 500 to 3000 .tons 50 lb. steel rails,
and for 2000 to 5000 tons 50 lb. iron rails, March 1880 delivery."
December 8, 1879. Letter from defendant to plaintiff:
"Your favor of the 5th inst. at hand. We do not make steel
rails. For iron rails, we will sell 2000 to 5000 tons of 50 lb.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

rails for fifty-four ($54.00) dollars per gross ton for spot cash,
F. 0. B. cars at our mill, March delivery, subject as follows:
In case of strike among our workmen, destruction of or serious
•damage to our works by fire or the elements, or any causes of
delay beyond our control, we shall not be held accountable in
damages. If our offer is accepted, shall expect to be notified
of same prior to Dec. 20th, 1879."
December 16, 1879. Telegram from plaintiff to defendant:
"Please enter our order for twelve hundred tons rails, March
delivery, as per your favor of the eighth. Please reply."
December 16, 1879. ILetter from plaintiff to defendant:
"Yours of the 8th came duly to hand. I telegraphed you
to-day to enter our order for twelve hundred (1200) tons 50 lb.
iron rails for hext March delivery, at fifty-four dollars ($54.00)
F. 0. B. cars at your mill. Please send contract. Also please
send me templet of your 50 lb. rail. Do you make splices?
If so, give me prices for splices for this lot of iron."
December 18, 1879. Telegram from defendant to plaintiff,
received same day: "We cannot book your order at present
.at that price."
December 19, 1879. Telegram from plaintiff to defendant:
'"Please enter an order for two thousand tons rails, as per your
letter of the sixth. Please forward written contract. Reply."
[The word -"sixth" was admitted to be a mistake for "eighth."]
December 22, 1879. Telegram from plaintiff to defendant:
"Did you enter my order for two thousand tons rails, as per
my telegram of December nineteenth? Answer."
After repeated similar inquiries by the plaintiff, the defendant, on January 19, 1880, denied the existence of any contract
between the parties.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendant, under instructions which need not be particularly stated; and*the plaintiff
alleged exceptions, and sued out this writ of error.
!MrE ipa 1Tzntda for plaintiff in error. 21fr. C. N. Ods
and -Mr.I. J. (ritc4qield filed a brief for same.
.,/r. P,;chardA. ffariso, for-defendant in error, submitted
on his brief.

MINNEAPOLIS, &c., IVY v. COLUMBUS R'G MILL. 151
Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JusTiOE GrAvy, after making the foregoing statement-of
the case, delivered the opinion. of the court.

The rules of law which govern this case are well settled.
As no contract is complete without the mutual assent of the
parties, an offer to sell imposes no obligation until itisaccepted according to its terms. So long as the offer has
been neither atcepted nor rejected, the negotiation remains
open, and imposes no obligation upon either party; the one
may decline to accept., or the other may withdraw his offer;
and either rejection or withdrawal leaves the matter as if no
offer had ever been made. A proposal to accept, or an acceptance, upon terms varying from those offered, is a rejection of the
offer, and puts an end to the negotiation, unless the party who
made the original offer renews it, or assents to the modification suggested. The other party, having once rejected the
offer, cannot afterwards revive it by tendering an acceptance
of it. Eliaeso v. Henssaw, 4 Wheat. 225; Ccrr v. Duval, 14
Pet. 77; .National Bank v. Hall, 101 U. S. 43, 50; Hflyde v.
WeeneA, 3 Beavan, 334; Fox v. Tuner', 1 Bradwell, 153. If
the offer does not limit the time for its acceptance, it must be
accepted within a reasonable time. If it does, it may, at any
time within the limit and so long as it remains open, be accepted or rejected by the party to whom, or be withdrawn by
the party by whom, it was made. Boston, & a ne Raib'oad
v. Bae'lett, 3 Cush. 224; Dickinson.v. Doddy, 2 Ch. D. 463.
The defendant, by the letter of December -8,
offered to sell
to the plaintiff two thousand to five thousand tons of iron rails
on certain terms specified, and added that if the offer was accepted the defendant would expect to be notified prior to December 20. This offer, while it remained open, withonit having
been rejected by the plaintiff or revoked by the defendant,
would aathorize the plaintiff to take at his election any nmnber of tons not less than two thousand nor more than five
thousand, on the terms specified. The offer, while unrevoked,
might be accepted or rejected by the plaintiff at any rime
before December 20. Instead of accepting the offer made, the
plaintiff, on December 16, by telegram and letter, referring to

