WILLIAMSPORT BANK v. KNAPP.
Statement of Facts.

No reason is shown for sustaining the appeaL So far as
the plaintiff's claim was against Isaac Cohn personally, an action at law to recover the value of the property fraudulently
concealed and sold by him would afford a full, adequate and
complete remedy. The only pretence for -resorting to equity
was the allegation that the proceeds of that property had been
invested in the stock in goods of a business carried on by him
in the name of the other defendant, whereby it was sought to
affect the latter and the goods with a trust in favor of the
creditors of Isaac, and of the plaintiff as representing them.
But the proof wholly failed to support that allegation, and
showed that the plaintiff had no right of action, except to
recover pecuniary damages against Isaac alone. It thus appeared that the plaintiff never had any claim within the
cognizance of a court of equity; and the bill was rightly dismissed generally as to the second defendant- and without prejudice to an action at law against the first defendant. IDowell
v. ;Jltckhell, 105 U. S.430; B uzard v. Houston, ant, 347, just
decided.
.Deeree afleyned.

WILLIAMSPORT BANK v. KNAPP.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 23, 24, 1886.-Deeided December 13,1886.

Each question certified to this court upon a division of opinion of the judges
in the Circuit Court must be a distinct point of law, clearly stated, and
not the whole case, nor whether upon the evidence judgment should be
for one party or for the other.

The original action was debt on § 5198 of the'Revised Statutes, brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, against a national banking
association established within that district, to recover twice the
amount of interest, at the rate of nine per cent., received by the

,858

OCTOBER TEIWM,' 1886..
Statement of Facts.

defendant upon the discount of certain promissory notes. Sec,tion 5197 prohibits any such association from receiving upon
such a discount a higher rate of interest than is allowed by
the laws of*the State in which the bank is established, except
that where by the laws of the State "a different rate is limited
for banks of issue organized under State laws," the rate so
limited is allowed. The answer denied that the defendant
owed the sums demanded, or had violated any provision of the
national banking act.
The record showed that at the trial certain oral testimony,
therein stated, was offered by the plaintiffs in support of their
allegations, was .objected to by the defendant, the objection
was overruled, and the defendant took exceptions. The record
also showed that the defendant, for the purpose of proling
that at the time of the discounts in question there were banks
of issue, organize& under the laws of Pennsylvania, allowed to
receive interest on discounts at as high a rate as .that received
by the defendant, offered in evidence charters from the legis. lature of Pennsylvania of a number of banks, (the titles of
which were given,) some of which were thereby expressly authorized to receive interest at such rates as might be agreed
upon by the parties; and also offered in-evidence a number of
other bank chartbrs, in connection with evidence that some of
the banks issued notes of circulation, commonly ca',ed bank
notes, witho-dt special authorization of law, in order "to show
that incorporated banks and banking companies .in Pennsylvania issued notes of circulation, commonly called bank notes,
under their respective general corporate powers, and not by
virtue of any special authorization of law to issue such notes ;
and to show that incorporated banks and banking companies
in Pennsylvania. not specially prohibited from issuing such
notes, are banks of issue within the, meaning of the act of
Congress, by virtue of their incorporation and organization as
banks or banking companies, and without any special authorization of law to issue such notes;" and the evidence so offered
by the defendant was objected to by the plaintiffs, and admitted subject to their exception.
The record further showed that a verdict was returned for

WILLIAgSPORT BANK v. K-NAPP.
Counsel for Defendants in Error.

the plaintiffs, and that the Circuit Judge and the District
Judge signed a certificate that they were 6pposed in 'opinion
upon -the following questions arising at the trial:
"First. Whether under the evidence the defendant was
legally authorized to take, receive, reserve and charge on the,
loans or discounts made for the plaintiffs upon the notes, bills
of exchange and other evidehces of debt, offered and received
in evidence on the part of the plaintiffs, at 'the rate of interest charged by the defendant and paid by the plaintiffs, as
shown in evidence, to wit, at the rate of nine per centum per.
annum.
"Secoild. 'Whether under the laws of the State of Penmsylvania a rate of interest or discount was limited for banks of
issue, organized under State laws, at a rate equal to or exceeding that charged by the defendant to the plaintiffs, and
whether the defendant was,, under the evidence and the act,
of Congress, allowed to take; receive, reserve and charge tha
rate so limited for the discounts made for the plaintiffs, to wit,'
at the rate of nine per centum per annum.
- "Third. Whether-the decision of the Supreme Cont of
Pennsylvania, ' that there are no banks, nor have there been
any such banks in Pennsylvania, authorized to take and receive interest at a greater rate than six per celxt.,' is binding
and conclusive upon the judgment of the courts of the Ufited
States in determining the construction and effect in'
Pennylvania of the acts of Congress commonly called the currency
acts, and especially §§ 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
"Fourth. Whether upon the whole evidence the plaintiff
was entitled to recover."
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs in the sum of
82150.38, and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
31r. C. Ia _Rue lf-unson and .f,., 'lliam,H. Arnmtrong for
plaintiff in error. iL>. Henry Tf. Watsov was with them on
the brief.
" . Henry C Parsoans and ill,. Henrwy C. 3McComnick for
defendants in error. 111r. J. C. Bill and 111e. H. T. Ames
,were with them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Mn. JusTICE GRAy, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Assuming, what does not appear in the record, that the evidence stated in the bills of exceptions was all the evidence
introduced at the trial and referred to in the certificate of
division, that certificate is clearly insufficient to support the
jurisdiction of this court.
Under the acts of Congress, authorizing questions arising
on a trial or hearing before two judges in the Circuit Court,
and upon which they are divided in opinion, to be certified to
this court for decision, it has always been held that each question certified must be one of law, .and not of fact, nor of
mixed law and fact, and. that it must be a distinct point or
proposition, clearly stated, and not the whole case, nor the
question whether upon the evidence the judgment should be
for one party or for the other. Saundeis v. Gould, 4 Pet.
392 ; UnitedZ States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 267; T]eeth v. ziVew Eny/land Jllortgage Co., 106 U. S. 605.; Cialfotnia Paving Co. v.
JfIolito,', 113 U. S. 609, 615-617; Wate'ville v. VaTnSlyke, 116
U. S. 699-704.
Tested by these *rules, the first and second questions certified, each being whether "under the evidence" the defendant
was authorized to receive interest at a certain rate, as well as
the fourth question, "whether upon the whole evidence the
plaintiff was entitled to recover," are not questions which this
court is required or authorized to answer.
The third question is equally irregular and insufficient. Instead of being clearly and distinctly stated, it is quite obscure
and ambiguous, for it does not show whether the supposed
decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, "that there
are no banks, nor have there been any such banks in Pennsylvania, authorized to take and receive interest at a greater rate
than six per cent.," was based upon matter of law, or matter
of fact, or both. The latest reported decision of that court,
to which the iearned counsel for the plaintiff in error referred
to explain this question, affirmed a ruling of a lower court
that, "in-fact and in law, there is i/o bank of issue in Penn-

