454

-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

CLEVELAND, COLUMBUS, &c.,' RAILROAD
v. M cCLUNG.
EP-OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES *FOR THE.,
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF OHIO.
Argued November 12, 1886.-Decided December 13, 1886.

A suit against a collector of the customs in a State court, in which the declaration alleges that the collector by his deputy delivered imported goods
upon which there was a lien for freight to the consignee on receipt of
the freight charges, without notifying the carrier as required by the act
of June 10, 1880, § 10, 21 Stat. 175, and which seeks to recover the
money so received, is removable into the Circuit Court of the United
States under Rev. Stat. § 643, although the collector may allege in his
defence that the act charged was not done.
A collector of customs is not authorized by the provisions of the act of
June 10, 1880, c. 202, 21 Stat. 173, to collect the freight'upon the trans.ported goods, or to receive it fcr the lien-holder; and if a deputy-collector, who acts as cashier of the collector, does so collect or receive the'
freight, his act is an unofficial act which entails no official responsibility
upon the collector, his superior.

The following is the case as stated by the court.
The case presents the following facts: D. W. McClungheld the office of coll~ctor of customs and surveyor of the port
of the city of Cincinnati, under the laws of the United States,
and J. L. Wartman was employed by him, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury, as deputy collector of customs. As such deputy Wartman acted as the cashier of the
collector. Section 10 of the act of June 10, 1880, c. 190, 21
Stat. 175, is as follows:
That whenever the proper officer of the customs
. .
shall be duly notified in writing of the existence of a lien for
freight upon imported goods, wares, or merchandise in his
cu,.ody, he shall, before delivering such . . . merchandise to the importer, owner, or consignee thereof, give reasonable notice to the party or parties claiming the lien; and the
possession by the officers of customs shall not affect the dis-

CLEVALAND, COLUMB'US,, &c., R'7 i.McCLUNG.

455

Statement of Facts.

charge of such lien, under such regulations as the Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe; and such officer may refuse the.
delivery of such merchandise from any public or bonded warehouse or other place in which the same shall be deposited,
until proof to his satisfaction shall be produced that-the freight
thereon has been paid or secured; but the rights of the United
States shall not be prejudiced thereby, nor shall the United
States or its officers be in any manner liable for losses consequent upon such refusal to deliver. If merchandise so subject'
to a lien, regarding which nofice has been filed, shall be forfeited, to the United States and sold, the freight due thereon
shall be paid from the proceeds of such sale in the same manner,
as other charges and expenses authorized by law to be paid.
therefrom are paid." This is part of "an act to amend the
statutes in relation to immediate transportation of dutiable
goods."
The Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railroad Company was a common carrier, and as such designated
by the Secretary of the Treasury for the purpose of receiving-and'transporting dutiable goods from the port of arri-al to
the port of destination under this act of Congress. As such
carrier, so designated, this company carried to Cincinnati large
quantities of dutiable goods, the freight and charges upon
which amounted in the aggregate to $8477.50, and placed
them in the ustody and control of McClung as collector of
customs and surveyor of the port, and, as is claimed, notified
him in writing of its lien as carrier for such freight and charges.

Wartman, as deputy collector, had charge, under McClung, of
the collection of customs payable at the port of Cincinnati,
and of the delivery of imported merchandise to the consignees
thereof. He received the freight and charges due the company
from the consignees of these goods at the same time that he'
received the duties, and delivered the goods to the consignees
without notifying the company. The charges were never paid.
by him either to the company or to McClung.
Such being the conceded facts, this suit was brought against
McClung in the Superior Court of Cincinnati. In the petition
it is averred that McCluhg was collector, &c. ; that the rail-

Ob'TOBER TERM, 1886.

456

Statei2ent of Facts.
road company had carried and delivered the goods to him
under the act, charged with a lien thereon for freight, of
which due notice was given to him in writing, as provided in
the act; and "that it became and was the duty of the defendant, as such officer, to refuse to deliver the said goods and
merchandise until such freight thereon had been paid to the
common carrier." Itis thea averred that the consignees paid
the charges due the company to the defendant, "and the
defendant then and there received" the same "for the account
and benefit of the said . . . company, and the defendant
then and thereupon caused the said goods and merchandise to
'be delivered to the consignees, . . . without notice to th 6
railroad company, whereby its lien for said freight was lost;
and that "the defendant, though, often requested, has not paid
said" money to the plaintiff, but the same, "with interest from
September 8th, 1881, is now due and unpaid from the defendant*
to the plaintiff."
Summons in the action was served on McClung, March 21,
1882, and on the 7th of November following he filed, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Ohio, his petition, under § 643 of the Revised Statutes, for
a.writ of certiorarito the State court, requiring that court to
send to the Circuit Court the record and proceedings in the
cause, on the ground that, "at the time the said acts charged
in such petition are alleged to have been done, he was, and
still is, an officer of the United States, appointed and acting
under the authority of the revenue laws of the United States,
*
*
all his acts in connection with the receipt and delivery of the merchandise described in said petition were done
by him under color of his said office." Upon this petition a
writ of eertiorariwas issued and the record and proceedings
removed. Upon the entry of the cause in the Circuit Court
the railroad company moved that it be remanded, "for the
reason that this court has no jurisdiction of the person or
subject-matter of the action." This notion was denied, November 15, 1882, and on the 12th of February, 1883, McClung
answered the petition in the suit, denying that he hadI been
notified of the lien, or that it had ever become his duty to re.and

CLEVELAND, COLUIMBUS, &c.,

'D v. McCLUNi4.

457

Statement of Facts.

fuse to deliver the goods until the freight was paid, and also
denving that he had ever received the freight for the benefit
of the company.
Upon the trial it was shown that the freight and charges
were paid to Wartman at the same time with the duties, and
that, upon such payment, the goods were delivered to the consignees, without notice to the carriers. The plaintiff also
offered further evidence "tending to prove that it had been
the general usage and custom prevailing at the custom office
of Cincinnati for ten years prior to the appointment of, the
defendant, and was the general usage and custom at the said
office after the defendant's appointment, on M,arch 18th, 1881;
and down to the 8th of September, 1881, for the consignees of
imported goods brought to the port of Cincinnati by all the
common carriers who are authorized under said act to transport imported merchandise to the port of its destination, to
pay the freights due to such common carrier at the office of'
the collector and of the cashier deputy of the surveyor of the
.
.
notice in writing of the existence of a
port when a
lien thereon in favor of the carrier had 'been given to'the
deputy collector at such office, and that such payments were"
exacted and required by the deputy collector as a precedent
condition to the delivery of such goods by the surveyor of
the port to the owners and consignees thereof, and that such
freights were paid, together with the duties due upon such imported goods, to such deputy collector, sometimes in money,
but most generally in checks, which included duties due to the
government and the freights due for the carriage of said goods,
and which checks were drawn by the consignees in favor of
the surveyor of the port by name, or of the ' collector' or,
' surveyor ' of customs at the port of Cincinnati, which checks
were indorsed and collected by such deputy collector for the,
collector or surveyor in his official capacity, andwere collected
in the usual coburse of business by such deputy collector; and
that, upon the receipt of such money or checks in payment of
duties and freight, the goods were, by the order of said deputy,
with the acquiescence of the surveyor of the port, delivered to
the respective consignees; and that the deputy collector, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

his official capacity, accounted with and paid over the freights
so collected to the common carrier of such imported goods,
from time to time, as the same were demanded."
There was also evidence tending to prove that the payments
in this case were made in accordance with this custom and
upon-the demand of Wartman.
McClung was sworn as a witness in his own behalf, and
testified that Wartman was acting as deputy when he came
into office, and attending to the receipt of duties, and was continued in the same service by him; that he was never authorized to sign or indorse checks, and that he, MfcClung, was not
aware that he had ever done so. He also testified that he had
no knowledge whatever of the fact that Wartman was receiving freight moneys until September 6, 1881, which was after
all these payments were made, an that there was not kept in
the office any account of moneys ieceived for freights.
At the close of the testimony the court charged the jury,
among other things, as follows:
"In order to authorize a recovery against the defendant for
failing to give the seasonable notice to the plaintiff required
by the statute, before delivering the goods to the owners or
consignees, an averment that the freights due plaintiff and
for which it had a lien were owing and unpaid is n-ecessary.
There is no such averment in the plaintiff's petition in this
case; on the contrary, it distinctly avers that the consignees
did pay the freights to the defendant, and, while it does not
say in express terms that it authorized such payments to be
made, by demanding and suing for the same, as it has done,
ratifies and confirms the payments, and claims that the money
was received for its account and benefit, and demands judgment therefor. This is in fact the geavaiwm of its complaint,
the theory upon which its suit rests, and the court instructs
that you are :here to try this case upon the hypothesis that
the freights due from the consignees to the plaintiff for the
carriage of the goods in question were paid before the goods
were delivered by the defendant to the consignees, and that
the defendant was therefore under no legal duty to give the
plaintiff notice of his intention t6 make such delivery."

CLEVELAND, COLUMBUS, &c., R'D. v. McCLUNG. 459
Statelefit of Facts.

"It was competent for the parties, by express contract, or
by a tacit understanding resulting from an established course
of business, for the benefit and convenience of both parties, to
agree that the defendant should receive the freights due the
carrier for the account of the latter, and upon receipt thereof
deliver the goods to the owners or consignees, and that such
receipts by him should be in lieu of the notice which the law
required him to give the carrier in the contingency described,
by the statute. It may be that such tacit or implied' agreement existed between these parties in this case. This is the
question for you to determine. The defendant.was under no
official or legal obligation to undertake to thus act -for .the
plaintiff. If he did so, he was but acting in his private
capacity and not in the discharge of any official duty. It not
being an official duty, his deputy could not thus act by reason
of his official relations to his superior, and the defendant,
would not be liable for such extra official action unless he had
in some way authorized his deputy so to act, or unless he has
so acted as to estop him from denying that the deputy was in
the specific matter complained of acting by his authority for
him."
"If defendant had knowledge of this custom, acquired from
observation from the business and books of his office, or
through other sources, and acquiesced therein, and permitted
the plaintiff to make its collections through his deputy .in the,
belief that he was acting for and as his agent, or.by his acts
or declarations represented or held him out as his agent in the
matter, the plaintiff and defendant, both understanding and
tacitly or otherwise agreeing that the freights due the plaintiff
should be paid- in this way, in lieu of the notice which the
statute in the contingency described required the defendant as
collector to give to the plaintiff, he would be liable to 'the
'plaintiff for all sums so paid to the deputy for the plaintiff's
use."
11If the deputy acted without authority from the defendant,
and the defendant did not know of his said action, nor hold,
him out to the plaintiff as his agent, nor do nor say anything
to mislead the plaintiff nor its officers nor agents, nor under-

OCTOBER TERM[,

186.

Opinion of the Court.

take nor assume to collect plaintiff's freight- he would not be
liable to plaintiff's demand, and your veidict ough to be in
his favor."
To all this the railroad company excepted. .There were
other instructions to which exceptions were also taken, but
they were all substantially embraced in the above, and it' is
unnecessary to repeat them here.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendant, upon which
a judgment was entered, and the case is now here for review.
The errors assigned were (1), that the court overruled the
motion to remand; and (2), that it instructed the jury as
above stated.
TF
Kit:2r. S. H. Holding for plaintiff in error (1H. .
tr'edge was on the brief) cited: Dignan v. Shields, 51 Texas,
322; Badger v. Gutierez, 111 U. S. 734; Ogden v. 3faxwell, 3
Blatchford, 319; Ifclntyre v. T'umbull, 7 Johns. 35; 3fason
v. -Par'mon, 9 How. 248; CUlinton v. Strong, 9 Johns. 370;
2fartin, v. Webb, 110 U. S. 7; Case v. Bank, 100 U. S. 446;
King v. -Bangs,120 Mass. 514; Gooding v. Shear, 103 Mass.
360.
-YTr. Benjamin B utterlworth (.1&. Chaning Richa,ds was
with 'him on the brief) cited: United Stata3 v. Colliep, 3
Blatchford, 349; JMhi~feld v. _& Despencer, Cowp. 7541; Wiggins v. Hatlt.way, 6 Barb. 632; Conwell v. TVoorhees, 13 Ohio,
523; . C. 42 Am. Dec. 206; Bissac v. lawrence, 2 Blatchford, 121; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; Osborn v. Bank
- of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WArT,
the opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered

The removal was under § 643 of the Revised Statutes, which
*provides, among other things, for the removal of "a civil suit
commenced in any court of a, State against an officer
appointed under or acting by authority of any revenue law of
. on account of any act done under
the United States, .
-color of his office." This-is a suit against a collector of cus.

CLEVELAND, COLUMBUS, &c., R'D v. IcCLUNG: .461
Opinion of the Court.

toms, an officer appointed under the revenue laws of the United
States, for an act alleged to have been done by him in the
delivery of dutiable goods placed in his hands by virtue'of his
office subject to a carrier's lien. His liability, if any there is,
grows out of his official duty to keep the goods and deliver
them to the consignees thereof when the import duties axe paid
and the carrier's lien discharged. The allegation is, that the
collector, in'stead of notifying the carrier, as the law requiredi
delivered the goods to the consignees on receiving himself the
moneys due -forthe carrier's charges. This suit is for the money
so received. Clearly, then, according to the allegations of the
petition, the suit is for an act done by the collector under color
of his office. This is not seriously denied, but the claim is,
that, as the defendant insists, and the court below has decided,
that, it was not the official duty of the collector to collect the
carrier's money, and, therefore, that he is not liable for'the acts
of his deputy in that behalf, the suit is really one that could
fiot be removed. But the petition alleges an act done by the
collector under color of his office, and seeks a recovery on that
account. Such a suit is removable, and certainly the right to
a removal is not taken away because the collector says in his
defence that the act charged was not in fact done. If done by
him it was done under color of his office. The thing to be
tried is whether it was done.
We agree entirely with the court below in the view it took
of the character of the suit which has been brought. It is not
for damages for delivering the goods without notice to the
carrier, but for the charges collected on the delivery. That is
the case made, both by the petition and upon the trial. The
whole eff6rt on the part of the company, so far as the record
discloses, was to show that it was, and had been for years, the
general usage in Cincinnati for consignees to pay the carrier's
charges upon dutiable goods carried, and held in the custom
house for the payment of duties, to the cashier deputy of the
collector, and that such payments were exacted and required
by the deputy as a condition precedent to the delivery, he accounting to the carriers for the money received on this account.
The claha was that these payments had been made pursuant

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

to this custom, and that the collector was bound by the acts of
the deputy, and liable for his defaults. If the suit had been to
recover damages for the delivery without notice, this proof
might perhaps have come from the other side to show that the
carriers had, by long usage, made the deputy their agent to collect their charges, and that, as the payment had in this case been
made to the deputy in accordance with that custom, no notice
was required. We are clear, therefore, that. the whole case
turns upon the question whether the collector is liable for these
collections of the deputy.
Section 2030 of the Revised Statutes gives authority to every
collector of customs to employ, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, "such number of persons as deputy
collectors as he shall deem necessary, and such deputies are
declared to be officers of the customs." There can be no doubt
that the collector is answerable for all the acts of his deputies
in the performance of their official duties under him. The real
question here is, therefore, whether the collection of the carrier's charges was a part of the official duty of the collector.
If it was, the collection by the deputy was an official act, and
the principal officer is liable accordingly.
What, then, was the duty of the collector under this statute?
Clearly, to take the goods from the carrier when brought, and
not to deliver them to the cousignees without first giving seasonable notice to the person or persons who had notified him
in writing of the existence of a lien in their favor thereon for
freight. The statute neither made it his duty to collect the
freight nor authorized him to receive it for Ole len-holder.
Payment to him would not have been a paym.t' o. thc -. arrier, so as to discharge the consignee from liability for the
freight, unless the carrier had made him his personal agent for
that purpose, in which case he would receive the money not as
collector, but in his private capacity a's the representative of the
person to whom the mony was due. The .money in his hands
on this account would not be in any sense public moneys, for
which he was officially liable to the government, but private
moneys, collected in a private capacity, for which he was
accountable only tO the person from whom he received his

CLEVELAND, COLUMBUS, &c., R'D v. McCLUiNG.

463

Opiuion of the Court.

authority. So, too, if he had received the freight without
authority, and the carrier had sued him for it, he would be
liable because the carrier, by suing, would have ratified his act
and accepted his agency in the premises. But his liability
in that case would not be official as collector, but private as
the agent of the carrier.
It follows that the payment of the freight to the deputy
was not in law a payment to McClung, unless the deputy, in
making the collection, was acting under authority from him,
not, in his official, but in his private capacity. For this purpose it is not sufficient that Wartman, to whom the payments
were made, was the official deputy of McClung as collector.
It must appear that he was his private agent in this behalf.
Thait question was fairly submitted to the jury under proper
instructions, and the verdict was against the company, and to
the effect that McClung had not authorized Wartman to receive the freight moneys on his account. That concludes this
point.
As the alleged exactions of the deputy were not within the
scope, either actual or apparent, under the law, of the authority of the collector's office, the case is not within the principle
which, under some circumstances, makes the officer liable for
the illegal and wrongful acts of his deputy, of which Ogden v.
J£aJxwelU,3 Blatchford, 319, and iielntyre v. Tr'umbY.lU, 7 Johns.
35, cited in the brief of counsel for the company, are examples.
And, besides, here the exactions, if any, were not from the
company, but from the consignees, who alone can: complain.
If they were made without the authority of the company to
whom the freight belonged, the company is under no obligation to accept the payment thus exacted in discharge of its
debt for the freight, and may still proceed against the consignees for its recovery.
If this were a suit for delivering the goods without notice
to the company, a different rule would apply. As it was the
duty of the collector, as collector, to notify the company
before delivery, and not to deliver until proof to his satisfaction had been produced that the freight had been paid or
secured, it would have been a breach of official duty for the

