JNEWHALL v. LE BRETON.
Statement of Facts.

Mm. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE announced that the judgment of
the courf below was

4dfflr'med by a Divided Court.

NEWHALL v. LE BRETON.
APPEAL

FROI THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued November 2, 1886.-Decided November 29, 1886.

The evidence in this case, If admissible, establishes as a fact that the defendant was entitled to reimburse himself in full out of the trust estate
before satisfying the demand of the plainti.

This action was commenced in the Superior Court of the
State of California for the city and county of San Francisco,
and removed thence to the Circuit Court of the United States.
The material allegations in the complaint were the following:
"The plaintiff complains 6f the defendants and shows that
on or about the first day of October, A.D. 1870, Juana M. Estudillo, Jos6 Ramon Estudillo, Jos6 Antonio Estudillo, Jos6 Vicente Estudillo, Luis D. Estudillo, Jesus Maria Estudillo, Magdalena E. Nugent, and John Nugent were indebted to the
defendant, Le Roy, in -the sum of three hundred and ninety
seven thousand eight hundred and forty nine dollars ($397,849.00), and the said parties were indebted to W. I=.Pattemon
in the sum of thirteen thousand dollars ($13,000.00), and to
S. M. Wilson and A. P. Crittenden in the sum of thirteen
thousand dollars ($13,000), and to John B. Felton in the
sum of twenty three thousand dollars ($23,000.00), making in
all the sum of forty nine thousand dollars ($49,000.00), and the
said forty nine thousand dollars added to the said sum due the
defendant, Le Roy. made the sum of four hundred and forty six
thousand eight hundred and forty nine dollars (8446,849.00),
gold'coin of the United Scates. and the said Estudillos and Nugents agreed on said day to give to *defendant, Le Roy, a deed

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
-

Statement of Facts.

for certain tracts or parcels of land and other property, and to
pay to the parties to whom they were indebted the said sums,
with interest thereon at one and a quarter per cent. per month
until paid, and to give a deed of trust for certain property to
secure the payment thereof to the defendant, Le Roy;
and the
plaintiff further shows that, in conformity with said agreement, the said parties did execute and deliver to the defendant,
Theodore Le Roy, a deed, as follows."
The deed, after reciting that the party of the first part was
indebted to the party of the second part in the sum of $446,849,
and after granting and conveying the described tracts, provided
for several trusts, among which were the following:
"Third. -To sell the same or any parts. or parcels thereof for
cash or for part cash and on credit at public or private sale,
with or without notice to the said parties of the first part, it.
being understood that said Le Roy may sell, discount, and dispose of all or any notes, mortgages, or securities taken for
deferred payments, at his discretion ; also to lease the same in
parcels or as a whole.
"Fourth. To pay off the said indebtedness hereinabove specified, with the interest thereon, and all sums which may hereafter be advanced by the said party of the second part to the
said parties of the first part, or any or either of them, or at the
request of any or either of them; also all taxes, liens, or other
incumbrances, costs of lawsuits, and counsel fees, and other
expenses of litigation spent in and about the protection of the
title of the said property, it being understood that all advances
made by the said party of the second part to the said parties
of the first part, or any or either of them, shall bear interest
from the date of the advance at the rate of one and ona quarter per cent. per month.
"Fifth.
To retain as commissions two and one half per
cent. of the gross amounts of all sales made by the said party
of the second part."
"Eighth. The said party of the second part shall receive
commissions on-all sales at the rate of two and one half per
centum on the dollar,- such commissions, however, not to be
deducted or charged unt.l all payinents above mentioned are
made."

NEWHALL v. LE BRETON.
Statement of Facts.

The complaint then alleged that the amounts due Patterson,
Wilson, Crittenden, and Felton were included in the $46,819;
that Le Roy by accepting the deed became a trustee for them;
that defendant entered into possession of the property; that
judgment h~ad been rendered for a sale of the trust estate to
satisfy the trust debts; that the property had been sold and a
part of it purchased by defendant ; that Patteil.on, Wilson, and
Crittenden had assigned their interests to plaintiff; that plaintiff
had demanded of defendant an account and settlement, and a
conveyance of a portion of the property, or a payment, of
the amount due him;, and that defendant had refused to convey
tb him or to recognize his rights. The prayer of the bill was
"that the defendant may be compelled to 'account for all sums
received under the said deed of trust, and that he may be
decreed to hold all land purchased by him in trust for the
plaintiff, and that he be decreed to convey to plaintiff his just
proportion thereof, and for such other and further relief as may
be necessary, and costs of suit."
The answer admitted the execution and delivery of the deed;
denied that any amount due Patterson, Wilson, CrittendeA, and
Felton,, or either of them, was included in the $446,849;
denied that defendant was a trustee for either of them ; denied
entry into any except a portion of the property, and averred
that the rest wag held adversely; admitted suit, judgment, and
sale, and that defendant had become a purchaser of a portion,
but not of all the tracts alleged in complaint; denied knowledge of the assignnents to plaintiff; admitted defihand for account and refusal, and then made the following averment:
"When the trust deed was drawn, the said sum of forty nine,
thousand dollars was included in the sum secured by said trust
deed, which -was to be paid only after this defendant should
be reimbursed the whole amount due and to become due him
for 'the principal then due at the date of the trust deed, with
the interest thereon and all subsequent advances and expenses
with the interest thereon, and the said. forty nine thousand
dollars was not agreed by any one to be paid in any other way
or in"any other event, and it was be6ause of this arrangement
that while it was provided in the said trust deed, in the fifth

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts,

article thereof, that, this defendant should be entitled 'to retaini as commission two and one half per cent. on the gross
amount of all sales made by the said party of the second part'
(this defendant), it was provided in the eighth article that the
said commissions should not be deducted or charged until all
payments above mentioned are made, it being intended thereby
to provide that the said forty nine thousand dollars and interest should be paid after the amount due to this defendant
for principal, advances, expenses, and interest mereon were
paid, and before any commissions were paid to him. 'And
afterwards, on or about the 27th day of September, 1871, the
said John B. Felton brought to this defendant the draft of a
letter which he desired to have written, addressed and signed
by him in duplicate, one whereof was to be delivered and the
other to be retained by this defenlant, with a statement under-iritten, signed by said Felton, certifying to its correctness.
And this defendant had the said letter written -in duplicate
and addressed to the said J. B. Felton, S. M. Wilson, and
W. H. Patterson, and signed by this defendant, and delivered
the same to said John B. Felton, and one of them he retained,
and to the other of them he, in his own hand, added a statement of its correctness, dated and signed by him and returned
to this defendant; and which he has ever since retained as the
evidence of the agreement existing in respect to said forty nine
thousand dollars, and is in the words and figures following:
' SAN FR.Ncisco, September 27th, 1871.,
',To Messrs. J. B. Felton, S. M. Wilson, and W. H. Patterson.
' GENTLEmEN: I, hereby certify that you are entitled to the
'following sums payable out of a certain deed of trust made to
me the first day of October, A.1). 1870, by Juana M. Estudillo,
Jos6 Ramon Estudillo, Jos6 Antonio, Estudillo, Jos6 Vicente
Estudillo, Luis D. Estudillo, Jesus Maria Estudillo, Magdalena
E. Nugent, and John Nugent - that is to say:
'J. B. Felton, Esq., to the sum of twenty five thousand
dollars; S. M1. Wilson, Esq., to the sum of twelve thousand
dollars; W. H. Patterson, Esq., to the sum of twelve thousand dollars.

NEWH ALL v. LE BRETON.
Argument for Appellees.

These sums are to be paid, principal and interest, from the
date of said deed as soon as I shall be entirely reimbursed,
principal, interest, advances, and exTenses.
'Respectfully, yours, &c,
LE Roy, Tu.
JoHN B. FELTON.
'September 27th, 1871.'
"This is the true understanding about the above interests, as
will fully appear by the original thereof now in this defendant's
possession ready to be produced as the court shall direct."
The answer then set forth facts tending to show a knowledge of these facts in Patterson and Crittenden; denied that
there had ever been any other trust, and averred that defendant had not been' reimbursed his advances, expenses, &c., but
that a large sum was still due him, and denied that he held
any money or property in trust for plaintiff.
A trial was had, and it was decreed that the bill be dismissed, from which appeal was taken. The defendant below
hhving deceased, the appellee Le Breton was appointed adm~inistrator of his estate, and appeared. The case was argued in this
court both on the law and the facts.
iIL.. tHeny Becrd and lj'. Cakrles f. A'imes, for appellant,
cited: Hidde-n v. Jrdan, 21 Cal. 92; Case v. Codd'zg, 38
Cal. 191; Bayles v. Baxter, 22 Cal. 575; V3llard v. HMatha,
way, 27 Cal. 118; Cuwrey v. Allen, 34: Cal. 254; Jenkins v.
F.ink, 30 Cal. 5B6; Burhans v. Van Zandt, 7 N. Y. 523';
Rottwell v. Dewees, 2 Black, 613; Flagg v. i3Jann, 2 Sumner,
486, 523; -Eeutzv. Livingston, 15 Cal. 344; Gunter v. Jones,
9 Cal. 643; J ing v. Remington, Sup. Ct. M1innesota, 1886, not
yet reported, and cases therein cited.
.LJi. Evans -. Pillsbury, for appellees, cited: _)uttol 'v.
JT?'rscauer, 21 Cal. 609, 623; K'eYtz v. Livingston; 15 Cal.
344; Grattan v. Wiggins, 23 Cal. 16; WTite v. Oar enter,2
Paige, 217, 239; Cvnningharm v. Uaivkins, 27 Cal. 603 ; Troll
v. Carter, 15 West Va. 567; Taylor v. IlicClain, 60 Cal. 651;

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-Yat. Bk v. Ins. Co., 104 U. S. 54; Taylor v. MC7ain, 64 Cal.
513; Zvatchbull v. HYallett, L. R. 13 Ch. Div. 696; Bayles v.
Baaxter, 22 Cal. 575; TFright v. Ross, 36 Cal. 414; lillardv.
H7athaway, 27 Cal. 119; Hoyt v. 111artenqo, 16 N. Y. 231;
Roberts v. Ware, 40 Cal. 634; Twin Liel Oil Co. v. Illarbury,
91 U. S. 587; Bostford v. Bu'r, 2 Johns. Ch. 405; Pylymouth
v. Hieman, 2 Vern. 107; Roe v. Popl)am, Doug. 251; Gibson v. Jeyes, 6 Yes. 266, 270, 280; TWalkei' v. WYalker, 2
Atk. 98 ; Lake v. Zake, Ambler, 126 ; Bellasis v. ConPton, 2
Vern. 294; Howell v. Ransom, 11 Paige, 53S, 540, 542; Page
v. Page, 8 N. I. 187; Jenning. v. M1c ..omnd, 17 Ill. 148;
JTacksonz v. Feller, 2 Wend. 465; Fordv. Han'iigto, 16 N. Y.
285, 289; TFood v. Downes, 18 Yes. 126; Evans v. 7llis, 5
Denio, 640, 643; Jones v. Tripy, Jacob, 322; Oane v. Allen,
2 Dow, 289; 3Iontesquieu&
v. Sancys, 18 Yes. 302; Edward
v. .DHeyriok, 2 Hlare, 60, 68.
AM_. J-fSTiE

H_&RLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The amount secured to be paid by the deed of trust executed on the 1st day of October, 1870, by Juana 31. Estudillo
and others t6 Theodore Le IRoy, was $446,849 in gold coin of
the United States. Whether that sum included the. $49,000
which is alleged to be due to Patterson, Wilson, Crittenden,
and Felton for legal services rendered, cannot be determined
by anything in the deed itself. The plaintiff, who sues as
assignee of the claims of said attorneys, is compelled to resort
to parol evidence to show that the parties to the deed intended
to provide for the payment of the $49,000 out of the proceeds
of the sale of the trust property, and to that end included it
in the aggregate of $446,849. If that evidence was competent, it-was the right of the defendant to show by parol evidence that the intention of the parties was to apply the
proceeds of sale to the reimbursement of Le Roy, for all advances and payments made and expenses incurred by him, before
anything was paid on the claims of the attorneys. Looking
at all the evidence, we are satisfied that these propositions are
sustained, namely: 1. That the $49,000 was embraced in the

