KRAMER v. COHN.
Counsel foV Appellant.

gate and set aside the assignment and to restore to complainanf, his original contract, on account of the fraud and
misrepresentation practised upon him. Having been induced
to pay $15,000 in the transaction, and suffered a large amount
of damages, he adds to the relief sought a prayer to have his'
damages assessed and decreed. . This is the case made by the
bill. I think it is clearly within the scope of equity jurisdiction, both pn account of the fraud, and from the nature of the,'
relief asked by the complainant, namely, the cancellation of
an agreement, and the reinstatement of a contract which he
had been fraudulently inanced to. cancel. If the bill had
prayed nothing else, it seems to me clear that it would have
presented a case for equity. A court of law could not give
adequate relief. The existence of the assignment :and the cancellation of the first agreement would embarrass the plaintiff
in an action at law. It is different from the case of a lost
note or bond. Fraud is -charged, and documents exist which
in equity ought not to exist. I think the complainant is entitled to have the fraudulent transaction wiped out, and to be
restored to his original status.

KRAMER v. COHN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT CORT OF THE UITEO STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted Iovember 12, 1886. -Decided

December 13, 15S5.

A bill in equity by an assignee in bankruptcy aogainst the bankrupt and another person, alleging that the bankrupt, with intent to defraud his creditors, concealed and sold his propeTty, and that he invested the proceeds'
in a business carried on by him in the name of the other defendant,
should, upon a failure to prove the latter allegation, be dismissed, without prejudice to an action at law against the bankrupt.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. 3lorris A. Cohn for appellant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the*Court.

.Mr. A. ff. Sandels (Mr. JT H. (lendening was with him)
for appellees.

Mni.

JuSTicE

GrnA- delivered the opinion of the court.

This bill in equity was filed by the assignee in bankruptcy
of Isaac Cohn, against him and Mark S. Cohn, 6lleging that
Isaac Cohn, before the adjudication of bankruptcy, and with
intent to defraud his creditors, concealed his property and sold
it for a large sum of money, and; after obtaining his discharge
in bankruptcy, invested that money in a stock of goods, with
which he had since carried on business in the name of the
other defendant; that this stock in fact consisted of the property so kept back from his 6reditors, with the increase thereof,
and that the other defendant had little, if any, interest therein;
and praying for an answer, an injunction, a receiver, an account, and, upon failure to answer and account, for a decree
vesting in the plaintiff the title in the stock, and for further
relief.
The defendants answered separately upon oath, denying
these allegations, and alleging that the business was carried
on by Isaac Cohn as clerk of the other -defendant, and was
wholly owned by the latter.
At the hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the court was of
opinion that the plaintiff was entitled to recover against Isaac
Cohn, for money and assets fraudulently withheld by him from
his assignee in bankruptcy, the sum of $6500, but that the
plaintiff had failed to connect the other defendant with the
fraudulent withholding of assets; and therefore entered a decree against Isaac Cohn for that sum and costs, but as to the
other defendant dismissed the bill with costs.
The plaintiff and Isaac Cohn each filed a petition for a rehearing. The plaintiff's petition was denied. But upon the
petition of Isaac Cohn it was ordered that as to him, "it appearing to the court that it is without jurisdiction in this case,"
the former decree be set aside and the bill be dismissed with
costs and without prejudice. The plaintiff appealed to this
court.

