VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILR'D v. O'BRIEN.

99

Statement of Facts.

been was satisfactorily explained before the discharge was
granted. The certificate is conclusive on this question.
As these are the only Federal questions presented, and
one has been already settled by our decision in Henenequin
v. Ckws, and the other needs no further argument, the motion to affirm is granted.

Aflrmed.

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILROAD v. O'BRIEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued April 19, 20,1886. -Decided

November 1, 1886.

In an action against a railroad company by a passenger to recover for injuries received by an accident to a train, a written statement as to the
nature and extent of his injuries, made by his physician while treating
him for them, for the purpose of giving information to others in
regard to them, is not admissible in evidence against the company, even
when attached to a deposition of the physician in which he swears that
it was written by him, and that in his opinion it correctly states the condition of the patient at the time referred to.
The declaration of the engineer of the locomotive of a train which meets
with an accident, as to the speed at which the train was running when
the accident happened, made between ten and thirty minutes after the
accident occurred, is not admissible in evidence against the company in
an action by a passenger on the train to recover damages for injuries
caused by the accident.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
)h'. .Edgar 3. Johnson, (with whom were Jfr. George

H7oadly and Mrk. Edwarc Coleto on the brief,) for plaintiff
in error, cited: Pvsseli v. Hudsorn River Railroad, 17 N.
Y 134; _L6uy v. THdsom River Railroad, 17 N. Y. 131;
_Jfileigan Central Railroad v. Gougar, 55 Ill. 503'; _forse v.
Ca2ecticut River,Railroad,6 Gray, 450; Lane v. Bryant, 9
Gray, 245; S. C. 69 Am. Dec. 282; Curl v. Chicago & Rock
Asland Railroad,11 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 85; Dietrichv.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Baltimore &. 'Railroad, 58 Maryland, 3k7; Turst v. Second
Avenue Railroad, 72 N. Y. 542; Bellefontaine Railroad v.
Hunter, 33 Ind. 335; Sims v. .3lacon,& Western Railroad,
28 Georgia, 94; Enos v. Tuttle, 3 Conn. 247; Fller v. 2augatuck Railroad, 21 Conn. 557; Baltimore City Railway Co.
v. Kemp, 61 Maryland, 74.
HJfr. William Hgugent also fied a brief for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Thomas C. Oatchings for defendants in error, cited as
to the points decided by the court: Comnmonwealth v. eToPike,
3 Cush. 181; S. C. 50 Am. Dec. 727; Enos v. Tuttle, 3 Conn.
247.
Mkir. JuSTicE H-AmLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action .was brought by Mary E. O'Brien and her husband, John J. O'Brien, to recover damages sustained in consequence of personal injuries received by the wife in September,
1881, while a passenger upon the Yicksburg and Meridian
Railroad. The declaration alleges that the company "so carelessly, negligently, and unskilfully constructed and maintained
its railroad track, engine, and cars,. and so carelessly, negligently, and unskilfully conducted itself in the management,
control, and running of the same," that the car in which Mrs.
O'Brien, was seated as a passenger was thrown from the railroad track and overturned, whereby she was seriously injured.
There was a verdict and judgment for $9000 in favor of the
plaintiffs.
1. At the trial the plaintiffs offered to read to the jury the
deposition of a physician, and did read the first, second, and
third interrogatories propounded to him, and the answers
thereto. Responding to the first and second interrogatories,
he stated, among other things, that his attendance upon Mrs.
O'Brien commenced on the 16th of September, 1881; that he
found her suffering extreme pain and in a very nervous condition, resulting a few hours before from a railroad accident on
defendant's road; that such was the cause of her injuries

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILR'D v. O'BRIENL. 101
Opinion of the Court.

he knew from her own answers, from the statement of her
brother-in-law, and from attending others who were on the
train with her. The third interrogatory and answer were as
follows:
"3. Look on the accompanying statement, dated November
26th, 1881, and state if it was written by you at the date it
bears, for what purpose it was written, and to whom it was
delivered. Does the statement represent substantially and
correctly Mrrs. O'Brien's condition as it appeared when you
first saw her, and as it continued up to November.26th, 1881?
"Answer: I have looked upon the statement referred to,
which was written by myself, at Mr. O'Brien's request, at" the
(late mentioned, when he was about to take his wife away
from here to his home in New Orleans, and was- intended to
convey an idea of how she was when.I was called to see her,
and what her condition was when she left my charge; and in
my opinion I correctly stated her condition at the times referred to."
The written statement referred to in the interrogatory was
signed by the witness, and attached to his deposition as an exhibit. It was addressed to Ar. O'Brien, and sets forth, with
much detail, the nature of the injuries received by the wife,
and their effect upon her bodily and mental condition. It also
embodied an expression of the witness' opinion as to the probable length of time within which she might recover from her
injuries. The plaintiff, before reading the remaining interrogatories and answers, offered to read this statement to the jury
as evidence. The company objected, upon these grounds:
That it was not made by the witness under oath, and in defendant's presence, or with its knowledge and consent; that it
was hearsay evidence, and, therefore, wholly incompetent; and
that, in any event, it could only be referred to by The witness
to refresh his recollection. The court overruled the objection
and permitted the statement to be read in evidence, the defendant taldng an exception thereto, which was allowed. The
remainder of the deposition was then read to the jury.
Me are of opinion that this ruling cannot be sustained upon
any principle recognized in the law of evidence. The authori-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ties are uniform in holding that a witness is at liberty to
examine a memorandum prepared by him, under the circumstances in which this one was, for the purpose of refreshing or
assisting his recollection as to the facts stated in it.
But there are adjudged cases which declare that, unless prepared in the discharge of some public duty, or of some duty
arising out of the business relations of the witness with others,
or in the regular course of his own business, or with the
knowledge and concurrence of the .party to be charged, and
for the purpose of charging him, such a memorandum cannot,
under any circumstances, be admitted as an instrument of evidence.' There are, however, other cases to the effect, that,where the witness states, under oath, that the memorandum
was made by him presently after the transaction to which it
relates, for the purpose of perpetuating his recollection of the
facts, and that he knows it was correct when prepared, although after reading it he cannot recall the ciroumstances so
as to state them alone from memory, the paper may be
received as the best evidence of which the case admits.2
The present case does not require us to enter upon an examination of the numerous authorities upon this general subject ;
for, it does not appear here, but that at the time the witness
testified he had, without even looking at his written statement, a clear, distinct recollection of every essential fact stated
in it. If he had such present recollection, there was no necessity whatever for reading that paper to the jury. Applying,
then, to the case the most liberal rule announced in any of the
authorities, the ruling by which the plaintiffs were allowed to
read the physician's written statement to the jury as evidence,
in: itself, :of the facts therein recited, was erroneous.
1 Note by the Court. Lightner v. Wfke, 4 S. & R. 203; Calvert v. Fitzgerald, Litt. Sel. Cases, 388; Lazorence v. Barker, 5 Wend. 305; Redden v.
Si'reance,4 Harrington (Del.), 265, 267-8; Field v. Thompson, 119 Mass. 151.
2 Note by the Court. Russell v. Hludson River Railroad, 17 N. Y. 134,
140; Guy v..lead, 22 N. Y. 465; Merrill v. Ithaca & Oswego Railroad, 16
Wend. 586; S. C. 30 Am. Dec. 130; Kelsea v. Fletcher,48 N. H. 282; Mlaven v.
Wendell, 11 N. H. 112; Xfms v. Sturdevant, 36 Ala. 636, 640; State v. Rawle,
2 Nott & McCord, 331, 334.

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILRD v. O'BRIEN. 103
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, claimed, in behalf of the plaintiffs, that in
his answers to other interrogatories the physician testified,
apart from the certificate, to the material facts embodied in
it, and that, therefore, the reading of it to the jury could not
have prejudiced the rights of the defendant, and, for that reson, should not be a ground of reversal.
We are unable to shy that the defendant was not injuriously
affected by the reading of the physician's certificate in evidence. It is not easy to determine what weight was given to
it by the jury. In estimating the damages to be awarded in
view of the extent and character of the injuries received, the
jury, for augbt tbitt the court can know, may have been
largely controlled by its statements. The practice of admitting
in evidence the nnsworn statements of witnesses, prepared, in
advance of trial, at the request of one party, and without the
knowledge of the other party, should not be encouraged by
further departures from the established rules of evidence.
While this court will not disturb a judgment for an error
that did not operate to the substantial injury of the party
against whom it was committed, it is well settled that a reversal will be directed unless it" appears, beyond doubt, that the
error complained of did not and could not have. prejudiced the
rights of the party. &?iths v. Szoemaker, 17 Wall. 630, 639;
Dee 'M v. 0,ay, 5- Wall 795; .Xoo'e&v. .Yat. Bank, 104 U. S.
(25, 630; Gilmaa v. Hlg~y, 110 U. S. 47, 50.
2. At the trial below, plaintiffs introduced one Roach as a
witness, who, during his examination, was asked whether he
(lid not, shortly after the accident, have a conversation with
the engineer having charge of defendant's train at the time of
the accident, about the rate of speed at which the train was
moving at the time. To that question the defendant objected,
but its objt?9n was overruled, and the witness permitted to
answer. The witness had previously stated that, on examination of the track after the accident, he. found a cross-tie or
cross-ties under the broken rail in a decayed condition. His
answer to the above question was: "Between ten and thirty
minutes after the accident occurred, I had such a conversation

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

with Morgan Herbert, the engineer having charge of the locomotive attached to the train at the time of the accident., and

he told me that the train was moving at the rate of eighteen
miles an hour." The defendant renewed its objection to this
testimony by a motion to exclude it from the jury. This
motion was denied, and an exception taken. As bearing upon
the point here raised it may be stated that, under the evidence, it became material- apart from the issue as to the
condition of the track-to inquire, whether, at the time of
the accident, (which occurred at a place on the line where the
rails in the track were, according to some of the proof, materially defective,) the train was being run aa speed exceeding
fifteen miles an hour. In this view, the declaration of the
engineer may have had a decisive influence upon the result of
the trial.
There can be no dispute as to the general rules governing
the admissibility of the declarations of an agent to affect the
principal. The acts of an agent, within the scope of the authority delegated to him, are deemed the acts of the principal.
fWhatever he does in the lawful exercise of that authority is
imputable to the principal, and may be proven without calling
the agent as a witness. So, in consequence of the relation
between him and the principal, his statement or declaration is,
under some circumstances, regarded as of the nature of original evidence, "being," says Phillips, "the ultimate fact to be
proved, and not an admission of some other fact." 1 Phil. Ev.
381. "But it must be remembered," says Greenleaf, "that
the admission of the. agent cannot always be assimilated to the
admission of the principal. The party's own adnission, whenever made, may be given in evidence against him; but the
admission or declaration of his agent binds him only when it
is made during the continuance of the agency in regard to a
transaction then depending, et dum feirvet op as. It is because
itis a verbal act and part of the res yestwe that it is admissible
at all; and, therefore, it is not necessary to call the agent, to
prove it; but wherever what he did is admissible in evidence,
there it is competent to prove what he said about the act whle
he was doing t" 1 Greenleaf, ยง 113. This court had occasion

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILP'D v. O'BRIEN. 105
Opinion of the Court.

in Packet Co. v. Clough, 20 Wall. 540, to consider this question.
Referring to the rule as stated by Mr. Justice Story in his
Treatise on Agency ยง 134, that "where the acts of the agent
will bind the principal, there his representations, declarations,
and admissions respecting the subject-matter will also bind him,
f made at the some time, and eonsttutiygpwlt of the res getle,"
the court, speaking by .Mr. Justice Strong, said: "A close attention to this rule, which is of universal acceptance, will solve
almost every difficulty. But an act done by an agent cannot
be varied, qualified, or explained, either by his declarations,
which amount to no more than a mere narrative of a past occurrence, or by an isolated conversation held, c r an isolated
act done, at a later period. The reason is that the agent to
do the gct is not authorized to narrate what he had done, or
how he had done it, and his declaration is no part of the res
gestw."
We are of opinion that the declaration of the engineer Herbert to the witness Roach was not competent against the defendant for the purpose of proving the rate of speed at which
the train was moving at the time of the accident. It is true
that, in view of the engineer's experience and position, his
statements under oath, as a witness, in respect to that matter,
if credited, would have influence with the jury. Although the
speed of the train was, in some degree, subject to his control.
still his authority, in that respect, did not carry with it authority to make declarations or admissions at a subsequent
time, as to the manner in which, on an:r particulai trip, or at
any designated point in his route, he had performed his duty.
iHis declaration, after the accident had become a completed
fact, and when he was not performing the duties of engineer,
that the train, at the moment the plaintiff was injured, was
being run at the rate of eighteen miles an hour, was not explanatory of anything in which he was then engaged. It did
not accompany the act from which the injuries in question
arose. It was, in its essence, the mere narration of a past occurrence, not a part of the res gesta - simply an assertion or
representation, in the course of conversation, as to a matter
not then pending, and in respect to which his authority as

106 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.'

engineer had been fully exerted. ' It is not to be deemed part
of the 'res gestce, simply because of the brief period intervening
between the accident and the making of the declaration. The
fact remains that the occurrence had ended when the declaration in question was made, and the engineer was not in the
act of doing anything that could possibly affect it. If his
declaration had been made the next day after the accident,' it
would scarcely be claimed that it was admissible evidence
against the company. And yet the circumstance that it was
made between ten and thirty minutes -an appreciable period
of time -after the accident, cannot, upon principle, make this
case an exception to the general rule. If the contrary view
-should be maintained, it would follow that the declarations of
the engineer, if favorable to the company, would have been
admissible in its behalf as part of the 'es gest(v, without calling
him as a witness - a proposition that will find no support in
the law of evidence. The cases have gone far enough in the
admission of the subsequent, declaiations of agents as evidence
against their principals. These views dre fully sustained by
adjudications in the highest courts of the States.'
We deem it unnecessary to notice other exceptions taken to
'the action of the court below.
This case was decided at the last term of this court, and MJr.
Justice Woods- concurred in the order of reversal upon the
grounds herein stated.
For the errors indicated the judgment is
-Reversed,and the cause e'emanded for a new trial, and for
furter proceedings consistent with, thi. opinior.
Note by the Court. Luby v. Hudson Ricer Railroad,17 N. Y. 131; -Pennsylvduia Railroadv. Brooks, 57 Penn. St. 339, 343; Dieteick v. Baltimore &c.
Railroad,58 'Maryland, 347, 355; Lane v. Brijant, 9 Gray, 245; S. C. 69 Am.
Dec. 282; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Riddle, G0Ill. 534; Virginia &
Tennessee Railboad v. Sayers, 26 Gratt. 328, 351; Chicago & . TV. Railroad
v. Fillmore, 57 Ii. 265; Michigan Central Railroadv. Colemnan, 28 Mich. 440,
446; Mlobile & Jioutgornery Railroadv. Jslcraft, 48 Ala. 15, 30; Belhfontaine
Railway v. Hunter, 33 Ind. 335, 354; Adans v. Hannibal& S. J. Bailroad,
74 Missouri, 553, 556; S. C. Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 416 and note; Kansas
& Pacific Railroad v. Pointer, 9 Kansas, 620, 630; Roberts v. Burks, Litt.
(Ky.) Select Cas. 411; S. C. 12 Am. Dec. 325; Rawker v. Baltimore & Ohi
Railroad, 15 West Va. 628, 636. See also 1 Taylor. Ev., 7th Eng. Ed., ยง 602

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILR'D v. O'BRIEN. 107
Dissentipg Opinion: Waite, .C.J., Miller, Field, Blatchford, JJ.
X&I. JUSTICE

ME.

FELD, with whom concurred THE CHIEF .IUSTICE,
and MR. JUSTIcE. BLs0oHForD, dissenting.

JuSTIE MILLFE,

I am not able to give my assent to the judgment of the
court in this case.
The statement by the physician as to the condition of the
injured party, the admission of which is held to have been
error, was proved by his deposition to have been correct.
Every material fact also which it contained was established
by his independent testimony. It would not be in accordance
with the usual action of men, in the ordinary concerns of life,
to reject as incompetent evidence, a written statement thus
made by a physician as to the condition of a patient under his
charge, when it is subsequently proved by him to be true in
all its details. And it should seem, that evidence upon which'
every one would act without hesitation in the common affairs
of life, ought not to be excluded from co'nsideration, except for
clear reasons of policy, or long established rules to the contrary, when those affairs are brought into litigation before the
courts.
If the recollection of the condition of the patient had passed
from the mind .of the physician, and he could still have testified that the statement made by him when the patient was
under his charge was true, it would have been admissible. It
is difficult, therefore, to find any just reason for excluding it,
from the fact that, in corroboration of its truth, the physician
also testified to the facts therein stated.
The admission of the declaration of the engineer, as to the
rate of speed of the train at the time of the accident, was, in
my judgment, admissible as part of the r'es gestw. The rails
and cross-ties of the road were in a bad condition. Some of
the rails had been used for over forty years, and some of the
cross-ties were decayed, and it appears that the accident was
caused by a decayed cross-tie and a broken rail.
As the declaration was made between ten and thirty minutes
after the accident, we may well conclude that it was made in
sight of the wrecked train, and in presence of the injured
parties, and whilst surrounded by excited passengers. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller Field, Blatchford, JJ.

engineer was the only person from whom the company could

have learned of the exact speed of the train at the time; to
him it would have been obliged to apply for information on
that point. It would seem, therefore, that his declaration, as
that of its agent or servant, should have been received. The
modern doctrine has relaxed the ancient rule, that declarations,
to be admiissible as part of the res gestce, must be strictly contemporaneous with the main transaction. It now allows evidence of them, when they appear to have been made under
the immediate influence of the principal transaction, and are
so connected with it as to characterize or explain it.
The case of the flanover Rah'oaid Con2pany v. Coyle, 55
Penn. St. 396, 402, is in point. There it appeared that a peddler's wagon was struck by a locomotive and the peddler was
injured; and the question was as to the admissibility of the
declaration of the engineer that the train was behind time, to
show carelessness and negligence. The Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania held it admissible. "We cannot say," said the
court, "that the declaration of the engineer was no part of
the res getce. It was made at the time, in view of the goods
strewn along the road by the breakihg up of the boxes, and
seems to have grown directly out of and immediately after
the happening of the fact. The negligence complained of
being that of the engineer. himself, we cannot say that his
declaration~s, made upon the spot, at the time, and in view of
the effects of his conduct, are not evidence against the company'as a part of the very transaction itself."
What time may elapse between the happening of the event
in respect to which the declaration isanade, and the time of the
declaration, and yet the-declaration be adnissible, must depend
upon the chars cter of the transaction itself. An accident happening to-a -railway train, by which a car is wre&ked, would
naturally lead to a.great deal of excitement among the passengers on the train, and the character and cause of the accident
would be th -subject of explanation for a considerable time
afterwards, by persofis connected with the train. The admissibility of a declardtion; in connection with evidence of the
principal fact, as stated by Greenleaf, must be determined by

VICKSBURG & MERIDIAN RAILR'D-v. O'BRIEN. 109
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller, Field, Blatchford, JJ.

the judge according to the degree of its relation to that fact,
and in the exercise of a sound discretion; it being extremely
-'Efficult, if not impossible, to bring this class of cases within,
the limits of a more particular description. The principal
points of attention are, he adds, whether the declaration was
contemporaneous with the main fact, and so connected with it
as to illustrate its character.
But, independently of this consideration, there is another answer to the objection taken .1o the admissibility of the declaration of the engineer. It was immateial in any view of the
case. The engagement of a railroad company is to carry its
passengers safely; and, f6r any injury arising from a defect
in its road, or in therails or ties, which could have been guarded
against by the exercise of proper care, it is liable. Its liability
does not depend upon the speed of the train, whether it was
one mile or eighteen miles" an hour. Though as a carrier of
passengers it is not, like a carrier of property, an insurer against
all accidents except those caused by the act of God or the public enemy, it is charged with the utmost care and skill in the
performance of its duty; and this implies not merely the utmost attention in respect to the movement of the cars, but also
to the condition of the road, and of its ties, rails, and all other
appliances essential to the safety of the train and passengers.
For all injuries through negligence, to which the passenger does
not contribute by his own acts, it is liable. So it matters not
what the speed of the train was in the case at bar, nor what
was the declaration of the engineer in that respee.
I am authorized to state that the Chief Justice, Mr. Justice
Miller, and Mfr. Justice Blatchford concur in this dissent.

