OCTOBER TERM., 1886.
Statement of Facts.

SCHMIDT v. COBB.
APPEAL FROMi THE OiRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERX DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted October 12, 1886.-Decided October 25, 1SS0.

A commenced a proceeding in equity in a District Court of Iowa against B
for violating the provisions of §§ 1540, 1542 of the Code of that State
respecting the sale of intoxicating liquors, and the owning and keeping
such liquors with intent to sell the same. B filed his petition, alleging
that by these proceedings and by the construction given to the statute by
the Supreme Court of Iowa in another case, he was deprived of his rights
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and praying for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States; and
it was so removed. In that court A filed an amended complaint, and B
filed an amended petition for removal; each by leave of court. A moved
that the cause be remanded to the State Court. The Circuit Court
remanded t, from which order B appealed. This court affirms the
decree of the court below by a divided court.

This was a process styled "a petition in equity," commenced by appellee September 4, 1884, in the'District
Court of Dubuque County, Iowa., under § 1543 of the Amended
Code of Iowa, to recover a fine from appellants for violations of the provisions of §§ 1540 and 1542 of that Code.
These sections are as follows:

"SEc. 1540. If any person not holding such permit [a permit to buy and sell intoxicating liquors for the purposes named
in § 1527] by himself, his clerk, servant, or agent shall directly
or indirectly or by any device, sell or in consideration of the
purchase of any other property, give to any person any intoxicating liquors, he shall for 'the first offence be deemed guilty.
of a misdemeanor," &c.
"SEC. 1542. No person shall own or keep, or be in any way
concerned, engagdd or employed in owning or keeping any
intoxicating liquors, with intent to sell the same within this
state, or to permit the same to be sold therein in violation of
the provisions hereof; and any person who shall so own or

SCHMIDT v. 'COBB.
Statement of Facts.

keep, or be concerned, engaged, or employed in owning or
keeping such liquors with any such intent shall be deemed
for the first offence guilty of a misdemeanor," &c. The
guilty person is then subjected to accumulating penalties, until
they reach $300, and six months in the county jail.
"SEc. 1543. In cases of violation of the provisions of either of
the three preceding sections, or of section fifteen hundred and
twenty-five of this chapter, the building or erection of whatever kind, or the ground itself, in or upon which such unlawful manufacture or sale, or keeping, with intent to sell, use or
give away, of any intoxicating liquor, is carried on, or continued, or exists, and the furniture, fixtures, vessels and contents,
is hereby declared a nuisance, and shall be -abated as hereinafter provided. And whoever shall erect or establish, or continue or use any building, erection or place, for any 6f the
purposes prohibited in said sections, shall be deemed guilty of
a nuisance and may be prosecuted and punished accordingly,
'and upon conviction shall pay a fine of not exceeding $1000
and costs of prosecution and stand committed until the fine,
and costs are paid, and the provisions of c. 47, title 25,
of this code, shall not be applicable to persons committed
under this section. Any citizen of the county, ivhere such
nuisance exists, or is kept or maintained, may maintain' an
action in equity to abate and perpetually enjoin. the same, and
any person violating the terms of any injunction granted in
such proceedings, shall be punished as for contempt, by a fine
of not less than five hundred nor more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than six
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."
The petition in equity was as follows, being entitled as of
September Term, 1884:
The plaintiff, agent of the Citizens' Law and Order League
of Dubuque, complaining, shows to the court and avers as
follows:
Par. 1st. That he is a citizen of Dubuque County, State of
Iowa.
Par. 2d. That defendants, Schmidt Brothers, a firm com-

OCTOBER TERAT,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

posed of Albeit Schmidt and Titus Sclnnidt, at the city and
county of Dubuque, at the Iowa Brewery so called, situated
upon Couler Avenue, in said city, and upon lot number 5 in
Brewery addition, as Platted and recorded with Dubuque
deeds, have established a saloon and place for the keeping and
sale of intoxicating liquors, to wit, whiskey, wine, gin, and
beer, in violation of law, and are now keeping, and employed
and engaged in keeping, said intoxicating liquors in said saloon
and place with the intent to sell the same, and with the intent
to permit the same to be sold therein, tontrary to the provisions of § 1542 of the Code of Iowa as amended and substituted by an act of the General Assembly of the State of
Iowa, approved April 3d, 1884.
Par. 3d. That in the month of August, 1884, the said defendants, in the saloon and place aforesaid, did, by themselves,
their clerk, agent, and, servant, sell to divers and sundry persons intoxicating liquors, to wit, whiskey, wine, gin, and beer,
contrary to the provisions of § 1540 of the Code of Iowa as
amended and substituted by an act of the General Assembly
of the State of Iowa, approved April 3d, 1884.
Par. 4th. That said defendants, at the saloon and place
aforesaid, have heretofore, to wit, since the 15th day of July,
1884, by themselves, their clerk, agent, and servant, sold, and
continue from day to day to sell, intoxicating liquors, to wit,
whiskey, wine, gin, and beer, as a beverage, contrary to law.
Par. 5th. That said defendants are the owners of the premises aforesaid, and are the owners of certain whiskey, gin, wine,
and beer kept and contained in certain kegs, bottles, and other
vessels for illegal sale upon said premises as aforesaid, and are
the owners of certain furniture and fixtures on the said premises used in said business.
Par. 6th. Whereby and by reason of the premises and in
manner and form as aforesaid, the said -defendants, Schmidt
Bros., at the saloon and place aforesaid, have established and
are now keeping and maintaining a nuisance, to the great injury of the plaintiff and other good citizens of said count., and
to the detriment of the public peace 'and safety, and unless restrained by the order and decree of this court, will continue to

SCHMIDT v. COBB.
Statement of Facts.

keep and maintain said nuisance at said place, in violation of
law and to the public injury. Wherefore plaintiff prays that
said saloon and place be adjudged and decreed to be a nuisance,
and that the same be abated, and said defendants be enjoined
by preliminary injunction from further keeping or maintaining
said saloon and place for the illegal sale of intoxicating liquors,
and also from keeping the said liquors with intent to sell the
same contrary to law, and also from selling the same in said
place contrary to law either by themselves or their clerk,
agent, or servant, and that upon final hearing said injunctic.L
be made perpetual, and that plaintiff .have such other and further relief as in equity he is entitled to, and also that he have
judgment for costs.
-At the same term respondents appeared, and on the 24th
September, 1884, demurred to the petition, assigning the following reasons for demurrer. (1) The petition shows that
plaintiff has no legal capacity to sue. (2) The petition shows
no such interest in the plaintiff, in the event of the suit, as will
enable him to maintain this action. (3) The petition nowhere
alleges that said defendant has been, by a proper tribunal-, convicted of the alleged nuisance sought to be enjoined. (4) The
petition shows that this court has no jurisdiction of the cause
of action set out in the petition. (5) The court has no jurisdiction of this action, because it is an attempt, in a court of
chancery, to pass upon the guilt or innocence of the (lefendant
under a penal and criminal statute, and it is by said action
sought to deprive him of a jury trial upon the issue raised.
(6) The section of the statute under which this action is brought
is unconstitutional, null, and void, because it is an attempt to
deprive the party accused of the offence herein of a jury trial.
(7) The facts stated in the petition do not entitle the plaintiff
to the relief demanded.
At September Term 1885, defendants presented the following petition for the remova- -)f the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States, entitldd in the cause:
1st. Your petitioner, the above named defendant, shows to
the court that he is, and for five years last past has been, a
citizen of the State of Iowa.
VOL. cxIx-19

'OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

2d. That long prior to and ever since the fourth day of
July, A.D. 1S84, he was continuously engaged upon the prem-

ises mentioned in plaintiff's petition, in the business of keeping
a saloon, under and in accordance with the laws of Iowa.
3d. That in the commencement and prosecution of said
'business he had and has involved property of great value,
which will be rendered entir6ly worthless if the plaintiff succeeds against him in the present action, and being over twenty
dollars in value.
4th. That there has been no trial or final hearing of this
cause.
5th. That the twentieth General Assembly of the State
of Iowa passed an enactment which petitioner prays may be
considered in this case, which by its terms went into effect on
th e 4th day of July, A.D. 1884, being cc. 8 and 143, laws of
the 20th General Assembly of the State of Iowa., amending and repealing sections of title XI, c. 6, Code of Iowa.,
relating to the sale of intoxicating liquors, which renders
highiy penal the prosecution of said saloon business, and
which, if enforced, as threatened, as hereinafter stated, will
destroy the property of defendant so used and deprive him
unlawfully of said occupation.
6th. That under the provisions of said law defendant can
be deprived of his property and punished with heavy penal-,
ties for being engaged in said saloon business without having
the opportunity and right of a jury 'trial upon the questions
involved, and without 'any trial whatever, except as pointed
,outby said act.
7th. That the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, at Mrarch
Term, 1885, in the case of Litteton v. _Fritz, has declared said
law in full force, and the persons in the situation of defendant
can be prosecuted under it and be deprived of property and
liberty without any right to a jury trial.
8th. That under said enactment and said decision the said
plaintiff has begun and is prosecuting this suit.
9th. That by said proceedings under said enactment and
said decision said defendant is deprived of the rights guaranteed him under the acts of Congress usually known as the

SCHIMIDT v. COBB.
Statement of Facts.

"Civil Rights" law, and under the Constitution of the United
States and amendments thei eto especially is he denied, and he
cannot enforce in the State judicial tribunals of Iowa, the
rights secured to him under said "Civil Rights" law and said
Constitution of the United States, and especially the 14th
Amendment thereto, and said ena6tment of said 20th General
Assembly and said decision are in violation of said "Civil
rights " law.

"Therefore defendant offers, as provided by law, to file copies
of all pleadings and proceedings herein in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Iowa on the first
day of its next term, and prays that this suit may be removed
into said court, as provided by § 641 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States."
On -the 21st September, 1885, this petition was granted, and
the cause was ordered to be removed. By the endorsement, of
the deputy clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States the
papers appear to have been filed in that court on the 17th
November, 1885.
On the 23d December, 1885, an amended petition, endtled
as of September Term, 1SS-1, District Court of Dubuque
County, Iowa, was filed in the Circuit Court of the- United
States. This differed from the previous petition in the following respects.' Paragraphs 1 and 5 were identical in both.
In paragraph 2 defendants were styled "Schmedt" instead of
"Schmidt," and "Alfred" instead of "Albert"; the locus was
averred as "a saloon" instead of "a,saloon and a place"; and
the words "at retail as a beverage" were omitted. In paragraphs 3, 4, and 6, the same changes were made in the averment as to the locus, and in the words "at retail and as a
beverage."
On the 17th November, 1885, plaintiff moved, in the Circuit
Court, to remand the cause to the District Court of Iowa for
the following reasons: "(1) Because the petition for removal
fails to state facts showing that defendants were entitled to
remove said action from the State court under the provisions'of § 641 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
(2) Because said petition fails to state facts sufficient to give -

292

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Statement of 'Facts.

court jurisdiction of said action. (3) Because said petition
fails to state facts showing that defendants are denied or cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State of Iowa any
rights secured to them by any law providing for the equal
civil rights of citizens of the United States, or of all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States, within the provisions and purview of § 641 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. (4) Because said action was improperly
removed from said State court, as it involves no dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction of this court."
On the 23d December, 1885, defendants filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States the following amended petition for
removal:
"1st. Your petitioners, the above named defendants, show to
the court that they are, and for five years last past have been,.
citizens of the United States and the State of Iowa, residing in
the State of Iowa..
"2d. That long prior to the 4th day of July, A.D. 1884, and
ever since that time they have been engaged in the business of
brewing beer and selling the same at both wholesale and retail,
and they have kept upon the premises mentioned in the petition, being the same premises upon which said beer is manufactured, which said premise.; have all said time belonged to
and are now owned by defendants, and contain large breweries,
erected for the purpose of manufacturing beer and for no other
purpose, and are suited for no other purpose, a room and bdr
where said beer so manufactured is kept for sale at retail,
which is the keeping of a saloon charged in the petition herein
and not other or different, and defendants claim that such
business 5.s legal under the laws of Iowa.
"3d. That they have invested in said business of brewing and
selling beer a large sum of money, and there is involved in this
case, in addition to the personal rights of defendants, the sum
of ten thousand dollars, exclusive 6f costs, and more than that
amoant of property belonging to defendants will be rendered
entirely worthless if. plaintiff succeeds against them in the
present action.
"4th. That there has been no trial or final hearing of this
case.

-SCW4XIDT

v. COBB.

9

Statement of Facts.

"5th. That plaintiff has filed his motion herein for a tem-.
porary injunction to restrain defendants from prosecuting their
said business, which plaintiff is endeavoring to press to a hearing in the State court, which, if allowed, will be of irreparable
injury to defendants.
"6th. That the 20th General Assembly of the State of Iowa
passed an enactment which defendants ask may be considered
in this case, which, by its terms,.went into effect on the 4th
day of July, A.D. 1884, being cc. 8 and 143, laws of the 20th
General Assembly of the State of Iowa, amending sections
of title XI, chapter VI of the Code of Iowa, relating to the,
sale of intoxicating liquors, which defendants claim should be
declared of no effect, .vhich renders highly penal the prosecution of said business of defendants, and *vhich, if- enforced, as
threatened, in this case, as hereinafter stated, will destroy the
property of defendants so used and deprive them unlawfully
of their said occupation.
"7th. That under the provisions of sail law defendants can
be deprived of their property and punished with heavy penalties for being engaged in said business without havin, the
opportunity and right of a trial by jury upon the questions of
fact involved, and without any trial whatever except as pointed
out by said act.
"Sth. That the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, in the
case of Littetoa v: F itz, decided at the March Term, A.D. 1885,.
of said court, to which reference is here prayed, has declared
said law in full force, and that persons in the situation of
defendants can be prosecuted under it, and be deprived of
property and liberty without any right of a jury trial.
"9th. That under said enactments and said decision the said
plaintiff has begun and is prosecuting ths suit without any
right to or interest therein, except what said enactment and
said decision confer.
"10th. That under said law and said decision persons who are,
charged with being engaged in the saloon business are guilty
of maintaining a nuisance - thereby are, and their property is,
discriminated against in being deprived of the same mode of
trial that persons charged with maintaining other nuisances

291

OCTOBER TEit,

i886.

Statement of Fact§.

in violation of law are allowed, and other and different and
more onerous penalties and punishment are imposed against
them and against their property than are denouncell against
persons charged with maintaining other kinds of nuisances.
"11th. That under said law, and especially 1526, as amended,
of the Code of Iowa, petitioners are denied the right to manu-'
facture or sell beer or other manufactured liquors for any
-purpose whatsoever on accoant of their occupation, while
persons engaged in other occupations are allowed to engage in
such sales.
"12th. That said law and said decision are in derogation of
the rights of defendants as guaranteed by the Constitution of the
United States, and especially as guaranteed by the 14th Amendment thereof, and defendants are thereby denied the equal pro
tection of the laws of said State of Iowa, and are deprived, and
liable to, be deprived, of libarty and proparty without due process of law.
"13th. That by said law and said decision they are denied in
these proceedings in the State court the equal protection of the
laws of Iowa as guaranteeZt by said Constitution of the United'
States and said amendment and by the laws of Congress, as
passed for their protection.
"14th. That said laws, so passed by the said 20th General Assembly of Iowa, are null and void as being contrary to the said
14th Amendment of the Constitution of the United States and
the laws made in pursuance thereof, but the Supreme Court of
the State of Iowa has refused so to declare, holding the same
binding and of full force.
"Therefore defendants offer, as provided by law, to file copies
of all pleadings and proceedings herein in the circuit court of
the United States for the Northern District of Towa, Eastern
Division, on the first day of its next term, and to file a bond,
conditioned as provided by law, if such bond be demanded, and
pray that this suit, which arises under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and the present being the first term
at which said suit could be tried, and is also removable under
§ 641 ot the Revised Statutes of the United States, may be
removed into the next term of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Iowa, Eastern Division."

SCHAIDT v. COBB.
Opinion of the Court.

'The following is a transcript from the record of the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United States for the NTortheih
District of Iowa on the 1st day of February, 1886, touching this
cause:
"This day this cause coming on to be heard, upon the
motion of complainant to remand the same to the State
court, the complainant, having, by leave of court heretofore
made, filed his amendment to his bill of complaint, and the
defendant, by leave of court heretofore given, having filed, his
amended petition for removal of said cause into this court, and
the court having read as well the amended pleadings of plain-'
tiff and the amended petition for removal of defendant, and
having considered the same, and having heard the said parties
by their respective counsel, and being fully advised, grants
said motion to remand made by said plaintiff, upon the ground
that there is no Federal question involved in said cause. It is
therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said cause be
remanded to the district court in and for Dubdique county,
Iowa, from which it came, and that plaintiff recover his costs
in this cou-t against defendants; to all of which the defendants, by their counsel, then and there excepted.
"And thereupon the defendants, in open court, file their
petition for appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
from said decree and present for approval their supersedeas
bond.
"The court, after argument by counsel for the respective
parties, being fully advised, allows said appeal to the Supreme
Court and approves said supersedeas bond, which is done
accordingly."
On the docketing of the cause here, the appellee.moved to
dismiss the appeal, and united with this motion a motion to,
affirm the order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause.
.Mr. S. P. Adams, Mr.,fed Lake, and Me1. H ff. Beach for
the motion.
3Tr. ff. B. Fouhe opposing.
'I.

Cir JUt'STICE AVAITE

announced that the decroe below

was
Afflred &y a Divided Court.

