OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
Syllabus.

the defendant's letter of December 8, directed the defendant
to enter an order for twelve hundred tons on the same terms.
The mention, in both telegram and letter, of the date and the
terins of the defendant's original offer, shows that the plaintiff's order was not an independent proposal, but an answer to
the-defendant's offer, a qualified acceptance of that offer, varying the number of tons, and therefore in law a rejection of the
offer. On December 18, the defendant by telegram declined
to fulfil the plaintiff's order. The negotiation between the
parties was thus closed, and the plaintiff could not afterwards
fall back on the defendant's original offer. The plaintiff's
attempt to do so, by the telegram of December 19, was therefore ineffectual and created no rights against the defendant.
Such being the legal effect of what passed in writing between the parties, it is unnecessary to consider whether, upon
a fair interpretation of the instructions of the court, the question whether the plaintiff's telegram and letter of December 16
constituted a rejection of the defendant's offer of December 8
was ruled in favor of the defendant as matter of law, or was
submitted to the jury as a question of fact. The submission
of a question of law to the jury is no ground of exception if
they decide it aright. Pence v. -,angdon, 99 'U.S. 578.
,Tudgment c~afrmed.

FREI OH v. HALL.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted November 8,1886.- Decided November 29, 1886.

An attorney at law, prosecuting or defending in a civil action, is a competent witness on behalf of his client at the trial of the action.
When it is within the discretion of the court whether to admit evidence in
rebuttal which might have been offered in chief, the party offering it is
entitled to the exercise of the discretion at the time of the offer.

FRENCH v. HMAJL:
Opinion of the Court.

This was an action at law to reck ver for services claimed to
have been rendered by plaintiff in error to defendant in error.
Judgment for defendant, to review which this writ of error
was sued out. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.-Yr. Amos Steck and .AL:. X. B. Carenterfor plaintiff in
error.
A/?r. Eadward 0. Woltott for defendant in error.
,MR.

Jusnc, MATTHrrws delivered-the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, a citizen of
Massachusetts, brought his action at law in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Colorado, against the
defendant in error, to recover for tlhe value of services alleged
to have been performed by him for the defendant, as a broker,
in reference to the sale of certain mining property in which
the defendant was interested. There was a general denial by
the answer of the defendant, and the cause was submitted to
a jury upon the issue joined. The record shows that on the
first trial there was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $5060,
which, on a motioii for a new trial, was set aside on payment
of costs. Thereupon, at a subsequent term, the cause cam on
again for trial by jury, and there was a'verdict for the defendant, and judgment rendered thereon, to reverse which is
the object of the present writ of error.
It appears from the bill of exceptions taken on the second
trial that the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, gave
evidence tending to prove that the defendant, Hall, promised
to pay him $5000 for his services in assisting the defendant to
make sale of certain, mining property in which he was interested. The defendant, to maintain the issue on his part, gave
evidence tending to prove that he never promised to pay the
plaintiff any sum whatever. The defendant, while on the
stand as a witness, on cross-examination, testified that he never
told any one that he promised to pay the plaintiff the sum of
$5000, and further testified that he never told the attorney of
the plaintiff, Mason B. Carpenter, that he promised to.pay the

OCTOBER TERI,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff the sum of $5000. The plaintiff in rebuttal offered as
a witness the said attorney, Mason B. Carpenter, who was the
sole attorney of plaintiff in conducting the trial of said cause,
and who offered to testify that the defendant, Hall, had told
him, the said Carpenter, that at a certain time and place he,
the defendant, promised to pay the plaintiff, French, the sum
of $5000.
The court refused to allow the said Carpenter to be sworn
as a witness for the plaintiff because he ws acting as anf attorney for the plaintiff in conducting the trial of the cause, to
which ruling the counsel for the plaintiff excepted.
It further appears from the bill of exceptions that afterwards, upon a motion for a new trial, the court said that the
said Carpenter was in fact competent to testify as a witness
for the plaintiff, but that his testimony was not offered at the
proper time; that the testimony of the witness Carpenter was
receivable only in chief and upon the plaintiff's opening, and
not in rebuttal; and that this being the second trial of the
cause, the plaintiff was not surprised by the testimony of the
defendant, Hall, and it was his duty to give in chief and in his
opening all evidence as to admissions by the defendant as well
as other matters. For this reason the motion for a new trial
was denied.
The question for consideration is, whether the court erred in
its ruling in not permitting the examination of the plaintiff'.,
attorney as a witness on the plaintiff's behalf. It appears
from the bill of exceptions that no objection was made to the
examination of the witness by the defendant; the refusal to
allow him to be sworn seems to have emanated from the court
sva &ponte, on the ground that he was acting as an attorney
for the plaintiff in conducting the trial of the cause. There is
nothing in the policy of the law, as there is no positive enactment, which hinders the attorney of a party prosecuting or
defending in a civil action from testifying at the call of his
client. In some cases it may be unseemly, especially if counsel
is in a position to comment on his own testimony, and the
practice, therefore, may very properly be discouraged; but
there are cases, also, in which it may be quite important, if

FRENCH v. HALL.
Opinion, of the Court.

not necessary, tlat the testimony should be admitted to prevent injustice or to redress wrbng. Such seems, also, to have
been the more deliberate opinion of the Circuit Court in this
case, as it appears from the bill of exceptions that the refusal
to grant a new trial for the. alleged error in its ruling was
justified, not on the ground that the witness was incompetent,
but that his -testimony wa5 not offered at the proper time,
being receivable only in chief Inpon the plaintiff's opening, and
not irrebuttal.
This reason might hve applied if the object of the testimony had been merely to prove an admission on the part of
the defendant, and the offer had been rejected on that ground
at the time, although it would be a strict application of the
rule to require the plaintiff to assume in advance that the defendant would deny as a witness th truth of the plaintiff's
case. But aside from that, the testimony seems to have-been
competent in rebuttal as proof of a contradictory statement
made by the defendant at another time and place, with a view
to discrediting him as a witness. However that may be, and
admitting that the testimony offered was strictly competent
only in chief, nevertheless it was a matter of discretion with
the court at the time of the trial whether the testimony should
be admitted when offered after the defendant had testified .
The plaintiff was entitled to the exercise of that discretion on
the part of the court at that time, which in the present case
he was deprived of by the ruling of the court rejecting the
offer of the testimony on another and an illegal ground. We
are of the opinion that the court erred to the prejudice of the
plaintiff in this respect. The judgment of the Circuit Court
is therefore
Reversed and tMe cause eemanded, with directions to grant
aew trial.

