CONTINENTAL INS. CO: v. RHOIADS.
Stateme6t of Facts.

been brought up by atpeal; and the writ of error is therefore dismigsed. Htecht v. Boughton, 105. U. S. 235; United
Statev v. Railroad Co., 105 U. S. 263; Woool v. Tamilton,
108 U. S. 15. The question is no longer open in this court.
- The statutory rule is jurisdictional.

CONTINENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. RHOADS.
ERROR'TO THE 6IRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 9, 10, 1886. -Meclded

November 29, 18S.

A declaration in an action at law in a Circuit Court of thd United States by
an administrator against an Insurance Company, which alleges that the
intestate was a citizen of the State in which the action is brought, and that
letters of administration were granted plaintiff in that State, and that
the company is a citizen of another State, without any allegation respectIng the citizenship of, the administrator, fails to show a citizenship in
the plaintiff to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, and cannot be
amended in that respect in this court: but the court below may, on the
case being remanded, in its discretion, allow"this to be done.

This was an action at law against the plaintiff in error,
defendant below, brought by the defendant in error as administratrix of Mlaris lRhoads, deceased, to recover on a policy
of life insurance. The allegations in the declaration, material
to the point decided by the court, were the following:
"Ann Eliza IRhoads, administratrix, &c., of Maris Rhoads'
late a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, deceased, complainsof the Continental Life ihsurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, a foreign corporation, incorporated under the laws of'
the State of Connecticut, and a citizen thereof, who has been
summoned in this writ to answer the plaintiff in a plea of trespass on the case, &c., for that whereas heretofore, to wit, on
the twenty-ninth day of August, A.D. 1877, and in the lifetime of the said Maris Rhoads, who is now deceased, and -in
the district aforesaid, the aforesaid corporation, defendant,

OCTOBER 'TERM,

1886.

Statement ,of Facts.

made and delivered to the said Maxis 'Rhoads a certain policy
of insurance, which the plaintiff now brings into court, and
which is in the words and figures following, to wit : . . .
"And the plaintiff further saith that the said Maxis Rhoads
afterwards, to wit, on the second day of December, A.D. 1880,
died, and that in his lifetime and down to the time of his death
he, the said M aris Rhoads, performed and fulfilled and did not
violate any of the conditions and agreements of the saial policy.
of insurance, according to the true intent and meaning thereof,
all of which the said company, defendant, had notice.
"And the plaintiff further says that afterwards, to wit, on the
'thirtieth day of Deceifiber, A.D. 1880, letters of administra*tion were duly granted upon the estate of the -said Maiis'
Rhoads, deceased, to the said Ann Eliza Rhoads by the register
.of wills of Delaware county, in the State of Pennsylvania
which said letters of administration the plaintiff now brings
here into court."
These were all the allegations respecting the citizenship of
the paities. A trial was had, and verdict for plaintiff, and
judgment on the verdict; and a bill of exceptions was allowed.
Defendant sued out this writ of error, and among others,
made the following assignments of error:
4. Because it does not affirmatively appear from the record
that the court below had jurisdiction of the case.
5. Because it does not appear sufficiently from the record
that the court below had jurisdiction of the case
6. Because it appears from the record that the court below
had no jurisdiction of the case.
The defendant in error offered to file in this court, as a
basis for a motion to amend, the following affidavit entitled as
of the cause in the court below:
STATE OP PENISYLVAMA,

CouNrr

Iss

OF DELAWARE, f

Ann Eliza Rhoads, the above named plaintiff, being duly
affirmed, says that she is the widow and administratrix of
aris Rhoads, who died on the second day of December, A.D.
isso. That at the time of his death she resided with him in

CONTINENTAL INS. CO. t,, RHO ADS.
- Opinion of the Court.

Springfield township, Delaware county, Pennsylvania., where
she still resides; and that she was at the time of the cimmencement of the above suit or action, and still is, a citizen of
the State of Pennsylvania.
Affirmed and subscribed February 8th, A.D. 1886, 'before

A~nq

mel.
LS

LJ

E7A RnoADs.

A. P. OTI'Y,
Notary Public.

Mr. S. C. _Perkins for plaintiff in error.
31r. 1?obert T. Cornwell for defendant in error.
ifooton was vith him on--he brief.

Mr. F. C.

'Aa CHIEF JusTiCE WAIrrE delivered the opinibn of the
court.
One of the errors assigned on this record is that thp Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction. It was settled at a very early day
that the facts on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
rest must, in some form, appear on the face of the record of
all suits prosecuted before them. Turner v. Bank of YoYrth
Ameriea, 4 Dall. 8; Buslnell v. -enhedy, 9 Wall. 387; Bornthiall v. Collector, 9 Wall..560; Exparte &nith, 94 U. S. 455;
Robertson, v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646; Grace v. American Central
In. Co., 109 U. S. 278, 283; Brs v. Pr'eston, 111 U. S. 252,
255; Mansfield," Coldwater anZ-1ale Michigan 1ailway v.
,S'waA, 111 U. S. 379, 382; Ha/neock v. Holbrook, 112 'U. S.
229. And it is error fora court to proceed without its jurisdiction. is shown. Grace v. American Central ,msurance Co:;
smpra; T1 ayer v. Life .Association,112 U. S. 717; XJfansfe7,
dc., ?ahilway v. Swan, svipr.
It is conceded that the jurisdiction in this case depends
alone on the citizenship of the parties, and that there is not
in the declaration any averment in express terms of the citizenship. of the plaintiff. It does appear that the defendant
was, at the commencement of the suit, a citizen of Connecti-

