CUNARD STEAMSHIP CO. v. CAREY.
Statement of Facts.

CUNARD STEAMSIP COMPANY v. CAREY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 8, 185. - Decided November 15, 1886.

While A, a longshoreman in the employ' of a Steamship Company, was
engaged in his regular work, a tub filled with coal fell upon him and
injured him seriously. The fall was caused by the breaking of a rope
which suspended the tub. A sued the Company, to recover damages,
claiming that the injury was caused by the negligence of B In not providing a proper rope to hold the tub after notice of the insufficiency and
weakness of the one which broke, and that B was an agent of ihe, Company; for whose acts or omissions it was responsible. The Company
defended, setting up (1) contributory negligence in A; and (2) that
B was a fellow-servant of A, for-whose acts or omissions the Company was not responsible. The judge who presided at the trial refused
to direct a verdict for the Company, and referred the question of contributory negligence to the jury; and also referred to them the question
as to what the authority of B was. There were various exceptions by
the Company to the charge, and to refusals to charge. A verdict was
rendered in favor of A, an*d judgment entered on the verdict. This court
affirms that judgment by a divided court.

Case to recover for personal injuries received by pliintiff
below (defendant in error) while in the service of defendant,
and in the performanc3 of his ordinary duties. The evidence
was sent up with the exceptions. There was conflic-ing testimony on some points, but the following material facts appeared,
to be conceded as established, in. the briefs both of plaintiff's
and defendant's counsel.
Carey, the 1laintiff below, had been in the employ'of the
Steamship Company for two years as longshoreman, and on
the evening of November 3d, 1880, was sent, with others, into
the hold of its steamship Batavia to assist in shifting coal from
that place to the steerage deck above. The *particularwork
assigned to him was that of"hooking full tubs to the hoisting
apparatus, for the purpose of haviig them raised, and of unhooking empty tubswhen they had descended; and his duty
/required him to be stationed at the edge of the hatch, on the

OCTOBER- TERM, 1886.
Statemeht of F cts.

in shore side of the ship, or that nearest the dock, where all of
the coal was which the men were engaged in shifting.
Two falls were in use on the hoisting apparatus, each operating a tub, one of which ascended while the other descended;
and a man'named Henretty was stationed in the hold, on the
opposite side of the hatch to Carey, whose duties were similar
to those of Carey. Each attended to the tub ascending and
cfescending on his side of the hatch.
The rope in 'the falls was a spliced rope and was part of the'
usual hoisting apparatus operated by steam power, and ran
through various blocks attached to a derrick to a drum worked
by an engine on a scow at the ship's side.,
The superintendent of the dock, Storey, was not present
at any time on that evening. The next person-in rank to him
was Patrick Craven. His relations with the company 'were
thus described by himself when testifying as a witness in- the
case for defendant. -' Q. What were your duties on that dock?
A. To take on men and put them to work and discharge the
men when, I got done with them. Q. Did you hire men?
A. Yes, sir; I hired all the men. Q. What were your duties
with regard to 'the apparatus on the dock? A. TQ zee that
everything was all'right for the men.' About five o'clock thaV
afternoon Craven diredted Robert Graham, (who was employed by the Company to take charge of rigging up the ships)
,to rig the falls for the purpose of hoisting up coal. Graham
selected a fall from Company's storehouse, and work began.
About eight o'clock Craven, not feeling well, quit work,'and
-at nine o'clock he left the dock. The apparatus for hoisting
worked well up to the time he quit work, and when he left the
dock he had had no information that anything was wrong.
When he left, he left Gerraghty, the coal foreman, iii charge,
also an employ6 of the Company.
Gerraghty's relations with the Company were thus described
'by Craven in his testimony. "Q. In your absence who takes
your place in discharging men if it is necessary, seeing to the
condition of the falls and things on the dock? A. Christy
Gerraghty would take the discharging and hiring of men if I
was to be absent, and Robert Graham would take charge of

CUNARD

STEAMSHIP CO. v. CAREY.

2-7

Statement of Facts.

the falls. Q. Suppose you were both absent? A. I couldn't
tell who it would be then. RPlainif s Counsel: I understand
that in the absence of Graham and Craven, Gerraghty would
have full charge? The Titness -Yes, sir; Christ. Gerraghty
wotild have charge then. Q. Both of the men. and of the
gear? '(No answer.) Defendant's Counsel: Q. Did Christy
Gerraghty have any power to hire and discharge aen ihidependently of you?' A. No, sir. Q. No matter whether you
were there or not? A. Well, if I wasn't there, he would have
the power."
Gerraghty was called as a witness on defendant's behalf,
and on this point testified as follows: "In chief - Q. As
boss of the coal gang, what wereyour duties on the Cunard
dock in November, 1880? A. To look after the men and get
coal removed from one hold into the other. Q. Did you have
anything to do with the apparatus that was used in such
work? A. No, sir. Q. Did you have anything to do with
buying it? A. No, sir. Q. Or kieping it in order? A.
No, sir." " Cross-Q. Having charge of the gang it would' be
your duty to go around and see that the men were doing their
duty?, A. Yes, sir. Q. And see that the apparatus was all
right? A. That I very seldom looked after - the apparatus. Q. You did that night? A. Not until my attention
was called to it. Q. What did you go down on the scow for?
A. I was called down there. , Q. Who called you? A. I
eouldn't say. Q. Did' the man who called you state what
we's required of you; what was wanted of you down there?
-A. 1 was down in the ship's bold at the time, and some 'of
the naen overhea4 that was wheeling or dumping, I don't
know which, perhaps one of the men that might be picking. up
slack coal, told me I was wanted down on the scow to look ai
the, fall. I got up and went down on the scow then. Q. You
do remember now a little bit what it was that called you out
of the hold? A. Yes, sir; when it comes to that I do., Q.
You went over on the scow ? At. Yes, sir. Q. Who did you
see when you first got there? A. I couldn't exactly say
which of the three men I first seen when I got in Ihere.- Q.
Who first spoke to you? A. I think it was O'PRien; I am

QOCTOBER TERAM; 1886.
Statement of Fate;.

not positive of that either; whether it was Mr. O'Brien or Jo.
Redmond.. Q. Do you recollect, without stating, what it was
'that was irst said to you when you first got down on the
scow? A. I think the first thing that was said to me was to
loQk at this fall. Q. And you looked at it, did you? A. Yes,
sir. Q. What'did' you do that for? A. To see what was
the matter with it, 6f course. Q. You thought it was your
duty to, didn't you? A. I considered it was my duty then to
do it when I was sent for. Q. There was nobody else there
that you knew of whose duty it would be to look after that
fall at that time but yourself, was there? A. No; sir: Q.
What'part of the fall did O'Brien tell you to look at? -A.
The part which he told me to look at was on the outside of
the scow at the time, and he hauled it in, and I looked at -it
then, and I saw the turns were worked out of the fall."
O'Brien, also an employ6 of the Company, was stationed
that night in the scow alongide the ship. He ws a witness
for plaintiff,, and thus described his relations with the other
employ~s. "Q. How long had you been in the employ of the
Cunard Steamship Company? A. Somewhere over a year,;
about a year, or somewhere about that. Q.-During that time
-Who was. your foreman, your immediate foreman; did you
,have the same one at every job or different ones? A. The
same as we had that night. Q. Generally speaking, did you
always have the same foreman? A. We had -Mr. Craven. Q.
Who.was he? A. He was the foreman and stevedore on the
dock -all

over.

.

.

.

Q.

Who gave you directions from time

to time in your avocation there? A. Sometimes Mr. Craven
would give us directions, and sometimes Mr. Gerraghty would
give us directions; sometimes another foreman that is there
used to give iis directions, owing to what work we were at.
Q. DidMr. Storey ever give you directions? A. Sometimes,
yes, sir; very seldom, because he used to deliver it to his foreman, Q. Sometimes you got directions froim Mr. Craven, I
understand you? A. Yes, sir. Q. And who else? A. Mr.
Gei-raghty and another foreman that used to be there used 'to
give us directions. Q. Was this other foreman there on the
third of November? A. He was in the day there; yes, sir. Q.

CUNARD STEAMSHIP CO. v; CARRY.
Statement of Facts..

You man this other foreman you have mentioned whose name
you have not given? A. Was he there that day? Q. Yes, sir.
A. He was there in the daytime, but not that night....
By the OCorut: Q. Supposing an accident had happened to the
drum, that it had been. deranged, in your natural course of
business what would you do? A. I would have to notify my
foreman. P~intif's Counel: Q. And who was that? -A:
That was Ulrdsty Gcrraghty; we acknowledge him as such
always. Q. You received your orders directly from him?
A. That night, yes, sir. Q. And all your communications to
a superior officer were to him? A. That night, yes, sir. Q..
And that, I understand you, was the usual course of business?
A. Yes, sir. Reyross: Q. Do you mean to say that you always
applied to Mr. Gerraghty? A. lNo, sir. Q. You applied to
others there? A. To.other foreman; he issuperior'and he is
under sometimes; according to what we are doing."
About eight o'clock on that evening, O'Brien's attention was
attracted to the worn condition of the rope. When Gerraghty
came down upon the scow, O'Brien spoke to him about it.
Gerraghty directed him to look out for the rope, and if the
turns should come out again, to take it off and put them' in.
O'Brien continued to operate the rope without doing anything
to it. At about half-past nine Gerraghty's attention was again
called to it. He then tdqk the fall off the drum, and put some
turns in it, threw that part of it into water to steep it; and
then work was resumed with it. Shortly afterwards the rope
broke and the tub of coal it was hoisting fell upon Carey, who
was in the hatchway beneath, and injured him seriously. He
had beeif directed not to stand there while a,load was ascending; because there was.danger from falling lumps of coal which
might be jostled from the tubs in their ascent.
After the evidence was in, defendant's counsel moved the
court to direct a verdict for the defendant, on the ground§ first, contributory negligence of the plaintiff; second, that the
evidence failed to establish negligence on the part of tile defendant; and, third, that the injury was caused solely by the
negligence of a fellow-servant of the plaintiff. The 'court
denied the motion and defendant's counsel excepted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

Defendant's counsel then asked the court to make t~e followeing several instructions, eachl of which was refused, and to
each of which refusal an exception was duly taken. The refusals as to the third and sixth requests were that the judge
would not instruct the jury. in the language requested, or otherwise than as the request was included in the language of the
charge. As to the other requests it was absolute.
' First. That in the management and operation of the hoisting apparatus Gerraghty and O'Brien were the fellow servants
of the plaintiff."
,'Second. That if there was negligence on the part of
O'Brien, and also of Gerraghty, in the operation of the hoisting apparatus and the use of the fall which parted, and the

plaintiff's injury resulted from such negligence, or that of
,either of them, they being his fellow servants, he cqnnot recover against the defendant,, whether the plaintiff was guilty
of contributory negligence or not."
"Third. That O'Brien was a fellow servant of the plaintiff,
-and if the injury was occasioned solely by his negligence, the
plaintil cannot recover."
j!Fourth. That Christy Gerraghty was, m the- operation of
.fhe'apparatus, a fellow servant of the plaintiff, and if the in-jury was occasioned solely by his carelessness in operating the
apparatus, the plaintiff cannot recover."
"Fifth. That if the fall was sufficient in itself and adequate
for the work when delivered to the workmen, and the injury
,occurred throdgh their negligent use of it, the plaintiff cannot
recover."
"Sixti. .That the duty of the company to its employ~s is
discharged when its agents, whose business it is to supply The
apparatus, exercise due care in the purchase thereof, and keeping it in a reasonably safe condition for use."
"Seventh. That if when Gerraghty had put the turns in the
rope and wet it, it was then in an apparently good condition
'and fit for use, provided it was kept from becoming untwisted,
and if Gerraghty directed O'Brien to keep watch of the rope,
and if the turns came out again to stop and put them in again;
and if thereafter the splice of the rope drew out in consequence

, CUNARD ,STEAMSHIP CO. q. CAREY.
Statement of Facts.

of the turns coming out again, O'Brien having failed to see
that they were so coming, out, and by reason of such drawing
of the splice the plaintiff received his injury, such injury was
the result of negligence of a fellow servant, and the plaintiff
cannot recover."
"Eighth. That if the plaintiff had been warned by Craven
not to be under the hatch when a draught was coming up,
and if the plaintiff was under the hatch when the tub in question fell on him, -he cannot recover."
The following are the material parts of the charge of the
court, the parts excepted to being in italics and numbered (1),

(2), &c.
"The first point in the case is whether Carey contributed to
the injury by any negligence of his own; for if he, by his 'own
negligence, directly contributed to the injury, although it was
caused by the negligence of another, he cannot recover. If
he could, by the exercise of ordinary care on his part, have
avoded the injury he cannot recover.
"I am requested to charge you, and do so, that if the plaintiff
(that is, Carey) in his work failed to exercis6 the care' and
caution which a prudent man would exercise under the same
circumstances, and but for which failure he would not have
been injured, he cannot recover, notwithstanding the defendant was negligent.
"The negligence which it is claimed existed on his part was
the standing under the hatchway when the tubs were ascending and descending, and which it is said he had been warned
not to do, because it was a dangerous place. (1) I do ot
understand"that the defendant's superintendent, Arr. Cravn,
warned the workmen not to stand in the hatchway because th-e
,was "dangerof falling tubs, but because there was danger' 'of

fallinag lumps of coal, which might be jostled fimttb the tub's
i'%their ascent; and the plaintiff insists that he was not
under the hatchway, but on the edge of it, and just in the,
place where the exigencies of his work compelled him to
be, and in a safe place, unless it should become unsafe by
the negligence of the defendant, which the caution of the
plaintiff was powerless to guard against.

OCITOBER -TERM, 1886.
Stat4ment of Facts.

"If the plaintiff is sent to work in a place where seriouscalamities might naturally be expected to arise and where
dangerous accidents might be naturaly bxpected to happen,
then he is callHd upoii either not to go there or to exercise
extra precaution, or else to bear-unrewarded the consequences.
(2) 'But if he was in a safeplacefrom any such injury 'nless
'tdt -ijury should b effected by the unforeseen, and not, natu"rally to be antieipated negligence of the defendant, then he is
called upon to exercise only ordinairy care. And the plaintiff
"claims from the testimony of Christopher Gerraghty that the
plaintiff was in no fault in standing where he did, the point
being that at this time of the execution of the work, when the
coal had almost all been taken from the hold, as the tub
descended it became necessary to guide it to the workmen
wfio were shovelling in the wing of the hold, and that Carey
reached out. his hand or stepped forward under the hatchway,
took hold of the tub by the edge, and guided it to or attempteqd
to guide it to where the shovellers were at work.
* ' The next and important point in the case is whether the
inijury was caused by the negligence of the defendant in pro.viding an unsafe rope or in using the rope after it had become
manifestly unsafe, by its agents, to whom the duty of selecting safe appliances and controlling the use .of and rejecting
unsafe ones had been intrusted.
"As a general rule, the law does not impose upon employers
a liability for injuries to servants which happen by the negligence of co-servants engaged in the common employment in
which the injured party is engaged, although the negligent
servant may be of a grade superior to that of the injured
person, or his foreman in the common business.
' "But the law also requires that employers shall personally
exercise ordinary care in regard to the safety of the machinery
and tackle which the workmen must use, and are responsible
when an injury happens by the use of unsafe machinery, which
the employer knew, or by the exercise of ordinary care would
,have known, was unsafe, and the employ6 did not know of the

OU NARD 9TEAMSmPe CO. v CAREY.
Statement of Facts.

defect from his inability to examine or know about the
machinery.
"The employer is not an insurdr or guarantor of safety; he
(3) is requiredto exercise the care which pfrudence 'requires in
.providing the servanta with machinery reasonably and adequately safe fo r usw by the latter. And the employer is not
bound to furnish the safest or best apparatus for the use of his.
workmen, nor apparatus of any particular character, nor is he
obliged to maintain it up to its maximum strength. But, as Itold you, he is obliged to exercise the care which prudence
requires in providing the -servant with machinery reasonably'
and adequately safe for use by the latter; and (4) when the
erloyer is a co oration, which acts through agents, it isre.3pon&iblefor the negligence of those agents who are intrusted
*U'with the duty of selecting the machinery and of exercising,after
itis selected, a controlling and governing supervision and rejeolion when the selected machinery becozmes unsafe, and they know,
or ought, in the exercise of ordinary care to know, of its un.afety.
"For exan.le, in the case at barit is manifest that .21r. Craven,
who says that he was the manager of the defendant's'coalbusiness
at that dock, with the power of hiring and discharging'nen, and
with the duty of seeing that the falls and agplianpes of this
character vpon the dock were right, is an agent of the cha-racter
which I have described.
"It may, furthermore, in my opinion, be considered as a fact
that the rope was a spliced rope, and that the injury happened
by the untwisting and drawing apart of the portion of the rope
which was spliced. In my opinion, gentlemen, it is so main-"
festly the preponderance of the evidence that this was a spliced
rope, and that the injury happened by the parting of the portion which was spliced, that I do not think it is desirable to
balance the testimony before you upon that point.
"The plaintiff takes two positions: First, that the rope was
unsafe when selected from the storeroom; secondly, that if
safe when selected, it became thereafter unsafe, and was care-

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

lessly permitted by, Gerraghty to remain in a dangerous position.
"I conceive that the important feature in the case is the one
to which I am now coming, and that is: That the plaintiff 'says
that 'if the rope was a good rope in the first place it soon
became unsafe, and that its unsafety was known, or ought to
have been known, by the agent, Gerraghty, to whom, in the
absence of Craven, was intrusted the governing and controlling,
supervising and rejection of unsafe machinery.

.

.

In

examining this point, it is necessary to ascertain what Gerraghty's authority was.
"The only information that we have as to Gerraghty's powers
in the absence of Craven, comes from Craven and from Gerraghty himself. In Craven's presence Gerraghty is a mere
foreman, with no power of discharging men or rejecting
machinery. That is obvious. Bmt what is he in Craven's
absence ? Craven says: "In the absence of myself and Storey,
Gerraghty would have the right to hire and discharge men
and look after the falls and things on the dock." Gerraghty
says: "If I had thought it was necessary to put in a new rope
I'should have done it." -(5) That is t e only testimony upomi
the sbuject, and therefore, gentlemen, there is no need of your
ballancing testimony, but simply to ftnd out, from what these
two persons say, what the authority of Gerraghty was. VV ell,
now assuming, to use a terse expression, that ne "stood
in the shoes" of Craven, and that Craven was ,bsent, let
us go forward and find out what his conduct was- negligent or otherwise. If, gentlemen, he was no more than Le
was when Craven was present, then his knowledge is not the
knowledge of the company.
"Kow, gentlemen, the plaintiff says it is manifest, from the
testimony of O'Brien and Redmond, that the rope was in bad
condition, and was in danger of untwisting, and that Gerraghty did not appreciate the danger, and was satisfied with
simply twisting the turns, replacing the rope, and going

CUNARD STEAMSHIP CO. v. CAREY.
Statement of Facts.

away; that the calamity which followed showed, that the
'rope was in a dangerous condition by reason of uitwisting or
liability to imtwist; and, next, that if Gerraghty's testimony
is true, and he left the rope, simply saying to O'Brien if it
become untwisted put 'the turns in, and did not return to
watch it, and the calamity happened, that is Gerraghty's neglect; that the sphere of Gerraghty's duties that evening was
a, narrow one; that he had only to occupy himself on the
scow and on the steerage deck and in the hold of thesteamer; that this was not the case of an agent who is compelled to go away to a distance and to leave the work in
charge of some one else; that the important duty'of the hour
was to see that the rope did not untwist, and that when he
went away upon the vessel and did not return, content to
intrust the matter to an ordinary workman, and the calamity
happened through the workman's neglect, it is the fault of
Gerraghty, because he had no business that night to abandon
the oversight of the rope in the condition in which it was
when he sa~w it.
"The defendant says, on the other hand, that untwisting of
spliced ropes is a common occurrence in the courst of this
business; that there is no danger from untwisting if precautions are taken to retwist, and that when .Gerraghty told
O'Brien' to look out for the rope and retwist it, he had
intrusted a simple matter 'to O'Brien, which did not demand
the exercise of much thought, and that Gerraghty had then
done all that was his du- ,do.
"These aie the two theories or sets of argifinents which the.
counsel present to you, and (6) if you think that the rrooe was
in a good canditioA when, it went upon, the fall and thereqfter
became in a bdd condition, which Geeraghty, then being in the
shoes of Craven, and,-in the absence of Craven, knew, and
which he ought to have attended to himself and which he did
'not attend to, and the accident happened in coasequence of his
,negligence,then the plaintiffhas made out his case. (7) If, ohe
other hand, you tin7 that Gerraghty did all that was his duty
to do, and that this was a. simple matter and a matter which
r'eqjuijled no care and which it was a safe thing to intrust to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

luinds of O'Brien, if he did intrwst it to Ais hAnds, ten
another conclusion wvill naturallyfollow -that is, that he was
not guilty of negligene."
In connection with exception (1) defendant's counsel requested
the judge further to instruct the jury that "it was imnmaterial
what the danger was, if the direction was that they were not
to stand under the hatch." The judge refused to so charge,
and counsel excepted.
Exception (3) was stated to have "reference solely to the
word 'adequately' in said portion of said charge."
Exception (4) Was taken "to the portion of the charge
wherein the judge instructed the jury that 'Craven was an
agent, of the defendant, intrusted with the duty of selecting
the machinery, and of exercising, after it is selected, a controlling and goyerning supervision, and rejection when the selected.
machinery becomes unsafe, and knew, or ought, in the exercise
of ordinary care, to know of its unsafety.".
Counsel for defendant further requested the judge to charge
the jury: That the jury cannot draw the' conclusion that from
the "appearance of the rope when O'Brien noticed it, it was
insecure at the time when it was furnished, and that the plaintiff's claim in that respect is unfounded. But the judge refused
,to so charge the jury, to which refusal counsel for defendant
excepted.
The jury returned a verdict against the Company for
$15,000. Judgment was entered on the verdict, to review
which this writ of error was sued out.
.i1r.Frank A Sturges and Xr1. _B. A Benedict for plaintiff
in error.
L It was the duty of the court to direct the jury to return
a'verdict for the defendant on the ground that the plaintiff
was guilty of contributory negligence. Railroad Co. v. Jones,
"95 U. S. 439; Sehofeld v. Chicago,&c., Railroad,114U.'S. 615;
Pleasants'v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116; Randall v. Baltimore &
Ohio "Railroad,109 U. S. 478; Shianny v. Androscofgin Hills,
66') faine, 420; AemPmh, &c.,Railroadv. T7omas, 51 Missis-

CUNARD STEAMSHIP CO. v. CAREY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

sippi, 637; Lyon v. Detroit,&c., Railroad,31 Mich. 429; Brown
v. Byroads, 47 Ind. 435; Feich v. Allen, 98 Mass. 572; -re&owu~sTi v. 'orthernPacile Railroad,18 Fed. Rep. 229, 235;
Eqlish v. Cliicago,&c., Railroad,2- Fed. Rep. 906, 910 ; Cun,gthiain v. hicago, &e.,Railroad,5 McCrary, 465, 472.
I. The court should also have directed a verdict for the
defendant because the evidence failed to establish negligence
on the part of the defendant. Hougk v. Railway Co., 1.00
U. S. 213; Baker v. Allegheny Railroad,95 Penn. St. 211;
J3farsh v. hickering, 101 N. Y. 399, 400; Armour v. Hahn,
111 U. S. 313,
III. The court should have directed a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the injury was occasioned through
the negligence of a fellow-servant, for which the. defendant is
not liable. Chicago, &c.,Railway v. Ross, 112 U. S. 377;
Buckley v. Gould & Cuwry M1ining Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 833,
and note; Wood y. New Bedford Coal Co., 121 Mass. 252;.
Brown v. The Winona, &c., Railroad,27 Minn. 162; Hoth v.
Peters, 55 Wis. 405; Keystone Bridge v.. ewbury, 96 Penn.
St. 2416; 3cDermott v. Boston, 133 Mass. 349; fcDon ld v.
Eagle, &c., Al'fg Co., 67 GOorgia, 761 ; Yager v. Receivers, 4
Hughes, 192; Quinn v. The Yew Jersey .Lighterage Co., '23
Fed. Rep. 363; Hough v. Railway'Co., supra. Crispin v.
Babitt, 81 N. Y. 516; Peterson v. The White Breast Coal
Co., 50 Iowa, 673; J.fulenA v. Steamstp Co., 9 Ph'iladelphia,
16; Lawler v. Androscoggin Railroad, 62 Maine, 463; Collins
v. Steinhart, 51 Cal. 116; .farshall v. Schricker, 63 Missouri,
308.
3Y,. Hermon H Shook (Y'. William C. Trull was with
hin on the brief) for defendant in error.
I. Carey was guilty of no contributory negligence. The
law on this point was correctly stated by the court below in
its charge. H7ough v. Railway Co., 100 .U. S.213; Railroad
Co. v. Jones, 95 U.S. 439; Goodfellow v. Boston, &c., Railroad,
106 Mass. 461; Quirk v. Holt, 99 Mass. 164; -fayo v..Bostom
d, _Uaine Railroad,10: Mass. 137; Wheeloch v. Boston & AlVOL. cxrx-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

bany Raih'oad,105 iass. 203; Bevey v. Central Pic-7,,.t,40
Iowa, 564; Bryd(n v. Stewart, 2 Macqueen, 30; 11u-/tern
Pacic Railroad v. lerbert, 116 U. S. 642, 656; lock v. Sioux
City &c. v. Railrocd, 46 Iowa, 109; Gates v. Railroad, 39

Iowa, 45; Wabash Railway v. IcDaniels, 107 U. S. 454.
II. This accident comes within the well settled rule that the
very nature of an accident may of itself, and through the presumptions it carries, supply the requisite proof of negligence.
In support of this rule see Wharton on Negligence, § 441;
Shearman and Redfield on Negligence, § 13; Stokes v. Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181; Transportation Co. v. Downer, 11 Wall.
129; Russell IM'fg Co. v. Steamboalt Co., 50 N. Y. 121 ; Wyckojf
v. Ferry Co., 52 N. Y. 32, 36; Plctt v. Hibbaid, 7 Cow. 497,
500, 501; /MuLllen v. St. ohn,, 57 N. Y. 567; Byrne v. Boadle,
2 H. & 0. 722; Scott v. .Dock Co., 3 H. & C. 596; ffeital v.
JIidlesex 1Bailroad, 109 Mass. 398; iJAcil~aon v. Davidcson,
12 Minn. 357; Atch ison, &c., Railroa-dv. Bales, 16 Kansas, 252;
Kendc'l v. Boston, 118 M1ass. 234; Alc.[ee v. Bidwdll, 74 Penn.
St. 218; Devlim v. Gcllayher, 6 Daly, 494; Corwell v. Pailroad, 38 Iowa, 120.
It is contended that it was the duty of O'Brien, the man
stationed at the drum, to watch the rope and see that the turns
did not come out, or if they did, to put them in again. Conceding, for the purpose of the argument, that such was the
case, then we contend that he represented the master, as it was
the master's duty to keep the rope in repair, a duty which could
not be delegated to any servant of any rank or grade so as to
exonerate the master. iVorthern,Paefie Railroadv. fferbert.
116 U. S. 642; Slianny v. A,-,M8coggim .ifills, 66 Maine, 420:
.Fudler v.Jvewett, 80 N. Y. 46 ; Sheelaw v. Railroad,91 N. Y.
334.
Where the master furnishes defectivi or inadequate machinery for use in the prosecution of his business, he is not excused
by the negligence of a servant in using the machinery, from
liability to a co-servant, which could not have 'happened had
the machinery been suitable for the use to which it was applied. Grand Trunk ]?ailway v. Camming, 106 U. S. 700;
Cone v. Railroad, 81 N. Y. 206; L'llie v. Riailroad,95 N. Y.
546; Stringtam v. Stewart, 100 N. Y. 516.

