OCTOBER TERMH,

1886.,

Opinion of the Court.

IVINSON v. HUTTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF WYOMING.

Argued December 2, 186. - Decided January 10, 1887.
On a finding in the court below (1) that certain parol testimony is inadmissi, ble because it tends to vary, explain, contradict or qualify a written
instrument discharging a mortgage; and (2) that if admitted it was not
sufficient to prove any qualification or modiflcatibn of the discharge, it is immaterial in this court whether the court below was right in
holding that the exception taken there to the parol evidence was error.

This was a suit to foreclose a mortgage. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
.Ir. Sa
appellant.
.r.

,el &ellabarger and .b . Jeremiah .X. Wilson for

W. T. Coret for appellees.

MI. JUsTIcE

MLLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Wyoming. The suit was brought by Edward Ivinson, the
sppellant, in the District Court of the Second Judicial District
of that
to foreclose a mortgage on certain real estate,
Imade toTerritory,
him by Charles H. Hutton. To the bill Joseph
M.
Carey and R. Davis Carey are made defendants, upon an allegation that they claim some interest in the property. The
defendants made a joint answer, in which they all set up a full
release of the mortgage and satisfaction of the debt by Ivinson
before the defendants Carey obtained their interest in the
property; and whether this be true or not is the only point in
the case.
It is not denied that when the defendants, the Careys, were
about to let Hutton have ten thousand dollars on this land, and
take absolute deeds of conveyance for it, they required that

IVINSON v. HUTTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the title to it should be made clear and relieved of Ivinson's
mortgage. Thereupon Ivinson made an entry on the margin
of the record of the mortgage, as follows:
"I hereby acknowledge satisfaction in full of the debt for
which this mortgage was given to secure, and hereby discharge
and cancel the same, this sixth day of October, 1877.

"E. rM-S0N.

"Attest: J. W. ML[ rauir, Register of Deeds."
The Suprem,e Court of the Territory, from which this appeal
is taken, made a finding of facts by which we are to be governed in the decision of this appeal. From this finding it
appears that in April, 1873, Hutton made his 1romissory note
to Edward Ivinson for $13,582.54, with interest, and that on
the same day he executed the mortgage which is the foundation of this foreclosure suit to secure the payment of the note:
Subsequent to this, Ivinson asserted that a mistake had been
made in computing the balance due him in the settlement on.
which the note and mortgage were given, and that they should
have been for $17,618.66, instead of the sum actually put in
the mortgage and note, making a difference of $4036.12.
Ivinson broughta suit to correct this mistake, which finally
came to the Supreme Court of the United States, where he
prevailed, obtaining a decree for the correction of the mistake
in the note and mortgage. These proceedings lasted from'
August, 1873, to March, 1879.
Pending this controversy, however, Ivinson and Hutton
made a written agreement to adjust their differences, other
than this controversy, but it was expressly agreed that the controversy, then pending in this court, was left out of the settlement by the following language: "Provided always, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed in any wise to
affect the rights of the parties hereto in said suit between them
now depending in the Supreme Court of the United States."
This agreement was made on the 31st of 'May, 1877, and is
marked Exhibit D in the record before us. On the 6th day of
October, 1877, Ivinson, Hutton, and Joseph M. Carey were at

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the court-house in Laramie City, for the purpose of concluding
a loan of ten thousand dollars, which Carey Was about to make
on.behalf of himself and brother to Hutton, to enable him to
pay his debts, including a judgment in favor of Creighton
against Ivinson and Hutton, amounting to nearly six thousand
dollars. "This loan was to be secured by real estate, part of
which was covered by Ivinson's mortgage. Before -paying
over the money to Hutton, Carey required of Ivinson and
Hutton, that Hutton's property should be released from all
incumbrances, and Ivinson entered on the margin of the record
of his mortgage the discharge which we have already transcribed.
The court then further finds as follows:
"That said discharge was not made in accordance or in pursuance of the agreement of the 31st of May, A.D. 187-7, above
recited, marked Exhibit D, but was an absolute, unqualified
release and cancellation of the mortgage. The court further
finds that the value of the property mortgaged was not less
than twenty thousand dollars.
'c4th. On the trial of the case in the District Court the
testimony of eight witnesses, to wit: Edward Ivinson, M. C.
Brown, J. 11. Carey, Charles H. Hutton, Stephen W. Downey,
Walter Sinclair, H. B. Rumsey, and J. W. Blak6, which had
been taken before J. W. Aeldrum, master in chancery, was
read in evidence. To so much of said evidence as was intended to vary, explain, or contradict or qualify the entry of
the discharge on the margin of the record of the mortgage by
Ivinson the defendant excepted as incompetent. This court
holds that said exception was well taken, and that parol evidence was not competent for that purpose or to prove that the
discharge was made in accordance with Exhibit D.
"5th. But the court further holds, that if said parol testimony was properly admitted for said purpose, that it is not
gufficient, that it does not prove any qualification or modification of the discharge as. entered on the iecord, nor that aid
.discharge was made in accordance with the agreement of the
31st of Mlay, marked Exhibit D.
"6th. This court makes no finding upon the question

MNSON v. HUTTON.
Opiiidn of the Court.

',whether the $4036.12 was paid by, Hutton at the time of the
discharge of the mortgage or at any other time, holding the
decision of that question unnecessary to the determination of
this suit."
On these findings the bill of complaint of Ivinson was dis-.
missed. The conveyances of the property in,controversy,
which were made by-Hutton to the Careys, are absolute deeds
on their face, and both the Careys and Hutton insisted in their
answer that the note and mortgage were absolutely discharged
and satisfied according to the terms of the indorsement made
by Ivinson on the record of the mortgage. This is,
also the
finding of the Supreme Court of the Territory. The argu- ment used in opposition to this is, that the Suprenie Court
and the court below erred in rejecting the evidence mentioned
in the fourth finding of fact, and it is insisted that because of
the error in this respect the entire decree "should be reversed.
But, in point of fact, this testimony was read in evidence in
the lower court, notwithstanding the objection of the plaintiff,
and was considered for what it may possibly be worth also in
the Supreme Court; for that court,, in its fifth finding, says,
that, if said testimony was properly admitted for the purpose,
claimed, it is not sufficient, and does not prove any qualificatioti or modification of the discharge as -entered on the
record, nor that said discharge was made subject to the -agreement of the 31st of May, marked Exhibit D. It will be seen
that the controversy mainly hinged upon the question whether
the discharge on the margin of the record of the mortgage
made by Ivinson was made subject to this written agreement
with Hutton, namely, that the controversy concerning the
$4036.12 involved in the suit then pending in the United
States Supreme Court was excepted out of the adjustment of
their differences, evidenced by Exhibit D, and that this question should be governed by the final decision of that suit.
On this issue the court distinctly finds, that said discharge
was not made in accordance with or in, pursuance of that
agreement, but was an absolute and unqualified release and
cancellation of the mortgage, and that, if said parol testimony
was p~operly admitted, it does not prove, that the discharge

