BARRELL v. TILTON.
Statement of Facts.

scribed in the specification, to cause the air to paus "down
into the top part of the vessel A, and thence up through the
hot-air cylinder and its chimneys." We are of opinion that
the first claim of the plaintiff's patent must be confined to the
use of a perforated top-plate to the cylinder having the functions and mode of operation set forth in the specification, and,
that, as the defendants do not have such a perforated topplate, or any equivalent for it, they do not infringe.
Decree aflrmed.

BARRELL v. TILTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued December 6,1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

In Oregon there is no sound reason why a married woman, in possession
with her husband of property which rightfully belongs to another, may
not be jointly sued with him for its recovery.
A constitutional provision that "the property and possessory rights of
every married woman . . . shall not be subject to the debts'or contracts of the husband" does not control her voluntary disposal of it,
and in the absence of other restrictions she may mortgage it to secure
the payment of a debt owing from the husband. In this case that question is not open to contention.
A court has control over its judgments during the term at which they are
rendered, and may change their form to suit the purposes of justice;
and though it would be more orderly in the second to refer to the first,
and to explain the changes, it is not essential to do so if a comparison of
the two judgments or decrees discloses the changes or modifications
made.

This was an action for the possession of a tract of land containing thirteen acres and a quarter of an acre in Multnomah
County, Oregon. The plaintiff was a citizen of New York,
and the defendants are citizens of Oregon. In the complaint
they were alleged to be husband and wife, though they were
not sued as such, and no averment founded ftpon that relationship was made; they were stied simply as parties in occupation of the premises.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

The complaint alleged that the plaintiff- was the owner in
fee of the land and lawfully entitled to its possession, describing it; that the defendants were in its possession and wrongfully withheld it from him; and that the property was of the
value of $13,000.
The defendant, Colburn Darrell, answered- the complaint,
setting up that the plaintiff deraigned title through a conveyance from William S. Ladd and wife, citizens of Oregon, bearing date oi, the 28th day of September, 1882, which was executed collusively, with the sole intent of giving the Federal
court jurisdiction of the action, and with the understanding
that at some future time the land or its proceeds should be
reconveyed to them. The defendant further answered, that
he defended only for two acres and three eighths of an acre of
the land, and as to that he denied the ownership of the plaintiff or that the plaintiff had any right to the possession thereof,
and alleged that he was the owner himself and entitled to its
possession ; that as to the other part of the tract described in
the complaint, consisting of eleven acre-s, he was merely a tenant of Aurelia J. Darrell. The answer also set up that the
plaintiff deraigned title through an instrument purporting to
be a conveyance absolute, executed by the defendants to Ladd,
bearing date on the 18th of January, 1S77, and that such conveyance was intended as a mortgage to secure the payment to
him of $3850, with interest, which sum the defendant was
ready and willing to pay.
The defendant, Aurelia J. Darrell, demurred to the complaint, on the ground that, as the wife of Colburn Darrell, she
was improperly joined with him in the action; and that the
complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, because, she being sued as the wife of her codefendant,
therw were no allegations in the complaint of a cause of action
for which she, as such, was responsible.
The court overruled the demurrer, and Aurelia answered,
setting up, as in the answer of ColbArn Darrell, the collusive
character of the conveyance of Ladd and wife to the plaintiff
on the 28th of September, 1S82, under which he asserted title
to the -premises; and further, that she defended merely for

BARRELL v. TILTON.
Statement of Facts.

eleven acres, as to which she denied the ownership of the
plaintiff, or his right of possession, and alleged that she was
the owner herself and rightfully entitled to its possession.
She also set up, as in Colburn Barrell's answer, the conveyance by the defendants to Ladd, through whom the plaintiff
claimed the eleven acres, dated January 18, 187T, and averred
that such conveyance was intended as a mortgage on her separate estate as security for the payment of the sum owed by
her husband to Ladd, with interest thereon.
To these answers the plaintiff replied, traversing their material averments, except that he admitted that the conveyance
of the defendants to Ladd on the 18th of January, 1877, was
intended as a mortgage to secure the payment of a debt by
Colburn Barrell to him, and stated that in December, 1879, he
instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of Oregon for Multnomah
County against the defendants, for the purpose of having that
conveyance declared to be a mortgage, and for a decree foreclosing the same, and for a sale of the premises; that in that
suit the defendants appeared and defended, setting up all the
facts contained in their separate answers in this case; that
such proceedings were had therein that, on the 19th of March,
1880, a final decree was rendered, declaring the conveyance to
be a mortgage, and that its condition had been broken, and
decreeing that the property be sold, and that the defendants
and all persons claiming under them be barred and foreclosed
of all right and interest in it; that under this decree the property was sold bj the sheriff of Multnomah County after due
advertisement, and in the manner directed, and at such sale
William S. Ladd became the pu'chaser; that the sale was confirmed, and, on the 25th of Augmst, 1880, the sheriff executed
a deed of the property to him; that no part of the property
had been redeemed, and that no appeal had been taken from
the decree, which remained unreversed, and that the plaintiff
was the immediate grantee of Ladd.
On the trial of the case, the plaintiff introduced the conveyance executed by the defendants to William S. Ladd, of the
property described in the complaint. dated the 18th of January, 1877, and a certified transcript of the record of the suit

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

brought by him against them in the state court to have the
conveyance adjudged to be a mortgage,,and for its foreclosure,
and the sale of the premises, showing the decree and order for
the sale, and the confirmation of the sale. The plaintiff also
introduced -the conveyance by the sheriff to William S. Ladd,
bearing date on the 25th of August, 1880, and also a deed of
the premises by Ladd and wife to the plaintiff on the 28th of
September, 1882. No evidence was offered as to the alleged.
collusive purpose in the execution of this deed, to give the
Federal court jurisdiction of the action.
The transcript of the record of the suit showed what purported to be a final decree, entered on the 19th of March, 1880,
and subsequently a second decree, also purporting to be a final
decree, entered on the 23d of March, 1880. The two decrees
differed only in the manner in which the property to be sold
was described. The difference arose in this way. At the
request of counsel, it was referred to a referee to examine and
report upon the propriety of offering the property for sale in
parcels, so as to enhance the proceeds therefrom. The referee
reported a scheme dividing the prdperty into parcels, and the
court.directed it to be sold accordingly, upon the condition
that, after it had been sold in parcels, if any one should bid
more for it as a whole, it should be sold to him. In the first
decree the metes and bounds of the seven parcels are given
separately. In the second, the metes and bounds of the several parcels are given separately, and of the whole as one tract.
The process under which the sale was made *as a copy of the
last decree. When the transcript was offered in evidence, counsel objected to its admissibility, on the ground that the record
showed that the final decree was made and entered 6n *the
19th of March, 1880, and that the court had no jurisdiction to
enter the second decree, under which the sale was made. The
court overruled the objection, and the defendants excepted.
The defendants then offered in evidence a copy of the judgment lien docket of the state Circuit Court, showing that the
decree was docketed on the 19th of Iarch, 1880. No other
evidence having been produced, the court instructed the jury
that the sheriff's deed conveyed the estate of the defendants to

BARRELL v. TILTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the grantee therein, William S. Ladd, and that the conveyance
from Ladd and wife to the plaintiff vested the estate in him,
and, therefore, that the verdict must be for the plaintiff. To
this instruction counsel excepted. The jury accordingly gave
a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which judgment was entered;
and to review that judgment the defendants brought the case
here on a writ of error.
3P1>. IW. TV Upton for plaintiff in error, (Yr. IF -W. Chaqpinan was with him on his brief,) cited: Bibb v. P0pe, 43 Ala.
190; C(leman v. Smith, 55 Ala. 368; Conrad v. e Blank-, 29
La. Ann. 123; FaxwortA v. 3fagree, 44 Mississippi, 430;
Baines v. Barbddge, 15 La. Ann. 628; Theriet v. Voorkies,
12 La. Ann. 852; In ie Boyd, 4 Sawyer, 262.
X31.Samuel Sliellabarger and X7. Jerermiah-J. Wilson, for
defendant in error, cited: IfTite v. Crow, 110 U. S. 183;
Booth v. Tiernan, 109 U. S. 205; Packet Co. v. Cloughi, 20
"'all. 528; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255; Thompson
-v. First il'ational Bank, Ill U. S. 529; Jrones v. Dove, I
Oregon, 467; United States v. Basset, 9 Wall. 38; Goddarrd
v. Ordway, 101 U. S. 745; XYapp v. E0lng, 6 Oregon, 243.
Mm. JsTIcE FIELD, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Of the numerous points made by the defendants below, the
plaintiffs in error here, only three require notice. The others
are either immaterial or unsupported by the record. The
three are these:
lst. The ruling of the court on the demurrer of Aurelia to
the complaint;
2d. The ruling of the court that the decree of the state
court was conclusive as to the right of Aurel'ia to mortgage
die property for thd debt of her husband; and
3d. The ruling sustaining the validity of the sale under the
decree of the state court, entered on the 23d of March, 1880.
1. The objection taken by the demurrer of Aurelia is, that,
VOL. oxx--1

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

being the wif& of Colburn Darrell, she cannof be joined with
him as a codefendant in an action for the possession of real

property, of which both are alleged to be in the occupation.
.it is founded on the theory.that, by the common law, her
identity is so merged in his that she cannot have possession of
such property independently of him. If there be any such
rule of the common law, upon which we affirm -nothing, it has
been abolished in Oregon. By a statute of that state, approved on the 21st of October, 1880, all laws which impose or
recognize any civil disabilities of the wife, not imposed or recognized as to the husband, were repealed, except that the right
to vote and hold office was not conferred upon her. And "for
any unjust usurpation of her property or- natural rights," she'
was declared to have the same right to appeal to the courts of
law and equity for redress that the husband has. In that
state she can hold property jointly with him, or separately
from him. There would seem, therefore, to be no sound reason why, if in possession with him of property which rightfully belongs to another, she may not be jointly sued with him
for its recovery. In the present case she claiined the larger
part of the land in controversy as her separate property.
2. The second objection that the decree of the state court
in the suit by Ladd against the defendants does not bar the
right of Aurelia to .the property, is founded upon her supposed inability to mortgage her property to secure a debt of
her husband under section five of article- XV of the state
Constitution, which declares "that the property and possessory rights of every married woman at the time of marriage,
or afterwards acquired by gift, devise or inheritance, shall not
be subject to the debts or contracts of the husband." Phit
that clause merely preserves the property of the wife from its
compulsory subjection to his debts or contracts. It was not
designed to control her voluntary disposal of -it, and in the
absence of other restrictions she could mortgage it to secure
the payment of a debt owing by him.
The objection, however, is entirely disposed of by the decree
in the state court. The rights of the parties under the conveyance of the defcndants to Ladd of January 17, 1877, were

