OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
. Syllabus.

lands, to the lumber company to cut the logs in question, and
the alleged knowledge of the plaintiff that it was acting upon
the license. The license was proved, but the court held that
there was no evidence of the plaintiff's knowledge of it. The
instruction requested was as follows:
"If the jury believe that the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company gave a license to the Knife Falls Lumber Company
to cut logs upon the lands described in the complaint, while
the said railroad company was the owner of the said lands,
and that the said lumber company cut the logs described inthe comaplaint, acting under such license, and that the plaintiff
knew of the existence of such license, and knew that the said
lumber company was cutting such logs, acting under the said
license, and made no objection to such cutting; in such case,
the jury would be at liberty to find that the said cutting was
by the license and permission of 'the plaintiff, and if the jury
does so find, it should find a verdict for the defendant."
The instruction was properly refused for the want of evidence of the plaintiff's knowledge of the license. And by
the conveyance of the lands to the plaintiff the license from
the original owner was necessarily terminated.
Judgment afjfrmed.
CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY
v. MoLAUGHLIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISRICT OF IOWA.
Argued November 29, 30, 1836. -Decided December 20,1886.

Defendant in error was in the employ of plaintiff in error as a car repairer.
While mounted at a side track upon a ladder which rested against a car
that he was repairing by order of his immediate superior, lie was thrown
from the ladder by reason of the car being struck by a switching engine
and car, and was seriously injured. He brought a suit against the Railway Company under § 1307, Code of Iowa of 1873. The Railway Company defended upon the grounds: (1) that there was no negligence on
the part of its employ"s which entailed responsibility on the company;
(2) that there was contributory negligence oil the part of the plaintiff

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY v. McLAUGHLIN.

567

Statement of Facts.
below. The case was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict of
515,000 for plaintiff below, and judgment was entered on'the verdict.
This court, on the case made by the record in error, affirms that judgment by a divided court.

It was enacted in § 1307 of the Code of Iowa of 1873 that:
"Every corporation operating a railway shall be liable for
all damages sustained by any person, including employ6s of
such corporation, in consequence of the neglect of agents, or
by any mismanagement of the engineers or other employ~s
of the corporation, and in consequence of the wilful wrongs,
whether of commission or omission of such agents, engineers,
or other employCs, when such wrongs are in any manner connected with the use and operation of any railway on or about
which they shall be employed, and no contract which restricts
such liability shall be legal or binding."
In March, 1878, the testator of the defendant in error commenced this suit against plaintiff in error in the Circuit Court
of Clinton County, Iowa. The petition set forth as follows:
"The plaintiff complains of the defendant, The Chicago and
Northwestern r~ailroad Company, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Illinois, and doing
business in the State of Iowa, being engaged in operating a
railroad in said last named State, moving by steam power cars
containing passengers and goods over the said railroad; that
the plaintiff, on the 18th of October, 1877, in the city of
Clinton, State of Iowa, was in the employment ot defendant
as a car repairer of defendant's said cars, and whilst at said
date and in said city plaintiff was engaged in the performance
of his duty repairing one of defendant's cars which was standing on one of defendant's side tracks, the plaintiff standing at
a height of about nine feet from the ground on a ladder which
was inclined against said car, the plaintiff was then and there,
through the carelessness,' negligence, and default of said
defendant and its servants thrown violently to the ground,
breaking the right leg 6f plaintiff and inflicting upon him
other great and permanent injuries, to the damage of plaintiff
in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars. The plaintiff therefore
demands judgment against the said defendant for the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars, with interest and costs."

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

On the petition of defendant the action was removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States; and in that court,
the plaintiff filed the following amendment to his petition:
"1Now comes plaintiff and, by leave of court first had, amends
his original petition and amendment thereto, heretofore filed
herein as follows, viz.:
"1. He states that while properly and not-negligently performing the service stated in said original petition, his position
became suddenly dangerous by reason of the shifting of certain
switches and running an engine and car upon the track where
he was working.
"That the switchman performing said service of shifting
said switches saw plaintiff in his position, which became dangerous by said acts, 'and although plaintiff was thereby placed
in imminent peril thereby, and said switchman could easily
have prevented a collision and injury to plaintiff by the exercise of ordinary care and caution, in either apprising plaintiff
of the sudden approach of said engine or by turning the brake
upon said car, or causing the engineer in charge of said engine
to stop the same, he failed so to do, but carelessly, negligently,
and heedlessly allowed said collision and injury to take place
to plaintiff's great injury.
"2. That the fireman upon said engine saw plaintiff in said
exposed position, and, after the danger and peril of plaintiff's
life and limbs were well known to him, he allowed said collision to take place, although he could, by the exercise of ordinary care, 'have .prevented it by notifying the engineer that
plaintiff was in danger, but that he carelessly, negligently,
and with a total disregard for plaintiff's safety, neglected and
failed to impart said notice, and plaintiff was injured thereby.
"3. That the engineer in charge of said engine thrown in
and upon said track as aforesaid, by reason of plaintiff's perilous position, was ordered to stop his said engine, and that he
could easily have obeyed said instruction, but disregarding
said order to stop and carelessly and heedlessly refusing to
inquire into the cause of such order, but with a negligent and
total disregard of consequences, hurried said engine on to a
collision, as stated in plaintiff's original petition.

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY Iv. McLAUGHLIN.

569

Statement of Facts.

"4. 'That the facts rendering plaintiff's position perilous by
reason of the movements of said switches and car and'engine
were to plaintiff entirely unknown, although due care and
caution was exercised by him.
"Wherefore plaintiff prays judgment as heretofore."
To this amended petition defendant made the following
answer:

"For answer to plaintiff's petition herein as amended.
defendant states-I I. It denies each and every allegation in
said petition and amendment contained. i. The plaintiff
was guilty of negligence, which contributed to the injury
complained of in this: He failed to notice or listen for the
approach of engines or other cars, and failed to get down froma
the ladder whereon he stood when the engine and car which.
caused the injury approached the line of cars whereon plaintiff was at work, in plain sight of plaintiff, with the bell ringing to warn all persons of their coming.'
The cause was tried before a jury with verdict for plaintiff
in the sum of $15,000, and judgment was entered on the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The defendant
in error died after the cause was docketed here, and his executor appeared and defended the suit.
The exceptions brought up all the evidence. It was in some
respects conflicting. Counsel for plaintiff in error filed with
their brief a statement of the facts which they regarded as
established. Counsel for defendants in error referring to thi
statement, filed with their brief a statement of ' omitted and
material facts in the interest of defendant in error." From
the two statements the following facts appear to be substantially agreed to by both parties:
Clinton, Iowa, is a division station on the railway of plaintiff in error. All freight trains coming from east or west are
here stopped and retrained. The tracks of the main line and
sidings run east and west.
Near the west end of the yard, and about nine feet north
of the main line, is a track some fifteen hundred feet long,
known as "number two track," used exclusively for way-cars.
Just north of this way-car track is another side track, known

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

as "track number three." There is a cut-off track from the
main line, by which tracks numbers two and three are reached
through switches.
Whenever a freight train comes into Clinton from the east
or west, the way-car is taken off by a switch engine, and put
on this track number two, and when any freight train is to go
out either east or west, a switch engine goes on to track number. two to get a way-car for such out-going train. All waycars going or coming from the west are used "first in first
out," while those going and coming from the east had "regular run" way-cars. A switch engine went on to number two
track about twenty times during each day time, to put away
or to get a way-car. Two switch engines were used in the
.yard in the day time, and three during the night time. There
were from twenty to thirty trains each way per day, and the
switch engines in the yard kept up a clatter and constant ringing of bells.
O'Neil was a coach-builder, or car carpenter, and worked
for the railway company in its shops at Clinton from 1865 to
1871, except about four years, during which latter time he was
away working mostly for the officers of the company. The shop
where he worked was situated about eight rods from the main
line, at the east end of the yard, where the volume and character of the traffic could be seen by him. In the performance of his duty he was required to work on or about the
trains. For about a year before his injury he had been accustomed to go upon the way-car track number two, on an average of once a week to do repairs, such as putting in lights of
glass broken out of way-car windows, fixing door locks, putting on and repairing lamp-brackets, and the like. At the
time of the injury he was acting under the direct order and
instruction of his immediate superior.
About 10 o'clock in the morning of a clear, pleasant day in
October, 1877, O'Neil, by direction of the foreman, went to
track number two, to do some repairs on way-cars, and ailong
other things, to take off some old lhmp-brackets and put on
new ones. After doing some work, O'Neil put his ladder up
on the south side of a way-car on number two track. There

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY v. MQLAUGHLIN.

571

Statement of Facts.

were seven or eight way-cars on' this track -two east of the
one on which he was working, and the rest west of it. Ther6
was a space of a few feet between those to the west and the
three.
other
These way-cars were ten to twelve feet high, and the ladder
about the same length. Way-cars project out over the. track
about two feet, and allowing for the proper slant, the foot of
O'Neil's ladder rested near the ends of the ties on the north
side of the main line.
The distance from the ladder where O'INeil was, to the
switch on the cut-off east, was about one hundred and seventyfive feet, and to the switch where the cut-off joins the main
line, about two hundred and fifty feet. There were two cars
just east of the one on which O'Neil's ladder rested. All
three were close together; but whether coupled or not is
unknown. These switches from the main line to the cut-off and
to number two track were somewhat worn, and made considerable noise when an engine passed over them.
O'Neil went up the ladder with a brace screw-driver, 'a
hammer, and a new lamp-bracket. He was not furnished with
a second' man as lookout; but he could have heard the ringing of the engine bell if he had been listening. He put the new
lamp-bracket on top of the car, and stepped down a step or two
to take off the old bracket. This was done by taking out two
screws with his brace screw-driver, and bieaking off two screws
with a hammer. Just before the accident, be was breaking
off screws which held the lamp-bracket, with a hammer, with
his face within four or five inches of the car. Just as this
work was finished, which occupied aoout two minutes according to the best judgment of O'Neil, the car on which his ladder
rested received a shock which threw him violently from his
ladder, and he struck on the tie, or the iron rail of the main
line, breaking his femur in two places, and inflicting very
severe and permanent injuries which totally disabled him,
and shortened his life. At the time of the injfiry he was
facing westwardly, while the engine which' caused the injury
came from the east. Before he exposed himself, in the
performance of his duty, he found, from examination of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

the switches, that four switches must be turned, east of him,
before a car could enter the track upon which he was working,
anud the employ~s so turning such switches could plainly see
him on the ladder. He could not see the nearest switch, the
turning of which threw the car and engine on to the track,
causing the injury, because the lever was on the north side
and obscured by standing cars.
The accident happened in this way: Switch-engineer Schumaker and Fireman Riggs came off a side track south of the
main line, with the engine headed west, and with a way-car
ahead of the engine. Switchmen Wilde and Ellenwood accompanied them on foot ; Wilde on the south side of the track and
Ellenwood on the north side of it. The bell of the engine was
ringing. Just what side track they came from none of them
remember, but it was some side track which came on to the
main line east of the switch which leads from the main line
to the cut-off, and to number two way-car track. The object
of the switchmen was to go in on way-car track number two',
to get a way-car for the use of some out-going train. The
situation was such that the engineer, when on the main
line east of the cut-off switch could have seen O'Neil on the
ladder if he had looked; but he was watching his switches
ahead of him, and did not see O'Neil at all. After his engine
passed off the main line on to the'cut-off, and thence on to
track number two, the engineer could not have seen O'Neil if
he had looked, because he was on the north side of his engine,
and the way-car attached to the front of his engine wholly
obstructed his view. Wilde saw O'Neil on the ladder at 0, distance from the point where the striking cars caused the injury;
"thought he would get down; didn't pay much attention to it."
Ellenwood could not 8ee O'Neil on the ladder at all.
Thae fireman, Riggs, on the south side, a part of whose duty
it was to look out for danger, saw O'Neil for a distance of from
one hundred and twenty to one hundred and fifty feet before
reaching the point of injury, and watched him, knowing that
if he did not get down from the ladder he would be injured,
and knowing, or believing, that he was working. He did not
speak to the engineer of the fact, but, shortly before the collision

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY v. McLAUGHLIN.

573

Statement of Facts.

he shouted "Whoa!." in an unusually sharp tone which was
the word he. always used when he wanted the engine to stop
quickly. Schumaker at once obeyed Rigg-s' signal which he
knew~meant "stop," by putting his lever in the back motion.
He did not know why he was ordered to stop, but did know that
it had no reference to the contemplated coupling, for he was
looking out for that himself. He did not inquire why he was
ordered to stop. He had already shut off steam from his
engine. At this time the engine was moving four or five miles
per hour, and the reversal of the lever would have stopped the
engine and car before the car struck the standing cars, on one'.
of which O'Neil wa§. But when the cars were six to ten feet
apart, and the engine had practically come to a full stop, Switchman Ellenwood, who was on the north side of the way-car track,
ready to couple the way-car attached to the engine, to the
standing way-cars, seeing the cars were not going to come
together so that he could make the coupling, gave a signal and
called out to Schumaker to come ahead a little. Thereupon
Schumaker at once put the lever in the forward motion, and
instantly put it in the back motion again, because an instant
of forward steam he knew was enough to send the cirs together, which proved correct. The coupling was made, and
the accident to O'Neil happened.
The instant Riggs heard Ellenwood give the signal to come
ahead a little, he told Schumaker that there was a man on the
side of the car, but the same instant Schumaker had put his
lever forward and back again, the cars had struck and the
injury was complete.
When the engine and car came off the main line, they were
moving four to five miles per hour. They slacked up for the
switch at track number two, and started up again to four or
five miles per hour at the time Riggs gave the signal "Whoa."
The engine and car were in plain sight of O'Neil from the
time they came off the side track on the main line, until they
struck the standing cars on one of which he was at work; and
he admits that if he had been listening lie could have heard
the click of the engine coming over the switches, and could
have seen the engine while on his ladder by turning his head

OCTOBER TERM1,

1886.

Statement -of,Facts.

to the east, and could also have heard the ringing of the bell,
but he did not look nor listen while on the ladder at work.
The time which elapsed from the time the engine and waycar left the main line until the accident happened was probably twelve to fifteen seconds, and from the time Riggs gave
the signal "1Whoa," to the time of the accident, was probably
from three to five seconds.
After the evidence was in defendant asked the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"1. Conceding to all the testimony its greatest probative
force, it is not sufficient to warrant the jury in finding the
defendant or any. of its servants guilty of any negligence
whereby the plaintiff received his injuries.
''

2. The. undisputed and uncontradicted evidence shows

that the plaintiff was guilty of negligence'which directly contributed to his injury. You axe therefore instructed to find
for the defendant."
These requests were refused. Defendant excepted, and
made the refusal one of the assignments of error in this court,
Defendant also excepted to many passages in the charge to
the jury. In this court the giving of the following instructions
was assigned as error:
"4., Under the statute of the State of Iowa, every corpora'tion operating a railway is liable for all injuries caused to, and
the consequent damages sustained by, the employCs of such
corpoiation in consequence of the neglect of a co-employ6 in
the performance of his duty to the company; that is to say,
the negligence of an employ6 in the discharge of the duties of
his position in the employ of the company is deemed to be
the negligence of the corporation, ared will render the company liable for any injuries caused thereby to any of its other
emp]toy~s, unless the person injured is himself guilty also of
negligence contributing to the accident."
"14. It is claimed on part of the plaintiff that the switchman on the south side saw O'Neil's danger in time sufficient
to have averted the danger. On part of defendant it is claimed
that this switchman did not see O'Neil in time, and under
such circumstances as that it was his duty to either have

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY v. McLAUGHLIN.

575,

Statement of Facts.

stopped the engine or warned the plaintiff of the danger.
Has the plaintiff by a fair preponderance of evidence, satisfied
you that this switchman had knowledge of plaintiff's danger
in time sufficient to have averted the accident either by stopping the engine or through a warning to the engineer, or by
notifying plaintiff of the coming danger, so that he bould have
avoided the accident ? It is not sufficient for it now to appear,
that possibly the switchman might have done so if he had
known all the facts that are now made apparent. The true
inquiry is, was this switchman, acting under the light and
knowledge he then had, wanting in the exercise of ordinary
care in not stopping the engine, or in not notifying plaintiff
of his danger? Did he or not have knowledge of the danger
to which plaintiff was exposed in time sufficient to enable him
'by the use of ordinary care to have 'caused the engine to be
stopped, or to warn the plaintiff, so that he might have gotten down from the ladder before the cars came in contact'?"
"15. It is further claimed on behalf of plaintiff that the
fireman, Riggs, was negligent in not notifying the engineer
of the peril to which plaintiff was exposed. There is evidence
tending to show that Riggs saw the plaintiff upon the ladder
and knew of his position, and that there was danger of an
injury being caused to him if he did not get down before the
cars came in contact; that Riggs gave a signal to the engineer
to stop in time to prevent the cars coming into contact, which
signal the engineer obeyed by shutting off the steam and
reversing the engine. On part of plaintiff it is claimed that
Riggs should have notified the engineer of the necessity for
stopping the engine, namely, that there was a man in a dangerous position; and it is claimed that Riggs had time sufficient to have so done, so that the engineer could have prevented
the cars coming in contact. On the part of defendant it is
claimed that Riggs did all that could reasonably be expected
of him; that lie gave the proper sigmal to stop the engine, and
that in obedience thereto the engineer reversed his engine and
brought it nearly tc a stop, and then, befbre Riggs had time
to ascertain the necessity for any furthe action on his part,
the engineer, in obedience tn a signal from the switchman,

OCTOB.ER -TERM, '1886.
Statement of Facts.

which could not have been reasonably foreseen by Riggs, gave
a forward motion to the engine, and that it was beyond the
power of Riggs to again notify the engineer to stop in time to
prevent the accident."
"16. It was the duty of Riggs, if he saw the plaintiff was
in a dangerous position, and that there was risk of an accident
if the cars were brought into contact before plaintiff should
get down from the ladder, to take such action as was reasonably within his power to stop the engine and prevent the cars
from coming into contact. When human life or limbs are in
peril, ordinary prudence requires that all reasonable means
should be used by those who are aware of the danger, to avert
the same and avoid injury to the person 6xposed thereto.
Riggs himself testifies that he saw plaintiff upon the ladder,
knew that he was in a dangerous position if the'cars were
brought into contact, and saw, as the engine approached the
standing cars, that the plaintiff remained upon the ladder.
Under these circumstances, was or was it not his duty to notify
the engineer, who had control of the engine, of the nature of
the danger to be avoided, or was his duty discharged when he
gave the signal to stop by crying out ' Whoa' ? Did he or did
he not have sufficient time to give such information to the
engineer, if you find the same should have been given ? It is
for you to determine what ordinary prudence, when human
life and limb were in danger, required of Riggs under the
facts and circumstances known to him at that time, and
whether Riggs did or did not do all that ordinary prudence
required of him, and all that he had a fair opportunity to do,
in the exercise of ordinary care, in the brief time in which he
was required to think and act "
"17. It is further claimed on part of plaintiff that the engineer did not exercise ordinary care and prudence on his
part, in that, after receiving the signal to stop from the fireman, and after, in obedience thereto, reversing his engine and
bringing the same nearly to a stop, he then, in obedience to a
signal from the switchman on the north side of the track gave
a forward motion to the engine and brought the cars into
contact, without first ascertaining the reason why the signal

CHICAGO & N. W. RAILWAY. v. M LAUGHLIN.

571

Statement of Facts.

to stop was given by the fireman. On part of defendant,- it
is claimed that the switchman and fireman have a right to
signal the engineer, and that it is the duty of the latter to
obey such signals, and if the switchman gave the signal with6ut fault on his part, there would not be negligence on part
of engineer in obeying the signal thus given."
"18. That the engineer is bound to obey signals given by
the switchmen is doubtless true, as a general proposition, but
by this can only be meant that the engineer is bound to obey
if there is no good reason why he should not obey. Suppose
he received a signal from a switchman-to move forward when
he sees that if he does he will cause an accident, would it not
then be clearly his duty to disobey the signal? Suppose at
the instant he receives a signal from the switchiman to uxove
forward his fireman notifies him that there is a man on the
track in danger, and that he must stop. It cannot be doubted
that in such cases the engineer must disobey the signal from
the switchman. Take it in this case. Suppose the engineer
knew that the plaintiff was on the ladder, exposed to danger,
if the cars were brought into contact, and the switchman gave
the signal to move forward, would it be acting with reasonable
prudence to obey the signal, or would it not be clearly the
(luty of the engineer to disobey the same? But it is in evidence th t the engineer in this case did not know in fact that
the plaintiff was in danger. He had received a signal from
his fireman, on th left of his engine, requiring him to stop,
ad he obeyed it by shutting off steam and reversing his
engine. What inference did the engineer draw from the
signal given him by the fireman to stop? Did he or did he
not infer therefrom that there was some sufficient reason
known to the fireman why the engine should be stopped?
Was he not bound to so infer, and if he did, what was it his
duty to do when he received the signal from -the switchman
on the other side of the track to move forward? Did or did not
ordinary care and prudence require of him to ascertain from
his fireman the reason of the order to stop given by the fireman on his left, before he obeyed the order to move forward
given him by the switchman on his right? The engineer himVOL. cxix-37

OCTOIER TERM, 1886.
Statement of ]Facts.

self testifies that the signal ' whoa' given by the fireman was
given somewhat sharply, indicating the necessity for promptly
stopping the engine; and he further testifies that from the
.distance from the engine to the stationary cars he supposed
the order to stop was given by the fireman, not because the
cars were close enough for coupling, but for some other cause
or reason unknown to him, and that he started the engine
forward upon receiving the signal from the switchman without making any inquiry of the fireman whether he could safely
do so, or without inquiring why the fireman had ordered him
to stop the engine. In so doing, did or did not the engineer
exercise the care which ordinary prudence demanded of him?"
" 19. If, under the instructions given you, you find that
none of the employes of the company were guilty of negligence causing the accident, then your verdict must be for
defendant, and you need not consider any other of the questions submitted to you. If, however, you find that the
defendant was negligent in any of the particulars alleged
against it, and that such negligence was the immediate cause
of the injury to plaintiff, you will then consider whether the
defence of contributory negligence set up by the defendanthas been made out and sustained by a fair preponderance of
the evidence, the burden of the issue in this respect being upon
the defendant; or, in.other words, in order to defeat plaintiff's
recovery on the ground of contributory negligence on his part,
you must be fully satisfied from the evidence, that plaintiff
was guilty of negligence which proximately contributed to the"
injury complained of."
"20. It was the duty of the plaintiff, when he was engaged
in the work at which he was put by the defendant, to exercise
ordinary care on his part to protect himself from danger. He
knew when he undertook the repairs ,on the car in question
that it stood upon a track where engines might possibly come,
and he was bound to the exercise of all the care and watchfalness which an ordinarily prudent man would use under the
same circumstances."
"121. Extraordinary care was not required of him. He was
expected to do the work that he was sent to attend to, and

CHICAGO v. N., W. RAILWAY" v..cLAUGILR

N.

519

Statement of Facts.

he could only be required to exercise the care and watchfulness
that were compatible with the discharge of hig duty to the
company. Plaintiff testifies that he did not see or hear the
engine when it was approaching, and it is claimed that his
failure to notice its approach is proof of his negligence, on the
theory that if he had kept his senses on the alert he would
either have seen or heard the engine in time to have avoided
the accident. On the part of plaintiff it is claimed that his
failure to notice the approach of the engine was due to the
fact that the work he was engaged in doing so occupied his
attention that without fault upon his part, he failed to notice
the coming of the engine, either by sight or sound. You will
consider all the evidence introduced in the case tending, to
show what work the plaintiff was required to do' the pbsitioli
he occupied upon the side of the car, the direction in which
his face was turned whilst at work upon the ladder, the character of the work upon which he was actually engaged, and
the demands, if any, which this work made upon his attention,
the distance from where the plaintiff was at work to the point
where the engine came upon track No. 2, the number of cars,
if any, between that upon "which.plaintiff was at work, and
the approaching engine, and all facts shown by the evidence
adduced by either party which tend to throw light upon the
question - and from this evidence, you will determine whether
the defence of contributory negligence, as alleged by the defendant, has been established.by a fair preponderance of evidence, the burden of establishing the same being, as already
stated, upon the defendant."
"22. If the evidence, under the instructions given you, fails
to establish the fact that the plaintiff was wanting in the
exercise of proper care and watchfulness whilst engaged in
repairing the way-car of defendant, then the defence of contributory negligence is not made out, and on this issue, you
should then find for plaintiff; but, on the other hand, if you
find that the failure of plaintiff to notice the approach of the
engine was due to a want of ordinary care and watchfulness
on part of plaintiff, you will then consider and determine
whether the defendant had knowledge of the dangerous posi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

'tion of plaintiff and of his failure to notice the approach of
the engine in time to have avoided the injury to plaintiff by
the exercise of reasonable care on its part, the rule of law being
that, although the plaintiff, may have negligently exposed
himself to an injury,, yet if the defendant, after discovering
the exposed situation and danger negligently incurred by the
plaintiff, can, by the exercise of reasonable care on its part,
prevent anydnjury to plaintiff, it is bound so to do, and a failure to exercise such reasonable care, after knowledge of the
danger to which plaintiff may be exposed, will render the
defendant liable for a resulting injury, notwithstanding the
fact that plaintiff may have been in the first instance, negligent on his part. Under such circumstances, plaintiff's negligence is not deemed to be a proximate cause of the injury.
If then, you find from the evidence that the plaintiff, through
his failure to notice the approach of the, engine in time to get
doin from his exposed situation on the side of- the way-car,
was guilty of negligence contributing to the causing of the
injury complained of, then your verdict must be for the defendant, unless you further find that, after discovering the
fact that plaintiff was atwork upon the way-car in such a manner as to expose him to danger in case the cars were brought
into contact, the defendant could, by the exercise of proper
care, have prevented the accident, and that having knowledge
of th6 danger to which plaintiff was exposed the defendant
failed to exercise proper care, thereby causing the accident, in
which case your verdict should be for the plaintiff. That is
to say, if you find from the evidence that the switchman Wilde,
and the fireman Riggs, or either of them, saw the plaintiff in
his -exposed position, and knew the danger to which he would
be exposed if the cars were brought into contact whilst the
plaintiff was on the ladder, then it was the duty of such
switchman or fireman, as already explained to you, to take
such reasonable means as were fairly within his power, to prevent bringing the cars into contact, after he knew that plaintiff had failed to notice the approach of the engine. If by the
use of such means on part of those in charge of the engine,
the accident could have been prevented, and you find that

