OUTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

the highest functions of an estoppel in passing, by mere operation of law, an after acquired estate, yet they will lose that
attribute when it appears that the grantor intended to cohvey
no greater estate than he was possessed of." WMite v,.Brocaw,
14 Ohio St. 339, 343; Adams v. Ross, 1 Vroom (30 N. J. L.)
.505, 509; Blan~7ardv. Brooks, 12 Pick. 47; Biown v. Jackson,
0 Wheat. 449, 452.
In the present case there is no ground for supposing that
the partiez to the deed had in contemplation anything more
than the supposed interest of Eliza M. O'Brien existing at that
date as derived under the deed from William Jenkins, Jr., of
Februaxy 1, 1878. The conclusion is that the covenant of
warranty relied upon does not have the effect claimed of enlarging the estate conveyed by including the subsequently
acquired title which passed to Eliza M. O'Brien by the deed
from Elizabeth O'Brien of May 11, 1878.
This disposes of all questions of substance arising upon the
record. We find no error in the proceedings and judgment of
the Circuit Court. Its judgment is accordingly
Afirmed.

WASHINGTON COUNTY v. SALLINGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
Argued November 10, 1886.-Decided November 29, 1886.

A court-house in North Carolina being destroyed by fire, the county commissioners rented a building on another site, about 200 yards distant
from the old site, to be used as a court-house; and after five years' occupancy purchased the building and paid for the same by issuing bonds of
the county to the seller. In an action on the bonds against the county;
Held, that the Act of the Legislature, of North Carolina of 1868, c. 20, relating to the removal of county buildings, does not apply to such a case.
The provisions contained -in the proviso in§ 5 of the Act of the Legislature
of North Carolina, of February 27, 1877, to establish'county governments,
apply only to commissioners to be chosen thereafter under the provisions
of that act.

WASHINGTON 'COUNTY v. SALLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

This wds an action at law to recover upon bonds issued by
the commissioners of Washington County, North Carolina; for
the purchase of a cour-house. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
A1r'. C.

. Busbee for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. Sarnuel F. Philifps for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE :L TAHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of this writ of error is to reverse a judg-ment
rendered against the plaintiff in error on five obligations in
writing, for $1000 each, of like tenor, as follows, to'wit:
" OFFICE OF THE BOAIRD OF COMUSSIONERS

OF THE COUTY OF WASHINGTON, N. C.
"No. 19.
"Twelve months aftur date, with interest from date at the
rate of six per centum per annum, the Board of Commissioners of Washington County promise to pay to Louis M.
Hornthal, or to his order, one thousand dollars, for value
received, and to secure indebtedness contracted for the necessary expenses of said county in the purchase of brick b uildig
for court-house.
"This first day of October, 1877.
"J. G. AUSBON, [SEAL.]
"Coairnan of the Board of Oonmisine'ra
of Wasdngtuon county.
"Countersigned:
"W. H. STUBBS,
"Register of Deeds and (lerk of said Board."

The plaintiff below was a, purchaser for value before due,.
and -without notice of any defence. His right to recover was.
denied on the ground that, under the circumst'nces, the Board
of Commissioners of Washington County had no authority of
law for maldng and issuing the obligations sued on.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that the court-house
of Washington County was destroyed by fire in the spring of
VOL. CiX-12

OCTOBER TERMi 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

18712; that in the following August the defendants, the County
Commissioners, rented the building for the lpurchase of which
the bonds sued on were afterwards issued, which is situated
about 200 yards from the court-house which was destroyed by
lire, in the town of Plymouth, and, before the succeeding fall
term'of the Superior Court, gave notice, by public advertiseinent for thirty days, declaring the -house so rented to be .the
public court-house of Washington County, and that courts
'were held continuously therein until the commencement of the
action.
The defendant offered in evidence a copy of the proceedings, as recorded, of a special meeting of the Board of County
Commissioners of Washington County, held on the first kfonday in October, 1877, at which the whole number of five were
present. The transcript of the proceedings of that meeting
-sets out a paper addressed to the Board of Commissioners of
Washington County, signed by eight justices of the peace,
requesting that body, at its next meeting, to contract "for the
purchase of the brick store and lot in Plymouth, lately' the
custom-house, for the use of the county of Washingtoq for a
court-house, paying for the same the bonds of the county,
bearing six per cent. interest, payable at one, two, three, four
and five years, with interest from date, at price of five thousand
dollars, or five bonds of one thousand dollars each, at the rate
of interest due as aforesaid, as we have here reconsidered.
"Plymouth, N. C., September 24th, 1877."
It was thereupon moved and seconded that a vote of the
'board be taken on the purchase of the brick building then
used as a court-house. Whereupon three votes were cast for
said purchase and one vote against it. The record of the
proceedings of the meeting then contains the following:
"Whereas the court-house of the county of Washington,
with the offices for the preservation of the public records and
for the transaction of the public business, were destroyed by
fire in the month of -May,1872, and it is absolutely necessary
that the county shall own a court-house, with suitable offices.
wherein the public records may be safely kept, and wherein the
officers of the court and the county can conveniently transact

WASHINGTON COUNTY v. SALLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

the public business, and this board declare that it is inexpedient longer to occupy a rented- house for these purposes; and
whereas Louis M. Hornthal, of the city of New" York, has
offered to sell to this Board of Commissioners for said county
the water part of lot numbered one hundred and forty nine;
situated in the town of Plymouth in said county, so numbered
upon the plat or plan of said town, known as the customhouse property, fronting fifty feet upon Water street and
extending to the river, including the wharf upon the same,
with-the brick house forty feet wide, sixty feet long, of three
-stories in height, with basement or cellar, at the price of five
thousand dollars, to be secured by the bonds of the Board of
Commissioners, payable in five equal annual instalments,
bearing interest at the rate of six per 6entum per annum, and
agree to execute title to the same upon payment of the purchase-money and interest, and to execute to this board a bond,
with surety, to perform this agreement; and whereas a
majority of the justices of said county have in writing directed
this Board of County Commissioners to accept the offer of
the said L. M. Hornthal, and to make the purchase of said
property upon the terms named:
"It is ordered by this board, a majority of said justices concurring, that James G. Ausbon, chairman of this board, contract with the said L. M. Hotnthal, through his agent, L. H.
Hornthal, for the purchase of said property; .that he take from
the said L. M. Hornthal his bond, with .surety as above provided, and that he execute, as chairman of this board, five.
bonds, each for one thousand dollars, payable severally 1st October, 1878, 1879, 1880, 1881, 1882, bearing six per centumn interest; that he cause the same to be countersigned by the clerk
of this board, who is the register of deeds for this county,
and that the seal of his office be attached. (Signed) J. G.
Ausbon, Chairman."
The transcript of the record of the proceedings of a special
meeting of the Board of County Commissioners, held on the
first Monday, November 5, 1877, was also put in evidence,
wherein it appeared as follows: J. G. Ausbon, as chairinan, reported in writing "that in obedience to the order of this board

oCTOBER TERMi,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

proposed on the 1st day of October, 1877, he accepted the bond,
of L. M. Hornthal, of the city of New York, in the penal sum
of ten thousand dollars, with justified surety, conditioned to
,execute title to this Board of County Commisioneis for the
brick store and lot in Plymouth, known as the custom-house,
upon payment of the purchase-money, and that under said or.ter he executed to him five bonds, each for one thousand dollars, dated the 1st day of October, 1877, bearing six per cent.
interest from date, payable at one, two, three, four, and five
years from date, which were countersigned by the clerk of this
toard, and sealed with the seal of his office as register of deeds,
and that he has caused the said title bond to be proved and
registered."
It was thereupon ordered that the report be adopted, and
that the action of the chairman in the premises be in all respects confirmed and approved. All the commissioners were
present at this meeting.
Upon this state of case, the court directed the jury that the
plaintiff was entitled to recover, and there was verdict and
judgment accordingly.
It is now contended by the plaintiff in error that the ruling
of the court, and the judgment rendered in pursuance thereof,
are erroneous on two grounds: First. That by the laws of
North Carolina in force at that time, and applicable to the
transaction, the commissioners of the county had no power to
change the site of the county court-house, unless authorized to
(to so by a unanimous vote of all the members of the board at
their September meeting, and after a notice of the proposed
.change, specifying the new site, published in a newspaper
printed in the county and posted in one or more public places
in every township in the county for three months next immediately preceding the annual meeting at which the final vote
on the proposed change was to be taken; and upon that point
he cites the Laws of North Carolina., 1868, c. 20, § 8, sub-see. 8 ;
and Battle's Revisal, 1813, c. 27, § 8, sub-see. 8. Second. That
the Board of Commissioners did not have the power to make
the contract in question, and the bonds in pursuance and execution of the same, "without the concurrence of a majority

WASHINGTON COUNTY v. SALLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the justices of the peace sitting with them," in pursuance of
§ 5 of the Laws of North Carolina of 1876-1877, c. 141.
The statute of North Carolina referred to in support of the
first assignment of error is the Act of 1868, c. 20. It provides for the organization and government of counties, and
enacts that every county is a body politic and corporate, and
has the powers specified by statute or necessarily implied in
such a body, which can only be exercised by the Board of
Commissioners or in pursuance of a resolution adopted by
them. Among its general powers enumerated is, "to purchase and hold land within its limits, and for the use of its inhabitants, subject to the supervision of the General Assembly."
The Board of Commissioners of each county are required to
hold a regular meeting at the court-house on the first Mondays
of September and March of each year. They are expressly
authorized "to purchase real property necessary for any public
county building, and for the support of the poor, and to determine the site thereof where it has not been already located;"
also, to locate the necessary county buildings, and to raise, by
tax upon the county, the money necessary for their erection.
Subdivision 8 of § 8 of the statute is as follows: "To remove or designate a new site for any county building; but
the site of any county building already located shall not be
changed unless by a unanimous vote of all the members of the
board at the regular September meeting, and unless upon
notice of the proposed change, specifying the new site. Such
notice shall be published in a newspaper printed in the county,
if there be one, and posted in one or more public places in
every township in the county for three months next immediately preceding the annual meeting at which the final vote on
the proposed change is to be taken. Such new site shall not
be more than one mile distant from the old, except upon the
special approval of the General Assembly."
It is for want of conformity to the directions of this clause
that it is contended that the proceedings of the County Commissioners of Washington.County in the purchase of the ("ourthouse building which constitutes the consideration for the obligations in suit, are illegal. We are of opinion, however, that

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of that sub-section do not apply to the circum-stances of the present case. The language of the law is
limited to the removal.or designation of a new site for an existing county building, and cannot be applied to a case such as
the present, where the court-house has been destroyed by fire.
It was the duty of the comnfissioners, after the destruction of
the existing court-house, to provide a place where the courts
could be held. and a building suitable for the purpose. The
renting of a building in another locality cannot be considered,
as a removal or designation of a new site for the county building, already located. Where a county building has been destroyed by fire, its site cannot be said any longer to exist as a
location. A literal adherence, as required by the argument
for the plaintiff in error, to the terms of the section in its application to this case leads to a necessary absurdity, for the
regular September meeting, at which the unanimous vote of
the board must be given, which it is conteiaded is a necessary
condition precedent to the validity of the transaction, is required to be held at the court-house, but, according to the circumstances of this case, there was no court-house at which any
such neeting could be held. By the terms of the law the
County Commissioners have power to designate the site of any
county building not already and previously located, and the
terms of the sub-section relied on apply, we think, only to the
case where it is a naked proposition to abandon one building,
then in use for county purposes, and to establish another one
in another site for the same purpose.
In the present case, also, if there was any change in the site
of the county building, it took place immediately after the destruction by fire of the old one, when the premises subsequently purchased were leased by the commissioners and occupied as a county court-house. This had been done five years
previously. In the meantime the occupancy of the place in
question as a court-house had been public and notorious, so
that, we think, it may be considered at the time when the purchase of the property was made that the site for a county
court-house had been aheady established. The change of title
from that of lessee for a term of years to an ownership in fee

WASHINGTON, COUNTY v. SALLINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

by reason of the purchase was not a change of the site of a
county building. It, thereforp, does not come within the prohibition relied on.
As to the.second assignment of error, reliance is had upon
an act to establish county governments, ratified February 27,
1877. Laws of :North Carolina, 1876-1877, c. 141, p. 226. That
was a statute which enacted a new mode of governing counties. It provided in § 4 that justices of the peace should be
elected by the General Assembly, and the General Assembly,
it was provided, at its then present session, should elect three
justices of the peace for each township in the several counties
of -the State, to be divided into three classes, and hold their
offices for the terms of two, four, and six years respectively;
but the successor of each class, as his term expired, should be
elected by the General Assembly for the term of six years.
It was also provided that the terms of those elected at the
then present session of the General Assembly, should begin at
the expiration of the terms for which the justices of the peafce
then in office had been elected, and not before. Section 5
enacted that justices of the peace for each county, on the first
Monday in August, 1878, and on the first Monday in August
every two years thereafter, should assemble at the court-house
of their respective counties, and, a majority being present,
should proceed to the election of not less than three, nor nore
than'five, persons to be chosen from the body of the county,
including the justices of the peace, who should be styled the
Board of Commissioners for the county, and hold their offices
for two years from the date of their qualification, and until
their stfccessors should be elected and qualified. Those elected
on the first Monday in August, 1878, were to enter upon the
duties of their office immediately upon the eipiration of 'the
term for which the Board of County Commissioners then in
office had been elected, and not before. The same section
contained the following proviso: "Provided, Aowever, That
the Board of Commissioners shall not have power to levy
taxes, to purchase real property, to remove or designate new
sites for county buildings, to construct or repair bridges, the
cost whereof may exceed five hundred dollars, or to borrow

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Couit.

money for the county, nor alter or make additional, townships,
'without the concurrence of a majority of the justices of the
peace sitting with them; and for the purposes embraced in
this proviso the justices of the peace of the county shall meet
with the 'Board of Commissioners on the first Monday ii'
August, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, and
annually thereafter, unless oftener convened by the Board of
Commissioners, who are hereby empowered to call together
the justices of the peace, when necessary, not oftener than
once in three months; but for such services the justices of the
peace shall receive no compensation."
The next section of the statute provided that the Board of
Commissioners so elected should have and exercise the jurisdiction and powers vested in the Board of Commissioners then
existing.
It is quite evident, we think, that the proviso, to § 5, which
is relied upon as prohibiting the exercise of the pbwers speciied, except in conjunction with the justices of the peace sitting
with the Board of Commissioners, applies only to those commissioners who should be chosen thereafter under the provisions
of that act, the first election under which could not occur prior
to the first Monday in August, 1878; and that those then
elected could not enter upon the duties of their offices until
after the expiration of the term for which the existing Boards
-of County Commissioners then in office had been -elected.
The'limitations upon the powers of the commissioners under
that 'statute cannot be construed as affecting the powers .of
the Boards of Commissioners in office at the date of this transaction, which'was in the year 1877. The Act of February 27,
1877, therefore, has no application to this case. There is,
therefore, no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
AIffirmed.

