CA MPBELL v. LACfEDE GAS CO.

,445

Opinion of the Court.

We must, therefore, hold that, so far as any question in
which this court can revise the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the'State of Illinois is presented to us, the judgment
must be
Afrmed.

CAMPBELL v. LACLEDE GAS COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Submitted November 15, 18S6. -Decided

December 13, 1886.

A statute of Missouri authorized United States patents for lands within
the State to be recorded, and provided that a certified copy of the patent
should be received as prma facie evidence of the contents of the patent.
In the record of a patent recorded under the provisions of this act, it
appeared that there was a seal in due form, and that the instrument was
perfect in every respect. No seal appeared in the record of the same
patent in the General Land Office in Washington. The original patent
not being in the possession or under the control of either party to the
action Held, That the presumption of law is -that all that is found in
either copy was in the original, that any important matter found in one
winch was not in the other was due to an accidental omission; and, that
the pnra facte case made by the record from Missouri was not overcome by the record from the General Land Office.
Section 891 of the Revised Statutes providing that authenticated copies of
records in the General Land Office shall be "evidence equally with the
originals thereof" does not mean that in all cases the copy should have
the same probative force as the original instrument, but that it should
be regarded as of the same class, in the grades of evidence, as to written
or parol, and primary and secondary.

This was an action to try the title to real estate in Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
1W Leverett Bell for plaintiffs in error.
XTr C. Gibson and .Xi,

. E Gibson for defendant in error.

MR. JTUSTICE Miusat delivered the opinion of the court.

.446

QCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of' the Court.

The writ of error in this case, directed to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, brings up for review the following judgment
"Levma Campbell, Frank If. Murray and
Annie L. Murray, his wife, and Charles
J January and Annie E. January, his
wife, Respondents,
w.

Appeal froith the
St. Lores Court
of Appeals.

The Laclede Gas-Light Company, Appellant, and the City of St. Louis.
"Now at this day come again the parties aforesaid, by the'respective attorneys, and, consenting that this court may proceed to render such judgment as to them may seem proper
upon the record herein, it is therefore considered and adjudged
by the court, that the plaintiffs' cause of action was at the commencement of this suit absolutely barred by the Missouristatute of limitations, and that the plaintiffs are not entitled to the
rights claimed by them under the act of Congress approved
June 6th, 1874, entitled 'An Act for obviating the necessity
of issuing patents for certain private land claims, and for other
purposes ,' and the judgment of the St. Louis Court of Appeals,
and the judgment of the St. Louis Circuit Court herein, are
reversed and heldfor naught, and it is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the plaintiffs take nothing by tis action, and that
said defendant shall recover of the plaintiffs its costs in this
behalf expended, and have execution therefor."
The question on which the jurisdiction of this court depends
-is whether the title to the land in controversy passed from the
United States by the act of Congress of June 6th, 1874, referred
to m this judgment, 18 Stat. 62, m which case the statute of
limitations was no bar, or by a patent issued March 26th, 1824,
to Pierre Chouteau, m which case it was a bar.
The question is still further narrowed because it depends
upon whether the patent issued to Choutean had the seal of
the United States for the General Land Office impressed upon
it. The patent itself was not in evidence, but the defendant,
who relied upon the statute of limitations, produced a certified
copy of the patent from the United States to Chouteau from

CAMPBELL v. 'LACLEDE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the office of the recorder.of deeds of St. Louis County, made
in that office m 1847,.nm wlnc4 copy a seal in due form appears,
and the instrument is perfect in every respect. The law of
,Missouri on the subject of the recording of patents for lands
lying within that Statei s found in §§ 3826 and 3827 6f the
Revised Statutes of that State. They are as follows
"SxcrmN 3826. All patents for land lying within the- State
of Missouri, granted to any person or persons by the President
of' the United States or the governor of tins State, may be
recorded m. the office of the recorder of the county in which
the lands are situated.
"SEcrio.x 3827. All copies of patents so recorded, or which
may have heretofore been recorded, duly cerfified by the
recorder under his official seal, shall be received in all courts in
this State as rrzmca fwce evidence of the contents of such
patents."
The record shows that the original patent was not in the
possession or under the control of either party to tins action.
It is not denied that the copy produced from the office of the
recorder of deeds makes a .'i[ima facie case of the transfer of
the title from the United States to Chouteau in 1824. The
plaintiff, however, undertook to impeach the validity of this
copy by producing from the records of the General Land Office
in Washington City a copy of the patent as there recorded.
This copy is without a seal, and to make sure that this was not
an accidental omission of the officer making the copy from the
records of the land office, a letter of the Commissioner of that
office, written at the tune the copy was made, is produced, in
which he says that he, himself, has examined with care the
record from which the copy was taken and that no seal appears
therein. He suggests, however, that while it is probable that
the seal of the General Land Office was affixed to the patent,,
there is no authority to correct the record of it in the absence
of said patent.
The case was tried without a jury, and judgment rendered
for the plaintiffs. This judgment was affirmed, as the record
states, pro fotma, in the Court of Appeals, but was reversed
by the Supreme Court, and judgment rendered for the defend.
ant, as already cited.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opmion of the Court.

It might be a question of some doubt whether this is not
merely a decision of all these courts as to a matter of fact, in
'regard tb wnch this court has no supervision over the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri. But as
the question really is, at what time the statute of limitations
began to run in favor of the defendant, and as that depends
upon whether the instrument called the patent to Chouteau is
a valid patent, and as we concur in the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Missouri on that subject, we think its judgment
ought to be affirmed.
That the State of Missouri had a right to pass the statute
which makes the record in the offices of that State of a patent
-fromthe United States lpwia facte evidence of the contents
of that patent, does not seem to be doubted. Indeed, it was
a very wise and needful provision, for without it tho title to
large quantities of land, winch rested primarily in the patents
from the United States, nught be very difficult to establish by
evidence of that title. By this statute parties were enabled to
place this evidence in permanent form upon the records of the
counties in winch the land was situated, at the same time
giving notice to all the world of their claim to such land.
This record of the Chouteau patent'bemg, therefore, authorized
by a valid law, we see no reason why a transcript of it is not
of as much actual value as evidence of the original patent, as
a transcript from a similar record made at Wasinngton City
In -each instance the record is but the copy of the same instrument, made by different persons, who must be supposed to be
equally honest, equally careful, and, therefore, equally accurate
in the record winch they made of the original. If there is
found to be a variance in the two copies thus produced, it
would naturally be supposed that all that is found in either
copy was in the original, and that any important matter found
in one copy winch was not found in the other was due to an
accidental omission, rather than that it was an accidental
insertion of matter not in the original paper. Counsel for
defendant argues that it is fairly to be inferred that there was
a seal to the 'original patent, and that its record was accidentally omitted, because tins patent, like all others, contains in

CAMPBELL v. LACLEDE GAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the testimomum the language of the President, that "I have
caused these letters to ba made patent, and the seal of the
General Land Office to be hereunto affixed." Whatever force
might be given to this language as evidence that there was a
seal to the original is lost by reason of the failure to incorporate either one of the transcripts in the record of the case as
it comes to us.
aa v .Tizng Cowniany, 96 U. S. 316,
The case of XcGaraa
323-so far from sustaining the doctrine claimed by counsel
for plaintiffs inerror, that the act of Congress, Rev Stat. § 891,
making certified copies from the books of the Comnissioner
of the General Land Office evidence equally with the orginals, makes the copy in this case with the seal omitted con-,
clusive against the record from the St. Lotus office - recognizes the fact that there is nothing in the statute, either
express or implied, which forbids a party from showing by
extrinsic proof, otherwise legitinate, what the contents of
the lost original really were, when it is shown that the record
itself, or the transcript from it, is not a true copy; and it
further holds that the party is not necessarily deprived of his
rights on account of the defective record in the General Land
Office.
The words "evidence equally," as used in the act of Congress, were not intended to mean that sn all cases the copy
should have the same probative force as the original mstrtiment, but that it should be regarded as of the same class, in
the grades of evidence, as to written and parol, and prnarv
and secondary It could not have been intended to say that
when the existence of the instrument is conceded, but a question arises as to some particular word or figure, the copy would
be as convincing as the original.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the pmzmafaez.e case
made by the record of the patent in the recordox's office of St.
Louis County is not overcome by what purports to be a copy
of the same from the records of the General Land Office in
Washngmton, and that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri must bp
YOL. CXIX-l

