WHITE v. DUNBAR.
Opinion 9f the Court.

WHITE vo. DUNBAR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 29, November 1, 18S6, -Decided November 15,18SG.

The claim of the inventor in letters-patent-must be construed according to
its terms; and when its import is plain, resorb cannot be had to the context for the purpose of enlarging it.,
A reissue which materially enlarges the claim in the original letters-patent,
and which was made five years after their issue, is held to be invalid.

This was a bill in equity to restrain infringement of letterspatent. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_3'. TF;liarn G. Hend'mTrso for appellants. Mfr. Joseph A'
H7ornor, -M. F. 'F. Baker, and 31r. C.'H.Joyce were with
him on the brief.
-Y'. felville Church for appellees.
was with him on the brief.

Jir.Joseph B. Chureh

Mj. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered 'the opinion of the court.

This is a suit on a reissued patent. The appellees obtained
a patent dated June 20th, 1876, for a method of preserving
shrimps and other shell-fish by placing them in a bag or-sack
made of cotton, muslin, or other textile fabric, and then )ealing them up in a metallic can, and subjecting them to a boiling
process. In their specification they declare that the object of
placing the shrimp iii the bag is to keep them from coming in
direct contact with the can, and thus prevent their discoloration and loss of flavor. They describe the process as follows:
"The shell having been removed from the shrimp in the
usual manner, the fish is thrown into salt water of about six
degrees, and there remains for an hour, more or less, and from
thence to kettles filled with water and brought to a boiling
heat, after which they are placed on dippers, and cooled and
thoroughly rinsed with fresh cold water, and from which, so

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

soon as thoroughly dripped, in a moist condition, they are
placed in the sack B, the same having been previously arranged
in the can A, and without the addition of any salted or otherwise prepared liquid. So soon as the sack is filled, the mouth
thereof being properly secured, the lid or head a is placed in
position on the can A and immediately sealed.
"The cans are then subjected to a steam bath, or placed in
kettles containing boiling water, and boiled for two hours at
the highest temperature attainable, and which completes the
process."
The claim is then stated, as follows:
"What we claim as new, and desire to secure by letterspatent, is"The herein-described method of preserving shrimps, &c.,
preventing their discoloration, which consists in placing textile
fabric between the can and its contents, and then sealing the
can and subjecting the same to a boiling process, substantially
as and for the purpose specified."
In April, 1880, Pecor, one of the appellants, together with
one Bartlett, obtained a patent for another method of preserving shrimps, by first lining the inside of the can with a coating
of asphaltum cement, and then with paper coated with a solution of paraffine, or kindred substance; the can is then filled
with shrinp, sealed up, and subjected to the boiling or steaming) process, in the usual manner of canning' vegetables and
meats.
In April, 1881, the appellees surrendered their original patent, and applied for a, reissue thereof, which was granted in
December, 1SS1. In the new specification they describe their
process to consist in; first, providing the can with a lining to prevent direct contact of th6 shrimps with the metal; and, second,
placing them in the lined can while, they are in a dry or moist
condition and devoid of free liquid or gravy, sealing the can
without adding any liquid to its contents, and cooldng the contents of the can after sealing. They add that "there is nothing arbitrary about the-peculiar form and construction of the
textile fabric lining, as other forms and arrangements might
bilsabstituted therefor;" and again, "B is the lining, con-

WHITE v. DUNBAR.
Opinion of the Court.

structed preferably of cotton or muslin."

The claim of the

reissued patent is in the following words:
"What we claim as new, and desire to secure by letterspatent, is "As an improvement in the art of preserving shrimps in
metal cans, the mode of preventing the discoloration of the
slrimps, which consists in interposing between the metal can
and the shrimps an enveloping material for the shrimps, which
is not itself capable of discoloring the shrimps, and then sealing
the can and subjecting the same and its contents to a boiling
process, substantially as described."
In March, 1882, the appellants commenced the canning of
shrimps, and in their answer state that all the business of canning shrimps that they bave ever done has been under the
authority of the patent granted to Pecor and Bartlett. They
further describe the process used by them as follows:
"The common tin cans being ready forpacking, three pieces
of paper, previously boiled in paraffine wax or coated with
same, are cut and placed in the can, so that one piece covers
the bottom, another piece the sides, and a third piece the top
of the contents when the can is filled ; the shrimps are then
picked raw, then washed and thoroughly cooked for about
twenty minutes, until fit to eat ; they are 'then placed in the
cans, which are soldered, and then put into a steam retort
without water, which is heated to .240' Fahrenheit, where they
remain from two and a half to three hours, which process has
the effect of condensing the air and liquids in the can, and
exterminating any animal or vegetable life that may remain in
the contents of the can, after which they are. ready to be
labelled and sold."
The process thus used by the appellants is claimed by the
appellees to be an infringement of their reissued patent; they
also contend that the claim of the reissued patent is no broader
than that of the original, properly construed.
In the latter proposition we cannot concur. The claim in
the original patent was for placing textile fabric between tbe
can and its contents; whilst in the reissue it is for interposing
between the metal can and the shrimps an enveloping material
VOL. Cxx-4

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

for the shrimps.. This is certainly, on its face, a very important
enlargement of the claim; and we see nothing in the context
of the specification in the original patent which could possibly
give the claim so broad a construction. The description of
the invention, throughout, specifies a textile fabric as the material to be interposed between the shrimp and the metallic can.
It is true that the object of the invention is stated to be "to
prevent the article to be preserved from coming in direct contact with the surface of the can." But the object of an invention isa very different thing from the invention itself. The
object may be accomplished in many ways; the invention
shows one way. Again, in describing the niature of the
improvement, the patentees say"Primarily, our improvement consists in so placing a. suitable textile fabric between the fish or other article of food to be
preserved as to cause it to intervene so as to prevent, under all
circumstances, any direct contact between the metallic surface
of the can and its contents; and it is the employment of such
textile fabric, in connection with the process hereinafter
described, of treating the fish or other article, both before and
after the same is placed in the can and sealed, which constitutes the nature or subject-matter of our present invention."
Then, in describing the apparatus used, referring to the
figures annexed to the specification, (which are not necessary
to the understanding of the description,) they say:
"In the accompanying drawing is illustrated, at Figure 1, a
metallic can, such as is ordinarily used for articles of food
which are offered to the trade in a canned state. Fig. 2 is a
textile lining, which we propose usually to make, (although
there is nothing arbitrary about the torm, as other forms may
be used,) in the form of a cylindrical bag or sack, the diameter
of which, when filled, is to be such as will permit of its fitting
snugly within the can.
"A is the metallic can; a its lid or cover. B is the bag or
sack, constructed of cotton, muslin, or any other suitable textile fabric. Material of the cheapest and most inferior quality
may be used, as the sole object of its use is to prevent the article to be preserved from coming in direct contact with the sur-

WHITE v. DUNBAR.

-

Opinion of the Court.

face of the can, and which contact with the metal, in the case
of the shrimp, causes, during .the process of boiling, and allalong thereafter until the can is opened, a profuse precipitation
of a black substance, generally believed to be sulphur, and
which supposition is based upon the fact that the shrimp is
said to possess a much larger proportion of sulphur than
other shell-fish. The substance thus precipitated not only discolors the fish (shrimp), but detracts much from the coloi,
freshness, and richness of its flavor. Now, practical experience
has fully demonstrated the fact, that, by using a textile fabric
as described, the precipitation of the substance alluded to is
prevented, or at least does not appear either on the fabric or
metal; hence the value and importance of this feature of our
invention. b, Fig. 3, is a circular piece cut out of-material
similar to that of which the bag B is made, and which is
inserted within the mouth of the latter after the same is filled
with the fish or other article to be preserved.
"Such a can and lining, as herein described, are admirably
adapted for the purpose attained by our present invention;
but, as before stated, there is nothing arbitrary about the
peculiar form or corstraction of the textile fabric lining, as
other forms and arrangements might be substituted therefor
without in any manner altering the principle of the invention."
We see nothing in all this to raise the slightest implication
that the patentees were the inventors of the process of inter-posing any and every kind of lining between the cans and
their contents; and when their claim is confined to a lining of
textile fabric, it is tantamount to a declaration that they
claimed nothing else.
Some persons seem to suppose that a claim in a patent is
like a nose of wax which may be turned and twisted in any
direction, by merely referring to the specification, so as to
make it include something more than, or something different
from, what its words express. The context may, undoubtedly,
be resorted to, and often is resorted to, for the- puinpose of
better understanding the meaning of the claim-; but not for
the purpose of changing it, and making it different fom what

OCTOBER TERM, "1886.
Opinion of the Court.

it is. The claim is a statutory requirement, prescribed for the
very purpose of making the patentee define precisely what
his invention is; and it is unjust to the public, as well as an
evasion of the law, to construe it in a manner different from
the plain import of its terms. This -has been so often
expressed in the opinions of this court that it is unnecessary
to pursue the subject further. See Zeystone Bridge Co. v.
P/ounix Iron Co., 95 U. S. 274, 278; James v. 6ampbell, 104
U. S. 356, 370.
We are clearly of opinion, therefore, that the original
patent is not susceptible of the broad construction which the
appellees would give to it; and that the reissued patent is a
material expansion and enlargement of it. As such expansion
appears to be the only object of the reissue, and as the application for the reissue was not made until nearly five years
after the original was granted, the case comes within the
ruling of i£iller v. Brass -Company, 104 U. S. 350, and subsequent cases to the same purport.
We attach no importance to the fact that between the date
of the original patent and the application for the reissue, the
patent to Pecor and Bartlett was granted. It is, indeed, quite
apparent that the appellees applied for a reissue in consequence of that patent, and in order to prevent the canning of
shrimps under it. The circumstance that other improvements
and inventions, made after the issue of a patent, are often
sought to be suppressed or appropriated by an unauthorized
reissue, has sometimes been referreal to for the purpose of
illustrating the evil consequences of granting such reissues;
but it adds nothing to their illegality. That is deduced from
general principles of law as applied to the statutes authorizing
reissues, and affecting the rights of the government and the
public.
In our judgment the reissued patent in this case was unlawfully granted, and the bill should have been dismissed.
TJYe decree of tMe Circeuit Court is, tkerefore, r'eversed, and
the case remanded,with directions to dismiss the bill.

