GOETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS

CITY.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

GOETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS CITY.
ERIloR TO THE COICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ANISCONSLN.
Argued November 24, 2), 1836. -Decided

FOR THE

January 10, 1887.

The acceptor of a bill of exchange discounted by a bank with a bill of
ladinlg atached which the acceptor and the bank regard as genuine at
the time of the acceptance, but which turns out to be a forgery, is bound
to pay the bill to the bauk at maturity.
The bad faith in the taker of negotiable paper which will defeat a recovery
by him must be something more than a failure to inquire into the consideration upon which it was made or accepted, because. of rumors or
general reputation as to the bad character of the maker or drawer.
In an action against the acceptor of a bill of exchange, with alleged fictitious bills of lading attached, articles from newspapers touching the
drawer as to other drafts with like bills attached were properly exchIded
as having no connection with the transaction in controversy, it not appearing that the holder ever saw them.
Evidence of declarations of an agent as to past transaction of his principal
is inadmissible, as mere hearsay.
In an action by a bank against tne acceptor upon a draft discounted by the
bank with a fraudulent bill of lading attached, the president of the bank,
as a witness for it, having testified that he was ignorant of the forgeries,
and also of the circumstances attending other drafts by the drawer with
forged bills of lading attached which had been discounted by the bank,
and that he could only explain why paius were not tak~n in the matter
)y explaining the usage of the bank, it is competent for the court to
receive such explanation of the usage.

This was an action against the plaintiff in error, the acceptor of bills of exchange with forged bills of lading attached,
which had been discounted by the defendant in error, and
presented for acceptance without knowledge of the fraud in
either party. Judgment for defendant, to review which this
writ of error was sued out. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
.Jil.. F. TF. Cotziausen,for plaintiff in error, cited: Baylis v.
T'avelljes' 1ns. Co., 113 U. S. 316; Burwnside v. Grand Trunk
Railway, 47 N. H. 554; Xenia Bank v. Stewiart, 114 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

224; Hofma,22 v. Bank of .Afilwaukee, 12 Wall. 181; Goodman
v. Simonds, 20 How. 343; Bank of Commerce v. Union Bank,
3 N. Y. (3 Comst.) 230; Canal Bank v. Bank of Albany, 1
Hll, 287; Bank of Commerce v. .Merclhints' Bank, 91 U. S.
92; _ory, v. Commercial Bank, Taney's Dec. 310; United
States v. Bank of Metr polis, 15 Pet. 377; Stewart v. Lans-

ing, 104 U. S. 505; .Duerson:v, Alsop, 27 Gratt.

229;

Smith v.

Sac County, 11 Wall. 139; Clark v. Pease, 41 N. H. 414;
Solomons v. Bank of England, 13 East, 135 n.; Gill v. Cubit,
4 B. & C. 466; People v. Howell, 4 Johns. 296; Uter v.
Rich, 10 Ad. & El. 784; Carroll v. Hayward, 124 Mlass. 120;
Jones v. Gordon, 2 App. Cas. 616; Raphael v. Bank of Lvgland, 17 C. B. 161; Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65; .Fowler v.
Brantly, 14 Pet. 318.
.Jr. Oliver H. Dean, for defendant ih error, (_lfr. William
Warner and .A&. James Hagerman were with him on his
brief,) cited: Hofman v. Bank of -Milwaukee, 12 Wall. 181;
Craigv. Sibbett, 15 Penn. St. 238; 2hiedemann,v. Goldschmidt,
1 De G. F. & J. 4; -Leatherv. Simpson, L. IR. 11 Eq. 398;
-FirstHYat. Bank v. Burkhlam, 32 Mich. 328; VTnited States v.
Ba/nk of .etropolis, 15 Pet. 377; Yowng v. -Tehman, 63 Ala.
519; Park Bank v. "YinthHYat. Bank, 46 N. Y. 77; Goddard
v. Jferchants' Bank, 4 N. Y. (4 Comst.) 147; Bank of Com.
merce v. Union Bank, 3 N. Y. (3 Comst.) 230; Bank of tk
United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 333; Price v
HYeal, 3 DuroW, 1354; Goodman v. Simon&s, 20 How. 343.
.Afurray v. -Lardner,2 Wall. 110; Hotchkiss v. Hfat. Bank, 21
Wall. 354; Collins v. Gilbert, 94 U. S. 753; aaw v. Railroa5
Co,, 101 T. S. 557; Swift v. Smiith, 102 U. S. 442; -Belmont
Branch Bank v. 'Hoge, 35 N. -Y. 65; Hamilton v. .3tarks., 63
MAissouri, 167'; Sweeney v. Easter, 1, Wall. 166;" First Hlat.
Bank v. Reno County Bank, 1 M'Crary, 491; White v. .2Vational Bank, 102 U. S. 658; TYhe Sallie Magee, 3 Wall. 451;
Hannum v. Richardson, 48 Vt. 508; Bank v. Steward, 37
Maine, 519; Lvby v. Railroad Co., 17 N. Y. 131; Clough v.
Packing Co., 20 Wall..528; Hazleton v. Union Bank, 32 Wis.
34; Randall v. Telegraph Co., 54 Wis. 140; Adams v. Hani-

GbETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

bold & St. Jos. Railroad, 74 Missouri, 553; Ladd v. Covzins,
35 Missouri, 513; Bacon v. Charlton, 7 Cush. 581; Lund v.
Tynsboro'ugh, 9 Cush. 36; Baptist Churck v. Br'oodya Fire
Ins. Co., 28 X. Y. 153.
MXr. B. EK .filler also filed a brief for defendant in error.
M.

JUSTICE FiEi

delivered-the opinion of the court.

In October, 1861, the plaintiffs in error, Goetz and Luening,,
were partners inthe business of buying and selling hides on
commission, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. At that time one Du
Bois was a dealer in hides at Kansas City, Missouri. On the
tenth of that month Du Bois telegraphed to them from! Kansas City, inquiring what they could sell four hundred green
salt hides for; and what they would advance on a bill of
lading of the shipment. The firm answered by telegram, stating the market price of light hides on that day, and that
they would pay a draft "for two thirds value, bill of lading
-attached." On the same day, the firm sent a letter to Du
Bois, repeating the message, and adding that if the hides
were in good condition and number one, they dould sell them
readily; that their commission, was two and a half per cent.;
and that they would sell all hides that he might ship to the
market at Milwaukee. Upon this understanding, and during
the same month, Du Bois drew upon the firm five drafts,
amounting in the aggregate to $9395, which were accepted,
and, with the exception of the fifth one, were paid. The fifth
one, which was for two thousand dollars, was protested for
non-payment. To each of the drafts were attached a bill of
lading and an invoice of the shipment. The bill of lading
purported to have been issued by the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company, stating that it had received hides, gving the
number and estimated weight, to be transported on the road
from Kansas City to Milwaukee, and marked and consigned
as follows: "To shipper's order. Notify Goetz and Luening,
Milwaukee, Wis." The invoice purported to give the net
weight in pounds of the hides shipped, and the market price

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

a.t Milwaukee, and their estimated aggregate value, referring
to the sight draft for two thirds of the amount.
The drafts were made payable to Thornton, the cashier of
the Bank of Kansas City, and were cashed as drawn, the
bank paying their full face, less the usual rate of exchange on
Milwaukee. The amount, as each was cashed, was passed to
the credit of Du Bois, and was checked out by him in the
usual course of business, within a few days.
The drafts were sent by the bank to its correspondent at
Chicago indorsed "for collection" on its account, And by him.
were forwarded to Milwaukee. The invoices of some of the
shipments were indorsed in the same way. The bills of lading were indorsed by Du Bois, per J. MacLellon, his clerk.
The signatures to the bills of lading proved"to-be forgeries,
on which account Goetz and Luening refused to pay the fifth
draft. The bank thereupon brought an action" against thexm
for the amount in the Circuit Court of the Unitel States.
They defended, and set up as a counter claim the sumsn they.
had paid on the four drafts. At the same time, they commenced an action in the State court against the bank to
recover the money paid on those four drafts. The latter
action'was )!emoved, on application of the bank, to the Circuit Court of the United States,- where the two actions were
consolidated and tried as one, the same questions being involved in both. The trial resulted, by direction of the court,
in a verdict for the bank, by which it recovered against the
flim the amofint claimed on the unpaid draft, and defeated
the claim of the firm for the return of the money paid on the
other four drafts. "
The contention of Goetz and Luening was substantially this,
that they accepted the drafts in the belief that the bills of
lading were genuine; that their genuineness was asserted by
the indorsement of the bank on the invoices accompanying
them; that the bills of lading were forgeries; that no shipments as stated therein had been made; and that Du Bois
bore in the community such a reputation for dishonesty, having been charged at other times with forging bills of lading
attached to drafts drawn by him, that the bank was guilty

GOETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS CITY.
Opinion of the Court;

of culpable negligence, .amounting to bad faith, in discounting
these drafts on the faith of the bills of lading presented by
him without inquiring as to their genuineness.
The t~stimony offered by the firm respecting the character
of Du Bois was of great length, but it would serve no useful
purpose to discuss it. It is sufficient to say that it consisted
of a mass of loose statements, general charges of criminality,,
with vague references in some instances to reported particulars, sensational articles in newspapers, surmises, insinuations,
rumors, beliefs, and suspicionsi which might make men cautious in their dealings with him; but they were altogether of
too indefinite and uncertain a character to interdict all transactions with him in the ordinary course of business.
-Besides, testimony was produced by the bank highly favorable to the standing and character of Du Bois. He is-shown
to have been a man of great enterprise and capacity; and just
before opening business with the bank, to have been a member
of the government of Kansas City, representing his waid in
the common council, and spoken of as a prominent candidate
for its mayoralty. He was a member and director of the
board of trade of the city, and one of its committee on arbitration, to which business disputes of its members were referred
for settlement. He had been a captain in the Union army,
and bore the -reputation of a brave and, gallant officer. He
was received in the best society-of the city, and was generally
popular. He commenced "iusinesswith the bank in March,
1881, and drafts by him, cashed by the bank, amounted from
twenty to one hundred thousand dollars a month. 'Those
drafts were always accompanied by bills of lading, and not
until after the discovery of the forgery of the bills of lading
in this case was it known that in any of these transactions he
had been guilty of'dishonest conduct.
Under these circumstances, it is not suprising that, when
the drafts on the merchants in Milwaukee'were presented for
discount, the bank made no inquiry as to the genuineness of
the bills of lading attached to them. A bank in discounting
commercial paper does not, guarantee the genuineness of a
document attached to it as collateral security. Bills of lading

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

attached to drafts drawn, as ii the present case, are merely
for the payment of the drafts. The indorsement by
the bank on the invoices accompanying some of the bills, "for
collection," created no responsibility on the part of the bank;
it implied no guarantee that the bills of lading were genuine;
it imported nothing more than that the goods, which the bills
of lading stated had been shipped, were to be held for the payment of the drafts, if the drafts were not paid by the drawees,
and that the bank transferred them only for that purpose.
If the drafts should be paid, the drawees were to take the
goods. To hold such indorsement to be a warranty would
create great embarrassment in the use of bills of lading as
collateral to commercial paper against which they are drawn.
The bank after discounting the drafts, stood towards the
acceptors in the position of an original lender, and could not
be affected in its claim by the want of a consideration from
the drawer for the acceptance, or by the failure of such consideration. This has been held in numerous cases, .and was
directly adjudged by this court in Homan v. Bank of .fllwaukee, 12 Wall. 181, which in essential particulars is similar
to the one at- bar. There the bank had discounted drafts
drawn by parties at Milwaukee on Hoffman & Company, commission merchants of Philadelphia, to which were attached
bills of lading purporting to represent shipments of flour.
Hoffman & Cohipany accepted and paid the drafts. The bills
of lading proved to be forgeries, and Hoffman & Company
sued the bank to recover the money paid. It was contended
that they had accepted and paid, the drafts in the belief that
the accompanying bills of lading were genuine, and that, had
they known the real facts, they would not have accepted and
paid the drafts, and could not have been compelled to do so,
in which case the loss would have fallen on the bank; that is,
that they paid the drafts under a mistake of facts. But the
court answered "that money paid as in this case by the ac-.
ceptor of a bill of exchange to the payee of the same, or to a
subsequent indorser in discharge of his legal obligation as
such, is not a payment by mistake, nor without consideration,
unless it be shown that the instrument was fraudulent in its

- security

GOETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS

CITY.

557T

Opinion of the Court.

inception, or that the consideration was illegal, or that the
facts and circumstinces which impeach the transaction as between the acceptor and 'the drawer were known to the payee
or subsequent indorsee at the time he became the holder of
'the instrument;" that, supposing the plaintiffs accepted the
bills of exchange upon the faith and security of the bills of
lading attached, that fact would not benefit them, as the bills
of exchange were in the usual form, and contained no reference whatever to the bills of lading, and it was not pretended
that the defendants had any knowledge or intimation that the
bills of 14ding were not genuine, or that they had made any
representation upon the subject to induce the plaintiffs to contract any such liability; that undoubtedly the bills of lading
gave some credit to the bills of exchange beyond what was
created by the pecuniary standing of the parties to them, but
that they were not a part of those instruments, and could not
be regarded in any more favorable light than as collateral security accompanying the bills of exchange; and that proof that
the bills of lading were forgeries could not operate to discharge
the liability of the plaintiffs, as acceptors, to pay the amounts
to the payees or their indorsees, as the payees were innocent
holders, having paid value for the same in the usual course of
busines§.
The case of .Robinsn v. Re'ynoldq, decided by the Queen's
Bench, and, on error, in the Exchequer Chamber, 2 Q. B. 196,
is also similar, in essential particulars, to the one at bar. An
action of assumpsit having been brought by the indorsee of a
bill of exchange against the acceptors, they pleaded that the
drawer was in the habit of delivering goods in Ireland to the
City of Dublin, Steam Company to be carried to Liverpool,
consigned and deliverable there to his order, and of taking'
from the company a receipt for the goods, bill of lading, or
document, which, by the custom of merchants, when indorsed
for value, passed the property in the goods, and entitled the
indorsee to have them delivered to him; that the drawer used
to obtain advances from the National Bank of Ireland on indorsing to it such document, and drawing and delivering to it
a bill of exchange on the defendants or other person to whom

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-the goods were deliverable; that the bank used to forward
the indorsed document to Liverpool, and to have it presented
to defendants, (or such other person,) and on the faith thereof,
the defendants (or such other person) used to accept the bill
of exchange; that the drawer, pretending to act in pursuance
of such usage, fraudulently indorsed and delivered to the bank
a document, in the usual form, to which the signature of the
agent of the steam company was forged, purporting that the
goods mentioned in it had been delivered to the steam company, which was false; and the drawer, at the same time, indorsed the bill of exchange in controversy to the bank, which
advanced him the amount on the faith of the document; that
the bank indorsed the document -and had it presented to the
defendants with the bill of exchange, and requested them to
accept the bill of exchange on the faith of, and in consideration of, the delivery of the document, which was delivered as
a true one; that the defendants, in consideration of the goods
mentioned in the document, and in consideration and on the
faith of it, and in ignorance of its being forged, accepted the
bill of exchange for and at the request of the bank; and that
thus the consideration for 'the acceptance which defendants
had been induced to make under the mistake into which they
had been led by the conduct and indorsement of the bank,
wholly failed. The plea did not allege that the bank kew
the document to be forged or represented it to be genuine; and
on that ground, after verdict for the defendants the plaintiffs,
representing the bank, obtained'a rule nisi for a new trial, or
for judgment mom obstante ,er'edicto. After argument the
Queen's Bench made the rule absolute. In giving its decision
Lord Denman said: "This plea does not show that the plaintiffs made any representation which they knew to be false,
nor that they warranted the bill of lading to be genuine: nor
does it disclose that the defendants accepted the bill of exchange
on which the' action is brought upon the faith of any assertion
by the plaintiffs, further than their indorsement upon it, that
the bill of lading, which turned out to be forged, was genuine.
On the contrary, it appears by the other averments in the
plea that the drawer of the bill was the correspondent of the

GOETZ v. BANK OF KANSAS CITY,
Opinion of the Court.

defendants, and that it was upon his authentication of the bill
of lading, as referring to goods which he professed to have
consigned to them, that they acted." Judgment was accordingly.ordered for the defendant, von obstante ver'edicto.
The case having been taken to the Exchequer Chamber, the
judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench was. affirmed. Tindal, C. J., in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The
sole ground on which the defendant relies is, that the acceptance was not binding on account of the total failure or insufficiency of the consideration for which it wAs given, the document, on the delivery of which the acceptance was given,
having been forged, and there never having been any other
consideration whatsoever for the acceptance of the defendants. And this would have been a good answer to the action,
if the bank had been the drawers of the bill. But the bank
are indorsees, and indorsees for value; and the failure or
want of consideration between them and the acceptors constitutes no defence; nor would the want of consideration
between the drawer and acceptois (which must be considered
as included in the general averment that there was no consideration), unless they took the bill with notice of the want of
consideration, which is not averred in this plea. -Admitting
that the bill was accepted by the drawee at the request of the
bank, and on a consideration "which turns out to be utterly
worthless, the case is the same as if the bill had been accepted
without any value at all being given by the bank to the,
defendants; and, on that supposition, the defendants would
still be liable as acceptors to the bank, who are indorsees for
value, unless not only such want of consideration existed
between the drawer and acceptors, but unless the indorsees
had notice or knowledge thereof. For the acceptance binds
the defendants conclusively, as between them and every bona
,jice indorsee for value. And it matters not whether the bill
was accepted before or after such an indorsement."
Many other cases to the same purport might be cited.
0'clig v. Sibbett, 15 Penn. St. 238, 240; 2_Ynroe v. Bordier, 8
C. B. 862; Thicdeman v. Goldsetmidt, 1 De Gex. F. & J. 4;
Hunter v. TiIsorn, 19 L. J. N. S. Exch. 8; Leather v. 2impson,
11 L. R. Eq. 398.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The bad faith in the taker of negotiable paper which will
defeat a recovery by him must be something more than a failure to inquire into the consideration upon which it is made or
accepted, because of rumors or general reputation as to the
bad character of the maker or drawer.
The main position of the plaintiffs in error is, therefore,
untenable. It only remains to say a few words respecting
the exceptions to the rejection and admission of testimony.
1. Articles from newspapers touching the conduct of Du
Bois in drawing drafts, with alleged fictitious bills of lading
attached, on a house in Buffalo two years before, were excluded as having no connection with the transactions in controversy, and it not appearing that the officers of the bank
ever saw them; and we think the exclusion was correct. The
story of his conduct two years before in a different transaction, however bad or even criminal it may have been, did not
show, or tend to show, bad faith in the officers of the bank in
discounting the drafts in this case.
2. The testimony of one of the plaintiffs and of one of his
attorneys was offered as to declarations of the president of
the bank, made several days after the last draft had been
discounted, to the effect that the bank had become largely
involved in certain wool transactions with Du Bois as early as
July or August, 1881, and would have broken off its relations
with him if it had not been that this wool matter remained
unsettled. The testimony was excluded, and rightly so. The
declarations had no bearing upon the good faith of the officers
of the bank in the transactions in. this case; and, if they had,
being made some days after those transactions, they were not
admissible as part of the res gestce any more than if made by
a stranger. Evidence of declarations of an agent as to past
transactions of his principal are inadmissible, as mere hearsay.
Luby v. Hucson River Railroad, 17 N. Y. 131, 133; Adams
v. annibal cnd St. Josep Railroad, 74 Missouri, 553.
3. The testimony of the president of the bank, explanatory
of the conduct of its officers when certain drafts came back
protested, was admissible. The witness had testified, upon
examination by the plaintiffs, that the bank never had any

