STORY v.

IA CIK.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

STORY v. BLACK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT O]31 THE'TEiRRITORY OF MONTAITA
Sabmitted-November 1 1886.-Decided November 15, 1886:

When a jury is waived in a territorial court in the trial of an action at law,
the case cannot be brought up for review by writ of brror; but must, under the Act of April 7, 1874,. c. 80, 18 Stat. 27, come, if at all, by appeal,
as provided in that act.

This was an action to try title.'to teal estate. After issue
joined it came -on for trial ' before the court, A trial by jury
having been expressly waived by the parties." In'the coure
of the trial plaintiff's counsel took several exceptions to evidence offered on defendant's behalf, all of which werd duly
noted. The judge, +taen, after hearing the evidence,, made
special findings of fact, and found conclusions of law thereon;
and plaintiff's counsel thereupon excepted to each finding of
fact, except one which was specified, and tQ each of the con.
clusions of law, on the ground that the. same wer6 defective
and did not cover the material issues in the action, and that
the court erred in its conclusions of law upon the findings.
Plaintiff's counsel also asked for certain Ppcified .findings, and
moved for a ne~v trial for reasons given in the motion; and,
the motion being denied, excepted to ,the order denying it.
On this record the case was taken on appeal to the Supreme
Cour't of the Territory. The judgment below was there
affiruied, and this writ of error was sued out to review that
action of the Suprenae Court of the Territory.
Mrb. J. Huley -.Ashto and Hr' _Mathaniel iki or for plaintiff in error.
Although a jury was waived in. this case by, the parties,
ald the i'ssues of fact therein were tried by the court, under
the authority of the Statute of :Montana, the case was a case
"of trial by jury" under that 'tatute, and within the meaning of the second section of the Act of 1874, and, there-

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

f9re, properly comes here by writ of error. The words, in
the first section, "cases of trial by jury," receive interpretation from the proviso in the first section of the act, and they
are substantially equivalent to 4he words, "cases cognizable at
common law," as used in that proviso.
Certainly, it would seem, the Act of 1874 did not intend to
provide for a writ of error in a case cognizable in equity, where,
under the requirement of the Statute of the Territory, the
issues of fact were tried by a jury; and yet, it would appear,
as we respectfully suggest, that such a case must come here by
writ of error, and not appeal, if the absolute ancd universal
test as to the proper appellate proceeding, in a-territorial case,
be the fact of whether" or not there was. a trial by jury.
It would seem, as- we desire to submit, under the Act of
1874, that regard must be had to the subject-matter of and the
remedy sought in a case from the court of a Territory, whose
legislature recognizes, as the Statute of Montana recognizes,
the essential distinction between law and equity; and that if
they are purely legal, and cognizable solely at law, and the
Territorial Statute required the trial of the case by jury, unless
the parties waived a jury trial, the case is one "of trial by
jury," within the meaning of that phrase in the Act of 1874,
although, in fact, a jury trial was waived and the issues of fact
were tried by the court.
By the Montana Code of Civil Procedure, in actions for the
recovery of specific real property, and other comnion law
cases, a jury trial must be had unless expressly waived in the
manner specified in the Statute, §§ 241, 269.
Mr. Edwin W. Too and LJf'r. Joseph IC Tooks for defendants
in.error.
Xm.

Cm .E JusT cE WArr

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error to the 'Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana to bring up for review the judgment in a
suit where "there was not a trial by jury. Under the Act of
April 7, 1874, c. 89, § 2, 18 Stat. 27, the case should have

