OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

,The plaintiff, as a part of his case, read in evidence from the
minute book of the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri the
act an d agreement of consolidation between it and the Ameri:cana District Telegraph Company of St. Louis, in which it is
recited that the party of the first part, the Bell Telephone
Company of Missouri, "has purchased and is now owner of 250
shhrbs of its capital stock ;" and this recital is relied upon as
an Admission that the transaction was one of purchase and sale,
and not a voluntary surrender of the right to unissued stock.
The recital, however, has no effect as an estoppel, the plaintiff
being no party to the deed which contains it, and acquiring no
rights on the faith of it; and it is in fact an innocent misdescription of a transaction, the real nature of which fully and
unambiguously appears from the other record of the same
company, where it speaks of and records the transaction as it
occurred and when it took place, being made, indeed, for that
very purpose.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the jury would not have
been warranted in drawing thle conclusion of fact, from the
evidence in the case, that there was any such agreement as
that sued on, and that the relation of the parties, as shown in
the circumstances of the transaction, was not such as, in contemplation of law, to give rise to any such liability.
The ruling of the Circuit Court was, therefore; correct, and
its judgment is
Afflrmed.

WHITFORD v. CLARK COUNTY.
EERO

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOl THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued December 6, 7, ISS6. - Decided December 20, 1886.

"When a witness, whose deposition is taken de bene esse under Rev. Stat. § 863,
lives more than 100 miles from the place, of trial when the deposition
istaken, it will be presumed that he continues to live there at the time of
trial, and n'n further proof on that subject need be offered by the party

WHITFORD v. CLARK COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

offering the deposition unless this presumption is overcome by proof
from the other side; but if it be overcome, and the party offering the"
deposition has knowledge of his power to get the witness in time to
secure an attendance at the trial, the deposition will be excluded. This
rule does not apply to depositions taken under § 866.
When the statutes of the United States make special provisions as to the
competency or admissibility of testimony, tiey must be followed in the

courts of the United States; and not the laws or practice of the State in
which the court is held, when they are different.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3T. Clintan Powell and _lr. Join B. Henderson for plaintiff
in error. lr. H. A. Clover was with them on the brief.
AXr., 2fatthew G. Pyqnolds and lr'. Williarm H. Hatch for
defendant in error. Mr. Thomas J C. Fagg and AfE'. James
X1. -. ewis were with them on the brief.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the trial was by the court, a jury having been
waived. The record presents a special finding of facts and
certain exceptions to the rulings of the court on the admissibility of testimony. Upon the fa-,ts as found we should have
had no hesitatioi in affirming the judgment, but in the rulings
excepted to there was error. As part of the evidence on
which the findings were made, the court, against the objections
of Whitford, the plaintiff in error, allowed a deposition of N.
T. Cherry, taken de bene esse under § 863 of the Revised Statutes, to be read, when it was made to appear before the reading that the witness was himself actually present in court,
ready and able to testify in the case if called. From the opinion filed on the decision of a motion for a new trial, hitfford
v. Clo-k Conty, 13 Fed. Rep. 837, it appears that the court
held the rule on this point "to be that when a deposition in a
civil action has been duly taken, because the witness resides
more than one hundred miles distant, said deposition is admissible, subject, however, to the right of the adverse party to
place him on the witness stand if present. Such is understood

OCTO63ER TERM, - 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

to be the true rule, although decided cases are not fully in
accord.7 But by § 865 of the Revised Statutes it is expressly
prbvided, that, "unless it appears to the satisfaction of the
court that the witness is then dead, or gone out of the United
States, or to a greater distance than one hundred miles from
-the place wheie the court is sitting, or that, by reason of age,
sickness, bodily infirmity, or imprisonment, he is unable to
travel and appear at court, such deposition shall not be used
in the cause." This was first enacted in the judiciary act of
September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 30, 1 Stat. 90, and it has been in
force from that time until now. In Patuasco Is. Co. v.
!Southyate,5 Pet. 604, 617, it was said, in reference to this provision, that "the act declares expressly that, unless the same
(that is, the disability) shall be made to appear on the trial,
such deposition shall not be admitted or used in the cause.
This inhibition does not extend to the deposition of a witness
living at a greater distance from the place of trial than one
hundred miles; he being, considered permanently beyond a
compulsory attendance. The deposition in such case may not
always be absolute, for the party against whom it is to be
used may prove that the witness has removed within the reach
*Of a subpcena after the depositibn was taken; and if that fact
was known to the party, he would be bound to procure his
-personal attendance. The onus, however, of proving this
would rest upon the party opposing the admission of the deposition in evidence. It -is, therefore, a deposition taken de
bene esse." And in The Samel, 1 Wheat. 9, 15, Chief Justice
jMarshall said, a deposition taken: under the statute de bene esse
"can be read only when the witness himself is unattainable."
See also tarris v. Wall, 7 I-ow. 692, and .Rutlterford v.
Geddes, 4 Wall. 220, 224. It thus appears to have been
established at a very early date that depositions taken de bene
esse could not be used in any case at the trial if the presence
of the witne'sg himself was actually attainable, and the party
offering the deposition knew it, or ought to have known it.
If the witness lives more than one hundred miles from the
. place of trial, no subpaeenc need be issued to secure his compulsory attendance. So, too, if he lived more than one hundred

WHITFORD v. CLARK COUNTY.
Opini6n of the Court.

miles away, when his deposition was taken, it will be presumed
that he continued to live there at the time of, the trial, and
no further proof on that subject need be furnished by the
party offering the deposition, unless this presumption shall be
overcome by proof from the other side. But if it be overcome, and the party has knowledge of his power to get the
witness in time to enable him to secure an attendance at the.
trial, he must do so, and the deposition will be excluded.
Such ivas this case. While the witness lived more than one
hundred miles from the place of trial when his deposition was
taken, he was actually in court, ready and able to testify
when his testimony was needed at the trial. His deposition,
therefore, was not admissible. The rulings of the circuit
courts have uniformly been the same way, so far a we know'
While some have.'gone beyond the decision in Patapsco Ins.
Co. v. Southgate, none have fallen short of it. Lessee of
Penns v. Ingrakam, 2 Wash. C. C. 487, decided in 1811;
les~ee q- Brown v. Galloway, Pet. C. C. 291, 294, decided in
"1816; Pettilone v. Derringer,4 Wash. C. 0. 215, 219, decided
in 1818; Eus$ell v. Ashley, Hemp. 546, 549; Ward v. Armstrong, 6 McLean, 44.
As to depositions taken under a dedilms 2otestatern in accordance with § 866 of the Revised Statutes, this provision of
§ 865 does not apply, for it is expressly so enacted in that section. When the statutes of the United States make special
provisions as to the competency or admissibility of testimony,
they must be followed in the courts of the United States, and
not the laws or the practice of the State in which the court is
held when they are different. Potter v. iYatianal Ban.<k, 102
U. S.163, 165; Fing v. TFortldngton,104 U. S.44, 50'; Bradley v. United States, 104 U. S.442; Er parte Fisk, 113 UT. S.
713, 721.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with di-.
rectionsfor a new t'rial.

