OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

was made in accordance with the agreement above referred to.
It is, therefore, entirely immaterial whether the Supreme
Court was right in holding that the exception to the parol
tvidence, taken in the court below was error, since it further
holds that, ,iving full effect to that evidence, it does not prove
anything to impeach the force and effect of the language of
the discharge and release of the mortgage' and note.
We do not think that, on the finding of facts made by the
Supreme Court, there is any doubt of the correctness of its
final decree, and it is, therefore,
4Affrned.

IRON

FOU-NTAIN

AND HELENA RAILROAD v.
JOHNSON.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued December 10, 1886. - Decided January 10, 1887.

There is nothing in the nature of the possession of a railroad, or of a
section of a railroad, which takes it out of the operation of the language
of the Statutes of Arkansas against forcible entry and detainer, or out
of the general principle which lies at the foundation of nl suits of for-'
cible entry and detainer, that the law will not sanction or support a
possession acquired by violence, but will, when appealed to in this form
of action, compel the party who thus gains possession to surrender it
to the party whom he dispossessed, without inquiring which party owns
the property or has the legal right to the possession.

This was an action of forcible entry and detainer. The
case. is stated in the opinion of the court.
-3M. Walter T Smith for plaintiffs in error.
Dillon also filed a brief for them.

Xr. John F.

-Mr. Attonney Genea for defendant in error. 31>. J C.
Taltpan and Al>. JokA J. Hornor were with him on the brief.

IRON iOUNTrAIN & HELENA R'D v. JOHNSON. 609
Opinion of the Court.

Mr.JUSTIcE -ILLEI. delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The suit was commenced by an action of forcible entry and
detainer brought by Johnson, the present defendant in error,
against the Iron Mountain and Helena RLailroad Company,
and the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company was in the 1 rogress of the case made a defendant on its
own petition. The action was to recover possession of eighteeli miles of a railroad which Johnson had built for the defen* dant, and from which he had been ejected by force and violence
by the Iron Mountain and Helena Railroad Company. On'
the trial before a jury Johnson recovered a verdict on which a
judgment was entered for restitution to the possession of the
.road. To reverse this judgment the present writ of error is
brought.
Although there is some controversy about the validity and
effect of the co).itract under which Johnson constructed and
held possession of this eighteen miles of road, part of a largcr
road of the defendant, the main facts on which his right to rccover depend are simple and not much controverted. Whatever may be the truth about the validity and construction of
the contract under which he built the road for the company,
it is fully established that, .after he had built it, and before
they had paid him for it, he was in possession of it, using it
by running his own locomotives over it, and that while thus in
peaceable possession and claiming a right to hold it until he
was paid for building it, he was by force and violence turned
out of this possession by the railroad company, its officers and
agents.
The statute of Arkansas relating to forcible entries and detainers is to be found in Chap. LXVII, Mansfield's Digest,
[1884] as follows:
"SEc. 3346. No person shall enter into or upon any lands,
tenements, or other possessions, and detain or hold the same,
blt where an enty.is given by law, and then only in a peaceable manner.
VOL. cxrx-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 3347. If any person shall enter into or upon any lands,
tenements, or other possessions, and detain or hold the same
with force and stfong hand, or with weapons,. or breaking
open the doors and windows or other parts of the house,
whether any person be in or not; or by threatening to kill,
maim, or beat the party in possession; ... or by entering peaceably and then turning out by.force, or frightening by threats or
other circumstances of terror the party to yield possession; in
such case every person so offending shall be deemed guilty of
a forcible entry and detainer within the meaning of this act."
"SEC. 3368. Ndthing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent any party from proceeding under this act by filing his
complaint and causing an ordinary summons to be issued without filing the affidavit or giving the obligation hereinbefore
required, and in all cases, when the judgment shall be for the
plaintiff, the court shall award him a writ of restitution to
carry such judgment into execution."
The main objection relied upon by plaintiff in error to the
*recovery of the plaintiff below is that a railroad is not real estate, nor such an interest in real estate that it can be recovered- by actions applicable to that class of property. It is
argued that a railroad is a complex kind of incorporeal hereditament, the possession of which is not authorized to be changed
by an action of forcible entry and detainer. We do not think
this objection would be a good one if in the state of Arkansas
that action were left as it was at common. law. The statute
of that state, however, which we have just quoted materially
enlarges the extent and operation of this action. The language of both ยง 3346 and 3347 makes it applicable to "lands,
tenements, or other possessions," and declares that "if any
person shall enter into or upon any lands, tenements, or
other possessions, and detain or hold them with force and
the strong hand, or with weapons, . . . or frightening by
threats or other circumstances of terror the party to yield possession, in such case every person so offending shall be deemed
guilty of a forcible entry and detainer within the meaning of
this act."
We do not see any reason in the *natureof the possession of

IRON MOUNTAIN & HELENA R'D v. JOHNSON. 611
Opinion of the Court.

a section of a railroad which takes it out of -thelanguage of
this statute, or out of the general principle which lies at the
foundation of all suits of forcible entry and detainer. The
general purpose of these statutes is, that, not regarding the actual condition of the title to the property, where any person is
in the peaceable and quiet possession of it, he shall not be
turned out by the strong hand, by force, by violence, or by
terror. The party so using force and acquiring possession may
have the superior title or may have the better right to the
present possession, but the policy of the law in this class of
cases is to prevent disturbances of the public peace, to forbid
any person righting himself in a case of that kind by his own
hand and by violence, and to require that the party who has
in this manner obtained possession shall restore it to the party
from whom it has been so obtained; and then, when the parties are in st( lt,
quo, or in the same position as they were before the use of violence, the party out of possession must resort
to legal means to obtain his possession, as he should have done
in the first instance. This is the philosophy which lies at the
foundation of all these actions of forcible entry and detainer,
which are declared not to have relation to the condition of the
title, or to the absolute right of possession, but to compelling
the party out of possession, who desires to recover it of a person in the peaceable possession, to respect and resort to the
law alone to obtain what he claims.
It occurs to us that this principle is as fully applicable to
the possession of a railroad, or a part of a railroad, as to any
other class of landed interests. And in fact, that, of all owners
or claimants of real estate, large corporations, with vast bodies
of employCs and servants ready to execute their orders, are
the last persons who should be permitted to right themselves
by force. The language of the presiding judge in his charge
to the jury in this case meets our entire approval, and we
quote from it as follows:
"The law will not sanction or support a possession acquired
by such means, but will, on the contrary, when appealed to in
this form of action, compel the party who thus gains possession to surrender it to the party whom he dispossessed, without'

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Opinion of th

Court.

inquiring which party owns the pfoperty or has the legal
right to the possession. If the law was otherWise, force, the
exhibition and use of deadly weapons, and threats of personal
violence, would speedily take the place of lawful and peaceful
methods of gaining possession of property. The law compels
a-defendant, found guilty of a forcible entry and detainer, to
restore the possession. After he has restored the p~ssession so
forcibly and wrongfully acquired, he can then proceed in a
lawful manner to assert his claim to the property; but he cannot have his legal rights to the .property, or its possession,
adjudged or dbtermined in the action of forcible entry and
detainer, when, by his own admission or the proof in the case,
he is shown to be guilty of a forcible entry and detainer. If,
therefore, you find that the plaintiff built'the eighteen miles
of road in controversy, and had been in the quiet -and peaceable possession of the same from the time of its completion,
claiming the right to such possession under the contract, and
that, while so in the quiet and peaceable possession of the
road, Bailey, the president of the defendant corporation, with
a force of men acting in the name and on behalf of the defendant corporation, by force and strong hand, or with weapons,
or by threatening to kill, maim or beat, or by such words and
actions as have a natural tendency to excite fear or apprehension of danger, drove the plaintiff's agents or employes out of
his cars and off the road with the declared purpose of retaining
the possession of the same, then the defendant cQrporation is
guilty of a forcible entry and detainer within the meaning of
0te statutes of this state, and the plaintiff is entitled to your
verdict."
In this view of the case nearly all the questions raised by
counsel for plaintiff in error, in regard to the contract under
which Johnson built this eighteen miles of road, .and held possession of it, and his right to hold possession, are immaterial.
The jury must have found, under this charge, that he was in
the peaceable and quiet possession of the property, and was
ejected from it by the force and violence and wrong doing of
the Iron Mountain and Helena Railroad Company. They

