OCTOBER TERM,

1'883.

Syllabus.

this court, under a registration statute like that in the present
case, that no conclusive effect was given by the statute to the
registration or. to the certificate; that the certificate was no
more comprehensive or efficacious than the statement in the
bond; that such statement did not extend to or cover matters
of law; and that "a certificate reciting the actual facts, and
that thereby the bonds were conformable to the law, when,
judicially speaking, they are not, will not make them so, nor
can it work .an estoppel upon the county to claim the protection of the law."
As the recitals in the bonds here are of no avail to the
plaintiff, as before shown, so the certificate of the auditor.does
not aid him. The bonds on their face excluded the possibility
of their having been issued under the act of March 2d, 1872,
and as the public records showed that the proceedings were.
not taken under that act, and as the auditor was authorized
by ยง 14 of that act only to register bonds 'issued under
that act, and as these bonds did not fall within the purview
,of bonds authorized to be registered by him under ยง 15 of
that act, it follows that the auditor had no right to decide,
as' matter of law, that the bonds were bonds of the kind
which he was authorized by the act of March 2d, 1872, to
register and certify, when, as a matter of law, they were not.
Judgment cfflrmed.

HAPGOOD v. HEWITT.
APPEAL iRO

THE cRicTrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

Argued November 10, 11, 1836.-Decided November 29, 1856.

In a suit in equity by the trustees of a dissolved Missouri corporation to
compel an employ6 of the corporation to convey to the plaintiffs the title
to letters-patent obtained by him for au invention mdde while he was in
tl'eir employ, it not appearing, from the facts set forth in the bill, that

there was any agreement between the employ6 and the corporation, that

IIAPGOOD v. HEWITT.
Opinion of the Court.
it was to have the title to the invention, or to any patent he might obtain
for it, it was held, on demurrer, that the bill could not be sustained.
Although the dissolved corporation assigned its right in the premises to an
Illinois corporation organized by the stockholders of the former, whatever implied license the former had to use the invention was confined to
it, and was not assignable.
The employ6 could bring no suit for infringement against the Missouri
corporation, for it was dissolved; nor any suit in equity against its trus* tees for an infringement, for they were not alleged to be using the invention; and a suit at law against the trustees, or the stockholders, of the
Missouri corporation, for infringement by it, could not be enjoined,
*becauqe the theory of the bill was that there was a perfect defence to
such a suit

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
jfr. Everett WF. Pattiog, (31r. . ewton Cr,'a'w was with
him on the brief,) for appellants, cited: Hietn v. .1ill, 13 Ves.
114; Powell v. Siaulding, 3 Green, (Iowa,) 443 Course v.
Stead, 4 Dall. 22; XfClurgo v. Kingsland,1 How. 202; Continental Thindm ill "Co. v. Einpire .findmill Co., 8 3latchford,
295; Gower v. Andrew, 59 Cal. 119; Grumley v. Webb, 14
Missouri, 444; Brooks v. Byam, 2 Story, 525; Wilson v. Stolly,
5 McLean, 1; Goodyear v. Oongress ?tbbe -Co., 3 Blatchford, 449, Gof v. Obertezfer, 3 Phil. 71 ; Hai'#,rd v. C7ip mTin, 21 Conn. 488; Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582; Tliting v. Graves, 3 Ban. & A. 222; lfilkens v. Spaford, lb. 274.
.M,'. E. E. Wood and .Mr. Edward Boyd, for appellee, submitted on their brief, citing: 3
TcClurg
v. 1Yingsancd, 1 How.
202; Oliver v. Rlrnford Cl1emieal Works, 109 U. S. 75.: Troy
I'on aand Vail _Factoey v. Corn.ing, 14 Row. 193; .Liglener
v. Boston & Albany Railroad,I Lowell, 338.
1. JUSTICE BLTcOmdoi

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of th
United States for the District of Indiana, by Charles H. Hapgood, James H. Iesse, and John Packer, trustees of Hapggood
& Company, a dissolved Missouri corporation, and the Hlapgood Plough Company, an Illinois corporation, against Horace
L. Hewitt. The main object of the suit is to obtain from

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
0pinion of the Court:

Hewitt the transfer of letters-patent granted to him for an
invention. The defendant interposed a general demurrer to
the bill, for want of equity. The Circuit Court sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the bill, 11 Bissell, 184, and the trustees have appealed to this court.
The material allegations of the bill are"as follows: The Missouri corporation was in existence from before August 1sf,
1873, to .January 1st, 1880, when it was dissolved. At the
latter date the three trustees constituted its board of directors,,
and llapgood was president. By virtue of the laws of Missouri, Hapgood and the other two persons became trustees, of
the corporation, with power to settle its affairs and recover
the debts and property belonging to it. Hapgood was the
president of the corporation during its entire existence, and
had the control and management of its business. Allthe offi-'
cers and employ~s were under his direction. He had power,
to hire and discharge all agents aiid employ6s of. every grade,
to determine the classes and kinds of goods that should be
manufactured, and' the general way in which the business
should be conducted. The ,corporation employed a large number of manual laborers, and various employ6s of higher grades,
among them a superintendent, a secretary, a foreman, and a
travelling salesman, all of whom had charge of different departments, but were under the control and direction of th6
,'president as chief executive officer. The duties of the superintendent were to have general charge of the manufacturing
department, subject tc the discretion of the president, and to
devise -and get up such new devices, arrangements, and improvements in the ploughs manufactured as should adapt them
to the market, and as should be needed from time to time to
suit the wants of customers. Shortly before August 1st, 1873,
Hewitt represented to the corporation\that he was a man of
large experience in mechanical pursuits; that he had been for
several years immediately preceding engaged with Avery &
Sons, plough manufacturers inLouisville, and had been since
1868 familiar with the manufacturing of ploughs and agricultural implements; that he had been instrumental in devising
and getting up the best ploughs manufactured by Avery & Sons;

HA1VGOOD v. HEWITT.
Opinion of the Court.

that the mpst valuable improvements in the ploughs manufactured by them had been devised by him and adopted at his
suggestion and instigation; that since 1869 he had given his
undivided attention to'the manufacture of ploughs, and understood thoroughly the different kinds of ploughs in the market,
and the classes of ploughs needed for the trade; and that he
could and would give to any manufacturer who should secure
his services the benefit of his experience in devising and making improvements in the ploughs manufactured., In consequence of these'representations and relying upon them, the corporation employed Hewitt to devote his time and services to
getting up, improving, and perfecting ploughs and other goods,
and to introducing the same; and, that he might be more
fully identified with the corporation, iepurchased one share
of its stock, and was elected vice-president. At some time in
1874, Hewitt increased his interest in the company by purchasing one half of the shares owned by the president. As a'part
of the same transaction, it was agreed between Hewitt and the
corporation, that, from that date, Hewitt should fill the position of superintendent of the manufacturing departmen, anu
as such, not only exercise a general supervision, over that department, subject to the president, but also devote his time
and services to devising improvements in, and getting up and
'perfecting, ploughs adapted to the general trade of the corporation. He accepted the position and held it until the fall of
1877, when his connection with the corporation ceased. ' He
agreed, in such new position, to use his best efforts, and devote
his knowledge and skill, in devising and making imlrovementsin the ploughs manufactured by the corporation, and in getting
up and perfecting ploughs and other agricultural implements
adapted to its trade. In view of the expected value of his
services in this latter direction, the corporation was induced to
pay him, and did pay him,a salary of $3000 a, year. It was
manufacturing a plough known as a sulky or riding plough, so
arranged that the plough was carried on a frame supported by
wheels, and that the driver of the horses rode on the frame.
Down to the year 1876, this sulky plough had a wooden frame.
During that year, it was thought desirable by the officers of

-OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the corporation that a change should be made, by the substitution of ai iron frame for the wooden one. The officers, including Hewitt, had frequent conversations during the winter
of 1875-6 with reference to such change. In those conversations, and in personal conversations with Hewitt, the president stated that he was anxious to retain in the iron sulky all
the essential features of the wooden sulky, so far as was consistent with the use of an iron frame, and suggested otheq features
which he thought it important to adopt in the new plough,
and Black, a salesman, urged the importance of having an iron
axle of an arched form. As the result of these conversations
and deliberations, Hewitt was, early in the summer of 1876,
directed by the president to proceed at once to devise and build
an iron sulky plough according to the suggegtigns so made, that
is, that he should retain in the new plough all the valuable
features of the wooden sulky, which the corporation had been
manufacturing, should construct the plough of wrought and
malleable- iron, should adopt the other features suggested by
the president and the arch suggested by Black, and should
add such additional ,features as might seem advantageous to
him,' Hewitt. lie was directed to proceed with the work
without delay, so that the corporation might be ready to manufacture the new plough for the season of 1877. In accordance with those directions, Hewitt devised and constructed a
sulky plough of wrought and malleable iron, and, after some
delays, about the 1st of April, 1877, produced a plough satisfactory to the president. During all the time that he was engaged in devising and constructing the new plough, he was in
the employ of the corporation, and drawing a salary of $3000
a year. The time during which he was so engaged was the
regular -vorking hours in the factory. The men who did the
manual labor on the new plough were all employ4s of, and paid
by, the corporation;' and all the materials used in its construction were bought and paid for by the corporation. The work,
as it'progressed, was under the general superintendence of
Hewitt, but the work in the respective departments was also
under the special superintendence of the respective foremen of
those departments, who were also paid by the corporation.

HAPGOOD v. HEWITT.

231

Opinion bf the Court.

During the whole time of the construction of the ploughit was
understood by all the parties engaged therein, and by those, at
whose instance its construction was' commenced, that it was
being devised and constructed for the use and benefit of the
corporation, and as a model for the future construction of
sulky ploughs by it. After the plough was completed, and
had been accepted by the president as satisfactory. the latter
directed Hewitt to go to Chicago and have the necessary malleable castings made for the construction of ploughs after the
model. Hewitt did so, obtaining at Chicago castings, moulds,
and other things necessary for the future building of ploughs
after the model. During the time so spent, he was drawing
his regular salary; and all his expenses, as well as the price of
the models, castings, and other things obtained by him, were
paid by the corporation. During the time Hewitt remained in
its employ, he never made any claim of property in any of thedevices and improvements made or suggested by him in the'
new plough, and never stated or claimed that he was entitled
to a patent on any of said improvements, or that he had any
rights adverse to the corporation'in any of said improvements
or devices, and never, during the term of his employment, asserted any right to a patent in his own name for such improvements or devices, or any of them. After his connection
with the corporation had ceased, and after he had made an
arrangement with the president, whereby the latter bought
back all his (Hewitt's) stock in the corporation, and after the
corporation had been for many months, with the knowledge of
Hewitt, engaged in the manufacture of such ploughs, Hewitt,
on January 14th, 1878, applied for a patent on the improvements in the plough, and, on the 26th of March, 1878, a patent
was granted to him, covering certain parts of the plough, being
devices which had been theretofore used by the corporation,
with his knowledge and consent. After this patent was issued, he, for the first time, claimed, as he has since claimed,
that he had and has an exclusive right to manufacture such
parts. of the plough as are covered by the patent, and has
threatened to enforce his rights under the patent as against the
corporation, its representatives, successors, and assigns, and to
hold them liable in damages for any infringement of the same.

OCTOB3ER 'r RM, , 1886,
Opinion of tbe' Court.

The bill also alleges that, in, devising and constructing the
plough,Hewitt, was only performing his duty as an ernploy6 of
the corporation; and carying out his contract with it; that he
.ivas doing only what he was 'hired and paid to do; that the
i6sult of his labors belonged to the corporation; that it
became, in equity and good conscience, the true and rightful
owner of the right to manufacture the plough; that, if there is
aniy part thereof which is patentable, the patent belonged to
te corporation'as equitable assignee of Hewitt; and that he
was and is.bound, in equity and good conscience, to make an
assignment of the patent to the corporation or to its trustees.
The bill also alleges, that, upon the dissolution of the corporation of Hapgood & Company, the stockholders "thereof
organized another corporation, under the laws of Illinois,
- under the name bf the Hapgood Plough Company, one of the
plaintiffs; that the Hapgood Plough Coipany succeeded to the
business of the prior corporation, and became by assignment
from it the owner of all the latter's assets, whether legal or
equitable, including the rights in the patent issued to .Hewitt,.
which such prior corporation had or was entitled to, wnether
legal or equitable, and its right to manufacture a sulky plough
in accordance with the model plough made by eWitt, including all the devices covered oi claimed to be covered by the
patent; and that all the rights in the premises which the priQr
corporation had have been fully transferred to and vested in
the new. corporation. The bill then alleges a -refusal by
Hewitt -to assign the patent to the plaintiffs, and that he
claims to hold it adversely to them.
The prayer of the bill is for a decree directing the defend-

'ant'to make an assignment of the patent, or of such interest
as he may have therein, and of all his rights thereunder, to
the Hapgood Plough Company, assignee of Hapgood & Company, or to the'trustees of Hapgood & Company, in trust for
the Uapgood- Plough Company, vesting the title to the patent,
or to the defendant's rights thereunder, in the Hapgood Plough
Company, or in said trustees in trust for that corporation, and
that he be enjoined .and restrained from" maintaining any
action at law or in equity for any infringement of the patent"

HAFP0OOD. v. HEWITT.
Opinion, of the, Court.

by Hapgood .& Company, or for the use by that corporation
of any of the devices or improvements covered by the patent.
The decision' of the Circuit Court, 11 Bissell, 184, was
placed on the ground (1) that Hewitt was not expressly required,eby his contract, to exercise his inventive faculties for
the benefit of his,employer,, and there was nothing in the bill
from which it could be fairly inferred that he was required or
expected to do so; (2) that, whatever right the employer had
to the invention-by the terms of Hewitt's contract of" employment, was a'naked license to make and sell the patented improvement as a.part of its business, which right, if it existed,
was a mere personal one, and not transferable, and was 6xtinguished with the dissolution of the corporation.
We are of opinion that the views taken of the case by the
Circuit Court were correct. There is nothing set forth in the
bill, as to any agreement between the corporation and Hewitt,
that the former was to have the title to his inventions or to
any patent that he might obtain for them. The utmost that
ean be made out of the allegations is, that the corporation was
to have a.license or right to use the inventions in making
ploughs. It is not averred that anything passed between the
parties as to a patent. We are not referred to any case which
sustains the view, that, on such'facts -as are alleged in the bill.
the title to the invention or to a patent for it passed. In
2fcOlug v. .ingsland, 1 How. 202, the facts were in some
respects like those in the present case, but the decision only
went to the point- that the facts justified the presumption of a
license to the employer to use the invention, as a defence by
him to a suit for the infringement of the patent taken out by
the employ6.
The Circuit Coftrt cases referred to do not support the
plaintids' suit.
In Continental TVindraill Co. v. Empire
Windmill Co., 8 Blatchford, 295, there was an agreement that
the employ& should rceive $500 for any patentable improvement he might make. In Whiting v. Graves,3 Ban. & A. 222,
it was held that an employment to invent machinery for use,
in a particular factory, would operate as a license to the employer to use the machinery invented, but would not confer

OCTOBER TER-I, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

on the employer any legal title to the invention or to a
patent for it. In Tlkens v. 8_pfd, 3 Ban. & A. 274, the
contract was that the employer should have the exclusive
benefit of the inventive faculties of the employ6, and of such
inventions as he should make during the term of service.
-Whatever license resulted to the M issouri corporation, from
the facts of the case, to use the invention, was one comned to
that corporation, and not assignable by it. Tr'oy R,on & _ ,il
Factory v. Corning, 14 :ow. 193, 216; Olivew v. Th'ford
COernieal TFor8, 109 U. S. 75, 82. The Missouri corporation
was dissolved. Its stockholders organized a"new corporation
under the'laws of Illinois, which may naturally have succeeded
to the business of the prior corporation, but the express averment of the bill is, that it took by assignment the rights it
claims in this suit. Those rights, so far as any title to the
invention or patent is concerned, never existed in the assignor.
As to any implied license to the assignor, it could not pass to
the assignee.
As to so much of the prayer of the bill as asks that Hewitt
be enjoined from maintaining any action at law or in equity
for any alleged infringement of the patent by the prior corporation, or for its use of any of the devices or improv'ements
covered by the patent, which is all there is left of the prayer
of the bill, any suit to be brought would not be a suit against
the corporation, for it is dissolved; and could not be a suit in
equity against its trustees, for they are not alleged to be using
the invention. It could only be a suit at law against the
trustees 6r the stockholders of the old corporation, for infringement by it while it existed. The theory of the bill is, that
there is a perfect defence to such a suit. In such a case a
court of equity, certainly a Circuit Court of the United States,
will not interfere to enjoin even a pending suit at law, much
less the bringing of one in the future. GCrand CItute v. ,Tide-'
gar, 15 Wall. 373; 1 High on Injunctions, ยง 89 to 93, and
cases there cited.
Decree acfflrind.

