CASES ADJUDGED
n THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER -TERM, 1886.

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW NATION.
APPEALS 1RO

-HE

COURT OF CLAD S.

Argued October 19, 20, 21, 1SS.-Deceided November 15, 1836.

The relations between the United States and the Indian tribes, being those
of a superior towards an inferior who is under its care and control, its
acts touching them and its promises to them, in the execution of its own
policy and in the furtherance of its own interests, are to be interpreted
as justice and reason demand in cases where power is exerted by the
strong over those to whom they owe care and protection. United States
v. Kagaina, 118 U. S. 375, cited and applied.
The Act of March 3, 1881, 21 Stat. 504, authorizing the Court of Claims "to
take jurisdiction of and try all questions of difference arising out of treaty
stipulations with the Choctaw nation, and to render judgment thereon,"
and granting it power to review the entire question of differences.de
novo, and providing that "it shall not be estoppcd by any action had or
award made by the Senate of the United States in pursuance of the
Treaty of 1855," denied to that award conclusive effect as res judicata,
but did not set it aside, or deny to it, effect as prima facie evidence of
the validity of the claims adjudged by it. The act operated to reopen that
award and the questions decided by it so far as to cast upon the United
States, in the trial in the Court of Claims, the burden of disproving the
justice and fairness of the award.
By the terms of the submission in the Treaty of June 22, 1855, 11 Stat. 611,
VOL. C-XI-X-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
under which the Senate acted as arbitrator of the differences between
the United States and the Choctaws, it was 'clearly submitted to that
body to determine whether, under all the circumstances, and as a matter of
justice and fair dealing, the Choctaws ought to receive the proceeds of
the sale of the lands ceded by them to the United States by the Treaty
of September 27, 1830, 7 Stat. 333, whether as deducible from the terms
of the treaty, or as a just compensation to be awarded to them for its
breaches. The delegation by the Senate to the Secretary of the Interior
to ascertain and report the detailed sums due the Choctaws upon the
'principles settled by the award was within the powers conferred upon
that body by the terms of the submission. No notice to the United
States was necessary of the intention of the Senate to proceed as arbitrator under the submission. And the whole proceedings were ratified
and confirmed by the United States by the Acts of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat.
238; and of June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 230.
The award of the Senate upon the differences between the Choctaws and
the'United States submitted to it under the provisions of the Treaty of
June 22, 1855, furnishes the nearest approximation to the justice and
right of the case that, after the lapse of time, it is practicable for a'
judicial tribunal to reach; and, not being affected by any of the facts
found by the Court of Claims, is taken by this Court as 'the basis of its
judgment on the subjects in dispute in this case, which arose prior to
the treaty of 1855, and were passed upon in the award., In addition to
the amount of that award, the Choctaw nation is entitled to further sums,
(1) for unpaid annuities; and (2) for land taken from them in locating
the boundary of Arkansas under the Act of MAarch 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 476.

The following is the case as stated by the court:
There are two appeals in this case, one by the Choctaw
Nation, and the other by the United States, from a judgment
rendered by the Court of Claims in favor of the former for the
sum of $408,120.32. Jurisdiction of the cause was conferred
,upon that court by the provisions of an act of Congress approved March 3, 1881, 21 Stat. 504, entitled "An sct for the
ascertainment of the amount due the Choctaw Nation," as
follows:
"That the Court of Claims is hereby authorized to take
jurisdiction of and try all questions of difference arising out
of treaty-stipulations with the Choctaw Nation, and to render
judgment thereon; power is hereby granted the said court to
review the entire question of differences de novo, and it shall
not be estopped by any action had or award made by the

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED* STATES,
Statement of Facts.

Senate of the United States in pursuance of the treaty of
eighteen hundred and fifty-five; and the Attorney General
is hereby directed to appear in behalf of the Government;
and if said court shall decide against the United States, the
Attorney General shall, within thirty days from the rendition
of judgment, appeal the cause to the Supreme Court of the
United States; and from any judgment that may be rendered
tho said Choctaw Nation may also appeal to said Supreme
Court: Provided, The appeal of said Choctaw Nation shall
be taken within sixty days after the rendition of said judgment, and the said courts shall give such cause precedence.
"See. 2. Said action shall be commenced by a petition stating the facts on which said nation claims to recover, and 'the
amount of its claim; and said petition may be .verified by
either of the authorized delegates of said nation as to the existence of such facts, and no other statements need be contained
in said petition or verification."
In pursuance of this act, the Choctaw Nation filed its original petition on the 13th of June, 1881, which was subsequently
amended by new pleadings filed February 26, 1884. The questions of difference between the United States and the petitioner, it was alleged, resulted from the non-performance and
non-fulfilment by the United States of the obligations assumed
by it wider various treaties between the United States and the
Choctaw Nation, including those of the following' dates, to
wit: the 18th day of October, 1820, the 20th day of January,
1825, the 27th day of September, 1830, the 22d day of June,
1855, and the 28th day of April, 1866.
By the terms of the treaty of October 18, 1820, 7 Stat. 210,
it was provided, amongst other things, that the Choctaw Nation did cede to the United States 511 thftt part of its lands
situated in the State of Mississippi described in the 1st article
of the treaty, in consideration whereof the United States stipulated that in part satisfaction for the said cession the United
States ceded to the Choctaw Nation a tract of country west
of the Mississippi River, situated between the Arkansas and
Red 'Rivers, the boundaries of which were therein described;
and also that the boundaries thereby established between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

Choctaw Indians and the United States, east of the Mississippi
River, should remain without alteration until the period at
which the nation should become so civilized and- enlightened
as to be made citizens of the United States. It was agreed
that Congress should lay off a limited parcel of land for the
benefit of each family or individual in the nation; that all
those who had separate settlements falling within the limits
of the land ceded by the Choctaw nation to the United States,
and who desired to remain there, should be secured in a tract
or parcel of land one mile square, to include their improvements; and that those preferring to remove within one year
from the date of the treaty should be paid their full value,
including the value of any improvements.
It is alleged inthe petition that, by the treaties of January
20, 1825, 7 Stat. 234, of September 27, 1830, 7 Stat. 333, and
of June 02, 1855, 11 Stat. 611, the boundary line between the
lands of the United States and the Choctaws west of the Mississippi River was established, but that the United States, in
fixing and causing to be surveyed the said boundary line, didnot pursue the line in accordance with the provisions of the
said treaties, but encroached upon and took from the lands
ceded to the Choctaw Nation a quantity of land amounting to
136,20,.02 acres, which by the legislation of the United States,
in violation of these provisions of the treaties, becamb a part
of the public domain of the United States, for which the
Choctaw Nation are entitled to recover their value, estimated
at $167,896.57.
The petition further states that, in the treaty concluded on
the 27th September, 1830, called the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit.
Creek, it was provided, among other things, by the 3d article
thereof, 7 Stat. 333, that the Choctaw Nation should and did
thereby cede to the United States the, entire country they then
owned and possessed east of the Mississippi River, and agreed
to remove beyond the Mississippi River as early as practicable;
and that, in pursuance of this treaty the Choctaw Nation surrendered to the United States all the remaining lands at that
time owned by them in the State of Mississippi, amounting, as
is alleged, to 10,423,139 acres, and, in compliance with the

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

treaty on their part, commenced to remove, and did remove,
within the time stipulated therein, or within a reasonable time
thereafter, from the said lands to the lands purchased and acquired by them under the terms of the treaty of October 18,

1820.
By the 14th article of the treaty of September 27, 1830, it
was provided that each Choctaw head of a family, being desirous to remain and become a citizen of the States, should be
permitted to do so by signifying his intention to the agent
within six months of the ratification of the treaty, and thereupon should be entitled to a reservation of one section of 640
acres of land, to be bounded by sectional lines of survey; and
in like manner should be entitled to one half that quantity for
each unmarried child living with him over ten years of age,
and a quarter section for each child that might be under ten
years of age, to adjoin the location of the parent. If they
resided upon such lands, intending to become citizens of the
States, for five years after the ratification of the treaty, a
grant in fee simple should issue. Such reservation should in"eudethe present improvement of the head of the family, or a
portion of it, and the persons who claimed under the article
were not to lose the privilege of Choctaw citizenship.
It is ,alleged in the petition that 1585 heads of Choctaw
families signified their intention to remain on their lands in
Mississippi and become citizens under this article of the treaty;
and that, although they substantially complied with all its
requirements and conditions, and thereby became entitled to
grants of land in fee simple, as specified in the article, yet but
143 such families ever received from the United States their
title to the lands guaranteed them by the article, leaving 1442
of the said Choctaw heads of families entitled to a grant of
their lands in fee simple, under the provisions of said article 14,
whose claims had not been satisfied.
It is alleged in the petition that the lands to which these
families were entitled amounted to 1,672,760 acres, which were
reasonably worth, with the improvements, $5.50 an acre, and
that the value of the whole was $9,200,180.
It is further alleged in the petition that the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

having failed to secure to each Choctaw head of a family the
reservation secured under article 14 of the treaty of 1830, subsequently, by an act of Congress approved August 23, 1842,
5 Stat. 513, attempted to provide compensation for the same
by the issue and delivery of certificates or scrip, which authorized those entitled to such reservations, or their assignees, to
enter any of the public lands subject to entry at private sale
in'the States of Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, or Arkansas,
which certificates or scrip they were required by said act to
receive and accept in full satisfaction of all their claims or
demands against the United States under said article 14.
It is further alleged in the petition that 292 of the 1442
Choctaw heads of .families, entitled to grants in fee simple
under article 14 of the treaty of 1830, have never received any
such grants in fee simple, or any allowance or compensation
what6ver for the same. The claims of 1150 of said 1442 heads
of families were adjudicated and allowed under the act of
August 23, 1842, and certificates or scrip awarded to them
under the provisions of said act, authorizing the entry of
1,399,920.acres of land, of which there were paid and delivered
to the persons entitled to receive the same 3833 certificates or
pieces of scrip, authorizing the entry of 700,080 acres of land.
The certificates for the residue of said 1,399,920 acres, to wit,
for 699,840 acres, were not issued, but were withheld under an
act of Congress approved March 3, 1845, 5 Stat. 777, which
provided that they should carry an interest of five per cent.,
payable to the claimants or their representatives, to be estimated upon $1.25 for each acre of land to which they were
entitled. The aggregate amount, or principal sum, thus
funded, amounting to $872,000, was afterwards, under an act
of Congress approved July 21, 1852, 10 Stat. 19, paid in
money to the claimants; which sum of $872,000 was included
in the sum of $1,749,900 subsequently charged to the claimants in an account referred to hereafter, being for 1,399,920
acres of scrip, in lieu of reservations, at $1.25 per acre; of
which sum of $1,749,900, $872,000 Was paid as aforesaid in
money, the residue, $877,900, being charged in said account
for the certificates or scrip authorizing the entiy of 700,080

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

acres of land, delivered as aforesaid to the said claimants;, for
which 700,080 acres in scrip the said claimants were charged
at the rate of $1.25 per acre, although, by reason of the acts of
the United States and its agents in delivering'said scrip at

places where it could not be used, the whole amount realized
by the claimants was $118,400, and no more. So that the
amount chargeable against the Choctaw Nation should have
been the sum of $980,400, and is all that should be deducted
from the $9,200,180, the estimated value of the lands for
which they claim the right to recover in this proceeding.
It is further alleged that, by the 16th article of said treaty,
the United States agreed to remove thie Choctaws to their
new homes; to furnish them with ample corn, beef, and pork
for twelve months after reaching there; to take- all of their
cattle .at an appraised value, and pay for the same in money;
but it is alleged that, between 1834 and 1846, 960 members of
the Choctaw Nation emigrated and subsisted for one year
without assistance from the United States, for each of which
060 the Choctaw Nation is entitled to recover $54.161 from
the United States, making the total amount claimed $51,998.40.
It is further alleged that, under the provisions of article 19
of, said treaty of 1830, four sections of land were reserved to
Col. David Folsom, two of which should include his present
improvement; two sections each were reserved to eight persons therein named, to include their improvements, and to be
bounded by sectional lines, which might be sold with the consent of the President; and for others not otherwise provided
for, there were reserved, 1st, one section to each head of a
family, not exceeding forty, who had in actual cultivation fifty
acres or more, with a dwelling-house thereon; 2d, three quarter-sections, after the manner aforesaid, to each head of a
family, not exceeding 460, who had cultivated between thirty
and fifty acres; 3d, one half-section, as aforesaid, to those,
not to exceed 400, who had cultivated from twenty to thirty
acres; 4th, a quarter-section to such, not to exceed 350, as had
cultivated from twelve to twenty acres; and half that quantity to such as had cultivated from two to twelve acres, limited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

to the same number; each class to be so located as to include
the improvement containing the dwelling-house. These reservations might be sold with the consent of the President of the
United States; but should any prefer it, or omit to take such
reservation as he might -be entitled to, the United States
would, upon, his removal and arrival at his new home, pay
,him fifty cents an acre therefor, provided proof of his claim
be made before the 1st of Tanuary following.
It is further alleged that said article 19 intended to provide
458,400 acres for 1600 cultivators, yet in carrying out the
treaty land was assigned to but 731, amounting in all to 123,680 acres; that the actual number of cultivators of from two
.to twelve acres at the da'te of the treaty was 1763, instead of
350; that 1413, therefore, failed to get any land at all, owing
to the limitations of said article 19; that while the treaty
intended to provide reservations for 1600 cultivators, such
reservations were assigned to only 731, although. the number
of actual cultivators was 2144; that the 1413 cultivators thus
excluded contended that they were justly entitled to the same
measure of compensation for their improvements as was
,allowed to other cultivators of equal grade, to wit, 80 acres to
each, amounting to 113,040 acres, worth at that time $339,120;
that of the 731 to whom were assigned lands as aforesaid, 143
had never received any land or other benefit intended to be
secured by said article 19; 45 of whom relinquished to the
United States 6400 acres of land and never received compensation therefor, and the remaining 98, to whom 15,520 acres of
land were assigned, never had any land set apart for them;
that the said 143 cultivators were entitled to 21,920 acres,
worth the sum of $65,760.
It is further alleged that article 20 of said treaty of 1830
provided-for each warrior who emigrated, a rifle, moulds, and
ammunition; that 1458 warriors became entitled to the benefits of article 20, but they were never received by a large number who emigrated; that such articles were worth at that time
$13.50 to .each warrior, and that. the whole amount claimed,
by the failure of the United States to carry out the provision
of said article 20, was $19,278.

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

It is further alleged that.the act of Congress, maldug hppropriation for the expenses of the Indian Department, and' for
fulfilling treaty stipulations with the various ndian tribes, for
the year ending Tune 30, 1846, approved March 3, 1845, 5 Stat.
777, provided as follows:
"That of the scrip which has been awarded, or which shall
be awarded, to Choctaw Indians under the provisions of the
law of twenty third August, one thousand eight hundred and
forty two, that portion thereof not deliverable East, by the
third section of said law, in these words, ' not more than onehalf of which shall be delivered to said Indian until after his
removal to the Choctaw territory west of the Mississippi,' shall
not be issued or delivered in the West, but the amounts
awarded for land on which they resided, but which it is impossible for the United States now to give them, shall carry
an interest of five per cent., which the United States will pay
annually to the reservees under the treaty of one thousand.
eight hundred and thirty, respectively, or to their heirs and
legal representatives forever, estimating the land to which
they may be entitled at one dollar and twenty five cents per
acre."
That the Choctaw heads of families and their children
became entitlkd to receive scrip for 697,600 acres of land,
valued at $872,000; that said Choctaw heads of families, their
heirs and legal representatives, became entitled to interest
thereon from March 3, 1845, ,but the United States refused tb
pay such interest unless the person entitled to receive it was
at the date of the passage of said act settled in the Choctaw
territory west of the :Mississippi River, and also refused to pay
such interest on scrip issued subsequent to March 3, 1845,
until the beneficiary had removed to the Choctaw territory;
that th6se persons for whose benefit the scrip was funded were
entitled to interest on such funded scrip from March 3, 1845,
until July 21, 1852, but the United States did not pay the
fnterest on such funded scrip between those dates; and that
the amount of such interest due from the United States was
$305,551, but only $171,400.34 of interest was paid on such
scrip, leaving due thereon $134,150.66.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

It is farther alleged that the Choctaw Nation, by the 4th
article of the treaty of October 18, 1820, was secured in the
right to occupy and enjoy forever the lands retained east of
the Mississippi River, which were by the provisions of said
article to be set apart to each family or member of the
Choctaw Nation, when that nation should become so civilized
and enlightened as to be made citizens of the United States;
that the United States agreed, by the 7th article of the treatyof 1825, not to apportion said lands 'for the bcnefit of the
Choctaw Nation but with the consent of that nation; that the
legal effect of said article 4 of the treaty df 1820, and of
article 7 of the treaty of 1825, was to secure to the heads of
families and individual members of the Choctaw Nation a
title in fee shple to all lands belonging to that nation not
included in the cession made by the treaty of 1820, but that
the United States having, by. the treaty of 1830, disregarded
the obligations of said articles 4 and 7, and having paid for
said lands ceded by the Choctaw Nation, under the treaty of
1830, an inadequate consideration, the Choctaw Nation was
entitled to be paid by the United States the whole amount of
'theproceeds resulting from the sale of said lands so ceded.
It is further dlleged that the Choctaw Nation, by its legislative assembly, on November 9, 1853, created a delegation to
settle all unsettled business with the United States; that on.
the 22d of June, 1855, the United States entered into a treaty
with the Choctaw Nation to settle and adjudicate all matters
of difference, claims, or demands of that nation, or individual
members thereof; that subsequent to the ratification of said
treaty .bythe United States, the Senate of the United States
enteredl upon the examination and a'djudication of the questions submitted to it..by article 11 of that treaty, whereupon
a statement of the claims and demands of the Choctaw+ Natiai
upon the Ujaited States, -with supporting evidence, was presented to the' Senate- t enable it to give such dlaims a just,
fair, and liberal consideration.; that after conisideration tf such
* claims, the Senate, on thle 9th of March, 1859, passed a resolhtion to allow the Choetaws the proceeds of the 'sale of such
lands as had been-sold'by the United States on January 1,.

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

-

1859, deducting therefrqm the cost of survey and sale, and all
proper expenditures -and payments under the treaty of 1830,
excluding the reservations allowed and secured, and estimating
the scrip issuel in lieu thereof at $1.25 per acre, and that they
be allowed 121 cents per acre for the residue of said lairds.
It is further alleged that, in pursuance of said resolution, the
Secretary of the Interior caused an account to be stated between the United States and the Choctaw Nation, showing
that the United States were indebted to said nation, on account
of the net proceeds of the lands ceded by the treaty of September, 1830, in the sum of $2,981,247.30.
It is also alleged that, unae~r the treaty of June 22, 1855, 11
Stat. 611, in consideration of the claims heretofore stated, and
of the cession and lease of 15,000,000 acres of land, valued at
2,225,000, the United States agreed that all the rights and
claims of the Choctaw Nation, and the individuals thereof, and
all matters in dispute, should receive a just, fair, and liberal
consideration and settlement; that by virtue thereof the Choctaw Nation became entitled to a settlement of and payment for
all their pending rights and claims; individual and national,
free from all waivers or estoppels which might in equity have
been interposed against them; and that, by virtue of article 11
of the treaty of June, 1855, and of the consideration paid to
the United States therefor, th6 Choctaw Nation became entitled, by virtue of article 18 of the treaty of 1830, whenever
well-founded doubts should- arise, to have said treaty construed
most favorably toward the Choctaws.
In said petition the Choctaw N ation prays that the award
of the Senate of the United States be made final, and that the
account stated by the Secretary of the Interior may be restated,
in order that the balance due may be determined and the iollowing 6rrors corrected; that the proceeds of the lands sold up
to January 1, 1859, and the residue then remaining unsold, at
12 cents per acre, amounted to $8,413,418.61, instead of
$8,078,614.80; that the actual cost of survey and sale was
$256,387.74, instead of $1,042,313.96; that the sum of $120,826.76 for reservations to orphans was not deducted, included
in or connected with the aggregate fund against which it is

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

charged in said account; that there should not have been
deducted from said aggregate fund the payments made to meet
contingent expenses of the commissioners appointed to adjust
claims under the 14th article of the treAty of September, 1830,
amounting to $51,320.79, nor the expenses growing out of the
location and sale of Choctaw reservations, and perfecting titles
to the same, amounting to S21,408.36; that the correction of
the foregoing errors would show a balance payable to the
Choctaw Nation, under the award of the Senate, of $4,295,533.24, instead of $2,981,247.30, for which sum the Choctaw
Nation prays judgment, after deducting $250,000 paid on
account of said award under the act of March 2, 1861, and the
-further sum of $250,000 in bonds appropriated by said act;
and also prays that interest be allowed on this latter sum at six
per centum per annum from March 2, 1861, until paid.
It is further alleged that, under the act of Congress approved
March 2, 1S6I, the Choctaw Nation became entitled to receive
from the United States -250,000 in bonds bearing interest at
six per centum per annum, as a payment on account of said
award of the Senate of the United States; that the issue and
delivery of said bonds -xias demanded by the Choctaw Nation
in April, 1861, but said bonds were not and never have been
issued and delivered to it, nor has it received from the United
States any payment of money in lieu of said bonds; that said
Choctaw Nation claims from the United States on account of
said award the said sumn of $250,000, with interest at six per
centum per annum from the (late when demand for said bonds
was made until paid; that the claims of the Choctaw Nation
against the United States, but for the adjudication thereof by
the Senate, would amount to $8,4:32,349.78, for which the
.Choctaw Nation would be entitled to recover judgment, with
interest at five per centum, from September 27, 1830 ; and that
there remaihs due and payable to the Choctaw Nation from
the United States on account of the award of the Senate, after
deducting therefrom the said sum of $500,000, the sum of
$3,195,533.24, on.which the ChoctaiW Nation claims interest at
five per centum per annum.
It is also alleged that, between July l, 1861,..and July 1,

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

1866, there became due from the United States to the Choctaw Nation, under various treaty stipulations made prior to
July 1, 1861, the sum of $406,284.93, of which amount it is
admitted the United States may legally retain $346,835.61,
leaving a balance due of $59,449.32.
It is further alleged that the questions of difference existing
between the Choctaw Nation and the United States result
from the non-fulfilment of treaty stipulations, and relate
exclusively to claims which can now only be satisfied by the
payment of such sums -as the United States ought under its
treaties to pay.to said Choctaw Nation, which are as follows:
1st, Claims upon the basis. of the Senate award, and of the
correctness of the account stated by the Secretary of the Interior May 8, 1860, amounting to $2,958,593.19, with interest
on the balance due on the award of the Senate at five per
cent., and on the bonds authorized by Congress at six per
cent., until paid; 2d, Amount due under the award, after
correcting errors in the account stated by the Secretary of
the Interior, $4.272,879.13, to which add interest on balance
due under the award of the Senate from March 9, .859, at
five per cent., and on bonds authorized by Congress from
March 2, 1861, at six per cent., until paid; 3d, Amohnt claimed
in case the award of the Senate, under article 11 of the treaty
of June 22, 1855, should be set aside, $8,659,695.67, with
interest on the 14th article claims of $7,808,668.80, from
August 24, 1836, until paid; 4th, Claims of the Choctaw Nation
against the United States, stated upon the principle that the
United States retain the lands acquired by the treaty of September 27, 1830, in trust for the benefit of the Choctaw
Nation, and, as trustee, are bound to account for the value
of said lands, after deducting therefrom the amounts paid to
the Chbctaw Nation on account of said lands.
The petition further prays, that if none of the above methods of stating its claims against the United States are such as
can be approved and sanctioned, and if the court may rightfully ignore the Senate award and examine the matter de navo,
then the Choctaw Nation may be considered as having been
required, in violation of the treaties of October, 1820, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

January, 1825, to cede to the United States the lands described
in the treaty of September, 1830, and that the court will declare that the United States, from and after the treaty of
September, 1830, held such lands as the trustee for the benefit
of the Choctaw Nation, and were bound to account for the
proceeds resulting from the sale thereof; that the .court will
ascertain the amount realized by the United States from the
sale of such lands, and cause an account to be stated in
respect thereto, and charge against the same the value of all
payments on account of said lands by the United States; that
upon such accounting a judgment may be rendered for the
balance found due, with interest thereon; and that the Choctaw Nation have judgment for the amount of the annuities
due to it from July 1, 1861, to July 1, 1866, amounting to
,$59,449.32, and also for the sum of $167,896.57, being the
value of the lands taken from the Choctaw Nation by the
United States in locating the western boundary of the State
of Arkansas.
The United States, in addition to a general denial, filed a
special plea, alleging that by the 14th article of the treaty of
1830 each Choctaw head of a family who desired to remain in
Mississippi and become a citizen of the State was to be permitted to do so upon signifying his intention to the agent of the
United States within six months from the ratification of the
treaty, whereupon he should be entitled to a reservation of
land including his improvement, and, should he live upon the
land for five years thereafter, a grant in fee simple should
issue to him. That within the six months 100 heads of Choctaw families signified their intention to remain and become
citizens of the States and their names were registered. That
on August 12, 1833, the ceded lands were directed to be sold,
and an agent was appointed to locate the reservations of those
intending to remain. That many who were not registered
applied for reservations, but were not recogmized, yet, it appearing that they had signified their intention in due time and
been refused registry, the agent was directed to receive evidence and make provisional locations of lands the sale. of
which was suspended to await the action of Congress. That

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

commissioners were appointed to adjust the claims to reservations, and filed a report on Juine 16; 1845. That 143 heads of
Choctaw families obtained reservations in the ceded territory,
and "155 other Choctaw heads of families were found to be
entitled to the benefits of article 14 of the treaty, but the
United States had disposed of the lands to which they would
have been entitled, so that it was impossible to give said Indians the quantity to which they were severaly entitled.
Said commissioners thereupon estimated the quantity of land
to which each of said Indians would be entitled and allowed
him for the same quantity, to be taken out of an4y public lands
in the States of Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, or Arkansas
subject to entry at private sale. That 1155 pieces of scrip,
each representing one half the allowance of land, were issued
to those entitled thereto, and were accepted in part payment
for the lands aforesaid; that the remaining 1155 half pieces
of scrip were reserved and interest paid thereon valued at
$1.25 per acre to those entitled thereto, until the principal of
$872,000 was paid upon the execution of a final release of all
claims of such parties under' the fourteenth article of the
treaty. That thereby the claims of 1155 Choctaw heads of
families were fully satisfied and discharged, and any further
claim by or on behalf of them was forever barred. The plea
prays that so much of the aiiended petition as sets forth a
cause of action in behalf of said 1155 Choctaw heads of families for the value of lands alleged to be due them be dismissed.
To this special plea the Choctaw Nation filed a replication
on April 22, 1884, which in substance denied the validity of
the alleged release nmentioned in the plea., on the ground that
the same was wrongfully exacted under circumstances that
made it inequitable for the United States to insist upon it as a
bar to the claims of the Choctaw Nation covered by it.
The case having been heard before the Court of Clahs, the
court, upon the evidence, found the facts, which are set out in
much detail. It is only necessary here to state the following:
The War Department, then having charge of Indian affairs,
on May 21, 1831, instructed Colonel Ward, the Indian agent
in Mississippi, on the subject of carrying into effect the treaty of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

September 27, 1830. The correspondence between the depart
ment and its agents is set out fully. On June 26, 1833, Mr.
G. W. Martin was appointed by the War Department to make
selections of the locations of land granted to the Choctaws
under the 14th, 15tb, and 19th articles of the treaty, and was
instructed to call on Ward and Major Armstrong, also an agent
of the United States, appointed under the treaty, for the registry of the different classes so entitled. In pursuance of his
instructions, Mr. Martin located claims and received evidence
of claimants, and transmitted reports to the Secretary of War,
with'a list of 580 clahns for reservations -under the 14th article, and with affidavits as to forty claimants, showing imperfections in Ward's register, and that persons who sought to be
registered were refused, and not permitted to do so.
It was found as a fact by the Court of Claims that Ward
was unfit for the duties of the situation; that his conduct was
marked by acts calculated to deter the Indiaiis from making
application; that he was abusive and insulting to them, preventing them thereby from making application under the 14th
'article of the treaty, in order to necessitate their going west of
the Mississippi. lie insisted that the Indians had sold their
land; that he had been instructed to induce as many as possible to go west; and that more had been registered than had
been anticipated. After the 24th of August, 1831, the agents
of the United States insisted that those whose names were not
registered should go west, and that if they did not go soldiers
would be sent to drive them out; that they would take their
children from them; and many other threats were made by
them.
On the 31st of July, 1838, about 5000 of the Choctaw
Indians still remained in Mississippi; notwithstanding the
efforts of the removing agent of the government to remove
them, they remained, asserting their intention to do so, and
claiming the benefit of the 14th article of the treaty of 1830.
It was the intention of those remaining east of the Mississippi
to take the benefit of the 14th article of the treaty.
It was also found by the court that the whole numnber of
heads of families receiving land under the 14th article was

CHOCTAW NATION v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

143; the number who established their rights under the act of
Congress approved August 23, 1842, was 1150; and the number disallowed by the commissioner was 292. The commissioner rejected the claims of 191 heads of families, under that
act because they had no improvement on their reservations on
the 27th of September, 1830, and did not reside on the same
for five years continuously after said date. These 191 families complied, or attempted to comply, with the requ'irements
of the 14th article within the time required by it, but were
deprived of tfleir rights under it by the agents of the United
States. They were entitled to reservations amounting to
225,760 acres.
It -was also found by the court that, under the provisions of
the act of Congress approved August 23, 1842, the United
States, having failed to grant to said Choctaw heads of families the lands which they and their children claimed under
said treaty, and having disposed of the said lands, sc that it
was impossible to give said Choctaw heads of families the
lands whereon they resided on the date of the treaty of, 1830,
did, between June, 1843, and November, 1851, issue and
deliver to the said 1155 Choctaw heads of families, and to
their children, the certificates or scrip provided for in said act,
for 1,404,640 acres of land, which certificates or scrip the said
Choctaw heads of families and their children were required
by the United States to receive and accept in lieu of the reservations of land which, under the said 14th article of the
treaty, they claimed. The United States refused to deliver to
the said Choctaw heads of families and their children that
one half of the scrip which might have been delivered to
them under the provisions of the said act of Congress, east of
the Mississippi River, until the said Choctaw heads of families.
and their children bad either started for, or actually arrived
in, the Choctaw territory west of th6 Mississippi rliver.
Under the act of Congress approved March'3, 1845, 697,600'
acres in the said certificates or scrip, so directed to be deliVered to the 1155 Choctaw heads.of families and their childrenr
were funded at the value of $1.25 per acre, with interest payable thereon annually forever at the rate of five per centum
VOL. cxIx-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

per annum; which specified number of acres in certificates,
funded under said act, was that part of said certificates which
was not deliverable east to the said Choctaw heads of families
and their children, and not until their arrival in the Choctaw
territory west of the 2lissssippi River. This scrip, which
was funded for the benefit of said Choctaw heads of families
and their children, under the act of Congress of M[arch 3,
1845, was funded by the United States at the rate of $1.25 an
acre, amounting to the sum of $872,000, which am was paid
to the said heads of families and their children. )r their legal
representatives, under the provisions of an act of Congress
approved July 21, 1852.
Itwas further found by the Court of Claims tlat the said
Choctaw heads of families and their children, claimants under
the 14th article of the treaty of September, 1830, were
reduced to a helpless condition of want, which rendered it
practically impossible for them to contend with the United
States in their requirement that the said Choctaw heads of
families should accept and receive the scrip provided to be
issued to them, in lieu of the reservations, by the act of 1842,
and the said scrip and the money paid to redeem the same
were taken and accepted because they were powerless to
enforce any demands against, or impose any conditions upon,
the United States.
The Choctaw Nation, by its proper -authorities, on November 6,1852, executed and delivered to the United States the
following instrument, for the purposes therein specified:
"Whereas, by an act of Congress entitled 'An Act to supply
deficiencies in the appropriations for the service of the fiscal
year ending the 30th day of June, 1852,' all payments of interest on the -amount awarded Choctaw claimants under the
14th article of the treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek for lands
on which they resided, but which it is impossible to give them,
shall-cease, and that the Secretary of the Interior be directed
to pay said claimants the amount of the principal awards in
each case respectively, and that an amount necessary for this
purpose be appropriated, not exceeding the sum of $872,000;
and that final payment and satisfaction of said awards shall

CIOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATrS.
Statement of Facts.

be first ratified and approved as a final release of all claims of
such parties under the.14th article of said treaty, by the proper
national authority of the Choctaws, in such form as shall' be
prescribed by the Secretary of the luterior" -Now be it known,
that the said general council of the Choctaw Nation do hereby
ratify and approve the final payment and satisfaction of said
awards, agreeably to the provisions of the act aforesaid, asa
final release of the claims of such parties under the 14th article
of said treaty."
On the 9th day of November, 1853, the legislative council of
the -Choctaw Nation provided for the appointment of a delegation which should represent said nation in the settlement of
all the iinsettled claims and demands of said nation or individual
members thereof against the United States. The preamble to
the joint resolution appointing that delegation recites that
"the Choctaws were, and ever have been, dissatisfied with the
manner in which the treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek was
made, owing to the many circumstances which were created
to force them into it, and owing to the exceeding small and
inadequate amoimt which was given as payment for their
country;" and that "a large number of claims on the United
States, arising under the 14th and 19th and other articles of
the treaty of 1830, are still remaining unpaid;" and the said
delegates were "clothed with full power to settle and dispose
of, by treaty or otherwise, all and every claim and interest of
the Choctaw people against the government of the United
States, and to adjust and bring to a final close all unsettled
business" between said people and the government of the
United States.
This delegation opened negotiations with the United States,
through the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, for a new treaty,
by means of a comnmunication in writing, dated on the 5th of
April, 1854, which contained a general statement or survey of
the condition of the relations then existing between the Choctaw Nation and the YUnited States, and set out seriatb)?.complaints against the government, especially for causes of dissatisfaction arising under the treaty of September 27, 1830,
claiming that scarcely one of the stipulations of that treaty

OCTOBER TERMN,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

had been carried out by the government, so as to do justice
according to the intent of the treaty. They especially alleged
that the laws passed for the examination of their claims under
said treaty, and the 14th article thereof, prescribed a course of
adjudication of so rigid and technical a character as necessarily
to exclude rdany just claims; that many were compelled to
remove because of the failure of the government to give them
their rights under the said article, and that the law unjustly
cut off such persons from the benefits of it; that the scrip
issued under the law was paid in such a manner as to make it
of but little value to the ndilan: and that those who received
anything received but a mere pittance. They contended that
many claims existed unadjusted and unpaid under the 19th
article, and proposed to make arrangement for final adjustment of all matters, national and individual, in a new treaty,
by which the nation proposed to pay all individual claims
under the 14th and 19th articles, and release the government
of the United States from all re.-ponsibility on that account,
because such claims were not susceptible of proof against the
United States, but could be adjusted by the authorities of the
nation, provided the nation could effect such a settlement
with the United States as the Choctaw people desired. They
claimed that under the treaty of Septembee 2 , 1830, the
Choctaw Nation wcs entitled to the funds arising from the
sale of lands ceded, after deducting the expenses of sale, and
the debt mentioned in said treaty; that the government of the
UDitcd States -vas a trustee for the Choctaw .ration in the
sale of the lands ceded by that treaty, so that, after the payment of the expenses incident to ilhe execution of the trust, the
Indians were entitled to the remainder; and they proposed
that the payment to the nation of such remainder should operate in law as a satisfaction of the individual claims under a
new treaty.
Upon the basis of this cormnunication the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs instructed the agent of the United States for
the Choctaws to make the reqidsite inquiry and investigation
to ascertain the character and extent of their claims, and
what arrangement was necessary to accomplish the object in

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

view. The agent of the United States for the Choctaws submitted to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, in answer to
this reference, a paper containing a comparative estimate or
approximate statement of the claims then asserted by the
Choctaw commissioners, which statement had been furnished
by the Choctaw delegation to said agent. The aggregate
amount of these claims so stated was $6,599,230, which it
was proposed to settle on the principle of allowing the net
proceeds of the sales of the lands ceded to the United States
by the Choctaw Nation under the treaty of September 2-7,
1830, the whole showing the balance claimed to be due to the
Choctaws to be 2,380,'701. The agent of the United States,
in his communication to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
referring to said statement, said: "I have exa i.ned this statement carefully, and from the most reliable information I am
possessed of, obtained in the Choctaw country and here, I am
inclined to think that part of it, embracing the extent of the
obligations under the treaty, is as nearly correct as it could be
made at this date."
The amount of the obligations under the treaty, thus referred to, was placed in said statement at -6,599,230. These
negotiations between the Choctaw delegation and the executive authorities of the United States were conducted with
reference to the accomplishment of the following objects:
1st. That the United States should provide, in a new treaty,
for an examination and settlement of all the claims of the
Choctaws, whether national or individual, under the treaty of
1830, a specified in the letter of the Choctaw delegation to
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, dated April 5, 1854.
2d. That the Choctaws should adjust their disputes with
the Chickasaws; should lease to the United States all that
portion of their common territory between the 9Sth and 100th
degrees of west longitude, for the permanent settlement ol the
Wichita and such other bands of Indians as the United States
might desire to locate therein; and should absolfely and forever quit claim and relinquish to the United States all their
right, title, and interest in and to any and all lands west of
the 100th degree of west longitude.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

These negotiations resulted in the treaty of 1855, which
was ratified by the Senate of the United States on the 21st of
February, 1856, and proclaimed by the President on Mfarch
4th of the same year. 11 Stat. 611. The preamble to that
ireaty recites that "the Choctaws contend that by a just and
fair construction of the treaty of September 27, 1830, they
are, of right, entitled to the net proceeds of the. lands ceded
by them to the United States under said treaty, and have proposed that the question of their right to the same, together
with the whole subject-matter of their unsettled claims,
whether national or individual, against the United States,
arising under the various provisions of said treaty, shall be
referred to the Senate of the United States for final adjudication and adjustment."
'By the terms of that treaty, , division of their common
lands was made between the Choctaws and the Chickasaws,
and the Choctaws relinquished to the United States all their
lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude, and the
Choctaws and the Chickasaws together leased to the United
States all that portion of their common territory west of the
98th degree of. west longitude, for the permanent settlement
of the Wichita and such other tribes or bands of Indians as
the govermnent of the United States might desire to locate
therein. The 11th and 12th articles of said treaty are as follows:
"ATICLE 11. The government of the United States, not

being prepared to assent to the claim set up under the treaty
of September the twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and thirty,
and so earnestly contended for by the Choctaws as a rule of
settlement, but justly appreciating the sacrifices, faithful services, and general good conduct of the Choctaw people, and
bing desirous that their rights and claims against the United
States shall receive a just, fair, and liberal consideration, it is
therefore stipulated that the following questions be submitted
for adjudication to the Senate of the United States:
"First. Whether the Choctaws are entitled to, or shall be
allowed, the proceeds of the sale of the lands ceded by them
to the United States by the treaty of September the twenty-

CHOCTAW NATION e.,UNITED STATES.

23

Statement of Facts.

seventh, eighteen hundred and thirty, deductiig therefrom the
cost of their survey and sale, nd all just and proper expenditures and payments under the provisions of said treaty; and,
if so. what price per acre shall be allowed to the Choctaws for"
the lands remaining unsold, in 'order that a final settlement
with them may be promptly effected. Or,
"Second.. Whether the Choctaws shall .be allowed a gross
sum in further and full satisfaction of all their claims, national
and individual, against the United States; and, if so,' how
much.
"ArxmCLE 12. In case the Senate shall award to the Choc-

taws the net proceeds of the lands ceded as aforesaid, th6
same shall be received by them in full satisfaction of all their
clains against" the United States, whether national or individual, arising under any former treaty; and the Choctaws shall
thereupon become liable and bound to pay all such individual
claims as may be adjudged by the proper, authorities of the
tribe to be equitable and just -the settlement and payment
to be made with the advice and under the direction of the
United States agent for the tribe; and so much of the fund
awarded by the Senate to the Choctaws' as the proper authori-'
ties thereof shall ascertain and deterinine to be necessary for
the payment of the just liabilities of the tribe, shall, on their
reqnisition, be paid over to them by the United States. ]But
should the Senate allow a gross sum, in further and full satisfaction of all their claims, whether national or individual,
against the United States, the same shall be accepted by the
Choctaws, and they shall thereupon become liable for, and
bound to pay, all the individual claims as aforesaid; it being
expressly understood that the adjudication and decision of the
Senate shall be final."
In pursuance of the eleventh article of the treaty, the questions submittel to the Senate of the United States were
answered by a resolution of the Senate passed on the 9th of
March, 1859, as follows:
":Resolved, That the Choctaws be allowed the proceeds of
the sale of such lands as have been sold by the -United States
on the 1st day of January last, deducting therefrom the costs

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

of their survey and sale, and all proper expenditures and payments under said treaty, excluding the reservations allowed
and secured, and estimating the scrip issued in lieu of reservations at the rate of $1.25 per acre; and, further, that they be
also allowed twelve and a half cents per acre for the residue
of said lands."
In reference to tlis award of the Senate, the Court of
Claims, in the finding of facts, says: "The consideration which
was given by the Senate to the subject-matter so submitted to
it by the said eleventh article of the said treaty, and to the
evidence which was so presented to, and taken and considered
by, the Senate, was full, fair, and impartial, and its adjudication, as made under the said article, was not influenced or
affected by, and was in no way or degree the'result of, any
fraud, corruption, partiality, and there is no evidence tending
to show that it was the result of surprise or mistake on the
part of the Senate, or any member thereof."
On ihe 9th of MHarch, 1859, the Senate of the United States
also adopted a resolution for the, purpose of ascertaining the
amount due the Choctaw .Nation under their award, as follows:
"1
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Interior cause an account to be stated with the Choctaws showing what amount is
due them according to the above prescribed principles of settlement, and report the same to Congress." And the Secretary
of the Interior, in compliance with the mandate of said resolution, did, on the bth of May, 1860, transmit to Congress a
statement of account with the Choctaw .ation.
This account
shows, as the proceeds of the sales of the Choctaw lands up to
January 1, 1859, together with the residue of said lands unsold
at that date, at twelve and one-half cents per acre, an amount
in all of $8,078,614.80, from which was to be deducted the
whole amount of charges, equal to $5,097,367.50, leaving a
balance due to the Choctaws of $2,981,047.30.
On the 9th day of January, 1861, the Choctaw ation, by its
memorial addressed to Congress, demanded payment from the
United States of the amount claimed to be due to it under
said award. By the provisions of the act of March 2, 1861,
the Indian appropriation act, 12 Stat. 238, there was paid to

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Choctaw Nation the sum of $250,000 on account of their
claim.

The bonds for the additional sum of $250,000, which

were by that act directed to be issued and delivered to said
Choctaw Nation on account of said claim, were never issued
or delivered to it, although demand for the same was made
upon the Secretary of the Treasury by them. on the 4th of
April, 1861.
Upon the findings cf fact, the Court of Claims found a
balance due the Choctaw Nation from the United States of
$408,120.32, made up of various claims arising under the
treaty of 1830, and for the value of land taken in fixing the
boundary between the State of Arkansas and the Choctaw
Nation, deducting the payment made, under the act of 1801, of
$250,000. In" reaching this conclusion the Court of Claims
rejected the award of the Senate, under the treaty of 1855, as
having no effect ih law, and excluded the consideration of all
claims covered by the release executed by the Choctaw Nation
on November 6, 1852.
,Samtd
S.
-M,'. Jo n J. "Weed,31>. Jeewiah X. Tilson, and
Siellabai'gerfor the Choctaw Nation.
-!fe. Assstait Attorney General 3fauwry and Xr. Ass.tant
Attoiwey Geizeral Ifoward for the United States.
MR. TusTic. M.&TTHws, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the Court.
The general purpose of this suit is a judicial settlement of
all existing controversies between the Choctaw Nation and
the United States. The specific claims of the Choctaw Nation
are stated in the petition in the alternative. It is claimed, in
the first. instance, that the award of the Senate, and the
amount found due as a balance upon the account between the
parties, stated upon the principles of that award, should either
be enforced as a finality by the judgment 6f the court in the
present case, or that, if not technically enforceable as an award,
it still furnishes a rule for an equitable settlement of the
differences between the parties. But, in the second place, it
is claimed that if the award cannot be considered in either of
these lights, then the whole controversy and all questions in-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

volved in it, from the beginning, under any of the treaties
between the parties, are open for investigation and decision
upon their original merits. And under this head the Choctaw
Nation claim compensation for various breaches, on the part
of the United States, of the treaty of September 27, 1830, and,
in general, such a failure on its part to comply with its provisions, as in substance deprived the Choctaw Nation of all
the benefits intended to be conferred by it, for which it is
claimed they are entitled to an equitable equivalent as compensation.
In respect to so much of the petitioner's case as rests upon
specific failures to comply with the provisions of article 14 of
that treaty, as to those Choctaw heads of families who claimed
reservations within its terms and did not receive them, the
government of the United States relies upon the release executed by the Choctaw Nation in pursuance of the requireraents of the act of July 21, 1852, under which a payment of
$872,000 was made in satisfaction of the amounts awarded
the Choctaw claimants under that article of the treaty of 1830.
The Court of Claims, as it appears, declined to give any
legal effect whatever to the award made by the Senate under
the treaty of 1855, feeling constrained to that conclusion by
the terms of the act of March 3, 1881, conferring jurisdiction
upon it in this suit, and on the other hand, it gave all the effect
claimed by the United States for the release under the act of
1852. Its judgment in favor of the Choctaw Nation was
made up as follows:
For claims under the 14th article of the treaty of
1830, not covered by the release of 1852

.

.

$417,656.00

For claims under the 19th article of the treaty of
1830 .................

42,920.00

Fof land taken in fixing the boundary of the
State of A-rkansas and the Choctaw Nation
68,102.00
For transportation and subsistence under the
treaty of 1830 ....
............
....
51,993.00
For unpaid annuities ............
" 59,449.32
For guns, ammunition, &c ....
....
. .
18,000.00
Total ......
.............
$658,120.32

CHOCTAW NATION'v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the CourL

And it credited the balance thus found due with a payment
made under the act of March 2, 1861, of $250,000.
. In reviewing the controversy between the parties presented
by this record, it is important and necessary to consider and
dispose of some preliminary questions. The first relates to the
character of the parties, and the nature of the relation they
sustain to each other. The United States is a sovereign nation,
not suable in any court except by its own consent, and upon
such terms and conditions as may accompany that consent,
and is not subject to any municipal law. Its government is
limited only by its own Constitution, and the nation is subject
to no law but the law. of nations. On the other hand, the
Choctaw Nation falls within the description in the terms of
our Constitution, not of an independent state or sovereign
nation, but of an Indian tribe. As such, it stands in a peculiar relation to the United States. It was capable under the
terms of the Constitution of entering into treaty relations with
the govermnent of the United States, although, from the
nature of.the case, subject to the power and authority of the
laws of the United States when Congress should choose, as it
did determine in the act of March 3, 1871, embodied in  2079
of the Revised Statutes, to exert its legislative power.
As was said by this court recently in the case of the
Mi7ited States v. Kagamna, 118 U. S.375, 383: "These Indian
tribes a e the wards of the nation; they are communities
dependent on the United States; dependent largely for their
daily food; dependent for their political rights. They owe no
allegiance to the States and receive from them no protection.
Because of the local ill-feeling, the people of the States where
they are found are often their-deadliest enemies. From their
very weakness and helplessness, so largely due to the course
of dealing of the Federal Government with them, and the
treaties in which it has been promised, there arises the duty of
protection, and with it the power. This has always been recognized by the Executive, and by Congress, and by this court,
whenever the question has arisen."
It had accordingly been said in the case of TFoaeester v.
Georyia, 6 Pet. 515, 582: "The language used in treaties with

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

the Indians should never be construed to their prejudice. If
words be made use of which are susceptible of a more extended
meaning, than their plain import, as connected with the tenor
of the treaty, they should be considered as used only in the
latter sense.
.
.
How the words of the treaty were
understood by this unlettered people, rather than their critical
meaning, should form the rule of construction."
The recognized relation between the parties to this controversy, therefore, is that between a superior and an inferior,
whereby the latter is placed under the care and control.of the
former, and which, while it authorizes the adoption on the
part of the United States of such policy as their own public
interests may dictate, recognizes, on the other hand, such an
interpretation of their acts and promises as justice and reason
demand in all cases where power is exerted by the strong over
those to whom they owe care and protection. The parties are
not on an equal footing, and that inequality is to be made good
by the superior justice which looks only to the substance of the
right, without regard to technical rules framed under a system
of municipal jurisprudence, formulating the rights and obligations of private persons, equally subject to the sam-ne'laws.
The rules to be applied in the present case are those which
govern public treaties, which, even in case of ontroversies between nations equally independent, are not to be read as rigidly as documents between private persons governed by *a
sv'stem. of technical law, but in the light of that larger reason
which constitutes the spirit of the law of.nations. And it is
the treaties made between the United States and the Choctaw
Nation, holding such a relation, the assumptions of fact and
of right which they presuppose, the acts and conduct of the
parties under them, which constitute the material for settling
the controversies which have arisen under them. The rule of
interpretation aheady stated, as arising out of the nature
and relation of the parties, is sanctioned and adopted by the
express terms of the treaties themselves. In the 11th article
of the treaty of 1855, the government of the United States
expresses itself as being desirous that the rights and claims
of tbe Choctaw people against the United States "shall receive
a just, fair, and liberal consideration."

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The language of the act of March 3, 1881, conf6rring jurisdiction in the .present case, also requires construction. It confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to try all questions
of' difference arising 6ut of treaty stipulations with the Choctaw'
Nation, and to render judgment thereon. How far the settlement of these differences is to be affected by the various acts
of Congress referred to in the pleadings and findings of fact
made by the Court of Claims, and which were passed professedly in execution of treaty obligations on the part of the
United States, must be determined. These acts of Congress,
in one aspect, have the force of law, because Congress has full
power of legislation over th6 subject; but, in so far as they
may have proceeded upon insufficient or incorrect interpretations of the treaty rights of the Choctaw Nation, or in so far
as they may have attempted to modify or disregard those
rights, they form the very subjects of complaint on the part
of the Choctaw Nation, whose allegation is, that the United
States, by these very statutes, as in other particulars, have
broken their treaty obligations. Where, in professed pursuance of- treaties, these statutes have conferred valuable benefits
upon the Choctaw Nation, which the latter have accepted,
they partake of the nature of agreements - the acceptance of
the benefit, coupled with the condition, finplying an assent on
the part of the recipient to the condition, unless that implication is rebutted by other and sufficient circumstances. Under
the terms of the act of March 3, 1S8I, in exercising the jurisdiction thereby conferred, the Court of Claims is empowered
to review the entire question of differences de nao'o, which may
be interpreted to imply that the whole matter was opened from
the beginning, with the view of determining what the original
treaty rights of the Choctaw Nation were, and how far they
have been performed by the United States in its various transactions with them, including the acts done under the authority
of the statutes referred to. The meaning of this clause becomes
most important, however, in connection with the question, how
the court is authorized to deal with the award made by the
Senate of the United States in pursuance of the treaty of 1855.
It is contended, on the part of the Choctaw Nation, that

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that award is final and conclusive, and in support of that contention reference is made to the express provisions of the
treaty of 1855. It is recited in the preamble of that treaty,
that the Choctaws have proposed that their claims against the
United States, arising under the various provisions of the
treaty of September 27, 1830, shall be referred to the Senate
of the United States for final adjudication and adjustment;
and by the terms of the 12th article of the treaty it is declared
to be "expressly understood that the adjudication and decision
of the S~nate shall be final;" and the right to insist upon the
conclusive nature of this award, it is said, is a treaty right in
favor of the Choctaw Nation.
On the other hand, it is declared by the act of March 3,
1881, that, in the exercise of its jurisdiction to try this case,
the Court of Claims "shall not be estopped by any action
had or award made by the Senate of the United States in
pursuance of the treaty of 1855 ;" and it is insisted, on behalf
of the United States, that this language is inconsistent with
the idea that the court should give to that award any legal
effect whatever. And this construction is supposed to be rendered necessary by the previous clause, which grants power to
the court to review the entire question of differences de noo;
for it is said that the court cannot review the question of dif-.
ferences de nrovo, that is, from the beginning, and as if they
were new and had freshly arisen, if it gives any effect to a
determination of the Senate, which it is claimed operates as
9,es judicata, foreclosing further inquiry into the merits of the
very questions to be reviewed.
If the words conferring the power to review the question of
differences de novo are permitted to have that force, it is difficult to understand how the release made by the Choctaw
Nation in pursuance of the act of Congress of July 21, 1852,
should stand in the way of a reconsideration of the claims
covered by it. That act of Congress, it is true, declares that
the final payment and satisfaction of the sum thereby appropriated and paid, should, when ratified and approved by the
proper national authority of the Choctaws, operate as a, final
release of all claims of those to whom such payments are

CHOCTAW NATION v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

made, under the 14th article of the treaty of September 27,
1830. But whether that payment was a just and fair extinguishment. of those claims, according to the terms of that
treaty, was one of the very questions in dispute. And it is
not unreasonable to contend, as it is contended on behalf of'
the Choctaw Nation, that the effect of that release should be
considered in view of the circumstances under which it was
executed, and in reference to which the Court of Claims has
found, in the 16th finding, that "the claimants under the 14th
article, the said Choctaw heads of families and their children,
were reduced to a helpless condition of want, which rendered
it practically impossible for them to contend with the United
States in their requirement that the said 6hoctaw heads of
families should accept and receive the scrip provided to be
issued to them in lieu of the reservations by the act of 1842;
and the said scrip and the money paid to redeem the same
were taken and accepted because they were powerless to enforce any demands against, or impose any conditions upon,
the United States."
However this may be, the language of the act of IMarch 3,
1881, in reference to the award made by the Senate under the
treaty of 1855, does not abrogate it, and does not require, as
a condition of the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by the
act, that the court should entirely disregard it, giving it no
effect whatever. It merely says that the court shall not be
estopped by any action had or award made by the Senate in
pursuance of that treaty. The plain and literal meaning of
this language is fully satisfied by holding that the award, considered as such, shall not, upon its face, be taken to be final
and conclusive. There is nothing in the language to prevent
the court from giving to that award effect as y,,im faeie establishing the validity of the claim so far adjudged in favor
of the Choctaw Nation, leaving to the representatives of the
government in this litigation the right not only to question
the validity of the award, as such, upon any such grounds as
might or should invalidate awards ordinarily, either at law or
in equity, but also to attack it upon the merits, as a finding
unsupported by proof, or unjusf and unfair in view of all the

OCTOBER TERMH,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

circumstances, and on that accomnt not to be enforced. In
that view, so much effect only would be given to it as to cast
the biu'den of disproving its justice and fairness upon the
United States in this suit. In that light, and with that view,
it has been attacked in argiument by the counsel for the United
States, upon the proof contained in the case.
In the first place, it is objected that the award did not agree
with the submission, and under that head it is argued that the
first question submitted for adjudication to the Senate was
whether the Choctaws were entitled to the proceeds of the
sale of the lands ceded by them to the United States by the
treaty of September 27, 1830, and that there was no authority
to allow to them such proceeds, unless the Senate should first
find that they were entitled to them. And it is said that the
Senate not only did not find that, as matter of law, the Choctaws were so entitled under the terms of the treaty of September 27, 1830, but that, according to the report of the
Commnlittee on Indian Affairs, which was adopted by the
Senate in the passage of the resolutions which contain the
award itself, their title to those proceeds, considered as matter
of law, was denied. We do not, however, think that the
words of the question submitted. to the Senate by the treaty
of 1855 are to be confined to a consideration of the question
of a strict title to the proceeds of the sale of the lands, but
that they plainly mean, whether the Choctaws, under all the
circumstances, as a matter of justice and fair dealing, ought
to receive such proceeds, whether as deducible from the terms
of the treaty or as merely a fair compensation to be awarded
to them for its breaches by the United States. The language
of the question is in the alternative; it is whether the Chocbe allowed; and it was sufficient,
taws are entitled to or &lall
in our judgment, to satisfy the terms of the submission, for
the Senate to declare, as it did, that the Choctaws should be
allowed the pioceeds of the sale of the lands sold by the United
States which had been ceded by the Choctaws under the treaty
of 1830; and we are, therefore, of opinion that the award
cannot be avoided on this ground.
Second. It is next insisted that the award is invalid because

OHOTAW

rNATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion ot the Court.

it is uncertain, inasmuch as while it determines that the
Choctaws shall be allowed the proceeds of the sale of the lands
ceded by the treaty of 1830, and at the rate of 12-3- cents an
acre for the residue, it does not ascertain what those proceeds
and the value of the residue amount to in the aggregate. But
the award itself provided the means of reducing this uncertainty by a reference to the Secretary of the Interior, who was
directed to cause the account to be stated with the Choctaws,
showing what amount was due them according to the principle
of settlement embraced in the award. It is not disputed but
that the Secretary of the Interior was enabled by the records
of his office to state such an account, and that in fact he has
stated it. This reference to the Secretary of the Interior for
the mere purpose of an account cannot be considered as a
delegation of authority by the Senate to adjudicate any of the
questiofis which had been submitted to it by the agreement of
the parties. The stating of the account was merely in execution of the judgment; the principle on which it should proceed
was fully, clearly, and finally adjudged. Whatever exception
might be taken to the account when rendered, would not be
different from such as in the usual course of equity practice
might be taken to the report of a master to whom was referred
the statement of an account, the principles of which had been
previously settled by a decree of the court fixing and establishing the rights of the parties.
Third. It is also said that the award is invalid for lack of
proper notice to the United States of the intended action of
the arbitrator before proceeding to the adjudication. When
it is considered that the Senate of the United States was the
arbitrator, constituting, as it does, a branch of the legislative
as well as of the treaty making power of the government of
the United States, it can hardly be contended that the United
States had. no notice of proceedings taken by the Senate in
pursuance of laws or treaties made by the United States.
Whatever force might otherwise be supposed to reside in
these objections to the validity of the award are further
answered by a reference to the terms of the Indian appropriation act of March 2, 1801, 12 Stat. 238, which enacts as
VOL. CXIX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

follows: "For payment to the Choctaw nation or tribe of
Indiairs, on account of their claim under the eleventh and
twelfth articles of the treaty with said- nation or tribe made
the twenty-second of June, 1855, the sum of five hundred
thousand dollars; two hundred and fifty thousand dollars of
which sum shall be paid in money; and for the residue the
Secretary of the Treasury shall cause to be issued to the proper
authorities of the nation or tribe, on their requisition, bonds
of ihe United States, authorized by law at the present session
of Congress: Provided., that in the future adjustment of the
claim of the Choctaws, under the treaty aforesaid, the said sum
shall be charged against the said Indians."
This appropriation, and the payment which was made uder
it, would seem to have the effect of confirming the award of
the Senate, for it makes an appropriation in part payment of
it, and provides for the future adjustment of the claim of the
Choctaws under it. It is true, as is insisted in argument, that"
no express mention is made in this act of the award, and the
claim of the Choctaw Nation is described as one arising under
the 11th and 12th articles of the treaty of 1855, but no possible
claim could arise under those articles of that treaty in behalf
of the. Choctaw Nation, except one to insist upon the arbitration and to enforce the award made, in pursuance of their
terms. The whole object and scope of those articles of the
treaty is to provide for the submission to the arbitration of
the Senate, and the execution of the award made under it.
The future adjustment of the claims of the Choctaws mentioned in the proviso evidently refers to the division of the
fund, ascertained by the report of the Secretary of the Interior,
by which a portion was to be paid over to the nation for the
satisfaction of individual claimants, and the remainder retained
by the United States as a trust fund, according to the 13th
article ,of the treaty of 1855.
It does not, therefore, give too much effect to the act of
M arch 2, 1861, to treat it as an act of Congress confirming
the validity of the Senate award. This view is very much
strengthened by the terms of the act of June 23, 1874, from
which it appears that at that recent date CongTess intended to

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

treat the award of the Senate as valid and binding, and the
report of the Secretary of the Interior as to the balance due
to be final The provision of that act, 18 Stat. 230, is as follows: "That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby directed
to inquire into the amounts of liabilities due from the Choctaw
tribe of Indians to individuals, as referred to in articles twelve
and thirteen of the treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen
hundred and fifty-five, between the United States and the
Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of Indians, and to report the
same to the next session of Congress, with a view of ascertaining what amounts, if any, should be deducted from the, sum
due from the United States to said Choctaw tribe, for the purpose of enabling the said tribe to pay its liabilities, and thereby
to enable Congress to provide a fund to be held for educational and other purposes for said tribe, as provided for in
article thirteen of the treaty aforesaid."
The only further question, then, which can be claimed to
be left open for adjudication in this suit by the terms of the
act of March 3, 1881, is, on the supposition that the award is
.{J,int fade evidence of the correctness of the claim thereby
reduced to judgment, whether upon its merits it was fair, just,
and equitable, as a settlement between the parties of the
matters in controversy, having regard to all the circumstances
of the case. As dilready declared, it is the right of the United
States to question its validity by questioning its justice; at the
same time, the burden of proof is upon them to establish, by
affirmative proof, the considerations which ought to constrain
this court, as a matter of justice, altogether to disregard it.
Proceeding, then, to review the whole questions of difference between the parties de ",vofor this purpose, we are led
to the conclusion that the principle of settlement adjudged by
the Senate in its award, in pursuance of the l1th article of the
treaty of 1855, furnishes the nearest approximation to the
justice and right of the case that, after this lapse of time, it is
practicable for a judicial tribunal to reach. Our judgment to
this effect is based upon the following considerations:
Tie situation and circumstances in which the parties were
found at the time the treaty of September 27, 1830, was

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

entered into, were these: By the previous treaty of 1820, the
policy of the United States therein declared, and the agreement between the parties, was "to promote the civilization of
the Choctaw Indians, by the establishment of schools amongst
them, and to perpetuate them as a nation by exchanging for
x small part of their land here," that is, in Mississippi, "a
country beyond the Mississippi River, where all who live by
hunting and will not work may be collected and settled
together." It was also recited that it was "desirable to .the
State of Mississippi to obtain a small part of the land belonging to said nation for the mutual accomodation of the parties."
Accordingly, the Choctaws, by the treaty of 1820, ceded to
the United States a portion only of their lands in Mississippi.
By the 2d article of the treaty it was declared that, "for
and in consideration of the foregoing cession on the part of
the Choctaw Nation, and in part satisfaction for the same, the
commissioners of the United States, in behalf of said States,"
thereby ceded to said nation a tract of country west of the
Mississippi River, the boundaries of which were described.
It was also declared by article 4 of that treaty, that "the
.boundaries hereby established between the Choctaw Indians
and the United States on this side of the Mississippi River
shall remain without alteration until the period at which said
nation shall become so civilized and enlightened as to be made
citizens of the United States, and Congress shall lay off a limited parcel of land for the benefit of each family or individual
in the nation."
By the treaty of January 20, 1825, it was further stipulated
that the 4th article of the treaty of October 18, 1820, should
be so modified as that Congress should not exercise the power
of apportioning the lands for. the benefit of each family or
individual of the Choctaw Nation, and of bringing them under
the laws of the United States, but with the consent of the
Choctaw Nation. In the meantime, however, under the pressure of the demand for the settlement of the unoccupied lands
of the State of Mississippi by emigrants from other States, the
policy of the United States in respect to the Indian tribes still
dwelling within its borders underwent a change, and it be-

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

came desirable by a new treaty to effect so far as practicable
the removal of the whole body of the Choctaw Nation, as a
tribe, from the limits of the State to the lands which had been
ceded to them west of the Mississippi River. To carry out
that policy the treaty of 1830 was negotiated.
By the 3d article of that treaty the Choctaw Nation of
Indians ceded to the United States the entire country they
owned and possessed east of the Mississippi River, and agreed
to remove beyond the Mississippi River as early as practicable,
so that as many as possible of their people, not exceeding onehalf of the whole number, should depart during the falls of
1831 and 1832, and the residue follow during the succeeding
fall of 1833. But, in order to induce the consent of the Choctaw

Nation, as such, to the provisions of that treaty, the

United States entered into the obligations already specified
and contained in its subsequent articles, particularly articles 14,
15, and 19, by which large reservations of land were made, so
that under article 14 the head of every Choctaw family who
desired to remain and become a citizen of the United States
was entitled to do so, and thereupon became entitled to a reservation of a section of 640 acres of land for himself, and an
additional half-section for each unmarried child living with
him over ten years of age, and an additional quarter-section
for each child under ten years of age, to adjoin his own loca-'
tion; with the further provision, that if they resided upon said
lands, intending to become citizens of the States, for five years
after the ratification of the treaty, a grant in fee shnple should
issue to them. The Choctaws, it appears, were very reluctant
to emigrate from their old homes to their new ones, and a
very much larger number than was expected manifested an intention to avail themselves of those provisions of. the treaty
which entitled them to remain.
It is notorious as a historical fact, as it abundantly appears
from the record in this case, that great pressure had to be
brought to bear upon the Indians to effect their removal, and
the whole treaty was evidently and purposely executed, not so
much to secure to the Indians the rights for which they had
stipulated, as to effectuate the policy of the United States in

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

regard to their removal. The most noticeable thing, upon a
careful consideration of the terms of this treaty, is, that no
money consideration is promised or paid for a cession of lands,
the beneficial ownership of which is assumed to reside in the
Choctaw Nation, and computed to amount to over ten millions
of acres. It was not an exchange of lands east of the -Mississippi River for lands west of that river. The latter tract had.
already been secured to them by its cession under the treaty of
1820.
If is true that by the 18th article of the treaty of 1830 it is
provided that, "for the payment of the several amounts secured in this treaty, the lands hereby ceded are to remain a
fund pledged to that purpose, until the debt shall be provided
for aiid arranged. And, further, it is agreed that, in the construction of this treaty, wherever well-founded doubt shall
arise, it shall be construed most favorably towards the Choctaws." The only money payments secured by the treaty, over
and above the necessary expenditures in removing the Indians,
in providing for their subsistence for twelve months after
reaching their new homes, and paying for their cattle and their
improvements, are, first, an annuity of $20,000 for twenty
years, commencing after their removal to the west; and, second, the amount to be expended in the education of forty
Choctaw youths for twenty years, and for the support of three
teachers of schools for twenty years, together with the cost of
erecting some public buildings, and furnishing blacksmiths,
weapons, and agricultural implements, in addition to the several annuities and sums secured under former treaties to the
Choctaw Nation and people. It is nowhere expressed in the
treaty that these payments are to be made as the price of the
lands ceded; and they are all only such expenditures as the
government of the United States could, well afford to incur for
the mere purpose of executing its policy in reference to the removal of the Indians to their new homes. As a consideration
for the value of the lands ceded by the treaty, they must be
regarded as a meagre pittance.
It'is, perhaps, impossible to in!.'rpret the language of this
instrument, considered as a contract between parties standing

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

upon an equal footing and dealing at arm's length, as a conveyance of the legal title by the Choctaw Nation to the
United States, to hold as trustee for the pecuuiary benefit of
the Choctaw people, and yet it is quite apparent that the only
consideration Tor the transfer of the lands that can be considered as inuring to them, is the general advantage which they
may be supposed to have derived from the faithful execution
of the treaty on the part of the United States.; and when, in
that connection, it is considered that the treaty was not executed on the part of the United States according to its just
intent and spirit, with a view to securing to the Choctaw
people the very advantages which they had a right to expect
would accrue to them under it, it would seem as though it
were a case where they had lost their lands without receiving the promised equivalent. In such a case, there is a plain
equity to enforce compensation, by requiring the party in
default to account for all the pecuniary benefits it has actually
derived from the lands themselves. This is the solid ground
on which the justice of the award of the Senate of the
United States under the treaty of 1855 seems to us fairly to
stand.
The committee of the Senate which reported the resolutions
adopted by that body as the award under the treaty of 1855
reached their conclusion upon the same premises. Their
report discusses at length the various grounds on which the
Choctaw Nation rightfully complained of the injurious character of the dealings of the United States with them under
the treaty, and concludes as follows :
"It being thus impossible to ascertain to how much the
Choctaws would be entitled, on a fair and liberal settlement,
for the damage and loss sustained by them, it seems to the
committee that the only practical mode of adjustment is to
give them the net proceeds of their lands, not on the ground
that the letter of the treaty entitles them to it, but that it .is
the only course by which justice can now be done them.
"And while, on the one hand, to award to the tribe the net
proceeds of their lands, would surely be no more than just to
them, because practically no regard is paid to actual value by

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States in the sales of public lands; and undeniably
the real market value of these lands which the Indians might
have realized, if protected in their possession, was far greater
than the price for which they actually sold; on the other
hind, the United States would neither have lost, paid, nor
expended anything whatever, but would only have refunded
to the Choctaws the surplus remaining on hand of the proceeds of their own lands, after having repaid themselves every
dollar exTended for the benefit of the Choctaws; and that,
after having had the use of this surplus for many years without interest, and when, according to the estimates of. the
General Land Office, it would really amount to little more
than half of what might be recovered in a court of equity, if
the case were one between individuals, as will appear by the
comparative statement hereto appended.
"The committee accordingly report the following resolutions, and recommend that they be adopted and made the
award and judgment, of the Senate upon the questions subinitted by the treaty of 1855."
The Secretary of the Interior found to be due to the Choctaw Nation, in his statement of account in conformity with
the resolutions and decision of the Senate under the treaty of
1855, the sum of $2,981,247.30. This balance was reached by
crediting them with the proceeds of the sales of the lands
ceded by them under the treaty of September 27, 1830, made
up to January 1, 1859, adding for the unsold residue of said
lands their estimated value at 12- cents per acre, amounting
to $8;078,614.80 in the aggregate. Against this, deductions
were charged, as follows: First, the cost of the survey
and sale of the lands At ten cents an acre; and, second,
payments and expenditures under the treaty; the whole
amounting to $5,097,367.50, resulting in the balance above
stated. Some of the items charged as payments and expenditures in this account are objected to 9n the part of the
Choctaw Nation in this suit, and we are asked to restate the
account. If, however, we felt at liberty to enter into such an
examination of this account, we see nothing in the evidence
presented by the record to show that the items objected to

CHOCTAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion : Waite, C. J.

were not properly chargeable. The result, therefore, is to
establish the balance found by the Secretary of the Interior
as the true amount due, ascertained accordig to the principle
adjudged by -the Senate in its award, and which we have
declared to be the equitable rule of settlement between the
parties. From this is-to be deducted the payment of $250,000
made under the act of March 2, 1861.
This disposes of all questions of difference involved in this
suit arising under treaties prior to that of 1855, except for
unpaid annuities, ascertained by the Court of Claims to
amount to the sum of $59,449.32, which is to be included in
the judgment.
There is, however, another controversy arising under the
treaty of 1855. The first article of that treaty fixed definitely the boundary of the territory ceded to the Choctaw
Nation by the treaty of 1820. It is found as a fact by the
Court of Claims, that, in the location of the line which was
surveyed under the authority of the United States, and fixed
as the permanent boundary between the State of Arkansas
and the Indian coimntry by the act of Congress of March 3,
1875, i8 Stat. 476, the government made a mistake, whereby
they embraced in the territory appropriated by the United
States as part of the public lands, 136,204-1, acres of Indian
lands, the value of which, as ascertained by the Court of
Claims, is $68,102. This is a just and valid claim, for -which
the petitioner is entitled to recover.
The final rTesult is that the Choctaw Nation is entitled to a
judgment against the United States for the following sums:
First, $2,981,247.30f subject to the deduction of $250,000 paid
under the act of 1861; second, for unpaid annuities; $59,445.32;
third, for lands taken in fxing the boundary between the
State of Arkansas and the Choctaw Nation, $68,102.
TheJudgmnent of the Court of C'lah'ins is, thierefore, iv'versed,
and the cause Premanded to that court, with instructions to
enter a judgdment in conformity with this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE dissenting:
I regret to find myself unable to agree to this judgment.
If the United States had authorized suit to be brought against

OCTOBER TERAT, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

them on the Senate award, I should not have hesitated about
giving judgment in favor of the Choctaw Nation, upon the
facts now found by the court below, for the full amount due
according to the statement of the Secretary of the Interior.
That award has not, in my opinion, been abrogated by the
bringing of this suit. It remains, so far as anything appears
in this record, as valid and as binding today as it was when
made. The United States have neglected to pay the amount
awarded, but the Choctaw people have never, so far as this
record shows, released them from their obligation to pay. On
the contrary, it seems always to have been insisted upon.
This suit is not brought upon the award, but upon the
treaties, and it is to be determined, in my opinion, according
to the legal rights of the parties now existing as fixed by the
treaties, without regard to anything that ivas done by the
Senate under the treaty of 1855. The language of the jurisdictional statute is this: "The Court of Claims is hereby
authorized to take jurisdiction of and try all questions of difference arising out of treaty stipulations with the Choctaw
Nation, and render judgment thereon; power is hereby
granted the said court to review the entire question of differences de novo, and it shall not be estopped by any action or
award made by the Senate of the United States in pursuance
of the treaty of 1855." This, as it seems to me, means uo
more than that the questions of difference are to be tried de
wvo, as far as the award is concerned. A jucgmeut is to be
rendered. This implies that the proceeding is to be judicial
in its character, and that the judgment, is to be in accordance
with the 'principles governing the rights, of parties in the ad
ministratiop of justice by a court. The Senate, however,
were, by the treaty of 1855, made arbitrators, and they were
invested with power to determine whether the Choctaws were
"entitled" legally to the proceeds of their lands, and, if not,
whether they ought, under all the circumstances of the case,
to be "allowed" such proceeds. The Senate could consider
and act upon the moral obligations of' the United States, but
neither we nor the Court of Claims can do more than enforce
their legal liabilities.

CHOCTAW NATION, v.

UNITED STATES.

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

-What, then, are the legal obligations of the United States
under the treaties at this time, leaving the Senate award
entirely out of view? The jurisdictional statute neither
waives nor abrogates the release which was executed under
the act of Tuly 21, 1S52. The same is'true of the treaty of
1855. By the qct of 1852 payments were to be made in cash
to claimants under the fourteenth article of the treaty of
1830, for the amount of the scrip which had been awarded
under the act of August 23, 1842, but not delivered, provided
"that the final payment and satisfaction of said awards shall
be first ratified and approved as a final release of all claims
of suci iartifes under the fourteenth article." That release
was executed on the 6th of November, 1852. The treaty of
1855 recites that "the Choctaws contend that, by a just and
fair construction of the treaty of September 27, 1830, they
are of right entitled to the net proceeds of the lands ceded by
them to the United States under said treaty, and have proposed that the question of their right to the same, together
ili.s, whether
with the whole subject-matter of thei- -unsetthx ele
under
arising
States,
the
United
against
or
individual,
national
to
the
referred
shall
be
treaty,
of
said
the various provisions
and
adjustfinal
adjudication
Senate of the United States for
ment." In view of this recital, we are to construe Article XI
of the treaty, which is in these words:
"The Government of the United States not being prepared
to assent to the claim set up -under the treaty of September the
twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and thirty, and so earnestly
contended for by the Choctaws as a rule of settlement, but
justly appreciating the sacrifices, faithful services, and general
good conduct of the Choctaw people, and being desirous that
their rights and claims against the United States shall receive
just, fair, and liberal consideration, it is therefore stipulated
that the following questions be submitted for adjudication to
the Senate of the United States:
"First. Whether the Choctaws are entitled to, or shall be
allowed, the proceeds of the sale of the lands ceded by them
to the United States, &c.," or
"Second. Whether the Choctaws shall be allowed a gross

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

sum in further and full satisfaction of their claims, national
and individual, against the United States; and, if so, how
much."
Thus the whole matter was referred to the Senate to determine, 1, Whether the Choctaws were in law entitled to the
proceeds of the sale of. their lands, and, if not, then, 2, What,
under the circumstances, would be a fair and liberal settlement
of all the matters of difference, with the right under this branch
of the submission to "allow" the Choctaws the proceeds, or a
"gross sum" to be ascertained in some other way.' The Senate
decided that they were not entitled to the proceeds as a matter
of right, but that, under all the circumstances, it would be fair
and just to settle on that basis. Had the same power been
granted to the Court of Claims, I should not hesitate to affirm
a judgment to the full amount of the award if placed on that
ground. But, as has been seen, the jurisdictional statute confines the jurisdiction of the courts in this suit to a deternination of the legal rights of the parties. Under the treaty the
Senate could do what was fair and just, but we can only
adjudge according to law.
T-:s court agrees -ith the Senate committee in deciding that
the Choctaws were not legally entitled to the proceeds of the
land. In that I concur. The only inquiry, then, is, how much
',nust be paid for the violation of the treaty of 1830 by the
-United States. If the release stands, then there can only be a
recovery for the umsettled claims of the Choctaws, national and
individual. In my opinion, the release has not been invalidated
as an instrument binding in law by the findings in the case.
The United States may.l ave taken advantage of the necessities
of the Indians and exa=eted a hard bargain, but the bargain
was made and both parties promptly carried it out. The Senate, under its powers, might take the hardship of this bargain
into account and go behind the release, but, in my judgment,
we cannot. All that remains, then, is to ascertain what is
legally due from the United States on account of the national
and individual claims not included in that settleii nt, and upon
this I am entirely satisfied-with what was done by the Court
of Claims. I think the judgment should be affirmed.

