WILLJAMETTE CO. vu"BANK OF BRITISH COL.

191

Argument for Appellant.

VILLATETTE MANUFACTURING COMPANY
BANK OF BRITISH COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

v.

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued November 9,1886.-Decided November 29, 1886.

It is within the power of a legislature which creates a corporation and
grants franchises to it, to authorize it to sell those franchises.
A corporation which is authorized to sell its franchises is authorized to
mortgage them.
A statute which confers upon a corporation the right to take water from a
river and to conduct it through canals, and the exclusive right to the
hydraulic powers and privileges created by the water, and the right to
use, rent, or sell the same or any portion thereof, authorizes the corporation'to mortgage such powers and privileges.

This was a suit to foreclose a mortgage.
in the opinion of the court.

The case is'stated

-fr. George H. Iilliam, for appellant submitted on his
brief, citing: Blace v. Delaware d Raritan Canal Co., 7 C. E.
Green (22 N. J. Eq.), 130; Thomas v. Racilroad Co., 101 U. S.
71; -Jfemphis &c. Railroad v. Bery, 112 U. S. 609; .Louis,oille & 2ashville Piailroad,v. Panhes, 109 U. S. 244; Wilson
v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; 3forgan v. Louisiana,93 U. S. 217;
Head v. Amoskeag 2f'jfg Co., 113 U. S. 9, and cases therein
cited; Cass v. 3fanchester Iron Co., 9 Fed. Rep. 640; Stewart
v. Jones, 40 Missouri, 140; fahoney v. Spring Yalley Water
CO., 52 Cal. 159; Abbot v. American Hard Rubber Co., 33
Barb. 578; .JfeCullough v. .Toss, 5 Denio, 567; Headv. Providence Ins. Co., 2 Crauch, 127; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13
Pet. 519; Perrine v. Chesapeake & .Delaware Railroad, 9
How. 172; Pearce 'v. Xadison &
C Indianavolis Railroad,21
How. 441; Barclay v. Talrna, 4 Edw. Ch. 123; .faryland v.
Bank of 3laryland,6 G. & J. 205; -Farmers'Bank v. Beaston,
7 G. & J, 421; . C. 28 Am. Dec. 226; Brinkerhof v. Brown,
7 Johns Ch. 217.

OCTOBER TrERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

2-fr. J N. Dolpk for appellee cited: 1forgan, v. Louisiana,
93 U. S. 217; "Seets v. Selden, 2 Wall. 177; East Boston
Freight Co. v. Eastern Railroad,13 Allen, 422; 3.2cAilister v.
,Plant, 54 Mississippi, 106; Aurora Agricultural Society V.
Paddock, 80 Ill 263; Curtis v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9; Tiompsm v. Lambert, 44 Iowa, 239; 'Fan Arsdale v. Watson, 65 Ind.
176; Clark v. .Farmers' Tloolen .E'fg Co., 1'5 Wend. 256;
Fay vN
ffoble, 12 Gush. 1; -Etchurlbv. Buffalo, 4 Kernan (14
N. Y.), 356; WlTitewater Canal Co. v. Valette, 21 How. 414,
and cases cited there; Commercial Bank v. -e3port 3ffg
Co., 1 B. Mon. 13; S. CI 35 Am. Dec. 171; State v. 3fan&Xeld,
3 Zabriskie (23 N. J.- L.), 510; . C. 57 Am. Dec. 409; New
:Qrleans, &c., Railroad v. Delamore, 114 U. S. 501; Ragan
v. Aiken, 9 Lea, 609; Houston &f Texas Railroad v. Shirley, 54 Texas, 125; .- files v. Thone, 38 Cal. 335; Razdolph v. Larned, 12 C. E. Green (27 N: J. Eq.), 557; Leppencott v. Allander, 27 Iowa, 46.0; Bowman v. Watken, 2 McLean,
376; Felton v. Deall, 22 Vt. 170; S. 0. 54 Am. Dec. 61; Benson -v.
3fayor, 10 Barb. 223; Ladd v. Chatarrd, 1 Minor (Ala.),
366; Lewis v. Ganesville, 7 Ala. 85; Dundy v. Chambers, 23
Ill. 369; Bqlnk of Xiddlebury v. Edgerton, 30 Vt. 182; Billing
v. Breining,45 Mich. 65.
Mr. JusTro1E

M-LLa

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon.
The Willamette Woolen Manufacturing Company, the
appellant, was incorporated by an act of the territorial legislature of Oregon on the 17th day of December, 1856, which act
is in the following language:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
Ter'itory of Oregon, That George I. Williams, Alfred Stanton, Joseph Watt, Joseph Hlolman, Daniel Waldo, William
H. Rector, E. M1. Barnum, J. G. Wilson, and J. D. Boon, and
their associates, stockholders in the joint stock company known
as the 'Willamette Woolen Manufacturing Company,' and
their successors, are hereby dc-lared a body corporate and,

WILLAMETTE CO: v. BANK OF -BRITISH COL.

193

Opinion of the Court.

politic by the name and style of the 'Willamette Woolen
Manufacturing Company,' for the purpose of creating and improving water powers and privileges and manfacturing; and
the present organization of sai~dljoint stock company shall continue until changed by said corporation.
"SEC. 2. Said corporation shall have power to purchase,
receive, and possess, lands, goods, chattels, and effects of every
kind, the same to use and dispose of at pleasure; to contract
and be contracted with; to sue and be sued; to have a common
seal, and the same to use and change at pleasure; and to
ordain and establish such by-laws and regulations as it may
deem expedient for its own government and the efficient.management of its affairs, consistent with the Constitution and
laws of the United States and the laws of this :Territory.
"Se. 3. The capital stock of said corporation shall not exceed two hundred thousand dollars, and shall be divided into
shares of not less than one hundred dollars each, transferable
as its by-laws may provide.
"SEc. 4. Said corporation shall receive, possess, and enjoy
all the property, interests, and rights of said joint stock company, and shall hold and have, and may enforce by legal remedies,, all claims and obligations due or to become due, given or
that may be given to said company; and all stock due or to
become due to said company shall be payable to and collected
by said corporatidn; and the individual members of said cor-'
poration shall each and singular be liable for the corporate
debts of said company, contracted while a member of the
same, to the amount of his share of the corporate property.
"SEG. 5. Said corporation shall have power to bring water
from the Santiam River to any place or places in or near
Salem, to be brought as far as practicable through the channel
or the valley of Mill creek; and for such purpose may enter
upon lands and also said creek, and do all things proper and
suitable for a safe, direct, and economical conveyance of water
as aforesaid; but said corporation shall do no unnecessary
injury to private property, and shall be answerable in damages
to a~y person whose property is injured by its acts.
"SEC. 6. Said corporation shall have the exclusive right to
voL. cxix-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the hydraulic powers and privileges created by thb water
which it takes from the Santiam River, and may use, rent, or
sell the same, or any portion thereof, as it may deem expedient.
" SEc. 7. This act shall be in force from and after its passage."
The present suit was brought by' the Bank of British Columbia agaist that corporation to foreclose a mortgage executed
by it on the 24th day of August, 1875, to~secure the payment
of promissory notes made by the company, amounting "originally to over eighty thousand dollars, of which, at the time of
bringing the suit, only about fifteen thousand remained unpaid.
To the bill of foreclosure the defendant, in the Circuit Court,
filed an answer and a plea. The plea, which raises the only
question in issue here, is as follows:
"And for a further defence and plea to said bill of complaint, said defendant, the Willamette Woolen Manufacturing
Company, alleges that it is now, and continuously for more
than twenty years next last past has been, incorporated under
and by virtue of an act of the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of Qregon, passed December 17tl, 1856, and entitled
'An Act t6 incorporate the Willamette Woolen Manufacturing
Company.' That the fifth, section of said act provides as
follows7 viz. :
"' SE. 5. Said corporation slall have power to bring water
from the Santiam River to any place or places in or near
Salem, to be brought as far as practicable through the channel
or the valley'of Mill creek; and for such purpose may enter
upon lands and also said creek, and do all things proper and
suitable for a safe, direct, and economical conveyance of water
as aforesaid; but said corporation shall do no unnecessary injury to private property, and shall be answerable in damages
to any person whose property is injured by its act§.'
"That the rights and powers eumnerated in said section
five of said act, and thereby conferred upon defendant, constitute the personal and exclusive franchise of defendant as such
corporation, and that said mortgage mentioned in plaintiff's
bill of complaint included said franchise, and of right ought
by this honorable court to be declared null and void and of no

WILLAMETTE CO. v. BANK OF BRITISH COL.

195

Opinion of the Court.

effect so far as the same includes said franchise. That it is
necessary to the use, enjoyment, and maintenance of defendant's said franchise that defendant shall have and retain the
exclusive use and enjoyment of all the property mentioned
and described in plaintiff's mortgage set out in said bill of
complaint which relates to the power to bring water from
said Santiam River to said Salem."
That court overruled the plea, and decree was rendered for
the plaintiff ordering a sale of all the mortgaged property
upon failure to pay the sum found due within a reasonable'
time. Sale was accordingly made by the commissioner appointed for the purpose, and the manufacturing company
brought this case here on appeal.
The assignments of error made in this court are as follows:
"The court below erred "1st. In holding that the mortgage was valid as to the
franchise created by said section five of the act.
"2d. In entering a decree for the sale of said franchise.
"3d. In determining said question in the affirmative.
"4th. In holding that said corporation had power tolivest
itself of its corporate franchise by mortgage, sale, or otheiwise, without the consent of the Legislature of Oregon."
The mortgage commences its granting clause, descriptive of
the property conveyed, by saying that the said corporation
"doth hereby grant, bargain, sell, assign, transfer, set over,
and convey unto the party of the second part" -meaning the
the bank- "its assigns, successors, and representatives, all the
following real property lying and being situate in the county
of Marion, and State of Oregon, more particularly described as
follows, to wit :" Then follows a minute description by metes
and bounds and courses and distances of the realty upon which
the mill property of the party of the first part now stands.
"The design hereof being to convey the entire parcel of realty,
together with the tenements and buildings, together with all
and singular the machinery of every kind used therein or
thereabout. Also the power to bring water from the Santiam
River to any place or places in or near Salem, the same to be
brought as far as practicable through the channels or the val-

OCTOBER TERMi,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

ley of Mill creek, and for such purposes may c ter upon lands,
and also said creek, and do all things proper and suitable for a
safe and economical conveyance of water, as aforesaid; also
the exclusive right to the hydraulic, powers and privileges
created by the water from the Santiam River; also all the
rights and powers of the said party of the first part in and to
the water rights, powers, and privileges obtained under its
charter or articles of incorporation, including 'all rights and
property of kindred character acquired by said party of the
first part in any way or from any person since the incorporation aforesaid. Also all that tract or parcel of realty upon
which the party of the first part has now in operation a
sash factory" - giving a full description of it - "together
with all the rights of way now owned by said party of the
first part, as appurtenant to or necessary to the use or enjoyment of said rights, privileges, and easements in the water
aforesaid, together with all and singular the tenements, hereditaments, and appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining," &c.
The decree of the court finds "that the defendant corpbration, the Willamette Woolen Manufacturing Company, did
have full authority and power to make and execute the mortgage now here sought to be foreclosed, and that it conferred
upon the plaintiff corporation, by said mort,,age, a lien upon
all its right and power, under said Territorial act, to take
water from the Santiam River in upon its franchise touching
the taking, carrying, and using of said water, and all the
rights, privileges, and uses incident thereto," and orders a sale
of the property as mortgaged unless the defendant company
pay the um of $15,606.51 within thirty days from the date
of the decree.
The right of the corporation to make a mortgage which
should cover everything described in this mortgage under
ordinary acts of incorporation, or the provisions usually found
in such acts, might be an interesting question. It also admits
of doubt whether the mortgagor corporation in this case intended, by the use of the general language found in this
instrument describing what was conveyed, to transfer all of

WILLAAEETTE CO. v. BANK OF BRITISI COL.

197

Ophion of the Court.

the powers, the privileges; and the franchises conferred upon
it by its charter. It was undoubtedly desirable, in making
this mortgage, that if it became necessary to sell unaer it, the
purchaser, in getting the realty, the houses, the mills, the
,manufacturing imachinery, the conduits through which the
water-power came to operate .upon that machinery, and all
the tangible property necessary to the use of that waterpower, should also get the privilege of using it; and so far as
the privilege of using that particular water appropriated to
these mills was a franchise or special grant to the corporation,
it was intended-to be cdnveyed in the mortgage. For all the
powers which it was necessary to exercise in the use of this
wateras a manufacturing motive power, the Woolen Company intended to create a lien upon the property it mortgaged.
Bu there were franchises created by the act of incorporation which would be of no value to the purchaser,
which, in the nature of things, could not be transferred to it,
and which were not intended to be transferred to it. Obviously among these was the right to exist as a corporation.
Th6 sale under the decree of foreclosure did not annihilafe the
Willamette Woolen Manuficturing Company- so that it no
longer had any existence. INor was its power to make
cdntracts, to sue and be sued, to have a common seal, to buy
other lands and §ell them,- to make by-laws, and to do many
other things which an incorporated body can do, and which
are described in the second section of its charter ended with
such sale. Nor is it all clear that, if it had sold outright the
property which it mortgaged to this company, it would not
have still had the right to take other wa er from the Santiam
River and conduct it to other mills and other places for the
purposes of manufacture, provided it did not interfere with or
limit the water and the use of the water which it had sold.
It is, however, unnecessary to exanine these matters very
critically. The charter itself seems to have given unlimited
power to the company to sell everything it had, including its
exclusive right to the hydraulic powers and privileges created
by the water which it takes from ihe Santiam River. Such
is the express language of the sixth section of the charter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Describixig what it is that is granted to this corporation with
regard to the water and its use, and, in the same language,
what it may do in the way of disposing of it, it sdys, "said
corporation shall have the exclusive right to the hydraulic
powers and privileges created by the water which it takes
from the Santiam River, and may use, rent, or sell the same,
or any portion thereof, as it may deem expedient."
There seems to be here no limitation upon the power of the
corporation to dispose of whatever it acquired under the statute which called it into being. Describing in the same sentence that it shall have "the exclusive right to the hydraulic
powers and privileges created by the water which it takes
from the Santiam River," it declares that it "may use, rent,
or sell the same," which means all of it; and to show that it
does mean all of it, there is added after the words "sell the
same," the further clause, "or any portion thereof, as it may
deem expedient."
It is hardly necessary to say that this right to sell in these
general and strong terms, or to rent or to use it, must include
the power to mortgage it. A mortgage is in effect a sale with
a power of defeasance, which may ultimately end in an absolute transfer of the title. This language is in its nature inconsistent with a limitation upon the power of the company to
transfer its rights and privileges. If there is anything peculiar
in the word franchise it must include, in any definition that
can be given it, this word "privileges;" especially when the
statute speaks of "the exclusive right to the hydraulic powers
and privileges."
As we have already said, it would be unprofitable to go into
an inquiFy of how far the corporation could have transferred
these exclusive rights and privileges to anybody else, and how
far it could have divested itself of them, and of its power to
use them if no such language had been in the charter. But the
supreme legislative power, which had the right to make this
corporation, and to which it would be subject more or less in
its exercise of the powers conferred upon it, has also said, as it
had a right to say, that it may sell these privileges, "maypart
with them, and may transfer them to other persons, and we

