McCREERY v. HASKELL.
Opinion of the Court.

IcCREERY v. HASKELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued November 12, 186.-Decided December 8, 1886.

Where, under the eighth section of the act of July 23d, 1866, "to quiet land
titles in California," a survey is made by the United States Surveyor General for California of a claim to land under a confirmed Mexican grant,
and land is set off by him in satisfaction of the grant, the survey is
operative without the approval of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office. Land lying outside of such survey then becomes subject
to State selection in lieu of school sections covered by the grant, and
is open to settlement under the preEmption laws.
As between the State and the settler, the party which first commences
the proceedings required to obtain the title, if they are followed up to
the final act for its transfer, is considered to have priority of right.
The rule prevails in such cases, first in time first in right.
For lauds selected by the State of California, it has not been the practice of the Land Department to issue patents. When the selections
are approved by the Secretary of the Interior, a list of them, with the
certificate of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, is forwarded to the State authorities. This li9ting operates to transfer
the title to the lands, as of the date when the selections were made
and reported to the local land office, and cuts off all subsequent claimants. Accordingly, where a selection was made in 1868, which was,
subsequently approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and the lands
were listed to the State by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, a patent for the same lands issued upon a settlement made in
December, 1869, under the preiimption laws, conferred no title as
against the State.

This was an action for the possession of land. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
31. George F. Edrcmunds for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Walter H. Smith for defendants in error. 21r. A. T.
Britton and Zr.A. B. Browne were with him on his brief.
MR.JUSTIC

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for the possession of a tract of land in
the county of Los Angeles, California, described in the corn-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

plaint as the southeast quarter of section fourteen, in town-'
ship two, in that county. The plaintiff asserted title to the
premises by a patent of the United States, bearing date
October 10th, 1879, issued upon an alleged settlement and
purchase under the preemption laws. He claimed to have
settled upon the land December 21st, 1869; to have filed his
declaratory statement November 28th, 1871; and to have
paid the purchase money and received his certificate of entry
in April, 1876.
When this action was commenced, and when it was tried,
'Mrs. Fuller was one of the defendants. She traced title to
the' land by,'a patent of the State of California to one Keller,
bearing date March 4th, 1874, issued to him upon a certificate
of purchase, given December 21st, 1871; and by conveyance
from him to her husband, now deceased. By order of the
Probate Court of Los Angeles County the land was set apart
to her as. a homestead. The other defendant claimed possession merely as her agent and employ6. After the case was
brought to this court she died, and, upon representation that
her interest had passed to Ellen Haskell, the latter was substituted as defendant in her place.
The land was selected by the State in part satisfaction of
section sixteen of one of the townships of the county, which
was within the limits of a confirmed Mexican grant, as hereafter mentioned. By the act of Congress of March 3d, 1853,
making the public lands of California, with certain exceptions,
subject to the general preemption law of September 4th, 1841,
sections sixteen and thirty-six of each township were granted
to the State for the purpose of public schools, provided the
sections,,:before the public surveys were extended over them,
were not settled upon, and the .settlement shown by the erection of a dwelling-house, or the cultivation of a portion of
the land, or were not reserved for public uses or "taken by
private claims." If the sections were thus settled upon, or
reserved, or "taken by private claims," the State was authorized to select other lands in lieu thereof. 10 Stat. 244, c.
195, ยงg 6, 7. The M exican grant, within the claimed limits
of which the premises in controversy were situated, was

McCREERY v. HASKELL.
Opinion of the Court.

known as the Sausal Redondo Rancho; it also embraced sections sixteen and thirty-six of the township. It was made to
one Antonio Ignacio Abila, May 20th, 1837, by the then acting Governor of California. The claim 6f the gTantee to the
land was confirmed, on the 10th of June, 1855, by the Board
of Land Commissioners for the ascertaimnent and settlement
of private land claims in California, and by the District Court
of the United States, at its December term, 1856. The decree of -the court became final by the dismissal, under stipulation of the Attorney General, of the appeal taken from it to
the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1858, a survey
of the land claimed was made by a deputy surveyor, but not
being approved by the Surveyor General it amounted to
nothing more than a private survey. It was not until 1869
that any other survey was made, nor does it appear that there
was any application for one by the grantee or any party interested in the claim. For such neglect, the act of Congress of
July 23d, 1866, "to quiet land titles in California," furnished
a remedy. 14 Stat. 218, c. 219. It provided that in all
cases where a claim to land by virtue of a right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican althorities had been finally
confimed, or should thereafter be finally confirmed, and a
survey and plat thereof should not have been requested within
ten months after the passage of that act, or after the final
confirmation subsequently made, it should be the duty of the
Surveyor General of the United States for California, as soon
as practicable, to cause the lines of the public surveys to be
extended over said lands, and to set off in full satisfaction of
such grant, and according to the lines of the public surveys,
the quantity of land confirmed by such final decree, and as
nearly as could be done in accordance with it. And the act
declared that "all the land not included in such grant, as so
set off, shall be subject to the general land laws of the United
States." Under this act, the land claimed was., surveyed by a
deputy United States surveyor, George Hansen; and set
apart to the grantee in satisfaction of the grant. The survey
was approved by the Surveyor General, and over the land the
section and. township lines were extended. On the 22d of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

April, 1868, the township plats were filed in the district land
office at San Francisco.
The land lying outside of this survey thus became, in the
language of the act, "subject to the general land laws of the
United States." It was open to settlement with other public
lands, and consequent preemption by.settlers; and to selectiQn
-by the State in lieu of the school.sections within the conikrmed
Mexican grant. Fresher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. -102, 113.
As between the settler and the State, thd party which .irst
commenced the proceedings required to obtain the title if followed up to the final act of the government for its transfer,
is considered as being entitled to the property. In such cases,
the rule prevails that the first in time is the first in right In
Shepey v. Cowan, 91 U. S.330, 337, where there was a contest
between a State selection and a settler, we said: "The party
who takes the itiatory step in such cases, if followed up to
patent, is deemed to have acquired the better right, as against
others, to the premises. The patent, which is afterwards
issued, relates back to the date of the initiatory act, and cuts
off all intervening claimants. Thus the patent upon a State
selection takes effect as of the time when the selection is made
and reported to the land office, and the patent upon a preemption settlement takes effect from the time of ,the settlement
as disclosed in the declaratory statement or proofs of the settler to the register of the local land office. The action of
the State and of the settler must, of course, in sonie way, be
brought officially to the notice of the officers 5f the government having in their custody the records and other evidences
of title to the property of the United States, before their respective claims to priority of right can be recognized. But it wasnot
intended 'by the eighth section of the act of 1841, in authorizing the State to make selections of land, to interfere with
the operation, of th6 other provisions of that act, regulating
the system of settlementand preemption. The two modes of
acquiring title to land from the United States were not in conflict with each other. Both were to have full operation, that
one controlling in a -particular case under which the first
initiatory step was had."

McCREERY v.. HASKEfLI.
Opinion of the Court.

For selections of lands in California in lieu of the school
sections covered by MIeiicu grants, it has not been the practice of the Land Department to issue patents. When the
selections are approved by the Secretary of the Interior, a list of
-them, with the certificate of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, is forwarded to the State authorities. The listthus certified operates to convey the title to the State as fully
as by patent. The Revised Statutes, embodying the provisions of the statute of August 3d, 1854, 10 Stat. 346, c. 201,
provide that when a law of Congress making a grant does not
convey the fee simple title to the lands, or require patents to
be issued therefor, the lists of such lands certified by the Commissioner of the General Land Office under his seal of office,
either as originals or copies of the originals or records, "shall
be regarded as conveying the fee simple of all the lands embraced in such lists that are of the character contemplated by
such act of Congress and intended to be granted thereby; but
where lands embraced in such lists are not of the character
emnbraced by such acts'of Congress, and are not intended to
be granted thereby, said lists, so far as these lands are concerned, shall be perfectly null and void, and no right, title,
Rev. Stat.
claim, or interest shall be conveyed thereby."

ยง 2449.

Where, by reason of the loss of the school sections, ' selection is made of other lands, the list certified operates upon the
selection as of the day whei made and reported to the local
land office, and cuts off, as would a patent in such cases, all
subsequent claimants.
In the present case the selection by the authorities of the
State of the land in-controversy, in part satisfaction of school
section sixteen covered by the Mexican grant, was made on
the 22d of April, 1868, nearly one year and eight months
before the alleged settlement of the plaintiff. The subsequent
approval of the selection by the Secretary of the Interior and
the listing of the land to the State by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, completed the proceedings which vested
the title in the State as of the date of the selection.
The case at bar i similar in the principles which control

332 -

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

its disposition to that of Frasker v. O'Connor, which was
before us, at the October Term, 1884. h15 U. S. 102. It
differs from it in the fact, that there the defendants claimed
that they had acquired, by their settlement upon the land, the
right of preemption, and, as preemptors, were entitled to
patents of the United States, and, therefore, could call in
question the validity of the prociedings by Which the land
was selected by the State agents and listed to the State; but
here the-plaintiff has obtained a patent of the United States,
issued upon a settlement made after the selection of the land
by the State. In the former case the court held that the only
question for consideration by the officers of the United States
respecting lands granted to the State was, whether the State
possessed the right to claim the land under the grant, and
whether the land was subject to selection by its agents. Irregularities in the transactions between the State agents and its
purchasers were matters which did not come under review by
those officers. So far as the general government is concerned,
it was sufficient that the State did not complain, and accepted
the selection in satisfaction of the grant to her. The claim of
a .third party could not be improved by showing irregularity
in the proceedings to which the State did not object. The
issue of a patent to the alleged preemptors in that case - it
being held that they had no right to settle upon the land with
not have rena view to secure a preemptive right -would
dered their position more tenable.
The contention of the plaintiff, as we understand it, is, that
the land in controversy, being within the claimed limits of a
Mexican grant, was not open to selection by the State until
the survey of the land confirmed was finally approved by the
Land Department, and that such approval was not had until
October, 1871, after his settlement. It was upon that theory
that the local cohrt of California held that the Secretary of
the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office
(for it seems that they both acted) had inadvertently and by
mistake listed the land to the State in lieu of the quarter section supposed to be lost. It would seem that at one time the
Land Department had come to the same conclusion, although

McCREERY v. H1ASKELL.
Opinion of the Court.

its utterances on the subject were hesitat'ng and conflicting.

In .F'asherv. O'Conner, we consid6red at length the effect of
the survey of Hansen, and the right of the State to select lieu
lands outside of it. By the act of Congress of July 1st, 1864,
"to expedite the settlement of titles to lands in the State of
California," 13 Stat. 332, c. 194, the surveys of private land
claims in that State were made subject to the supervision
and control of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
Without his 'approval a survey had no binding force, and
could not be treated as*segregating the land surveyed from
the public lands. That act also -provided that it should be the
duty of the Surveyor General of California to cause all private
land claims finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and
plats thereof to be made whene0er requested by the claimants,
provided the claimant should first deposit in the District Court
of the district a sufficient sum of money to pay the expenses
of the survey and plat, and of the publication required. It was
supposed that the surveys of confirmed claims under Mexican
giuts would be thus expedited and patents sooner obtained.
But no.such result followed. Many claimants failed to ask for
a survey of their claims. Most of the grants 'wereof a specific
quantity of land lying within boundaries embracing a much
larger quantity. The specifi6 quantity to which alone the
*grantee.was entitled could be segregated and set apart only by
an official survey. Until that was had the grantee remained a
cotenant with the government in possession and use of the
whole tract. He was not, therefore, inclined to expedite the
survey. His interest was to postpone it. To do away with
the delays which grew out of this and other causes the act of
July 23, 1866, to which we have referred, was passed, declaring
that if no survey be requested, as provided by the act of 1864,
within ten months, as to previously confirmed claims, and ten
months after confirmation as to subsequently confirmed claims,
it should be the duty of the Surveyor General to survey the
land and to set off the land confirmed in full satisfaction of
the grant ; and "that all the land not included in such grant
as so set off shall be subject to the general land laws of the
United States." The survey in such cases was thus with-

334

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn from the supervision of the Land Department. That
the grantee should be bound by it, at least until the survey
should be set aside by competent authority, was not unreasonable. It was always in his power to have a survey made of
the confirmed claim under the act of 1864, which would have
been subject to the -supervision and control of the Land Department. tt was his neglect to request such survey that
conferred upon the Surveyor General the duty of acting upon
his own responsibility. The action was sufficient to subject
the land outside of the survey to State selection and other
modes of disposal of the public lands. It is true the Surveyor
General did afterwards, upon the demand of the grantee, order
a new survey and recall the township plats; but his action was
not sustained by the Secretary of the Interior. That officer
set aside the new survey and ordered the township plats to be
returned to the land office, and approved of the original survey. The selection by the State was made before the order
for a new survey and the withdrawal of the township plats.
It is not necessary to express any opinion as to what would
have been the effect upon the selection if the new survey had
been sustained. As we said in _'aos(er v. 0' onmnor, "all
that is necessary to decide here is, that, after the grant had
been surveyed and the township plats filed, the State was at
liberty to make selections from land lying outside of the survey,
and preemptors were at. liberty to settle upon it, and, if the
survey were not ultimately set aside, their rights thus initiated
would be protected." 1115 U. 5. 115.
The conclusion we have reached renders it unnecessary to
consider the efft of the judgment rendered in the case of
-Yeller v. _3fcc eery, as an adjudication of the questions presented with reference to the premises in controversy.

Judgment a~ffirnzed.

