WOLVERTON v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

WOLVERTON v. NICHOLS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued November 30, 188G.-Decided December 20, 1886.

A having applied for a patent for a placer mine in Montana, B filed an
adverse claim in the register's office under the provisions of Rev. Stat.
§ 2325, and commenced suit for the settlement of the controversy in the
District Court of the Territory becording to the provisions of Rev. Stat.
§ 2326. In the course of the trial, it appeared that, before the commencement of the suit, B had agreed with C, by a sufficient instrument under
seal, to convey the premises in dispute to C "by good and sufficient deed
of conveyance duly acknowledged," and that C was in possession when
the suit was begun and still remained in possession. The Code of Montana: provides that "an action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or his tenant of real property, against any person who
claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest." The court ordered
a nonsuit, which judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory. This court reverses the judgment of the Supreme Couyt, and
holds that as C was holding under B, and as B was bound to C to have the
title quieted, B had a right to have the verdict of the jury on the questions of fact at issue so as to settle the question which the Act of Congress required to be settled.

This was a suit instituted under the. provisions of §§ 2325,
2326, Rev. Stat. to determine adverse claims to mineral lands.
The ease is stated in the opinion of the court.
.31>. Edward 0. Wolcott for plaintiffs in error, submitted 'on
his brief.
31>. William, HerbertSnith and 2X>. Walter ff. &-mith (31r.
F. C. Ford was with them on the brief) for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLE, delivered the opinion of

the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Montana. The suit was brought in the District Court of
that Territory to settle the controverted right to a patent from

OCTOBER TERM,' 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States-for a placer mine, under §§ 2325 and 2326 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States. It is therein enacted
that a person who has located and set up' a claim for mineral
lands, and who desires to get a patent for it, shall fie in the
proper land office an application for such patent, showing a
compliance with the laws on that subject, and a plat and fieldnotes of the claim, and shall-post a copy of such plat, with a
notice of the application for the patent, in a conspicuous place
on the land, for sixty days. If no adverse claim for the same
is filed with the register within sixty days from this publication, and if the papers are otherwise in proper form, the patent
shall issue; but where an adverse claim is filed during the
period of publication, it shall be upon oath of the person making the same, showing the nature, boundaries, and extent of
his claim, and "it shall be the duty of the adverse claimant,
within thirty days after filing his claim, to commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to determine the question of the right of possession, and prosecute the same with
reasonable diligence to final judgment."
In the case before us the defendants, Nichols and Fuller,
having made their application for a patent for a placer mine,
the plaintiffs in error, the widow and heirs of Nelson Wolverton, filed the requisite claim in the register's office, adverse to
that of Nichols and Fuller, in due time, and afterwards, in
compliance with the act of Congress. instituted the present suit
in the District Court of Montana to determine the right of
possession. Upon the trial of this case before a jury, the plaintiff made what appears to be satisfactory proof that Nelson
Wolverton had in his lifetime taken the necessary steps to
establish his claim to the mine, or to that part of it now in
contest, and had been dead about two years when these proceedings were commenced. In the course of the production of
the plaintiffs' evidence it was developed by crqss-examinatiou
that Mrs. Wolverton, acting for herself and as guardian of the
two children of her deceased husband, had executed and delivered the following instrument:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, Mlargaret J. Wolverton, widow of Nelson Wolverton, deceased, for myself, and

WOLVERTON v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

as guardian for Eva Jane Wolverton and William Arthur Wolverton, infants under the age of twenty-one years, for and in
consideration of the sum of one dollar to me in hand paid by
the Colorado and Montana Smelting Company, and the farther
consideration of said company prosecuting to a successful conclusion the cause of J. R. Clark, administrator of the estate of
Nelson Wolverton, deceased, et al. v.Silas -F. King, now pending in the District Court in and for Silver Bow County, have
covenanted and agreed, and by these presents do covenant and
agree, to convey, by a good and sufficient deed of conveyance,
duly acknowledged, all that certain land bounded and described
as follows: Beginning at a point on the easterly extremity of
certain placer mining claims belonging to the estate of the said
Nelson Wolverton, and located in Independence Mining District, Silver Bow County, Territory of Montana, in Township
No. 3 North, Range No. 8 West of the principal meridian,
which said point is due east from the most soiltherly point of
a certain fence running westerly therefrom along the general
course of said Silver Bow Creek; thence in a due west line
from said point, touching- the most' southerly point of isaid
fence, a distance of about thirteen hundred feet, to a point on
the westerly extremity of placer mining claim nmnber two
hundred and thirty; thence from said point due south along
the westerly boundary of said last-named placer claim to the
most southerly boundary thereof; thence along the most
southerly boundary of said placer mining claim, and placer mining claims numbers 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239,
240, 241, and 242, in an easterly direction, to the southeast corner
of said placer mining claim number two hundred and forty-two;
thence in a northerly direction from said corner to the point or
place of beginning ; it being intended to convey all that part of
said placer mining claims numbered from two hundred and
thirty to two hundred and forty-two, both inclusive, which lies
south of the most southerly point of the fence first above mentioned: To have and to hold the same unto the said The Colorado and Montana Smelting Company, their successors and
assigns, for their own benefit and behoof forever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"In witness whereof I have hereunto placed my hand and
seal this 12th day of May, eighteen hundred and eighty-one.
" MARGAET J. WoLvERTON.
"MARGAET J. WOLXNREoN,

[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]

"As guardiana for Eva Jane To vertom and TFilliamn Arthur
Wolverton.
"In presence of

CALEB

E. IRNvNE."

It was proved that the Colorado and Montana Smelting
Company, who had held this property for two years under a
lease, or as tenants of the Wolvertons, were now in the actual
control and possession of the property mentioned in this instrument. An attempt was also made to shbw that they had
performed the condition mentioned in it, and were entitled to
the conveyance which that instrument provided should be
made when this was done. Thereupon, at the suggestion of
defendant's counsel, the court ordered a nonsuit. This judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court of the Territory, and,
is the subject of consideration here.
The ground upon which this nonsuit was ordered is that
the plaintiffs were not in the actual possession of the property
at the time of the trial, and that under the Statute of Montana, § 354 of the Code of Civil Procedure, this was an absolute necessity to the successful prosecution of this action. That
section is in the following words:
"An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person who
claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest."
But whatever may be the effect of that statute in an ordinary-action which has no direct relation to the proceedings
under the act of Congress which we have referred to, we are
of opinion that, as applicable to such a case, the construction
given by the court is entirely too restricted. The procecdings
in this case commenced by the assertion of the defendants'
claim to have a patent issue to them for the land in controversy. The next step was the filing of an adverse claim by

WOLVERTON v. NICHOLS.
'Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs in the land office, and the present suit is but a
continuation of those proceedings, prescribed by the laws of
the United States, to have a determination of the question as
to which of the contesting parties is enfitled to the patgnt.
The act of Congress requires that the certified copy of the
.judgment of the court shall be filed in the land office and shall
be there conclusive. And we must keep this main purpose, of
the action in view in any decision made with regard to the
rights of the parties.
It appears from the evidence that at the time these proceedings took place in the land office the smelting company was in
posgession as the tenant of the Wolvertons, and that the contract by which Mrs. Wolverton undertook, -upon cetain conditions, to convey all the right -of the Wolverton heirs to the
smelting company, was made after the commencement, of those"
proceedings. It might very well be imaintained that, having
thus commenced such proceedings, at a time when the possession
was in the Wolvertons, they could be conducted to a termina-,
tion in their name. But, however that may be, it is quite
clear, upon the testimony before us, that Mrs. Wolverton had
hot completely parted vith her interest and that of her children id the land in controversy at the time of the trial. The
language of the instrument, by which this is supposed to have
been done, is that she will thereafter convey the lands described. This conveyahce has never been made. The whole
thing rests in promise. or covenant to do it in the future. This
covenant also is that it shall be done by a good and sufficient
deed of conveyance. These words have always been held to
mean a conveyance'of a good title, and though in point of fact
the legal title was in the United States, as it is yet, still the
parties understood very well that they were dealing with regard to a lass of claims which the United States, by statute
and otherwise, had always recognized, and the meaning of the
covenant was that she should convey such an interest in the
property as would enable the other parties, if they chose, to
obtain the patent from the gove1'mnent. She, therefore, was
interested to. defeat the claim of the defendants, who were
seeking to get that patent; it was her duty and her interest to

•490

OCTOBER "TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

contest their claim and have'the right to the patent decided in
favor of the claims which she set up as being derived from her
late husband. This was necessary to enable her to make that
"good and sufficient conveyance" which this covenant required, and which had never been made, and if she had stood
by and permitted the defendants to obtain the patent from the
United States she would have been unable to comply with
her contract to convey a good and sufficient title to the smelting company. In fact, *so far as regards the right of possession, which alone is in controversy in this suit, the interest,
the claim, and the rights of the plaintiffs, the Wolvertons, and
of the smelting company, are in privity with each other and
are identical. And, inasmuch as this is a contest provided for
by the statutes of the United States, in order that the officers
of the land department may be informed which of the two
contestants before it is entitled to the patent, we see no reason
why the plaintiffs here should not have been permitted to have
the verdict of a jury on that question in this suit. And, since
such possession as fhe smelting company had was a part of
and in subordination to the title of the Wolvertons, the judgment in this case between the parties to this suit would have
settled the question which the act of Congress required to be
settled. We are of opinion, therefore, that, so far as regards
this, the main ground on which the court below directed a
nonsuit, that court erred.
Something is said in the.brief about the fact that the plaintiffs have failed to show that the possession of these parties
conflicted. On that point it is sufficient to say that the plaintiffs, in their petition, asserted a claim to the southeast quarter
of the southeast quarter of section 23, in Township 3 North,
Range 8 West of the principal meridian of Montana., and that
the defendants, in their answer, admit that they have applied
for a patent for the same land exactly. If they did not desire
to have the question of the right of possession to any part of
these forty acres submitted to a jury on the ground that they
did not claim it, they should have made a disclaimer. Apart
from thi3, so far as relates to the evidence on the subject, we
are of opinion that there was sufficient to go to the jury to

