296

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Syllabus.

O'Mfalley v. Farley. Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Iowa. This cause wa submitted
with Schmidt v. Cobb, by the same counsel. It involved the same

principles, and, like that case, was

Affli-red by a Divided Court.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE, AND WESTERN RAILROAD v. NICKALS.
APPE L FROM THE CorCUiT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 1, 2, 1859. -Decided

November 29, 1556.

The Erie Railway Company, being embarrassed and in the hands of a.receiver, appointed in a suit for the foreclosure of two of the mortgages
upon the property of the company, its creditors and its shareholders, preferred and common, entered into an agreement for the reorganization of
the company, to be accomplished by means of a foreclosure. Among other
things it was agreed that there should be issued "preferred stock, to au
amount equal to the preferred stock of the Erie Railway Company now
outstanding, to wit, eighty five thousand three hundred and sixty nine
shares, of the nominal amount of one hundred dollars each, entitling the
holders to non-cumulative dividends, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
in preference to the payment of any dividend on the common stock, but
dependent on the profits of each particular year as declared by the boord
of directors." The mortgage was foreclosed, and a new company was organizecd, and the new preferred stock was issued as agreed. The directors
of the new company reported to its share and bond holders that during
and for the year ending September 30, 1880, the operations of the road
left a net profit of ;1,790,620.71, which had been applied to making a double
track, a.nd other improvements on the property of the company. A, a
preferred stockholder, on behalf of himself and other holders, filed a bill
in equity to compel the company to pay a dividend to the holders of
preferred stock. Held, That while the preferred stockholders are entitled
to a six per cent. dividend in advance of the common stockholders, they
are not entitled, as of right, to dividends, payable out of the net profits
accruing in any particular year, unless the directors declare or ought to
declare a dividend payable out of such profits; and that whether a dividend
should be declared in any year, is a matter belonging in the first instance
to the directors to determine, with reference to the condition of the coinpany's property and affairs as a whole.

NEW YORk,, &c., .RAILJROAV- v., "WIKALS.29
29Z
Argument for Appellants.

This was a bill in equity brought by a holdei of preferred
stock of the New York, Lake Erie, and Western Railroad
Company, on behalf, of himself and other stockh'olders; to
compel the company to declare and pay a dividend to the
preferred stockholders out of the net .profits from the operations of 'the company during the year ending September 30,
1880. Decree below in favor of complainants, from which
respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of
the court.
-

:Jfl. IF.D. Sip an and .Ar. Benjamin H. Bristow -(r.
'David Tilleox was with Mr. Bristow on his brief), for appellant, cited: Wilistoan v. Miekigh n Southern Railroad, 13
Allen, 400; Taft v. Providence & Fishkill Railroad,8 R. I.
310; St. John v. Erie Railway, 10 Blatchford, -71; . C. 22
Wall. 136; Wfarren v. -ring, 108 IU.S. 389; Clearwater v.
.Meredith, 1 Wall. 25; Union PaciPf Railroad v. United
AStates, 99 U. S. 402; Barnard v. Fermont & .MassachusetMs
.Raiload, 7 Allen, 512; ]Verplanc- v. XAereantile Ins. Co., 1
Edw. Oh. 84; Butts v. Wood, 38 Barb. 181; Luling v. Atlan-"
tic Ins. Co., 45 Barb. 510; . C. 50'Barb. 520 ; S; C. 51 N.
Y. 207; Boardman v. -Lake Shore Railway, 84 N. Y. 157;
v. Roekeste r & Genessee Railroad,4 Abbott's Pr. N.
S. (N.Y.) 107; Dent v. Ian da Tramways "Uo.,L. R. 16 Oh.
Div. 344; Richardsonv. Vernont d assachwsetts Railroad,
44 Vt. 613; Hill v. lAewichawanic Go., 8 liun, 459; S. C
71 N. Y. 593; Spear v. Hart, 3 Robertson, 420; Culver v.
Reno Real Estate Co., 91 Penn. St. 367; Stevens v. South
-DevonRailway, 9 Uare, 313; Bwundage v. Branczage, 60 N.
Y. 544; L-omlardo v. Case,- 45 Barb. 95 ,-oppoer V. Si~e, 47
N. Y. Superior Ct. 77; Bright v. Lord, 51 id.272; Chiaf'ee v. Rutland Railroad,55 Vt. 110; AcGregorv. HTome Ins. Co.,
6 Stewart (33 N. J. Eq.), 181; Elkins v. Camiden & Atlantic
Co., 9 Stewart (36 N. J. Eq.), 233; Lockhart v. Van Alstyne,
31 Mich. 76 ; lurina v. Potomac Co., 8 Pet. 281 ; Curran v.
'ArkansA, 15 How. 304; Railroad Co. v. -Howard,7 Wall.
392

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

211r. C.E. Tracy, for appellee, cited: Bates v. Androscoggi
Railroad,49 Maine, 491; BOarduarnv. -Lake Shore Railroad,
84 N. Y. 157 ; Prouty v. _Xiehigaw SoutkerA Railroad,1 Hun,
655; S. C. 85 N. Y. 272; Hewrly v. Great Northeryb Railway,
4 Kay & Johns. 1 ; Matthews v. Great NVorthernr Raiway, 5
Jurist, N. S., Part 1, 284; Allen v. JLondonderry & Enniskillen Railway, 25 Weekly Reporter, 524; -Dent v. Londo'n
Tramways Co., L. R. 16 Ch. Div. 344, 353; Barnard v. Vermont & 3fassachusetts Raiload,7 Allen, 512; Richardsor v.
Vermont &t Jfassacdwsetts Raflroal, 44 Vt. 613; TWestcheste;r
d&PhiladelphiaRailroad v. Jackson, 77 Penn. St. 321 ; Scott
v. Eagle Fire Ins. Co., 7 Paige, 198.
IR. JusTIcF

IIARLA

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the decree below it was adjddged, in accordance with
the prayer of the bill, that the New York, Lake Erie and
Western Raih'oad Company was required by its articles of association to declare a dividend of six per cent. upon its preferred stock, for the year ending September 30th, 1880, payable out of the net profits accruing that year from the use of its
property, after meeting operating expenses, interest on fuided
debt, rentals of leased lines, and other fixed charges. A judgment was rendered against it for $20,280 -the amount which
the plaintiffs would have received if a dividend had been made
- with interest thereon from January 15, 1881, to the date of
the decree, and also for their costs and disbursements. The
cause was referred to a special commissioner to ascertain the
names of all other parties entitled to receive similar dividends.
The case made by the pleadings, exhibits, and*proofs, is,
substantially, as will now be stated.
The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company having commenced
an action in the Suipreme Court'of New York for the foreclosure of two mortgages executed by the Erie Railway Company upon its line of railway, property, rights, privileges, and
franchises -one. of September 1, 1870, to secure its obligations known as first consolidated mortgage bonds and sterling
loan bonds, and the other of February 4, 1874, to, secure its

NEW YORK, &c., RAILROAD v. NICKALS.

299

Opinion of the Court.

obligations known as second consolidated mortgage bonds and
gold convertible bonds -and, having also brought ancillary
suits for the foreclosure of the same mortgages in the States of
New 'Jersey and Pennsylvania, certain parties, on the 14th of
December, 1877, entered into a plan and agreement for thie readjustment of their rights in the mortgaged premises upon an
equitable basis. Those constituting in that agreement the parties of the first pait were holders of common and preferred
stock of the Erie Railway Company, of coupons of the first
consolidated mortgage and sterling loan bonds, and of bonds
and coupons both of 'the second consolidated mortgage and
gold convertible sefies. The parties of the second-part, Edwin
D. Morgan, John Lowber Welsh, and David A. Wells, were
purchasing trustees. The agreement provided for co6peration
in all proceedings for final foreclosures and sales in the'respective States under the mortgage of February 4, 1874; for the
purchase of the mortgaged premises and franchises by the
trustees with bonds and coupbns and other means to be placed
at their disposal for that purpose by the parties of the first
part; and for the organization by such trustees, in conformity
with the laws of New York, of a new corporation, with an
amount of stock not exceeding the then amount of the stock
of the Erie Railway Company, and which should hold the
property, rights, and franchises so purchased, subject to six
prior mortgages then resting upon the premises or upon part,
of them, including the first consolidated mortgage of Septem.
ber 1, 1870. The-new corporation was required, as the consideration for the pr6perty, rights, and franchises pv2chased, to
deliver to the partiea of the first part its funded coupon bonds;
bearing interest at seven per cent. in gold, to an amount equal
in the aggregate to the coupons of the first consolidated mortgage to be funded by those parties; mortgage bonds, bearing
six per cent. interest in gold, to an amount equal to the principal of the second consolidated and gold convertible bonds held
by the parties and secured by the mortgage of February 4,
1874 - the back interest to be represented by funded coupon
b)nds. In reference to the sterling loan bonds, the agreement
provided that they should be regarded as having been ex-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

changed for the first consolidated mortgage bonds on the 1st
of September, 1875, the coupons due on that clay being funded
at the rate of six per cent. per annum as it stood previous to
such assumed exchange.
The provisions of the plan and agreement which bear more
or less upon the question before the court, are as follows:
"13. Preferred stock, to an amount equal to the preferred
stock of the Erie Railway Company now outstanding, to wit,
eighty five thousand three hundred and sixty nine (85,369)
shares, of the nominal amount of one hundred dollars each,
entitling the holders to non-cumulative dividends, at the rate
of six per cent. per annum, in preference to the payment of
any dividend on the common stock, but dependent on the
,profits Qf each particular year, as declared by the board of
directors.
"14. Common stock, to an amount equal to the amount of
the common stock of the said company now outstanding, to
wit, seven hundred and eighty thousand shares, of the nominal amount of one hundred dollars each."
"18. Preferred stock of the old company, in respect of
which three dollars gold for each share has been or ma:
be paid, and common stock of the old company, in respect
of which six dollars gold per share has been paid or may
- be paid, may be exchanged for the new stock, in paragraphs
13 and 14 mentioned, share per share, preferred for prefrred, and common for common, without any liability to
make any further payment in respect of such new stock:
Provided,however, That such new stock, whether common or
preferred, shall be issued and held in conformity with and
subject to the trust for voting hereinafter mentioned.
"19. In addition -to the new common and preferred stock,
the parties of the first part shall also receive for the amount
of such payments, as mentioned in the last preceding paragraph, non-cumulative income bonds, without mortgage security, payable- in gold, in London and New York, on the first
day of June, 1977, and bearing interest from December 1,
1879, 'also payable in gold, in London and New York, at the
rate of six per cent. per annum, or at such lesser rate for. any

NEW, YORK,- &-c., RAILROAD v, NICKALS.

"301

Opiion bf the Court.

fiscal year as the'net earnings of thie company for that year,
as declared 'by the board of, directors and applicable for the,
purpose, shall ,be sufficient to satisfy; these bonds to have
yearly coupons attached.
"20. Preferred stock; in respect of which two dollars gold
-per share has been paid or may be paid, and common stock,
in respect of which four dollars gold per share has been or
may be paid, may be exchanged share for share, but in conformity with and. subject to the said trust for voting, for new
stock of like class, without any liability to'make any further
payment i respect of such new stock; but no income bonds
or other obligation 6r security shall be issued or delivered in
respect of such reduced payments.
"21. .
.
; and all payments made or to be made - i
respect of old, preferred or common stock shall be deemed to
be in consideration of the concessions and agreements made
by the holders, of the said first and second -consolidated mortgage and gold convertible bonds, the available funds resulting
from such concessions being used for the improvement or
increase of the property of the new company.
I"22. The stock of the new company, both common and
preferred, not required for exchange as above provided, may,
with the consent of the parties of the first part, but'not otherwise, be issued and disposed of by the company for its own
benefit, at such rates and upon such terms as to the said company may seem proper. All moneys which have been or may
here.9fter be paid in respect of stock as above s6t forth, and
which shall not be required for the purpose of carrying into
execution this plan and agreement, shall be expended for the
benefit of said new company, or in the improvement or
increase of its property, under the direction of the parties of
the first part, and any balance not so expended shall be paid
over to the said new company."
The property and franchises in question were sold under
decrees of foreclosure on the 24th of April, 1878, and were
purchased by the trustees, subject to the before mentioned six
•mortgages. Immediately thereafter, on April 26th, 1878, the
purchasing committee and
their associates organized the New
I

OCTOBER TtIX, 1886.
Opinion, of the Court.

York, 'Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company, in conformity with statutes providing for the reorganization of rail
roads sold under mortgage, and for the formation in such
cases of new companies. 'Laws of N. Y., 1874, c. 430;
1876, c. 446. The provisions of the .before mentioned plan
and agreement were set out in the articles of association' On
the 9th of December, 1880, the board of directors 'submitted
to shareholders and bondholders a report of the operations of
the new company for the fiscal year ending September 30,
'1880, from. which it appears that the gross earnings for that
year were $18,693,108.86, while the operating expenses were'
$11,643,925.35, leaving $7,049,183.51 as "net earnings from
traffic." To this sum the report adds $783,956.60 "as earnings from other sources," making $7,833,1740.16 as the totLI
earnings for the. year in question. From the last sum,
$6,042,519.45 were deducted for "interest on funded debt,
rentals of leased lines, and other charges," leaving, in the language of the report, "a net profit from the operations of the
year Qf $1,790,620.71."
Referring to the latter sum, the
report continues: "This amount, together with $737,119.34
received during the year from the assessments paid on the
stock of the Erie Railway Company, has been applied to the
building of double track, erection of buildings, providing additional equipment, acquiring and constructing docks at Buffalo
and Jersey City, and to the addition of other improvements
to the road and property."
The theory of the present suit is that the sum of $1,790,620.71 - ascertained to be the "net profit" derived from the
operations of the company for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1880, after paying operating expenses and fixed charges
- constituted a fund applicable, primarily, to the payment of
a six per cent. dividend upon preferred stock. The use of that
fund for any: other purpose was, it is claimed, a breach of trust
on the part of .the company and a violation of rights secured
to.preferred stockholders, both by the plan and agreement of
December 14, 1877, and by the company's articles of association. On the day the directors made their report to shareholders, they declared, by resolution, that. in the then condition'

'NEW' YORK, &c., RAILROAD v. NICKALS.

303

Opinion of the Court.

of the company's property, they did not "deem it wise or
expedient to declare a dividend upon its preferred stock." It
also clearly appears in evidence that the earnings for the year
in question, after paying operating expenses, and fixed charges,
together with the amount realized from assessments paid on
stock, were, in good faith, used in improving the company's
road and other property; that these improvements were in
pursuance of a general plan marked out pending. negotiations
for reorganization; that the estimate of their extent and cost
was made with reference to a general understanding that they
would be commenced and carried to completion as rapidly as
possible with money derived from assessments on stockholders,
from concessions of interest by bondholders, from earnings of
the company, and from other sources; that the capacity of
the company to make earnings with less expense than formerly
in proportion to service rendered, and therefore its ability to
earn the net profit which it did in 1880, was due to the
bettered condition of the road and its equipment arising from
these improvements, "thus, in the increase of traffic, and in
the reduction of expenses, producing this result of 81,790,620./1." The testimony of Mr. Jewett, the president of the
company, which is uncontradicted by any evidence in the
record, is that the use of that fund in the way in which it was
applied was imperatively demanded by the interests as well of
creditors, shareholders, and bondholders, as of the public. In
answer to the question, whether these expenditures increased
the earning capacity of the road and diminished relatively the
expQnse of doing business, he said: "In my judgment, if -these
improvements had not been made, and most judiciously made,
the company could not have paid its fixed charges; it voe&Z
have agair,gone into bankr.uptcy an/ the entire interest of tMe
toekrobde4a 6een destroyed."
The court below adjudged, in effect, that the right to a
dividend, for the year ending September 30, 1880, payable
out of the "net profit" arising from the operations for that
period, was absolutely secured to preferred stockholders both
by the plan and agreement and by the articles of association.
Such, it held, wis the contract bet'ween the company and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the preferred stockholders, which the court was not at liberty
to disregard. This, in our judgment, is an erroneous interpre-,
tation of both the agreement and the company's charter.
'There is nothing in the language of either necessarily depriving
the,directors of the discretion with which managing agents of
corporations are usually invested, when distributing the earnings of property committed to their hands. As was said by
the court, in Clearwater v. 3fereditk, 1 Wall. 25, 40, "when
any person takes stock in a railroad corporation he has entered
into a contract with the company that his interests shall.'be
subject to the direction and control of the proper authorities
of the corporation, to accomplish the object for which the
company was organized." The directors of such corporations,
having opportunities not ordinarily possessed by others of
knowing the resources and condition of the property under
their control, are in a better position than stockholders to
determine whether, in view of the duties which the corporation 'owes to the public, and of all its liabilities, it will be prudent in any particular year to declare a dividend upon stock.
While their authority in respect of these matters may, of
course, be controlled or modified by the company's charter,
and while the power of the courts may be invoked for~the protection of stockholderm against bad faith upon the part' of the
directors, we should hesitate to assume that either the legislature or the parties intended to deprive the corporation, by its
managers, of the power to protect the interests of all, includ-'
ing the public, by using earnings when necessary, or when, in
good faith, believed to be necessary, for the. preservation' or
improvement of the property intrusted to its control.
The claim of the appellees is based mainly on the 13th
article of the agreement of 1877. It is c.ontended that, as
the non-cumulative dividend to which preferred stockholders
were entitled was "dependent on the profits of each particular
year, as declared by the board of directors," the intention was
to require the declaration and payment of a dividend in eirery
year when it should be officially declared that there were net
profits from the operations of that year.
• It is not without significance that the words just quoted

NEW YORK, &c.,

RAILROAD v. NICKALS.

305

Opinion' of the Court.

from the preliminary agreement for organization are omitted
from that paragraph of the.articles of association which, in
obedience to the requirement of the statute, Laws of 1876,
e. 446, § 1, sub-div. 2, specifies -the rights of each class of
stockholders. That paragraph provides that the holders,
of preferred stock shall be entitled to "non-cumulative dividends at the rate of six per cent. per anilum in preference
to the payment of any dividend on common stock." The
omission, in that connection, of the words "but dependent on
the profits of each particular year, as declared by the board
of directors," gives some force to the suggestion of counsel
that the contemporaneous construction of those words by the
parties was, that they conferred no such right upon preferred
stockholders as they now claim. Independently of this view,
we are of opinion that the contention of appellees is not sustained by a reasonable construction of the agreement. That
instrument did, indeed, provide for preferred shareholders
being paid a dividend of six per cent. before any dividend was
paid to common shareholders. But it was not intended to
confer upon the former an absolute right to a dividend in any
particular year, dependent alone on the fact, or the official
ascertainment of the fact, that there were profts in that year,
after paying operating expenses 'and fixed charges. The
words of the 13th article "as. declared by the board of directors' do not qualify the words ".dependent on the profits for
each particular year." They should rather be read in connection with the preceding words, "non-cumlative dividends, at
the rate of six per cent. per annum, in preference to the payment bf any dividend on the common stock." Preferred
stockholders of the old company, receiving in exchange preferred stock in the new company, did not thereby become,
creditors of the latter. Their payments on account of old
stock were in consideration of the concessions and agreements
made by bondholders. In certain circumstances they also
received income bonds. They were stockholders in the old
corporation, and they held that- relation to the reorganized
company. What was stipulated to be paid to them as holders
of preferred stock in the new company was not a debt, payable
VOL. c xix-20

OCTOBER TERM, . 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in every event out of the general funds of the corporatiQn,
but a. dividend, "as declared by the board of directors," 9nd
payable out of such portion of the profits as should be set
apart for distribution among shareholders; non-cumulative,
because "dependent on the profits of each particular year,"
and not to be fastened on the profits of succeeding years.
That the parties contemplated a declaration of a dividend, and
not a mere statement of net profits during a designated period,
is made evident by the requirement that "dividends" to preferred stockholders should be paid "in preference to the payment of any dividend on the common stock." This language
is not consistent with the theory that the holders of preferred
stock were entitled to six per cent. thereon simply because
there were profits, and irrespective of any declaration of a
dividend. A declaration of profits, as, in itself, and without
further action .by the directors, entitling shareholders to dividends, is unknown in the law or in the practice of corpora,
tions. Dividends are "-declared" by some formal act of the
corporation - the question whether there are or are not profits
being settled entirely by the accounts of the company as kept
by subordinate officers, not by the mere statement of directors
as to what appears upon its books.
A different view would lead to results which sound policy
would seem to forbid, and which, therefore, it is not to be supposed were contemplated by the parties. For, if preferred
stockholders become entitled to dividends upon a mere ascertainment of profits for a particular year, the duty of the company to maintain its track and cars in such condition as to
accommodate the public and provide for the safe transportation
of passengers and freight would be subordinate t6their right
to payment out of the funds remaining on hand after meeting
current expenses and fixed charges.. Indeed, there is some
ground to contend that, according to appellees' interpretation
of the charter, the directors were not at liberty, in any year
when the current receipts were in excess of operating expenses,
to pay even interest on funded debt, or rentals of leased lines,
before paying a'dividend on preferred stock. We are of opinion that while the agreement of 1877 and the articles of asso-

NEW YORK, &c., RAILROAD v. NICKALS.

307

Opinion of the Court.

ciation sustain the claim of prefe-zed stockholders to a six per
cent. dividend in advance of common stockholders, the former
are not entitled, of right, to dividends, payable out of the net
profits accruing in any particular year, unless the directors of
the company formally declare, or ought to declare, a dividendpayable out of such profits; and whether a dividend should be
declared in any year is a matter belonging in the first instance
to the directors to determine; with reference to the condition
of the company's property and affairs as a whole. As the evidence shows that the profits for the year ending September 30,
1880, were applied to objects that were legitimate and proper,
and as the condition of the company was not such as to make
the declaration of a dividend a duty upon the part of the directors, we perceive no ground upon which the claim of the appellees can be sustained.
Attention is called by counsel to the language of the 19th
article of the plan and agreement of reorganization, as throwing
some light on the true interpretation of the 13th article. We
do not think that that article aids the contention of appellees.
'The non-cumulative income bonds, provided for in the 19th
article, were to bear six per cent. interest, or such lesser rate,
"for any fiscal year, as the net earnings of the company for
that year, as declared by the board of directors and applicable
for the purpose, shall be sufficient to satisfy." So far froiA
these words aiding the contention of appellees, they tend to
show that the directors had the right to determine whether
the condition of the company did not require a reduction of
the interest. Such, we think, is the meaning of the words" and
applicable for the purpose." The applicability of net earnings
for interest on such income bonds could only be determined by
them.
A case very much resembling this is St. John v. Erie Railway Co., 22 Wall. 136, 147. Certain creditors ofthat company
received preferred stock, in lieu of payment of their debts,
under a clause of its charter providing that such stock should
be entitled "to preferred dividends out of the net earnings of
said road (if earned in the current year, but not otherwise), not
to exceed seven per cent. in any one year, payable semi-annu-

OCTOBER TERMI, '1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ally, after payment of mortgage interest and delayed coupons
in full." A preferred stockholder sought by suit to enforce
full payment of his dividends from the net earnings, prior to
any payment on account of new leases of roads, or of debts
subsequently contracted for borrowed money used in the repair
and equipment of the road, in paying rent on leased lines, and
interest on the money so borrowed. The Circuit Court, 10
Blatchf6rd, 271, 276, said: "What it (the stock) is entitled to
is 'dividends,; and only 'dividends,' and they are of a defined
and special character. It is entitled to nothing else. .It has
no privilege or priority by reason of being preferred stock,
except in, reference to stock that is not so preferred, that is,,
common stock. In reference to such common stobk the preferred stock is entitled to its specified preferential dividends,
and is not entitled to anything else in reference to anything."
Upon appeal to this court it was held that the suit could not
* be maintained; that 'the takers of the preferred stock had
abandoned their position as creditors and assumed that of
stockholders, in which capacity they could claim dividends
only when they were declared oo uhould be declared; that they
-were only entitled to dividends out of the net earnings of the
principal road and its adjuncfs accruing in the current year;
that, as the company had not agreed to be limited in the exercise of its faculties and franchises, it had thi right to conduct
its operations in good faith as it might see fit; and that the
materials for the computation of its net e.rnings in any particular year were to be derived from all of its operations, viewing
its business as a unit, and not from a part of its operations, or
without reference to the necessary and legitimate purposes to
which its current receipts might be applied for the benefit of
all interested in the property. These principles were again
applied in the analogous case of Warren v. Zing, 108 U. S.
389. See also Urnion Pacifc Railroad v. Urnited States, 99
U. S. 402; Barnardv. Ve,'mont and .31assachusettsRailroad,
7 Allen, 512; Williston v. Michigan Southern Railroad, 13
Allen, 400;
qcaffee v. Rutland Railroad,55 Vt. 110; Taft
v Hartford, ,Prov;dence, & Fishkill Railroad, 8 R. I. 310;
Elkins v. Canidern& Atlantic Co., 36 N. J. Eq. (9 Stewart) 233;

NEW YORK,' &c.,

RAILROAD v. "NICKALS.

309

Opinion of the Court.

Lockkart v. Van .Alstyne, 31 Alich. 76; Culve&' v. Reio Reaz,

Atato Co., 91 Penn. St. 367.'
The views we have expressed are not inconsistent with the
-adjudged cases upon which appellees' counsel chiefly rely.. A
brief reference to some of them will be sufficient. In -Dentv.
.n donr Tramways Co., 16 Ch. Div. 344, decided by Sir George
Jessel, Master of the. Rolls, at special term, the company increased its.capital stock by an issue uf hareds of the same denominatioii as the prior shares, "bearing a preferential dividend of six per cent. per annm over the present shares of the
company, dependent upon the piofits ofthe particular year
only." There the question was whether the company was
bound to pay preferred stockholders the amount of a dividend
declared for the half year ending December 31, 1878, but
which it had refused to pays and also a dividend for-the year
1879, which, it is to be inferred from the report qf the.case,
ought to have been declared. The precise point determined is
shown in these remarks of the court: "The argum6nt .of the
company amounts to this, that inasmuch as they have improperly paid to their ordinary shareholders very large sums of
money which did not belong to them, they, the company, are
entitled to make good that deficiency by taking away the fund
available for the preference shareholders, to an amount .required to put the tramway in proper order. When the .argument is stated in that way, it is. clear that it cannot be sustained. The company either have a right to recover back
from the ordinary shareholders any sum over-paid, or not. If
they have a right, they must recover, them; if they have no
right t6 recover them, a fortio)i they have no right to recover them from the preference shareholders, and, of course,
still less right to take away the dividends from the preference
shareholders."
It is scarcely necessary to say that the present case is entirely different from the one decided by the Eniglish court. No
question was raised in the latter as to the authority and discretion of directors to use earnings for the improvement of the
corporate property froin year to year. ' It was, in effect, a
contest simply between preferred and common stockholders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

The only point decided was, that the payment of large sums
of money to common stockholders which should have been
used in the repair of the tramway, was not a valid ground for
refusing to pay preferred stockholders dividends to which they
were entitled. To withhold dividends from preferred stockholders, in order to make good a deficiency caused by payments to common shareholders -which ought not to have been
made, was practically t; destroy the right of preference. A
different decision would have made the preferred shareholders
pay what the company should have recovered from the common stockholders by suit.
The case of
uichardwn v. TFemont & _-assaeltusetts R2ail.road, 44 Vt. 613, 6022, is also relied upon to support the decree

below. There the question was as to the right to recover interest dividends on stock, to be paid in full at a specified date,
if there was then sufficient money in the company's treasury.
If there was not enough for that purpose, then as much should
be paid as the amount in the treasury justified; the balance
when the treasurer was able to make payment. The defence
was that there was an adequate remedy at law and that the
stock cortificates were void. The certificates were held to be
vali(., the right to resort to equity was sustained, and the coinpany was required to pay. The vital fact in that case distinguishing it from this one is, that the company substantially
admitted that it had funds applicable to the payment of the
claims, if they should be held to be valid. Some of the general
observations of the court seem to be in accord with the views we
have expressed. "The mere fact," the court said, "of the corporation having funds in its treasury sufficient in amount to
pay the orators, would not be sufficient to show the ability of
the eozporatian,contemplated in the vote and certificates. That
ability must consist of a fund adequate not only for the payment of the claims of the plaintiffs in the cause, but for the
payment of all other stockholders having like claims; and
must be a surplus fund over and above what is requisite for
the payment of the current expenses of the business, for discharging its duties to creditors, and over and above what reasonable prudence would require to be kept in the treasury to

NEW YORK,

.&c.,

RAILROAD v. NICKALS.

311

Opinion of the Court.

meet the accidents, risks, and contingencies incident to the
business of operating the railroad. In other words, there must
be such pecuniary ability as would, but. for the obligation to
pay this interest, justify the payment of a dividend to stockholders."
Our attention is also called to the case of Boa'dma v. Lake
Shore & Mifchigan, Southeri Railway, 84 N. Y. 157. But it
has no direct bearing on the questions before us. It only decides that the dividends provided for in the contract there in.
question were not only to be preferred, but, being guaranteed,
were cumulative, and a specific charge upon the accruing
profits, to be paid, as arrears, before any other dividends were
paid on the common stock. "The doctrine," said the court,
"that preference shareholders are entitled to be first paid the
amount of dividends guaranteed, and of all arrears of dividends or interest, before the other shareholders are entitled to
receive anything, and, although they can receive no profits
where none are earned, yet as soon as there are any profits to
divide they are entitled to the same, is fully supported by authority." It thus appears that that was a contest between
preferred and common stockholders. No questions arose as
to whether the company, under the circumstances, could or
could not, in their discretion, have withheld a declaration of
dividend.
Without further discussing the questions involved or suggesting other grounds upon which our conclusion might rest,
we are satisfied that the complainants are not entitled to
recoveg.
The decree is reversed, and the cause is remxanded, witk
directions to'disiniss the bill.

