UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

People's Insurance Corapany v. Wisconsin. Error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The cause was submitted with GermaniaInsurance Co. v.Wisconsin,
by the same counsel. MIR. CnmF JUSTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court. The material facts in this case are substantially

like those in Germania Insurance Co. v. Wisconsin, just decided,
and the questions for determination are the same.
remanding the suit is affirmed on that authority.

The order

Afflrned.

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADIS.
Submitted December 6,18S6.-Decided December 13, 1S6.

In the exercise of its general jurisdiction appeals lie to this court from
judgments of the Court of Claims.
An appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims, taken before the right
of appeal has expired, is not vacated by the appropriation by Congress
of the amount necessary to pay the judgment.

This was a motion to dismiss.

The case is stated in the

opinion of the court.

A r. J"ob? PaulJones, in person, for the motion.
.ib'. Attorney General and Iii;r. Heber J. IJay, Assistant
Attorney, opposing.

Mr. CmEF JsIE

WArTE delivered the opinion of the court.

The grounds of this motion are:
1. That under the law as it now stands no appeal lies from
a judgment of the Court of Claims to this court; and,
2. That since the appeal was taken Congress has appropriated the amount necessary to pay the judgment.
Tle case of Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561, holding
that no appeal would lie from a judgment of the Court of
Claims to this court, was announced March 10, 1865. The,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

cause was originally submitted on the 18th of December, 1863,
and on the 10th of April, 1864, it was ordered for arguiment
on the second day of the next term. Chief Justice Taney
died October 12, 1864, and the case was not reargued under
the special order of the previous term until January 3, 1865.
Consequently, the opinion published as an appendix to 117
U. S. 697 must have been prepared by him before the decision
was actually made. The records of the court show that in
announcing the judgment Chief Justice Chase said: "We
think that the authority given to the head of an Executive
Department by necessary, implication in the 14th section of
the amended Court of Claims, Act, to revise all the decisions
of that court requiring payment of money, denies to it the
judicial power, from the exercise of which alone appeals can
be taken to this court. The reasons which necessitate this
conclusion may be more fully announced hereafter. At present, we restrict ourselves to this general statement, -and to the,
direction that the cause be dismissed for want of jurisdiction."
This differs somewhat fron the case as keported by Mr.
Wallace, and shows precisely the ground of the opinion, to
wit, the special provisions of ยง 14. That section was as
follows:
"SEc. 14. That-no money shall be paid out of the Treasury
for any claim passed on by the Court of Claims till after an
appropriation therefor shall have been estimated for by the
Secretary of the Treasury."
At the next session of Congress after this decision the objectionable section was repealed by the act of March 17, 1866,
c. 19, 14 Stat. 9, and the Court of Claims was directed to
transmit, at the end of every term, a copy of its decisions to
the heads of departments and certain other officers specially
mentioned. From that time until the presentation of this
motion it has never been doubted that appeals would lie.
Indeed, immediately after the repealing act went into effect,
and before the adjournment of the term then being held, a set
of mules regulating such appeals was promulgated by this
court, and it is safe to say that there has never been a term
since in which many cases of the kind have not been heard

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opiulon of the Court.

and decided without objection from any one. At December
Term, 1866, in JDe Groot v. United States, 5 Wall. 419, 427,

the new rules were referred to and explained; and at the next
term, in December, 1867, in United States v. Alire, 6 Wall.
573, 576, a case which could not be entertained on a general
appeal, was sent back in order that a special appeal might be
allowed of which this court could take jurisdiction. In delivering the opinion, Mr. Justice Nelson, who was with the
majority when Gordoi2's Case was decided, after referring to
that case as denying the jurisdiction of this court "oh account
of the power of the Executive Department over its judgment
by the 14th section of the act of 1863," said "that section was
repealed by the first section of the act of March 17th, 1866."
So, too, in United States v. O' Grady, 22 Wall. 641, Mr. Justice
Clifford, who also concurred in the judgment in Gordons Case,
said, for the court: "The Supreme Court declined to take
jurisdiction of such appeals chiefly for the reason that the act
practically subjected the judgments of the Supreme Court
rendered in such cases to the re-examination and revision of
the Secretary of the Treasury ;" but, he added, "subsequently
Congress repealed the provision conferring that authority upon
the Secretary of the Treasury, and since that time no doubt
has been entertained that it is proper that the Supreme Court
should exercise jurisdiction of appeals in such cases." This
case was decided at October Term, 1874, and afterwards, at
October Term, 1879, in langford v. United States, 101 U. S.
341, 344, 345, Mr. Justice Miller, who dissented from the judgment in Gordon's Case, after referring to that case and the
grounds of its decision, said: "An act of Congress removing
this objectionable feature having passed the year after that
decision, this appellate power of this court has been exercised
ever since." It is manifest, therefore, not only that the jurisdiction was originally denied solely on the ground of the
objectionable 14th section, but that, with this section repealed,
nothing has ever been supposed until now to stand in the way
of our taking cognizance of such cases.
Reference is now made in argument to ยง 236 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides that all claims and demands against

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States shall be settled and adjusted in the Department of the Treasury, and it is claimed that this is the equivalent of the objectionable 14th section as a bar to our jurisdiction.
This section of the Revised Statutes is not new law. It was
first enacted as ยง 2 of the act of March 3, 1'817, c. 45, 3 Stat.
366, and it has been in force ever since. It evidently relates
to an entirely different class of duties from that to which the
payment of the judgments of the Court of Claims belongs.
As to such judgments, the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury is to pay them out of "any general appropriation made
by law for the payment and satisfaction of private claims, on
presentation" to' him "of a copy of said judgment, certified"
according to law. Rev. Stat. ยง 1089. Of course this applies
as well to special appropriations made for the satisfaction of
the particular judgment. Under this statute the Secretary
.has no power whatever to go behind the judgment in his
exannation.
Reference is also made to an act of March 3, 1875, c. 149,
18 Stat. 481, which provides for "deducting any debt due the
United States from any judgment recovered against the United
States by such debtor;" but this gives the accounting officers
of the government no authority to reexamine the judgment.
It only provides a way of payment and satisfaction if the
creditor shall, at the time of the presentation of his judgment,
be a debtor of the United States for anything except what is
included in the judgment, which is conclusive as to everything
it embraces.
It is unnecessary to pursue this branch of the case further.
We are entirely satisfied that, as the law now stands, appeals
do lie to this court from the judgments of the Court of Claims
in the exercise of its general jurisdiction.
As to the second ground of the motion, it is sufficient to
say, that it is expressly provided, in the act making the appropriation referred to, "that none of the judgments herein provided for shall be paid before the right of appeal shall have
expired." 24. Stat. 282. As this appeal was taken in time,
the appropriation is not applicable to the payment of the judgment, at least until the case has been disposed of here.
'4e motion to dismiss is denied.

