PENDLETON v. BENNER LINE.
343.

Syllabus.

All the objections urged against the validity of the
statute axe unsound.
Court of Idaho is

The judgment of the Supreme

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTuR

and MR.

JUSTICE

Mc-

REYNom s dissent.

PENDLETON v. BENNER LINE.
CERTIORAwI

TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPPALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 178. Argued March 11, 12, 1918.-Decided March 25, 1918.,

Liability over is the reason for a bailee's right to recover the full value
of the goods,-a reason which, whatever its inadequacy in history
or theory as applied to torts, applies with real force to contract relations like those in this case.
A transportation company, holding itself out as a common carrier by
sea, received consignments of goods, fixed and collected the freight,
loaded the goods on a vessel which it chartered for their carriage,
and issued bills of lading to the shippers signed by the master or
agents of the vessel. The vessel proved unseaworthy and the cargo
was lost. Held, that the company was liable over to the owners of
the cargo and by subrogation to the insurers, and could recover its
full value from the vessel owners under their express warranty of
seaworthiness, in the charter party, even if technically the possession of the cargo was with the vessel owners.
The Act of June 26,1884, c. 121, 23 Stat. 57, does not limit the liability
of a ship owner upon his personal warranty of seaworthiness.
A charter party, containing a warranty of seaworthiness, purported
to be entered into by a firm as agents of the vessel, but was signed
in the firm name by one of its members who was part owner. Held,
that the warranty was his personal contract.
An owner is liable on his express warranty of seaworthiness whether to
blame for the breach or not.
217 Fed. Rep. 497, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Tmi case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harvey D. Goulder and Mr. Avery F. Cushman, with
whom Mr. E. Henry Lacombe was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. D. Roger Englar for respondent.
MR. JusTicE HoLamEs delivered the'opinion of the

court.
This is a libel brought by the Benner Line against the
Pendleton brothers upon a charter party purporting to
be made between "Pendleton Bros., agents of the schooner
'Edith Olcott"' and the libellant, and signed "Pendleton Brothers." The ground of the suit is that the vessel
was unseaworthy at the beginning of the voyage and that
by reason thereof she sank and her entire cargo was lost.
Both Courts below held that the unseaworthiness was
proved, and on the evidence that question may be laid
on one side. As one of the Pendleton brothers was not
interested in the vessel he was dismissed from the suit
without objection. The other, the petitioner, who signed
the firm name, being a part owner, was held by the District Court to be bound by the warranty of seaworthiness
contained in the contract, but entitled to the statutory
limitation of liability. Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, ยง 18,
23 Stat. 57. 210 Fed. Rep. 67. The Circuit Court of
Appeals held that the statute did not cover the case.
217 Fed. Rep. 497. 133 C. C. A. 349. A decree was entered against the petitioner for the total loss. Both
Courts agreed that the Benner Line although owning
none of the cargo was entitled to sue for the loss of it and
this proposition and the matter of the applicability of
the Act of 1884 are the two questions argued here.
The ground on which the right of the Benner Line to

PENDLETON v. BENNER LINE.
353.

Opinion of the Court.

recover the value of the cargo is denied is that the anomalous doctrine by which a bailee can recover the value of
goods that he does not own (The Beaconmfied, 158 U. S.
503, 507), stands on the bailment, and that here there was
no bailment to the Benner Line. The charter party provides that bills of lading be signed without prejudice to
the charter. The bills of lading were signed by the master
or agents of the vessel (the Benner Line), and, it is contended, bound only the vessel. The charter was not a
demise of the ship, and it may be assumed, as the bill of
lading seems to assume, that the technical possession of
the goods was in the ship owners, since they remained in
possession of the ship. The Benner Line has not paid or
been called upon to pay anything to the owners of the
cargo, but brings this suit at the request of the underwriters on the same, who have paid for the loss.
But as was observed by the Courts below, the Benner
Line held itself out to the public as a common carrier,
solicited and received the merchandise that it offered to
transport, by acceptance of such merchandise contracted
to be answerable for the transportation, chartered the
vessels to carry what it received, employed the stevedores
who put it aboard, fixed and received the freight and
signed or had the bills of lading signed in its office. It
determined the vessel on which the cargo should go as
against the owners of it or of the ship. The cargo went
in the space it had hired. We agree with the lower Courts
that the Benner Line did not disappear from its contract
to carry the goods when the bills of lading were signed and
that it would have been answerable to the owners, or to
the insurance companies when they became subrogated
to the owners' rights, if they had elected to sue it. The
owners of the vessel had warranted the seaworthiness
of the ship to the charterer, of course in contemplation
that a cargo would be shipped as to which they would be
liable in some form. Wherever in theory of law the tech-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

nical possession may have been, we do not perceive why
the charterer should be denied full damages upon the express contract when its liability over also was determined
by contract exactly as was expected. The ground upon
which bailees have been allowed to recover the full value
of goods from wrongdoers has been stated for centuries
to be their liability over. Y. B. 9 Ed. IV, 34, pl. 9, is an
example of what has been repeated from that day to
this. See Brewster v. Warner, 136 Massachusetts 57, 59.
Whatever may be the inadequacy, in history or theory,
of the reason as applied to torts, it applies with real force
to contract relations like those in this case. The whole
question is hardly more than technical as there is no
doubt that this suit really represents the owners' interests
since it is brought at the request of the insurers who have
paid the loss.
On the proposition that the petitioner is entitled to
limit his liability under the Act of 1884 it is urged that
the act is an absolute limit, irrespective of privity or
knowledge, in regard to contracts as well as torts, and
that this contract, if it bound the petitioner at all, did
so only as an indirect result of its execution. The last
point hardly is intelligible. The petitioner signed the
charter with the name Pendleton Brothers, which included himself, and apart from the fact that although described as agents the Pendleton brothers purport to be
contracting parties, if we look only to the principals the
petitioner was one of them as part owner of the vessel.
The contract was between human beings and the petitioner by his own act knowingly made himself a party to
an express undertaking for the seaworthiness of the ship.
That the statute does not limit liability for the personal
acts of the owners done with knowledge is established by
Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96. It was said in that
case, p. 106, that ยง 18 leaves the owner "liable for his own
fault, neglect and contracts." The principle was held to

NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO. v. DODGE.
353.

Syllabus.

apply to contracts less personal than this in Great Lakes
Towing Co. v. Mill TransportationCo., 155 Fed. Rep. 11,
and in The Loyal, 204 Fed. Rep. 930. We are not disposed to disturb the very strong and deliberate intimations of Richardson v. Harmon in their application to
the present case. It is said that the owners did their best
to make the vessel seaworthy and that if it was not so the
failure was wholly without the privity or knowledge of
the petitioner. But that is not the material question in
the case of a warranty. Unless the petitioner can be
discharged from his contract altogether he must answer
for the breach whether he was to blame for it or not.
Decree affirmed.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
DODGE.
ERROR TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 378. Argued January 21, 1918.-Decided April 1, 1918.
A law of a State, governing a life insurance contract made locally between a resident citizen and a locally licensed foreign corporation,
and prescribing how the net value of the policy shall be applied to
avoid forfeiture if the premium be not paid, cannot be extended so as
to prevent the policyholder, while present in such State; and the
company from making and carrying out a subsequent, independent
agreement in the company's home State, pursuant to its laws,
whereby the policy is pledged as security for a loan and afterwards
canceled in satisfaction of the indebtedness.
Such attempt to engraft the law of the policy upon the subsequent contract, so that the insurance shall remain enforcible in the courts
of the State where the policy was issued without regard to its termination in satisfaction of the loan, is an invasion of the citizen's
liberty of contract under the Fourteenth Amendment, and cannot
be sustained through the license to the foreign corporation.

