OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

judgment, as well as concerning the means otherwise
exiting in the State of West Virginia, if any, which, by
the exercise of the equitable powers in the discharge of
the duty to enforce payment, may be available for that
purpose.
And it is so ordered.

WAITE ET AL., AS GENERAL APPRAISERS, DESIGNATED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY AS THE BOARD OF TEA APPEALS, v. MACY
ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS COPARTNERS
UNDER THE NAME OF CARTER, MACY &
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 255. Argued March 28,1918.-Decided April 22, 1918.
A transgression of its statutory power by an administrative board is
subject to judicial restraint, although guised as a discretionary decision within its jurisdiction.
In testing the right of injunction against administrative officers, the
presumption that they will follow the law, though set up" in their
answer, cannot be indulged where an intention to obey an illegal
regulation of their superior is not directly disclaimed by them and
is admitted by their counsel.
The only grounds recognized by the Act of March 2, 1897, c. 358, 29
Stat. 604, as amended, c. 170, 35 Stat. 163, for excluding tea from
import, are inferiority to the standard in purity, quality and fitness
for consumption; and, where the tea offered is otherwise superior to
the standard in value and purity, the fact that it contains a minute
and innocuous quantity of coloring matter not found in the sample
will not justify shutting it out, notwithstanding a regulation of the
Secretary of the Treasury, purporting to be based on the stathte,
declares the presence of any coloring matter an absolute ground for
exclusion.

WAITE v. MACY.
Opinion of the Court.

606.

In the absence of other adequate remedy for the importer, the Tea
Board constituted under the Act of 1897, supra, may be enjoined
from excluding tea upon a test prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury but not sanctioned by the statute.
224 Fed. Rep. 359, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for appellants.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate, Jr., for appellees.
Mm_.

JUsTIcE HoLEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill brought by importers of tea to prevent the
appellants, a board of general appraisers known as the
Tea Board, from applying to tea imported by the plaintiffs tests which, it is alleged, are illegal and if applied
will lead to the exclusion of the tea. The bill was dismissed by the District Court, 215 Fed. Rep. 456, but the
decree was reversed and an injunction ordered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 224 Fed. Rep. 359. 140 C. C.
A. 45.
The case is within a narrow compass. The Act of
March 2, 1897, c. 358, 29 Stat. 604, amended by the Act
of May 16, 1908, c. 170, 35 Stat. 163, provides for the
establishment of standards "of purity, quality, and fitness
for consumption, of all kinds of tea imported," &c., §3, and
makes it "unlawful

. . . to import any merchandise

as tea which is inferior in purity, quality, and fitness
for consumption to the standards" referred to. § 1. When
the tea is entered at the custom house it is compared with
the standards by an examiner and if found equal to them
in the above particulars it may be released by the custom
house; if found inferior it is to be retained. § 5. But
either side may protest and have the matter referred to
a board of three general appraisers such as the appellants are. If upon a final refxamination by the board "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

24 U. S.

tea shall be found inferior in purity, quality, and fitness for
consumption to the said standards" the tea must be removed from the country within six months. §6. The tea
is to be tested in the particulars mentioned "according to
the usages and customs of the tea trade, including the testing of an infusion of the same in boiling water, and, if necessary, chemical analysis." §7. The Secretary of the
Treasury is given power to enforce the provisions of the
act by appropriate regulations. § 10. A regulation has
adopted a test for the discovery of artificial coloring matter which in brief consists in rubbing tea leaves reduced
to dust upon semi-glazed paper with a spatula and examining the smear with a lens. If particles of coloring matter
are found a test sheet is submitted to chemical analysis
for identification of the coloring matter and as soon as it is
identified the tea is to be rejected. It was said below to
be undisputed that if the tea in question contains any coloring matter, whether present through design or accident,
the appellants pursuing the regulation will keep it out.
The standard samples of this tea contain no coloring
matter but contain a far greater amount of other foreign
substances than does this. This tea is worth nearly four
times as much a pound as the standard and the sole cause
for rejecting it is the presence of from nine to nineteen
parts of Prussian blue in a million of elements otherwise
not objected to. It is not contended that the Prussian
blue is deleterious. These facts are found by both Courts
below. Upon them the plaintiffs (the appellees) say that
the Government is attempting to apply criteria not allowed
by the law. The Government says that the bill is an
attempt to control a board in the performance of its
statutory duty and to substitute the judgment of a court
for that of the board.
No doubt it is true that this Court cannot displace the
judgment of the board in any matter within its jurisdiction, but it is equally true that the board cannot en-

WAITE v. MACY.
606.

Opinion of the Court.

large the powers given to it by statute and cover a usurpation by calling it a decision on purity, quality or fitness
for consumption. Morril v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466.
United States v. United Verde Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207,
215. United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14, 21. Again, it
is true that Courts will not issue injunctions against
administrative officers on the mere apprehension that they
will not do their duty or will not follow the law. First
National Bank of Albuquerque v. Albright, 208 U. S. 548.
But in this case the superior of the appellants had promulgated a rule for them to follow which is alleged to be
beyond the power of the Secretary to make. It is said
that the appellants are independent of the Secretary and
that it is to be presumed that they will decide according
to law, as they say in their answer. But if the avoidance
of a direct statement as to their intent did not of itself
warrant a presumption that they would obey orders, the
admissions of their counsel were enough to make their intent to do so plain.
We are brought then to the merits, and we are of opinion
that the rule cannot be sustained, notwithstanding that
since a former board refused to follow it as it then stood,
there has been added clauses intended to save it as a
chemical analysis. The regulation makes the presence of
any coloring matter an absolute ground for exclusion.
But the only grounds recognized by the statute are inferiority to the standard in purity, quality and fitness for
consumption, words repeated over and over again in the
act. It cannot be made a rule of law that any tea that has
an infinitesimal amount of innocuous coloring matter is
inferior in those respects to a standard that has a much
greater amount of other impurities and is worth only a
quarter as much. All extraneous substances are impurities, and the presence of any may be detected in any
way found efficient. But one such substance cannot be
picked out and accorded supremacy in evil by an absolute

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

rule irrespective of any harm that it may do. We go one
step further and add that in view of the facts as to the
standard and this tea, the presence of the Prussian blue
affords no adequate ground for keeping the tea out.
The Secretary and the board must keep within the
statute, Merritt v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694, which goes to
their jurisdiction, see Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538, 544, and we see
no reason why the restriction should not be enforced by
injunction, as it was, for instance, in Bacon v. Rutland
R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 134. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 620. Sante Fe Paciflw R. R. Co. v. Lane, 244
U. S. 492. We are satisfied that no other remedy, if there
is any other, will secure the plaintiffs' rights.
Decree affrmed.
SAALFIELD, ADMINISTRATOR OF BROWN, SURVIVING CLAIMANT, ETC., v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 101.

Argued March 27, 1918.-Decided April 22, 1918.

Where a contract for the manufacture of guns for the United States
provided for a preliminary test subject to the decision of the Chief of
Ordnance and the Secretary of War, those officials were to decide,
not arbitrarily, but candidly and reasonably, whether the test had
been satisfied.
The findings of fact justify the conclusion that the test gun did not
meet the contract requirements; the report of the Chief of Ordnance
viewed as a whole in the light of the circumstances is consistent
with this conclusion; there is no ground for the charge that the Chief
of Ordnance and the Secretary of War, in annulling the contract,
acted in bad faith or under gross mistake, or for holding that the
Government by delays injurious to the contractors waived the right

to annul.
51 Ct. ClIms. 22, affirmed.

