OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

untenable, save in the instance of the Cheney Brothers
Company. The tax on that company, as before indicated,
was a tax on interstate business and therefore void under
the commerce clause.
Judgment reversed as to Cheney Brothers Company and
affirmed as to the other plaintiffs in error.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
IN EQUITY.

No. 4, Original. Argued October 9, 1917.-Decided March 4, 1918.
When two States of the Union are separated by a navigable stream,
their boundary being described as "a line drawn along the middle
of the river," or as "the middle of the main channel of the river,"
the boundary must be fixed (by the rule of the "thalweg") at the
middle of the main navigable channel, so that each State may enjoy
an equal right of navigation. Iowa v. Iluinois, 147 U. S.1.
Following this principle, the court holds that the true boundary line
between the States of Arkansas and Tennessee is the middle of the
main channel of navigation of the Mississippi, as it existed at the
Treaty of Peace concluded between the United States and Great
Britain in 1783, subject to such changes as have occurred since that
time through natural and gradual processes.
Certain decisions of the Arkansas and Tennessee courts and acts of the
Tennessee legislature, referred to in the opinion, fall short of showing
that the States, by practical location and long acquiescence, established the boundary, at the place in dispute, as a line equidistant
from the well-defined permanent banks of the river. It is therefore
unnecessary to decide whether the supposed agreement between
them would be valid without consent of Congress, in view of the
third clause of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution.
Where running streams are the boundaries between States, the same
rule applies as between private proprietors, namely, that when the
bed and channel are changed by the natural and gradual processes

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Syllabus.

known as erosion and accretion, the boundary follows the varying
course of the stream; while if the stream from any cause, natural or
artificial, suddenly leaves its old bed and forms a new one, by the
process known as an avulsion, the resulting change of channel works
no change of boundary, which remains in the middle of the old channel, although no water may be flowing in it, and irrespective of subsequent changes in the new channel.
This rule applies to a navigable stream between States; the boundary
is not changed by an avulsion but remains as it was before, the
center line of the old main channel of navigation.
The common-law doctrine permitting the private owner of land which
has been submerged in the sea to regain it, upon identification after a
subsequent reliction, is but an exception to the general rule giving
to the sovereign land uncovered by sudden recession of the sea; it
has no proper bearing upon the rule stated with reference to boundary streams; and affords no basis for restoring such a boundary,
after an avulson, to its pristine location and thus eliminating the
shifting effects of erosions and accretions which occurred before the
avulsion took place.
After an avulsion, so long as the old channel remains a running stream,
the boundary marked by it is still subject to be changed by erosion
and accietion; but when the water becomes stagnant the effect of
these processes is at an end; the boundary then becomes fixed at the
middle of the channel, as above defined, and the gradual filling up
of the bed that ensues is not to be treated as an accretion to the
shores but as an ultimate effect of the avulsion.
How the land that emerges on either side of a navigable interstate
boundary stream shall be disposed of as between public and private
ownership is a matter to be determined according to the law of each
State, under the familiar doctrine that it is for the States to establish
for themselves such rules of property as they deem expedient with respect to the navigable waters within their borders and the riparian
lands adjacent to them, But these dispositions are in each case limited by the interstate boundary, and cannot be permitted to press
back the boundary line from where otherwise it should be located.
Arkansas is not affected by judicial determinations involving the boundary in cases to which she was not a party.
The court will appoint a commission to run, locate and designate the
boundary line between the two States at the place in question, in
accordance with the principles herein stated.
The nature and extent of the erosions and accretions that occurred
in the old channel prior to the avulsion here involved, and the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

tion whether it is practicable now to locate accurately the line of
the river as it then ran, will be refefred to said commission, subject
to a review of its decision by this court if need be.

THis is an original suit in equity brought by the State

of Arkansas against the State of Tennessee for the purpose
of determining the location of the boundary line between
those States along that portion of the bed of the Mississippi River that was left dry as the result of an avulsion
which occurred March 7, 1876, when a new channel was
formed known as the "Centennial Cut-off."
The cause, having been put at issue by the filing of answer and replication, was brought on to hearing upon
stipulated facts, pursuant to an intimation made by this
court in Cissnav. Tennessee, 242 U. S.195, 198.
The facts are as follows: By the Treaty of 1763 between
England, France, and Spain, Art. VII (3 Jenkinson's
Treaties, 177, 182), the boundary line between the British and French possessions at this place was established
as "a line drawn along the middle of the River Mississippi," with consequent recognition of the dominion of
France over the territory now comprising the State of
Arkansas, and the dominion of Great Britain over that
now comprising the State of Tennessee. By the Treaty
of Peace concluded between the United States and Great
Britain, September 3, 1783, 8 Stat. 80, the territory comprising Tennessee passed to the United States, its westerly boundary being described (Art. I) as "a line to be
drawn along the middle of the said River Mississippi."
It formed a part of the State of North Carolina. In the
year 1790 North Carolina ceded it to the United States
(Act of April 2, 1790, c. 6, 1 Stat. 106). In a report made
in the following year by Thomas Jefferson, then Secretary of State, and submitted to Congress by President
Washington, the bounds of the ceded territory -were described, the western boundary being "the middle of the

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
.158.

Statement of the Case.

river Mississippi." I American State Papers, Public
Lands, p. 17. And by Act of June 1, 1796, c. 47, 1 Stat.
491, the whole of the territory thus ceded was made a
State. By the Louisiana Purchase, under the Treaty of
April 30, 1803, 8 Stat. 200, the territory comprising Arkansas was acquired by the United States from France.
It was admitted into the Union as a State by Act of June
15, 1836, c. 100, 5 Stat. 50, its easterly boundary being
described as "the middle of the main channel of the said
river."
According to the stipulated facts, the earliest evidence
concerning the location of the river at the place in question
relates to the year 1823, and is set forth upon a map made
recently by Major Humphreys, purporting to show the
conditions as they existed at that time. The river flowed
southward past Dean's Island on the Arkansas side, made
a bend to the westward at or about the southernmost
part of this island, and then swept northerly and westerly
around Island No. 37 (Tennessee), a lesser channel known
as McKenzie Chute passing between that island and the
main Tennessee shore; the main and lesser channels met
at the southwestern extremity of Island No. 37, and the
river flowed thence southwesterly past Point Able, Tennessee, opposite which it turned again easterly and then
northerly, forming what is known as the Devil's Elbow,
and flowed thence easterly or northeasterly around Brandywine Point or Island (Arkansas), until it came within a
distance of about two miles from the place where it
started its northerly turn opposite Dean's Island; and at
this point it turned again to the southward. It is agreed
that in 1823 the river ran substantially as indicated upon
the Humphreys map, and that between that year and
the year 1876 the width of the channel, by erosion and
caving in of the Tennessee bank south, southwest, and
west of Dean's Island, along the mainland and Island
No. 37, had increased from its former width of about a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

246 U. S.

mile or less to a width of 1j<4 or 1Y2 miles, with consequent

narrowing of the neck of land opposite Dean's Island.
It is a matter in controversy between the parties whether
during the same period there were accretions to Dean's
Island and Plum Island, in the State of Arkansas, and to
Island No. 37 and the shore below Point Able, on the Tennessee side. A steamboat reconnaissance of the river
was made by Colonel Suter under the direction of the
War Department in 1874, and a map of the place in question was prepared under his direction and is in evidence.
There being no proof of material changes in the river between 1874 and 1876, this map, while not shown to be
entirely accurate, is agreed to represent the general situation as it existed in the latter year.
On March 7, 1876, the river suddenly and with great
violence, within about thirty hours, made for itself a new
channel directly across the neck opposite the apex of
Dean's Island, so that the old channel around the bend
of the elbow (a distance of fifteen to twenty miles) was
abandoned by the current, and although it remained for
a few years covered with dead water it was no longer
navigable except in times of high water for small boats,
and this continued only for a short time, since the old
bed immediately began to fill with sand, sediment, and
alluvial deposits. In the course of time it became dry
land suitable for cultivation and to a considerable extent
covered with timber. The new channel is called, from
the year in which it originated, the "Centennial Cut-off,"
and the land that it separated from the Tennessee mainland goes by the name of "Centennial Island."
The cut-off and the territory affected by it are the same
that are mentioned and dealt with in the cases of Stockley
v. Cissna, 119 Fed. Rep. 812; State v. Muncie Pulp Co.,
119 Tennessee, 47, and Stockley v. Cissna, 119 Tennessee,
135. The State of Tennessee, in her answer, pleads and
relies upon the first and second of these cases as judicial

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

. 163

Statement of the Case.

determinations and evidence of the boundary line between the States at the place in 4luestion. Their materiality and effect are matters to be determined.
Prior to 1876, notably around "Island 37" and "Devil's Elbow," the bank on one side of the river was high and
subject to erosion, the effect of the water against it; while
on the opposite side the bank was a flat or sloping shore,
so that the width of the river was materially affected by
the rise and fall of the water, being considerably wider
at normal than at low-water stage.
The following questions are submitted for the determination of this court:
(1) Arkansas contends that the true boundary line
between the States (aside from the question of the avulsion of 1876) is the middle of the river at low water, that
is, the middle of the channel of navigation; whereas Tennessee contends that the true boundary is a line equidistant from the well-defined banks at a normal stage of the
river.
(2) Arkansas contends that by the avulsion of 1876 the
boundary line between the States was unaffected, and remained in the middle of the river bed which was by the
avulsion abandoned, whether the first or the second definition of the middle of the river be adopted; whereas Tennessee contends that the line was affected by the avulsion
to the extent indicated by the opinion of the Supreme
Court of that State in State v. Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tennessee, 47; that is, that the effect of the avulsion was to
press back the line between the two States to the middle
of the old channel as it ran previous to the erosions upon
the Tennessee banks that occurred between 1823 and
1876.
(3) Tennessee contends that, irrespective of the question of accretions and erosions, it is impossible now to locate accurately the line of the river as it ran in 1876 just
prior to the avulsion, and that therefore the line of 1823

, OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Complainant.

246 U. S.

must prevail as the boundary line between the States,
where it has been or can be located accurately and definitely; whereas Arkansas insists that there is no real difficulty in locating the middle of the river of 1876.
Upon the determination of these points, the court is to
appoint a commission to run, locate, and designate the line.
Mr. CaruthersEwing, with whom Mr. John D. Arbuckle,
Attorney General of the State of Arkansas, was on the
briefs, for complainant:
The terms "middle of Mississippi River," "middle of
the stream of the Mississippi River," "center of the middle
thread of the main channel of the Mississippi River,"
mean the same thing and designate the middle of the river
at low water mark-the middle of the channel of navigation. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; Handley's Lessee v.
Anthony, 5 Wheat. 375; Lamb v. Rickets, 11 Ohio St. 311;
Franzini v. Layland, 120 Wisconsin, 72, and many other
cases in this and other courts. This court knows that the
Mississippi River is sinuous, and that, on one side, in many
places, will be found a sloping bank contiguous to which
the water is very shallow, and on the opposite side a high
bank with the water deep and navigable. If the contention of Tennessee be maintained, then at the point in
controversy the navigable or steamboat channel of the
river was wholly within the territorial limits of Tennessee
or Arkansas dependent upon the nature of the bank at
the particular point. This question is important because
at low water stage the river would be about one-half mile
wide and the line would therefore be about one-quarter
of a mile from the high bank. At a normal stage of water
the river at the locus in quo might be about a mile and a
half wide. The line would therefore be about three-fourths
of a mile from the high or bluff bank. The difference
amounts to a strip of land many miles in length and a
quarter of a mile wide, i. e., about 4,000 acres.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE..
158.

Argument for Complainant.

In deciding otherwise 'and repudiating the rule announced in Iowa v. Illinois, supra, the Tennessee court
(State v. Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tennessee, 47) misconceived earlier decisions in this court and ignored later ones.
It is recognized by all authorities that boundary lines
are unaffected by an avulsion. The river's sudden abandonment of its bed left the line between the two States
exactly as it existed at the time of this sudden and visible
abandonment. Missouri v. Kansas, 213 U. S. 68; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 33; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 624; Washington v. Oregon, 214 U. S.
205; Whiteside v. Norton, 205 Fed.' Rep. 5; and other cases.
Before the avulsion, the boundary line between the
States followed the gradual and imperceptible shiftings
of the river. What each State lost or gained by gradual
and imperceptible shiftings was a permanent loss or gain
except and unless these changes were undone as they
were made, to wit, gradually and imperceptibly. Gradual
and imperceptible changes in property rights and in
boundary lines are unaffected by the fact that as the result of an avulsion land which had been lost by erosion is
uncovered. The doctrine of reliction only applies when
land- is uncovered gradually and imperceptibly; it never
applies when the recession of the waters from the land is
sudden and visible. Jones v. Johnson, 18 How. 150, 156;
St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226; Sapp v. Frazier, 51 La.
Ann. 1718; Collins v. State, 3 Tex. App. 323; Bouvier v.
Stricklett, 40 Nebraska, 793; Noyes v. Collins, 92 Iowa, 566;
Wi2son v. Watson, 141 'Kentucky, 324; and many other
authorities. The case of "Mulryv. Norton, 100 N. Y. 424,
is about the only support to be found for the proposition
that the doctrine of reliction can be invoked when the
land is uncovered by an avulsion. The statement in the
court's opinion to this effect is mere dictum. See Matter
of City of Buffalo, 206 N. Y. 319. Land submerged by.
the sudden and violent action of the sea, as in Mulry v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant.

246 U. S.

Norton, is land that is lost by an avulsion and the owner
still has title thereto. He simply cannot use the land because it is covered with water. Land thus covered by
water belongs to the owner wholly on the principle that
an avulsion does not affect property rights and titles.
To hold that the doctrine of reliction could be applied
to land uncovered as the result of an avulsion would be
to hold that boundary lines and property rights are
affected by an avulsion, whereas the law, is well settled to
the contrary.
Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh, with whom Mr. Frank M. Thor,,"son, Attorney General of the State of Tennessee, was ca
the brief, for defendant:
The boundary between Arkansas and Tennessee is a
line drawn along the middle of the Mississippi River at a
point equidistant between its principal and well-defined
banks, at a normal stage of water. It was so fixed by
treaty and statute. [Citing the treaties and statutes considered in the early part of the statement, and Shannon's
Code of Tennessee, §80; Code of 1858, §69.]
As long as water flows over the bed of a navigable
stream, considerations of international policy may well
support the rule that the boundary in such stream is
along the "thalweg" or fairway, and this because the
preservation of equality in the navigation of the river is
of extreme importance to the nations bounded by such
stream. The river is owned jointly by the two adjoining nations, and the purpose of the rule is to secure to
both equal rights therein, the superlative one being the
right of navigation; but when the water leaves its bed
and establishes for itself a new channel, we respectfully
urge that principles of equity, equality and right constrain the application of a new rule, which will give
to each of the adjoining States an equal moiety in the
land over which the water ran, and which is, by the aban-

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Argument for Defendant.

donment of the stream, rendered fit for cultivation and
use. Iowa v. Illinois,147 U. S. 1; Louisianav. Mississippi,
202 U. S. 1, 49; Chitty's Vattel, 4th Amer. ed., p. 150; 1
Moore International Law Digest, § 156; 8Ops. Atty. Gen.
177, 178; Almeda, Derecho Publico, Tom. 1, p. 199;
Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359; Sandars' Justinian, 1st
Amer. ed., pp. 168, 169; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S.
23, 36; Buttenuth v. St. Louis Bridge Co., 123 Illinois, 535;
Nugent v. Mallory, 145 Kentucky, 824.
It is next insisted by Tennessee that the line should run
at a point equidistant between well-defined banks, at a
normal stage of water, because this has been the longestablished boundary, acquiesced in by both Arkansas
and Tennessee and their predecessors in sovereignty for
many years. Whatever may have been the proper construction of the Treaties of 1763 and 1783, it is clear that
on the admission of Tennessee into the Union the western
boundary of the United States was construed to be the
"middle of the channel or bed" of the Mississippi River.
It was so fixed by the treaty between the United States
and Spain in 1795. Congress had no power to include
within the territory of Arkansas, through the enabling
act admitting it to the Union, territory within the boundaries of Tennessee, because Tennessee was the older State.
Constitution, Art. IV, § 3; Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202
U. S. 40; Washington v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127, 134. Arkansas has interpreted the line to be at a point equidistant
from the well-defined and permanent banks of the Mississippi River. [Citing cases mentioned in the opinion
and Hearne v. State, 121 Arkansas, 460.] Tennessee has
recognized the same boundary, and acquiesced therein.
Moss v. Gibbs, 10 Heisk. 283; Foppiano v. Snead, 113
Tennessee, 167; State v. Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tennessee,
47, 73. Where a State has for many years exercised undisturbed jurisdiction over a particular territory, a prescriptive right arises, which is equally binding under

.168

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant.

246 U. S.

principles of justice on States as well as individuals.
[Citing the cases on this subject mentioned in the opinion,
and Missouri v. Kansas, 213 U. S. 78, 85.]
The line if fixed at the flum aquce should be determined
with reference to the normal stage of water. State v.
Burton, 106 Louisiana, 732; Hopkins Academy v. Dickson,
9 Cush. 544, 552; Warren v. Inhabitants of Thomaston, 75
Maine, 329, 332; Cessill v. State, 40 Arkansas, 501; State
v. Muncie Pulp Co., supra.
The effect of avulsion is to leave the boundary in the
abandoned bed of a stream, and it does not carry the
boundary to the new channel. Missouri v. Nebraska, 196
U. S. 33; State v. Muncie Pulp Co., supra; Stockley v.
Cissna, 119 Tennessee, 135.
The doctrine of submergence and reappearance of land
applies where lands have been submerged and the bed
becomes dry, and old boundaries can be located or distinguished. State v. Muncie Pulp Co., supra; Sir Matthew
Hale's De Jure Ataris,.reprinted in Hargrave's Law Tracts,
36, 37, and notes to In re Jennings, 6 Cow. 518, 536, and
Mather v. Chapman, 16 Am. Rep. 54; 7 Comyns' Dig.,
tit. Prerogative, D. 61; 5 Bacon's Abr., tit. Prerogative,
p. 495; Mulry v. Norton, 100 N. Y. 424; Morris v. Brook,
repr. Am. Reps. 206; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226;
Stockley v. Cissna, 119 Fed. Rep. 812; Stockley v. Cissna,
119 Tennessee, 135, 171; Hughes v. Heirs of Birney, 107
Louisiana, 664; Chicago v. Lord, 169 Illinois, 392; Widicombe v. Rosemiller, 118 Fed. Rep. 295; Randolph v.
Hinck, 277 Illinois, 11.
In boundary disputes between nations the same rules
will be applied as apply between individuals. Trustees
v. Hopkins, 8 Porter, 9; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359;
8 Ops. Atty. Gen. 175.
Tennessee contends that after the old channel ran dry,
the owners of the banks and the bed should be restored to
their own, according to the original boundaries fixed be-

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.

158.

Opinion of the Court.

fore the river changed its course or moved laterally in its
Lcd, such lands being still susceptible of definite location.
M.R. JusTICE PITNEY, after stating the case as above,

dcl:vered the opinion of the court.
" Concerning the proper location of an interstate boundary line with reference to the shores and channel of a navigable river separating one State of the Union from another, much has been written. The subject was brought
under the consideration of this court in Iowa v. Illinois,
147 U. S. 1. In that case, Illinois contended that the
boundary followed the middle of the channel of commerce, that is, the channel commonly used by steamboats
and other craft navigating the river; while on the part of
Iowa it was insisted that the line ran in the middle of the
main body of the river, taking the middle line between
its banks or shores, irrespective of where the channel of
commerce might be, and that the measurements must be
taken at ordinary stage of water. The contention of each
State was supported by a decision of its court of last resort: Dunlieth & Dubuque Bridge Co. v. County of Dubuque,
55 Iowa, 558, 565; Buttenuth v. St. Louis Bridge Co., 123
Illinois, 535, 548. This court recognized these cases as
presenting in the clearest "terms the different views as to
the line of jurisdiction between neighboring States separated by a navigable stream, and thereupon proceeded
to analyze their reasoning and doctrine. From a review
of the authorities upon international law, it was declared
that when a navigable river constituted the boundary between two independent States the interest of each State
in the navigation, and the preservation by each of its
equal right in such navigation, required that the middle
of the channel should mark the boundary up to which
each State on its side should exercise jurisdiction; that
hence, in international law, and by the usage of European

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

nations, the term "middle of the stream," as applied to
a navigable river, meant the middle of the channel of such
stream, and that in this sense the terms were used in the
treaty between Great Britain, France, and Spain, concluded at Paris in 1763, so that by the language "a line
drawn along the middle of the River Mississippi," as
there used, the middle of the channel was indicated; that
the thalweg, or middle of the navigable channel, is to be
taken as the true boundary line between independent
States for reasons growing out of the right of navigation,
in the absence of a special convention between the States
or long use equivalent thereto; and that although the reason and necessity of the rule may not be as cogent in this
country, where neighboring States are under the same
general government, yet the same rule must be held to obtain unless changed by statute or usage of so great a
length of time as to have acquired the force of law; and
that the Illinois Enabling Act of April 18, 1818, § 2, c. 67,
3 Stat. 428, which made "the middle of the Mississippi
river" the western boundary of the State, the Missouri
Enabling Act of March 6, 1820, §2, c. 22, 3 Stat. 545,
which adopted "the middle of the main channel of the
Mississippi river" as the eastern boundary of that State,
and the Wisconsin Enabling Act of August 6, 1846, c. 89,
9 Stat. 56, which referred to "the centre of the main
channel of that river," employed these varying phrases
as signifying the same thing. Hence we reached the conclusion (p. 13) that as between the different views as to
the line of jurisdiction between neighboring Stat s, separated by a navigable stream, the controlling consideration "is that which preserves to each State equality in
the right of navigation in the river." It was accordingly
adjudged and declared that the boundary line between
the contesting States was "the middle of the main navigable channel of the Mississippi River;" and a final decree to that effect was afterwards made, 202 U. S. 59.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

The rule thus adopted, known as the rule of the "thalweg," has been treated as set at rest by that decision.
Louisianav. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1, 49; Washingt.n v.
Oregon, 211 U. S. 127, 134; 214 U. S. 205, 215. The argument submitted in behalf of the defendant State in the
case at bar, including a reference to the notable recent
decision of its Supreme Court in State v. Muncie Pulp
Co. (1907), 119 Tennessee, 47, has failed to convince us
that this rule ought now, after the lapse of twenty-five
years, to be departed from.
It is said that Arkansas has interpreted the line to be
at a point equidistant from the well-defined and permanent banks of the river, that Tennessee likewise has recognized this boundary, and that by long acquiescence on
the part of both States in this construction, and the exercise of jurisdiction by both in accordance therewith, the
question should be treated as settled. The reference is
to certain judicial decisions, and two acts of legislation.
In Cessill v. ,State (1883), 40 Arkansas, 501, which was a
prosecution for unlicensed sale of liquors upon a boat anchored off the Arkansas shore, it was held that the boundary line, as established by the original treaties and since
observed in federal legislation, state constitutions, and
judicial decisions was the "line along the river bed equidistant from the permanent and defined banks of the ascertained channel on either side." This was followed in
subsequent decisions by the same court. Wolfe v. State
(1912), 104 Arkansas, 140, 143; Kinnanne v. State (1913),
106 Arkansas, 286, 290. The first pertinent decision by
the Supreme Court of Tennessee is State v. Muncie Pulp
Co. (1907), 119 Tennessee, 47, in which a similar conclusion was reached, partly upon the ground that it had been
adopted by the courts of Arkansas. The legislative action
referred to consists of two acts of the General Assembly
of the State of Tennessee (Acts 1903, p." 1215, c. 420;
Acts 1907, p. 1723, c. 516), each of which authorized the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

appointment of a commission to confer and act with a
like commission representing the State of Arkansas to
locate the line between the States in the old and abandoned channel at the place that we now have under consideration; and the Act of 1907 further provided that if
Arkansas should fail to appoint a commission, the Attorney General of Tennessee should be authorized to institute a suit against that State in this court to establish
and locate the boundary line. These acts, far from treating the boundary as a line settled and acquiesced in, treat
it as a matter requiring to be definitely settled, with th
co6peration of representatives of the sister State if practicable, otherwise by appropriate litigation.
The Arkansas decisions had for their object the establishment of a proper rule for the administration of the
criminal laws of the State, and were entirely independent
of any action taken or proposed by the authorities of the
State of Tennessee. They had no particular reference to
that part of the river bed that was abandoned as the result of the avulsion of 1876; on the contrary, they dealt
with parts of the river where the water still flowed in its
ancient channel. The decision of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee in State v. Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tennessee, 47,
sustained the claim of the State to a part of the abandoned
river bed which, by the rule of the thalweg, would be without that State. The combined effect of these decisions
and of the legislation referred to, all of which were subsequent to the year 1876, falls far short of that long acquiescence in the practical location of a common boundary,
and possession in accordance therewith, which in some of
the cases has been treated as an aid in setting the question
at rest. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,4 How. 591, 638,
639; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479, 510, 514, 518;
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 522; Louisiana v.
Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1, 53; Maryland v. West Virginia,
217 U. S. 1, 41.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

Therefore we find it unnecessary to decide whether the
supposed agreement between the States respecting the
boundary would be valid without the consent of Congress, in, view of the third clause of § 10 of Art. 1 of the
Constitution of the United States.
The next and perhaps the most important question is
as to the effect of the sudden and violent change in the
channel of the river that occurred in the year 1876, and
which both parties properly treat as a true and typical
avulsion. It is settled beyond the possibility of dispute
that where running streams are the boundaries between
States, the same rule applies as between private proprietors, namely, that when the bed and channel are changed
by the natural and gradual processes known as erosion
and accretion, the boundary follows the varying course
of the stream; while if the stream from any cause, natural
or artificial, suddenly leaves its old bed and forms a new
one, by the process known as an avulsion, the resulting
change of channel works no change of boundary, which
remains in the middle of the old channel, although no
water may be flowing in it, and irrespective of subsequent
changes in the new channel. New Orleans v. United
States, 10 Pet. 662, 717; Jeffies v. East Omaha Land Co.,
134 U. S. 178, 189; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359, 361,
367, 370; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23, 34-36.
There is controversy with respect to the application of
the foregoing rule to the particular circumstances of this
case. It is insisted in behalf of the State of Tennessee
that since the rule of the thalweg derives its origin from
the equal rights of the respective States in the navigation
of the river, the reason for the rule and therefore the rule
itself ceases when navigation has been rendered impossible by the abandonment of a portion of the river bed as
the result of an avulsion. In support of this contention
we are referred to some expressions of Vattel, Almeda,
Moore, and other writers; but we deem them inconclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

sive, and are of the opinion, on the contrary, that the contention runs counter to the settled rule and is inconsistent
with the declarations of this court, in Nebraska v. Iowa,
143 U. S. 359, 367, that "avulsion would establish a fixed
boundary, to wit: the centre of the abandoned channel,"
or, as it is expressed on page 370, "the boundary was not
changed, and it remained as it was prior to the avulsion,
the centre line of the old channel," and in Missouri v.
Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23, 36, that the boundary line "must
be taken to be the middle of the channel of the river as it
was prior to such avulsion."
It is contended, further, that since the avulsion of 1876
caused the old river bed to dry up, what is called "the
doctrine of the submergence and reappearance of land"
must be applied, so as to establish the ancient boundary
as it existed at the time of the earliest record, in this case
the year 1823, with the effect of eliminating any shifting
of the river bed that resulted from the erosions and accretions of the half century preceding the avulsion.
This contention is rested chiefly upon a quotatioA from
Sir Matthew Hale, De Jure Mars, c. 4: "If a subject hath
land adjoining the sea, and the violence of the sea swallow
it up, but so that yet there be reasonable marks to continue the notice of it; or though the marks be defaced;
yet if by situation and extent of quantity, and bounding
upon the firm land, the same can be known, though the
sea leave this land again, or it be by art or industry regained, the subject doth not lose his propriety; and accordingly it was held by Cooke and Foster, M. 7 Jac. C.
B., though the inundation continue forty years." (1
Hargraves' Law Tracts, 15; Note to Ex parte Jennings,
6 Cow. 542.) To the same effect, 2 Roll. Abr. 168, 1. 48;
7 Comyns' Dig., tit. Prerogative, D. 61, 62; 5 Bacon's
Abr., tit. Prerogative, B. 1. A reference to the context
shows that the portion quoted is a statement of one of
several exceptions to the general rule that any increase

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Opinion of 'the Court.

of land per rdictionem, or sudden recession of the sea, belonged of common right to the King as a part of his pre-'
rogative. It amounts to no more than saying that where
the reliction did but restore that which before had been
private property and had been lost through the violence
of the sea, the private right should be restored if the land
is capable of identification. Such a case was Mulry v.
Norton, 100 N. Y. 424, the true scope of which decision
was pointed out in In re City of Buffalo, 206 N. Y. 319,
326, 327. But this doctrine has no proper bearing upon
the rule we have stated with reference to boundary
streams. Certainly it cannot be regarded as having the
effect of caring out an exception to the rule that where
the course of the stream changes through the operation
of the natural and gradual processes of erosion and accretion, the boundarj follows the stream; while if the stream
leaves its former bed and establishes a new one as the result of an avulsion, the boundary remains in the middle
of the former channel. An avulsion has this effect,
whether it results in the drying up of the old channel or
not. So long as that channel remains a running stream,
the boundary marked by it is still subject to be changed
by erosion and accretion; but when the water becomes
stagnant, the effect of these processes is at an end; the
boundary then becomes fixed in the middle of the channel
as we have defined it, and the gradual filling up of the
bed that ensues is not to be treated as an accretion to the
shores but as an ultimate effect of the avulsion. The
emergence of the land, however, may or may not follow,
and it ought not in reason to have any controlling effect
upon the location of the boundary line in the old channel.
To give to it such an effect is, we think, to misapply the
rule quoted from Sir Matthew Hale.
How the land that emerges on either side of an interstate boundary stream shall be disposed of as between
public and private ownership is a matter to be determined

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

according to the law of each State, under the familar doctrine that it is for the States to establish for themselves
such rules of property as they deem expedient with respect to the navigable waters within their borders and
the riparian lands adjacent to them. Pollard's Lessee v.
Hagan, 3 How, 212, 230; Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324,
338; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 382; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 40, 58; St. Anthony FallsWater Power
Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349, 358; Scott v.
Lattig, 227 U. S. 229, 242. Thus, Arkansas may limit riparian ownership by the ordinary high-water mark; (Railway v. Ramsey, 53 Arkansas, 314, 323; Wallace v. Driver,
61 Arkansas, 429, 435, 436;) and Tennessee, while extending riparian ownership upon navigable streams to ordinary low-water mark, and reserving as public the lands
constituting the bed below that mark (Elder v. Burrus,
25. Tennessee, [6 Humph.] 358, 368; Martin v. Nance, 40
Tennessee [3 Head], 649, 650; Goodwin v. Thompson, 83
Tennessee [15 Lea], 209), may, in the case of an avulsion
followed by a drying up of the old channel of the river,
recognize the right of former riparian owners to be restored
to that which they have lost through gradual erosions in
times preceding the avulsion, as she has done in State v.
Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tennessee, 47. But these dispositions are in each case limited by the interstate boundary,
and cannot be permitted to press back the boundary line
from where otherwise it should be located.
It is hardly hecessary to say that State v. Muncie Pulp
Co., supra, and Stockley v. Cissna, 119 Fed. Rep. 812, relied upon in defendant's answer as judicial determinations of the boundary line, can have no such effect against
the State of Arkansas, which was a stranger to the record
in both cases.
Upon the whole case we conclude that the questions
submitted for our determination are to be answered as
,follows:\

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

(1) The true boundary line between the States, aside
from the question of the avulsion of 1876, is the middle
of the main channel of navigation as it existed at the
Treaty of Peace concluded between the United States
and Great Britain in 1783, subject to such changes as have
occurred since that time through natural and gradual

processes.
(2) By the avulsion of 1876 the boundary line between
the States was unaffected, and remained in the middle of
the former main channel of navigation, as above defined.
(3) The boundary line should now be located according to the middle of that channel as it was at the time the
current ceased to flow therein as a result of the avulsion
of 1876.
(4) A commission consisting of three competent persons, to be named by the court upon the suggestion of
counsel, will be appointed to run, locate, and designate
the boundary line between the States at the place in question in accordance with the above principles.
(5) The nature and extent of the erosions and accretions that occurred in the old channel prior to its abandonment by the current as a result of the avulsion of
1876, and the question whether it is practicable now to
locate accurately the line of the river as it then ran, will
be referred to said commission, subject to a review of its
decision by this court if need be.
The parties may submit the form of an interlocutory
decree to carry into effect the above conclusions.

