OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

both courts below and remanding to the District Court
to the end that in the light of the construction which we
have given the Act of 1910 the rights of the parties may
be considered and determined.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JusmcJE MclKENA dissents.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 158. Argued January 25, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
An order of a state commission requiring the stoping of certain interstate trains for reception and discharge of passengers at a county
seat of only 1500 population, upheld, in view of a statute, not directed
adversely at interstate trains, but specifying the train service to be
supplied to all county seats and evidencing a legislative estimate (not
here confuted) of county seat needs.
Serious doubt is expressed as to whether the order could be sustained,
from the standpoint of the local requirements of the population
merely, viz: as meeting a need for sleeping car service and as an
accommodation to passengers using the trains in question to reach
the city.
The need of making fast time in competition with other railroads and
in carrying the mail, held, not in this case to render the order unduly
burdensome to interstate commerce, it appearing that the required
stops would consume but a few minutes each, that stops are made
voluntarily at all other county seats and some smaller places, and
that there is a detour in the routing.
Power in a state commission to order steps by interstate trains,
not resulting in direct burden on interstate commerce, in pursuance
of a statute not aimed at such trains but specifying train service

GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEXAS.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

required at county seats, may coexist with the duty imposed on
carriers -respecting regulations for transportation facilities by
the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 1, 34 Stat. 584, and
the Act of June' 18, 1910, c. 309, ยง 7, 36 Stat. 546, and the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission over such
matters, if the order is not in conflict with regulations of the latter
Commission.
A railroad company which does not avail itself of an opportunity given
by the state law to test the validity of an order of a state commission
in the state or federal court, cannot be relieved from a cumulation
of penalties due to its violations of the order while awaiting proceedings by the State.
169 S. W. Rep. 385, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, with whom Mr. J. W. Terry,
Mr. A. H. Culwell and Mr. Robert Dunlap were on the
briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. Luther Nickels, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Texas, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JusmcE HoiwEs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit by the State to compel the defendant railroad, the plaintiff in error, to stop two interstate trains,
one numbered 17 and southbound, the other numbered 18

and northbound, at the City of Meridian, for a time sufficient to receive and let off passengers. Meridian is the
County Seat of Bosque County and has a population of
1500. Two other trains of the defendant going each way
stopped there daily, but the Railroad Commission of the
Sate found that these were insufficient for the needs of
business at that station and made the order that this suit

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

seeks to have carried but. The statute of Texas giving
to the Commission power to make such order contains
a proviso that "four trains each way, cairying passengers
for hire, if so inany are run daily, Sundays excepted, be
required to stop as aforesaid at all county seat stations"so that the Commission seems to have obeyed a statutory
mandate. Art. 6676, (2), Vernon's Sayles' Texas Civil
Statutes. Another article, 6672, imposes a penalty of not
more than $5,000 for every failure to obey such lawful
order, and this suit seeks to recover penalties as well. The
trial Court confirmed the finding of the Commission that
the present service is insufficient, and the order, and imposed a fine of $22,400, being $100 for each failure to stop.
It stated the facts in great detail but it will not be necessary to repeat them here. The Court of Civil Appeals
again confirmed the above finding and affirmed the judgment. The Supreme Court of the State refused to allow
a writ of error, declaring itself unable to say that the conclusion of the lower Court was unwarranted as matter of
law.
This case does not require quite so critical an examination into the facts as was made in MississippiR: R. Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335, 344,
345, and Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Wharton, 207
U. S. 328, 330, 334, 335, in order to decide whether the
judgment of the State Courts and Commission and, it
would seem, of the legislature, was wrong. If the reasoning that prevailed with the Court of Civil Appeals were
applied to Meridian simply in view of the number of its
inhabitants there would be a serious question whether it
could be sustained. For the consideration most emphasized was that no sleeping cars were attached to the local
trains and that in order to make use of such accommodation on the trains in question passengers had to get in or
out at stations from seven or eight to twelve or fifteen
miles away. It was thought that when the railroad fur-

GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEXAS.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

nished such accommodations to a part of the public it was
bound to furnish the same to all others-a very questionable proposition as applied. The other fact relied upon
was that passengers not infrequently came on trains 17
and 18 destined for Meridian and had to get out at Morgan or Clifton, the next stations to the north and south.
We repeat that whether these facts would justify an intermeddling with interstate trains in favor of a place of this
size, merely as such, would be a serious question. But
the State Court sustained the order as one required by
statute -in favor of county seats, up to the number of four
trains each way, Sundays excepted. The law is not directed adversely at interstate trains, but expresses the
specific judgment of the legislature as to the needs of the
county seats, all of which, of course, it knew. If its judgment is correct, which we have no grounds for denying,
the order may be justified, so far as its interference with
interstate commerce is concerned, unless some other fact
shows that the burden is too great.
The only additional facts material to this point are that
the defendant competes with railroads having shorter
routes, that for that reason and in order to keep its contracts for the carriage of United States mails it has to
make fast time-and that it has little or none to spare.
On the other hand Meridian is the only county seat at
which it does not stop, and it does stop at some smaller
places, as well as make a detour in order to go through
Houston. The time that would be taken would be four
or five minutes for Number 17, and about 10 minutes for
Number 18, according to the trial Court. The Court of
Civil Appeals says in general terms from three to five. We
are not prepared to say that the finding that there will be
no unreasonable burden is wrong.
It is urged that the power of the State Commission has
been taken away by the Hepburn Amendment to the Act
to Regulate Commerce, of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 1, 34

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Dissent.

246 U. S.

Stat. 584, and the further Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309,

ยง 7, 36 Stat. 546, making it the duty of carriers, including sleeping car companies, to make reasonable regulations affecting the facilities for transportation, the Interstate Commerce Commission having jurisdiction over such
matters. But the State requires certain services to county

seats with an aim that is not directed against interstate
trains as such. The statute is subordinate to the regulations of the Commission so far as it may lead to an incidental interference with such trains and in the absence
of any conflict it may stand as here applied. See Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission
of Wisconsin, 237 U. S.220, 233.
The other point argued here is that the railroad could
not be subjected to, at most, more than one penalty while
the validity of the order was awaiting judicial determination, Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123, 147, being relied
upon. But the statutes of Texas provided for a suit to
test the validity of the order, in a court either of the State
or of the United States, Art. 6657. Reagan v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.362, 391, 392. RailroadCommission of Texas v. Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio
Ry. Co., 51 Tex. Civ. App. 447. Eastern Texas R. R. Co.
v. Railroad Commission, 242 Fed. Rep. 300. The railroad
company saw fit to await proceedings against it, and although the case in all its aspects is somewhat extreme the
judgment must be affirmed. Wadley Southern Ry. Co.
v. Georgia, 235 U. S.651, 669.
Judgment affirmed.
The CHIEF JUsTIcE, MR. JUsTICE MCKENNA and MR.
JusTicE McREyNoIDS dissent.

