OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

MARCONI WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY
OF AMERICA v. SIMON.
CERTIORARI TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 168. Argued January 29, 1918.--Decided March 4, 1918.
The Navy Department accepted respondent's proposal to furnish certain sets of wireless telegraph appliances, the bid having been based
on the Department's specification describing the appliances desired
and upon a sample submitted with the bid as the Department required. Before the contract was completed this suit was brought
to restrain him from making or delivering, upon the ground that
petitioner's patent rights would thereby be infringed. In the courts
below a decree dismissing the bill was made and afirmed upon the
ground that the infringement, whether direct or contributory intrinsically, was not unlawful, in view of the Act of June 25, 1910,
c. 423, 36 Stat. 851. Held, following Cramp & Sons Co. v. International Curtis Marine Turbine Co., ante, 28: (1) That, if the making
of the appliances would be per se an infringement, the Act of June 25,
1910, construed in that case, afforded no defense; but (2) if, as contended and not decided in the courts below, the appliances as called
for were so far incomplete that their making and furnishing would
at most contribute to infringement by the Government in adjusting
and using them for essential governmental purposes, the acts complained of would not be illegal or subject to injunction, in view of
the statute as construed in the case cited and in Crozier v. Krupp,
224 U. S. 290. Held, further, (3) that, the nature of the infringement, i. e., whether it was direct or contributory having been
erroneously treated as irrelevant and so not decided by the courts
below, the case should be remanded to the District Court for consideration and determination of the rights of the parties in the light
of this court's construction of the statute, not overlooking petitioner's
contentions that making the appliances for the Government before
the contract was completed, and making them for persons other than
the Government, would constitute direct infringements.
231 Fed. Rep. 1021, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. L. F. H.Betts and Mr. John W. Griggs for petitioner:
Prior to the Act of 1910, a patentee had a remedy in the
Court of Claims by a suit against the United States for
its lawful use of an invention, and a remedy in the Court
of Claims or District Courts where his patented rights
were taken under the exercise of the power of eminent
domain. By a tortious or unlawful use of an invention,
the United States does not acknowledge or concede that
the patentee is entitled to the exclusive rights granted
by a patent, or that the United States has appropriated
or used any such rights. In fact, any such use of his
exclusive rights is in effect a denial of the existence of such
rights; or, at least, such use is treated by the United States
as the exercise of its own rights. Consequently the patentee could not then recover upon the theory of a taking
under the exercise of the right of eminent domain-which
does not involve the commission of a tort-for which the
law would imply a promise to pay reasonable compensation. But if the prerequisites to the taking of patent
rights under eminent domain existed, the patentee couldin a suit in the Court of Claims or the District Court-recover compensation prior to the Act of 1910, on an implied
promise to pay. Hollister v. Benedict, 113 U. S. 59, 67;
Brooks v. United States, 39 Ct. Cims. 494; Bethlehem Steel
Co. v. United States, 42 Ct. Clms. 365; United States v.
Russell, 13 Wall. 623, 626; United States v. Great Falls
Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445, 463 et seq.
Prior to the act, a patentee had a remedy by an infringement suit against officers of the United States for personal
profits and damages. Although it was held that officers
could not be enjoined from the infringement whei acting
in their official capacity, where the infringement was being
conducted at government plants or the infringing device
was in the possession and use of the tited States, yet
these officers were liable for the infringement and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

246 U. S.

account for such profits as they personally made and to
pay such damages as they personally caused. Cammeyer
v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225; James v. Campbell, 104 U. S.
356; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10; Forehand -V.Porter,
15 Fed. Rep. 256; Head v. Porter,48 Fed. Rep. 481, 488,
489. These suits in equity, brought against officers of the
United States for infringement of a patent, were not dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, but the court assumed jurisdiction and decided each case on its merits.
Prior to the act, a patentee had a remedy in equity for
an injunction and accounting for infringement against
vendors or contractors with the United States, but no
remedy against the United States for the use by the
United States without license or lawful right, i. e., a tort
or infringement of a patent.
The Act of 1910 is an enlarging and remedial statute
by which the United States simply consents to be sued in
tort for its infringement of certain patents. If it be held
that the act gives the Government the power of appropriating patent licenses by virtue of eminent domain, the
rights of owners of patents are further restricted, because
one effect of the act then is that in all cases of suits against
the Government for use of patented inventions, where no
element of contract is present, the Government may
attack the validity of the patent. This was not the case
before the act, for patentees then had remedies against
the Government in case of a taking under the power of
eminent domain and such cases involved necessarily, to
prevent their being actions for tort, the recognition of the
patentee's rights. It seems clear that the act should be
construed to apply only to cases of infringement by the
Government as distinguished from cases of a taking under
the power of eminent domain; and should not be construed
to deprive this petitioner of its formerly existent right to
an injunction against this respondent, and the recovery
from him of damages and profits.

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Argument for Petitioner.

The District Court's contention sweeps away the distinction between the infringing private citizen and an
infringing Government and its officers. It confuses the
right of a patentee to enjoin such private infringer, and
to recover compensation from him, even when acting
with the Government, with the power in the chancellor to
adjust his decree to what public necessity demands.
In the case at bar, the plaintiff had a right of action to
recover damages and profits made by Simon as an independent manufacturer and seller to the Government,
and also had an independent right of action, but no
remedy, against the Government as a user of the infringing
apparatus. Birdsell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S. 487; Jennings v.
Dolan, 29 Fed. Rep. 861; Daimler v. Conklin, 170 Fed..
Rep. 70. There. being three distinct and independent
rights, there are three distinct and independent remedies.
which a patentee has, to wit, the'right to recover from the
infringing manufacturer and vendee for profits and damages, and the distinct and independent right to recover
against the'user for damages and profits. It was on this
latter principle that the courts, prior to the Act of 1910,
took jurisdiction of a suit against an infringing contractor
with the Government, and not because the Government
had not consented to be sued. A contractor acting for
his own profit and benefit has not the same relation to the
Government as one of its officers or employees.
The District Court was in error in assuming that by
calling for bids for wireless apparatus under the Navy
specifications government officers appropriated a license
under the patent. The specifications did not mention
the invention of the patent in suit. The officers of the
Navy might have been'satisfied with unpatented apparatus or means. There is no dispute as to the power of the
Government to exercise its inherent right of eminent
domain over intangible patent rights. Congress, by the
provisions (ยง 120) of the National Defense Act, 39 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondent.

246 U. S.

213, has practically provided for the exercise of that right
in respect to manufactured munitions of war whether
patented or not.
Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, decided that the Act
.of i910 provided a remedy against the United States in
tort for its direct infringement, but that its officers could
not be enjoined from continuing such infringement.
The right to the injunction should have been sustained,
notwithstanding the Act of 1910. The operation of the
injunction, so far as the Government's interests were concerned, might have been suspended, if the facts warranted
such suspension, but injunction could not be rightfully
denied except in case of necessity or of immediate or impending danger to the Government. Even then, we submit, the relief should not have been denied unless the
petitioner or its licensees were unable or unwilling to supply
the necessary apparatus at a just and reasonable price,
and, in any event, unless the petitioner was secured against
loss by an indemnity bond from the respondent.
The act of the respondent in manufacturing the patented
apparatus, before he had any contract with the United
States and for his own benefit and profit, is a separate
tort, independent of any subsequent sale to or later contract with the United States, and was sufficient basis to
sustain the bill and for an order for an injunction. The respondent had no assurance when he infringed that he would
secure the government contract.
The fact that the apparatus might be sold to others
than the United States, or that the respondent might
use it, was sufficient to justify an injunction.
Mr. Walter H. Pumphrey for respondent:
The sample set was designed and manufactured under
the authority and at the request of the Navy Department, and in accordance with the Department's specifications, and use of the patent necessarily was involved in

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Argtument for Respondent.

complying with those specifications. Brooks v. United
States, 39 Ct. Chls. 494.
There was a failure of proof of direct infringement.
Manifestly, there can be no argument of infringement
based upon the manufacture of the apparatus which
Simon supplied to the Department-with nothing more.
Therefore, petitioner is driven into the position that the
Navy Department, in installing Simon's apparatus, adds
certain things to it, which result in producing a system embodying the alleged invention of the Marconi claims in
issue and which, therefore, infringes these claims. The
manufacture of a separate element of a patented combination, unless proved to have been conducted for the purpose and with the intent of aiding infringement, is not in
and of itself infringement. Saxe v. Hammond, 1 Banning
& Arden, 629; Heaton Co. v. Eureka (o., 77 Fed. Rep. 288;
Thomson-Houston (o. v. Ohio Brass Works, 80 Fed. Rep.
712; Bullock Co. v. Westinghouse Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 110.
Therefore, in order to sustain the petitioner's contention
as to contributory infringement, this court must view
the Federal Government and this respondent as conspiring
together, or acting in concert, the former as principal and
the latter as an accomplice, to commit an unlawful act.
Such a view is not possible under the Act of June 25, 1910,
and the decisions in Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, and
InternationalCurtis Marine Turbine Co. v. Cramp & Sons,
211 Fed. Rep. 124-152. Under the act, as interpreted by
this court, it is clear that the Federal Government had a
lawful right to make and use patented inventions, subject
to the obligation to make just compensation to the patent
owner for the property so taken. Whatever may have been
the character or quality of the act of the government
officer with whom Simon negotiated, the completion and
use by the Government of the apparatus in question was
clearly an adoption by the United States of the act of the
officers when and as committed, and caused such act to

OCTOBER TERM,, 1917.
Argument for Respondent.

246 U. S.

become, in virtue of the statute, a rightful appropriation,
for which compensation is provided.
The facts admitted and established conclusively show
that the real defendant here is the United States. It was
the Navy Department that decided upon and elected to
use the apparatus, advertised and solicited, bids for it,
required each bidder to make and submit a sample set,
designated and authorized the respondent Simon, along
with several others, to furnish certain parts of a wireless
transmitting apparatus for examination and test, which
parts are herein termed a sample set, added the essexitial
elements necessary to make the incomplete and inop-.
erative apparatus complete and operative for wireless
transmission, and it was the Department's completion
and use of the apparatus that brought it within the claims
of the patent in suit, if it is so. The action should clearly
have been brought against the Government in the Court
of Claims. [Counsel went fully into the purpose of the
Act of 1910, and its relation to the doctrine of eminent
domain, and its supposed effect in creating a license in
favor of the Government, bestowing much -consid6ration
upon the case of Crozier v. Krupp.]
Simon does not sell wireless telegraph apparatus to the
Navy Department; he is merely a contractor, making
and supplying it to the Department on its orders. He is,
therefore, not a vendor of such apparatus. Johnson Co. v.
Union Co., 55 Fed; Rep. 488. Obviously, the license to
the 'Government is unrestricted and protects those who
do for the Government that which the Government has
a right to do under the license. To hold that the license
to the Government is a limited license to "use," in the
narrow sense of the use of machines or apparatus, would
defeat the very purpose this court, in Crozier v. Krupp,
held the act was intended to serve, to wit, to avoid "interference with the right of the Government to make and
use" inventions in the interest of the commonwealth.

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Opinion of the Court.

Even if the word "use" be taken in the narrow sense, it is
nevertheless well settled that the right to use an invention
implies the right to make the same. The fact that the
defendant may make a profit out of the making was not
a violation of the petitioner's rights and the petitioner is
not entitled to the profit of the manufacturer. The right
to such profit passed with the license irrespective of the
individual who might do the work.
ViR. CHeF JusTICE WiTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the spring or early summer of 1915 the Navy Department submitted its call for proposals to furnish 25
wireless telegraph transmitting sets. The call contained
a specification describing the apparatus desired and provided that no bid would be entertained unless the bidder
in advance or at the time of his bid submitted a sample
of the apparatus which he would furnish under his bid if
accepted. Simon, the respondent, who had no manufacturing establishment, employed a manufacturer of electrical apparatus to make for him a wireless telegraph
transmitting set and when'it was made submitted it to
the Navy Department in accordance with the call. He
also submitted a bid to furnish the appliances called for
conformably to the sample and his bid was accepted by
the Navy Department in August, 1915. Before the contract, however, was formally completed, in September
following, the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company, the
petitioner, as assignee of the Marconi patents on apparatus for wireless telegraphy, filed its bill against Simon
seeking an injunction preventing him from making or delivering the apparatus described in his bid on the ground
that his doing so would be an infringement of the rights
secured by the Marconi patents. The complainant moved
for a preliminary injunction in accordance with the prayer
of the bill, supporting its motion by affidavits, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

defendant made a counter motion to dismiss the bill, the
motion not being in the record but the ground thereof
being persuasively shown by an affidavit submitted in
its support, as well as by the reasons given by the court
when it came to pass upon the motion. The ground stated
in the affidavit was as follows:
"That affiant, in supplying the United States Navy with
wireless sets constructed in accordance with Navy Specifications in the present instance for use on submarines,
understood that he would be free of any and all liability
for profits and damages for alleged infringement of patents, in view of the law as established by many recent
decisions of the United States Courts holding that the
Government, in the exercise of the right of eminent domain, may impose a license on any patent, the subjectmatter of which it elects to use, and if the apparatus suppled by affiant to the Navy comes within the claims of
the patent in suit, affiant has only assisted the Government, a licensee, in carrying out its license."
On the hearing of the motions there was contention as
to whether the transmitting.sets furnished by Simon were
merely an indirect or contributory infringement of the
Marconi patents because they were not complete and
could not become so until they were adjusted for use and
used by the Navy Department, or whether they were so
complete without reference to such subsequent adjustment and use as to be a direct infringement. In passing
at the same time upon the motion for injunction and the
motion to dismiss the bill, the court, not doubting that
the bill and the affidavits supporting the motion for an
injunction established that the making and furnishing
of the apparatus by Simon in an abstract sense infringed
the Marconi patents either directly or indirectly by contribution, did not find it necessary to determine which
one of the two characters- of infringement had resulted
because it concluded that such determination in the con-

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Opinion of the Court.

crete was wholly irrelevant, as, under the view taken of
the case, in any aspect there was no unlawful infringement. This conclusion was reached by considering the
Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, in connection
with the decision in Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, and
by holding that from such considerations it resulted that
there existed in favor of the United States a general license to use patent rights when necessary for its governmental purposes and that Simon, as a contractor or one
proposing to contract with the United States, could avail
himself of the license right in favor of the United States
and therefore was entitled to make and deliver the articles in question for the United States although if such license had not existed, the doing so would be either a direct
or contributory infringement. The order as to both the
injunction and the motion to dismiss were as follows:
"No injunction will issue. The motion to dismiss is
granted, unless plaintiff elects in twenty days to plead
over, and allege infringements not arising from governmental contracts. If such election is made, defendant to
answer in twenty days after amended bill filed." (227
Fed. Rep. 906.)
The complainant having refused to make the election
and to amend, a decree of dismissal was subsequently
entered which was reviewed by the court below. That
court, while it affirmed upon the theory of the license resulting from the Act of 1910 in accordance with the views
which had been expressed by the trial court, also treated
the act of Simon as either an infringement per 8eor a contribution to the infringement, if any, resulting from the
acts of the United States, and did not distinguish between
them doubtless because of a belief that under the construction given to the Act of 1910 both were negligible
and afforded no ground for complaint. (231 Fed. Rep.
1021.) By virtue of the allowance of a writ of certiorari
the case is now before us.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

In view of the construction which we have given the
Act of 1910 in the case of William Cramp & Sons Co. v.
International Curtis Marine Turbine Co., just decided,
ante, 28, it is apparent that both the courts below erred,
since the significance which they gave to the statute, and
upon which their conclusions were based, we have held
in the case stated to be without foundation. It would
hence follow, looking at this case from a generic point of
view, that our duty would be to reverse the action of both
courts below and to decide the controversy on the merits
in the light of the construction of the statute which we
have announced. But we are of opinion that under the
case as made by the record the duty of applying to the
issues the true meaning of the statute cannot with safety
or with due regard to the rights of the parties be now performed, because of the failure of the courts below (a failure obviously resulting from the mistaken view they took
of the statute) to determine whether the acts of Simon in
furnishing the wireless apparatus amounted to an intrinsic or per se infringement, or only constituted contributions to the infringement, if any, resulting from the adjustment and use of the apparatus by the United States
-forits essential governmental purposes. We are compelled
to this conclusion because, if the making of the parts was
in and of itself an infringement, it is clear under the ruling which we have just made in the Cramp Case that
Simon was not protected by the supposition of a license
resulting from the Act of 1910 and that his acts were none
the less wrongful because committed in the course of the
performance of a contract with the United States. And if,
on the other hand, they were only contributions to an infringement resulting from the acts of the United States,
it is equally clear that, in view of the provisions of the
Act of 1910 as interpreted in the Cramp Case and as upheld and applied in the Crozier Case, no illegal interference with the rights of the patentee arose or could arise

MARCONI WIRELESS CO. v. SIMON.
46.

Opinion of the Court.

from the mere furnishing to the Government of the United
States of the parts which were not per se infringements,
even although the use by the United States would infringe the patents.
It follows therefore that to finally decide the case would
require us to determine whether or not the apparatus as
furnished was a direct infringement or mere contribution.
But to do this would call for the exercise on our part of a
duty which it was the province of the court below to perform and which doubtless it would have performed but
for the error into which it fell concerning the interpretation of the Act of 1910 and the applicatibn to the subject
which was before it of the prior decision of this court in
Crozier v. Krupp, supra. Under these circumstances, as
we have clearly removed by our decision in the Cramp
Case all reasons for misconception concerning the statute
and have thus cleared the way for the discharge by the
court below of its duty, we think the case before us comes
directly within the spirit of the ruling in Lutcher & Moore
Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S.'257; United States v.
Rimer, 220 U. S. 547; William Cramp & Sons Co. v. International Curtis Marine Turbine Co., 228 U. S. 645;
Brown v. Fletcher, 237 U. S. 583. We do not overlook,
in saying this, contentions advanced in argument that,
as the devices may have been made by Simon not only
for the Government but for other persons, and even those
furnished the Government were made before the contract
with the Navy Department was completed, therefore his
act in making them was a direct infringement. We do
not, however, stop to dispose of them, since we are of opinion that under the state of the record we ought not to
do so but should leave them also to be considered for
what they are worth by the court below, if duly presented
and relied upon, when it comes hereafter to consider the
controversy.
Our order therefore will be one reversing the decrees of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

both courts below and remanding to the District Court
to the end that in the light of the construction which we
have given the Act of 1910 the rights of the parties may
be considered and determined.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JusmcJE MclKENA dissents.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 158. Argued January 25, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
An order of a state commission requiring the stoping of certain interstate trains for reception and discharge of passengers at a county
seat of only 1500 population, upheld, in view of a statute, not directed
adversely at interstate trains, but specifying the train service to be
supplied to all county seats and evidencing a legislative estimate (not
here confuted) of county seat needs.
Serious doubt is expressed as to whether the order could be sustained,
from the standpoint of the local requirements of the population
merely, viz: as meeting a need for sleeping car service and as an
accommodation to passengers using the trains in question to reach
the city.
The need of making fast time in competition with other railroads and
in carrying the mail, held, not in this case to render the order unduly
burdensome to interstate commerce, it appearing that the required
stops would consume but a few minutes each, that stops are made
voluntarily at all other county seats and some smaller places, and
that there is a detour in the routing.
Power in a state commission to order steps by interstate trains,
not resulting in direct burden on interstate commerce, in pursuance
of a statute not aimed at such trains but specifying train service

