OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

guaranteed by the United States Constitution, but that
such business, in every essential particular, is business
which has been transacted by the company in this State in
violation of the statutes referred to."
Beyond serious doubt the above specifications concerning the business carried on in Virginia are supported
by the record. A material part of it was intrastate.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA AT THE RELATION OF THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 177. Argued March 11, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
A foreign corporation, for lump sums, made and performed contracts
to furnish completed automatic railway signal systems in Virginia,
in the performance of which the materials, supplies, machinery, devices and equipment were brought from without, but their installation, as structures permanently attached to the soil, required employment of local labor, digging of ditches, construction of concrete
foundations, and painting. Held, that local business was involved,
separate and distinct from interstate commerce, and subject to the
licensing power of the State. Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16.
The Virginia law imposing a fee for the privilege of doing local business
of $1,000 on foreign corporations with capital over $1,000,000 and
not exceeding $10,000,000 (Acts 1910, c. 53, ยง 38a), upheld, as not
arbitrary or unreasonable under all the circumstances, though the
case is on the border line.
118 Virginia, 301, affirmed.

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA.
500.

501

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh Satterlee, with whom Mr. Hiram R. Wood
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Just what did the defendant do in Virginia? It employed there about 20 men-I1 signal engineers and experienced men and 9 laborers-for possibly four or five
months altogether. They erected iron signal masts about
two miles apart and fitted on them alternating current
induction motors, signal arms, gears, relays and housings,
transformers, line arresters, etc. To reach the rails they
dug short, shallow trenches, to an aggregate amount of
not over 1,600 feet in a hundred miles. The Southern
Railway Company furnished and put up the necessary
wooden poles and wires. The defendant's men applied
the last coat of paint to the signal apparatus, the first
coats having been applied at the factory.
The defendant did these things in Virginia only because
it could not do them in New York, and it had no desire or
intention to establish its business in Virginia. Because
of the nature of the defendant's products it was a complicated, tedious job to install them ready for use, but
the defendant was in Virginia for that purpose and no
other. It was merely completing a sale to the Southern
Railway Company, and it did no business and had no
relations with the citizens of Virginia except for hiring a
few laborers.
In short, the defendant was doing in the State isolated
acts incidental to its manufacturing and selling business
conducted in New York. These acts completed, it might
or might not ever again have so much as one employee
in the State. To force such a casual, occasional entrant
to secure a license to do business, continuously to maintain an office, to pay a license tax of $1,000 and an annual
registration tax, would be, we respectfully submit, the
height of injustice. The very language of the statutes

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

regulating foreign corporations doing business in the State
is manifestly ill chosen to achieve such a result.
This court early decided that single transactions in a
State by a foreign corporation, even in the conduct of its
ordinary business, did not constitute "doing business."
Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727.
Of course, the whole subject of "doing business" is
interwoven with the effect of the commerce clause of the
Constitution and many decisions assign one ground or
the other apparently without much discrimination. More
accurately speaking, however, if a foreign corporation is
not doing business, there is no need to discuss the commerce clause, while if it is doing business, it may still
be relieved from compliance with state statutes if its
business be interstate.
A collateral line of cases throws an illuminating sidelight
upon this difference. It is held that a foreign corporation
is not subject to process in a State unless it is doing
business there, but that a corporation may be doing business in a State for the purpose of suit against it, if continuously in the State, while not subject to state foreign
corporation laws because engaged in interstate commerce.
InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579.
To the same effect are St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.
v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218; Washington-Virginia Ry.
Co. v. Real Estate Trust Co., 238 U. S. 185; Tauza v.
Susquehanna Coal Co., 220 N. Y. 259. But when the
corporation is not doing business in the State, service
there on its officers is invalid. Riverside Cotton Mills v.
Menefee, 237 U. S. 189; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co.
v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264.
It should not be difficult to perceive the very substantial difference between the position of the Harvester
Company, in the above decision, which was continuously
in the State by its many agents, engaged in a permanent
course of business, and was accordingly held to be doing

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA. 503
500.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

business there, although immune from state regulation
because its business was interstate, and the position of
the General Railway Signal Company, which entered
Virginia temporarily for the sole purpose of completing
definite sales already made to one customer, and was
not doing business there, aside from any application of
the commerce clause.
Inability readily to start an action against a foreign
corporation is no justification for requiring the registration of such a corporation, unless it be actually doing
business in the State and business that is not interstate
commerce.
A fortiori, if a corporation is not doing business in a
State for the purpose of service of process upon it, it is
not doing business for the purpose of the statutes regulating foreign corporations.
In determining whether or not a foreign corporation is
doing business in a State, we respectfully but earnestly
submit, there are two fundamental questions.
First, is the corporationin the State temporarily or permanently? It is there temporarily if it is making one or
more occasional sales, if it is doing one or more definite
pieces of work for specified persons. It is there permanently if it maintains an office or a resident force of
salesmen in the State. If it is there only temporarily, a
further question must be put:
Second, what is the business of the corporation? If the
corporation manufactures and sells machinery, for example, at a plant outside the State and enters the State
only to make deliveries or to install or erect machinery
which from its nature could not be shipped ready for
operation, then the corporation is not doing business, its
business, in the State. If, however, the business of the
corporation is contracting or constructing, employing
materials which it buys indiscriminately wherever it can,
then, wherever it moves its construction plant, it is doing

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

24 U. S.

business, its business. The actual work in the State that
is done by both corporations may be exactly the same,
but one may be doing business7 in the State and the other
not. This obvious point, clear from many cases, the
courts below missed altogether. See Buffalo Refrigerating
Mach. Co. v. Penn Heat & Power Co., 178 Fed. Rep. 696.
For several reasons, only one of which needs immediate
mention, Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16, is no authority for the complainant, and, on the contrary, provides an illustration of our position. The defendant, an
individual agent, was convicted under a local ordinance
for carrying on the business of erecting lightning rods
without a license. As a matter of fact, he had carried on
the business,-he admitted it,-and no doubt his employer, the foreign corporation, was doing business in
Georgia. By every criterion we have advanced that
would be so. The foreign corporation was by fair inference permanently and continuously in the State (see
our first question above). Whether or not, though doing
business, it was subject to a state license tax, is another
question. But the present defendant, unlike the defendant or his employer in Browning v. Waycross, has not
been carrying on a continuous course of business in
Virginia. Cf. Williams, Inc., v. Golden & Crick, 247 Pa.
St. 397, and Delaware River Constr. Co. v. Bethlehem &
Nazareth Ry. Co., 204 Pa. St. 22.
Even if the plaintiff in error were held to be doing
business in the State of Virginia, its business was interstate commerce and was protected by the Federal Constitution against state burdens. International Textbook
Co. v. Tone, 220 N. Y. 313; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;
Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27. As it is proper to
procure orders in the State, so it is necessary to deliver
there the goods ordered. They need not be shipped directly to the purchaser, but may be delivered in any rea-

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA.
500.

505

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sonably convenient way. Caldwell v. North Carolina,187
U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S. 507; Western
Oil Refg. Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346. The retention
of title and possession until payment upon delivery in
the State does not rob the transaction of its character
as interstate commerce. Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v.
Sims, 191 U. S. 441. Even the exercise in a State of an
option to purchase, given in connection with an interstate
sale, is protected by the commerce clause if as a practical
matter the business is one affair. Davis v. Virginia, 236
U. S. 697. The right to enforce payment for interstate
sales is so essential to interstate commerce as to be protected by the commerce clause. Sioux Remedy Co. v.
Cope, 235 U. S. 197. If interstate sales are made from
goods kept in a warehouse in the State for shipment
from time to time out of the State, no license can be
imposed on the seller. Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178.
The installation of its signals in Virginia by the plaintiff
in error was just as necessary to its interstate commerce
as any of the acts within the State involved in the foregoing decisions.
Realizing the difficulty of applying rules to so complex
a subject, we yet believe that the solution of the problem
can usually be made easy by ascertaining the answers to
two further questions, which partly overlap our former.
First, is the essence of the transaction, taken as a whole,
the interstate sale or the work done in the State? In
other words, which is only accessory to the other? The
essence of the transaction is the sale if the corporation
manufactures or deals in goods for which it is seeking an
outlet. The essence of it is the work done if the corporation is a contractor, having little or nothing to sell but
its services.
Second, is the work done in the State reasonably incidental or necessary to the consummation of the interstate sale? Fortunately in our case the answer is clear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

The evidence shows that the signals sold the railway were
complex and intricate and required installation by specially trained experts; that they could not be put together
before shipment; that the manufacturer's trained employees were best fitted to install them; that the Southern
Railway Company had no signal organization competent
to install the signals; and that the installation by the
manufacturer was necessary to effect the sale. It is immaterial, therefore, if the General Railway Signal Company had in Virginia twenty employees (as they had), or a
hundred,-off and on for a few months (as they did), or
continuously for years,-if the plaintiff in error was
primarily engaged in selling its signals, and its employees,
wherever hired or residing, were engaged in completing
such sales.
If, although the contractor furnishes them from outside
the State, the materials are readily purchasable in the
market and it is only their assembly in a certain manner
within the State that alters them from general usefulness
and adaptability into the specific structure desired, then
it is likely that the work in the State is the essence of the
transaction. But if the contractor at its plant outside
the State manufactures more or less ordinary materials
into definite apparatus, which already has a unique
character before its shipment into the State, then the
necessary assembly in the State of that apparatus into
the completed whole for which it was solely adapted
before shipment cannot outweigh the interstate commerce. Browning v. Waycross, fairly read, is at best no
authority for the complainant and actually supports the
test questions which we have above suggested.
The imposition of a tax upon the entire capital stock
of the plaintiff in error as a condition of its doing intrastate business in connection with its interstate business
is repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
The inability of the defendant to perform the work of

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA.
500.

507

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

installation in Virginia would have prevented or at least
seriously embarrassed its confessedly interstate sale to
the Southern Railway Company. Permission by Virginia, therefore, only upon a burdensome condition to put
together the signals in Virginia would have a very direct
effect upon the interstate commerce in which the defendant was engaged.
Assuming that the defendant was engaged in intrastate
business in its installation work, yet the State could not
impose as a condition of its doing such business, closely
and inseparably connected as it was with its interstate
business, which admittedly the State could not prevent,
a tax upon the defendant's entire capital stock. As above
indicated, a tax measured by the proportion of the defendant's capital stock represented by property owned
and used in the State would have been proper, which confirms the validity of the defendant's contention that it
was not doing business in Virginia, for the proportion of
the defendant's capital stock represented by property
owned and used in the State is now and always has been
zero.
In the installation alone of its signals upon the Southern Railway the plaintiff in error was engaged in interstate commerce. Whoever was engaged in installing the
signals in the present case, partly to replace old signals,
was engaged in maintaining and improving an instrumentality of interstate commerce, and was consequently
engaged in interstate commerce. If the employees were
engaged in interstate commerce, naturally the employer
was likewise. Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna& Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, and other cases.
It is true, as indicated in the Pedersen Case, that a workman engaged in the laying out of a new railroad or the
construction of a bridge in connection therewith is not
engaged in interstate commerce. The commerce does
not begin until the breath of life is infused into the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

pleted work, until operation is begun. But the Southern
Railway was a road in actual operation. The installation
of the signals was a work of maintenance, done in pursuance of the duty of the carrier to correct any insufficiency in its appliances or other equipment. The signal
workers were altering and repairing, as in the Pedersen
Case, a living, pulsating instrumentality of interstate
commerce. See Eng v. Southern Pacific Co., 210 Fed.
Rep. 92; Chrosciel v. New York Cent. & H. R. R. R. Co.,
174 App. Div. 175.
Whoever does it, the work of installing signals through
different States on interstate lines is indissolubly connected with interstate commerce. To hold otherwise
would be to permit any State capriciously to prevent the
installation of a uniform system of signals along interstate
railways, beyond question a matter of national concern.
The Urgent Deficiency Act of October 22, 1913, contained an appropriation to enable the Interstate Commerce Commission "to investigate and report in regard
to the use and necessity for block signal systems," and
the Commission has repeatedly urged enactment by Congress of a law compelling their adoption. Cf. Haskef v.
Cowham, 187 Fed. Rep. 403, and California v. Central
PacificR. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1.
Mr. J. D. Hank, Jr., Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTiC E McRE.xoins delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error seeks reversal of a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia which affirmed an
order of the Corporation Commission imposing a fine upon
it for doing business within the State without first obtaining proper authority.

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA.
500.

509

Opinion of the Court.

The essential facts concerning business done as found
by the Commission and approved by Supreme Court are
these:
"The- defendant is a corporation of the State of New
York, having an authorized capital of $5,000,000. Its
principal office and factory is at Rochester, N. Y.,
where it owns and operates a large manufacturing
plant devoted to the manufacture of materials chiefly
used in the construction of railway signals which it sells
and constructs all over the world. It has a branch factory at Montreal, Canada, and maintains branch offices
in New York City, Chicago, and San Francisco.
"By contract dated the fifth day of May, 1914, with the
Southern Railway Company, the defendant agreed to
furnish certain materials, supplies, machinery, devices and
equipment, as well as all necessary labor, and to install,
erect, and put in place certain signals and apparatus
shown on the plans and described in the specifications,
from Amherst to Whittles, Virginia, fifty-eight miles, and
to 'complete the entire system and turn same over to the
railway company as a finished job,' subject to inspection
and acceptance, for $85,597. Similar contracts had been
previously made and fully performed, one dated September 6, 1911, covering the lines of the Southern Railway
in Virginia from Monroe to Montview, Virginia, thirteen miles, for $16,015, and one dated July 18, 1913, from
Orange to Seminary, Virginia, seventy-six miles, for
$112,428. The aggregate distance in this State covered
by these contracts being 147 miles, and the total consideration being $214,040.
"The purpose of these signals is to promote safety of
railway operation and they operate automatically.
"In order to construct these signals as required by the
contract it was necessary to employ in this State labor,
skilled and unskilled, to dig ditches in which conduits for
the wires are placed, to construct concrete foundations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

and to paint the completed structures. The completed
structures are along the side of the railway track, about
two miles apart, and are twenty-two or twenty-three feet
high. In the language of the witness, Moffett: 'It is necessary to erect the signal mechanism, the masts supporting
the mechanism, the houses for protecting the relays,
reactors, reactants and other similar electrical devices
protected from the weather, then the transformers, high
tension line arrestors and low tension line arrestors.' The
completed structures are permanently attached to the
freehold upon concrete bases."
We think the recited facts clearly show local business
separate and distinct from interstate commerce within the
doctrine announced and applied in Browning v. Waycross,
233 U. S. 16.
It is further insisted that as the amount of prescribed
entrance fee is based ubon maximum capital stock it
constitutes a burden on interstate commerce, contrary to
the Federal Constitution.
Section 38a, c. 53, Acts of Virginia, 1910 (copied in
margin) Irequires every foreign corporation with capital
"Sec. 38a. Every foreign corporation, when it obtains from the
1
State corporation commission a certificate of authority to do business in this State, shall pay an entrance fee into the treasury of Virginia, to be ascertained and fixed as follows:
"For a company whose maximum capital stock is fifty thousand
dollars or less, thirty dollars; for a company whose capital stock is
over fifty thousand dollars, and not to exceed one million dollars,
sixty cents for each one thousand dollars or fraction thereof; over
one million dollars, and not to exceed ten million dollars, one thousand
dollars; over ten million dollars, and not to exceed twenty million
dollars, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; over twenty
million dollars, and not to exceed thirty million dollars, one thousand
five hundred dollars; over thirty million dollars, and not to exceed
forty million dollars, one thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars;
over forty million dollars, and not to exceed fifty million dollars, two
thousand dollars; over fifty million dollars, and not to exceed sixty
million dollars, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; over

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL CO. v. VIRGINIA.
500.

511

Opinion of the Court.

over one million and not exceeding ten million dollars
when it obtains a certificate of authority to do local business to pay a fee of one thousand dollars. Inspection
of the statute shows that prescribed fees do not vary in
direct proportion to capital stock and that a maximum is
fixed. In the class to which, plaintiff in error belongs the
amount specified is one thousand dollars and, under all the
circumstances, we cannot say this is wholly arbitrary or
unreasonable.
Considering what we said in Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68; St. Louis Southwestern By. Co. v.
Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350; Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227; Kansas City, Memphis & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111,
the two characteristics of the statute just referred to must
be regarded as sufficient to save its validity. It seems
proper, however, to add that the case is on the border line.
See Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178; InternationalPaper
Co. v. Massachusetts, ante, 135, and Locomobile Co. v. Massachusetts, ante, 146.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
sixty million dollars, and not to exceed seventy million dollars, two
thousand five hundred dollars; over seventy million dollars, and not
to exceed eighty million dollars, two thousand seven hundred and
fifty dollars; over eighty million dollars, and not to exceed ninety
million dollars, three thousand dollars; over ninety million dollars,
five thousand dollars; provided, however, that foreign corporations
without capital stock shall pay fifty dollars only for such certificate of
authority to do business in this State.
"For the purpose of this act the amount to which the company is
authorized by the terms of its charter to increase its capital stock
shall be considered its maximum capital stock."

