OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

vester Company amenable to the process of the courts of
that State.
As to the attempted service of process upon the Secretary of State of Louisiana under the Louisiana Act of
1904 [Laws 1904, Act No. 54, p. 1331, as amended 1908,
[Laws 1908, Act No. 284, p. 4231, we understand the act,
as construed by the State Supreme Court, is not applicable to foreign corporations not present within the State
and doing business therein at the time of the service, and
having as in this case withdrawn from the State and
ceased to do business there. Gouner v. Missouri Valley
Bridge & Iron Co., 123 Louisiana, 964.
We reach the conclusion that the District Court did
not err in maintaining the exceptions filed by the defendant company and in quashing the attempted service made
upon it.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTICE McREyxoLDs took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

BRADER v. JAMES, FORMERLY REEVES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKWI OMA.
No. 126.

Argued January 7, 8, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Under the Supplemental Agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, a homestead allotment
of a full-blood Choctaw became free from the restrictions imposed
by § 12 at the death of the allottee, and the heir of the allottee,
though a full-blood, might alienate the land without approval of the

BRADER v. JAMES.
88.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

conveyance by the Secretary of the Interior. Mullen v. United
States, 224 U. S. 448.
But, by virtue of the Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, § 22,
the right in such case was again restricted so that the full-blood heir
could no longer convey without the Secretary's approval.
In determining the effect of the Act of 1906, supra,upon the right of a
full-blood Indian to alienate, no distinction can be made between
cases in which restrictions, previously imposed, were existent at the
date of the act (Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286), and
those in which they had expired. Congress was dealing with tribal
Indians still under its control and subject to national guardianship;
and the act, comprehensive, and applying alike to all the Five.
Civilized Tribes, evinces a purpose to substitute a new and uniform
scheme controlling alienation as to all the full-blood allottees and
their full-blood heirs. Section 22 is to be construed accordingly.
In view of the repeated decisions of this court, there can be no doubt
of the constitutional authority of Congress to impose the new
restriction. United States v. FirstNationalBank, 234 U. S. 245; and
United States v. Waller, 243 U. S, 452, distinguished.
49 Oklahoma, 734, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. A. Blythe and Mr. D. M. Tibbetts, with whom
Mr. Fred W. Green and Mr. J. Ht. Brader were on 'the
briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The Act of April 26, 1906, was general, applying to all
of the Five Civilized Tribes. There was no repeal by express reference of the former special acts relating to their
lands and therefore their provisions remained unless repealed by necessary implication. Washington v. Miller,
235 U. S. 422; Endlich on Interpretation of Statutes,
§ 223; Jefferson v. Cook, 155 Pac. Rep. 852.
The Act of 1906, while making the retrictions in some
instances more burdensome upon allotted lands (§ 19), is
essentially intended to relieve restrictions upon inherited
lands (§ 22). Being prospective and permissive in terms,
it should not be construed as an attempt to affect the
status of lands upon which restrictions had been removed

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

246 U. S.

or had expired by virtue of a prior special act. United
States v. Hemmer, 241 U. S. 379; Levindale Lead Co. v.
Coleman, 241 U. S. 432.
The estate acquired by Rachel James upon the death of
her mother was an estate in fee simple, free from all
restrictions upon alienation by reason of contractual relations existing between the members of the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Tribes and the United States by virtue of the
Act of July 1, 1902, and therefore Congress retained no
power thereafter to diminish her estate or property in the
real estate so acquired by a later enactment. Choate v.
Trapp, 224 U. S. 665; Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1; Holden
v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211; Wilson v. Wall, 6 Wall. 83; Bartlett
v., United States, 203 Fed. Rep. 410.
She became a citizen of the United States by the Act of
March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1447. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286.
By the gift of citizenship the foreign or dependent
status of the members of the nation or tribe was changed
in all particulars except as to such choses in action,
annuities and other reserve properties as were originally
retained by the United States in the different acts of
Congress leading up to and preceding the gift of citizenship. Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294; Tiger
v. Western Investment Co., supra; United States v. Bartlett,
235 U. S. 72.
The lands in controversy were allotted and inherited by
a citizen of the United States, free from restrictions, with
a full vested right of alienation. Sunday v. Mallory, 237
Fed. Rep. 526; Bartlettv. United States, 203 Fed. Rep. 410;
United States v. Hemmer, 241 U. S. 379.
The power of Congress is limited to the extension of
restrictions already existing and it cannot go so far as to
impose restrictions upon lands against which none existed
at the time of the act, belonging to a citizen. Tiger v.
Western Investment Co., supra; Heckman v. United States,

BRADER v. JAMES.
88.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S. 413; Choate v. Trapp, supra; Bartlett v. United
States, supra; Sunday v. Mallory, supra.
Mr. A. M. Works and Mr. Joseph C. Stone for defendant in error:
The Act of April 26, 1906, provides a comprehensive
scheme which affects all the full-blood citizens of the Five
Civilized Tribes and their full-blood heirs and all of their
allotted lands in the Indian Territory. It is a substitute
for, and repeals all prior legislation relating to restrictions
upon full bloods.
The literal and natural meaning of § 22 of the act
brings the allotted lands theretofore unrestricted within
the terms of the act requiring all conveyances by fullblood Indian heirs of their inherited allotments to be
approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
To construe § 22 so as to require all conveyances by
Indian heirs of the full blood conveying their allotted
lands to be made under the supervisory control of the
Secretary of the Interior is in full accord with the general
spirit and policy of the entire act and other legislation
in pari materia. The necessity for supervision was the
same whether the lands were theretofore alienable without approval or alienable only with the approval of the
Secretary. The act should be construed liberally in the
interest of the Indians to meet the necessities of the Indians, and to correct, as Congress intended, the mistakes
of prior legislation. Sections 19 and 23 aid in the construction of § 22.
Section 22 provides merely a procedure for the alienation of their inherited lands by full-blood Indian heirs and
does not prohibit the alienation thereof, nor does it impair any property rights or contractual relations. The
method of procedure provided is reasonable, and is analogous to many state laws which permit the sale of the
family homestead only with the approval of the spouse

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Argument for United States by amicus curts.

216 U. S.

of the grantor. The grantee of the Indian cannot avail
himself of the right, if any, of the Indian to assert the
unconstitutionality of the act which provides this proI
cedure.
The authority of Congress to enact §§ 22 and 19 and
similar provisions in the act is grounded in necessity because the power exists nowhere else. The dependence of
the Indians on the one hand and the duty of the Government on the other have resulted in .a well established
governmental policy commensurate with the needs of
the Indians, and Congress alone must determine when
this policy, called a guardianship, is determined.
This case is not distinguishable from Tiger v. Western
Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, by leave of
court, filed a brief on behalf of the United States as amicus
curice, contending that the Act of 1906 applied and was
within the power of Congress. On the latter point it was
said:
In Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, it was
held that Congress had the power to extend the period
of restriction on full-blood allotments. There is no substantial difference, so far as concerns the Indian's property right, between the extension of an existing restriction
period and the re-imposition of the same restriction for a
given time after the expiration of the original period. The
reasons which justify such action are the same in the one
case as in the other. Notwithstanding the grant of citizenship and the removal of restrictions, the duty of protection
which the Nation owes to dependent Indians is not discharged and the national honor which has been pledged
to the fulfillment of that obligation remains. Even the
grant of citizenship to tribal Indians may be, as it has
been in a measure, retracted. United States v. Pelican,
232 U. S. 442, 450-451. The power to deal with their

BRADER v. JAMES.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

affairs is not to be measured by a single act of hasty legislation. United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278, 290-291.
The national interest in them is not to be expressed in
terms of property. Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S.
413, 437. So long as they are maintained as wards of the
Nation-and it is not to be denied that the full bloods of
the "Five Civilized Tribes" are still so maintained-the
power to adopt any measure which in the judgment of
Congress is needful for their protection is "a continuing
power of which Congress could not divest itself." United
States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 600.
MR. JusTiOE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the right, of Rachel James, a fullblood Choctaw Indian, to convey certain land. The land
was originally allotted to Cerena Wallace under the Supplemental Agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws
of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 641. As to the homestead allotment, which is here in question, § 12 of said agreement
provided that it should be inalienable during the lifetime
of the allottee, not exceeding twenty-one years from the
date of the certificate of allotment. Cerena. Wallace,
mother of Rachel James, and herself a full-blood Choctaw Indian, died October 27, 1905, leaving her daughter,
Rachel James, sole surviving heir at law. On August 17,
1907, Rachel James, joined by her husband, conveyed
the land, embraced in the original homestead allotment,
with some other lands, to Tillie Brader, who conveyed by
quit-claim deed of September 13, 1909, to the plaintiff in
error. The conveyance by Rachel James to Tillie Brader
was not approved by the Secretaxy of the Interior. Rachel James prosecuted this suit to recover the land, and
for use and occupation thereof, basing her right of recovery on the fact that her conveyance had not been approved by the Secretary of the Interior. She succeeded
in the court of original jurisdiction, and the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma. 49
Oklahoma, 734.
The case as brought to our attention involves two
questions:
1. Could a full-blood Choctaw Indian, after the passage
of the Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, convey the lands
inherited from a full-blood Choctaw Indian, to whom the
lands had been allotted in her lifetime, without the approval of the Secretary of the Interior?
2. If such conveyance were made valid by the act of
Congress only with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, is such legislation constitutional?
As to the homestead allotment to the mother, Cerena
Wallace, under the Supplemental Choctaw and Chickasaw Agreement of July 1, 1902, Rachel James as her heir
at law received the land free from restriction, and had
good right to convey the same unless prevented from so
doing by the Act of April 26, 1906. Mullen v. United
States, 224 U. S. 448. As the conveyance here in question
was subsequent to the Act of April 26, 1906, if that act
covers the case, and is constitutional, Rachel James may
not convey without the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, and the judgment below was right.
The Act of April 26, 1906, was before this court in Tiger
v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286. In that case
it was held that a full-blood Indian of the Creek Tribe,
after the passage of the Act of April 26, 1906, could
not convey land which he had inherited, and which was
allotted under the act of Congress known as the Supplemental Creek Agreement of June 30, 1902, 32 Stat.
500, and as to which the five years named in § 16 of that
act had not expired when Congress passed the Act of April
26, 1906, without the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior. In that case, as in this, a construction of § 22
of the last-named act was directly involved. That section
provides:

BRADER v. JAMES.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

"That the adult heirs of any deceased Indian of either
of the Five Civilized Tribes whose selection has been
made, or to whom a deed or patent has been issued for
his or her share of the land of the tribe to which he or she
belongs or belonged, may sell and convey the iands inherited from such decedent; and if there be both adult and
minor heirs of such decedent, then such minors may join
in a sale of such lands by a guardian duly appointed by
the proper United States court for the Indian Territory.
And in case of the organization of a State or Territory,
then by: a proper court of the county in which said minor
or minors may reside or in which said real estate is situated, upon an order of such court made upon petition
filed by guardian. All conveyances made under this provision by heirs who are full-blood Indians are to be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under
such rules and regulations as he may prescribe."
The conveyance by Rachel James is within the terms
of the section as construed in the Tiger Case, unless the
fact that the restriction of the act under which she inherited had expied when the Act of April 26, 1906, was
passed, whereas in the Tiger Case the former limitation
had not expired when the act was passed, makes such difference as to require a different ruling in the present case.
We are of opinion that this fact does not work a difference
in result. As set forth in the opinion in the Tiger Case,
the Act of April 26, 1906, was a comprehensive one, and
intended to apply alike to all of the Five Civilized Tribes,
and to make requirements as to conveyances by full-blood
Indians and the full-blood heirs of Indians, which should
take the place of former restrictions and limitations. The
purpose was to substitute a new and uniform scheme controlling alienation in such cases, operating alike as to all
the Civilized Tribes. Notwithstanding Rachel James
might have conveyed the homestead allotment after it
descended to her, she was a Tribal Indian, and as such

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S,

still subject to the legislation of Congress enacted in discharge of the Nation's duty of guardianship over the Indians. Congress was itself the judge of the necessity of
legislation for this purpose; it alone might determine when
this guardianship should cease.
The argument' that the language in the last sentence
of § 22 must be taken to mean that Congress had no intention to deal with restrictions under former acts, certainly not with those which had expired, is answered by
the consideration that Congress was dealing with Tribal
Indians, still under its control and subject to national
guardianship. In the terms of this act Congress made no
exception as to rights of alienation which had ariseii under
former legislation, and it undertook, as we held in the Tiger Case, to pass a new and comprehensive act declaring
conveyances, of the class herein under consideration, to
be valid only when approved by the Secretary 'f the
Interior.
In view of the repeated decisions of this court we can
have no doubt of the constitutionality of such legislation.
While the tribal relation existed the national guardianship continued, and included authority to make limitations upon the rights which such Indians might exercise
in respect to such lands as are here involved. This authority did not terminate with the expiration of the limitation upon the rights to dispose of allotted lands; the
right and duty of Congress to safeguard the rights of Indians still continued. It has been frequently held by
this court that the grant of citizenship is not inconsistent
with the right of Congress to continue to exercise this authority by legislation deemed adequate to that end. It
is unnecessary to again review the decisions of this court
which support that authority. Some of them were reviewed in the Tiger Case. The doctrine is reiterated in
Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, and United
States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 598.

EIGER v. GARRITY.
88.

Syllabus.

The plaintiff in error relies upon Choate v. Trapp, 224
U. S. 665, in which this court sustained a contractual
exemption as to taxation of certain Indian lands. In that
case the right of exemption was based upon a valid and
binding contract, and that decision in no wise militates
against the right of Congress to continue to pass legisla
tion placing restrictions upon the right of Indians to convey lands allotted as were those in question here. In
United States v. First National Bank, 234 U. S. 245, and
United States v. Waller, 243 U. S. 452, this court dealt with
lands as to which certain mixed-blood Indians by act of
Congress had been given full ownership with all the rights
which inhere in ownership in persons of full legal capacity.
Those decisions do not place limitations upon the right
of Congress to deal with a Tribal Indian whose relation
of ward to the Government still continues, and concerning whom Congress has not evidenced its intention to release its authority.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma, and the same is affirmed.
Affirmed.

EIGER ET AL. v. GARRITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 143. Argued January 22, 23, 1918.--Decided March. 4, 1918.

A state statute giving a wife a right of action against any person who
injures her means of support by selling intoxicating liquor to her
husband, does not violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment by providing further that the judgment for damages
so recovered shall be a lien upon the premises where the liquor was
sold, as against an owner who leased, or knowingly permitted the
use of, such premises for the sale of intoxicating liquor.

