OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

246 U. S.

should not expect to hear the suggestion of such a point.
The whole case is simply that the State allows the attorney
employed to collect a claim to be subrogated to the rights
of the claimant so far as to secure the attorney's fees.
We see no reason why it should not.
Judgment affirmed.

E. H. EMERY & COMPANY v. AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 739. Argued April 19, 1918.-Decided April 29, 1918.
In respect of the removability to the District Court of an action against
a refrigerator car company for damages of less than $3,000.00 to
goods in interstate transitHeld: (1) That an undertaking for proper care and service implied
with the company's contract to furnish cars to the shipper could not
be a basis for liability under the Carmack Amendment.
(2) Upon the theory that the car company and the railroad were part.
ners as to the shipments, the former would become a common carrier
pro hac vice, and the amount involved would be insufficient. Act of
July 20, 1914, amending Jud. Code, ยง 28.
(3) Liability of the car company under a contract assuming liability
of the railroad (if the shipper could avail of it), would not make
the case one arising under the Act to Regulate Commerce.
(4) A charge that the car company, by furnishing improper cars and
service, failed in duty owed to the railroad and to the public, and so
caused the damage, if it did not make out the company a common
carrier, stated no duty under the act but only one at common law.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chester W. Whitmore for appellant.
Mr. Fred W. Lehmann, Jr., for appellee, submitted.

EMERY & CO. v. AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR CO. 635
634.
MR. JUSTIca

Opinion of the Court.
HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff, the appellant, brought a suit in a state
court against the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company and the appellee. The original petition
sought to charge both, as common carriers, under the
Interstate Commerce Act, for damage to peaches caused
by their being improperly stowed, handled and iced,
amounting to less than $3,000. After a trial a judgment
was entered for the railroad and it was held that under
the Iowa Statutes the present appellee was entitled to be
dismissed, as sued in the wrong county. Thereupon the
plaintiff issued a garnishee process against the railroad
as a debtor of the appellee, upon which the railroad made
default. Then the appellee was dismissed "as to the personal action but not as to said proceeding in rem," and a
time was allowed for the filing of a petition by the appellant. A petition calling itself "Substituted Petition" was
filed on October 16, 1916, and a few days later in
the same month a petition for removal to the District
Court of the United States was presented, which was
granted by the state court. A motion to remand was
made and denied. The plaintiff stood upon its motion
and declined to proceed farther, denying the jurisdiction
of the Court, whereupon the petition was dismissed, judgment was entered for the defendant, an appeal was taken
and it was certified that the appeal was taken solely upon
the jurisdiction of the Court.
We are content to assume without deciding that the
case, whether a new action or not, had become removable
if the difficulties to be mentioned can be overcome. On
this assumption the jurisdiction is maintained on the argument that the plaintiff seeks to impose liability upon the
defendant through the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, the governing tariffs and an interstate bill of

OCTOBER TERNI, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

lading issued by the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway
Company of Texas. The amendment to the Judicial Code,
ยง 28, by the Act of January 20, 1914, c. 11, 38 Stat. 278,
prohibiting the removal from state courts of suits, under ยง20
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, against common carriers
for injury to property, where the matter in controversy
does not exceed $3,000, is met by the fact that the substituted petition does not charge the defendant as a common carrier, and both parties now agree that it was not
one. Hence, it is said, the suit can be removed irrespective
of the amount involved. It becomes necessary therefore
to inquire in what way the defendant is supposed to be
liable under the acts of Congress. The substituted petition relies upon a contract between the defendant and the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas road by which the former
assumed liability for the damages of the kind alleged, or
some of them, and the fact that the railroad was a party
to the bills of lading and the governing interstate tariffs,
although the appellee was not. It also relies upon an alleged contract between it and the defendant for the cars
involved and an implied undertaking for proper care and
service. This last ground and other similar ones may be
laid on one side as they clearly are outside the scope of the
statutes concerned. So may a count alleging a partnership with the Missouri, Kansas and Texas in these transactions, as that would mean that the defendant became a
common carrier pro hac vice and so within the above
amendment to the Judicial Code.
The chief if not the only way in which the acts of Congress are brought in so as to give color to the attempt to
remove is through the subjection of the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas to those acts. But that affects the defendant
only by virtue of a contract between it and the road.
If in some way unexplained a stranger to the contract is
entitled to profit by it, the foundation is the contract, not
the laws which fixed the liability of the railroad that the

EMERY & CO. v. AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR CO. 637
634.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant assumed. The laws did not operate upon the
defendant by their own force but merely as a measure of
the damages agreed to be paid. To follow the language
of a somewhat different case, the contract "is the sole determinant of the conditions supposed, and its reference
elsewhere for their fulfillment is like the reference to a
document that it adopts and makes part of itself." Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
237 U. S. 300, 303.
One count alleges that the defendant caused the damage
as agent for the Missouri, Kansas & Texas road by furnishing cars with insufficient tanks, employing inexperienced men and defectively stowing and failing to ice the
peaches, and that these acts "constituted misfeasance
on the part of defendant of the duties it owed to its principal the M., K. & T. Ry. Co. of Texas, and to the public
at large." If this is not disposed of by what we have said,
then it states no duty under the Act to Regulate Commerce, but only one at common law. In no aspect
can it be maintained that any count attempts to allege
a primary liability of the defendant under the Act to
Regulate Commerce otherwise than as carrier, and if
sued as a carrier it cannot remove because the amount in
controversy is too small.

Judgment reversed.

