OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BATHGATE ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. BURCKHTAUSER ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. COONS ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. FARRELL ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. KLAYER ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. URICHO ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 575-580.

Argued January 16, 17, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

It is a settled rule in the construction of statutes defining crimes that
there can be no constructive offenses and that to warrant punishment
the case must be plainly and unmistakably within the statute.
Criminal Code, § 19 (Rev. Stats., § 5508) punishing conspiracies to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise
or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, etc., does not include a conspiracy to bribe voters at a general election within a State where
presidential electors, a United States senator and a representative in
Congress are to be chosen.
This section means now what it meant when first enacted, as part
of the Act of May 31, 1870, c. 114, 16 Stat. 140; see Crim. Code,
§§ 339, 341; it aims to guard definite personal rights or privileges,
capable of enforcement by a court, such as the right to vote for federal candidates, but not the political, non-judicable right or privilege,
common to all, that the public shall be protected against harmful
acts, to which latter appertain the general interests of candidate and
voter in the fair and honest conduct of such elections.
Tn reaching this result the section is construed subject to the rule of
strict construction, above stated, and in the light of the policy of
Congress not to interfere with elections within a State except by
clear and specific provisions.

UNITED STATES v. BATHGATE.
220.

Argument for the United States.

The express repeal of that section of the original act which dealt
with bribery (Act of May 31, 1870, upra, § 19) strengthens the
conclusion.
Affirmed.

Tim cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fitts for the United
States:
Congress may, by appropriate legislation, protect any
right or privilege arising from, created or secured by, or
dependent upon the Constitution of the United States.
The right of suffrage in the election of presidential
electors, United States senators, and members of Congress,
is such a right. Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 388, 389;
Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 663; United States v.
Mosley, 238 U. S. 383; and other cases.
The right to be free from bribery is included in the
general right of suffrage, and is deducible from the above
decisions; and is, therefore, together with certain other
rights of a somewhat kindred nature, secured to the
citizen and protected by § 19 of the Criminal Code. This
section deals with federal rights guaranteed to citizens by
the Constitution, and with all such federal rights, and
protects all without limit. While it may have been conceived in the purpose to protect'particular rights of a
peculiar class of citizens, the language employed is plain
and unambiguous, and Congress having committed itself
to its employment is presumed to have intended to bestow
full and absolute protection to the extent of such rights.
United States v. Moslej, supra. Can it be that the general
words are broad enough to protect the citizen who votes
from personal violence or intimidation (Ex parte Yarbrough, supra), and the election itself from corrupt count
and false certification (United States v. Mosley, supra),
and yet not broad enough to protect the suffrage rights of a
citizen from annihilation by the bribery of voters and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

246 U. S.

consequent undermining of the fabric of representative
government? In each case the power and the duty of the
government arise not solely for protection to the parties
concerned, but from the necessity of the government itself
that a right which it has guaranteed shall in fact be protected, viz, the right that every citizen has to be assured
by that government that the President, the senators and
the members of the House of Representatives will be
elected by the votes of free electors, cast according to their
free and unpurchased volitions. If, as has been decided
in the Mosley Case, it is an offense under § 19 for an election board to conspire to make a false return, it is equally
an offense for conspirators on the outside to mislead the
board into making a false return.
This general right of suffrage includes the right (a) to
cast the ballot without personal violence or the threat of
it, United States v. Acwel, 219 Fed. Rep. 917; 232 Fed.
Rep. 652; (b) to have the votes counted as cast and
certified as correctly counted, United States v. Mosley,
supra; and, the government asserts, (c) the right to have
honest votes measured against honest votes. Commonwealth v. Rogers, 181 Massachusetts, 184, and cases cited;
Ex parte Yarbrough, supra, pp. 662, 663; Commonwealth v.
Silsbee, 9 Massachusetts, 417, 418; People v. Hoffman, 116
Illinois, 587, 599.
Under the Constitution and laws of the United States
citizens properly qualified have the right to submit their
names to the electorate for presidential electors, United
States senators, and representatives in Congress. The
government is so formed that citizens must be chosen for
federal offices, and of necessity it follows that the right
given entitles the citizen to a fair ballot and an honest
count, free from bribery or corruption of any kind. United
States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 480. The right to have
the elections for federal candidates conducted fairly, is
implied as essential to the existence of the government.

UNITED STATES v. BATHGATE.
220.

Opinion of the Court.

All the rights created or secured by the Constitution are
not found in acts of Congress. See In re Neagte, 135 U. S.
1; In re Quarles, 158 U. S. 532; Motes v. United States, 178
U. S. 458, 462; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263;
Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S. 1; Rakes v. United
States, 212 U. S. 55; United States v. Lancaster, 44 Fed.
Rep. 885, 896; Felix v. United States, 186 Fed. Rep. 685.
The means employed in carrying out the conspiracy to
violate the right and whether or not they also offend state
laws axe immaterial. United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S.
476, distinguished. See Aczel v. United States, 232 Fed.
Rep. 652, s. c. 244 U. S. 650, 651.
Mr. John R. Holmes and Mr. Sherman T. McPherson,
with whom Mr. Froome Morris and Mr. M. Muller were
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.JusTicE McREYoLs delivered the opinion of
the court.

Except as to parties, the indictments in these six cases
are alike. Each contains three counts; the first and second undertake to allege a conspiracy to injure and oppress in violation of § 19, Criminal Code, and the third a
conspiracy to defraud the United States, contrary to
§ 37. Demurrers were sustained upon the ground that
rightly construed neither section applies to the specified
acts.
Section 37, originally part of the Act of March 2, 1867,
e.169, 14 Stat. 471, provides: "If two or more persons
conspire either to commit any offense against the United
States, or to defraud the United States in any manner or
for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties
to such conspiracy shall be fined not, more than ten thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than two years, or

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

both." It was considered in United States v. (-radwell, 243
U. S. 476, and held not applicable in circumstances similar
to those here presented. The Government has accordingly
abandoned the third count.
Section 19 provides: "If two or more persons conspire
to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in
the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his having so exercised the same, or
if two or more persons go in disguise on the highway, or
on the premises of another, with intent to prevent or
hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than five
thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten
years, and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any
office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created by the
Constitution or laws of the United States." And the two
counts based thereon charge defendants with conspiring
to injure candidates for presidential electors, the United
States Senate and representative in Congress at the regular election in Ohio, November 7, 1916, also qualified
electors who might properly vote thereat, in the free exercise and enjuyment of certain rights and privileges secured by Constitution and laws of the United States,
namely-The right (a) of being a candidate (b) that only
those duly qualified should vote (c) that the results should
be determined by voters who had not been bribed and
(d) that the election board should make a true and accurate count of votes legally cast by qualified electors
and no others. The indictment further alleged the con.spiracy was carried into effect as intended by purchasing
votes of certain electors and causing election boards to
receive them and make inaccurate returns.
The real point involved is whether § 19 denounces as
criminal a conspiracy to bribe voters at a general election
within a State where presidential electors, a United States

UNITED STATES v. BATHGATE.
220.

Opinion of the Court.

senator and a representative in Congress are to be chosen.
Our concern is not with the power of Congress but with
the proper interpretation of action taken by it. This
must be ascertained in view of the settled rule that "there
can be no constructive offenses, and before a man can be
punished his case must be plainly and unmistakably
within the statute" (United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S.
624, 628); and the policy of Congress to leave the conduct
of elections at which its members are chosen to state law
alone, except where it may have expressed a clear purpose to establish some further or definite regulation.
Departing from the course long observed, by Act of
May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 140, Congress undertook to prescribe a comprehensive system intended to secure freedom
and integrity of elections. Section 19 of that act declares
"that if at any election for representative or delegate in
the Congress of the United States any person shall knowingly . . . by force, threat, menace, intimidation,
bribery, reward, or offer, or promise thereof, or otherwise
unlawfully prevent any qualified voter of any State of
the United States of America, or of any Territory thereof,
from freely exercising the right of suffrage; . . . or
compel or induce by any such means, or otherwise, any
officer of an election in any such State or Territory to receive a vote from a person not legally qualified or entitled to vote; . . . or aid, counsel, procure, or advise
any such voter, person, or officer to do any act hereby
made a crime, .
. every such person shall be
deemed guilty of a crime, and shall for such crime be liable to prosecution in any court of the United States of
competent jurisdiction, and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars,
or by :mprisonment for a term not exceeding three years,
or both, in the discretion of the court, and shall pay the
costs of prosecution." In pursuance of a well understood policy, the Act of February 8, 1894, c. 25, 28 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

36, repealed the foregoing and other kindred sections in
Act of 1870 but left in effect §6, then § 5508, Rev. Stats.,
and now § 19, Criminal Code. See United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383; United States v. Gradwell, supra.
The Government in effect maintains that lawful voters
at an election for presidential electors, senator and member of Congress and also the candidates for those places
have secured to them by Constitution or laws of the
United States the right and privilege that it shall be
fairly and honestly conducted; and that Congress intended by § 6, Act of 1870, to punish interference with
such right and privilege through conspiracy to influence
voters by bribery.
Section 19, Criminal Code, of course, now has the same
meaning as when first enacted as § 6, Act of 1870 (see
Criminal Code, §§ 339, 341); and considering the policy
of Congress not to interfere with elections within a State
except by clear and specific provisions, together with the
rule respecting construction of criminal statutes, we cannot think it was intended to apply to conspiracies to
bribe voters. Bribery, expressly denounced in another
section of the original act, is not clearly within the words
used; and the reasoning relied on to extend them thereto
would apply in respect of almost any act reprehensible
in itself, or forbidden by state statutes, and supposed injuriously to affect freedom, honesty, or integrity of an
election. This conclusion is strengthened by express repeal of the section applicable in terms to bribery and we
think is rendered entirely clear by considering the nature
of the rights or privileges fairly within intendmnent of

original §6.
The right or privilege to be guarded, as indicated both
by the language employed and context, was a definite,
personal one, capable of enforcement by a court, and not
the political, non-judicable one common to all that the
public shall be protected againstharmful acts, which is

EGAN v. McDONALD.
220.

Syllabus.

here relied on. The right to vote is personal and we have
held it is shielded by the section in question. Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; United States v. Mosley, supra.

The same is true of the right to make homestead entry,
United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 76; also, of the right
of one held by a United States marshal to protection
against lawless violence. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263. While the opinion in United States v. Gradwell,supra,
does not determine the precise question now presented,
it proceeds upon reasoning which contravenes the theory
urged by counsel for the Government.
The court below properly construed the statute and
its judgments are
Affirmed.

EGAN v. McDONALD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 88. Submitted January 28, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Under § 7 of the At of May 27, 1902, c. 888, 32 Stat. 275, an Indian
allotment held under trust patent and subject to the restrictions on
alienation imposed by the Act of March 2, 1889, § 11, c. 405, 25
Stat. 888, may, upon the death of the allottee, be conveyed by his
heirs with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and the
approved deed passes the full title.
Where such a conveyance was made in 1908, and the Secretary approved it in 1909, held, that there was no law then in force making
an adjudication of heirship, either by a federal court or by the Secretary, a condition precedent to the validity of the conveyance.
McKay v. Kalylon, 204 U. S. 458, distinguished.
Upon error to a state court in a case where a vendee sued to recover
back earnest money paid his vendor, upon the ground that the title
tendered by the latter was not merchantable, and where the vendor
proved a conveyance of the land 'by certain heirs of the Indian

