THOMPSON v. UNITED STITES.
Counsel for Parties.

THOMPSON, ADMINISTRATOR OF THOMPSON,
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 184. Argued March 12, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
Section 162 of the Judicial Code, conferring jurisdiction on the Court
of Claims in certain cases to determine the claims of those "whose
property was taken" and sold under the Abandoned Property Act
of March 12, 1863, and amendments, applies only to claims based
on ownership at the time of seizure.
Wliere an owner of cotton sold it to the Confederate Government,
accepting Confederate bonds as full payment and agreeing to care
for it and deliver it as ordered, and the cotton was seized under
the Act of 1863, supra, while still in his possession, held, that he
was neither owner nor lienor, notwithstanding the bonds had become worthless and his vendee insolvent; and that there was no
basis for a suit by his administrator in the Court of Claims. Whitfield v. United States, 92 U. S. 165.
The intention of the Congress is to be sought for primarily in the
language used, and where this expresses an intention reasonably
intelligible and plain it must be accepted without modification by
resort to construction or conjecture.
It is to be presumed that an intention to change the law as declared by this court will be expressed by Congress in plain terms
-- especially where the matter is very important,--rather than in
such as are consonant with and within the scope of this court's
previous decision.
Affirmed.
THi case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William B. King, with whom Mr. George A. King,

Mr. Samuel Maddox and Mr. H. Prescott Gatley were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the
United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jusn=o

246 U. S.

CLARxE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decision by the Court of Claims
sustaining a demurrer and dismissing appellant's petition.
The appellant alleges that his decedent on April 28th,
1863, "executed a bill of sale to the Confederate States
of America" for seventy-two bales of cotton and received
therefor "bonds of the Confederate States Government to
the nominal value of $5,500." This bill of sale reads as
follows:
"72 Bales; Aggregate Weight 37309 at 15 $5,596.35/100
"State of Mississippi,
County of Copiah:
Pine Ridge, April 28/63.
"The undersigned having sold to the Confederate States
of America, and received the value of same in bonds,
the Receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Bales of
Cotton, marked, numbered and classed as in the margin,
which are now deposited at his Gin House & Shed hereby
agrees to take due care of said cotton whilst on his plantation, and to deliver the same at his own expense, at
Brookhaven, in the State of Miss. to the order of the
Secretary of the Treasury, or his Agents, or their Assigns.
J. H. Thompson."
It is further alleged that the appellant has no knowledge as to the disposition made of the bonds received by
his decedent and that they became valueless on surrender
of the military forces of the Confederate States; that the
cotton remained in the possession of his decedent until subsequent to June 30th, 1865, when forty-three of the seventytwo bales were taken from him by United States Treasury
agents under warrant of the Act of Congress, approved
March 12, 1863, c. 120, 12 Stat. 820, entitled "An Act to
provide for the collection of abandoned property" and
for other purposes; that the cotton was sold and the pro-

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
547.

Opinion of the Court.

ceeds deposited in the Treasury of the United States, and
that "the claimant [appellant] and said decedent have at
all times borne true allegiance to the Government of the
United States and have not in any way voluntarily aided,
abetted or given encouragement to rebellion against the
said Government, that is to say, if any such acts were
committed during the late Civil War between the years
1861 and 1865, a full pardon has been granted therefor by
the President of the United States."
Upon the facts thus stated the appellant asserts a
right to recover the net proceeds of the cotton seized and
sold, based upon the terms of ยง 162 of the Act of March
3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087 (the Judicial Code), which
reads as follows:
"Sec. 162. The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction
to hear and determine the claims of those whose property
was taken subsequent to June the first, eighteen hundred
and sixty-five, under the provisions of the Act of Congress
approved March twelfth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three
entitled 'An Act to provide for the collection of abandoned
property and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts within the United States,' and Acts
amendatory thereof where the property so taken was sold
and the net proceeds thereof were placed in the Treasury
of the United States; and the Secretary of the Treasury
shall return said net proceeds to the owners thereof, on
the judgment of said court, and full jurisdiction is given to
said court to adjudge said claims, any statutes of limitations to the contrary notwithstanding."
Assuming that the pardon pleaded in the petition and
the decisions of this court relieve the appellant of any
disability on account of the claimed disloyalty of his decedent (Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 147) it is clear
that he can prevail only if his decedent was the owner of
the cotton when it was seized, for the Court of Claims is
given jurisdiction to hear and determine only "claims of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

those whose property was taken," and this language can
have no other meaning.
In the case of Whitfield v. United States, 92 U. S. 165,
it was decided that a sale of cotton, with payment in
bonds, under circumstances precisely similar to those we
have here, passed title to the Confederate Government
without formal delivery, so that the vendor ceased to be
the owner of the cotton from the time he accepted the
bonds.
It is frankly conceded by the appellant that this decision rules the case at bar and we are asked to reconsider
and overrule it on various grounds.
It is argued that, because appellant's decedent in this
case (as in that) continued in possession of the cotton
until his vendee became insolvent and the bonds given
in payment became valueless, he had a lien for the value
of it, which constituted him the owner within the meaning of the statute.
The report of the Whitfield Case shows that this claim
was pressed upon the attention of this court, and that it
was rejected for the reason that the bonds were accepted as
payment, as fully as if it had been made in money, with
all the incidents of such payment. With this conclusion
we are satisfied.
It is also argued that Congress, in enacting this section,
intended to give a right of recovery to all persons who
sold cotton to the Confederate Government, which was
afterwards seized by the United States under warrant of
the Act of March 12, 1863, referred to, and upon the
theory that such sales were void and therefore did not
pass title but left the nominal vendors the owners of the
cotton, we are urged to so construe the section as to give
effect to such supposed intention.
It is asserted that evidence of this intention is to be
found in the fact that if not so construed the section will
be ineffective and meaningless, because all claims for

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
547.

Opinion of the Court.

property taken from owners under the Act of March 12,
1863, other than for such as was sold to the Confederate
Government had been disposed of before its enactment.
Even if the non-existence of other claims for the statute
to operate upon were shown, as it is not, by the petition
and the attached exhibit, still this contention could not be
allowed.
The intention of the Congress is to be sought for primarily in the language used, and where this expresses an
intention reasonably intelligible and plain it must be
accepted without modification by resort to construction
or conjecture. (Gardnerv. Collins, 2 Pet. 58, 93; United
States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 102.)
We have found that ยง 162, relied upon by appellant, is
sufficiently clear in meaning and we cannot doubt that if
the Congress had intended by it to change the law, as evidenced by the Whitfield decision, of which we must assume that it had full knowledge (Chesapeake & Potomac
Telephone Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 245) it would
have done so in plain terms, especially in a matter of such
great importance as we have here, and that language
would not have been used which, as we have seen, confers
jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims only in cases which
are clearly consonant with and within the scope of that
decision.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims
must be
Affirmed.

