UNITED STATES v. SCHIDER.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. SCHIDER, TRADING AS "JOS.
L. SCHIDER & CO."
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 468. Argued March 6, 1918.--Decided April 15, 1918.
Within the general terms of the Food & Drugs Act (c. 3915, 34 Stat.
768, §§ 7-8), a bottled article labeled "Compound Ess Grape,"
but which contains nothing from grapes and is a mere imitation,
nmust be deemed adulterated, since some other substance has been
substituted wholly' for the one obviously indicated by the label,
viz., "compound essence of grape," and also misbranded, since the
label carries a false and misleading statement.
In such case the mere use of the word "compound" is not a compliance
with the proviso in paragraph fourth of § 8 of the act, since it does
not give notice that the article is a pure imitation but suggests the
contrary.
Reversed.

THE, case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Chas.S. Coffey was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joseph S. Rosalsky, with whom Mr. Jacob I.
Berman was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mi. JUSTICE McREYxoLDs delivered the opinion of the

court.
An indictment containing six counts charged defendant,
Schider, with violating the Food & Drugs Act of June 30,
1906, 34 Stat. 768, by delivering for shipment in interstate
commerce food contained in a bottle plainly labeled as
follows:

OCTOBER TERM 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Compound
Ess Grape
Jos. L. Schider & Co.
93-95 Maiden Lane, New York.
Each count alleged the article was an imitation of grape
essence artificially prepared from alcohol, water and
synthetically produced imitation oils and contained no
product of the grape nor any added poisonous or deleterious ingredient; and that the word "imitation" nowhere appeared.
The first count further alleged it was "unlawfully adulterated in that an imitation grape essence artificially
prepared from alcohol, water and synthetically produced
imitation essential oils had been wholly substituted for a
true grape product, which the article purported to be";
and the second that it was "unlawfully adulterated in that
an imitation grape essence artificially prepared from alcohol, water and synthetically produced imitation essential
oils, had been mixed with the said article so as to reduce
and lower and injuriously affect the quality and strength
of the said article."
The further
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth counts, in varying
\ways,
alleged misbranding so as to deceive and
mislead in that the label indicated a true grape product,
whereas the article was not such but an imitation artificially prepared, one which contained nothing from grapes.
The trial court sustained a demurrer to each count upon
the view that, properly construed, the Food & Drugs Act
did not apply to facts stated.
Pertinent portions of the act follow:
"See. 7. That for the purposes of this Act an article
shall be deemed to be adulterated: . .
"First. If any substance has been mixed and packed
with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its
quality or strength.

UNITED STATES v. SCHIDER.
519.

Opinion of the Court.

"Second. If any substance has been substituted wholly
or in part for the article.
"Sec. 8. That the term 'misbranded,' as used herein,
shall apply to all drugs, or articles of food, or articles which
enter into the composition of food, the package or label
of which shall bear any statement, design, or device regarding such article, or the ingredients or substances
contained therein which shall be false or misleading in
any particular, and to any food or drug product which is
falsely branded as to the State, Territory, or country in
which it is manufactured or produced.
"That for the purposes of this Act an article shall also
be deemed to be misbranded: .
"First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under
the distinctive name of another article.
"Second. If it be labeled or branded so as to deceive
or mislead the purchaser, . . .
"Fourth. If the package containing it or its label shall
bear any statement, design, or device regarding the ingredients or the substances contained therein, which statement, design, or device shall be false or misleading in any
particular: Provided, That an article of food which does
not contain any added poisonous or deleterious ingredients shall not be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded in the following cases:

. . . Second. In

the case of articles labeled, branded, or tagged so as to
plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations, or
blends, and the word 'compound,' 'imitation,' or 'blend,'
as the case may be, is plainly stated on the package in
which it is offered for sale:

.

.

."

(34 Stat., c. 3915,

pp. 768, 770-771.)
The obvious and undisputed purpose and effect of the
label was to declare the bottled article "a compound essence of grapes." In fact, it contained nothing from
grapes and was a mere imitation.
Within the statute's general terms the article must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

deemed adulterated since some other substance had been
substituted wholly for the one indicated by the label;
and, also, it was misbranded, for the label carried a false
and misleading statement.
Defendant relies on the proviso in § 8 which declares
articles of food shaU not be deemed adulterated or misbranded if they are "labeled, branded, or tagged so as to
plainly indicate that they are compounds, imitations, or
blends, and the word 'compound,' 'imitation,' or 'blend,'
as the case may be, is plainly stated on the package in
which it is offered for sale." But we are unable to conclude that by simply using "compound" upon his label a
dishonest manufacturer exempts his wares from all inhibitions of the statute and obtains full license to befool the
public. Such a construction would defeat the highly beneficent end which Congress had in view.
We have heretofore said: "The purpose of the act is to
secure the purity of food and drugs and to inform purchasers of what they are buying. Its provisions are directed to that purpose and must be construed to effect it."
United States v. Antikamnia Co., 231 U. S. 654,665. "The
legislation, as against misbranding, intended to make it
possible that the consumer should know that an article
purchased was what it purported to be; that it might be
bought for what it really was and not upon misrepresentations as to character and quality." United States v.
Lexington Mill & Elevator Co., 232 U. S. 399, 409. And see
United States v. Coca Cola Co., 241 IT.S. 265, 277.
The stuff put into commerce by defendant was an "imitation" and if so labeled purchasers would have had some
notice. To call it "compound essence of grape" certainly
did not suggest a mere imitation but on the contrary
falsely indicated that it contained something derived
from grapes. See Frank v. United States, 192 Fed.
Rep. 864. The statute enjoins truth; this label exhales
deceit.

BETHLEHEM STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 523
519.

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court erred in sustaining the demurrer. Its
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

BETHLEHE~M STEEL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 191. Argued March 15, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
Having given bond to secure a contract with the Navy Department,
claimant paid premiums after alleged compliance with the condition,
and sued to recover the amount, contending that the Secretary of
the Navy should have canceled the bond and notified the surety.
It not appearing that claimant had bound itself to continue paying
premiums until the Secretary so acted, held, that the payment was
voluntary and gave no cause of action in the Court of Claims.

51 Ct. Clms. 394, affirmed.
THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Hayden for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the
United States.

Ma. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of, the
court.
The Bethlehem Steel Company entered into a contract,
dated September 27, 1909, with the United States to manufacture and deliver for the Navy large quantities of several
groups of armor plates, and agreed to replace any accepted

