OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

were reviewable in the Court of Appeals and are open to
decision in this court," is the final insistence of counsel.
We are unable to assent to the latter part of the insistence. Questions of law which may be raised upon the
indictment, the deductions from the facts which may be
charged against the action of the Governor, do not hnpugn it or the validity of the statute which enjoined it.
And surely the decisions of the courts of New York, one
trial and two appellate, affirming the legality of his action, are not decisions against the validity of the authority he exercised.
There is a difference between a question of power to
pass a law and its construction, and a difference between
the endowing of an officer with authority and his erroneous exercise of that authority. As was said by Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court in United States v.
Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 285: "The validity of a statute is
not drawn in question every time rights claimed under
such statute are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority, every time an act done by such authority is disputed."
We think, therefore, that the writ of error must be, and
itis,
Dismissed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. HADLEY, ADMINISTRATOR OF CRADIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 174. Argued March 7, 19"8.-Decided March 18, 1918.

If the defendant's conduct, viewed as a whole, warrants a finding 6f
negligence, the trial court may properly refuse to charge concerning
each constituent item mentioned by the declaration, and leave the
general question to the jury.

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HADLEY.
330.

331 °

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that a brakeman, who was killed by a rear-end collision while
in the caboose df a standing train, would have escaped if he had
been at his post to give warning, as his duty required, does not make
his neglect the only proximate cause of his death, if the collision was
due also to negligent operation of the train coming from behind.
The case is within the terms of Employers' Liability Act, § 1.
In an action under the Employers' Liability Act, where the evidence
is such as to justify the jury in treating the employee's contributory
negligence as slight, or inconsequential in its effects, the jury may
properly find that nothing substantial should be deducted on account
of it from the damages; and the fact that the verdict is excessive
will not warrant an assumption that, in making such finding, the
jury disobeyed the court's instructions on apportionment.
Where the state trial and supreme courts cut down an excessive verdict
upon the assumption that the excess was due to the jury's failure to
follow instructions on diminution of damages for contributory negligence, held, the assumption not being justified by the-record, that
tlieii action did not invade the province of the jury under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, but was merely in exercise of their
power to require a remittitur.
99 Nebraska, 349, affirmed.

Tnn case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. N. H. Loomis, with whomMr. A. G. E/lick was on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John J. Halligan,with whom Mr. Wesley T. Wilcox,
Mr. C. Petrus Peterson, Mr. Robert W. Devoe and Mr.
Joseph M. Swenson were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
AIR. JUSTICE HOiMs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 140, 35 Stat. 65, for causing the death of Cradit, the plaintiff's (the defendant in
error's) intestate. The case was brought to this Court
before the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726,

. 332

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

and with the exception of one or two matters that need
a word, presents only the ordinary questions of negligence
that it is not our practice to discuss at length.
The deceased was a brakeman on an eastbound freight
train known as Extra 504 East. At Dix, in Nebraska, it
was overtaken by another eastbound train known as
Extra 501 East. There is a single track from Dix to Mile
Post 426, 17 miles distant, and train 504 went ahead to
this latter point. Train 501 followed for about half the
distance to Potter and was held there until 504 had reached
Mile Post 426, seven miles further on, when 501 was
started on again, leaving its conductor there. But an
Extra 510 West had broken down at Mile Post 426 and
the train dispatcher at Sidney, about twelve miles still
further east, ordered train 504 to take the disabled engine of 510 back to Sidney. The engineer asked the dispatcher to allow 504 to go on and to let 501, when it came
up, take back the engine of 510, but it was refused. No.
501 came up, ran into 504 and killed Cradit and some
others. The plaintiff says that the accident was due to
at least contributory negligence of the railroad-the defendant that it was not negligent, that Cradit would not
have been killed if he had done his duty and had gone back
to warn the following train by lights, torpedoes, &c., instead of remaining in the caboose, as he did, and that
this was the proximate cause of his death.
On the question of its negligence the defendant undertook to split up the charge into items mentioned in the
declaration as constituent elements and to ask a ruling
as to each. But the whole may be greater than the sum
of its parts, and the Court was justified in leaving the
general question to the jury if it thought that the defendant should not be allowed to take the bundle apart and
break the sticks separately, and if the defendant's conduct viewed as a whole warranted a finding of neglect.
Upon that point there can be no question. We are not

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HADLEY.
330.

Opinion of the Court.

left to the mere happening of the accident. There were
block signals working on the road that gave automatic
warning of danger to 501, and which it was negligent to
pass, seen or unseen, as the engine crew knew where they
were and that another train was not far ahead. There
was a snow storm raging which the jury might have found
to have been of unprecedented violence, and it was open
to them to find in view of circumstances unnecessary to
detail that the dispatcher ought not to have sent out
Extra 510 West as he did and that he was grossly wrong
in not allowing 504 to come in and in not leaving it to
501 to bring back the disabled engine. It might have
been found improper to leave the conductor of 501 at
Potter. It is superfluous to say more upon this point.
But it is said that in any view of the defendant's conduct the only proximate cause of Cradit's death was his
own neglect of duty. But if the railroad company was
negligent it was negligent at the very moment of its final
act. It ran one train into another when if it had done
its duty neither train would have been at that place.
Its conduct was as near to the result as that of Cradit.
We do not mean that the negligence of Cradit was not
contributory. We must look at the situation as a practical unit rather than enquire into a purely logical priority.
But even.if Cradit's negligence should be deemed the
logical last, it would be emptying the statute of its meaning to say that his death did not "result in part from the
negligence of any of the employees" of the road. Act 6f
April 22, 1908, c. 149, § 1, 35 Stat. 65. In Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444, it appeared that the only
negligence connected with the death was that of the brakeman who was killed.
The Court after instructing the jury that Cradit assumed the ordinary risks of his employment, but not extraordinary ones, in a form that is not open to criticism
here, instructed them further that he was guilty of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

tributory negligence, and that, under the statute, if the
jury found it necessary to consider that defence, his
negligence was to go by way of diminution of damages in
proportions explained. The jury in answer to a question found that nothing should be deducted for the negligence of the deceased, and found a verdict for $25,000,
which was cut down to $15,000 by the trial Court, and
to $13,500 by the Supreme Court. There were intimations that the jury disregarded the instructions of the
Court and on that footing the defendant claims the right
to a new trial in order that the jury may determine the
proper amount to be deducted, since that was a matter
that the Court had no right to decide. But however
the belief that the jury had disregarded the instructions
may have influenced the mind of the Court, we perceive
no legal warrant for the assumption. The account of
the weather and other circumstances on the plaintiff's
side made it possible for the jury to believe that Cradit's
duty was so nearly impossible of performance that no
substantial allowance should be made on that account.
It does not appear that his superior, the conductor, who
was in the caboose with him, required him to perform
the task. And since the finding was possible on the evidence it cannot be attributed to disregard of duty. The
Court had the right to require a remittitur if it thought,
as naturally it did, that the verdict was too high. Beyond the question of attributing misconduct to the jury
we are not concerned to inquire whether its reasons were
right or wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

