110

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS OF GUNSBURG, ET AL .
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 164.

Argued January 28, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

An oil and gas lease of the restricted land of a Creek full-blood is not
valid without approval by the Secretary of the Interior. Act of
May 27, 1908, ยง 2, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312.
When there are two such leases in conflict, one of which has been
approved by the Secretary, the unsuccessful claimant, to charge his
adversary as trustee, must show that, as matter of law, the Secretary
erred both in approving the one lease and in refusing to approve the
other.
And the facts that the plaintiff's lease was the first filed with the Union
Agency, at Muskogee, and that it was recorded with the county
register of deeds whereas defendant's was not; and any constructive
notice coming from such filings and recordations under the Acts of
March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1026, and April 26, 1906, c. 1876,
34 Stat. 145, and Arkansas statutes in force in the Indian Territory;
and the effect of a rule of the Secretary of the Interior providing for
the filing of leases within thirty days of execution-are all matters
beside the case, where it does not appear affirmatively that the
Secretary would have approved the plaintiff's lease if he had refused
approval of the defendant's.
While the law does not vest arbitrary power ini the Secretary, his approval of such leases rests in the exercise of his discretion; he may
consider the advantages and disadvantages to the Indian and grant
or withhold approval as his judgment may dictate-the courts may
interfere to protect the rights of others only when they are invaded
by clearly unauthorized action.
Action of the Secretary within his discretionary power is not vitiated
by the fact that the reasons assigned in his discussion of the case
when before him were not wholly sound.
226 Fed. Rep. 176, affirmed.

TaEm case is stated in the opinion.

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG.
110.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Frank Hagerman,with whom Mr. James W. Zevely,
Mr. Richard W. Stoutz, Mr. James M. Givens, Mr. Jacob
B. Furry and Mr. Edward C. Motter were on the briefs, for
appellant:
The law required the leases to plaintiff and defendants
to be filed, recorded and approved by the Secretary of the
Interior. When this was done, the instrument related
back to the time of its execution.
Plaintiff's lease was executed March 28, 1912, filed with
the Indian Commissioner on March 30, 1912, and recorded April 1, 1912. Defendants' lease, though executed
March 20, 1912, was never filed till April 5, 1912, and was
never at any time recorded.
The Department erroneously construed its Rule 2 to
permit defendants to have full thirty days within which
to file their unrecorded lease and, solely because filed
within that time, to require its approval as against that
of plaintiff. This construction was erroneous, for that
the rule was at most a mere limitation upon the time
within which the lessee, as between himself and the Government, should be required to ask for the approval of
his lease. If withij that time he failed to file, he, by his
own act, thereby deprived himself of any right even to
ask an approval. The effect of the failure to file or record
is left to the provisions of the law. So construed, it answers a good purpose, is a lawful exercise of power and.
wholly consistent with the law. While the Act of May 27,
1908, 35 Stat. 312, provides for the approval by the Secretary "under rules and regulations" promulgated by
him, this only means such as are reasonable and not in
conflict or inconsistent with the law.
The Act of March 1, 1907, requiring the lease to be filed
(34 Stat. 1026), simply made the filing constructive notice;
for without notice, either actual or constructive, no subsequent bona fide purchaser could be affected. This
statute fixed no time for the filing. It made that act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

246 U. S.

whenever done, the equivalent of notice. If, however,
time for that purpose were implied, as it should not be,
it could only, at most, be a reasonable period. Thirty
days' delay, as required by the original rule, was unreasonable. So it has been frequently decided under statutes
requiring recording within a reasonable time.
Even if the rule be construed as postponing the time for
filing, this in nowise extended the time for recording.
There was no attempt below to deal with the necessity of
recording. Yet the defendants' lease, if not recorded, was,
under the law, not valid against the plaintiff. Shulthis v.
v. McDougal, 170 Fed. Rep. 529; Lomax v. Pickering, 173
U. S. 26, 48. So, even if there was an excuse for the failure
promptly to file the lease, which there was not, there was
none for the neglect to record.
If, as here, the Secretary erred, as a matter of law, his
act can be challenged by a bill of the character herein filed.
The Secretary rejected plaintiff's lease on the sole
ground that a departmental rule gave defendants thirty
days in which to file their lease, during which time plaintiff could acquire no interest. It is clear but for this construction of the law he would have received the lease
which was awarded to defendants. '
The Secretary here actually exercised his discretion by
finding that both leases were in all respects satisfactory
in form, properly secured and executed by proper lessees.
Everything was decided which was necessary to a complete technical approval of each lease. The only reason
for not calling it an actual approval of plaintiff's was the
mistaken notion that the law gave defendants thirty
days in which to file theirs, and during that period plaintiff was, as against them, incapacitated. from acquiring
any right. The effect of his finding was to approve plaintiff's lease. There can be an approval in an informal
way, even a writing not always being necessary. U. S.
Bank v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 90.

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG.
110.

113

Opinion of the Court.

The sole purpose of the approval was t6 protect the
Indian against improvidence (Shulhisv. McDougal,supra;
Pickeringv. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310, 316; Moore v. Sawyer,
167 Fed. Rep. 826, 834), not to decide legal rights between
conflicting claimants. Therefore, the question really is,
whether the Department practically approved plaintiff's
lease to the extent necessary to "protect the Indian against
the improvident disposition of his property." A question
of priority arose solely as between the respective lessees.
This the Secretary assumed to decide. He then decided
it erroneously.
Plaintiff was an innocent purchaser. But, whether he
was or not, his rights, as such, and as against another
lessee, could not be determined by the Secretary.
Mr. George S. Ramsey, with whom Mr. John M. Chick,
Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser, Mr.
Vilard Martin and Mr. J. Berry King were on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. Jusric. DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a contest between holders of oil and gas leases
made by one Eastman Richard, a full-blood Creek Indian,
the owner by patent of the west half of the northeast
quarter of section 5 of township 17 N. range 7 E., in Creek
County, Oklahoma. . Richard mare a lease of the west
one-half of the quarter to David Gunsburg and the Southwestern Petroleum Company on March 20, 1912. This
lease was not filed for record with the Indian Agency
until April 5, 1912, nor was it recorded with the Register
of Deeds for Creek County, Oklahoma. On March 28,
1912, Richard made a like lease for the same premises to the appellant, William J. Anicker, which was
filed with the Indian Agency on March 30, 1912, and on
April 1, 1912, was filed for record with the Register of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Deeds for Creek County, Oklahoma. It thus appears
that the lease to Gunsburg and the Southwestern Petroleum Company was earlier than the one to Anicker but
the latter was first recorded. Upon hearing upon these
conflicting leases the United States Indian Superintendent
recommended the approval of the Gunsburg and Southwestern Petroleum Company lease.
After referring to the dates of the leases and the time
of filing the same for record, the superintendent said:
"The Department has uniformly held in such cases that
where a lease is filed, with the papers necessary for completion of same, within thirty days, that the date of execution is the date from which the priority of the lease is
determined.
"To my mind this is the only reasonable construction
of the regulations, so long as thirty days or any other
period is allowed within which to file a lease. But it is
contended on behalf of Mr. Anicker that the lease to Gunsburg and the Southwestern Petroleum Company was obtained by fraud. To this contention I cannot agree for
the reason that this lease and the lease to Messrs. Funk
& Riter were presented to this office on the date of execution, fully explained by Mr. William Kremer, Asst. Chief
Clerk, a notary in this office, and acknowledged by the
lessor. This contention the attorneys for Mr. Anicker
were unable to support in their cross-examination of Eastman Richard, although it was apparent at that time that
the lessor did not remember the names of the lessees.
He was, however, confident that he had leased his entire
allotment at that time, and it appears from Mr. Kremer's
testimony, May 14, 1912, page 23, that the lease was
fully explained to the lessor, as is done in all cases where
leases are acknowledged before a notary in the employ
of this office, and considering the numerous declarations
and affidavits submitted bearing the lessor's signature in
connection with this case, showing a change of attitude

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG.
110.

Opinion of the Court.

upon every occasion approached in connection with
these leases, and his lack of business ability, I am not incl:ned to entertain any doubt as to the fact that the lease
was fully explained to him upon the date of execution
thereof, notwithstanding his uncertainty at the hearing
on May 13th and 14th as to the name of the lessee.
"It is further contended, in behalf of Mr. Anicker, that
he should be considered prior lessee for the reason that
his lease was made prior to the time the lease of Gunsburg
and the Southwestern Petroleum Company was filed at
the Union Agency or elsewhere, and that the same was
not only filed in the county wherein the land is situate,
but also filed at Union Agency at a date prior to the date
upon which the lease to Gunsburg and the Southwestern
Petroleum Company was received.
"It is also contended that he had no actual notice, and
an attempt has been made to show that the lessor had
conveyed the idea to Mr. Anicker or his agent that the
only lease he had executed when approached by Mr. Anicker, was the lease in favor of the Eastern Oil Company.
It will be noted in the testimony that an unsuccessful effort was made to secure an admission from Eastman Richard that would corroborate this contention.
"For the purposes of this case I do not consider it necessary to determine at this time whether or not the evidence at hand shows that.such representations were made
by the lessor; even admitting that the lessee was misled
by the lessor, the regulations which provide thirty days
within which a lease may be filed, if binding upon parties
interested in securing leases, should be considered as heretofore, as giving that lease priority which bears the prior
date of execution and is filed with the papers required,
within the 30-day period.
"An examination of the lease to David Gunsburg and
the Southwestern Petroleum Company discloses the fact
that this lease was filed within thirty days, in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

with the regulations, and that the same was executed
prior to the lease in favor of Mr. Anicker. Concerning
the contention of Mt. Anicker.that the date of filing should
be regarded as the date of priority, which carries with it
the contention that the regulations of the Secretary of
the Interior allowing thirty days within which to file a
lease is not within the power conferred on the Secretary of the Interior, under the law, which provides in
part (Section 2, Act of Congress of May 27, 1908 [35
Stat. L. 312]): 'That leases of restricted lands for oil and
gas mining purposes

. . . may be made with the ap-

proval of the Secretary of the Interior under rules and
regulations provided by the Secretary of the Interior and
not otherwise."'
After upholding the right of the Secretary of the Interior to make rules and regulations the superintendent
further said:
"The Secretary clearly having the right to fix a reasonable period within which time lessees may and must file
their leases for approval, it follows that if such a regulation is made all lessees must receive the same treatment,
both as to the benefits or privileges of taking the time allowed, or on the contrary the penalty, if they fail to comply with the regulation. If this policy was not followed,
the rule might as well be abolished, but this would lead to
many opportunities of double dealing on behalf of both
lessees and lessors. It being almost a physical impossibility to execute, complete the papers and file leases simultaneously, a reasonable time must be given. The
thirty-day rule has been in effect since the early days of
oil lease development in the Five Tribes and persons taking leases almost universally understand that the date of
the lease, if filed within the thirty-day period, governs,
instead of the date of filing.".

"The lease of Mr. Anicker must also be disapproved

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG.
110. -Opinion

of the Court.

not because he was in any way delinquent himself, but because of the prior lease of David Gunsburg and the Southwestern Petroleum Company filed with all papers required within even a shorter period than that allowed by
the Department."
The superintendent concluded that the lease in favor
of Anicker should be disapproved, and the lease to Gunsburg and Southwestern Petroleum Company should be
approved.
Upon hearing before the First Assistant Secretary of
the Interior, that officer reached a like conclusion. A motion to reconsider was denied, the Secretary concluding:
"If there were any advantage in the prior filing of a
lease which was entered into and executed after another
lease, both having been filed at the agency within the
time required by regulation, Anicker would have that
advantage. The Act of March 1,- 1907 (34 Stat. 1026),
makes the filing at Union Agency legal notice. Anicker's
lease is stamped as filed at the Agency March 30, 1912.
Until approved by the Secretary,- it was not a completed
instrument and the fact of its having been recorded in a
county office can not estop the Secretary from finding
that another lease regularly executed and filed is more for
the allottee's interest and better entitled to approval."
The plaintiff's bill was filed upon the theory that the
lease to Gunsburg and Southwestern Petroleum Company
had been approved by the Secretary by mistake of law,
and that, but for the mistake, the lease of plaintiff would
have been approved, and the bill sought to charge
the defendants as trustees for the plaintiff, and to require an assignment of the lease to him. The District
Court held against complainant, and that decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 226 Fed.
Rep. 176.
In order to maintain a suit of this sort the complainant
must establish not only that the action of the Secretary

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

was wrong in approving the other lease, but that the
complainant was himself entitled to an approval of his
lease, and that it was refused to him because of an erroneous ruling of law by the Secretary. Bohall v. Dilla,
114 U. S. 47.
The statutes of the United States provide:
Section 20 of the Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 145:
"All leases and rental contracts, except leases and rental
contracts for not exceeding one year for agricultural purposes for lands other than homesteads, of full-blood allottees of the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, Creek, and
Seminole tribes shall be in writing and subject to approval
by the Secretary of the Interior and shall be absolutely
void and of no effect without such approval:
Providedfurther, That all leases entered into for a period
of more than one year shall be recorded in conformity to
the law applicable to recording instruments now in force
in said Indian Territory."
Section 2 of the Act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312:
"That leases of restricted lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes, . . . may be made, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior, under rules and regulations provided by the Secretary of the Interior, and not
otherwise.
The Act of March 1, 1907, 34 Stat. 1026: "The filing
heretofore or hereafter of any lease in the office of the
United States Indian agent, Union Agency, Muskogee,
Indian Territory, shall be deemed constructive notice."
Under the authority to make rules the Secretary of the
Interior provided:
"All leases shall be in quadruplicate, and, with the papers required, shall be filed within thirty days from and
after the date of execution by the lessor with the United
States Indian Agent at Union Agency, Muskogee, Oklahoma."
Whatever may be the effect of this rule providing for

ANICKER v. GUNSBURG.
110.

Opinion of the Court.

the filing of leases within thirty days from and after their
execution, in view of the requirements of the statutes, the
lease can have no validity without the Secretary's approval. The protection of the Indian's rights is left to
the Indian Bureau of which the Secretary is the head, and
the courts may only interfere to protect the rights of others
when they are invaded by clearly unauthorized action.
Much stress is placed in argument upon the provisions
of ยง 20 of the Act of April 26, 1906, requiring leases
entered into for a period of more than one year to be recorded in conformity with the law requiring the recording of conveyances in force in the Territory; and upon the
Act of March 1, 1907, providing that the filing of the
lease in the office of the Indian Agency shall be deemed
constructive notice. An elaborate argument is based on
these requirements, and the statutes of Arkansas in force
in the Territory are set out in the brief, which, it is contended, show the necessity of recording such instruments
in order to give constructive notice to persons dealing
with the title. But these requirements do not relieve the
appellant of the primary difficulty of maintaining this
suit; the lack of a showing that his lease would have been
approved but for a mistake of law which resulted in the
approval of the lease to another.
The statute is plain in its provisions-that no lease, of
the character here in question, can be valid without the
approval of the Secretary. Such approval rests in the
exercise of his discretion; unquestionably this authority
was given to him for the protection of Indians against
their own improvidence and the designs of those who
would obtain their property for inadequate compensation.
It is also true that the law does not vest arbitrary authority in the Secretary of the Interior. But it does give him
power to consider the advantages and disadvantages of the
lease presented for his action, and to grant or withhold
approval as his judgment may dictate.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

There is nothing in this record to show that approval
of the appellant's lease has been given by the Secretary
as required by the statute. On the contrary, it appears
that the Secretary approved another lease of the same
land, and has withheld his approval of the one under
which the appellant claims. The Secretary declares in
substance in the finding which we have quoted, being his
final action in the case, that the prior recording of one
lease does not abridge his authority to find that another
lease, regularly executed and filed, is more to the allottee's
interest and better entitled to approval. It does not appear that had he disapproved the Gunsburg lease, he
would have approved the one to appellant, and, until
this affirmatively appears, appellant has no standing
which permits a court by its decree to award the leasehold
to him.
We find nothing in this record to indicate that the Secretary of the Interior has exceeded the authority which
the law vests in him. The fact that he has given reasons
in the discussion of the case, which might not in all respects meet with approval, does not deprive him of authority to exercise the discretionary power with which by
statute he is invested. United States ex. rel. West v.
Hitchcock, 205 I. S. 80, 85, 86.
It follows that the decree of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

