NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. WISMER.
Opinion of the Court.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WISMER, SUBSTITUTED FOR WISMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 152. Argued January 28, 29, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

Lands opposite the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
constituting an Indian reservation when the line was definitely
located, were not embraced in the grant of odd numbered sections
made to the company by the Act of July 2, 1864, o. 217, 13 Stat. 365.
A reservation of public lands for and exclusively devoted to the occupancy of a tribe of Indians, made under the direction and with the
approval of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and expressly or
tacitly approved by the Secretary of the Interior, held valid and
effectual to exclude the lands from the Northern Pacific grant, although not formally sanctioned by the President until after the
railroad had filed its plat of definite location.
230 Fed. Rep. 591, affirmed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. CharlesDonnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralKearful for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTcC CIL.K:E delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit is one in ejectment by the Northern Pacific
Railway Company to recover possession of eighty acres
of land (the title to 64,000 acres depends upon the decision), and it is here on writ of error to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming that of the
District Court in favor of the defendant.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The principles of law applicable to the case are few and
well settled and the docision of it depends upon the interpretation to be given to stipulated facts.
The plaintiff in error is the successor in interest to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and the defendant
in error, substituted for the deceased defendant, George F.
Wismer, claims to own the land in controversy by virtue
of a homestead entry made in 1910, upon which a patent
was issued in 1913.
By act of Congress dated July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365,
there was granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Conpany, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of its
line to the Pacific Coast, twenty alternate odd-numbered
sections of land per mile on each side of the railroad line,
which it, should locate and adopt, within the boundaries
of any Territory and ten alternate odd-numbered sections
per mile on each side of the railroad line, which it should
adopt, within the boundaries of any State. The grant
embraces only lands to which, "the United States have
full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from predmption, or other claims or rights,
at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed."
On October 4, 1880, the Railroad Company definitely
located the position of its line opposite the land in controversy and filed a plat thereof, as required by law, and
it is claimed that upon the filing of this plat the company
became entitled to the lands granted, including those of
the defendant in error, as of July 2, 1864, the date of the
granting act of Congress..
The claim of the defendant in error, which prevailed in
each of the lower courts, is that the land in controversy
was reserved or otherwise appropriated, within the meaning of the terms of the grant to the Railroad Company of
1864, quoted above, at the time this part of the line of the
railroad was definitely located, for the reason that it was
then within an Indian Reservation, or was subject to an

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. WISMER.
283.

Opinion of the Court.

Indian claim, which prevented the grant attaching to it,
by virtue of the following facts, which we condense from
the stipulation between the parties.
Prior to August 16, 1877, bands of Indians of the Spokane and other tribes occupied, for hunting and fishing,
the extensive,territory now comprising the eastern part
of the State of Washington, in which they had not then
ceded to the United States any part of their rights. In
the spring of that year certain of these Indian 'tribes
commenced hostilities against the white settlers which
resulted in war with the United States, in which they were
urging the Spokane tribe, then at peace, to join.
On May 7, 1877, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
directed Col. E.C. Watkins, an Indian Inspector, in charge
of all agencies in Washington Territory, to give his
"special attention" to the subject of gathering the roving
Indians "upon permanent reservations," with the result
that on August 16, 17, 18, 1877, a Council was held at
Spokane Falls, Washington, between the Chiefs. and Headmen of the Spokane tribe of Indians and Colonel Watkins,
acting "in his official capacity as Indian Inspector, repiesenting the Department of the Interior," and General
Frank Wheaton, and Captain M. C. Wilkinson, of the
United States Army, representing the Department of War.
It is expressly stipulated "that for the purpose of collecting the said Indians belonging to the said tribe (the
Spokane tribe) on a reservation," and of inducing them:
to establish homes and to engage in agricultural pursuits;
to extinguish their title "to all other lands not within the
said reservation" and to remain at peace with the United
States, the agreement following was signed by the representatives of the Government of the United States and
the Chiefs and Headmen of the tribe who attended the
Council, viz:
"IN COUNCIL AT SpoxAN FALLs, W. T. August 18th,
1877.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

"We, the undersigned Chiefs and head men of the Spokane Tribe of Indians for ourselves and our people hereby
agree to accept the following described land for our reservation: Beginning at the source of the Chimokan Creek
in Washington Territory, thence down said creek to the
Spokane River, thence down said River to the Columbia
River, thence up the Columbia River to the mouth of
Nimchin Creek, thence easterly to the place of beginning.
"And we do further agree to go upon the same by the
first of November next with a view of establishing our
permanent homes thereon and engaging in agricultural
pursuits. We hereby renew our friendly relations with
the whites and promise to remain at peace with the Government and abide by all laws of the same, and obey the
orders of the Indian Bureau and the officers acting thereunder."
On August 23 Col. Watkins reported the result of the
Council to his superior officer, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, and sent him a copy of the executed agreement,
with his recommendation that the territory described
therein should be set apart and reserved for the Spokane
tribe.
Immediately after the signing of this agreement and
prior to November 14th of the same year, Col. Watkins,
still "acting in his official capacity, located such of the
said Spokane Indians as were not already residing thereon
upon said reservation" described in the agreement, and
on November 26, 1877, he reported this action to his
superior, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who communicated it to the Secretary of the Interior, with his approval, on December 29, 1877, who, in turn, communicated
it to the United States Senate on January 23, 1878.
The Indians remained at peace with the United States
and continued in the use and occupancy of the lands
described in the agreement and claimed the same "as their
reservation" until the year 1910.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. WISMER.
283.

Opinion of the Court.

The encroachment of squatters upon the land thus reserved resulted in an order by Brigadier General Howard
on September 3, 1880, directing that the military force
under his command should protect the territory described
in the agreement of August, 1877, against settlement by
others than the Spokane Indians until survey of the land
should be made or until further instructions.
On January 18, 1881, President Hayes, by Executive
Order, formally set aside and reserved the territory described in the agreement of August, 1877, for the use hnd
occupancy of the Spokane Indians.
The Indians occupied the reservation until after the
Act of May 29, 1908, was passed (35 Stat. 458) directing
that the Secretary of the Interior should cause allotments
to be made, under the allotment laws, to all Indians having
tribal rights and belonging to the Spokane Indian Reservation who had not theretofore received allotments, and
providing that the surplus agricultural lands should be
opened for settlement and entry under the homestead
laws, and that the net proceeds derived from the sale of
such lands should be deposited in the United States
Treasury to the credit of the Indians of the Spokane
Reservation. It was under the provisions of this act that
the decedent of the defendant in error obtained his patent.
This summary of the stipulated facts points to the inevitable decision of the case.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, was charged with the
management of all Indian affairs and matters arising out
of Indian relations (Rev. Stats., §§ 441, 463, 2058, 2149),
and clearly he commissioned Col. Watkins in advance to
treat with the Spokane tribe for the setting apart to them
of a permanent reservation through an agreement such
as that of August, 1877. The plaintiff in error concedes,
as it must, that if the Secretary of the Interior approved
the action taken by Colonel Watkins prior to the filing

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

of the plat of its line on October 4, 1880, the reservation
must be considered as lawfully established and the lands
thereby removed beyond the scope of the grant to the
Railroad Company. (Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 512;
Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755, 769; Wood v. Beach,
156 U. S. 548; United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S.
459; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. United
States, 244 U. S. 351, 357.) And reservations made by
heads of bureaus, such as the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
in the administration of the matters committed to their
charge, stand upon the same footing where the Secretary
of the Interior is informed of their action and where, as in
this case, he either expressly or tacitly approves the same.
Spencer v. McDougal, 159 U. S. 62.
Such being the law, we cannot doubt that the sound
inference from the stipulated facts as we have stated
them is that, with full understanding of the situation the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs approved the action of Colonel Watkins not
later, certainly, than the sending of his report to the Senate on January 23, 1878, which was almost three years
prior to the filing of the railway company's plat, and that
the Executive Order of the President on January 18, 1881,
simply continued and gave formal sanction to what had
been done before.
That the reservation was in fact made and the lands
exclusively devoted to the use of the Indians from the
date of the agreement of August, 1877, is beyond controversy; that no objection was ever made by his superiors
to the action taken by Colonel Watkins is equally clear,
and to hold that, for want of a formal approval by the
Secretary of the Interior, all of the conduct of the Government and of the Indians in making and ratifying and in
good faith carrying out the agreement between* them,
even to the extent of protecting the reservation by mil-

CISSNA v. TENNESSEE.
283.

Syllabus.

itary forces from intrusion, is without effect, would be to
subordinate the realities of the situation to mere form,
for the delay in the issuing of the formal Executive Order
of the President under the circumstances can be attributed
only to the exigencies of the public business;-by his representative, the Secretary of the Interior, he had approved
the setting apart of the lands to the use of the Indians
almost three years before.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
affirmed for the reason that the Spokane Indian Reservation was lawfully created prior to the fMling of the plat
of the line of the plaintiff company on October 4th, 1880.
Affirmed.

CISSNA v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 20. Argued November 10, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
December 11, 1916; reargued October 9, 10, 1917.-Decided March 11,
1918.
If the state supreme court treats federal questions as necessarily involved and to reach its judgment necessarily decides them adversely
to the plaintiff in error, this court has jurisdiction to review them,
although not specially characterized as federal questions by the
plaintiff in error in the state courts.
This court has jurisdiction to review a judgment of the supreme court
of a State where the issues as to whether lands in question were
owned by the State, and whether they, and alleged trespasses upon
them, were within the State and so within the state court's jurisdiction, were determined affirmatively through a location of the state
boundary based upon interpretation of various treaties and acts of
Congress.
Whether two States of the Union, either by long acquiescence in a

