BETHLEHEM STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 523
519.

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court erred in sustaining the demurrer. Its
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

BETHLEHE~M STEEL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 191. Argued March 15, 1918.-Decided April 15, 1918.
Having given bond to secure a contract with the Navy Department,
claimant paid premiums after alleged compliance with the condition,
and sued to recover the amount, contending that the Secretary of
the Navy should have canceled the bond and notified the surety.
It not appearing that claimant had bound itself to continue paying
premiums until the Secretary so acted, held, that the payment was
voluntary and gave no cause of action in the Court of Claims.

51 Ct. Clms. 394, affirmed.
THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Hayden for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the
United States.

Ma. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of, the
court.
The Bethlehem Steel Company entered into a contract,
dated September 27, 1909, with the United States to manufacture and deliver for the Navy large quantities of several
groups of armor plates, and agreed to replace any accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

armor which should prove defective within six months
after it had been fastened on the ship. The contract required the company to furnish a bond with sureties in a
sum equal to ten per cent. of the total cost of all groups,
and provided that "at the end of each calendar year the
amount of said bond may be reduced to correspond to
the estimated cost of armor then undelivered." The bond
was furnished; and delivery of all the armor originally
specified was completed May 2, 1911. But onMarch 26,
1912, plates aggregating at cost prices more than the penalty of the bond were found to be defective, and a part of
this was not replaced until November 22, 1912. On January 27, 1912, the company formally requested the Secretary of the Navy to cancel the bond and notify the surety,
but he refused to do so except upon certain conditions which
were not complied with until May 15,1912, when the bond
was canceled. The company had expended $5,509.62 in
payment of premiums on the bond from May 3, 1911,
until May 15, 1912, and demanded reimbursement by the
Government. Payment being refused, suit was brought
in the Court of Claims to recover this amount and also
a balance of $3,170.69 for plate delivered. Judgment
for the latter sum was entered; but the court held that
the company was not entitled to recover for the premiums paid. The case comes here under ยง 242 of the Judicial Code.
The lower court held that the bond covered merely
the original delivery of the armor plate and not the replacement of defective plates; but it refused recovery of
the amount paid for premiums after May 3, 1911, on the
ground that the payment thereof was voluntary, because
the condition of the bond had then been complied with.
The Government contends that the bond covered the
replacement also; that the contract made reduction of
the bond permissive, not mandatory; and that the Secretary was, in any event, under no obligation to cancel the

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. HOLLOWAY.
523.

525

Syllabus.

bond prior to the request made January 27, 1912. We
have no occasion to consider any of these contentions.
It nowhere appears that the company had bound itself
to continue to pay premiums until the Secretary canceled
the bond and gave the surety notice thereof. So far as
disclosed by the record, the payment of premiums was
voluntary. The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTicmE McKNNA dissents.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. HOLLOWAY, ADMINISTRATOR OF
HOLLOWAY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 209. Submitted March 15, 1918.--Decided April 15, 1918.
In an action under the Employers' Liability Act on behalf of the
widow of a deceased employee, an instruction that the measure of
damages should be such as would fairly and reasonably compensate
her for the loss of pecuniary benefits she might reasonably have
received but for her husband's death, held correct, as a general
instruction, leaving to the defendant the right to have it supplemented by another indicating that, in estimating the amount of
such compensation, future benefits must be considered at their
present value.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, defendant is not entitled to have
the jury instructed, as matter of law, that the value of money to
the beneficiary should be measured by a specific (the legal) rate
of interest, or that the duration of future benefits could not have
exceeded the life expectancy of the deceased employee, as given
by an actuarial table.
Whether the state court has obeyed a local rule of practice requiring

