STADELMAN v. MINER.
Opinion of the Court.

STADELMAN ET AL. v. MINER ET AL.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 644. Petition for rehearing. Leave to file granted, petition allowed
and former dismissal vacated March 18, 1918.
The ease having been dismissed for want of a federal question, the
court grants leave to file, and treats as filed, a petition for rehearing
and orders that the case stand for consideration on the prior submission, the fact that a federal question was raised and decided on a
former hearing in the state court being shown by the official report of
its opinion and the failure of counsel to include that opinion in the
record, as should have been done, or to refer to the decision in their
briefs and arguments, being due to excusable inadvertence.

Mr. John M. Gearin and Mr. Harry G. Hoy, for plaintiffs in error, in support of the petition.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by MR.
CHEMF JUSTICE WMTE.

There being nothing in the record to establish that the
federal question relied upon was raised, considered or decided below, and indeed it appearing so far as the record
is concerned that the federal question was for the first
time stated in the assignments made for the purpose of
the writ of error from this court, the case was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction upon authorities cited. 245 U.
S. 636. On this application it is stated that in a previous
hearing of the case in the court below the federal question relied upon in this court was pressed and moreover was expressly decided, reference being made to the
opinion so showing reported in 83 Oregon, 351. The application for leave prays that the clerk below ,be directed

I See post, 544.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

to certify the opinion as part of the record and thus
correct the inadvertence in not having previously included it and the oversight of counsel in not having referred to it in their briefs or arguments as affording in
this court the basis of authority to review.
As the opinion referred to establishes that the federal question was considered and decided and as that opinion should have properly been included in the record,
it follows that if the mistake of the parties in failing to
include or refer to it be overlooked and corrected,
which we think should be done, it would result also
that the ground upon which the order of dismissal was
made would be without foundation and therefore should
be set aside. To that end leave to file the petition is
granted and, acting upon it as filed, our former judgment
of dismissal will be set aside and the case will stand for
consideration under the prior submission. Moreover,
for the purpose of disposing of the cause, the opinion of
the court below rendered on the previous hearing will be
considered as part of the record without further formal
order to the court below to supply the same.
And it is so ordered.

ROCK SPRING DISTILLING COMPANY ET AL. v.
W. A. GAINES & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 58. Argued January 31, February 1, 1918.-Decided March 18, 1918.

Under the common law and the federal registration statute (February
20, 1905, c. 592, 33 Stat. 724) a trademark for one variety of goods
includes other varieties of the same species.
An adjudication that, as against B, A is entitled, by prior appropria-

