BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
255.

Syllabus.

trict Court was against the evidence. 153 Pac. Rep.
1173. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the
lower court and a petition for rehearing was denied without a statement of reasons. No federal question had
been raised in the District Court, nor apparently up to
that time in the Supreme Court. But an application
was then made for leave to file a second petition for rehearing; and in it proponents set up, among others, the
claim that because Bruner was a full-blood Creek Indian
"the executioji of said will and the legal effect thereof
and the necessity or non-necessity of the probation of
said will is thereby involved in this cause and presents
federal questions." We need not, however, consider this
contention. For since the Supreme Court rested its judgment upon a non-federal ground adequate to support it,
the existence of a federal question is of no significance.
Cuyahoga River Power Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U.
S. 300. And, besides, the attempt to raise it comes too
late. St. Louis & San Franciso R. R. Co. v. Shepherd,
240 U. S. 240. The writ of error is
Dismissed.

BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 171.

Argued January 30, 31, 1918.--Decided March 4, 1918.

The Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, and the bonds given
under it, must be construed liberally for the protection of those who
furnish labor or materials in the prosecution of public work.
The act is not limited in application to labor and materials directly
incorporated into the public work. The amendment of February 24,
1905, c. 778, 33 Stat: 811, does not change it in this respect.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

246 U. S.

Where, because of special circumstances, it was clearly indispensable
to the prosecution of a public work that the contractor supply board
to the laborers, and board was so supplied, exclusively in the work,
the price being deducted monthly from their wages, held, that
groceries and provisions furnished the contractor and so consumed
by the laborers were materials used "in the prosecution" of the
work, within the meaning of the aforesaid acts and the bond given
to secure the contract.
In the absence of special circumstances making the boarding of the
men a necessary and integral part of the work,--as where a contractor runs a boarding house as an independent enterprise, for
profit,-the case would be outside the statute.
228 Fed. Rep. 577, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John A. Cline for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John M. Garfield, for defendant in error, upon this
question, distinguished Lybrandt v. Eberly, 36 Pa. St. 347;
Bangs v. Berg, 82 Iowa, 350-353; Kollock v. Parcher,52
Wisconsin, 393; and cited Giant Powder Co. v. Oregon
Pacific Ry. Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 470; Sears v. Mahoney, 66
Fed. Rep. 860; Sica v. Kimpland, 93 Fed. Rep. 403;
Bartlett v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 231 U. S. 237;
s. c., 189 Fed. Rep. 339; Samuel Haitings Co. v. Lowrence,
236 Fed. Rep. 1006; Carson & Co. v. Shelton, 128 Kentucky, 248; Fergusonv. Despo, 8 Ind. App. 523; Parkinson
v. Alexander, 37 Kansas, 110; Dudley v. Toledo A. A. & N.
M. Ry. Co., 65 Michigan, 655; Pennsylvania Co. v. Mehaffey, 75 Ohio St. 432; Luttrell v. Knoxville, L. & J. R. Co.,
119 Tennessee, 492, as upholding the view that claims for
board, food or groceries for workmen are not within either
the act of Congress or state mechanics' lien statutes.
The men were paid in two mediums-money and food.
It is only claimed that these groceries-this food-entered
into the work contracted to be done by virtue of its having
been consumed by the laborers. Therefore the conclusion
of the Court of Appeals must be correct, i. e., that the

BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
257.

Opinion of the Court.

material furnished by Brogan only entered into the work
under prosecution by the contractor after being transmuted into the form of physical energy and that it became related to the government contract only indirectly
as labor and never as material. Brogan was not furnishing
materials adapted for the construction of any part of the
work to be performed under this contract, but loaned or
advanced on credit to the contractor certain commodities
with which the contractor paid his laborers. As found by
the court below, there is not now and never has been any
unpaid labor claim involved in this litigation. Money
loaned to meet the payroll of the contractor has never
been allowed as a lienable claim in the state courts. Nor
does it give rise to a claim under the federal act. Fidelity
NationalBank v. Rundle, 107 Fed. Rep. 227; Hardawayv.
NationalSurety Co., 211 U. S. 552. See also Parkinsonv.
Alexander, 37 Kansas, 110; Cadenasso v. Antonelle, 127
California, 382; City of Hamilton v. Stilwaught, 11 Oh.
C. C. 182; Evans v. Lower, 67 N. J. Eq. 232; Gaylord v.
Laughridge, 50 Texas, 57; Godeffroy v. Caldwell, 2 California, 489; Uralde Paving Co. v. City of New York, 191
N. Y. 244; McCormick v. Los Angeles Water Co., 40 California, 185.
MR. JusricE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action against the surety on a bond given
under the Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as
amended by the Act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat.
811. The claim of Brogan, an intervening petitioner, was
allowed by the District Court; but the judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and judgment
entered against him upon the undisputed facts (228 Fed.
Rep. 577). The case comes here on writ of errorunder
ยง241 of the Judicial Code.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The facts undisputed or as found by the lower court and
accepted by the Court of Appeals were these: The Standard Contracting Company undertook to deepen the channel in a portion of St. Mary's River, Michigan, located
"in a comparative wilderness at some distance from any
settlement. There were no hotels or boarding houses"
and the contractor "was compelled to provide board
and lodging for its laborers." Groceries and provisions of
the value $4,613.87, furnished, it by Brogan, were used by
the contractor in its boarding house; and were supplied
"in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract and the bond upon which this suit is based. They
were necessary to and wholly consumed in such work."
The number of men employed averaged 80. They were
"boarded" partly on the dredges, partly in tents supplied
by the contractor; all under an arrangement made with
the labor unions-by which the contractor was to board
the men and deduct therefor $22.50 a month from their
wages. The contract and the bond executed by the
National Surety Company bound the contractor to "make
full payment to all persons supplying him with labor or
materials in the prosecution of the work provided for in"
the contract.
The supplies furnished by Brogan under these circumstances were clearly used in the prosecution of the work,
just as supplies furnished for the soldiers' mess are used
in the prosecution of war. In each case the relation of
food to the work in hand is proximate. But the surety
contends that the words "in the prosecution of" the work
are not used in the bond and the act in their natural sense,
but should be given a conventional meaning so as to exclude labor and materials which contribute to construction only indirectly, as do the supplies consumed by a
contractor in operating his plant. In support of this position, attention is called to the fact that while the Act of
1894 provided that the bond should have "the additional

BROGAN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
257.

Opinion of the Court.

obligations that such contractor or contractors shall
promptly make payments to all persons supplying him
or them labor and materials in the prosecution of the
work;" and that suit might be brought and recovery had
upon this bond by any person who had supplied "labor
or materials for the prosecution of such work"; the Act
of 1905 specified that recovery could be had by the persons
who had "furnished labor or materials used in the construction or repair" of the work. But the change in phraseology is not significant. The purpose of the amendment
was merely to secure to the United States preference over
others in the satisfaction of its claim against the contractor. Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 218.
See Report of Committee on H. R. 13,626, 58th Cong.,
2d sess., No. 2360. It was pointed out in Mankin v.
Ludowici-CeladonCo., 215 U. S.533, 538, that "In respect
to the condition of the bond required to be given, the
language of the amended act is precisely the same as that
contained in the act of August 13, 1894;" and in Hill v.
American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 201, that "In respect
to the persons entitled to the benefit of the boid there has
been no material change in the act." Illinois Surety Co.
v. Peeler, supra, p. 224.
This court has repeatedly refused to limit the application of the act to labor and materials directly incorporated
into the public work. Thus in Title Guaranty & Trust Co.
v. CraneCo., 219 U. S.24,34, the claims for which recovery
was allowed under the bond included not only cartage
and towage of material, but also claims for drawings and
patterns used by the contractor in making molds for
castings which entered into the construction of the ship.
In United States Fidelity Co. v. Bartlett, 231 U. S. 237,
where the work contracted for was building a breakwater, recovery was allowed for all the labor at a quarry
opened fifty miles away. This included, as the record
shows, the labor not only of men who stripped the earth

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

to get at the stone and who removed the debris, but carpenters and blacksmiths who repaired the cars in which
the stone was carried to the quarry dock for shipment;
and who repaired the tracks upon which the cars moved.
And the claims allowed included also the wages of stablemen who fed and drove the horses which moved the cars
on those tracks. In Illinois Surety Co. v. John Davis Co.,
244 U. S. 376, recovery was allowed not only for the rental
of cars, track and other equipment used by the contractor
in facilitating his work, but also the expense of loading
this equipment and the freight paid thereon to transport
it to the place where it was used. As shown by these cases,
the act and the bonds given under it must be construed
liberally for the protection of those who furnish labor or
materials in the prosecution of public work.
The Circuit Court of Appeals deemed immaterial the
special circumstances under which the supplies were furnished and the findings of fact by the trial court that they
were necessary to and wholly consumed in the prosecution
of the work provided for in the contract and bond. In
our opinion these.facts are not only material, but decisive.
They establish the conditions essential to liability on the
bond. The bare fact that the supplies were furnished to
the contractor and were consumed by workmen in its
employ would have been immaterial. A boarding house
might be conducted by the contractor (like some company stores concerning which States have legislated,
Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224) as an independent
enterprise undertaken solely in order to utilize the opportunity for separate and additional profit afforded by the
congreghtion of many laborers in the particular locality
where the public work is being performed. The laborers
might resort to such a boarding house in the exercise of
individual choice in the selection of an eating place. Under
such circumstances the furnishing of supplies would clearly
be a matter independent of the work provided for in the

McCURDY v. UNITED STATES.
257.

Syllabus.

contract and would not entitle him who had furnished
the groceries used in the boarding house to recover on the
bond. But here, according to the undisputed facts and
the findings of the trial court, the furnishing of board by
the contractor was an integral part of the work and necessarily involved in it. Like the supplying of coal to
operate engines on the dredges, it was indispensable to
the prosecution of the work, and it was used exclusively
in the performance of the work. Groceries furnished to
a contractor under such circumstances and consumed by
the laborers, are materials supplied and used in the prosecution of the public work. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is therefore reversed and that of the
District Court affirmed.
Revers.ed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, MR. JUSTICE PImmy, and
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOWmS dissent.

McCURDY, COUNTY TREASURER OF OSAGE
COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 685. Argued January 18,1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Whether, in view of the limitations of Art. IV, ยง 3, and the Ninth and
Tenth Amendments of the Constitution, Congress has power to
exempt from state taxation laud purchased for a tribal Indian which
when acquired was part of the mass of private property subject to
the state taxing power and jurisdiction, is a substantial constitu-

