IRELAND v. WOODS.
Syllabus.

IRELAND v. WOODS, POLICE COMMISSIONER OF
THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF AIPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 611.

Argued March 6, 1918.-Decided March 18, 1918.

The jurisdiction to review a state court judgment by writ of error
under Jud. Code, § 237, as amended, is confined to oases in which
the validity of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States was drawn in question, and the decision was against
the validity; and those in which the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under, a State was drawn in question, on the
ground of repugnancy to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States, and the decision was in favor of the validity.
When, however, the state court's judgment upholds the federal treaty,
statute or authority, against the claim of invalidity, or denies the
validity of the state statute or authority upon an attack based
on federal grounds, or when the basis of this court's jurisdiction is
a claim of federal title, right, privilege or immunity, decided for or
against the party claiming, review can be had only by certiorari.
The writ of error is allowed as of right, in the cases designated therefor
by the statute, when the federal question presented is real and substantial, and an open one in this court; but certiorari is granted or
refused by this court in the exercise of its discretion. Philadelphia&
Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162.
The foregoing limitations apply in habeas corpus cases as in others
sought to be reviewed under Jud. Code, § 237.
Where a person held for interstate rendition obtained habeas corpus
upon the ground that he was not a fugitive from justice, basing the
contention on a construction of the indictment as to the time of the
offense charged and on his view of evidence offered by him touching
the time of his presence in the demanding State and his opportunity
to commit the offense, held, that the contention did not draw in
question the validity of the authority exercised under the arresting
State by its governor in issuing his warrant and in holding the petitioner for removal, but merely the correctness of the exercise, and
that a judgment of the state court holding, on the indictment and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

evidence, that petitioner was a fugitive, and dismissing the habeas
corpus, could not be reviewed by writ of error under Jud. Code,
§ 237.
Writ of error to review 177 App. Div. 1; 221 N. Y. 600, dismissed.
THB case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. Arthur C.
Patterson and Mr. Henry Goldstein were on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert S. Johnstone, with whoma Mr. EdwardSwann,
Mr. Robert D. Petty and Mr. Don CarlosBuell were on the
briefs, for defendant in error.

MR. JvsTIc. McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
A case in interstate rendition. Upon requisition of
the Governor of the State of New Jersey, representing
that Ireland, plaintiff in error, was charged in that State
with the crime of conspiracy and with having fled therefrom and taken refuge in New York, the Governor of
the State of New York issued his warrant requiring
Ireland to be arrested and delivered to the agent of the
State of New Jersey to be taken back to the latter State.
By virtue of the warrant defendant in error, Woods, police commissioner of the City of New York, arrested Ireland.
After his arrest Ireland filed a petition in habeas corpus
in the Supreme Court of New York County, State of
New York, for his discharge from the custody of Woods,
alleging that the arrest was illegal and that he was restrained of his liberty in violation of the provisions of
subdivision 2 of § 2, Art. IV, of the Constitution of the
United States, and of § 5278 of the Revised Statutes -of
the United States. The basis of the charge was that he

IRELAND v. WOODS.
323.

Opinion of the Court.

was not within the limits of the State of New Jersey
at the times the alleged crimes were said to have been
committed, nor was there any evidence, either before the
Governor of New Jersey when that officer issued his demand upon the Governor of New York or before the
latter when he issued his warrant, that he (Ireland) was
within the limits of New Jersey at such times; and therefore it did not appear that he was a fugitive from the justice of New Jersey. And it was charged that it appeared
on the face of the indictment that no crime under the
laws of New Jersey was alleged or was committed.
Woods duly made return to the petition, to which were
annexed the requisition of the Governor of New Jersey
and the warrant of the Governor of New York.
Ireland traversed the return under oath, and denied
that he had committed the crimes charged against him,
or any crime; denied that he was within the State at the
times that the indictment charged the crimes were committed, which he alleged to be the 1st of January, 9th of
June and 12th of July, 1913, or that he was in the State
at the time of the finding of the indictment; alleged that
he examined a sworn copy of the requisition of the Governor of New Jersey and that it did not contain any evidence or proof that he, Ireland, was in that State on any
day in any of the months set forth in the indictment;
and he further denied that he was a fugitive from the
justice of the State.
After a hearing, at which the papers which were before
the Governor of New York at the time he issued his warrant were introduced in evidence (over the objection of
Ireland), and certain oral testimony, including that of
Ireland, an order was entered dismissing the writ. It was
successively affirmed by the Appellate Division and the
Court of Appeals. This writ of error was then sued out.
It is stated in the opinion of the Appellate Division,
Judge Shearn speaking for the court, that the requisition

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinio'n of the Court.

246 U. S.

was honored upon the production of the necessary papers
and that it was not claimed there was no sufficient showing before the Governor to warrant the exercise of his jurisdiction; the case depending entirely on the testimony
that he, Ireland, was only three times in New Jersey,
none of which times was charged in the indictment.
The court did not pass upon or even refer to the charge
of the petition that his arrest was in violation of the Constitution of the United States or of § 5278, Rev. Stats.
It rested its decision upon the 6th count of the indictment and the testimony of Ireland.
The 6th count charged that the offenses were committed "on or about the first day" of January, 1913,
"and on divers other days between that day and the
day of the taking of the Inquisition." And the court rejected the contention made by counsel that this was merely
an allegation of a crime committed on January 1st and
held that the dates set forth in the count defined a period of time during any part of which the offenses could
have been committed, citing Commonwealth v. Wood, 4
Gray, 11; Commonwealth v. Snow, 14 Gray, 20; and held
further that the indictment followed the common and accepted form of pleading a continuing conspiracy, adducing Commonwealth v. Sheehan, 143 Massachusetts, 468;
Commonwealth v. Briggs, 11 Mete. 573; Commonwealth
v. Dunn, 111 Massachusetts, 426.
Considering the effect of Ireland's concession that he
was present in the State on at least three occasions during the period defined, the court held, upon the authority of certain cases, that there could be no question but
that he was a fugitive from justice within the meaning
of the extradition law for his presence there was not under conditions which established the impossibility of his
participation in the conspiracy; that, although his stay
was short on each occasion, there was an abundance of
opportunity not only to confer with his alleged confed-

IRELAND v. WOODS.
323.

Opinion of the Court.

erates but to hand to them the letters of credit and bogus checks which, it was alleged, were used to accomplish the overt acts.
It was not considered necessary to pass upon the contentions with respect to the five other counts of the indictment.
A motion to dismiss is made, the grounds of it being:
(1) The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reviewable,
if at all, only by certiorari. (2) It is not reviewable at
all because under the limitation of the jurisdiction of
the Court of Appeals it had no power to review or decide the question whether there was any evidence to
show that Ireland was a fugitive from justice and that
the Court of Appeals must be assumed not to have passed
upon or to have decided the question whether Ireland was
a fugitive from justice. Whether the assumption is justified or not we do not consider, on account of the view
we entertain of the first ground of the motion, to which
we immediately pass. To sustain it coupsel adduces
§ 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. It provides in what cases and
how there can be a review of a judgment or decree of a
state court by this court. It reads as follows: "A final
judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a
State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of,
or an authority exercised under the United States, and
the decision is against their validity; or where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity, may be refxamined and reversed or affirmed in
the Supreme Court upon a writ of error."
When, however, the conditions are reverse, that is,
when state court judgments affirm the national powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

against a contertion of their invalidity or do not sustain
the validity of the state authority against an attack based
on federal grounds, there can be review only by certiorari.
And the same manner of review is prescribed where any
title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the
Constitution or any treaty or statute of, or commission
held or authority exercised under, the United States, and
the decision is either in favor of or against the claim set up.
The difference between the remedies is that one (writ
of error) is allowed as of right where upon examination
it appears that the case is of the class designated in the
statute and that the federal question presented is real and
substantial and an open one in this court, while the other
(certiorari) is granted or refused in the exercise of the
court's discretion.1
Coming, then, to consider what was involved in the decision of the courts below, it is manifest that the validity
of no national enactment or authority was drawn in question nor, in the meaning of the section, the validity of a
statute or authority of the State. There is no doubt of
the right of the Governor of New Jersey to have demanded
of the Governor of New York the extradition of Ireland, nor
of the Governor of the latter State to have complied. Indeed, it was the duty of both so to act if the case justified
it, and whether there was such justification was the only
inquiry and decision of the courts below.
We said in Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S.
445, 451, that the validity of a statute of the United States
or an authority exercised thereunder is drawn in question when the existence or constitutionality or legality
of such statute or authority is denied, and the denial forms
the subject of direct inquiry. A dispute of the facts upon
which the authority was exercised is not a dispute of its
'Twikchell v. Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321; Spies v. Illinois, 123 T. S.
131; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Philadelphia & Reading C. & I.
Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 165.

IRELAND v. WOODS.

323.

Opinion of the Court.

validity. See also Foremanv. Meyer, Id. 452. If there be
no dispute about the facts, Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S.
691, might apply. And necessarily the same principle
and comment axe applicable when there is drawn in
question the validity of a statute of or authority exercised under a State.
In opposition to the motion to dismiss, plaintiff in error
contends that a writ of error is the proper proceeding to
bring to this court for review the final order or judgment
of a state court in a habeas corpus proceeding. Undoubtedly, if the proper conditions of review by that writ exist
as prescribed in the amended §237 of the Judicial Code,
supra. The argument of counsel to show that such conditions do exist in the instant case is somewhat roundabout. It begins by the assertion that the warrant under which Ireland was held in custody was an exercise
of the authority of the State in that it was issued by the
Governor pursuant to the-provisions of § 827 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure of that State. It is not necessary
to quote it. It is simply the fulfillment by the State of
New York of the Constitution of the United States and,
it may be said, of §5278, Rev. Stats. It enjoins the duty
upon the Governor, when a requisition is made upon him
by the Governor of another State, to issue his warrant
for the arrest "of a fugitive from justice." It is upon the
quoted words (which, we may say in passing, are a paraphrase of the provision of the Constitution of the United
States and of § 5278, Rev. Stats.) that the argument of
coiansel dwells and terminates, the persistent contention being that Ireland is not such a fugitive and that
the decision of the Supreme Court at Special Term and
in the Appellate Division to the contrary was based on
the construction of the New Jersey indictment-a pure
question of law, it is contended, and that the effect the
court gave to Ireland's presence in the State at the testiffied times is another question of law. "These questions

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

were reviewable in the Court of Appeals and are open to
decision in this court," is the final insistence of counsel.
We are unable to assent to the latter part of the insistence. Questions of law which may be raised upon the
indictment, the deductions from the facts which may be
charged against the action of the Governor, do not hnpugn it or the validity of the statute which enjoined it.
And surely the decisions of the courts of New York, one
trial and two appellate, affirming the legality of his action, are not decisions against the validity of the authority he exercised.
There is a difference between a question of power to
pass a law and its construction, and a difference between
the endowing of an officer with authority and his erroneous exercise of that authority. As was said by Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court in United States v.
Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 285: "The validity of a statute is
not drawn in question every time rights claimed under
such statute are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority, every time an act done by such authority is disputed."
We think, therefore, that the writ of error must be, and
itis,
Dismissed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. HADLEY, ADMINISTRATOR OF CRADIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 174. Argued March 7, 19"8.-Decided March 18, 1918.

If the defendant's conduct, viewed as a whole, warrants a finding 6f
negligence, the trial court may properly refuse to charge concerning
each constituent item mentioned by the declaration, and leave the
general question to the jury.

