ANDREWS v. NL
263.

& CO.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

While an Indian is still a ward of the Nation, there is
power in Congress even to reimpose restrictions on property already freed; Brader v. James, decided this day,
ante, 88; but Congress did not confer upon the Secretary
of the Interior authority to exercise such power under
the circumstances of this case or to give to property purchased with released funds immunity from state taxation.
The decree is reversed with directions to dismiss the
bill.
Reversed.

ANDREWS, EXECUTRIX OF ANDREWS, v. JOHN
NIX & COMPANY.
ANDREWS, EXECUTRIX OF ANDREWS, v. HENDRICKSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

Nos. 140, 141. Argued January 22, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.
Creditors who participated in the initiation of involuntary bankruptcy
proceedings, in the election of a trustee and in a creditors' meeting
resulting in expense to the estate; and who filed and secured allowance of their claims, but who received no payments and, before any
dividend was declared, obtained an order that their claims be wholly
withdrawn and expunged and excluded from participating in the
distribution of the estate, held not to be "creditors participating in
the distribution" of the estate "under the bankruptcy proceedings"
within the meaning of ยง 70a, subdivision 5, of the Bankruptcy Act.
88 N. J. L. 721, 718, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel H. Richards, with whom Mr. Thomas E.
French was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Mr. Henry F. Stockwell, with whom Mr. E. G. C. Bleakly
was on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTiCE CL mm

delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases, presenting the same question for decision, were argued and will be decided together.
On February 3, 1910, the defendant in error, John Nix
& Company, and two other creditors filed an involuntary
petition in bankruptcy against Benajah D. Andrews. On
the 15th day of the same nonth Andrews died and the
plaintiff in error was duly appointed executrix of his will.
On the 4th of the following April the estate of Andrews
was adjudicated bankrupt by the District Court and on
the 28th day of the same month a trustee was appointed.
Each of the defendants in error promptly made proof of a
claim against the bankrupt estate, and both claims were
forthwith allowed.
On February 13, 1914, almost four years after these
claims were allowed, on the application of Nix & Company and of Hendrickson, the District Court ordered that
the claim of each of them "be wholly withdrawn from said
bankruptcy proceeding and expunged from the list of
claims upon the record in this case and excluded from
participating in the distribution of the estate . . . of
the bankrupt." After the entry of this order a dividend
was declared and paid by the trustee in which Nix & Company and Hendrickson did not participate. No order for
the discharge of the bankrupt estate was applied for or
granted.
At the time of his death Andrews owned two policies
of insurance upon his life, one payable to his estate and
the other payable to his executors, administrators and
assigns. The proceeds of these two policies, less loans
secured by them and less their surrender value, which
was paid to the trustee in bankruptcy, were paid to the

ANDREWS v. NIX & CO.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error as executrix and the money is held by
her subject to the decision of this case.
The defendants in error instituted suits in the Supreme
Court of the State of New Jersey to recover judgments.
on the same claims which had been allowed by the trustee
but were subsequently withdrawn. The cases were submitted to the court upon a stipulation as to the essential
facts substantially as we have stated them, and each recovered a judgment which was affirmed by the Court of
Errors and Appeals of the State of New Jersey, which
judgments are before us for review.
The case is in very narrow compass and calls upon us to
consider the proviso of subdivision 5 of ยง 70a of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 and to decide whether the defendants
in error "participated in the distribution" of the bankrupt's estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, within
the meaning of that proviso, which reads as follows:
"Provided, that when any bankrupt shall have any
insurance policy which has a cash surrender value payable to himself, his estate, or- personal representatives,
he may, within thirty days after the cash surrender value
has been ascertained and stated to the trustee by the company issuing the same, pay or secure to the trustee the
sum so ascertained and stated, and continue to hold, own,
and carry such policy free from the claims of the creditors
participatingin the distributionof his estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, otherwise the policy shall pass to the
trustee as assets."
The argument of the plaintiff in error is that these defendants are brought within the purpose, if not within the
express terms, of this statutory proviso and should not
recover, for the reason that they participated in the election of the trustee in bankruptcy, proved their claims,
and were represented in the meeting of creditors at which
important action was taken involving expense to the bankrupt estate.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

246 U. S.

Unfortunately for the validity of this argument the provision of the statute is not that the proceeds of the insurance policies may be held "free from the claims" of
creditors who participated in the bankruptcy proceedings,
but only from the claims of creditors "participatingin the
distribution of the estate in the bankruptcy proceedings."
Whether a line of discrimination between such two
classes of creditors is wise or logical is not for us to decide.
It is enough that it lies plainly obvious upon the face of
the statute. No dividend was paid creditors until after
the defendants in error by order of the court had been
excluded from participation in the distribution of the
estate, and it is stipulated in the agreed case that no
payment was made to either of them. The meaning of
the proviso is too plain for discussion or interpretation
and that the defendants in error did not "participate in
the distribution of the estate in the bankruptcy proceedings" is clear. The judgments of the Court of Errors and
Appeals of the State of New Jersey must be
Affirmed.

GREAT

NORTHERN

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

ALEXANDER, ADMINISTRATOR OF HALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 130. Argued January 15, 1918.-Decided March 4, 1918.

A case arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act between
citizens of different States is not removable from a state to a federal
District Court on either ground.
In the absence of a fraudulent purpose to defeat removal, the status,
with respect to removability, of a case alleged to be one arising under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act depends not upon what the
defendant may allege or prove or what the court may, after hearing

