OCTOBER TERM, 1917:

214

Syllabus.

216 U. S.

this case conclusively shows that the respondent was
holding the land, which was surrounded by fence, under
claim of right and color of title, and he and his predecessors had so held it for more than 20 years." This reply we
also think is correct and adequate.
In Lyle v. Patterson, 228 U. S. 211, 215, 216, we held a
possessory title may be good as against all except the
United States and pointed out the evil consequences
which would "result if possession secured by violence and
maintained with force and arms could furnish the basis
of a right enforceable in law."
There is no error in either of the judgments below in respect of any federal question and both are
Affirmed.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL. v.
MORRISON, FOR AND ON BEHALF OF HIMSELF
AND ALL OTHER MEMBERS OF THE CHIPPEWA TRIBE OF INDIANS IN MINNESOTA
SIMILARLY SITUATED.
APPEAL FROM TE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 169.

Argued January 30, 1918.--Decided March 4, 1918.

Congress, in the acts making appropriations under the general head for
the "current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department [or
Bureau] and fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes,"
having long made a practice of appropriating each year specifically
for the "civilization and self-support" of Chippewa Indians in
Minnesota out of their trust funds under the Act of January 14,
1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642, held, that the appropriation so expressed
in the appropriation act for the fiscal year 1915 was repeated for the
fiscal year 1916 by the Joint Resolution of March 4, 1915, 38
Stat. 1228, which, in default of a new appropriation act, declared the

LANE v. MORRISON.
214.

Opinion of the Court.

appropriations for the former year coitinued for the latter, employing only the general language of the former appropriation acts to
designate the purposes, and providing against the duplication of
special payments and the execution of any purpose intended by the
former act to be paid for but once or confined to the former fiscal
year.
45 App. D. C. 79, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for appellants.
Mr. Webster Ballinger for appellee.
MR. JusmTic

McREYonus delivered the opinion of

the court.
Appellee by bill in Supreme Court, District of Columbia, sought to prevent officers of the Interior Department from disbursing during fiscal year ending June 30,

1916, one hundred and

gixty

thousand dollars out of

trust funds belonging to Chippewa Indians of Minnesota
on deposit in United States Treasury.
"An Act making appropriations for the current and
contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, for
fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes,
and for other purposes, for the fiscal year ending June
thirtieth, nineteen hundred and fifteen," approved August 1, 1914, c. 222, 38 Stat. 582, 590, provided:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, and they are hereby,
appropriated, out of any money in: the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of paying the current
and contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian
tribes, and in full compensation for all offices the salaries
for which are provided for herein for the service of the

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

fisca' year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and
fifteen, namely:

"Sec. 8. . . . The Secretary of the Interior is
hereby authorized to withdraw from the Treasury of the
United States, at his discretion, the sum of $205,000, or
so much thereof as may be necessary, of the principal
sum on deposit to the credit of the Chippewa Indians in
the State of Minnesota, arising under section seven of the
Act of January fourteenth, eighteen hundred and eightynine, entitled 'An Act for the relief and civilization of the
Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota,' and to use
the same for the purpose of promoting civilization and
self-support among the said Indians in manner and for
purposes provided for in said Act," provided [not more
than $45,000 of this amount may be used for purchase of
lands and removal of bodies of certain deceased Indians].
The annual appropriation bill for current and contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, etc., for
fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, failed of passage and in
lieu of it Congress passed the Joint Resolution, approved
March 4, 1915, [38 Stat. 12281 which follows:
"Jbint Resolution making appropriations for current
and contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes,
and for other purposes, for the fiscal year ending June
thirtieth, nineteen hundred and sixteen.
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That all appropriations for the current and contingent
expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and for fulfilling
treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes, which shall
remain unprovided for on June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and fifteen, are continued and made available for
and during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and sixteen

LANE v. MORRISON.
214.

Opipion of the Court.

to the same extent, in detail, and under the same conditions, restrictions, and limitations for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and sixteen as the same were provided for
on account of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and fifteen
in the Indian appropriation Act for that fiscal year. For
all of such purposes a sufficient sum is appropriated, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
or out of funds to the credit of Indians as the same were
respectively provided in the Indian appropriation Act
for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and fifteen: Provided,
That the appropriations from the Treasury of the United
States or from Indian funds shall not exceed in the aggregate the amounts of such appropriations for the fiscal
year nineteen hundred and fifteen: Providedfurther, That
this joint resolution shall not be construed as providing
for or authorizing the duplication of any special payment
or for the execution of any purpose provided for in said
appropriation Act that was intended to be paid only once
or done solely on account of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and fifteen

"

The original bill alleged that no part of the $205,000
appropriated by Act of August 1, 1914, was for expenses
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or for fulfilling treaty stipulations with Chippewa Indians of Minnesota but all (except the $40,000 item not here involved) was for special
payments and limited to fiscal year ending June 30, 1915;
that it was not intended as a regular annual appropriation and the Joint Resolution of 1915 in express language
excluded such items in Act of 1914 from being re-expended
during 1916; that notwithstanding this the Comptroller
of the Treasury had ruled the Joint Resolution did reappropriate $160,000, and the Secretary of the Interior
and Commissioner of Indian Affairs were preparing to expend such sum out of Indians' trust funds; and that unless enjoined they would draw warrants therefor upon
the Treasury which would be honored,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

Upon motion, the trial court dismissed the bill for
want of equity. The Court of Appeals reversed the decree, holding the Joint Resolution did not re-appropriate
$160,000 and the relief prayed should have been granted.
Treating this as final and conclusive of issues involved
the cause was brought here by appeal.
The only point presented for decision is whether by the
language used Congress has sufficiently indicated an intent to appropriate the money in question. The bill does
not challenge its power.
Under an Act approved January 14, 1889, 25 Stat. 642,
lands in Minnesota occupied by Chippewa .Indians were
disposed of and proceeds deposited to their credit in the
United States Treasury, it being agreed that the fund
should bear five per cent. interest to be paid directly to
the Indians or used for their schools, and further "that
Congress may, in its discretion, from time to time, during the said period of fifty years, appropriate, for the purpose of promoting civilization and self-support among
the said Indians, a portion of said principal sum, not exceeding five per centum thereof." For many years subsequent to 1889 under the general head of "Current and
contingent expenses of the Indian Department
and fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian
tribes" appropriations were made for general benefit of
Chippewas "to be reimbursed to the United States out
of the proceeds of sales of their lands." In 1911 their
funds derived from land sales had become very large; and
beginning then and continuing down to 1914 the annual
Indian appropriations bill contained an item essentially
similar (except as to amounts) both in words and position
to the one in ยง 8, Act of 1914, quoted above.
It seems clear that "civilization and self-support"
among the Indians cannot be promoted effectively by disconnected efforts, but must be accomplished, if at all, by
definite, permanent plans operating through many years.

LANE v. MORRISON.
214.

Dissent.

And in view of the long continued practice of Congress
to provide funds for such continuous efforts by annual
appropriations, the circumstances under which the Joint
Resolution became law, and the studied incorporation
therein of the language of former appropriation acts,
we think the purpose was to authorize expenditure of
$160,000 during 1916, as iad been done for 1915. A different construction might have occasioned disruption of
well ordered arrangements for advancing the Nation's
wards, to the great detriment of all concerned; and to
such unfortunate consequences experienced. legislators
probably were not oblivious.
By construing the resolution too narrowly the court
below reached an erroneous conclusion. Its decree is
therefore reversed; and the decree of the Supreme Court,
District of Columbia, is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE McKENNA dissents.

