OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

246 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. LOUISVILLE CEMENT
COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 70. Argued March 14, 1918.-Decided April 29, 1918.

The provision of ยง 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce that "all cornplaints for the recovery of damages shall be filed with the Commission within two years from the time the cause of action accrues, and
not after," is not a mere statute of limitation but is jurisdictional.
The "cause of action accrues" to a shipper, within the meaning of this
provision, when the unreasonable charges are paid, not when the
shipment is received or delivered by the carrier.
It having been definitely settled by prior decisions of this court that
the time when a "cause of action accrues" is the time when suit may
first be legally instituted upon it, it must be assumed that Congress,
in using that expression without qualifying words, adopted the meaning thus attached to it.
In the absence of other modes of judicial review, the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia has power to direct the Interstate Commerce
Commission by mandamus to entertain and proceed to adjudicate a
cause which it has erroneously declared not to be within its jurisdiction.
42 App. D. C. 514, reversed.

TEE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Van Dyke Norman, with whom Mr. John S.
Ketley, Jr., and Mr. George H. Lamar were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
Folk was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

LOUISVILLE CEMENT CO. v. INT. COM. COMM.
638.

639

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE CLA.RKA,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case are not disputed and are as follows:
By mistake in printing its tariff, the published rate of
the Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. on coal from mines
in Kentucky to Speeds, Indiana, was increased on July 22,
1906, to $1.10 per ton from $1.00, which had been the
rate before.
The mistake was not noticed and the old rate was
charged and paid by relator (plaintiff in error) on shipments until the following February, when, the increased
published rate being discovered, it was charged and collected until the next April, when the former rate was
restored.
Promptly on April 19, 1907, the relator wrote the Interstate Commerce Commission, explaining the circumstances, and requesting that the railroad company be authorized to refund the overcharges paid, February 11th,
to April 19, 1907, amounting to $595.65.
The Commission replied to this letter that if the railroad company would file with the Commission an admission that the rate had been increased through error and
would ask for authority to make the refund, the subject
would receive consideration.
This statement of the Commission was immediately
communicated to the railroad company, but it refused to
make the required admission of mistake and to request
authority to make the refund until the full published rate
was paid on shipments made before the mistake was discovered. This led to dispute and delay, with the result
that these excess charges ($1,335.25) were not paid until
February 1, 1911.
In the following November the relator filed its petition
with the Commission asking for an order permitting the
railroad company to refund the entire amount, in excess of
the former rate, paid under the mistakenly published tariff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

The railroad company admitted that it never intended
to increase the rate and consented that the reparation order prayed for should be issued.
The Commission found, as a matter of fact, that the
mistakenly published rate of $1.10 was unreasonable to
the extent that it exceeded $1.00 per ton, and then, holding that all complaints for the recovery of damages must
be filed with the Commission within two years from the
date of the delivery of the shipment, it ruled that the
letter of the relator to the Commission of April 19, 1907,
making claim for the overcharges which had been paid
between February 11th, and April 10th, 1907, was sufficient to satisfy the law, and ultimately issued to the railroad company authority to pay this amount to the relator; but the Commission further held that the complaint
for the recovery of the overcharges for the period prior
to February 11th, although filed within nine months of
the date of their payment, was not in time to meet the
requirement of ยง 16 of the act that "All complaints for
the recovery of damages shall be filed with the Commission
within two years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after," and that "they [the overcharges]
are therefore barred from our consideration."
The relator filed its petition for a writ of mandamus in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, which petition was denied, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals
for the District affirming this holding is here for review.
The lower courts arrived at their conclusion by holding that the Commission entertained jurisdiction over the
portion of the relator's claim which was rejected; that in
the exercise of that jurisdiction it held the claim to be
barred and that this was an exercise of discretion committed by law to the Commission which is not subject to
control by the writ of mandamus.
We think the courts fell into error in thus interpreting the language used by the Commission in its report.

LOUISVILLE CEMENT CO. v. INT. COM. COMM.
638.

641

Opinion of the Court.

As to the portion of the claim which we are considering,
the report of the Commission is as follows:
"The only question left for determination is whether
the-claim is barred, in whole or in part, by the following
limitation of the Act: 'All complaints for the recovery
of damages shall be filed with the Commission within
two years from the time the cause of action accrues,
and not after.'
"The Commission holds that the date when the cause
of action accrues is the date of the delivery of the shipment.
Blinn Lumber Co. v. Southern Pacifw Co., 18 1. C. C. Rep.
430.

.

.

. No complaint was filed by complainant

[relator) with reference to shipments made before February 1, 1907, until the petition here in question was filed
on November 15, 1911, and these shipments had all been
delivered more than four years before the filing of that
petition. They [the overcharges] are therefore barred
from our consideration."
The concluding sentence thus used by the Commission
that "They [the overcharges] are therefore barred from
our consideration," implies that in the opinion of the
Commission the two-year provision of the 16th section
of the act is a limitation upon its power, and that the construction which it gave to this limitation placed the claim
we are considering so beyond its jurisdiction that it could
not consider it, and reference to the case cited as authority
for its conclusion, Blinn Lumber Co. v. Southern Pacific Co.,
18 I. C. C. 430, makes it clear that such was the intended holding. In that case the Commission expresses
its conclusion in this form:
"After careful consideration of the contentions of all
parties

. . . as to the right of the complainant"

(after two years) "to maintain this proceeding for reparation before the Commission, it is our conclusion that
we are without power to grant the relief prayed for."
And in Anaconda Copper Mining Co. v. Chicago & Erie

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

R. R. Co., 19 I. C. C. 592, decided seven months later,
the Commission makes a yet more emphatic announcement of its views upon the subject, saying:
"In this report only such shipments will be considered
as moved within two years from the time the complaint
embracing them was filed, and with respect to shipments
moving prior to such two-year period we think it proper
to state that, following the spirit as well as the letter of the
limitation clause contained in section 16 of the act, we
believe we are without jurisdiction, and therefore we will
not make any finding whatever concerning such shipments
or the rates and charges assessed thereon."
It is thus made very clear that the holding of the Commission was, not that having jurisdiction over the claim,
upon consideration thereof, it was found to be barred by a
statute of limitation, but that the language of the twoyear provision of the act was jurisdictional and placed it
so beyond its power that it could not be considered at all,
and that, for this reason, the petition, to the extent it
related to the overcharges paid on February 1, 1911, was
dismissed.
We agree with this conclusion of the Commission, that
the two-year provision of the act is not a mere statute
of limitation but is jurisdictional,-is a limit set to the
power of the Commission as distinguished from a rule of
law for the guidance of it in reaching its conclusion
(Interstate Commerce Commission v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 216 U. S. 538, 544). That such was the opinion of this
court was clearly intimated in Phillips Co. v. Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 662, 667, and it conforms in principle to the holdings of the court with respect
to a similar limitation, but for six years, on the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims (Fordv. United States, 116 U. S.
213; Finnv. United States, 123 U. S. 227, 232; United States
v. Wardwell, 172 U. S. 48, 52).
That the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,

LOUISVILLE CEMENT CO. v. INT. COM. COMM.
638.

64,

Opinion of the Court.

in a proper case, has power to direct the Commission by
mandamus to entertain and proceed to adjudicate a cause
which it has erroneously declared to be not within its
jurisdiction is decided in Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Humboldt Steamship Co., 224 U. S. 474. If the Commission did so err, on the authority of 'many decisions,
among them Ex parte Russell, 13 Wall. 664; Ex parte
Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; Hollon Parker, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 221; In re Grossmayer, 177 U. S. 48, and Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Humboldt Steamship Co., 224
U. S. 474, 485, the courts may correct such error on a
petition for mandamus, where, as in this case, the erroneous
decision cannot be reviewed on appeal or writ of error.
There remains the question, Did the Commission place
an erroneous interpretation upon the scope of its jurisdiction under this two-year provision in ยง 16 of the act,
in excluding the claim which we have before us from its
consideration?
This provision first appears in an amendment to the
act, approved June 29, 1906, ยง 5, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 590;
and in January, 1908, the Commission published as its
construction of the limitation the following, viz:
"A cause of action accrues, as that phrase is used in
the act, on the date the freight charges are actually paid."
The decisions of the Commission show (15 I. C. C. 201,
235, 533; 16 I. C. C. 385) that it adhered to this construction until May, 1910, when, in Blinn Lumber Co. v.
Southern Pacific Co., 18 I. C. C. 430, it changed its ruling
and adopted the holding that the cause of action accrued
when the shipment was delivered.
This change, as the report of the Commission shows,
resulted not from any modification of opinion as to the
meaning of the language used but from the conclusion
of a majority of its members that such interpretation
was necessary to give effect to other provisions of the act,
especially those relating to rebates and undue preferences.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

246 U. S.

But this two-year provision, obviously enough, relates
only to the recovery of money damages, and if Congress
had intended that the cause of action of the shipper to
recover damages for unreasonable charges should accrue
when the shipment was received, or when it was delivered by the carrier, we cannot doubt that a simple and
obvious form for expressing that intention would have
been used, instead of the expression "from the time the
cause of action accrues." And in this connection we cannot fail to recognize that when the statute, was enacted
the time when a cause of action accrues had been settled
by repeated decisions of this court to be when a suit may
first be legally instituted upon it (Amy v. Dubuque, 98
U. S. 470, 474; United States v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216,
222; Rice v. United States, 122 U. S. 611, 617) and, since
no clearly controlling language to the contrary is used,
it must be assumed that Congress intended that this
familar expression should be given the well understood
meaning which had been given to it by this court. We
therefore conclude, as was held, without special discussion
of the point, in Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk Western
Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 662, 666, 668, which in this respect
really rules the case before us, that the proper construction of this jurisdictional provision requires that the
cause of action of the shipper in this case shall be held
not to have accrued until payment had been made of the
unreasonable charges, and that, therefore, the interpretation which the Commission placed upon its jurisdictional
power is erroneous.
The unusual and purely fortuitous circumstance, that
the character of this jurisdictional limitation on the
power of the Commission chances to be such that the
giving of a correct construction to it must result in determining the character of the decision which the Commission must render when the case is returned to it, cannot affect the power of this court or that of the lower

LOUISVILLE CEMENT CO. v. INT. COM. COMM.
638.

645

Opinion of the Court.

courts to define what that jurisdiction is under the act of
Congress or the duty of the Commission to accept and
act upon such definition when announced.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be reversed and that the case must be remanded
to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, with
direction that a writ of mandamus issue to the Commission, directing that it proceed to dispose of the claim
in controversy under the construction placed upon its
jurisdiction by this opinion.
Reversed.

