STEWART v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

445

Statement of the Case.

STEWART v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 9T. Argued November 8, 1897.-Decided December 6,1897.

The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has jurisdiction of an
action, sounding in tort, brought by the administrator of a deceased
person against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to recover
damages for the benefit of the widow of the deceased by reason of his
being killed by a collision which took place while he was travelling on
that railroad in4he State of Maryland..
The purpose of the several statutes passed in the States in more or less conformity to what is known as Lord Campbell's act, is to provide the
means for recovering the damages caused by that which is in its nature a
tort, and where such a statute simply takes away a common law obstacle
to a recovery for the tort, an action for that tort can be maintained in
any State in which that common law obstacle has been removed, when
the statute of the State in which the cause of action arose is not, in sub.
stance, inconsistent with the statutes or public policy of the State in
which the right of action is sought to be enforced.
While, under the Maryland statute authorizing the survival of the right of
action, the State is the proper plaintiff and the jury trying the cause is to
apportion the damages recovered, and under the act of Congress in force
in the District of Columbia, the proper plaintiff isthe personal representative of the deceased, and the damages recovered are distributed by law,
these differences are not sufficient to render the statutes of Maryland
inconsistent with the act of Congress, or the public policy of the District
of Columbia.

ON October 22, 1891, plaintiff in error as plaintiff filed in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia an amended declaration containing two counts. The first alleged that John
Andrew Casey,. plaintiff's intestate, was killed through the
negligence of the defendant company, in the State of Maryland; that said intestate left surviving no parent or child
but only his wife, Alice Triplett Casey, for whose benefit this
action was brought. The second count set forth in addition
to the matters disclosed in the first a statute of the State of
Mfaryland in respect to recovery in such cases. A demurrer

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

to this declaration was sustained and judgment entered for
defendant. This was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, and from such, judgment of affirmande
plaintiff has brought the case here on error.
The statute in force in the District of Columbia, act of February 17, 1885, c. 126, 23 Stat. 307, provides for recovery in
case the act causing death is done within the limits of the
District of Columbia; that "the person who or corporation
which would have been liable if death had not ensued shall be
liable to an action for damages for such death, notwitlistanding th&death of the person injured ;"that the recovery shall
not exceed $10,000; that the action shall be brought in the
name of the personal representative of the deceased, and
within one year after his death, and that the damages recovered shall not be appropriated to the payment of the debts of
the deceased, but enure to the benefit of his or her family
and be distributed according to the provisiofis of the statute
of distributions. The Maryland statute, which is copied in
the declaration, Rev. Code Maryland, 1878, p. 724, provides
in the first section that whenever the death of a person shall
be caused by the wrongful act, negligence, etc., of another,
"the person who would have been liable if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages." *Sections 2
-and 3 are as follows:
"So. 2.

Every such action shall be for the benefit of the

wife, husband, parent and child of the person whose death
shall have been so caused, and shall be brought by and in the
name of the State of Maryland, for the use of the -person entitled to damages, and in every such action the jury may give
such damages as they may think proportioned to the injury
resulting from such death to the parties respectively for whom
and for whose benefit such action shall be brought, and the
amount so recovered, after deducting the costs not recovered
from the defendant, shall be. divided amongst the abovementioned parties, in such shares as the jury by their verdict
shall find and direct: Provided, That not more than one
action shall lie for and in respect of the same subject-matter
of complaint; and that every such action shall be commenced

STEWART v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

447

Opinion of the Court.

within twelve calendar months after the death of the deceased
person.
"SEe. 3. In every such action, the equitable plaintiff on the
record shall be required, together with the declaration, to deliver to the defendant, or his attorney, p6 full particular of the
persons for whom and on whose behalf such action shall be
brought, and of the nature of the claim in respect of which
damages shall be sought to be recovered."
M". Edwin Sutherlandfor plaintiff in error.
.Mr. George . Hamilton for defendant in error.
Zichael J Colbert was on his brief.

Mr.

MR. JUsTicE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Court of Appeals was of opinion that the action could
not be maintained under the statute of the District of Columbia,
because that authorizes recovery only in case the injury causing death is done within the limits of the District, nor under
the Maryland statute because of the peculiar form of remedy
prescribed therein, citing in support of the latter contention
Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 5210. A statute of Alabama
made stockholders of a bank individually liable for its debts,
and according to the construction given to it by the Supreme
Court of the State the remedy provided was a suit in equity,
whereas in that case a single creditor had sued one of the
stockholders in an action at la*; and in denying the right to
maintain such action this court observed, page 526:
"The individual liability of siockholders in a corporation
for the payment of its debts is always a. creature of statute.
At common law it does not exist. The-statute which creates
it may also declare the purposes of its creation, and provide
for the manner of its enforcement. . . . The liability and
the remedy were created by the same statute. This being so,
the remedy provided is exclusive of all others. A general
liability created by statute without a remedy may be enforced

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

by an appropriate common law action. But where the provision for the liability is coupled with a provision for a special
remedy, that remedy, and that alone, must be employed."
To like effect was cited Fourth NAational Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 74'7. The Court of Appeals was of opinion that
the statute in Maryland not only created a statutory liability
but prescribed a particular remedy, and that no action could
be maintained, either in Maryland or elsewhere, unless that
special remedy was pursued.
Notwithstanding the ability with which the arguments in
support of this conclusion are presented in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, we are unable to concur therein. A negligent act causing death is in itself a tort, and, were it not for
the rule founded .on the maxim actio personalis moritur cum
Persona, damages therefor 'could have been recovered in an
action at common law. The case differs in this important
feature from those in which a penalty is imposed for an act
in itself not wrongful, in which a purely statutory delict is
created. The purpose of the several statutes passed in the
States, in more or less conformity to what is known as Lord
Campbell's act, is to provide the means for recovering the
damages caused by that which is essentially and in its nature a
tort. Such statutes are not penal, but remedial, for the benefit
of the persons injured by the death. An action to recover
damages for a tort is not local but transitory, and can as a
general rule be maintained wherever the wrongdoer can be
found. Dennick v. Railroad Company, 103 U. S. 11. It may
well be that where a purely statutory right is created the
special remedy provided by the statute for the enforcement
of that right must be pursued, but where the statute simply
takes away a common law obstacle to a recovery for an admitted tort, it would seem not unreasonable to hold that an
action for that tort can be maintained in any State in which
that common law obstacle has been removed. At least iAhas
been held by this court in repeated cases that an action for
such a tort can be maintained "where the statute of the State
in which the cause of action arose is not in substance inconsistent with the statutes or public policy, of the State in which

STEWART v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

the right of action is sought to be enforced." Texas & Pacific Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 605; see also Dennicek v.
Railroad Company, 103 13. S. 11; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657; Northern Pacifi Railroad v.Babcock, 154 U. S.
190.
What are the differences between the two statutes? As
heretofore noticed, the substantial purpose of these various
statutes is to do away with the obstacle to a recovery caused
by the death of the party injured. Both statutes in the case
at bar disclose that purpose. By each the death of the party
injured ceases- to relieve the wrongdoer from liability for
damages caused by the death, and"this is its main purpose and
effect.: The two statutes differ as to the party in whose name
the suit is to be brought. In Maryland the plaintiff is the
State; in this District the personal representative of the deceased. But neither the State in the one case nor the personal
representative in the other has any pecuniary interest in the
recovery. Each is simply a nominal plaintiff. While in the
District the nominal plaintiff is the personal representative of
the deceased, the damages -recovered do not become part of
the assets of the estate, or liable for the. debts of the deceased,
but are distributed among certain of his heirs. By neither
statute is there any thought of increasing the volume of the
deceased's estate, but in each it is the award to certain prescribed heirs of the damages resulting to them from the taking
away of their relative.
For purposes of jurisdiction in the Federal courts regard is
had to the real rather than to the nominal party. Browne v.
Strode, 5 Cranch, 303 ; .'Nfutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9; State of
Maryland, for use of Markley, v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490.
See, also, Gaither v. Farmers' & Aechanics' Bankc of Georgetown, 1 Pet. 37, 42, in which the issue submitted to the jury
was, as stated, one between the bank to the use of Thomas
Corcorran, plaintiff, and Gaither, the defendant, upon which
the court said: "This practice is familiar with the Maryland
courts, and when the action originates in that form, the cestui
gue use is regarded as the real party to the suit." It is true
those were actions on contract, and this is an action for a tort,
VoL. cLxvi-29

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

but still in such an .action it is evident that the real party in
interest is not the nominal plaintiff but the party for whose
benefit the recoyery is sought; and the courts of either jurisdiction will see that the damages awarded pass to such
party.
Another difference is that by the Maryland statute the jury
trying the cause apportion the damages awarded between the
parties for whose benefit the action is brought, while by the
statute of the District the distribution ismade according
to the ordinary laws of distribution of a decedent's estate.
But by each the important matter is the award of damages,
and the manner of distribution is a minor consideration.
Besides, in determining the amount of the recovery the jury
must necessarily consider the damages which each beneficiary
has sustained by reason of the death. By neither statute is a
fixed sum to be given as a penalty for the wrong, but in each
the question is the amount of dainages. It is true that the
beneficiaries of such an action may not in every case be exactly
the same under each statute, but the principal beneficiaries
under each are the near relatives, those most likely to be
dependent on the party killed, and the temote relatives can
seldom, if ever, be regarded as suffering loss from the death.
We cannot think that these differences are sufficient to render the statute of Maryland in substance inconsistent with the
statute or public policy of the District of Columbia, and so,
within the rule heretofore announced in this court, it must be
held that the plaintiff was entitled to maintain this action in
the courts of the District for the benefit of the persons designated in the statute of Maryland. The judgment will be
Reversed, and the case .remandedfora trial upon the merits.

