UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

505

Syllabus.

the contractual and governmental power of the States, to wit,
that the provisions of the Federal Constitution in reference
to contracts only inhibits the States from passing laws impairing the obligations of such contracts as relate to property
rights, but not to subjects that are purely governmental."
In the same opinion it is well observed that, under any other
doctrine than that announced in Stone v.. Mississippi, the
legislature, by giving or bartering away the power to guard
and protect the public morals, could "convert the State into
dens of bawdy houses, gambling shops and other places of
vice and demoralization, provided- the grantees paid for the
privileges, and thus deprive the State of its power to repeal
the grants and all control of the subjects as far as the grantees
are concerned, and the trust duty of protecting and fostering
the honesty, health, morals and good order of the State would
be cast to the winds, and vice and crime would triumph in
their stead. Now, it seems to us that the essential principles
of self-preservation forbid that the Commonwealth should
possess a power so revolting, because destructive of the main
pillars of government."
We perceive no error in the judgment of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, and it is
.Ajflrmed.
MR. JUsTicE SmEAs agrees that the judgment should be
affirmed, but does not concur in all the reasoning of this
court.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 138. Argued December 2, 189T.-Decided December 13, 1897.

The questions propounded in the certificate in this case do not present distinct points or propositions of law, clearly stated, so that each can be
distinctly answered, without regard to the other issues of law involved,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
and they obviously bring the whole case up for consideration; and as
to answer them would require this court to consider the several matters
thus pressed upon its attention, to pass upon questions of law not sjecifcally propounded, and to dispose of the whole case, it is held, referring
to previous decisions, that the certificate is, insufficient under the statute.

THIs was a suit brought by the United States in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas against
the Union Pacific :Railway Company and its receivers, as
directed by the act of July 13, 1892, c. 164, 27 Stat. 120, 126,
to recover certain amounts "found by the Department of the
Interior to be due from said railroad company, its successors
or assigns, under the last paragraph of the second article of
the treaty with the Delaware Tribe of Indians of May thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty, and under the concluding
clause of the third article of said treaty, and for damage done
the said Indians in the taking and destruction of the property
by said railroad company, which sums when recovered shall
'be used to reimburse the United States for the sun appropriated in the foregoing paragraph."
That sum was $39,675.16, of which $10,715.75 was to be paid
to individual members of the Delaware Tribe for improvements
on lands sold to the Leavenworth Company, and $28,959.41
was to be paid to individual members of the tribe for right of
way through their allotted lands.
The first count of the petition alleged that in the year 1831,
and for a long time prior thereto, the United States were the
owners in fee simple of all the lands lying north of the Kansas and west of the Missouri rivers, in the then Territory of
Kansas, and that by the terms of the treaty made between
the United States and the Delaware Indians, proclaimed
March 24, 1831, the United States conveyed and secured to
that Nation, as a permanent home, a certain tract, describing
it, with an outlet; that afterwards, in the year 1854, by the
terms of another treaty, the Nation ceded to the United
States all their right, title and interest in and to their country
lying west of the State of Missouri, and situate in the fork of
the Missouri and Kansas rivers, and also- their right and
interest in the outlet, with certain designated exceptions.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

507

Statement of the Case.

It was further averred that articles eleven and twelve of
the latter treaty provided that the country reserved for the
permanent home of the Delawares might on request be surveyed and allotted; and that roads and highways laid out by
authority of law should have a right of way through the
reservation; "and railroad companies, when the lines of their
roads necessarily pass through the said reservation, shall have
the right of way, on payment of a just compensation therefor
in money"; that afterwards the Delawares signified their
wish that a portion of the lands reserved for their home
might be divided and allotted; and thereupon, by the terms
of a treaty entered into May 30, 1860, it was provided, among
other things, that a portion of the reservation should be surveyed and allotted as stated, and by the last clause of article
two thereof, that "the improvements of the Indians residing
on the lands to be sold shall be valued by the United States,
and the individual owners thereof shall receive the amount
realized from the sale of the same, to be expended in building
other improvements for them on the lands retained." By
article three it was provided that as to the remaining lands,
after th6 tracts in severalty and those for special objects
named in the treaty had been selected and set apart, the
Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad . Company, a
Kansas corporation, should have the prior right of purchase
upon the payment into the United States Treasury, which
payment should be made within six months after the quantity
of said'land was ascertained, in gold or silver coin, of such a
sum as three commissioners, to be appointed by the Secretary
of the Interior, should appraise to be the value, and providing
that such value should not be placed below the value of one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, exclusive of the cost of
survey.
That, upon payment, a patent should be issued directly to
the company; that the United States would accept the trust
imposed on them and apply the money resulting from such
disposition of the lands in the manner prescribed by the
treaty of 1854; and it was "also agreed that said railroad
company shall have the perpetual right of way over any por-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the lanas allotted to the Delawares in severalty, on
the payment -of. a just compensation therefor, in money, to
the respective parties whose lands are crossed by the line of
railroad."
It was the'n alleged that by the terms of the treaty the
United States became, and were the trustees of the Delawares
for the purposes provided for therein; that the Leavenworth
Company, prior to 1867, accepted the terms of the treaty and
agreed to purchase the unallotted lands of the Delawares and
to pay for them and the improvements thereon in accordance
therewith ; and that all the rights of the company in and to
the lands and its liability for the lands and improvements,
and all the rights and liabilities of its grantee, successor and
assignee, the Union Pacific Railway Company, were fixed by
the terms of said treaties, 'and that the Leavenworth Company, and its grantee, successor and assignee, the Union
'Pacific Railway Company, took the lands "subject to thie condition's set forth in said treaties as to the payment therefor
and as to the payment for said improvements thereon"; that
the United States on October 20, 1860, appointed three commissioners to inspect and appraise the value of the land and
improvements which the Leavenworth Company had become
entitled to purchase, and they appraised the improvements
at the value of $95347.25, and returned the appraisement, a
scheduleof which was made part of the petition. But at the
time of that appraisement and of the purchase of the lands by
the Leavenworth Company there were other improvements
not included, which were afterwards appraised at the sum of
$1181.50, and an itemized statement of these improvements
was attached.
The United States further averred that the Leavenworth
Company was unable to carry out the terms of the purchase
of the lands and improvements and pay for the same as provided for in the treaty, and that afterwards a further treaty
was made and entered into on or about July 2, 1861, ratified
August 6, 1861, which .in terms referred to the provisions for
the sale of the lands and improvements in the prior treaties,
by which last mentioned treaty it was provided that the

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

509

Statement of the Case.

Leavenworth Company might execute its bonds with interest
coupons attached, the principal sum to be $286,742.15, and
execute a mortgage on one hundred thousand acres of land,
as set forth in a letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
to the Secretary of the Interior, dated May 29, 1861, said
mortgage to be conditioned for the payment of the bonds,
both principal and interest, the bonds and mortgage being
executed by the company in lieu of the payment previously
provided for; but no provision was made in the last mentioned
treaty for any change in the time or manner of paying for said
improvements, and the bonds and mortgage were executed to
-secure the payment of the purchase price of the lands only,
exclusive of the value of* the improvements, the amount
whereof was .ot included in the mortgage.
It was also averred that through changes in the name of
the Leavenworth Company, and through a consolidation by
and with other railroad companies, the Union Pacific Railway
Company succeeded to all the franchises, property rights and
interests of the said Leavenworth Company, and became
and was subject to all the liabilities of-that company under
and by virtue of the said several treaties, and under and by
virtue of the purchase of said Delaware Indian lands and the
improvements thereon ; that thereafter, by the terms of the
treaty entered into on the 4th 'day of July, 1866, which treaty
was ratified on or about the 26th day of July, 1866, in article
first thereof it was provided "that the United States shall
secure and cause to be paid to said Indians the full value of
all that part of their reservation, with the, improvements then
existing on the same, heretofore sold to the Leavenworth,
Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, according to the
terms of a treaty ratified August 22, 1860, and supplemental
treaties, and in accordance with the conditions, restrictions
and limitations thereof."
That thereby plaintiffs became and were sureties for the
payment of the value of said improvements, and trustees for
the Delaware Indians to collect and dispose of the money as
provided .therein; and that neither the Leavenworth Company
nor any of its assignees or successors, nor the Union Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Railway Company, nor its receivers, defendants herein, have
paid for said improvenients, and that they remain' due and
Wholly unpaid by defendants.
That by an act of Congress, approved July .13, 1892, there
was appropriated and paid to the Delaware Indians the sum
of $10,715.75, which sum the United States paid to those
Indians as sureties under the treaties and'in discharge of the
trust created thereby.
And plaintiffs said that by the terms of the treaties and by.
the acceptance thereof by the Leavenworth Company and its
grantee, successor and assignee, the Union Pacific Railway
Company, the latter became and was liable to plaintiffs, as.
sureties and trustees, for money paid out and expended on
behalf of defendants for said improvements in the sum of
$10,715.75, which sum, together with interest thereon from
May 30, 1860, was now due and wholly unpaid.
The second count averred that by virtue of the treaties
mentioned in the first count, the Leavenworth Company
became entitled to a right of way across the Delaware Reservation, and across the lands subsequently allotted in severalty
to -theDelawares on payment of a just. compensation therefor;
that the United States under the treaties became trustees for
the Delawares to collect and account for the amounht due
them for such right of way and the sureties of the railroad
companies for the payment of the same: That the Leavenworth Company under these treaties laid out a right of way
and constructed a railroad over and across the reservation and
over and across certain parcels of land allotted in severalty to
Delaware Indians, and thereby became liable to the United
States as trustees for the Delawares for the damages thereby
sustained by the latter; that a reasonable compensation for the
right of way across the allotted lands amounted to $28,959.41,
which amount was ascertained by an appraisement by a commission appointed under 'the treaty; that the Union Pacific
Railway Company was the successor of the Leavenworth
Company, and liable for the amount due the Indians for the
right of way; that the amount specified was appropriated and
paid the Delaware Indians by the United States under the act of

UNITED. STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

51i

Counsel for Parties.

July 13, 1892, as sureties, and was due from the railway
company.
To these counts demurrers were sustained by the Circuit
Court and judgment entered in favor of defendants. The
case was then carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit and that court certified to this court the two
counts, the demurrers, and the judgment thereon, and its desire for instruction "upon the following questions and propositions of law arising upon the record in such cause, to the
end that it may properly decide said cause:
"First. UpQn the facts stated in the first and second counts
of said petition, is the United States entitled to recover from
the Union Pacific :Railway Company, or the receivers thereof,
the whole or any part of the sum of $10,715.75, heretofore
paid by the United States to the Delaware Indians, pursuant
to the act of Congress of July 13, 1892, c. 164, 27 Stat. 120,
126, for improvements upon lands sold to the Leavenworth,
Pawnee and Western Railroad Company?
"Second. Upon the facts stated in the first and second
counts of said petition, is the United States entitled to recover
from the Union Pacific Railway Company, or the receivers
thereof, the whole or any part of the sum of $28,954.41, heretofore paid by the United States to individual members of the
tribe of Delaware Indians, pursuant to the provisions of the
act of Congress of July 13, 1892, for and on account of right
of way through allotted lands belonging to members of said
tribe, which right of way was secured by the Leavenworth,
Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, in accordance with
the concluding clause of article 3 of a treaty concluded with
the tribe of Delaware Indians on May 30, 1860?
"Third. Upon the facts stated in the first and second
counts of said petition, were the demurrers thereto properly
sustained?"
Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. John F. Dillon for defendants in error. M.P. A. 1.
William8 and Mr. Harry Hubbard were on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
MiR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER, after

stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is settled that the certification provided for in sections
five ahd six of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26
Stat. 826, is governed by the rules laid down in respect of certificates of division under the Revised Statutes. CoZumbus
Match Company v. Robbins, 148 U.S. 266; Maynardi v. HRecht,
151 U. S. 324; Graver v. .Faurot, 162 U. S. 435; Cross v.
Evans, 167 U. S. 60.
By those rules, as repeated in these cases from prior decisions, "each question had to be a distinct point or proposition
of law, clearly stated, so that it could be distinctly answered
without regard to the other issues of law in the case; to be a
question of law only, and not a question of fact, or of mixed
law and fact, and hence could not involve or imply a conclusion or judgment upon the weight or effect of testimony or
facts adduced in the case; and could not embrace the whole
case, even where its decision turned upon matter of law only,
and even though it was split up in the form of questions."
Fire Insurance Association v. Wicekham, 128 U. S.426 ; Du blin Township V. ifilford Savings Institution, 128 U. S.510.
The questions propounded in this certificate do not present
distinct points or propositions of law, clearly stated, so that
each could be distinctly answered without regard to the other
issues of law involved, and they obviously bring the whole
case up for consideration and disposition.
:Elaborate argument on behalf of the Government was
made at the bar, dealing with the Delaware treaties of 1831,
1854, 1860, 1861 and' 1866, and the construction of various
provisions thereof ; with the construction of the Pacific Railroad act of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489 ; and' also with
the legislation in relation to the incorporation of the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company; its change of
name; and consblidation with other railroad .companies, under
the name of the Union Pacific Railway Company. Laws Kan.
sas, 1855, c. 86, p. 914 ; Act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356;
Resolution of March. 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 348; Act of March, 3,
1869, c. 127, 15 Stat. 324.

SPRINGER LAND ASSOCIATION v. FORD.

513

Syllabus.

Defendants in error contended that the petition was fatally
defective in respect of any ground of liability for the improvements; that there was no sale of the improvements separate
from the lands; that the stipulated patent carried title to the
improvements with the lands; that by section two of the
Pacific Railroad act of July 1, 1862, the United States
granted the right of way through the reservation and undertook to extinguish the Indian title; that the grant was of a
free right of way, and the United States were estopped by it
from maintaining the second cause of action; that this question was res judicata by the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Kansas in Grinter v. Zansas Pacife .Railway,23 Kansas,
642; that the line of the Kansas Pacific Company upon the
right of way in question was not the line of the Leavenworth.
Pawnee and Western Railroad Company or its successor, but
of an independent corporation created by an act of Congress;
and that even on the theory of the Government the defence
of laches and limitations was available and formed a complete
bar.
To answer the questions certified would require us to consider the several matters thus pressed on our attention; to
pass upon questions of law not specifically propounded; and
to dispose of the whole case. It follows that the certificate
is insufficient under the statute.
Certiicatedismised.

SPRINGER LAND ASSOCIATION v. FORD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 89. Argued November 5, 1897.-

Decided December 18, 1897.

Section 1524 of the Compiled Laws of New Mexico providing for the creation of mechanics' liens for work done on land, required the contractor,
in order to obtain the benefit of the act, to file for record "a claim coitaining a statement of his demands, after deducting all just credit and
offset, with the name of the owner or reputed owner, if known, and also
VOL. cVzxvm-- 3

