WILSON v. LAMBERT.
Syllabus.

It may be well in concluding this opinion to again note the
fact, already mentioned, that the withdrawal here considered
was one in favor of an earlier grant. It may be that a different rule would obtain in case it was in favor of a later grant.
As to place lands, it is settled that, in case of conflict, the
title depends on the dates of the grants and not on the times
of the filing of the maps of definite location. In other words,
the earlier grant has the higher right. No scramble as to the
matter of location avails either road, and it may be that the
same thought would operate to uphold the title to the place
lands of an earlier as against a withdrawal in favor of a later
grant. Neither is it intended to question the rule that the
title to indemnity lands dates from selection and not from the
grant. All that we here hold is, that when a withdrawal of
lands within indemnity limits is made in aid of an earlier
land grant and made prior to the filing of the map of definite
location by a company having a later grant -the latter
having' such words of exception and limitation as are found
in the grant to the plaintiff - it operates to except the withdrawn lands from the scope of stich later grant.
We see no error in the record, and the decree of the Court
of Appeals is
Aflrme.

WILSON v. LAMBERT.'
APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUM -IA.
No. 164. Argued December 13, 14, 1S97.-Decided Xanuary -,1898.

Courts of equity have jurisdiction to hear the complaints of those who
assert that their lands are about to be assessed and subjected to liens by
a board or commission acting in pursuance of the provisions of a statute
which has been enacted under the forms of law, but which, it is claimed,
is unconstitutional, and therefore does not avail to confer the powers
sought to be exercised.
2 The docket title of this case is Craighill & others v. Lambert & others.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
The sixth section of the act of September 2r, 1890, c. 1001, 26 Stat. 492,
authorizing the establishment of Rock Creek Park in the District of
Columbia, does not violate the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, and is valid.

Iw January, 1895, Mary Van Riswick, widow, and Avarilla
Lambert, and Martina Oarr, children and heirs of John Van
Riswick, deceased, filed a bill of complaint in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia against the Commission
under the Rock Creek Park Act of September 27, 1890, c.
1001, 26 Stat. 49, seeking to restrain the said Commission
from assessing lands of the complainants for any portion of
the cost and expenses of locating and improving the Rock
Creek Park, for the alleged reason that the sixth section of
the said act, under which the Commission was acting in proposing to make such assessment, was unconstitutional and
void.
The cause was so proceeded in that, on September 30, 1895,
the Supreme .Court of the District rendered a final decree as
prayed for in the bill. From that decree an appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and by
that court, on March 17, 1896, the decree of the Supreme
Court of the District, was affirmed. The cause was then
brought to this court on appeal.
'. Solicitor General for appellants.
Hr. Talnadge A. Iambert and Mr. John B. .Uenderson for
appellees.
Mi. JusTICO
SunRAs, after making the above statement,
delivered.the opinion of the court.

Courts of equity undoubtedly have jurisdiction to hear the
complaints of those who assert that their lands are about to be
assessed and subjected to liens by a board or commission acting in pursuance of the provisions of a statute which has been
enacted under the forms of law, but which is unconstitutional,
and therefore does not avail to .confer the powers sought to
be exercised. Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108; Union Pac.

WILSON v. LAMBERT.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516; Ogden City v. Armtstrong, 168 U. S. 224; Dillon's Mun. Corporations, vol. 2,
922, 4th ed.
Accordingly if, in the present case, the sixth section of the
act of September 27, 1890, entitled "An act authorizing the
establishment of a public park in the District of Columbia,"
and upon which the defendants rely for their authority to
act, is, indeed, unconstitutional and void, for all or any of the
reasons urged against it, we think that the complainants are
entitled to a remedy by a direct proceeding in a court of
equity. For the reasons mentioned in the cases above cited
and in numerous others, the remedy at law could not be regarded as plain and adequate.
The validity of the section in question has been heretofore
considered and determined by this court in the case of Shoenaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282. The objections which in
that case were ably but ineffectually urged were, in the main,
those of which we now hear. It is true, however,, that the
question there arose incidentally and by way of argument.
Persons whose property was made liable to assessment for
special benefits were not ostensible parties to the cause; nor
was the question raised by any special assignment. Hence
this court, though undoubtedly called upon to consider the
validity of the act as a whole, and in all its parts and sections,
did not deem it necessary to discuss the validity of the sixth
section at any length. In view, however, of the fact that we
are now confronted with a specific arraignment of the sixth
section, and of the further fact that the courts below, in able
opinions, have h ld that the :section is fatally defective in
form and substance, we have lelt constrained to carefully
reconsider the question.
It is obvious, and we understand it to be conceded, that
neither the act, nor this particular part of it, can be assailed
because the subject-matter is outside of the power of Congress. But, while the general power to legislate exclusively
for the District of Columbia is not disputed, nor the coipetency of Congress, in the exercise of that power, to establish
a public park, it is contended that, under the limitation upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that power contained in the Fifth Amendment, protecting
the citizen from being deprived of life, liberty or property
without due process of law, Congress, when erecting a work
which is expressly declared to be perpetually dedicated to the
use and enjoyment of 'the people of the United States, should
defray the cost thereof out of the funds of the entire nation.

It is further contended in the brief of the appellees that a tax
for raising a fund for such a purpose to be valid ought to be
levied and apportioned as a direct tax, among the several
States according to their respective numbers. This latter
proposition, however, was not approved by the courts below,
and we need not discuss it. Craighill v. Van Riswick, 8 D. 0.
App. 185.
The reasoning upon which those courts proceeded seems to
have been that, upon general principles of constitutional law,
when the works, wh6se cost is to be defrayed by taxation, are
public, the public alone should pay for them, and the present
case is compared to one where, upon the erection of a court
house or post office, the private property of individuals adjacent to such structure should be specially taxed for the supposed greater convenience enjoyed of access thereto.
Upon a final analysis this proposition will be found to
resolve itself into a denial of the validity of special assessments
in any case where the.work in question is .undertaken by the
public authorities, without the express, assent or desire of the
property holders.
The effort made to distinguish between
streets and highways, as constituting proper subjects of taxation for special benefits, and public parks, as matters of such
a general nature as not to justify special assessment, does not
appear to us to be successful. Legislation of this character,
both in respect to its justice and its constitutional validity,
has been thoroughly discussed by the judicial tribunals of
nearly'every State in the Union. We shall briefly notice a
few of the leading cases.
By a statute of 1875 a board of park commissioners were
authorized to locate and lay out within the city of Boston a
public park, to take such lands as the board should deem
desirable therefor, and to assess upon any real estate in Bos-

WILSON v. LAMBERT.
Opinion of the Court.

ton which, in the opinion of the board, should receive any
benefit or advantage from such locating and laying out,
beyond the general advantages to all real estate in the city,
"a proportional share of the expense of such location and
laying out." The board purchased a large tract of fRats, over
part of whichthe tide flowed, the rest beihg marsh, and proceeded to lay out avenues and to fill them with gravel; and
when -but a small part of the area was filled, and none of the
avenues were completed, passed an order declaring thatthey
had taken, and did thereby take -and create a public park,
certaifi land, being in fact that already purchased, and also
passed a further order reciting that, whereas by the previous
order a park was located and laid out; they laid an assessment upon certain lands benefited thereby. It was held by
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, on a petition
for a writ of certiorari, by the owners of estates so assessed,
to quash the assessment, that the -park was laid out within the
statute, and that the court could not say, as matter of law,
that the estates of the petitioners had.not been benefited by
what had been done at the time the assessment was made.
Foster v. Park Commissioners of Boston, 133 Mass. 321;
-Holt v. Somerville, -127 Mass. 408.
In 1834, in pursuance of authority given by statute, the
common council of the city of Albany directed the opening of
a public square in that city. It was held by the Supreme
Court of the State of New York that the taking the grounds
of individuals in a city, to convert into a public square, is taking property for public use as much so as if such grounds
were converted into a street.; and the fact of the damages
being assessed upon the owners of .adjoining property,
instead of being levied as a general tax upon the city, is no
evidence that the property is not taken for public use. In
the opinion it was said by Chief Justice Savage:
"The second reason assigned against the constitutionality of
these proceedings is that the purposes for which the property
is thus taken are not public, because the benefit is limited to
and the expense assessed upon a few individuals. Private
property is takeh for public use -when it is appropriated to the

OCTOBER TERM-, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

common use of the public at large., A stronger instance can
not be given than that of a lot of an individual in a city converted into a street; the former owner has no longer any.
interest in or cohtrol over the property, but it becomes the
property of the public at large, and under the control of the
public authorities. A public square depends on the same
principle; it is for public use, whether it is intended to be
travelled upon or not. The mode of compensation for such
property.isnot iinportant. ' It was formerly out of the public
purse; but there is no injustice in requiring those individuals
to make compensation who receive from the improvement an
.equivalent or more in the enhanced value of their own adja-cent,property; and whether the number is large or small does
not affect-the question." Owners of Ground v. Albany, 15
Wend. 374.
So, in 1871, it was held by the Court of Appeals of New
York, in the case of the erection of a public park in the city
of Brooklyn, that lands taken for such a purpose are taken
for a public use, and the right to assess benefits upon adjacent
property was assumed as unquestionable. Brooklyn Park
Com. v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y. 234:; In re Hvew York Central Park,63 Barb. 982; S. C. 99. N. Y. 569. The validity
of laws authorizing the condemnation of lands for the purpose
of public parks has been .affirmed by the Supreme. Court of
Illinois, People v. Williams, 51 Illinois, 63; Cook v. South
Park Com., 61 Illinois, 115; West Chicago -Park Com. v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 103 Illinois, 33; and by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, -Mercer v. Pittsburgh,Fort Wayne f&
Chicago Railroad Co., 36 Penn. St. 99; and by the Supreme
Court of Missouri, St. Louis Co. v. Griswold, 58 IMissouri,
175. Numerous other cases to the game effect will be found
collected in Dillon's MWun. Corp. vol. 2, sec. 643, 4th ed.
That the act dedicates and sets apartthis park "for the benefit
and enjoyment of the peopleof the United States" does not, as
we think, male it so far a work sui generis as to take it out of
the range of the principles of the foregoing cases. The residents and property holders of the District of Columbia must
be regarded, -as, coming within the class of beneficiaries;

WIISON v. LAMBERT.
Opinion of the Court.

and, so far from being injured by the declaration that the
park shall also have a national character, it is apparent that
thereby the welfare of the inhabitants of the District will be
promoted. Whatever tends to increase the attractiveness of
the city of Washington, as a place of permanent or temporary
residence, will opeiate to enhance the value of the private
property situated therein or adjacent thereto.
If, then, there be no solid ground of distinction between
other works of public improvement and the public park designed by this legislation, as proper subjects for the application
of the rule of assessment for special behefits, it will not be
necessary for us to enter at large upon the subject apart from
that supposed distinction. That has been so recently and so
fully discussed by this court in the case of Bauman v. Ross,
167 U. S. 548, that nothing remains to be added. It may be
proper to observe that the decision in that case was not announced till after the judgment in the courts below in the
present case had been entered.
. Having reached the conclusion, then, that the sixth section
of the Rock Oeek Park Act is not invalid for want of conformity to constitutional principles, we think it follows that
the decrees of the courts below should be reversed, and the
bill of complaint be dismissed.
The other objections, so forcibly dwelt on, are all questions
of construction and administration, and should be permitted
to arise and be determined in the regular procedure 6f the court
to which *Congress has assigned the duty of carrying the provisions of the act into effect. It may turn out that the practical
difficulties anticipated may disappear when dealt with by that
court, to which power is given to "hear and determine all
matters connected with said assessment, and to revise, correct,
amend and conform said assessment, in whole or in part, or
order a new assessment." It does not yet appear that these
appellees will, when final action shall have been taken, have
any substantial grounds of complaint. The difficulties of construing the act are not necessarily in ihe act itself, but in its
application to the subject-matter. Its provisions are somewhat vague and obscure; and it is possible that further legis-

OCTOBER TERIAT, 1897.
Syllabus.

lation may be found requisite to carry out the intentions of
Congress. But such questions are not now before us for determination. Should errors supervene in the administration
of the act, parties affected will have redress by appeal.
We adopt the observation made in the dissenting opinion
in the Court of Appeals : "There can be no reason or propriety
in appealing to a court of equity to restrain proceedings that
are being condhcted in other, courts, competent to cbnstrue
the statutes under which they act, and to decide every question
that may arise in the course of the proceeding. To allow
litigations to be thus diverted tends to the multiplication of
litigation, and the production of unnecessary delay and expense
-to say nothing of the unnecessary vexation to parties."
*The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed; and the
caus is remanded with directions to. said court to reverse
the decree of the S'ireme Court of the .District.ofColumbia
and to remand the cause to that court with directionsto
dismiss the bill of complaint.

SIEPARD v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE' DISTRICT COURT OF TH.E UNITED STATES IfOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 184. Submitted December 2,189T.-Decided January8, 1898.

When the court below has not acquired jurisdiction over a defendant by
a valid service of process upon him, a judgment against him.can be reviewed here through a writ of error directly sued out to this court.'
While it was the undoubted purpose of Congress in enacting in the act of
June 1, 1872, c. 255, ยง 5, embodied in Rev. Stat. ยง 14, that the "practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other
than equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shill
conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings and forms and
modes of proceeding existing.at the time in like causes in the courts of
record in the State within which such Circuit or District Courts are
held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding," to bring about
a general uniformity in Federal and state proceedings in civil cases, and
to confer ulpon suitors in courts of the United States the advantage of

