HIGBILA._D AVE. RAILROAD v. EQUIPMENT CO.

627

Statement of the Case.

The general rule, under which was issued the summons by
which the plaintiff in error was brought into court, was
adopted by the District Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado on October 10, 1877, and it was in substantial conformity with the statute of Colorado then in force.
Several changes in the laws of Colorado, regulating forms of
procedure -and the times given for defendants to appear to
writs of summons, have been since enacted, but the District
Court has not seen fit to alter its rules, from time to tie, in
subserviency to such changes. We have a right td presume
that the discretion of the District Court was legitimately exercised in both adopting and maintaining the rule in question;
and its judgment is accordingly'
MR. JUSTICE WHnrE and MR. JUSTICE PEoimH X dissented.

HIGHLAND .AVTENUE AND BELT RAILROAD COMPANY v. COLUMBIAN EQUIPMENT COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 42T. Submitted November 29, 189T. -Decided

January 8, 1898.

An interlocutory order appointing a receiver is not appealable from the
Circuit Court of the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
does not become so by the incorporation into it of a direction to the
defendant, his agents and employ~s, to turn over and deliver to the receiver the property in his or their hands.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On April 5, 1897, upon
a bill duly filed by the Columbian Equipment Company, an
interlocutory order was entered in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, appointing Philip Campbell receiver of the property of the Highland
Avenue and Belt Railroad Company. Such order, besides the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

mere matter of appointment and a description of the property,
contained the following provisions:
"The-said receiver is hereby authorized and directed to take
immediate possession -of all and Jsingular the property above
described, wherever situated 'or found, and to continue systematicallyr, in,-the same manner as at present,, the business
and, occupation of 'carrying passengers and freight and the
.discharge of all the duties obligatory upon the said company.
"And the said Highland Avenue and Belt Railroad Company and each and every of its officers, directors, agents and
employ s are hereby required -and -commanided. forthwith to
turn over and deliver to such receiver, or his duly cbnstituted
representative, any and all n6tes, accounts, money or other
property in his or their hands, or under his or their control.
"Said receiver is hereby fully authorized to continue the
.business and operate the railway of said company and manage
all its property at his discretion in such manner as will, in hisjudgment, produce the most- satisfactory results consistent
with the discharge of the public duties imposed on said com-pany,and to collect and receive all income therefrom and all
debts due said company of every kind, and for such purpose
he is hereby invested with full power at his discretion to employ and discharge and. fix the. compensation of all such
officers, counsel, managers, agents and employ~s as may be
required for the proper discharge of the duties of his trust.
"Said receiver is hereby fully authorized, and empowered
to institute and prosecute all such suits as may be necessary in
his judgment to. the proper protection of the property and
trusts vested in him and likewise defend all actions instituted
against him as receiver, and also to appear in and conduct
the pirosecution or defence of any and all suits.or proceedings
now pending in any court against said company,-the prosecution or defence of which will, in the judgment of said receiver,
be necessary 'and proper for the protection. of the property
and rights -placed in his charge, and -for the interests of the
creditors and stockholders of said company.
"Said receiver is hereby required to give bond in the sum
of $10,000, with personal security, or the security ol some

HIGHLAND AVE. RAILROAD v. EQUIPMENT CO.

629

Opinion of the Court.

responsible guaranty and indemnity company, satisfactory jto
the clerk of this court, for the faithful discharge of his duties,
and is also required to make and file full reports in this court

quarterly.
"And the court reserves the right by orders hereinafter to

be made, to direct and control the payments of all supplies,
materials and other claims and in all respects to regulate and
control the conduct of said receiver."
The railroad company appealed from this order to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which court,
on June 16, 1897, certified-to. this court the following question:
"The question upon which instructions are desired and respectfully asked is: was the decree appointing Campbell receive,
above referred to, susceptible of being appealed from on the
ground that the said order embraced within its terms an injunction or the necessary equivalent of an injunction?"
.Mr. Alexander T.. London and .Mr. Samuel A. Putnamfor
Highland Avenue Belt Railroad Company.
.Mr. John, "F. Martin and -Mr. Henry D. flothkizs for
Columbian Equipment Company.
M . JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Is an interlocutory order appointing a receiver appealable
from the Circuit Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals? And
if such an order, standing alone, be not appealable, does it
become so by the incorporation into it of a direction to the
defendant, its officers, directors, agents and employ~s, to turn
over and deliver to the recdiver the property in their hands?
These questions must be determined by a consideration of. section 7 of the act, of March 3, 1891, c. 826, creating Circuit
Courts of A:ppeal, 26 Stat. 517, as amended February 18, 1895,
c. 96, 28 Stat. 666. The section provides ' That where, upon a hearing in equity in a. District Court
or a Circuit Court, an injunction shall be granted, continued,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

refused or dissolved by an interlocutory order or decree, or
an application to.dissolve an injunction shall be refused in a
'case in which an appeal from a final decree may be taken
under the provisions of this act to the Cifcuit Court of Appeals, an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order
or decree granting, continuing, refusing, dissolving or refusing to dissolve an injunction to the Circuit Court of Appeals:
Provided, That the appeal must be taken within thirty days
from the entry of such order or decree, and. it shall take precedence in the appellate court; and the proceedings in other
respects in the court below shall not be stayed unless otherwise ordered by that court during the pendency of such
appeal: And'robidedfurther,That the court below may in
its discretion require, as a condition of .the appeal, an additional injunction bond."
Under this section it has been decided that when an appeal
is taken from an interlocutory order or decree granting or
dissolving an injunction the whole of such interlocutory order
or de6ree is before the Court of Appeals for review, and not
simply that part which grants or dissolves the injunction, and
that on the hearing in the Court of Appeals that court may
consider and decide the case upon its merits. Smit/ v. "ulcan
Iron Tforks, 165 U. S. 518; In r.the Tampa Suburban Railroad Company, ante, 583. But each of those cases proceeded
upon the fact that there was a distinct order granting, con-.
tinuing or dissolving an injunction. In the case at bar there
is no such order. It is true, following the order of appointment, there is a direction to the defendant, its officers, directors and agents, to turn over to Campbell the property of
which he is appointed receiver, but that is only incidental and
ancillary to the receivership. This is obvious; for if the court
subsequently entered an order, in terms setting aside only the
appointment of the receiver, all the other parts of the original
order iould immediately and without specific mention disappear and cease to have any force. Indeed, the mere appointment of a receiver carries with it the duty on his part of
taking possession, and the further duty .of those in possession
of yielding such possession. So that while as a part of an

HIGHLAND AVE. RAILROAb v. EQUIPMENT CO.

631

Opinion of the Court.

order appointing a receiver there is something in the nature
of a -mandatory injunction, that is a command to the receiver
to take and to the defendant to surrender possession, yet such
command is not technically and strictly an order of injunction.
The last proviso in the section emphasizes this distinction:
"The court below may in its discretion require, as a condition
of the appeal, an additional injunction bond." The bond is
described. It is not a bond to secure against injuries which
may result if a receiver is wrongfully appointed or discharged, but is technically an injunction bond; that is, a
bond to answer for damages in case of a wrongful order either
granting, continuing or vacating an injunction. Receivership implies possession, and if no bond can be required to
guard against loss from taking or surrendering possession it
is difficult to perceive the significance of an additional injunc-.
tion bond in a receivership case. The question is not, whether.
included in an order appointing a receiver, there may not be,
either expressed or implied, some directions of a mandatory
character, something in the nature of an injunction, but
whether Congress in this legislation provided for appeals in
cases other than those in which an injunction, technically
speaking, is either the sole or a principal part of the order or
decree. Orders granting injunctions and orders appointing
receivers are, in the common understanding of the profession,
entirely independent. The distinction between the two is
clearly recognized in the text books and in the reports. We
have separate treatises on injunctions and on receivers. The
separation between them is one which runs through the law,
and while it is true that the mandatory features which, either
expressly or by implication, attend orders appointing receivers,
are sometimes made the matter of discussion in treatises on
receivers, or the subject of comment in decisions concerning
receivers, yet the distinction is never forgotten. Familiar, as
it must be assumed to have bden, with this generally recognized distinction, Congress, if it had intended that appeals
should be allowed from orders appointing receivers, as from
orders in respect to injunctions, would doubtless have expressly
named such orders. Its omission of the one and the men-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

tion of the other is a clear, declaration that only one should be
the subject of appeal and the other not. And it would savor
of judicial legislation to hold that, although 'Congress has not
authorized appeals from orders appointing receivers, the mere
fact that in such an order there is a direction of a mandatory
character, either expressed or implied, in respect to taking
possession, makes it appealable, as an order granting an
injunction.
For these -reasonswe are of opinion that the question should
be answeredin the negative, and it will be so certified to
the Court of Appeals.

HALL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.'
No. 812. Argifed November 29, 1997. -Decided

January3, 159.

The defendant, who was employed as a postal clerk at station F in the'
city of New York, was indicted under ReV. Stat. ยง 6467. The indictment
contained three counts; the first two under the first part of ยง 5467; the
third count under the last clause of that section. The evidence showed
that the Government detectives prepared a special delivery letter, designed as a test or 'decoy letter, containing marked bills, and delivered it,
bearing a special delivery stamp, to the night clerk in charge of branch
station F of the post office in this city. The defendant was not a letter
carrier, but a clerk employed at that office, whose duty it was to take
charge of, special delivery letters, enter them in a book kept for that
purpose and then place them in course of transmission. The letter in
question was addressed .to Mrs. Susan Metcalf, a fictitious person, 346
.E. 24th street, New York city, fictitious number. The letter was placed
by the night clerk with other letters upon the table where such letters
were usually placed, and the defendant, entering the office not long
after, took this letter, along with the others on the same table, removed
them to his desk, and properly. entered the other letters, but did not
enter this letter. On leaving the office not long after, the omission to
enter the letter having beeu'observed, he was arrested, and the money
contbnts of the letter, marked and identified by the officers, were found
upon his person. The officers testified upon'cross-examination that the
address was a fictitious one; that the letter was designed as a test letter,.

