144

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

was known to and acquiesced in by those in charge of the
train .as servants of the company; whether it was a dangerous act, from which injury to a person on the street might
reasonably be apprehended, and if so, whether there was a
failure on the part of the defendant to exercise reasonable
care, in view of all the circumstances; to prohibit the custom
and prevent the performance of the act.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the judgment
should be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, with directions to reverse the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Districtof columbia and to remand the case to that court with directions
to grant a new trial.

INTERSTATE COMMERGE COMMISSION v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 203. Argued March 12, 15, 16, 1897.-Decided November 8, 1697.
Cincinnati,New Orleans & Texas PacificRailway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati,
New Orleans & Texas Pacific Railway Company, 167 U. S. 479, adhered to,
to the points that Congress has not couf6rred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the legislative lower of prescribing rates, either
maximum, or minimum, or absolute; and that, as it did not give the
eipress power to the Commission, it did not intend to secure the same
result' indirectly by empowering that tribunal,, after having determined
what, in reference to the past, were reasonable and just rates, to obtain
from the courts a peremptory order that in the future the railroad companies should follow the rates thus determined to have been in the past
reasonable hnd just.
Competition is one of the most obvious and effective circumstances that
make the conditions, under which a long and short haul is performed,
'substantially dissimilar,'and as such must have been in the contempla-

INT. COA.

COM. v. ALABAMA

MIDLAN-TD Rl'Y.

145

Syllabus.
tion of Congress in the passage of the act to regulate commerce. This
Is no longer an open question in this court.
The conclusion which the court reached in Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145 U. S. 263, and Wight v. United States,
167 U. S. 512, that in applying the provisions of §§ 3, 4 of the Interstate
Commerce Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, making it unlawful for common carriers to make or give any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular person or locality, or to charge
or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation of passengers or of like kind of property, under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, for a shorter than for a longer distance
over the same line in the same direction, competition which affects rates
is one of the matters to be considered, is not applicable to the second
section of the act.
The purpose of the second section of that act is to enforce equality between
shippers over the same line, and to prohibit any rebate or other device
by which two shippers, shipping over the same line, the same distance,
under tlTe same circumstances of carriage, are compelled to pay different
prices therefor, and it was held in Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512,
that the phrase "under substantially similar circumstances and conditions," as used in the second section, refers to the matter of carriage,
and does not include- competition between rival routes.
This view is not open to the criticism that different meanings are attributed
to the same words when found in different sections of the act; for, as
the purposes .of the several sections are different, the phrase under consideration must be read, in the second section, as restricted to the case
of shippers over the same road, thus leaving no room for the operation
of competition, but in the other sections, which cover the entire tract of
interstate and foreign commerce, a meaning must be given to the phrase
wide enough to include all the facts that have a legitimate bearing on
the situation -among which is the fact of competition when it affects
rates.
The mere fact of competition, no matter what its character or extent, does
not necessarily relieve the carrier from the restraints of the third and
fourth sections; but these sections are not so stringent and imperative
as to exclude in all cases the matter of competition from consideration
in determining the questions of " undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage," or what are " substantially similar circumstances and con-"
ditions." The competition may in some cases be such, as, having due
regard toL the interests of the public and of the carrier, ought justly to
have effect upon the rates, and in such cases there is no absolute rule
which prevents the Commission or the courts from taking that matter
into consideration.
The conclusions of the court on this branch of the cage are: (1) that competition between rival routes is one 6f the matters which may lawfully
be considered in making rates for interstate commerce; and (2) that
substantial dissimilarity of circumstances* and conditions may justify
VOL. CLXVirr-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
common carriers in charging greater compensation for the transportation of like kinds of property for a shorter than for a longer distance
over the same line, in such commerce.
Whether, in particular instances, there has been an undue or unreasonable
prejudice or preferences or whether the circumstances and conditions
of tie carriage have been substantially similar or otherwise, are questions of fact depending on the matters proved in each case.
The Circuit Court bad jurisdiction to review the finding of the Interstate
Commerce Commission on these questions of fact, giving effect to those
findings as primafacie evidence of the matters therein stated; and this
court is not convinced that the courts below erred in their estimate of
the evidence, and perceives no error in the principles of law on which
they proceeded in its application.

ON the 27th day of June, 1892, the Board of Trade of Troy,
Alabama, filed a complaint before the Interstate Commerce
Commission at Washington, D. C., against the Alabama Midland Railway Company and the Georgia Central Railroad
Company and their connections, claiming that in the rates
charged for transportation of property by the railroad companies mentioned and their connecting lines there was a discrimination against the town of Troy, in violation of the
terms and provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act of Congress of 1887.
The general ground of complaint was, that Troy being in
active competition for business with Montgomery, the defendant lines of railway unjustly discriminated in their rates
against the former, and gave the latter an undue preference.
or advantage in respect to certain commodities and classes
of traffic. The specific charges insisted on at the hearing,
and to which the testimony related, were:
1. That the Alabama Midland Railway and the defendant
roads forming lines with it from Baltimore, New York and
the East to Troy and Montgomery charged and collected a
-higher rate of shipments of class goods from those cities to
Troy than on such shipments through T r"oy to Montgomery;
the latter being the longer distance point by fifty-two miles.
2. That the Alabama Midland Railway and Georgia Central Railroad and their connections unjustly discriminated
against Troy and in favor of Montgomery in charging and
collecting $3.22 per ton- to Troy on phosphate rock shipped

INT. COM. COMvI. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RY. 147
Statement of the Case.

from the South Carolina and Florida fields and only $3.00
per ton on such shipments to Montgomery, the longer distance
point by both of said roads; and that alr phosphate rock
carried from said fields to Montgomery over the road of the
Alabama Midland had to be hauled through Troy.
3. That the rates on cotton, as established by said two
roads and their connections, on shipments to the Atlantic
seaports, Brunswick, Savannah and Charleston, unjustly discriminated against Troy and in favor of Montgomery, in that
the rate per hundred pounds from Troy is forty-seven cents,
and that from Montgomery, the longer distance point, is
only forty cents, and that such shipments from Montgomery
over the road of the Alabama Midland had to pass through
Troy.
4. That on shipments for export from Montgomery and
other points, within the so called " jurisdiction" of the Southern Railway and Steamship Association to the Atlantic seaports, Brunswick, -Savannah, Charleston, West Point and
Norfolk, a lower rate was charged than the regular published
tariff rate to such seaports, and that Montgomery and such
other points vWere allowed by the rules of said association to
ship through to Liverpool via any of these seaports at the
lowest through rates on the day of shipment, which might be
less than the sum of the regular published rail rate and the
ocean rate via the port of shipment; that this reduction was
taken from the published tariff rail rate to the port of shipment; that, this privilege being denied to Troy, was an unjust
discrimination against that town in-favor of Montgomery and
such other favored cities, and that it was also a discrimination
against shipments which terminate at such seaports in favor
of shipments for export.
5. That Troy was unjustly discriminated against in being
charged on shipments of cotton via Montgomery. to New
Orleans the full local rate to Montgomery by both the Alabama Midland and Georgia Central.
6. That the rates on" class" goods from Western and-Northwestern points, established by the defendants forming lines
from those points to Troy, were relatively unjust and dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

criminatory as against Troy when compared with the rates
over such lines to Montgomery and Columbus.
,The Commission, having heard this complaint on the evidence theretofore taken, ordered, on the 15th day of August,
1893, the roads participating in the traffic involved in this
case "to cease and desist" from charging, demanding, collecting or receiving any greater compensation in the aggregate
for services rendered in such transportation than is specified,
as follows, to wit:
1. On class goods shipped from Louisville, Kentucky; Saint
Louis, Missouri, or Cincinnati, Ohio, to Troy aforesaid, no
higher rate of charge than is now charged and collected on
such shipments to Columbus, Georgia, and Eufaula, Alabama.
2. On shipments of cotton from Troy aforesaid through
Montgomery, Alabama, to New Orleans, Louisiana, no higher
rate of charg6 than fifty cents per hundred pounds.
3. On shipments of cotton- from Troy aforesaid for export
through the Atlantic seaports, to wit, Brunswick, Savannah,
Charleston, West Point or Norfolk, no higher rate of charge
to these ports than is charged and collected on such shipments
from Montgomery aforesaid.
4. On shipments of cotton from Troy aforesaid to the ports
of Brunswick, Savannah or Charleston, no higher rate of
charge than is charged and collected on such shipments from
Montgomery aforesaid through Troy to said ports.
5. On shipments of class goods from New York, Baltimore
or other Northeastern points to Troy aforesaid, no higher rate
of. charge than is charged and collected on such shipments
through Troy to Montgomery aforesaid.
6. On shipments of phosphate rock from South Carolina
and Florida felds to Troy aforesaid, no higher rate of charge
than is charged ad collected on such shipments through Troy
to Montgomery. aforesaid.
The defendants having failed to heed these orders, the Commission thereupon filed this bill of complaint in the Circuit
Court -of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama, in equity, to compel obedience to the same. On the
hearing in said court the bill of complaint was dismissed, and

INT. COM. COM.' v. ALABAMA MIDLAND IR'Y.

149

Argument for Appellant.

complainant, the Interstate Commerce Commission, appealed
the cause to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Judicial Circuit, at New Orleans, Louisiana. And,
thereupon, in said last-named court, on the 2d day of June,
1896, the decree of the said Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama was in all things
duly affirmed; and from this judgment and decree the appellaut appealed to this court.
.A. L. A. Shaver and .Mr. Ad istant Atorney General
.Whitney for appellant.
Ar. George F. Edmunds, on behalf of the appellant, on the
question of the jurisdictional power of the Interstate Conimerce Commission to make the order it did in this case, that
the charge exacted by the carriers in respect of the particular
goods in question should, not exceed a certain named sum
which the Commission, upon complaint, answers, issues, proofs
and hearing, found to be reasonable and just, filed the following brief.
I. It is submitted with respectful confidence that the interstate commerce law is in all its civil aspects a remedial one.,
At the time of its passage the railway carriers were the
absolute and irresponsible masters of all interstate commerce.
The several States, in trying to break up, or at least to mitigate, the unjust tyranny of these great corporations and combinations that held the largest part of the intercourse of the
people in their grasp (and which in many instances undertook
to control political as well as commercial affairs), found themselves baffled, and practically defeated in their efforts by the
national constitutional provision that only Congress could
regulate interstate commerce. In this state of affairs, and to
redress such enormous grievances, the Interstate Commerce
Act was passed for the intended benefit of the whole body of
the citizens of the Republic having a common grievance and
a common interest in the vast commercial intercourse between
all the States. This legislation was, therefore, in the very
highest sense, and to the last degree, remedial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

II. Being thus remidial, the statute ought to be construed
liberally to the attainment of the ends in view. Instead of
being given the narrowest possible application and construetion, it should, it is humbly submitted, be applied and construed by the judiciary in the largest latitude fairly consistent
with its language. It ought not to be frittered away by the
refinements of criticism, or made ineffectual because it does
not possess all the inclusive and exclusive qualities of a plea
in abatement, and may not be "certain to a certain intent in
every particular." It is, perhaps, questionable taste for the
bar to cite authority for this proposition, but it may be permitted to refer to a few of the vast number of the authorities
on the subject. Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627; Silver v.
,add, 7 Wall. 219; Beaston v. Farmere Bank, 12 Pet. 102;
United States v. Bank of North Carolina,6 Pet. 29; Bank
of United States v. Lee, 13 Pet. 107; Broom's Legal Maxims,
5th Am. ed. (3d London ed.) 80.
III. But the contention on the other side is that, while the
Commission has power to decide what shall not be done, it
has no power in the very same case to do complete justice by
declaring what shall be done by the carriers in the given matter. We may well quote here the language of Broom's Legal
Maxims: "Again, in construing an act of Parliament, it is a
settled rule of construction that cases o.ut of the letter of the
statute, yet within the same mischief or cause of the making,.
thereafter shall be within the remedy thereby provided; and,
accordingly, it is laid down that for the sure and true interpretation of all statutes (be they penal or beneficial, restrictive
or enlarging of the common' law) four things must be considered: (lst) What was the common law before the making of
the act; (2d) What was the mischief for which the common
law did not provide; (3d) What remedy has been appointed
by the legislature for such mischief; and (4th) The true reason of the remedy., And then the duty of the judges is to
put such a construction upon the statute as shall suppress the
mischief and advance the remedy- to suppress the subtle
inventions and evasions for" continuing the mischief pro Pri'vato commodo, and to add force and life to the curat and

INT. COM. COX. v. ALABAMA MKIDLAND R'Y.

151

Argument for Appellant.

remedy according to the true intent of the makers of the act,
_pro bono publico. In expounding remedial laws, then, the
courts will extend the remedy so far as fhe words will
admit." It is submitted that the words of the statute in
question do not require the application of the foregoing rules,
-being too plain for their application. If they are not, then
the rule should be applied.
IV. What, then, is the statute? At the risk of reiteration, I quote the crucial parts of some of the sections bearing
on the subject of this brief. Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
24: Stat. 379.
"SEc. 1. . . . All charges made for any services rendered
or to be rendered in the transportation of passengers or property as aforesaid, or in connection therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of such property, shall
be reasonable and just; and every unjust and unreasonable
charge for such service is prohibited and declared to be
unlawful.
"SEC. 2. That if any common carrier subject to the provi-

sions of this act shall, directly or indirectly, by any special
rate, rebate, drawback or other device, charge, demand, collect or receive from any person or persons a greater or less
compensation for any service rendered or to be rendered in
the transportation of passengers or property, subject to the
provisions of this act, than it charges, demands, collects or
receives from any other person or persons for doing for him
or them a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic, and under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, such common carrier shall be
deemed guilty of unjust.discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
"SEc. 3. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this act to make or give any undue
or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular
person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or
locality, or any particular description of traffic to any undue

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.
" SEO. 4. That, it shall be unlawful for any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this act to charge or receive any
greater.compensation in the aggregate for the transportation
of passengers or of like kind of property under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions for a shorter than a longer
distance over the same line, 'in the same direction.
"
SEes. 6 and 7 control the regulation of through rates, and
provide against devices to break up continuous transportation,
and for a general control of the Commission over that subject.
SEC. 9 provides that persons claiming to be damaged in respect of the matters embraced in the acts may complain to the
Commission.
SEC. 11 establishes the Commission, and secures to it a nonpartisan character and a freedom from private interest or bias.
"SEC. 12 [as amended by the act of March 2, 1889, c. 382,
25 Stat. 855]: That the Commission hereby created shall have
authority to inquire into the management of the business of
all common carriers subject to the provisions of this act, and
shall keep itself informed as to the manner and method in
which the same is conducted; and shall have the right to
obtain from such common carriers full and complete information necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties
and carry out the objects for which it was created; and the
Commission is hereby authorized and required to execute and
enforce the provisions of this act; .

.

. and for the pur-

poses of this act the Commission shall have power to require
by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and
the production of all .books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements and documents relating to any matter under investigation. .

."

"SEc. 13. That any person, firm, corporation or association,
or aniy mercantile, agricultural or manufacturing society, or
any body politic or municipal organization complaining of
anything done or omitted to be done by any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this act in contravention to the
provisions thereof, may apply to said Commission by petition,

INT. COM. COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RY.

153

Argument for Appellant.

which shall briefly state the facts; whereupon a statement of
the charges thus made shall be forwarded by the Commission
to such common carrier, who shall be called upon to satisfy
the complaint, or to answer the same in writing within a reasonable time, to be specified by the Commission. If such common carrier, within the time specified, shall make reparation
for the injury alleged to have been done, said carrier shall be
relieved of liability to the complainant only for the particular
violation of law thus complained of. If such carrier sh1l1 not
satisfy the complaint within the time specified, dr there' shall
appear to be any reasonable ground for investigating said
complaint, it shall be the duty of the Commission to investigate the matters complained of in such manner and by such
means as it shall deem proper.
"SEc. 14. That whenever an investigation shall be made by
said Commission, it shall be its duty to make a report in writing in respect thereto, which shall include the findings of fact
upon which the conclusions of the Commission are based,
together with its recommendation as to what reparation, if
any, should be made by the common carrier to any party or
parties who may be found to have been injured; and such
findings so made shall thereafter, in all judicial proceedings,
facie evidence as to each and every fact
be deemed primaf
found.
"S1Sc. 15. That if in any case in which an investigation
shall be made by said Commission it shall be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the Commission, either by the testimony
of witnesses or other evidence, that anything has been done or
omitted to be done in violation of the provisions of this act,
or of any law cognizable by said Commission, by any common
carridr, or that any injury or damage. has been sustained by
the party or parties complaining, or by other parties aggrieved
in consequence of any such violation, it shall be the duty of
the Commission to forthwith cause a copy of its report in respect thereto to be delivered to such common carrier, together
with a notice to said common carrier to cease and desist from
such violation, or to make reparation for the injury so found
to have been done, or both. . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

"SEc. 16. That whenever any common carrier as defined
in and subject; to the provisions of this act, shall violate, or
refuse or neglect to obey or perform any lawful order or
requirement of the Commission created by this act,
it shall be lawful for the Commission, or for any company
or person interested in such order or requirement, to apply in
a summary way, by petition to the Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting in equity,
alleging such violation7 or disobedience, as the case may be; and the court shall
have power to hear and determine the matter, on such short
notice to the common carrier complained of as the court shall
deem reasonable; . . . and said court shall proceed to
hear and determine the matter speedily as a court of equity
. . . in such manner as to do justice in the premises;
and to this end such court shall have power, if it think fit, to
direct and prosecute in such mode, and by such persons as it
may appoint, all such inquiries as the court may think needful
to enable it to form a just judgment in the matter of such
petition. . .
These sections, by general, comprehensive and specific language (only short, possibly, of the inclusive and exclusive
strictness and fulness required in pleas in abatement at common law), place within the jurisdictional power and duty of
the Interstate Commerce Commission the investigation, hearing and determination of all questions of dispute between the
public and its component citizens and localities and the carriers. There is no limitation of the clear phrases of these
various sections. The duty of the carrier is set forth in all its
aspects, both of affirmative duty and of prohibition. The first
section requires that "all charges shall be reasonable and
just." The second section prohibits special personal favoritism by secret devices. The third section prohibits preferences
between persons or localities and kinds of traffic. The fourth
section prohibits charging more for a shorter than for a longer
distance. Th e twelfth section provides that the Commission
shall have authority to "inquire into the management of the
business of all common carriers," and that "the Commission
is hereby authorized and required to execute and enforce the

INT. COM. COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RI'Y.

155

Argument for Appellant.

provisions of this act." There is no part of it ihat the statute
does not expressly require the Commission to cause to be completely executed. The method of this execution is pointed out
by the prescribed modes of procedure provided for in sections
13, 1.4, 15 and 16. And all this to be done on due application, under due procedure of notice, evidence and hearing of
all the parties. How, then, can it be said by the most hypercritical refiner that the Commission has no jurisdiction to decide, for instance, what is "reasonable and just" as provided
in sedtion 1? Has the Commission only the power t6 repeat
the words of the statute, and say to the carrier proved to be
guilty of extortion, "You must desist from extortion, and be
reasonable and just" . Would not that be a palpable mockery of either administrative or judicial justice?
If the statute had contained only the first and twelfth sections
with the procedure sections, could this court doubt the power of
the Commission to decide the matter, and require the very conduct on the part of the carrier that the Commission had found
to be "reasonable and just?" To hold otherwise would be to
ignore and flout the plainest possible use of language, if the
statute be within the competence of Congress to pass.
But the rightful power of Congress to enact the law is not
disputed. That the legislative department of any government, state or national, has power to regulate the conduct of
any full or quasi public business, is too obvious for discussion. State legislatures, in respect of their internal commerce and polity, possess, and have always exercised, the
power of controlling all such business through agents (by
whatever names they may be called), to whom is deputed the
execution of the sovereign will according to the principles
and rules laid down by the legislative power. The innumerable instances of this need not be cited. Indeed, government could not be, and it never has been, carried on in any
other way.
Again: section 2 prohibits the unjust discrimination between persons, i.e., between the traffic that citizens may be
engaged in, or between citizens engaged in the same traffic.
The Commission is, by the proper methods of procedure, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

4.enforce" thisprovision. Is the power of the Commission exhausted in saying to the discriminating carrier, "You shall not
discriminate," and stop there? Must it not say, if it does its
duty in enforcing the act and redressing the grievances found
to exist, that it will enforce the: law by deciding what the nature
and degree of the discrimination is, and by requiring that such
degree of discrimination shall be effaced altogether by affirmative conduct of equality, or by a charge of no more than the
ascertained rightful sum, to the parties aggrieved?
Without referring in detail to the other provisions df the
statute above quoted, it is safe to say that the plain purpose
and clear, comprehensive language of the act show that the
whole and all of the duties and oblIgations of the carrier to
its customers and toward localities, etc., are to be enforced
by the Commission; not a part of them, not a half of any of
them, but all and every part of all of them. It is like algebra, in which neither side of the equation can possibly be
considered or worked without the other. A complaint may
be filed. before the Commission (as in this case) alleging that
the carrier ought not to charge for a described service more
than the just and reasonable sum of fifty cents the hundred
pounds, while, in fact, it is exacting one dollar the hundred
pounds. Suppose the carrier appears and confesses that fifty
cents per hundred is a reasonable and just price and that-it
dpes exact one dollar, but insists that the Commission has no
jurisdiction to .require the confessed reasonable charge to be
made, and that it only has jurisdiction to require the cessation of the 'one dollar exaction, thus leaving the carrier to
continue to plunder its customers of forty-nine cents per hundred with absolute impunity, as far as the Commission is concerned, until a new complaint shall have been instituted and
the forty-nine cent charge again declared to be unreasonable.
That this is shocking to all our natural sense of justice no one
can dispute. Why, then, should the broad, comprehensive,
and specific language of the statute be "cabined, cribbed,
confined" to produce such a state of the law? The citation
from Broom may be well remembered in this connection.
The statute certainly requires the carrier to refrain from

INT. COM. COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND R'.

15T

Argument for Appellant.

exacting more than a reasonable price (section 1); to refrain
from drawbacks, rebates, etc., and all other unjust discriminations (section 2); to refrain from giving preferences or unequal
advantages to persons or localities (section 3); to refrain from
exacting more for a short than for a long haul (section 4); -to
refrain from all devices to break up continuous passage from
road to road .(section 7). I repeat in this connection that section 12 provides that the Commission shall have authority to
"inquire into the management of the business," etc., and to
obtain "full and complete information necessary to perform
the duties and carry out the objects for which it was created." And I repeat the inquiry, what were the duties and
objects for which it was creatied? The same section answers
the question in terms so clear that neither cavil nor sophistry
can confuse or obscure them.
V. But it is said that the Commission is not a judicial
body, and cannot exercise judicial powers. Granted in the
strict sense of the terms; but, in every civilized country,
administrative officers have always lawfully exercised many
powers, in every department of government, which are in their
nature judicial; for every power which involves the exercise
of judgment, opinion and decision is of that nature. Such
are the powers exercised by the Secretary of the Interior as
to many land questions; the Secretary, of the Treasury and
some of his subordinates, as to customs, etc.; the various Commissions that have existed from time to time for nearly a
century to settle land claims; and many others.
That Congress had the power to establish interstate "rates"
in the largest sense of the word cannot be doubted. And that
it had the power to establish a Commission to do the same
thing is, it is submitted, equally clear. It is assumed, for the
purpose of this case, that it did neither in the sense to which
I am now referring. It adopted a policy short of this, and
provided clear descriptions and requirements concerning the
duties of the carriers in all the aspects that touch their conduct toward their patrons and- toward the localities and
sections of the country; and established the Commission to
execute and enforce all these provisions -not a part of them,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

and not a part of any one of them; not negatively merely,
but affirmatively and fully, to the end that real conformity
by the carrier to the requirements of the act should be obtained, and as the act declares, obtained speedily, by procedure formal and ceremonious, in which all parties in interest
were to-be heard ; and it provided for a decision of the particular question and the particular grievance thus brought to
the attention of the Commission and examined by it; and in
case of refusal to obey, the act provided for -a suit to be
brought in a judicial court of "equity," which court is requi red "to hear and determine the matter speedily as a court
of equity," with all that the phrase implies. The Commission
is to inquire into "anything done or omitted to be done" by
any common carrier subject to the provisions of the act in
contravention to the provisions thereof; and it authorized the
Commission to require the carrier to "satisfy the complaint,"
or answer; and then, after hearing, to require the carrier
"to cease and desist from such violation, .or to make reparation, or both." How can this be done 'short of a decision
upon the whole matter? To again illustrate, let it be supposed that the sole complaint was that the carrier was exacting double what was just and reasonable for a particular
service, and that this, on due notice to both sides, was found
to be true. This would be a palpable violation of the act. But
the Commission is authorized to require the carrier to cease
and desist from doing that very wrong. Does the carrier do
so unless and until he reduces his exaction to the true point of
justice. and reason? To hold otherwise would be, it is submitted, trifling both with grammar and common justice. If
the statute had conferred the very same powe, and in the
very same words, upon a court of equity instead of the Commission, could the power of the court to redress the whole
grievance be doubted? But the admitted power of the Commission to command the desistance from a charge of one hundred cents per hundred' pounds is no less "judicial" than a
requirement not to charge more than the sum found to be reasonable and just. And the two things are precisely the same
in principle and legal effect, and are inseparable.

INT. COM. COX. v. ALABATVJA MIDLAND R'Y.

159

Argument for Appellant.

On the subject of "reparation" provided for in section 3, I
*ooserve again that this section is to be enforced by the Commission. How is this possibly to be done, otherwise than by
commanding action by the carriers suited to the nature of the
case, so as to obliterate the whole undue preference, etc., and
how possibly otherwise can reparation be made to a locality ?
Reparation means "restoration" of the right. No such exercise of the power by the Commission is either "fixing rates"
or prejudging a matter, as referred to by Mr. Iustice Shiras
in the Social Circle case.
VI. The words "lawful order" mean an order the Commission has jurisdiction to make. An order may be lawful
and at the same time erroneous, so that if the Commission
made an order in a matter over which they had jurisdiction,
which was merely an error of judgment as to precisely the
degree of reparation, for instance, the carrier ought to make,
the order would still be lawful. In such a case the court is to
"hear and determine the matter," that is, the whole subject,
"as a court of equity, . . . in such manner as to do justice in the premises"; that is, complete justice in the whole
premises. "Premises" is not merely the particular order
that the Commission has made, but it is the whole subject
that had been duly brought before the Commission and on
due notice and hearing had been acted upon. It is that duty
which rested with the Circuit Court and is now imposed upon
this court.
All the preceding action described is not "fixing rates" in
the sense that state commissioners of railways are authorized
by their legislatures to establish general rates for all classes
and for all railways, as is contended for by the defendants.
We make no such claim. The action of the Commission, and
the action of this court, on what is really an appeal from and
a review of its judgment, is the trial and determination of
a particular case, and determining for that particular case
what the conduct of the carrier shall be in respect of the particular dispute involved in it. It is the exertion of no general
power to prejudge or to fix rates, nor is it the exertion of any
power to fix rates in general. If this distinction be observed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Appellant.

there is no difficulty whatever.

This is precisely in accord

with what Yr. Justice Shiras said. After stating what had
happened before the Commission and stating that in the
Circuit Court evidence was introduced which had not been
laid before the Commission, showing that the rate to Birmingham had been forced down by the coming in of a new
competitive road, and that the Circuit Court ha& thereupon
found that the evidence was sufficient to overcome the findings of the Commission, and that the rate complained of was
not unreasonable; and after stating that the Circuit Court of
Appeals had adopted the views of the Circuit Court in respect
of the reasonableness of the rate from Cincinnati to Atlanta,
and "as both courts found the existing rate to have been
reasonable, we do not feel disposed to review their finding on
the matter of fact," he then condemned the conduct of the
carriers in lying by. He then says, "Whether Congress intended to confer upon the Interstate Commerce Commission
the power to itself fix rates was mooted" in the courts below
and is discussed in the briefs of counsel." He says, "We
do not find any provision in the act which expressly or by
necessary implication confers such power," etc. He then
says, "The reasonableness of the rate .in a given case depends on facts, and the function of the Commission is to
consider these facts and give them the proper weight. If the
Commission, instead of withholding judgment in such a matter until an issue shall be made and the facts found, itself fix
a rate, that rate is prejudged by the Commission to be reasonable." In this proposition we entirely concur ; but in this
case the identical question was raised by the petitions, an
issue was made, evidence was taken on both sides, and the
facts found, so that, the sum fixed as reasonable by the Commission was not prejudged. And he adds that "Subject to
the two leading prohibitions that their charges shall not be
unjust and unreasonable, and that they shall not unjustly discriminate so as to give undue preference or advantage, or subject to -undue prejudice or disadvantage persons or traffic
similarly circumstanced, the act to regulate commerce leaves
common carriers as they were at common law." Here again

INT. COM. CON1.

v. ALABAMA: MIDLAIND RhY.

161

Opinion of the Court.

it will be seen that reasonableness and unreasonableness, justice and injustice, preference, advantage, prejudice, disadvantage are the very subjects that he says are within the
competence of the Commission to determine. If the Supreme
Court had been of opinion that the action of the Commission
in its decision in regard to the Atlanta rate was beyond its
jurisdictional power, they would have so said, and affirmed
the judgment on that ground; but in distinct terms they
affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court and the Court of
Appeals upon the express ground that the Commission was in
error in its finding of fact.
VII. The judiciary of the Uhited States have recently
been able, without the special aid of any act of Congress,
to preserve the interstate carriers from being despoiled by
unlawful interference with their operations. It is to be hoped
for the good name of Congress and for the public welfare and
contentment that the same judiciary will find that Congress
-has adequately provided for protecting the people from being
despoiled by the carriers, and that it is within the clear competence of the Commission and the courts to make these provisions effectual.
Mr. Edward Baxter for appellees.
.Mr. A. A. WHley filed a brief for appellees and for the
Savannah, Florida and Western Railway Company.
MR. JusTicE SumAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Several of the assignments of error complain of the action
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in not rendering a decree
for the enforcement of those portions of the order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission which prescribed rates, to
be thereafter charged by the defendant companies, for services performed in the transportation of goods.
Discussion of those assignments is rendered unnecessary by
the recent decisions of this court, wherein it has been held,
VOL. CLXVMI-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

after elaborate argument, that Congress has not conferred
upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the legislative
power of prescribing rates, .either maximum, or minimum, or
absolute; and that, as it did not give the express power to
the Commission, it did not intend to secure the same result
indirectly by empowering that tribunal, after having determined what, in reference to the past, were reasonable and
jhst rates, to obtain from the courts a peremptory order that
in the future the railroad companies should follow the rates
thus determined to have been in the past reasonable and just.
Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific !Railwayv. Interst'ate Commerce Comnmission, 162 U. S. 184; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas
Pacific Railway, 167 U. S. 479.
Errors are likewise assigned to the action of the court in
having failed and refused to affirm and enforce the report
and opinion of the Commission, wherein it was found and
decided, among other things, that the defendants, common
carriers which participate in the transportation of class goods
to Troy from Louisville, St. Louis and Cincinnati, and from
New York, Baltimore and other Northeastern points, and the
defendants, common carriers which participate in the transportation of phosphate rock from South Carolina and Florida
to Troy, and the defendants, common carriers which participate in the transportation of cotton from Troy to the ports of
New Orleans, Brunswick, Savannah, Charleston, West Point
or Norfolk, as local shipments or for export, have made
greater charges, under substantially similar circumstances and
conditions, for the shorter distance to or from Troy than for
longer distances over the same lines in the same direction,
and have unjustly discriminated in rates against Troy; and
subjected said.place and dealers and shippers therein to undue
and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage in favor of
Montgomery, Eufaula, Columbus and other places and localities and dealers and shippers therein, in violation of the
provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
Whether competition between lines of transportation to
Montgomery, Eufaula and Columbus justifies the giving .to

INT. COX. COX. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND R'Y.

163

Opinion of the Court.

those cities a preference or advantage in rates over Troy,
and, if so, whether such a state-of facts justifies a departure
from equality of rates without authority from the Interstate
Commerce Commission under the proviso to the fourth section of. the act, are questions of construction of the statute,
and are to be determined before we reach the question of
fact in this case.
It is contended, in the briefs filed on behalf of the Interstate Commission, that the existence of iival lines of transportation and, consequently, of competition for the traffic,
are not facts to be considered by the Commission, or by the
courts, when determining whether property transported over
the same line is carried under "substantially similar circumstances and conditions," as that phrase is found in the fourth
section of the act.
Such, evidently, was not the construction put upon this
provision of the statute by the Commission itself in the
present case; for the record discloses that the Commission
made some allowance for the alleged dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions, arising out of competition and situation, as affecting transportation to Montgomery and Troy
respectively, and that, among the errors assigned, is one
complaining that the court erred in not holding that the rates
prescribed by the Commission in its order made due allowance
for such dissimilarity.
So, too, in In re .ouisville & Ndshville Railroad,1 Int.
0.C. Rep. 31, 78, in discussing the long and short haul clause,
it was said by the Commission, per Judge Cooley, that "it
is impossible to resist the coficlusion that in finally rejecting the 'long and short haul clause' of the House bill, which
prescribed an inflexible rule, not to be departed from in any
case, and retaining in substance the fourth section as it had
passed the Senate, both houses understood that they were not
adopting a measure of strict prohibition in respect to charging more for the shorter than for the longer distance, but
that they were, instead, leaving the door open for exceptions
in certain cases, and, among others, in cases where the circumstances and conditions of the' traffic were affected by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

element of competition, and where exceptions might be a
necessity if the competition was to continue. And water
competition was beyond doubt especially in view."
It is, no doubt, true that in a later case, Railroad Commission of Georgia v. Clyde Steamship Co., 5 Int. C. C. Rep. 326,
the Commission somewhat modified their holding in the
Louisville and Ndshville Railroad Company case, just cited,
by attempting to restrict the competition, that it is allowable
to consider, to the cases of competition with water carriers,
competition with foreign railroads, competition with railroad
lines wholly in a single State; but the principle that competition in such cases is to be considered is affirmed.
That competition is one of the most obvious and effective
circumstances that make the conditions, under which a long
and short haul is' performed, substantially dissimilar, and as
such must have been in the contemplation of Congress in the
passage of the act to regulate commerce, has been held by
many of the Circuit Courts. It is sufficient to cite a few of
the number: Ex _parte -Koehler, 31 Fed. Rep. 315; .Missouri
Pacif§c Railway v. Texas & Pacific Railway, 31 Fed. Rep.
862; Interstate "Con. Com. v. Atchison, Topek &c. Railroad, 50 Fed. Rep. 295; Same v. New Orleans d Texas
Pacij Railroad, 56 Fed. Rep. 925, 943; Behlmer v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad, 71 Fed. Rep. 835; Int. Com.
Com. v. Louisville & NTashville Railroad,73 Fed. Rep. 409.
In construing statutory provisions, forbidding railway companies from giving any undue or unreasonab.e preference or
advantage to or in favor of any particular person or company,
or any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatever, the English courts have held, after full consideration,
that competition between rival lines is a fact to be considered,
and that a preference or advantage thence arising is not
necessarily undue or unreasonable. Denaby "ain Colliery
Co. v. Manchester, She~field & Lincolnshire Railway, 11 App.
Cas. 97; Phips v. London & North Western Railway, 2
Q. B. D. 1892, 229.
But the question whether competition as affecting rates is
an element for the Commission and the courts to consider in

INT. COML COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAN)

RM'Y.

165

Opinion of the Court.

applying the provisions of the act to regulate commerce, is not
an open question in this court.
In Interstte Com. Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145 U. S. 263, it was said, approving observations made
by Jackson, Circuit Judge, (43 Fed.. Rep. 37,) that the act to
regulate commerce was "not designed to prevent competition
between different roads, or to interfere with the customary
arrangements made by railway companies for reduced fares in
consideration of increased mileage, where such reduction did
not operate as an unjust discrimination against other persons
travelling over the road. In other words it was not intended
to ignore the principle that one chin sell at wholesale cheaper
than at retail; that it is not all discriminations or preferences
that fall within the inhibition of the statute, only such as are
unjust or unreasonable;" and, accordingly, it was held that
the issue by a railway company, engaged in interstate commerce, of a "party-rate ticket" for the transportation of ten
or more persons from a place situated in one State or Territory to a place situated in another State or Territory, at a rate
less than that charged to a single individual for a like transportation on the same trip, does not thereby make "an unjust
or unreasonable charge" against such individual within the
meaning of the first section of the act to regulate commerce;
nor make "an unjust discrimination" against him within the
meaning of the second section; nor give "an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage" to the purchasers of the
party-rate ticket within the meaning of the third section.
In Texas & Pa l Railway v. Interstate Com. Coin., 162
U. S.197, it was held that "inpassing upon questions arising
under the act, the tribunal appointed to enforce its provisions,
-whether the Commission or the courts, is empowered to fully
consider all the circumstances and conditions that reasonably
apply to the situation, and that, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, the tribunal may and should consider the legitimate
interests as well of the carrying companies as of the traders
and shippers, and in considering whether any particular locality is subjected to an undue preference or disadvantage, the
welfare of the communities occupying the localities where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

goods are delivered is to be considered as well as that of
the communities which are'in the locality of the place of
shipment; that among the circumstances and conditions to be
considered, as well'in the case of traffic originating in foreign
ports as in the case of traffic originating within the limits of
the United States, competition that affects rates should be
considered, and in deciding whether rates and charges, made.
at a low rate to secure foreign freights which would otherwise go by other competitive routes, are or are not undue and
unjust, the fair interests of the carrier companies and the welfare of the community which is to receive and consume the
commodities are to be considered."
To prevent misapprehension, it should be stated that the
conclusion to which we are led by these cases, that, in applying the provisions of the third and fourth sections of the act,
which make it unlawful for common carriers to make or give
any undue or uireasonable preference or advantage to any
particular person or locality, or to charge or receive any
greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation
of passengers or of like kind of property, under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, for a shorter than for a
longer distance over the same line, in the same direction, competition which affects rates is one of the matters to be considered, is not applicable to the second section of the act.
As we have shown in the recent case of Wight v. United
States, 167 U. S. 512, the purpos6 of the second section is to
enforce equality between shippers over the same line,.and to
prohibit any rebate or other device by which two shippers,
shipping over the same line, the same distance, under the
same circumstances of carriage, are compelled to pay differeit prices therefor; and we there held that the phrase "under
substantially similar circumstances and conditions," as used
in the second section, refers to the matter of carriage, and
does -notinclude competition between rival routes.
This view is not open to the criticism that different meanings are attributed to the same words when found in different
sections of the act; for what we hold is that, as the purposes of the several sections are different, the phrase under

INT. COM. COA.

v. ALABAMA MIDLAND R'Y.

167

Opinion of the Court.

consideration must be read, in the second section, as restricted
to the case of shippers over the same road, thus leaving no
room for the operation of competition, but that in the other
sections, which cover the entire tract of interstate and foreign commerce, a meaning must be given to the phrase wide
enough to include all the facts that have a legitimate bearing
on the situation -among which we find the fact of competition when it affects rates.
In order further to guard against any misapprehension of
the scope of our decision it may be well to observe that we do
not hold that the mere fact of competition, no matter what.
its character or extent, necessarily relieves the carrier from
the restraints of the third and fourth sections, but only that
these sections are not so stringent and *imperative as to exclude in all cases the matter of competition from consideration in determining the questions of "undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage," or what are "substantially similar
circumstances and conditions." The competition may in some
cases be such as, having due regard to the interests of the
public and of the carrier, ought justly to have effect upon the
rates, and in such cases there is no absolute rule which prevents the commission or the courts from taking that matter
into consideration.
It is further contended, on behalf of the appellant, that the
courts below erred in holding, in effect, that competition of
carrier with carrier, both subject to the act to regulate commerce, will justify a departure from the rule of the fourth
section of the act without authority from the Interstate Commerce. Commission, under the proviso to that section.
In view of the conclusion hereinbefore reached, the proposition comes to this, that, when circumstances and conditions
are substantially dissimilar, the railway companies can only
avail themselves .of such a situation by an application to the
Commission.
The language of the proviso is as follows:
"That upon application to the Commission appointed under
the provisions of this act, such common carrier may, in special
cases, after investigation by the Commission, be authorized to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

charge less for longer than shorter distances for the transportation of passengers or property, and the Commission may
from time to time prescribe the extent to which such designated common carrier may be relieved from the operation of
this section of this act."
The claim now made for the Commission is that the only
body which has the power to relieve railroad companies from
the operation of the long and short haul clause on account
of the existence of competition, or any other similar element
which would make its application unfair, is the Cpmmission
itself, which is bound to consider the question, upon application by the railroad company, but whose decision is discretionary and uinreviewable.
The first observation that occurs on this proposition is that
there appears to be no allegation in the bill or petition raising
such an issue. The gravamen of the complaint is that the
defendant companies have continued to charge and collect a
greater compensation for services rendered in transportation
*of property than is prescribed in the order of the Commission.
It was not claimed that the defendants were precluded from
showing in the courts that the difference of rates complained
of was justified by dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions, by reason of not having applied to the Commission to be
relieved from the operation of the fourth section.
Moreover, this view of the scope of the proviso to the fourth
section does not appear to have ever been acted upon or enforced by the Commission. On the contrary, in the case of
n Pe Iouisville & _Yashville Railroadv. Interstate Com. Com.,
1 Int. C. C. IRep. 31, 57, the Commission, through Judge Cooley,
said, in speaking of the effect of the introduction into the
fourth section, of the words "under- substantially similar circumstances and conditions," and of the meaning of the proviso: "That which the aft does not declare unlawful must
remain lawful if it was so before, and that which it fails to
forbid, the carrier is left at liberty to do, without permission
of any one..
.
. The charging or- receiving the greater
compensation for the shorter than for the longer haul is seen
to be forbidden only when both are under substantially similar

INT. COX. COM. v. ALABAMA

IDLAND R'Y.

169

Opinion of the Court.

-circumstances and conditions; and, therefore, if in any case
the carrier, without first obtaining an order of relief, shall
depart from the general rule, its doing so will not alone co nvict
it of illegality, since, if the circumstances and conditions of the
two hauls are dissimilar, the statute is not violated.
Beyond question, the carrier must judge for itself what are
the ' substantially similar circumstances and conditions ' which
preclude the special rate, rebate or drawback, which is made
unlawful by the second section, since no tribunal is empowered to judge for it until after the carrier has acted, and then
only for the purpose of determining whether its action constitutes a violation of law. The carrier judges on peril of
the consequences; but the special rate, rebate or drawback
which it grants is nbt illegal when it turns out that, the circumstances and conditions were not such as to forbid it; and
as Congress clearly intended this, it must also, when using the
same words in the fourth section, have intended that the carrier, whose privilege was in the same way limited by them,
should in the same way act upon its judgment of the limiting
circumstances and conditions."
The view thus expressed has been adopted in several of the
Circuit Courts: Interstate Com. Corn. v. Atchison, Topeka &c.
Railroad,.50 Fed. Rep. 295, 300; Same v. Cincinnati,N. 0.
and Tex. .Pac.Railway, 56 Fed. Rep. 925, 942; Beh rner v.
Zouisville &._Nashville Railroad,71 Fed. Rep. 835, 839; and
we do not think the courts below erred in following it in
'the present case. We are unable to suppose that Congress
intended, by the fourth section and the proviso thereto,, to
forbid common carriers, in cases where the circumstances and
conditions are substantially dissimilar, from making different
rates until and unless the Commission shall authorize them
so to do, much less do we think that it was the intention of
Congress that the decision of the Commission, if applied to,
could not be reviewed by the courts. The provisions of section 16 of the act, which authorize the court to "proceed to
hear and determine the matter speedily as a court of equity,
and without the formal pleadings and proceedings applicable,
to ordinary suits in equity, but in such manner as to do jus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tice in the premises, and to this end, such court shall have
power, if it think fit, to direct and prosecute in such mode
and by such persons as it may appoint, all such inquiries as
-the,court may think needful to enable it to form a just judgment in the matter of such petition," extend as well to an
ipimry or proceeding under the fourth section 'asto those
arising under the other sections of the act.
Upon these conclusions, that competition between rival
routes is\one of"the matters which may lawfully be considered in making rates, and that substantial dissimilarity of
circumstances and conditions may justify common carriers in
charging greater compensation -for the transportation of like
kinds of property for a shorter than for a longer distance
over the same line, we are brought to-consider whether, upon
the evidence in the present case, the courts below erred in
disinissing the Interstate Commerce Commission's complaint.
As the third section of the act, which forbids the making
or giving any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage
to any particular person or locality, does not define what,
under that section, shall constitute a preference or advantage
to be undue or unreasonable, and as the fourth section, which
forbids the charging dr receiving greater compensation in the
aggregate for the transportation of like kinds of property for
a shorter than for a longer distance.over the same line, under
substantially similar circumstances and conditions, 'does not
define or describe in what the similarity or dissimilarity of
circumstances and conditions shall consist, it cannot be doubted
that whether, in particular instances, 'there has been an undue
.or unreasonable prejudice or preference, or whether the circumstances and conditions of the carriage have been substantially similar or otherwise, are questions of fact depending on
the matters proved in each case. Denaby .Main Colliery Company v. Manchester &eo. Railway Co., 3 Railway & Canal
Traffic Cases, 426 ; Phi s v. London & North Western Railway, .1892, 2 Q. B. D. 229; Cincinnati, N. 0. & Tex. 1Pac.
Railway v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S. 184, 194:; Texas
and Pacific Railway v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S. 197,
235.

INT. COX. COMI

v. ALABAMA MIDLAND RWY.

171

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court, after a consideration of the evidence,
expressed its conclusion thus:
In any aspect of the case it seems impossible to consider
this complaint of the Board of Trade of Troy against the
defendant railroad companies, particularly the Midland and
Georgia Central railroads, in the matter of the charge upon
property transported on their roads to or from points east or
west of Troy, as specified and complain:ed of, obnoxious to
the fourth or any other section of the interstate commerce
act. The conditions are not substantially the same and the
circumstances are dissimilar, so that the case is not within the
statute. The case made here is not the case as it was made
before the Commission. New testimony has been taken, and
the conclusion reached is that the bill is not sustained; that it
should be dismissed, and it is so ordered." 69 Fed. Rep. 227.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in affirming the decree of
the Circuit Court, .used the following language:.
"Only two railroads, the Alabama Midland and the Georgia
Central, reach Troy. Each of these roads has connection with
other lines, parties hereto, reaching all the long-distance markets mentioned in these proceedings. The Commission finds
that no departure from the long and short haul rule of the
fourth -section of the statute as against Troy as the shorter
distance point, and in favor of Montgomery as the longer distance point, appears to be chargeable to the Georgia Central.
The rates in question when separately considered, Are not unreasonable or unjust. As a matter of business necessity they
are the same by each of the railroads that reach Troy. The
Commission concludes that, as related to the rates to Montgomery, Columbus and Eufaula, the. rates to and from Troy
unjustly discriminate against Troy and in the case of the
Alabama Midland violate the long and short haul rule.
"The population and volume of business at Montgomery
are many times larger than at Troy. There are many
more railway lines running to and through Montgomery, connecting with all the distant markets. The Alabama River,
open all the year, is capable, if need be, of bearing to Mobile
on the sea the burden of all the goods of every class that

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pass to or from Montgomery. The competition of the railway lines is not stifled, but is fully recognized and intelligently and honestly controlled and regulated by the traffic
association in-its schedule of rates. There is no suggestion in
the evidence that the traffic managers who represent the carriers that are members of that association are incompetent.or
under the bias of any personal preference for Montgomery or
prejudice against Troy that has led them, or is likely to lead
them, to unjustly discriminate against Troy. When the rates
to Montgomery were higher a few years ago than now, actual
active water-line competition by the river came in, and the
rates were reduced to the level of the lowest practical paying
water rates, and the volume of carriage by the river is now
comparatively small, but the controlling power of that water
line remains- in full force, and must ever remain in force as
long as the river remains navigable to its present capacity.
And this water line affects to a ,degree less or more all the
shipments to or from Montgomery from or to all the longdistance markets. It would not take cotton, from -Montgomery to the South Atlantic ports for export, but it would
take the cotton to the points of its ultimate destination if the
railroad rates to fordign marts through the *Atlantic ports
were not kept, down to or below the level of profitable carriage by water from Montgomery through the port of Mobile.
The, volume of .trade to be competed for, the number of carriers actively competing for it, and a constantly open river present to take a large part of it whenever the railroad rates rise
up to the mark of profitable water carriage, seem to us, as
they did to the Circuit Court, to constitute circumstances and
conditions at Montgomery substantially dissimilar from those
existing at Troy, and to relieve the carriers from the charges
preferred against them by the Board of Trade. We do not
discuss the third and fourth contention of the counsel for the
appellant further than to say that, within the limits of the
exercise of intelligent good faith in the conduct of their business, and subject to the two leading prohibitions that their
charges shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they
shall not unjustly discriminate so as to give undue preference

INT. COX. COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND R'Y.

1-73

Opinion of the Court.

or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced,
the act to regulate commerce leaves common carriers, as they
were at the common law, free to make special rates lo6king
to the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to
adjust and apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities
of commerce and of'their own situation and relation to it, and
generally to manage their important interests upon the same
principles which are regarded as sound and adopted in other
trades and pursuits. The carriers are better qualified to adjust such matters than any court or board of public administration, and, within the limitations suggested, it is-safe and
wise to leave to their traffic managers the adjusting of dissimilar circumstances and conditions to their business." 41
U. S. App. 453.
The last sentence in this extract is objected to by the Commission's counsel, as declaring that the determination of the
extent to which discrimination is justified by circumstances
and conditions should be left to the carriers. If so read, we
should not be ready to adopt or approve such a position. But
we understand the statement,, read in the connection in which
it occurs, to mean only that, when once a substantial dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions has been made to
appear, the carriers are, from the nature of the question,
better fitted to adjust their rates to suit such dissimilarity of
circumstances and conditions than courts or commissions; and
when we consider the difficulty, the practical impossibility, of
a-court or a commission taking into view the various and continually changing facts that bear upon the question, and
intelligently regulating rates and charges accordingly, the
observation objected to is manifestly just. But it does not
mean that the action of the carriers, in fixing and adjusting
the rates, in such instances, is not subject to revision by the
Commission and. the courts, when it is charged that such
action has resulted in rates unjust or unreasonable, or in unjust discriminations and preferences. And such charges were
made in the present case, and 'were considered, in the first
place by the Commission, and afterwards by the Circuit Court
axid by the Circuit Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The first contention we encounter, upon this branch of the
case, is that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to review
the judgment of the Commission upon this question of fact;
that the court is only authorized to inquire whether or not the
Commission has misconstrued the statute and thereby exceeded
its power; that there is no general jurisdiction to take evidence upon the merits of the original controversy; and, especially, that questions under the third section are questions of
fact and not of power, and hence unreviewable.
We think this contention is sufficiently answered by simply
referring to those portions of the act which provide that, when
the court is invoked by the Commission to enforce its lawful
orders or requirements, the court shall proceed, as a court of
equity, to hear and determine the matter, and in such manner
as to do justice in the premises.
In the case of Cincinnati, N. 0. and Texas P.ac. Railway
v. It. Conz. Com., 162 U. S. 184, the findings of the Commission were overruled by the Circuit Court, after additional
evidence taken in the court, and the .decision of the Circuit
Court was reviewed in the light of the evidence and reversed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and this court, in reference
to the argument that the Commission had not given due
weight to the facts that tended to show that the circumstances and conditions were so dissimilar as to justify the
rates charged, held that as the question was one of fact, peculiarly within the province of the Commission, and as its conclusions had been accepted and, approved by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and as this court found nothing in the record that
made it our duty to draw a different conclusion, the decree of
the Circuit Cofrt of Appeals should be affirmed. Such a
holding clearly implies that there was power in the courts
below to consider and apply the evidence and in this court
to review their decisions.
So in the- case of Texas & Pa6p Railway v. Interstate
Com. Com., 162 U. S. 197, the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which affirmed the validity of Ihe order of the Coin-'
mission, upon the ground that, even if ocean competition
should be regarded as creating a dissimilar condition, yet that,

"INT.COM. COM. v. ALABAMA MIDLAND R'Y.

175

Opinion of the Court.

in the case under consideration, the disparity in rates was too
great to be justified by that condition, was reversed by this
court, not because the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to
consider the evidence and thereupon to affirm the validity of
the order of the Commission, but because that issue was not
actually before the court, and that no testimony had been
adduced by either party on such an issue; and it was said
that the language of the act authorizing the court to hear and
determine the iiatter as a case of equity, "necessarily implies
that the court is not concluded by the findings or conclusions
of the Commission."
Accordingly our conclusion is that it was competent, in the
present case, for the Circuit Court, in dealing with the issues
raised by the petition of the Commission and the answers
thereto, and for the Circuit Court of Appeals on the appeal,
to determine the case upon a consideration of the allegations
of the parties and of the evidence adduced in their support,
giving effect, however, to the findings of fact in the report of
the Commission asprimafacieevidence of the matters therein
stated.
It has been uniformly held by the several Circuit Courts
and the Circuit Courts of Appeal, in such cases, that they are
not restricted to the evidence adduced before the Commission,
nor to a consideration merely of the power of the Commission to make the particular order under question, but that
additional evidence may be put in by either party, and that
the duty of the court is to decide, as a court of equity, upon
the entire body of evidence.
Coming at last to the questions of fact in this case, we
encounter a large amount of conflicting evidence. It seems
undeniable, as the effect of the evidence on both sides, that
an actual dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions exists
between the cities concerned, both as respects the volume of
their respective trade and the competition, affecting, rates,.
occasioned by rival routes by land and water. Indeed, the
Commission itself recognized such a state of facts by making
an allowance, in the rates prescribed, for dissimilarity resulting
from competition, and it was contended on behalf of the Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, 3.

mission, both in the. courts below and in this court, that the
competition did, not justify -the discriminations against Troy
to the extent shown, and that the allowance made therefor by
the Commission was a due allowance.
The issue is thus restricted to the question of the preponderance of the evidence on .the respective sides of the controversy. We have read the evidence disclosed by the record,
and have endeavored to weigh it with the aid of able and
elaborate discussions by the respective counsel.
No useful purpose would bo served by an attempt to formaally state and analyze the evidence, but the result is that we
are not convinced that the courts below erred in their estimate
of the evidence, and that we perceive no error in the principles
of law on which they proceeded in the application of the
evidence.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly

Affirmed.
MN& JUsTicE.

H~Awu,

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case.
Taken in connection with other decisions defining the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the present decision, it seems to me, goes far to make that commission a
useless body for all practical purposes, and to defeat many
of the important objects designed to be accomplished by the.
various enactments of Congress relating to interstate commerce. The Commission was established to protect the public against the improper practices of transportation companies
engaged in commerce among the several States. It has been
left, it is true, with power to make reports, and to issue protests. But it has been shorn, by judicial interpretation, of
authority to do anything of an effective character. It is
denied, many of the powers which, in my.judgment, were
intended to be conferred upon it. Besides, the acts of Congress are now so construed as to place communities on the
lines of interstate. commerce at the mercy of competing railroad companies engaged in such commerce. The judgment
in this case, if I do not misapprehend its scope and effect,

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.

177.

Syllabus.

proceeds upon the ground that railroad companies, when
competitors for interstate business at certain points, may, in
order to secure traffic for and at those points, establish rates
that will enable them to accomplish that result, although such
rates may discriminate against intermediate points. Under
such an interpretation. of the statutes in question, they may
well be regarded as recognizing the authority of competing
railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce - when
their interests will be subserved thereby - to build up favored
centres of population at the expense of the business of the
country at large. I cannot believe that Congress intended
any such result, nor do I think that its enactments, properly
interpreted, would lead to such a result.

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 4. Argued October 12, 1897. -Decided

November 15, 1897.

By the Spanish law in force at the time of the alleged grant of 1788, set up
in this case, lots and lands were distributed to those who were intending
to settle, and it was provided that, "when said settlers shall have lived
and labored in said settlements during the space of four years, they are
hereby empowered, from the expiration of said term, to sell the same,
and freely to dispose of them, at their will, as their own property," but
confirmation after the four years had elapsed was required in completion
of the legal title; and it was further provided that it should "not be
lawful to give or distribute lands in a settlement to such persons as
already possess some in another settlement, unless they shall leave their
former residence, and remove themselves to the new place to be settled,
except where they shall have resided in the first settlement during the
four years necessary to entitle them to fee-simple right, or unless they
shall relinquish their title to the same for not having fulfilled their obligation." On the facts in this case it is Held, that the granting papers in
this record, taken together, do not justify the presumption of settlement
and working by the two Garcias on the tract contained in the grant of
1788, for the ten years prior to 1798, or for four years thereof, or any
confirmation 6f the grant thereupon, but that the contrary is to be
inferred from the testimony in respect of possession; that Armenta's
vor. cLxvm-12

