OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

parties to cover risks from all causes .whatsoever, including
negligent or wilful acts of the master and crew. To give so
broad an interpretation to words of exception, inserted by the
carrier and for his benefit, would be contrary to settled rules
of construction, and would render nugatory many of the subsequent stipulations of the bill of lading.
The wrongful jettison of the sound cattle by the act of the
carrier's servants cannot reasonably, or consistently with the
line of English authorities already cited, or with our own decisions, be considered either as an "accident to, or mortality of
the animals," or as a "loss or damage occasioned by causes
beyond his control, by the perils of the sea, or other waters,"
or yet as a loss or damage "by collisions, stranding, or other
accidents of navigation." There having been no collision,
stranding, or other accident of navigation, there was nothing
to which the only stipulation in the bill of lading against the
consequences of negligence, default, or error in judgment of
the master'and crew, could apply.
There was no barratry, because there was neither intentional fraud or breach of trust, nor wilful violation of law, one
of which, at least, is necessary to constitute barratry. Patapsco ins. Co. v. Coulter, 3 Pet. 222; Lawton v. Sun Ins. Co.,
2 Cush. 500; Grill v. General Iron Screw Colliery Co., above
cited.
The facts of the case, therefore, do not bring it within any
of the exceptions of the bill of lading, assuming them to be
valid.
-Decreeafflrmed.

CRAEMER v. WASHINGTON STATE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 466. Submitted October 12, 1897. -Decided

October 25, 1897.

In the case of a petition for habeas corpus for relief from a detention under
process alleged to be illegal, by reason of the invalidity of the process
or proceedings under .which the petitioner is held in custody, copies of

CRAEMER v. WASHINGTON STATE.
Statement of the Case.
such process or proceedings must be annexed to, or the essential parts
thereof set out in the petition, mere averments of conclusions of law
being necessarily inadequate.
In this case, which was an indictment for murder, the verdict being
"guilty as charged" ; and judgment of condemnation to death thereon
being affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State; and this court having determined, on a former petition by the petitioner, that it had no
jurisdiction to review that judgment, Craemer v..Washington State, 164
U. S. 704; and the time appointed for execution havifig passed, pending
all these proceedings, it was within the power of the state court to
make a subsequent appointment of another day therefor, and to issue a
death warrant accordingly, and a judgment to that effect involved no
violation of the Constitution of the United States.

Tins was aun appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Washington refusing
a writ of habeas corpus on the face of the petition therefor.
The petition averred that Henry Craemer, the petitioner, was
a citizen of the United States, residing in the county of King
in the State of Washington; that he was unlawfully held in
custody by the sheriff of that county, who was about to take
his life, under certain alleged process and authority, "wholly
without authority of law, without the jurisdiction of any
court, contrary to the law, and contrary- to the rights.of your
petitioner as a citizen of the United States under the Constitution of the United States."
"That on or about the 23d day of August, 1894, he was
charged by the State of Washington by information of three
separate crimes in one count, to wit, the crime of murder
in the first degree, to which the penalty of death attached
upon conviction; murder in the second degree, to which a
penalty of not less than ten nor more than twenty years'
imprisonment in the penitentiary attached, and the offence of
manslaughter, to which not less than .two nor more than ten
years' imprisonment in the penitentiary attached.
"That your petitioner was tried upon the said information
upon issue joined in the Superior Court of King County.
"That to said issue a jury trying your petitioner did return
him guilty of no greater offence than the offence of murder in
the second degree, and by legal construction granting inferences and all presumptions in favor of your petitioner as

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

accused, finding your petitioner guilty of no higher offence
than that of manslaughter.
"That the said jury in nowise found your petitioner guilty
of murder in the first degree, to which the sentence and
penalty of death could be inflicted.
"That the said verdict was rendered about the 12th day of
September, 1894.
"That your petitioner appealed from the decision finding
your petitioner guilty of murder in the second degree or of
manslaughter to the Supreme Court of the State of Washington upon errors assigned, and the said judgment was affirmed.
"1And,further, upon the validity of the process under which
your petitioner was charged, to wit, as to whether or not
your petitioner could be tried upon an information for his
life, your petitioner appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States upon that point and that point alone, and the
said Supreme Court dismissed said appeal, returning the said
cause and all process to the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington, to be dealt with as in manner and form of the
law was both just and proper."
That no death warrant had been issued while the cause was
on appeal, and that there had been no opportunity or occasion
to complain in the Supreme Court of the State, or in any
other court, as to the right to issue such warrant; that
the cause was tried before Judge Humes, one of the judges of
the Superior Court of the county of King; "that after the said
cause had been disposed of in the Supreme Court of the State
of Washington, and the Supreme Court of the United States,
and returned to the Superior Court of the State of Washington for the execution of such process as would be legal in
the premises," Judge Humes had been succeeded by Judge
Jacobs; that on February 6, 1897, the State of Washington
moved that petitioner be brought up for judgment and other
process against him and that Judge Jacobs issue a warrant
of death, and that petitioner duly objected to Judge Jacobs'
passing sentence of death upon him and issuing a death warrant to the sheriff, and insisted that the court was without

CRAEIMER v. WASHINGTON STATE.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction to make such an order, and that such order would
be in denial of due process of law and in violation of Article
VI and of Article XIV of the Federal Constitution; but,
notwithstanding his objections, petitioner was ordered to be
executed on April 23, 1897.
That under the laws of the State of Washington, there was
no time allowed further to appeal from that order to the
,Supreme Court of the State; that the governor of the State
respited petitioner and stayed the execution of the death sentence until July 23, 1897; "that the next term of the Supreme
Court of the State of Washington is not until the month of
October, 1897, in which there would be any authority on the
part of the court by any proceedings to review the unauthorized act of the said Judge Jacobs and of his honor the judge
of the Superior Court," and the only remedy left petitioner as
a citizen of the United States was application to the Circuit
Court.
Petitioner prayed for the writ of habeas corpus and for the
writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of the county of King
ordering the record of the cause to be certified to the Circuit
Court "for information, particularly the alleged information,
the verdict, the judgment and the death warrant made in,
the premises, and all other journal entries and orders in the
.cause."
The appeal came before this court on motions to dismiss or
-affirm.
.Mr. "W C. Jones for the motion. Mr. Patrick Henry
Winston and .Mr.
James F. .McElroy were on his brief.
James Hamilton Lewis opposing. Mr. Charles A.
Riddle and Mr. John W. Pratt were on his brief.
Mr1.

MR. CHIEF JusTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Under existing statutory provisions appeals may be taken
to this court from final decisions of the Circuit Courts in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

habeas corpus, in, cases, among others, where the applicant
for the writ is alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or of some law or treaty of the United
States, and if the restraint is by any state court or by or under
the authority of any State, further proceedings cannot be had
against him pending the appeal. Rev. Stat. §§ 763, 764, 766;
act of March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat. 437.
Such being the law, it has happened in numerous instances
that applications for the writ have been made, and appeals taken
from refusals to grant it, quite destitute of meritorious grounds,
and operating only to delay the administration of justice.
From the petition in this case it appeared that petitioner
was held by the sheriff of King County, Washington, to be
executed in pursuance of a judgment and sentence of death
rendered -by the Superior Court of that county, and warrant
issued thereon; that that judgment had been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State; and that this court had heretofore determined that it had no jurisdiction to interfere in
revision of that judgment. See also State v. Craemer, 12
Washington, 217; Craemerv. Washington, 164 U. S. 704.
Nevertheless petitioner insisted that the judgment against
him was void because in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States, and that the judgment of this court in dismissing his writ of error was not to be regarded, as he had
not in fact seen fit to raise in maintenance of that writ the
particular point on which he now relied.
That point seems to be that the 'Verdict returned against
him on the information on which he was tried was either so
uncertain that judgment could not be entered thereon, or
amounted to no more than a verdict finding him guilty of
murder in the second degree, or of manslaughter, in respect
of either of which crimes the punishment of death was not
denounced.
By section 754 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that
the complaint in habeas corpus shall set forth " the facts concerning the detention of the party restrained, in whose custody he is detained, and by virtue of what claim or authority,
if known." The general rule is undoubted that if the deten-

CRAEMfER v. WASHINGTON STATE.
Opinion of the Court.

tion is claimed to be unlawful by reason of the invalidity of
the process or proceedings under which the party is held in
custody, copies of such process or proceedings must be annexed
to or the essential parts thereof set out in the petition, and
mere averments of conclusions of law are necessarily inadequate. Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Kohl v. Lehlback,
160 U. S. 293; Church on Habeas Corpus, 2d ed. § 91, and
cases cited.
Copies of the information, the verdict, and the judgment
thereon were not attached to -this petition, nor the essential
parts thereof stated, nor any cause assigned for such omission.
In that regard the petition was wholly insufficient.
But reference, was made to the record of the case in the
Superior Court of King County, in the Supreme Court of the
State, and in this court. The record here, to which we may
properly refer, Butler v. Eaton, 11 U. S. 240, shows that the
information charged Craemer with the crime of murder in the
first degree; that the jury "found him guilty as charged;;"
that he was adjudged guilty of the crime of murder in the
first degree, and sentenced to death; that the judgment was
affirmed; and that the writ of error to the state court was
dismissed.
If the point now suggested was not in fact specifically
raised in the Supreme Court of the State on appeal, or in this
court on writ of error, it must not be assumed that any point
on which the jurisdiction might have been sustained was overlooked.
Mforeover, the settled law of the State was adverse to petitioner's contention as urged b6fore the Circuit Court, and no
ground existed which could justify that court in refusing to
accept it.
The statutes of Washington define murder in the first degree and prescribe the punishment of death upon conviction;
the crime of murder in the second degree, and punishment by
imprisonment in the penitentiary for a term not less than ten
nor more than twenty years; and the crime of manslaughter,
and punishment by like imprisonment not less than one year
'nor more than twenty years, and afine in any sum not exvor. ctivm-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeding five thousand dollars. 2 Hils Codes, 642, 644, 646;
Wash. Penal Code, §§ 1, 3, 7 and 11. On an indictment or
information charging an offence consisting of different degrees a jury may find the defendant not guilty of the degree
charged, but guilty of any degree inferior thereto, and in all
other cases defendant may be found guilty of an offence, the
commission of which is necessarily included within that with
which he is charged. The form of the verdict is also prescribed as follows: "We, the jury, in the case of the State of
defendant, find the deWashington, plaintiff, against-,
fendant (guilty or not guilty, as the case may be)." 2 Hill's
Codes, 509; Penal Code, §§ 1319, 1320 and 1325; Laws Wash.
1891, 60, c. 28, §§ 75, 76. The Code of the Territory was to
the same effect. §§ 786, 790, 793, 798, 1097, 1098 and 1103.
In Timmerman v. Washington Territory, 3 Wash. Ter. 445,
the defendant was indicted for the crime of murder in the
first degree, and the jury returned a verdict in the statutory
form. It was argued, on error, that the verdict was defective in that the defendant might h'ave been found guilty of
murder in the first or second degree, or of manslaughter, and
that, therefore, the verdict was uncertain and sentence could
not be pronounced upon him; but the Supreme Court of the
Territory held upon consideration of. sections 1097, 1098 and
1103 of the Code, whidh are sections 1319, 1320 and 1325, as
numbered in Hill's Codes of the State, that if the jury found
the defendant guilty of an offence of an inferior degree to
that charged, the verdict must specify it, but if the verdict
was intended to be guilty of the degree charged, there would
be no necessity for so specifying it, and that the jury having
used the statutory.form there was no uncertainty as to the
fact thus found; and that the objection was untenable.
In this case the verdict was "guilty as charged," and judgment of condemnation to death thereon was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State as has been said. 12 Washington,
217. The, time appointed for execution having passed, the
subsequent appointment of another day and the issue of the
death warrant were in accordance with statute. Hill's Codes,
§§ 1351, 1354.

3ILLER v. CORNWALL RAILROAb COMPANY.

131

Statement of the Case.

Apart then from the insufficiency of the petition and the
legal effect of the previous judgment of this court, the final
order of the Circuit Court must be held to have been properly
entered, in that the rendition of the judgment complained of
involved no violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Affirmed.

MILLER v. CORNWALL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 18. Argued October 18, 189T. -Decided November 1, 1897.
The validity of a statute is drawn in question whenever the power to enact
it, as it is by its terms, or is made to read by construction, is fairly open
to denial, and is denied.
Under Rev. Stat. § 709, if the ground on which the jurisdiction of this
court is invoked to review a judgment of a state court is, that the
validity of a state law was drawn in question as in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States, and the decision of the state court is
in favor of its validity, this must appear on the face of the record before
the decision below can be reexamined here.
A suggestion of such appearance, made on application for reargument,
after the judgment of the trial court is affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, comes too late.
This court has no jurisdiction on a writ of error to a state court to declare
a state law void on account of its collision with the state constitution.
An objection in the trial of an action in a state court that an act of the
State was "unconstitutional and void," when construed in those courts
as raising the question whether the state legislature had power, under
the state constitution, to pass the act, and not as having reference to
any repugnance to the Constitution of the United States, is properly
construed.
The report of this case in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania shows that
it assumed that it was dealing, under the assignments of error, only with
the state constitution.

LEwIs Miller brought his action against the Cornwall Railroad Company in the Court of Common Pleas of Lebanon
County, Pennsylvania, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained through the company's negligence while he was

