WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

34:9

Statement of the Case.

It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be
Reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to grant a
new trial, and for further proceedingy in conformity to
law.

MR.JusTIcE BREWER is of the opinion that the deceased was
guilty of contributory negligence.

ST. ANTHONY FALLS WATER POWER COMPANY
v. ST. PAUL WATER COMMISSIONERS.
MINNEAPOLIS MILL COMPANY v. SAME.
Nos.

23, 24.

Argued October 18, 14, 1897. -Decided

November 29,1897.

The rights of riparian owners of land situated upon navigable rivers are
to be measured by the rules and decisions of the courts of the State in
which the land is situated, whether it be one of the original States or a
State admitted after the adoption of the Constitution.
The Mississippi is a navigable river at all the points referred to in the
records in these cases.
The grants made to the plaintiffs in error by the acts of February 26, 1856,
and February 27, 1856, of the legrslature of the Territory of Minnesota,
to maintain dams and sluices in the Mississippi River, etc., etc., were subject at all times to the paramount right of the public to divert a portion
of the waters for public uses, and to the rights, in regard to navigation
and commerce existing in the General Government, under the Constitution of the United States; and under those grants the plaintiffs in error.
took no contract rights which have been impaired in any degree by the
acts of the legislature of Minnesota respecting the public waterworks
of the city of St. Paul.

THE[E, actions were brought in a District Court of the State
of Minnesota, by the respective plaintiffs in error against the
defendant in error for the purpose of recovering damages for
injury to their alleged rights as riparian owners and otherwise,
at St. Anthony Falls on the Mississippi River, and also for a
perpetual injunction enjoining the defendant in error from
diverting the waters above so as to prevent them from flow-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

ing in their natural course in the, Mississippi River and down
to the water power of the .plaintiffs in error respectively.
The plaintiff in error, the St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Company, was incorporated by an act of the Territory of
Minnesota, approved on the 26th day of February, 1856, c.
137, p. 215.. The first eight sections of the act relate to the
incorporation of the company and to its internal affairs. The
ninth section reads as follows:
"SEc. 9. The said corporators are hereby authorized for
the purpose of the improvement of the water power -above
and below the Falls of Saint Anthony, in the Mississippi
River, to maintain the present dams and sluices, and construct
and maintain dams, canals and water sluices, erect mills,
buildings or other structures for the purpose of manufacturing in any of its branches, or improving any water power
owned or possessed by said company, in such manner or- to
such extent as shall be authorized by the directors of said
company, and may construct dams on the rapids above or below the Falls of Saint Anthony, with side dams, sluices and
all other improvements- in the Mississippi River, upon the
property owned or to be owned by said corporators, which
may be necessary for the full enjoyment of the powers herein
granted': Provided,however, That said corporation shall give
a free passage for. all loose logs that are to be manufactured
'on Hennepin or Cataract Islands, or between them on the
falls through any dam or dams they may erect, on the west
side of Nicollet or Hennepin Islands, and the passage through
the pond, above said dam, shall, when needed, be twenty feet
wide: P'ovided, That nothing herein contained shall be so
construed as to authorize said corporation to interfere with
the rights of property of any other person or persons whatever."
The Minneapolis Mill Company was also incorporated by an
act of the legislature of the Territory of Minnesota, approved
February 27, 1856, c. 145, p. 236, the ninth, eleventh and
twelfth sections of which read as follows:
"SEC. 9. The said corporators are 'hereby authorized" for
the purpose of the improvement of the water power above and

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COYMSSIONERS.

351

Statement of the Case.
below the Falls of St. Anthony in the Mississippi River, to
maintain the present dams and sluices, and to construct dams,
canals and water sluices, erect mills, buildings or other structures for the purpose of manufacturing in any of its branches, or
improving any water power owned or, possessed by said company, in such manner and t6 such extent as shall be authorized
by the directors of said company, and may construct dams on
the rapids above or below the Falls of St. Anthony, with side
dams, sluices and all other improvements in the Mississippi
River which may be necessary for the full employment of the
powers therein granted."
"SEc. 11. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage, and may be amended by any subsequent
legislative assembly, in any manner not destroying or impairing the vested rights of said corporators: Provided, That
nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to authorize
said corporation to interfere, with the rights or property of
any other person or persons whatever.
"SEC. 12. Providedfurther,That nothing contained in the
act entitled an act to incorporate the St. Anthony Falls Water
Power Company shall be so construed as to allow the said
St. Anthony Falls Water Power Company to maintain or
construct dams or sluices extending beyond the centre of the
channel of the Mississippi River from the western bank of
Hlennepin Island, and said St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Company are hereby restricted in the exercise of powers and
privileges granted by the ninth section of said act to the
space between the western bank of said island and the centre
of said river: Provided,The aid dam shall always be provided with suitable slides and sluices, so as to admit the passage of logs and timber down the Mississippi River, and that
any future legislature may amend or modify this act or the
act to which this section is amendatory: Andprovidedfurther,
That the Minneapolis Mill C6mpany shall be restricted in its
operations to the centre of the main channel of the Mississippi River and to the property belonging to said company."
By the second section of the act of Congress, approved
February 26, 1857, 11 Stat. 166, c. 60, authorizing the people

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the Territory, of Minnesota to forni a State constitution,
etc., it was enacted: Y That the said State of Minnesota shall
have concurrent jurisdiction on the Mississippi -and all other
rivers and waters bordering on the said State of Minnesota,
so far as the same shall form a common boundaiy. to said
State and any other State or States now or hereafter to be
formed or bounded by the same; and said, river and waters,
and the navigable waters leading :into the same, shall be common highways, and forever free,. as well to the inhabitants of
said State-as to all other citizens of the United States, without
any tax, duty, impost, or toll, therefor." ,
Section two, article two, of the constitution of Minnesota
has the same provision for the jurisdiction of the State over
the Mississippi and other rivers and waters bordering on- theState as is provided for in section two of the above act of
Congress.
The complaints in the two cases are substantially similar,
the two companies owning on different sidesof the Mississippi
River at about the same point, and the complaint in the case
of the 'Minneapolis Mill- Company contained the following
among other allegations: It alleged the incorporation of the
plaintiff in error, under the acts above mentioned, and also
the incorporation of- the defendant. pursuant to an act of the
legislature of the State of. Minnesota, approved February 10,
1881, which has been amended by various acts supplemental
thereto.
Plaintiff further alleged that pursuant to the provisions of
its charter it acquired large tracts of land bordering upon the
Mississippi River, and on the southwesterly bank thereof, lying
within the present limits of the city of Minneapolis and county
of Hennepin, and that by reason of the fall in said river at
that point, which amounts to some seventy feet in the course
of a thousand feet, there was created a natural water powerof great extent and value; that the plaintiff, pursuant to the
provisions of its charter and in accordance .with the natural
right inherent in the ownership of lands abutting upon the
waters of said river, constructed dams and water sluices at,
great expense, for the purpose of making the water power

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

353

Statement of the Case.

available for manufacturing and -other,purposes to which the
same was adapted, and by meeting those erected by the other
company, and that by the erection of these dams on the opposite side of the river the plaintiff had made available the water
power of the river to the extent of about fifty feet fall, leaving
still unoccupied a further fall of about twenty feet; that in
pursuance of its charter and in accordance with its rights as
riparian owner, plaintiff in error had made contracts with different parties for the construction of mills and manufacturing
establishments in convenient proximity to its water power,
and for a valuable consideration had furnished and. was furnishing water power to these different establishments which
have use for the power, and that the same is of great value
to the plaintiff; that it has reserved to itself large rents and
income by leasing to other parties the right to use certain
portions of the water.
And the plaintiff alleged that by reason of its ownership of
the land bordering upon the river it had acquired and still
owned all the riparian rights incident to the ownership of
lands bordering upon the Mississippi River, which was stated
to be a natural water course, in which there naturally flowed
a large quantity of water derived from the river and also from
numerous tributaries above, and that by reason of its riparian
rights the plaintiff was entitled to have and require the natural flow of the waters of the river in the channels, both east
and west in said river, adjacent to the lands at said falls without diminution or diversion of such natural flow by any person whatever.
It was further averred thatione of the tributaries of the
Mississippi River is a natural water course and stream known
as Rice Creek, which drains waters from a large extent of
territory within the State, and which are gathered together
and have a natural flow or outlet through said creek into the
Mississippi River, eight or ten miles above the water power
of the plaintiff; that Rice Creek, in its natural course, flows
through a small lake in the county of Anoka, designated as
Baldwin Lake, and from thence to its connection with the
Mississippi River; that the amount of water flowing in that
voL. ci-cvm-23

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

creek and lake varies with the different seasons of the year,
the ordinary amount being about thirty million gallons per
day.
It is then further alleged tha the defendant, acting under
the provisions of the act of the legislature above mentioned,
approved February 10, 1881, authoiizing the city of St. Paul
to purchase the franchises and. property of the St. 'Paul
Water Company and creating a board of water commissioners
had acquired title to a portion of the land bordering upon
Baldwin Lake, and had erected thereon pumping works and
machinery for the diversion of the waters of the lake into a
certain other lake situated in the county of Ramsey, which
other lake had a'natural outlet through streams flowing into
the Mississippi River below the"water power of plaintiff, and
that the defendant had for the greater part of the time during
the two years before the commencement of this action, by
means of its works on Baldwin Lake,' withdrawn from that lake
a quantity of water to the amount of ten million gallons per
day, and that the quantity thus pumped from that'lake was
diverted by the defendant into a .lake known as Pleasant
Lake, and from thence it had been drawn by the waterworks
of the defendant into the city of St. Paul, and distributed
over that city and used for domestic purposes and for furnishing water for steam engines and other inanufacturing purposes,
and for the' propulsion of elevators and other machinery, and
that the waters thus used had been entirely diverted from
Rice Creek and from that part of the Mississippi River above
the water power of plaintiff,' and no part thereof had been
returned to the Mississippi River above the water power of
plaintiff so as in any way or manner .to be made useful to
plaintiff.
The plaintiff further alleged that the defendant, although
assuming to act in accordance with its charter, had not acquired the right to divert the waters naturally flowing in
Rice Creek and" through Baldwin Lake from their natural
course, nor had defendant made compensation to plaintiff and
other parties beneficially interested in the use of said water,
nor had defendant made any provision for computing the

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER CO RMISSIONERS.

355"

Statement of the Case.

amount of compensation due plaintiff for damages caused by
diverting and withdrawing the waters of the river from their
natural course; that by reason of this diversion of water the
income and profits arising from the maintenance of the water
power were diminishing, (to an amoqnt stated in the complaint,) and that the damages sustained by the plaintiff by
reason of the diversion amounted to the sum of $1500.
Judgment was demanded that the plaintiff should recover
its damages already sustained in the sum of $1500, and that
the defendant should be perpetually enjoined from interfering
with or diverting the waters which would otherwise naturally
flow into Lake Baldwin, so as to prevent them from flowing
in the natural course to said Rice Creek and Mississippi River
to the water power of said plaintiff.
The answer of the defendant averred that the defendant
existed as a corporation and executive department of the city
of St. Paul, of the State of M innesota, under and by virtue of
the acts referred to in the complaint, as approved February
10, 1881, and amended January 25, 1883, ahd March 1, 1885,
and that the defendant, under these acts and under the charter
of the city of St. Paul,. exercised all of the authority of the
city of St. Paul with respect to acquiring lands and franchises
for *and the construction of waterworks for the purpose of
supplying the city of St. Paul and its inhabitants with pure
water for all public purposes.
The defendant also averred that by virtue of the authority
granted by the acts of the legislature, above referred to, and
by the charter granted to the city of St. Paul, the defendant
had secured the right of way from the city of St. Paul to
said Baldwin Lake, and by the use of 'mains, ditches and
pumps it had drawn and was drawing from that lake and was
bringing to the city of St. Paul water for the use. of the city
and its inhabitants, and that the defendant and the city of
St. Paul are the owners in fee simple of a large tract of real
estate bordering on Lake Baldwin, upon which lands it had
erected buildings and placed therein pumps, etc., for the purpose of drawing water from that lake for the purpose of
supplying the city of St. Paul with water.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Other averments were made not material to be here
mentioned.
The defendant claimed the right to take the water from
Baldwin Lake and conduct'the same to the city of St. Paul
for the use of said city and its inhabitants, (without making
any compensation or payment therefor -to the plaintiff,) by
reason of the legislative authority above mentioned.
A similar answer was put in by the defendant in the case
of the St. Anthony Falls Water Power Company.
Replies. to these answers were put in by the plaintiffs in
error taking issue on the matters of fact therein alleged.
Upon these pleadings the two actions came on for trial in
the state court and were tried together. Evidence was given
upon the part of the plaintiffs tending to support the allegations of the complaints, and after the plaintiffs had rested,
the defendant moved that the actions should be dismissed on
the ground that there was no liability on the part of the
defendant to either of the plaiitiffs, because the Mississippi
River was a navigable river, its beds and its waters being
owned by the State of Minnesota, and that the board of
water commissioners, defendant herein, was a part of the city
government of the city of St. Paul, authorized by the legislature to' draw water from any of the lakes of the State for
the purpose of supplying water to the city of St. Paul; that the
defendant acted as agent of the State and in the name of the
State, supplying the citizens of the State with water owned by
the State, which the State had a right to use for that purpose,
and that such right was paramouht to the rights of affy riparian owners; also on the ground that nothing but a reasonable
use had been shown by tle defendant as riparian owner of
land on Lake Baldwin; also that plaintiff's dams are a purpresture, and that plaintiffs can have no right to the use of
water obtained in that way; also that their riparian rights
do not extend to the use of water on land not owned by
them, or, as against the defendant, to power obtained which
requires the flowage of land other than their own.
The motion to dismiss was granted in each case, to which
the plaintiff in each case duly excepted.

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

351

Opinion of the Court.

A motion for a new trial was made before the trial court
upon a case and exceptions, and the motion, after hearing
counsel, was denied. The plaintiffs then appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State from the order of the District
Court denying plaintiffs' motion .for a new trial and from the
whole thereof. The Supreme Court affirmed the order and
directed that the defendant should have judgment accordingly.
Upon thd affirmance of the judgments by the Supreme Court
the plaintiffs obtained a writ of error in each case from this
court, and the records are now before us for review.
,Mr.
Rome G. Brown for plaintiffs in error.
S. Albert was on his brief.

-Mr. Charles

Mr. James E. farkham and ur. Herman TV. Phillips for
defendants in error.
Mr. JUSTiE PEoxnA,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

It is claimed upon the part of the plaintiffs in error that by
the decision of the court below they have been deprived of
their property without due process of law. They urge that
they have certain rights as riparian owners of land near St.
Anthony Falls, bordering upon the Mississippi River, to the
use of all the water as it would naturally flow past their land,
and that this right is property; that its existence and extent
are to be determined by the general law applicable to riparian
owners in like situation, which right is not determined conclusively by a state court, and that being property it cannot
be taken away or impaired either by other private owners or
by the State, except that if the latter should require the use of
any portion of the water for any public purpose it may only
be taken or diverted upon due compensation being made.
These rights, it is claimed, are protected by the Federal Constitution, and that as such claim was duly .presented before
the state tribunal, the question is now open for review by this
court.

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1897.

Opinion of the Court.

If wr6ng in their above claim the plaintiffs in error then
urge that if it be assumed that the State originally had the
power to make. a diversion of some portion of the water in
the Mississippi River for th6 purpose of supplying the city of
St. Paul with water, yet that through the action of the territorial legislature in 1856, in granting these plaintiffs in error
their charters, with the powers and rights therein named, the
Territory gave and released to plaintiffs in error the right to
use all of the water naturally flowing in the river past their
lands- for the purpose .of power free from the right of any
subsequent territorial or state legislature to divert the waters
in the manner complained of herein without making compensation.
These charters are claimed by the plaintiffs in error to be
contracts, the obligations of which no subsequent legislature
could impair, and it is argued that the act of 1881 and the
subsequent acts amendatory- thereof, granting to the defendant in error a right to use water for the purposes therein
named, do impair the obligations of these contracts, and
therefore are absolutely void.
They also urge that, even if their riparian rights are to be
governed by the general rules of law laid down by the highest
court of Minnesota, it will be found that the former decisions
of that court upon that subject have fixed in plaintiffs the
property rights which they here claim, and that this court
should not be bound by the last decision of the state. court
upon the question, as evidenced by the judgment under review,
because it is wholly inconsistent and at war with all the prior
decisions of the state court, and ought not to be followed.'
These contentions on the part of the plaintiffs in error are
now to be examined.
(1) In regard to the first proposition, we are of opinion that
the property rights of the plaintiffs in error, as riparian owners,
are to be measured by the rules and decisions of the state
cdurts of Minnesota. This principle, we think, has been announced and adhered to by this court from its very early days,
and no distinction has been made between the rights of the
original States and those which were subsequently admitted

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COM-fISSION-ERS.

359

Opinion of the Court.'

to the Union under the provisions of. the Federal Constitution.
The provisions -of the act of Congress, already cited, (act
of February 26, 1857, c. 60, § 2, 11 Stat. '166;) making the
Mississippi River a common highway for the inhabitants of
the State and all other citizens of the United States, do not
impair the title and jurisdiction of the State over the navigable waters within her boundaries more than rights .of that
nature are limited with regard-to the original States. This
has been uniformly held, and is so stated in many of the -cases
hereinafter cited where similar language -has been used in the
*acts admitting States into the Union.
Preliminarily, it may be said. that the Mississippi River at
the point in questiofn is a navigable stream. In order to be
navigable, it is not necessary that it should be deep enough to
admit the passage of boats at all portions of the stream. One
witness for the plaintiffs in error said that in its natural state
the river at this point was not navigable at ordinary stages of
the water for half a mile below St. Anthony Falls, and in its
natural state it was not navigable immediately above the falls,
but that it was navigable in its natural state above Nicollet
Island. He also. stated that when he said the Mississippi
River was not navigable at these falls, he meant that it was
not navigable for boats; that boats could not go up and down
in its natural condition; that it was always used for logs With
chutes that are *artificially prepared. It was navigable below*
the rapids and navigable above the rapids, and that the dam
made it so. It was navigable above the rapids for the purpose
of running shallow boats and for floating logs. What is said
hereafter in regard to the river is based upon the really unquestionable fact that it is a navigable river at all points
referred to in these records.
In Martin v. liaddell, 16 Pet. 367, it was held that; when
the Anierican Revolution was concluded, the people of each
State became themselves sovereign, and in that character held
"the absolute right to all their navigable waters and the soils
under them fpr their own common use,. subject only to the
rights since surrendered by the Constitution to the General
Government. The action was ejectment for ,00. acres of land

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of -the Court.

covered with water in Raritan Bay in the
township of Perth
Amboy, in'the State of New Jersey. The claim of the plaintiff was founded upon the charters of Charles IIto his brother,
the Duke of York, in 1664 and 1674, for the purpose of enabling him to plant a colony on the continent of America, the
land in controversy being within the boundaries of the charters
and in the territory which now forms the State of New Jersey.
Those letters patent, as construed by this court, conveyed to
the Duke of York all the prerogatives and powers of government residing at the time of their execution in the King of
Great Britain, and passed from the jurisdiction of GreatBritain to the people of each State after the Revolution. Although the, question in that case arose in regard to lands
covered with water in Raritan Bay, yet the principles upon
which the case was decided have been stated to apply to the
rights of the States in regard to all navigable waters within
their jurisdiction.
In Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, the question arose in regard to the rights of the State of Alabama in the shores of
navigable waters and the soils under them within her limits:.
The sixth section of the act of Congress, passed on the 2d of
March, 1819, 3 Stat. 492, c. 47, for the admission of the State
of Alabama into the Union, provided: "That all navigable
waters within the said State shall forever remain public highway , free to the citizens of said State and of the United States,
without any tax, duty, impost or toll therefor, imposed by
said State." It was held that the Government of the United
States did not by reason of that enactment possess any more
power over the navigable waters of Alabama than it possessed
over the navigable waters of other States under the provisions
of the Constitution, and that Alabama had as much power
over those navigable waters as the original States possessed
over the navigalle waters within their respective limits. It
was also held that the shores of navigable waters and the
soils under them were not granted by the Constitution of the
United States, but were reserved to the States respectively,
and the new States had th6 same rights, sovereignty and
jurisdiction over the subject as the original States.

WATER' POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

361

Opinion of the Court.

In Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 4:71, the decision of this court
in Pollard v. Hagan, supra, was referred to and affirmed,
and it was said that, by the admission of the State of Alabama into the Union, that State became invested with the
sovereignty and dominion over the shores of the navigable
rivers between high and low water mark, and that after such
admission Congress could make no grant of land thus situated.
In Barney v. Keokulk, 94 U. S. 321, it was recognized as
the law that the title and rights of riparian proprietors upon
the banks of the Mississippi were to be settled by the States
within which the lands were included. Mr. Justice Bradley,
instating the opinion of the court in that case, said (at page
338): "And since this court in the case of The Genesee Chief,
12 How. 443, has declared that the Great Lakes and other
navigable waters of the country, above as well as below the
flow of the tide, are, in the strictest sense, entitled to the denomination of navigable waters, and amenable to the admiralty
jurisdiction, there seems to be no sound reason for adhering
to the old rule as to the proprietorship of the beds and shores
of such waters. It properly belongs to the States by their
inherent sovereignty, and the United States has wisely abstained from extending (if it could extend) its survey and
grants beyond the limits of high vater. The cases in which
this court has seemed to hold a contrary view depended, as
mos0t cases must depend, on the local laws of the Sltate in which
the land.were 8ituated. In Iowa, as before stated, the more
correct rule seems to have been adopted after a most elaborate
investigation of the subject."
It was also sai&by the same learned justice in. speaking of
the English idea of navigable waters being necessarily tide
waters: "It bad the influence for two generations of excluding the admiralty jurisdiction from our great rivers and inland
seas; and -inder. the like influence it laid the foundation'in
many States of doctrines with regard to the ownership of the
soil in navigable waters above tide water at variance With sound
principles of public policy. Whether, as rules of property, it
would now be safe to change these doctrines where they have
been applied, as before remarked, is for the several States them-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

selves to determine. If they choose to resign to the riparian
proprietor rights which properly belong to them in their sovereign capacity, it is not for others to raise objections. In our
view of the subject the correct principles were laid down in
.iarti& v. TFaddell, 16 Pet. 367; Pollard's Lessee v. .Eagan,
3 How. 212, and Goodtitle v. RKibbe, 9 How. 471. These cases
related to tide water, it is true; but they enunciate principles
which are equally applicable to all navigable waters."
In St. Louis V. Myers, 113 U. S. 566, this court held that
the act of March 6, 1820, 3 Stat. 545, admitting the State of
Missouri into the Union, left the rights of riparian owners on
the Mississippi River to be settled according to the principles
of state law. Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in delivering the
opinion 'of the court, said: "The act of Congress providing
for the admission of Missouri into the Union, act of March 6,
1820, c.22, 3 Stat. 545, and which declares that the Mississippi
River shall be 'a common highway and forever free,' has been
referred to in the argument here, but the rights of riparian
owners are nowhere mentioned in that act. They are left to
be settled according to the principles of state law."
In Packer v. Bird, 17 U. S.661, it was held, that as the
highest court of California had decided that the Sacramento
River being navigable in fact, a title upon it extends no farther
than to the edge of the stream, this court would accept that decision as expressing the law of the State. That case asserted
the right of each State to determine the extent of the title
and of the rights of the riparian owners in waters within the
territory of the Sthte. It was also stated that the Federal
courts must construe grants of the General Government without reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States
f6r grants by them, but that whateverincidents or rights attach
to the ownership of property conveyed by the United States
bordering on navigable streams, would be determined by the
States in which it is situated, subject to the limitation that
their rules do not impair the efficacy of the grant, or the use
and enjoyment of the property by the grantee. It was further
said that: "As an incident of such ownership the right of the
riparian owner, where the waters' are above the influence of

WATER POWER CO. v.. WATER- COMMISSIONERS.

363

Opinion of, the Court.

the tide, will be linilted according .to the law of the State,'
iither to low or high water mark, or will extend to the.middle
of the stream."
It does not impair the efficacy of the grant or the use and
enjoyment of the property by the grantee to hold that riparian
rights are to be decided by the state courts, inasmuch as the
grant if by the Federal. Government, has been held in the cases
already cited, not to include title over.navigable waters within
or bounded by the States.
In Rardin v. Jordan,140 U: S. 371, it was held that grants
by the United States of its public lands bounded on streams
and other waters, made without reservation or restriction, areto be construed, as to their effect, according to the law of
the State in vhich the lands lie, and that it depends -upon the
law of each State to what extent the prerogative of the State
to lands under water shall extend. In the-opinion, after stating that the title tothe shore and lands under -water is in the
State and is.regarded as incidental to its sovereignty, it is said:
"Such title being in the State, the lands are subject to state
regulation and control, under the condition, however, of not
interfering with the regulations which may be made by Congress with regard to public navigation and commerce.
Sometimes large areas (of land) so reclaimed are occupied by
cities and are put-to other public or private uses, state control
and bwnership thereiri bing supreme, subject only#to the paramount authority, of Congress in making regulations of cornmerce and subjecting the lands to the necessities and uses of
commerce" (citing cases). Continuing, the court said: "This
right of the States to regulate and control the shores of tide
waters and the land under them is the same as that which is
exercised by the crown in England. In this country the same
rule has been extended to our great navigable ]akeg, which
are treated as inland seas; and also, in some of the States, to
navigable rivers, as the Mississippi, the Missouri, the Ohio,
'and, in Pennsylvania, to all the permanent rivers of the State;
but it depends upon the law of each State to what waters and
to what extent this prerogative of the State over the lands
under water shall be exercised."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Brewer, in his dissenting opinion (p. 402) in the
above cited case, which was concurred in by Mr. Justice Grayand Mr. Justice Brown, agreed: "That the question how far
the title of a riparian owner extends is one of local law. For
a determination of that question the statutes of the State and
the decisions of its highest court furnish the best and the final
authority." And the dissent was based upon the theory that
although the right of the State to determine this matter was
not questioned iii the prevailing opinion, there was, nevertheless, error committed by the majority of the court in refusing
to follow a decision of the state court on the very question
then. under review, and in following instead thereof previous
decisions of the state court inconsistent therewith.
In St. louis v. Butz, 138 U. S. 226, 242, cited in the dis,
senting opinion above referred to, it was said by Mr. Justice
Blatchford, in delivering the opinion of the court: "The
question as to whether the fee of the plaintiff, as a riparian
proprietor on the Mississippi River, extends to the middle
thread of the stream, or only to the wateres edge, is a question in-regard to a rule of property which is governed by the
local law of Illinois."
In 'Kaukauna Water Power Company v. Green Bay &
-Mississippi 0anal Co., 142 U. S. 254, Mr. Justice Brown, in
delivering the opinion of the court,, said at page 271: "It is
the settled law of Wisconsin, annouii6ed in repeated decisions
of its Supreme Court, that the ownership of riparian proprietors extends to the centre or thread of the stream, subject, if
such stream be navigable, to the right of the public to its use
as a public highway for the passage of vessels (citing cases).
In City of Janesville v. Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 288, 300, it
is said of the riparian owner: 'He may construct docks, landing places, piers and wharves out to the navigable waters, if
the river is navigable in fact, but if it is not so navigable he
may construct anything he pleases to-the thread of the stream,
unless he injures some other riparian proprietor, or those having the superior right to use the waters for hydraulic purposes.
Subject to these restrictions, he has the right to use
his land under water .the same as above water. It is his pri-

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

365

Opinion of the C6urt.

vate property under the protection of the Constitution, and
it cannot be taken, or its value lessened or impaired even for
public use, "withouf compensation," or "without due process
of law," and it cannot be taken at all for any 'one's' private
use.' With respect to such rights, we have held that the law
of the State, as de6lared by its Supreme Court, is eontrolling
as a rule of property."
In 87hiveZy v. Bowlby, 152 U."S. 1, it was again said that the
new States admitted into the Union since the adoption of the
Constitution have the same. rights 'as the original States in
the tide waters and in the lands under them. within their
respective jurisdictions. It was also remarked that, upon the
question, how far the title'of the owner of the land extends
bounding upon a river actually navigable, but *above the ebb
and flow of the tide, there is a diversity in the laws of the
different States; and that the title and rights of rip-arian or
littoral proprietors in the soil below high-water mark are governed by the laws of the several States,, subject to the rights
granted to the United States by the Constitution,
The suit was in the nature of a bill in equity brought to
quiet title to lands below high-water' mark in the city of
Astoria, the question involving the rights in navigable waters
as between the State and others. The opinion at page 57.
states as follows: "By the law of the State of Oregon, therefore, as enacted by its legislature and declared by its highest
court, the title in the lands in controversy is in the defendants
in error; and, upon the principles recognized and affirmed by
a uniform series of recent decisions of this court above referred•
to, the law of Oregon governs the case." The opinion refers
to all the cases which we have above cited and many others,
upon the various questions which are discussed .in the case,
and recognizes the rule that it belongs to the States t6 decide
as to "the character and extent of the riparian rights' of
owners upon navigable waters within such States.
It is true that in these various cases the exact point in controversy in this case in regard to the rights of the State as
against riparian owners has not arisen. The dispute has generally been as to the extent and character of the title as be-

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tween the United States or the State and. the riparian owner
to lands under water, and as to the righ of the riparian owner
to. build out from the shore piers or wharves so as to reach
the navigable portion of the stream; but the principles laid.
down in all of these cases necessarily include the right of thestate courts to decide, as a matter of local law, the point now
under discussion,.subject to the*acknowledged jurisdiction of,
the United. States under the Constitution in .regard to commerce and the naVigation of the Waters of rivers. The jurisdiction of the State over this question of riparian ownership
has been always, and from the foundation of the *overnment,
recognized and admitted by this cohrt. The extent of the
plaintiff's riparian right of property was therefore the subject
.of adjudication by the state court, and the rule has been
definitely stated by that court in its judgment, which is now
under review.
"(2) It is claimed, howev6r, by the plaintiffs in error that
this judgment is the only case in the State where the ruling
made therein has been adopted, and that this particular judgment is 'at war with ai-d -oppqsed .to every other ruling upon
the subject heretofore made by the Supreme Court of that
State; and they contend that upon the authority of Hardin
v. Jordan, suvr, this court should disregard the judgment
of the state court i this case and follow the previous decisions
of. that court on- this subject. As to the case of Hardinv.
.Jozdau,it may be said that it went as far as this court ought
to go in refusing to follow the latest decision of the highest
court' of a State in regard to a natter upon which the judgment of that court is regarded as- conclusive. It will be observed, however, that the decision in Hardin v. Jo'dan, in:
refusing tofollow the ruling of the Supreile Court of Illinois,
in T .utees of Sclools v. Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509, was placed
upon the asserted -fact that such ruling of the Supreme Court
•of Illinois was not necessary to the decision of the case, and
that, being opposed to the entire course of the previous decisions of that State, it should be disregarded. It is not so here.
The ruling of the state: court was *necessary to the decision
of this case and stands as the latest, if not the only, exposition

WATER. POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

367

Opinion of the Court.

of. the views of that court upon the question involved. We
ought, therefore, to follow that case.
However, with regard to the decisions of the §tate court
upon this subject, cited by counsel for the plaintiffs in error,
we think there is not one of them which is inconsistent with
the decision of that court in the cases how under review. The
question did not arise in any of them upon the right of the
State as against plaintiffs in error, or any one in like situation,
to divert a portion of the flow of the water in the Mississippi
River to any public purpose so long. as it did not interfere
with the navigation of the river.
The cases'of Schurmeier v. St. Paul & Pacifgc Railway, 10
Minnesota, 82; Brisbine v. St. Paul & Sioux City Railroad,
23 Minnesota, 111; .Morrillv. St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Co., 26 Mi nnesota, 223; Minnesota v. .MinneapolisMill Co., 26
Minnesota, 229; UnionDepot &c. v. Brunswicek, 31 Minnesota,
297; Hanford v. St. Paul &f.DulutA Railroad,43 Minnesota,
101; and St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. Iinneapolis,
41 Minnesota, 270, are cited to sustain the contentkn of the
plaintiffs in error.
An examintion of these cases shows that the question did
not arise and was not decided in any of them. Some of the
cases relate to the question as to what was the proper boundary, high or low water mark, of lands mentionefl therein, and
in others the-question arose as to the riparian right of owners
of lands adjoining the Mississippi River to 'build piers or docks
out to. the navigable portion of the stream, or to fill up and
build upon a portion of the river out to its navigable part; or
it was a question of the right of a riparian proprietor to compensation from a railway company seeking to condemn for
the purposes of its railway a certain portion of land owned
by him between the" centre of a street and the centre of the
channel of the river. In none of the cases was there involved
the right of the State to divert for public purposes a portion
of the flow. of a river, while not in the slightest degree or in
any way affecting the navigability of the stream.
In Union Depot &oc. v. Brunswick and in Brisbine v. St.
Paul &c. Company, 8upra, substantially the same questions

368

OCTOBER. TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.,

arose, and in the latter case, in speaking of some of the ripa.rian rights of an owner upon the banks bf a navigable stream,
the court said:
"What these rights are, especially in regard to land ac-.
quired originally from the' United States, and bordering, as
this does, upon.the Mississippi River, we regard as fully and
correctly settled by the Federal Supreme Court. Dutton v.
Strong, 1 Black, 23 ; RailroadCompany v. Schurmeier, 7 Wall.
272; Yates v. Afilw ,ukee, 10 Wall. 497. According to the
doqtine of these decisions the plaintiff possessed the right
to enjoy free communication between his abutting premises
and the navigable. channel of the river, to build and maintain,.
for his own and the public use, suifable landing places, wharves
and piers, on and in fron t of his land, and to extend the same
therefrom, into the river to 'the point of navigability, even
though beyond low-water mark, and to this *extentexclusively
to occupy, for such and like purposes, the bed, of the stream,
subordinate 'and subject only to the. navigable rights of th4
public and such needful rules and regulations for their protection asmay be prescribed by competent legislative authority.
The -rights which thus belong tohim as riparian owner of the
abutting premises were valuable property rights, of which he
could not be divested without consent, except by due process
of law, and, if for public purposes, upon just compensation.
Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497."
In Union Depot Street Railway v. Brunswick and others,
31 Minnesota, 297, it was held to be the settled law of Minnesota that a riparian owner upon a navigable stream has the
fe'e to low-water mark; and that in addition he owns as an
incident to his ownership certain riparian rights, among which
are the right to enjoy free communication between his abutting premises .and. the navigable channel of the stream, to
build and maintain.suitable piers,-landings or wharves on and
in front of his -land,and'to extend the same therefrom into the
stream to the point of navigability even beyond low-water
mark, and to this extent exclusively to occupy for such and
like purposes the bed of the stream, subordinate .only to the
paramount public- right of navigation. These riparian rights

WATER ,POWER CO. v. WATER COMImSSIONERS.

369

Opinion of the Court.

the court held to be property, and that they were not to be
taken by the State without paying just compensation therefor.
The rights which Were held subordinate only to the. paramount public right of navigation were those mentioned by
the court, and not a word was said as to the right of flowage,
which was not involved and was not alluded to.
In Morrill v. St. Anthony Falls Water Power Company,
8upra, the Supreme Court of Minnesota held that the riparian owner of lands upon a navigable stream may use the
water flowing past his land for any purpose, so long as he
does not impede navigation, in the absence of any counterclaim by th6 State or the United States. It will be seen that
this case does not refer to the right to receive the full amount
of the natural flowage from above, but only to the right to
use that which does flow, in the absence of any counterclaim
by the State or the United States.
The same general statement of the rights of riparian owners
is made in -Hanfordv. t. Paul & .Duluth Railroad,supra.
That case treats of the rights of a riparian owner in the bed
of the stream above low-water mark as subject to the right of
the public to fise the same for the purposes of navigation, and
adds that "restricted only by that paramount public right,
the riparian owner enjoys valuable proprietary privileges,
among which we shall consider particularly the right to
the use of the land itself for private purposes. . . . Subject only to the limitation that he shall not interfere with the
public right of navigation, he has the unquestionable and
exclusive right to construct and maintain suitable landings,
piers and wharves into the water and up to the point of navigability for his own private use and benefit (citing cases).
. . . And it is obviously immaterial, if the public interests
be not prejudiced, whether the submerged land be -covered
with wharves of timber or stone, or be reclaimed from the
water by filling in with earth so that it becomes dry land.
The land may be so reclaimed." It is also said in the course
of the opinion: "The limit to the private right is imposed by
the public right, and the private right exists up to the point
beyond which it.would be inconsistent with the public right."
VOL. cLxvra-21

OCTOBEI TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

All this was said in regard to the case then under discussion, which related to the right of a riparian proprietor to
reclaim the submerged land to the point of uavigability, and
to alienate the same so that the alienee might have the rights
of the riparian owner, although having no interest in the
original riparian estate. The question here involved was
neither decided nor considered.
It Schurmewer v. St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company,
10 Minnesota, 82, which was affirmed in 7 Wall. 272, it was
held that the grantee from the United States had his line
bounded by the river, at least to low-water mark, and when
after the grant was made to him he platted it into blocks as
part of the-town of St. Paul that he still retained in the land
over' which the streets and landing were laid the fee, subject
only Ito the use of the public for the purposes designated, and
that the railroad company, having no legal authority to use
the streets or land.ing for railroad tracks, and such use being
a spe6ial injury to the plaintiff, he was entitled to an injunction. In that case Mr. Chief Justice Wilson, in the state
court, was- f the opinion that the riparian proprietor went to
the middle of the river; that that was the rule at common
law, and, in his opinion, there was no reason to doubt that
Minnesota as to tha question;
the common law prevailed in,
but while so holding, as his individual opiniorn h, said that
other authorities regarded the boundary line of the riparian
proprietor to be low-water mark, and even on that assumption
the place in dispute was within the title of the riparian proprietor.
The state court subsequently decided that the title of a
riparian owner on a navigable stream went only to low-water
mark.
St. Anthony Falls Water Power Comyany v. City qf JMimne'polis, supra, does not decide the point contended for
by the plaintiffs in error. It was a contest between private
parties as to the effect of a certain deed in reserving rights to
the grantor and as to the extent of the right of flowage contained in the deed. The question here under discussion was
not even remotely affected.

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIO1NERS.

371

Opinion of the Court.

We have looked in vain among all the cases in the state
court, cited by counsel for the plaintiffs in error, for any decision upon this question. Whatever may be the rights of
the plaintiffs in error under their charters or as the riparian
owners of land to build and maintain their dams to the centre
of the stream, there is no decision cited which holds that they
are entitled to the use of all the water which would naturally
flow past their lands and over their dams so constructed, nor
has the state court decided that the only right of the State,
to which this alleged right of the plaintiffs in erro is subject
or subordinate in any way, is limited to the right of the State
to control or use the bed of the stream and the waters therein
for purposes of navigation only. That limitation has never
been placed upon the State with reference to the point here
in question. The state Supreme Court in deciding this particular case was not therefore announcing a rule which was at
all inconsistent with or opposed to any of its former decisions;
and as the extent of the riparian rights in this case was a subject committed to the jurisdiction of the State of Minnesota,
we are bound, so far as this question is concerned, to follow
the decision of the highest court of that State as announced
in this case.
(3) If wroug in their above contentions, the plaintiffs in
error then assert that their charters granted in 1856, and set
forth so far as material in the foregoing statement of facts,
gave and guaranteed to them the right to use and develop
the water power of St. Anthony Falls, and authorized them
to build such structures in and upon the river as were necessary to develop that power, and that when these provisions of
their charters were accepted and acted upon, they became
contract obligations between the State of Minnesota and the
plaintiffs, and that the statute above mentioned, authorizing
the defendant to divert some portion of the natural flow of
the water without compensation to the plaintiffs, was a, violation of the Federal Constitution, as impairing the obligation of
the contracts contained in the charters referred to.
We think this contention cannot be maintained. We are
of opinion that the true construction of these territorial

I OCTOBER TERN, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

charters does not give such contract rights as are -claimed by
the plaintiffs in error. They were grants of power to the
respective companies, under which they were licensed to build
their dams out into the river for the purpose of utilizing the
power, and of-using the water that flowed down the river.
These grants were in legal effect subject' at all -times to the
paramount right of the State as trustee for the public to divert
a portion of the waters for public uses, and they were also
subject to the rights in regard to navigation and commerce
existing in'the General Government under the Constitution of
the United States. See also upon this subject, lWatuppa cc.
Co. v. Fall River, 147 Mass. 548;, City of Auburn v. Union
Waterpower Co., 38 Atlantic Rep. 561, Supreme Court of
Maine, Oct.-, 1897. There was no contract by virtue of
these charters that the companies should always and for all
time be entitled to all the natural flow of the water in the
river without regard to the right of the State as above mentioned. The claim made by the conpanies seems to us most
extravagant. The State or any particular subdivision thereof
acting under its authority would, if these claims were valid,
be forever thereafter prevented from using any portion of the
waters of the river for any public purpose unless compensation for such use were first made these plaintiffs. This constrgction of the meaning of the charters assumes the power
of a territorial or state legislature to bind future legislatures.
in dealing with these public rights, and it prevents the latter
from providing for the use of any portion of the waters for
public purposes of the most important character without first
making compensation to the plaintiffs for that use. If we
should asume the validity of an act of the legislature of such
a character, (which, under the decision .of this court in Ilinois Central Railroad v. Jllinois, 146 U. S. 387, is. at least
doubtful,) it is clear that we ought not to adopt a construction
leading to that result unless the legislative act be plain and
beyond all doubt. We are of' opinion that these particular
charters of the plaintiffs are not to be thus construed. The
sections of the acts. which are material -upon this point simply
authorize the companies to maintain their dams and sluices,

WATER POWER CO. v. WATER COMMISSIONERS.

373

Opinion of the Court.

and permit them to construct and maintain other dams, etc.,
for the purpose of manufacturing, or for improving any water
power owned or possessed by the companies, in such manner
or to such extent as shall be authorized by the directors. But
there is no language in the acts providing that the companies
shall thereafter and always have the right to the use of all
the natural flow of the water down the river. Nor is such
right a necessary and legal consequence of the language used.
They may have acquired by these acts the right to build dams,
etc., and the right to use such water as in fact and -from time
to time should flow down to their dam, but there is nothingin the language of the charters showing or implying that it
was the intention of the State to grant to these parties the
rights now claimed by them.. It is difficult to believe that a
legislature would ever grant to individuals or companies rights
of that nature, even if it be assumed it had the power. It
was proper and in accordance with a wise public policy to
grant a privilege to these companies to build dams, etc., as
stated in the charters, and to permit them, -by virtue of the
dams and sluices, to use the water that in fact and from time
to time might come down the river, but it cannot be supposed
that the legislature meant by any grant of this kind to warrant that for all future time no part of the water that might
otherwise naturally flow down the river should ever be used
under the authority of the State for any public purpose, without compensating the plaintiffs for that diversion.
In Bundle v. Delaware &, Raritan Canal Co., 14 How. 80,
this court held, that by the law of Pennsylvania the Delawarb
River was a public navigable river, held by its joint sovereigns
(the States bordering thereon) in trust for the public; that
riparian owners in that State had no title to the river, or any
right to divert its waters, unless by license from the States;
that such license was revocable and in subjection to the superior right of the State to divtert the water for public improvements, either by the State directly, or by a corporation created
for that purpose; and that the proviso to the provincial acts
of Pennsylvania and New Jersey of 1771 did not operate as
a grant of the usufruct of the waters of the river .to Adam

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Hoops and his assigns, but only as a license or toleration of his
dam. It appeared in this case that the plaintiffs in -error,
being plaintiffs below, were the owners of certain mills in
Pennsylvania opposite the city of Trenton in New Jersey;
that the mills were supplied with water from the Delaware
River by means of a dam extending from the Pennsylvania
shore to an island lying near and parallel to it and extending
along the rapids to the head of tidewater. The plaintiffs
claimed that by virtue of a proviso in the acts of the provincial legislatures of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, their predecessors had become entitled to the free and uninterrupted
enjoyment of the river Delaware for the use of their mills,
and that, hiotwithstanding, the defendants had erected a dam
in the river above plaintiffs' mills and had duga canal and
diverted the water to their great injury. A demurrer was interposed, upon which the court below gave judgment for the
defendants, and this court was asked to review and reverse
that judgment. It was held that the proviso was nothing
more than a license to keep the dam up, which could at any
time be revoked.
A careful consideration of the acts in question persuades us
that they are not to be construed as plaintiffs claim, and that
under them the plaintiffs took no contract rights which have
been impaired in any degree by the subsequent acts under
which defendants claim the rights set up in their respective
answers.
These views lead us to the opinion that the judgments of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota in these cases are right, and they
are, therefore,

Afflrmed.

