CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.

177.

Syllabus.

proceeds upon the ground that railroad companies, when
competitors for interstate business at certain points, may, in
order to secure traffic for and at those points, establish rates
that will enable them to accomplish that result, although such
rates may discriminate against intermediate points. Under
such an interpretation. of the statutes in question, they may
well be regarded as recognizing the authority of competing
railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce - when
their interests will be subserved thereby - to build up favored
centres of population at the expense of the business of the
country at large. I cannot believe that Congress intended
any such result, nor do I think that its enactments, properly
interpreted, would lead to such a result.

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 4. Argued October 12, 1897. -Decided

November 15, 1897.

By the Spanish law in force at the time of the alleged grant of 1788, set up
in this case, lots and lands were distributed to those who were intending
to settle, and it was provided that, "when said settlers shall have lived
and labored in said settlements during the space of four years, they are
hereby empowered, from the expiration of said term, to sell the same,
and freely to dispose of them, at their will, as their own property," but
confirmation after the four years had elapsed was required in completion
of the legal title; and it was further provided that it should "not be
lawful to give or distribute lands in a settlement to such persons as
already possess some in another settlement, unless they shall leave their
former residence, and remove themselves to the new place to be settled,
except where they shall have resided in the first settlement during the
four years necessary to entitle them to fee-simple right, or unless they
shall relinquish their title to the same for not having fulfilled their obligation." On the facts in this case it is Held, that the granting papers in
this record, taken together, do not justify the presumption of settlement
and working by the two Garcias on the tract contained in the grant of
1788, for the ten years prior to 1798, or for four years thereof, or any
confirmation 6f the grant thereupon, but that the contrary is to be
inferred from the testimony in respect of possession; that Armenta's
vor. cLxvm-12

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
certificate of 1798 and the correspondence of 1808 conduct to no other
result; and that, in the light of all the evidence, the condlusion of the
court below was correct.

Tins was a petition filed by heirs and legal representatives
of Francisco Garcia de Noriega and Jos6 Antonio Garcia de
loriega, for the confirmation of an alleged grant made by
Governor Concha, January 27, 1788, of 9752.57 acres, called
the Caion de San Diego, situated in the county of Bernallilo,
New Mexico, and included within a grant of 116,288.89 acres
by Governor Chacon, March 6, 1798, alleged in the petition to
have been to the "town of the Cafion de San Diego."
The granting papers of 1788 were produced and placed in
the archives of the Government by claimants in 1879. As
translated by the Government, they read as follows:
"Sefior Governor DoN FEaRNANDo DE LA CON HA :
"We, Francisco Garcia de Koriega, interpreter for the
Navajos, and Jos6 Antonio Garcia de Noriega, with the most
profound respect appear before your Excellency and state Sir,
that a caffon which is called San Diego being found vacant,
having seen that cultivation may be had and some animals
pastured therein, we prostrate. ourselves at -the royal feet of
your Excellency's grandeur solely to ask and pray that you
deign in the name of his Majesty to favor us by giving us
the said cafion for the purposes mentioned, on account offinding ourselves lacking land for planting, and, "wedeserving
that his Majesty should favor us, we ask as a grant the said
vaon ; on account of all which we ask and pray that your
Excellency be well pleased to command that what we request
be done, that by your so doing we shall receive great benefit
and favor, etc.
a FRAcisco GARcA. DE NOEIEGA.
(Scroll.)
"JosE AvoNio GARciA.

(Scroll.)

"SANTA± FE, January 27, 1788.

"I grant, in the name of the King, the cultivation and
working of the land which the petitibners ask for, the chief
alcalde of the.Qperes, Don Antonio Armenta, placing them in

CHAVES v. 'UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

possession thereof, provided that no prejudice results to the
Indians and residents settled in that vicinity, and it having
been so done, following this decree he shall place the said
taking of possession without prejudice to a third party, in
order to copy it in the government book, and to write it out
on stamped paper when the same shall reach this province.
"CoxcHA. (Scroll.)
"At this Cation of San Diego on the sixth day of the
month of February, of the year one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-eight, I, Don Antonio de Armenta, chief alealde
and war captain of the jurisdiction of the Queres, by virtue
of the authority that is conferred upon me by Sefior Don
Fernando de la Concha, Knight Commander of Mora in theOrder of Santiago, lieutenant colonel of the royal armies, civil
and military governor of this province of New Mexico, being
at the said cafion, having cited the natives of the pueblo of
Jemez, who are the. adjoining owners to said land, and having
designated to them that which was their own they were well
suited on account of receiving no injury by the giving of said
caffon, and also knowing that it is the will of our Sovereign
that his lands be peopled by his vassals in whatever surplus
there may be, and finding no obstacle whatever that could
interfere with it, and exercising the authority that is conferred upon me, I went to said Caton of San Diego, and no
one appearing who had a better right, nor there being any
prejudice to a third party who might make .objection, and
said Indians, Francisco Garcia de Koriega, interpreter for the
Navajos, and his brother, Jos6 Antonio Garcia de Noriega,
being present and understanding it all, I took them by the
hand, I conducted them over said lands, they pulled up grass,
threw stones to the four cardinal points, and we all said together three times, 'Long live the King, our lord (whom may
God preserve,)' as evidence of true possession, which they
received quietly and peaceably without any opposition, their
boundaries being the following: On the north side, the waterfall (salio del agua); on the south side, the junction of the
rivers and also a point of a red table land (una mesa cole-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

'ada,) and lands of said Indians. With respect to the east
and west there is nothing more than s ome very high table
lands on both sides of the cafwn, which (table lands) serve as
boundaries. And, there resulting no prejudice whatever, they
were satisfied with them (the boundaries); and in order that it
may so appear I, said chief alcalde, Don Antonio de Armenta,
signed it, together With my two attending witnesses, with
whom I act for lack of a public or royal notary, of which
there is none of any kind in all this government, to all of
which I certify.
"The interlineation ' river' is valid.
"Awroo a ARMENTA. (Scroll.)
"(Armenta's scroll.)
"Witness: SALvADoR Aromio SANDOVAL. (Scroll.)
"Witness: NIcoLAs OiiTIz.

(Scroll.)"

There ard some differences between petitioners' translations
and those of the Government, the principal. being in the opening words'of the alleged grant, which in Spanish were: " Concedo en nombre del Rey el cultivo y labor de la tierra que
solicitan los Supplicantes," etc. These words are translated
by petitioners: "I grant in the name of the King, fdr cultiva.tion and working, the land that the petitioners solicit"; and
by the Government: "I grant, in the name of the King, the
cultivation and working of the land which the petitioners ask.
for."
The granting papers of the grant of 1798 were as follows:
"Seal Third. [Seal.] Two Rials.
"For the years one thousand seven hundred and ninetyeight and ninety-nine.
"To the "UeutenantcoZonel and governor of thisporovince:
"Francisco and Antonio Garcia, brothers, and interpreters
of the Navajo nation, in unison with Miguel Garcia, Joaquin
Mvontoya, -Salvador Garcia, Jos6 Manuel Garcia, Juan Jos6
Gutierez, Juan de Aguilar, Blas Nepumuceno Garcia, Bartholomew 'Montoya, Jos6 Montoya, Tomas Montoya, Juan
Domingo Martin, Jos6 Gonzales, Salvador Lopes, Antonio

CHAVES v. UNJITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Abad Garcia, Miguel Gallego, Marcos Apodaca, Jos6 Miguel,
Duran and Jos6 Maria Jaramillo, appear before your Excellency in the most approved manner the law requires and may
be necessary, and state that a quantity of vacant and uncultivated land lies in the Caton of San Diego, adjoining the
boundaries of the land belonging to the Indians of the town
of Jemez; and whereas the settlement thereof would be beneficial to the provinces, and advantageous to our -present
families and descendants to be settling upon these lands withour property and cultivating the same, we pray your excellency to be pleased to grant this aid and settlement that we
petition for to the persons herein mentioned; being pleased
at the same time to order, in the name of his Majesty (whom
may God preserve), that we may receive from the boundaries
beyond the land granted to the Indians -of the pueblo, our
petition calling for from east to west to the middle arroyo
called Los Torreones, and the line runnifig from north to
south to the Vallecelo de la Cueva which is in front of the
waterfall, and in a transverse line from said middle arroyo
to the Rito de la Jara. We also protest that we will not
injure with our persons or stock, a few trees which the Indians claim as their own, although they are planted beyond
the limits of the lands which belong to them. Therefore we
humbly pray your Excellency to be pleased to order our request to be complied with, granting us the vacant land asked
for; by doing which we will receive grace, and we swear, in
due form, that our petition is not made through malice; and
one signed, the others not knowing how.
"Jos9 MIGUEL GARoI.

"Decree.
view of the foregoing petition made by -Jos6 Miguel
Garcia and other citizens therein mentioned, in regard to settling in the cafion known as San Diego de Jemez, where the
interpreters of the Navajo nation were temporarily stationed,
I grant to them the aforesaid land in the name of the King,
our sovereign, with the expressed condition that it is to be
settled by at least twenty citizens; that the lands are to be
"In

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

distributed in equal parts, and that they are not allowed or
authorized, for themselves or their heirs, to sell or dispose of
the lands granted to them. It being his Majesty's will, according to his last orders, that the lands should descend from
father to son, or his heirs in a direct line; and if any colonist,
to suit his own conscience, should desire to remove, under any
pretext whatever, his possession or share shall remain for the
benefit of the one taking his place, in which case the residents
of the same place, or persons marrying there, shall be preferred,
and for .which no remuneration whatever shall be exacted by
the person voluntarily absenting himself, or expelled or banished by the authorities on account of his bad conduct; that
besides the subdivision above mentioned, a sufficient amount
of land is to be left for pastures and watering pIa~es as well
as to allow for the increase of the settlement, if such may be
:the case (which is likely to occur) -(torn)

-order

of the

chief justice of that jurisdiction, Don Antonio Armenta, to
place the parties in possession under the rules prescribed by
law.

CRAcoN.

"Possession.
San
Diego de los Jemez, on the fourteenth
"In the Cafion de
day of the month of March, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-eight, I, Don Antonio Armenta, chief
justice of the Pueblo of Jemez, by virtue of the authority
conferred upon me by my superior, Don Fernando Chacon,.
gentleman of the order of Santiago, lieutenant colonel of the
royal armies, political and military governor of this province
of "NewMexico, being at the aforesaid place, and having summoned the natives of said Pueblo of Jemez, to whom having
measured the league belonging to them, I found a surplus of
two thousand one hundred varas, which they had before arriving at the Caion de San Diego, all of which they claimed as
their own, without having any right to them in any manner;
and believing that itis the wish of our sovereign that hisland
be settled upon by his- subjects wherever a surplus may be
found, and finding no impediment whatever,- and using the
authority in me vested, I proceeded to- the surplus lands, and
finding up one with a better title, and Francisco Garcia, An-

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tonio Garcia, Navajo interpreters, Miguel Garcia, Joaquin
Montoya, Salvador Garcia, Jos6 Manuel Garcia, Juan Jos6
Gutierrez, Juan de Aguilar, Juan Blas Pumuceno Garcia,
Bartolome Montes, Tomas Montoya, Jos6 Montoya, Juan
Domingo Sangil, Salvador Lopez, Jos6 Gonzales, Antonio
Abad Garcia, Miguel Gallegos, Marcos Apodaca, Jos6 Miguel
iDuran and Jos6 Jaramillo, being present, all interested and
well informed in regard to the matter, I took them by the
hand, walked them over said lands, they pulled up grass, threw
stones towards the four winds, and we all cried at once, three
times, Live the King our sovereign (whom may God preserve)
in proof of legal possession, which they received quietly and
peaceably without any opposition whatever, because, after concluding all these ceremonies, I delivered to each one of the
said settlers three hundred varas, with which they were well
satisfied, leaving the remainder for the benefit of all, and without any other lands being left for any person to enter; and in
order to prevent any other from coming to meddle and create
difficulties between the citizens, as well as the Indians, I gave
time to understand which were their boundaries, which are:
On the north, the Vallecito der la Cueva, on the south the termination of the Indian league. On the east, the boundary of
Vallecito; and on the west, the opening towards the middle
arroyo and the Rito de la Jara; and no injury resulting to any
one they were all satisfied, and in order that it may so appear, I,
the said chief justice, signed with my two attending witnesses
in the absence of a public or royal notary, there being none
within the limits of all this government, to which I certify.
"ANToMo DE ARmEA.

"Witnesses:
" S.ALvADR

"Jos5

LOPEZ.

MIGUEL GRoiA."

In 1879, when the documents of 1788 were produced by
claimants and filed in the archives, the following certificate
was also brought forward by them and put on file:
"In the Cafion de San Diego de Jemez on the, fourteenth
day of the month of March, year 1798, before me, Antonio

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

de Armenta, and there being assembled all the citizens who
took possession of the said cation, together with Francisco
Garcia de Noriega and Antonio Garcia de Noriega, two
brothers of the first possessors, said Garcias. declared in a
loud and clear voice, which all heard, because they shouted it
with much distinctness, and they all unanimously agreed to
abide by what was said by the said Garcias, and their reasons
were these. Friends and brothers, now each of you is about
to take the lands, which His Majesty has granted and donated
to you; but you are all notified that the lands, which we first
and in our first grant, we have been possessing, be all of. you
aware that I, and my brother are going to enjoy the same
freely, without any of those present, nor their children nor
anybody else shall desire to interpose obstacles, and because
as first possessors we have the right to enjoy said lands and
to cultivate them with full title, as well ourselves, our children and our successors; and so that none of those who are
present may plead ignorance we have so spoken to-day there
being no one absent. The said Garcias having made all the
remarks, all unanimously replied that they asked reasonable
justice and that neither by themselves, their children, nor
successors would there be interposed any suit or demand
against them at any time, and if they perchance should wish
to do so they would take the case until leaving them in peace
concerning the said land which they had been so'justly possessing.
"All here set forth I, said chief justice, witness, for all of
the citizens declared that it was not to them any imposition
that the Messrs. Garcias should enjoy the lands which they
were heretofore cultivating, and that it may so appear whenever requisite I will make this document in favor of the said
two Garcias, I sign the same with those of my attendance in
the aforesaid cafion in said day, month and year, to which I
certify.
'IANTO.DE ARmENTA.'

It also appeared that there were among the old archives the
following:*

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"Governor: The interpreter of the Navajos, Antonio Garcia, has presented to me a document executed to him by the
former alcalde of this jurisdiction, Antonio de Armenta, under
the decree of Don Fernando de la Concha, as appears from
the grant itself, and the whole of the Jemez Cafion, having
been settled under an order of Don Fernando Chacon in a
royal grant made to them and in which it embraced the lands
granted to the Garcias, whence results contention between'
the one and the others the latter grantees alleging title to all
the land; and I, deeming that. the title claimed by Antonio
Garcia is founded'in law, he having been the prior settler for
the period of ten years, with the condition that at the time
they were given possession all the new settlers gave their
consent, as said Garcia makes appear by a document which
the alcalde executed to the two brothers and which I enclose
to you, together with the grant of the Garcias, so that affeP
seeihg you may order whatever you shall deem proper and
may, if Garcia has a right to the land claimed, confirm and
approve the same, to obviate all questions which will necessarily result if the latter be not 'decided by your superiority
that the land of the Garcias is included or not in the grant
of the last settlers and whether a copy of this grant be taken
so that the original, which is the one I enclose, may remain
in the archives of the Government confirmed by you, and the
same to be done with'a copy, subject to what you may direct,
which will be the best and most correct, your ordering what
I shall do to avoid proceedings annoying your attention. God
preserve you many years.

"(IGNTIO

S Nonz

VERGARAL.

"Santa Ana, 1st of December, 1808.
"Lieutenant Colonel Jos6 Manrique."
"Advised of your official communication of the first instant
and documents you accompany.
"I will state to you that the subject does not require any
decision of mine inasmuch as the grant of the Garcias makes
their right clear, which grant being the older always has a

OCTOBER TERME, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

preference. The last settlers cannot deny to the Garcias
a better title and so these should always remain on the same
grant which they have held hitherto; and if the said new
settlers do not coincide you will not permit them recoutse for
and such which they may possess, they will not have the royal
audience of Guadalajara, as the documents referred to were
sanctioned by former governors of this province and the said
royal audience alone can annul them; with which I answer
your official communication before mentioned. I return to
you the documents mentioned that you may deliver them
to the party interested. God preserve you many years.
"Santa F6, 13th of tecember, 1808.
"To the alcalde of Jemez."
On the 4th day of June, 1859, certain claimants for themselves and in the name of the actual settlers petitioned the
Surveyor General of N~ew Mexico, Pelham, for a confirmation
of the grant of March 6, 1798, who took action thereon. In
the proceedings it appeared from the evidence that a town
existed on the grant some sixty years before and was in
existence when the United States took possession, and the
testimonio of the original granting papers, heretofore given,
certified to as correct and genuine by the alcalde, Don Antonio
Armenta, with his attending witnesses, on March 16, 1798, in
due form, "at the verbal request of the parties," which was
.then on file in the office of the Surveyor General, was considered and acted on by him. The Surveyor General made
his report to Congress, under date -June 10, 1859, approving
the grant, and stating that "the evidence shows that the town
has been in continuous occupation of the claimants, and was
in existence when the United States assumed sovereignty over
the country." The grant was thereupon confirmed by Congress, June 21, 1860, 12 Stat. 71, c. 167,-§ 3. The patent for
this grant was issued October 21, 1881, to the original twenty
grantees and those claiming under or through them.
In 1879, Amado Chaves, for himself and the other heirs of
the two Garcias, petitioned the then Surveyor General, Atkinson, for the approval and confirmation of the grant of 1788,

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

and in the proceedings before him the papers of that date,
together with the certificate of Alcalde Armenta of March 14,
1798, were produced and filed, and considered with the correspoftdence of 1808, and sundry depositions. The Surveyor
General approved the grant, March 22, 1880, and transmitted
a certified transcript of the papers for the action of Congress,
bat the grant was not confirmed.
The evidence tended to show that Francisco and Antonio
Garcia were two Spanish brothers, who were interpreters for
the Iavajos; that Francisco was killed in 1807, and that
Antonio died in 1835.
The depositions of two witnesses, one of them the great
grandson. of Francisco Garcia, born in 1827, and the other
the grandson of Antonio Garcia, born in 1807, were taken
by Surveyor General Atkinson in January, 1880. Both gave
the south boundary of the tract sued for as the junction of
the San Diego and the Guadalupe Rivers, "and the lands
of the Indian pueblo of Jemez." Both testified that the tract
was reputed to belong to the heirs of the two Garcias; that
Francisco was reputed to have lived thereon; -and that Antonio,
who survived until 1835, lived there to their knowledge.
In addition to these depositions, petitioners called as a
witness another great grandson of Francisco, born in 1850,
who testified that his grandmother was born on the tract, and
that "she said the land was occupied and cultivated by them,"
the two Garcias. What particular part of the tract she was
born on and the particular place of occupancy and cultivation
did not appear.
The evidence on behalf of the Government was to the effect
that Antonio Garcia occupied land several hundred varas in
extent, running north from the northL boundary line of the
Indian pueblo, which was subsequently sold by Antonio's
grandson to one of the witnesses, who thereupon took up his
residence in Antonio's house; that Antonio said that he had
"lands in the Indians' league"; "from the Pueblo Indian
league up north"; that the ranches were *in the cafion and
divided into portions of 300 varas each; that heirs of the
original'grantees or persons claiming under them still held

OCTOBER TERM, 1897
Opinion of the Court.

original allotments north of the junction of the rivers; and
that the smaller grant was not generally known.
The survey of -May18, 1880, was as shown in the map on
the next page.
The Court of Private Land Claims, two members dissenting,
held that the claim under the grant of 1788 had been abandoned, and dismissed the petition.
AXh. Henry .M. Earle for appellants.
AXr. Afatthew G.- Reynolds for appellees.
Genera. was on his brief.
Mn.CHEmF

Mr. Solicitor

JUsTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the Spanish law in force at the time of the alleged grant
of 1788, lots and lands were distributed to those who vere
intending to settle, and it was provided that "when said settlers shall have lived and labored in said settlements during
the space of four years, they are hereby empowered, from the
expiration of said term, to sell the same, and freely to dispose
of them at their will as their, own property." But confirmation by the audiencia, or the governor, if recourse to the
audiencia was impracticable, after the four years had elapsed,
was required in completion of the legal title. Laws Indies,
Lib. IV, Tit. 2, Law 1; Royal Order of 1754; 2 White's New
Recop. 48, 62. This is admitted except that it is said that
confirmation was not needed, and was not usually had, until
the settler sought to exercise the power of disposition.
It was also provided that it should "not be lawful to give
or distribute lands in a settlement to such persons as already
possess some in another settlement, unless they shall leave
their former residence and remove themselves to ,the new
place to be settled, except where they shall have resided in
the first settlement during the four years necessary to entitle
them to fee simple right, or unless they shall relinquish their
title to the same for not having fulfilled their obligation."
Lib. IV, Tit. 12, Law 2; 2 Whfte, 49.

CHAVES 'v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

771 N R.Z E.

Plat of the Caffon de San Diego Grant, surveyed by Rob't G. Marmon, U. SDeputy Surveyor, May, 1880. Scale 80 chains-i in.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the granting papers in this record
taken :together do not justify the presumption of settlement
and working by the two Garcias on the tract contained in the
grant of 1788, for the ten years prior to 17.98, or for four
years thereof, or any confirmation of the grant thereupon;
but that the contrary is to be inferred from the testimony in
respect of possession; and that Armenta's certificate of 1798
and the correspondence of 1808 conduct to no other result.
The two Garcias were interpreters to the Indians and they
may not unreasonably be supposed to have resided, in that
capacity, at the pueblo, or ,on lands claimed by the Indians as
appurtenant thereto. The language of the petition and decree
of 1788 was perhaps somewhat peculiar, and it is manifest
that Governor Chacon regarded "the cultivation and working
of the land" by them as not permanent in character; for when
the petition for the grant of 1798 was presented to him on
behalf of the two Garcias and eighteen others, he referred in
his decree to the interpreters as "temporarily stationed" on
the tract solicited, and must be assumed to have been aware
of the nature of their occupation.
The petition of 1798 was a petition for settlement, and it
nowhere intimates that the two Garcias, petitioners "in unison" with the other eighteen proposing to settle, claimed an
independefit interest in the Cafion de San Diego by virtue of
the alleged grant of 1788, but on the contrary it states that
"a quantity of vacant. and uncultivated land lies in the Caion
of San Diego, adjoining the boundaries of the land belonging
to the Indians of the town of Temez," and that "the settlement thereof would be beneficial to the provinces and advantageous to our present families and descendants." The terms
of the decree are entirely. inconsistent with the recognition of
such a claim, and so is the act of juridical possession. In that
act the Alcalde, Armenta, states that in the Cafion de San
Diego de los Jemez, having summoned the natives of the
puetlo of Jemez, to whom was measured the league belonging
to them, he found a surplus of two thousand one hundred
varas, which the Indians had, before arriving at the Caion de
San Diego, and were claiming as their own, but to which he

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

says they had no right in any manner; and believing that it
was the wish of the sovereign that his lands be settled by his
citizens wherever a surplus was found, finding no impediment,
and using the authority in him vested, and finding no one
with a better title, and Francisco Garcia and Antonio Garcia,
the Navajo interpreters, and the eighteen other petitioners,
(naming them,) being present, "all interested and well informed in regard to the matter," he took them over the lands,
performing the usual formal acts in proof of legal possession,
"which they received quietly and peaceably without any opposition whatever, because, after concluding all these ceremonies,
I delivered to each one of the said'settlers three hundred varas,
with which they were well satisfied, leaving the remainder for
the benefit of all, and without any other lands being left for
any person to enter"; and he gave them time to understand
the boundaries, which were: "On the north, the Vallecito de
la Cueva, on the south the termination of the I 9 dian league.
On the east, the boundary of Vallecito; and on the west, the
opening towards the middle arroyo and the Rito de la Jara";
adding: "and no injury resulting to any one they were all
satisfied." Of these boundaries the southern was the north
boundary of the Indian pueblo, and in making the subdivision
Armenta apparently started from that boundary and, after
reaching the junction of the Guadalupe and the San Diego, followed up the Sun Diego, which flowed through the cafion. He
made the distance from the north boundary of the pueblo to
the south boundary of the canon 2100 varas, and, therefore, if
he subdivided that space, must have allotted at least 3900 varas
within the alleged grant of 1788, for he certified that he delivered to "each one of the said settlers three hundred varas,"
which would be six thousand varas in all for twenty settlers.
The government survey shows that distance to have been
something short of 3400 varas. If Armenta meant by "the
said settlers" the eighteen co-petitioners, and left to the interpreters as contradistinguished from these settlers what they
were cultivating between the two*boundaries, then 5400 varas
were allotted to the eighteen within the grant of 1788.
In any view, allotments were made north of the south

OCTOBER TERM,- 189T.
Opinion of the Court.

boundary of the grant now claimed, which was entirely
embraced by the grant of 1798.
The evidence for the petitioners did not show where the
two interpreters were located and what the particular tract
was that was reputed to belong to them in fee, but the evidence for the Government tended sufficiently to establish that
they did not actually cultivate any part of the grant of 1788
prior to 1798. It must be conceded ihat wherever the interpreters were, they were together, and it is quite clear from
the testimony that Antonio Garcia, who survived until 1835,
when one of the witnesses was twenty years old, cultivated
and claimed ownership of. land not within the boundaries of
the grant of 1788, but between the south boundary of that
tract and the north boundary of the Indian pueblo; and the
presumption is that this was so in respect of Francisco.
It is true that when Armenta gave juridical possession
under the grant-of 1788, he described the south boundary as
"the junction of the rivers and also a point of a red table
land and-lands of said Indians." But at that time the Indians
claimed to the junction of the two rivers, and no attempt'was
then made by Armenta to determine the boundary of the
pueblo, as it. would seem would have been the case if the
grant had been of land for settlement with the intention of
acquiring the legal title.
When the proceedings were had before the Surveyor General in 1879-80, the original papers of 1788 were produced
by claimants, and also an independent paper purporting to
have been signed, by Armenta on the 14th day of March,
1798, at the cafion, stating "there' being assembled all the
citizens who took possession of the said caion, together with
Francisco Garcia de Noriega and Antonio Garcia de Koriega,
two brothers of the first possessors "; and that "the said Garcias declared in a loud and clear voice, which all heard, because they shouted it with much distinctness, and they all
unanimously agireed to abide by what was said by the said
Garcias, and their reasons were these. Friends and brothers,
now each of you is about to take the lands, which his Majesty
has granted and donated to you; but you are all notified that

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.

193

Opinion of the Court.

the lands, which we first and in our first grant, we have been
possessing, be all of you aware that I,. and my brother are
going to enjoy the same freely, without any of those present,
nor their children nor anybody else shall desire to interpose
obstacles, and because as first possessors we have the right
to enjoy said lands and to cultivate them with full title, as
well ourselves, our children and our successors." And "all
unanimously replied that they asked reasonable justice and
that neither by themselves, their children, nor successors
would there be interposed any suit or demand against them
at any time"; and that they should be left "in peace concernmg the said land which they had been so justly possessing." And to this Armenta bore witness, because "all of the
citizens declared that it was not to them any imposition that
IMessrs. Garcias should enjoy the lands which they were heretofore cultivating."
There is nothing to show and we think the presumption
cannot be indulged that this so called certificate was brought
to the attention of Governor Ohacon, and the alcalde certainly
had no authority in himself to make an exception to the grant.
The grant of 1798 was a grant for settlement, and by the
allotments contemplated to be made and which were made,
so many parcels, of three hundred varas each, specifically
situated in whole or in part within the cafion and the alleged
grant of 1788, were set off, so that if an exception could have
been created by this independent paper, it involved the proposition that after the allotments had been made, eighteen of
the twenty allottees assented to be. deprived of any right or
title to the lands .which had. just been assigned to them, and
would have been r~pugnant to the grant.
Again, there whs no intimation of such an exception in the
petition, the decree, or the act of juridical possession, nor any
mention of the execution of this paper in that act, nor does
it appear that it was placed in the archives with the title
papers, and when Armenta certified to the testimonio on the
16th of March, 1798, he did not include nor make any mention of this certificate. Mor.eover, it was not attested by witnesses, as required in the instance of official documents, in the
VOL. crXvm-13

OCTOBER TERM , 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

absence of a public or royal notary, of which there was "none
within the limits of all this government," as Armenta certified in the act of juridical possession. It is impossible to
treat this paper as of legal validity as an exception, and to
give it the same force and effect as the act of juridical possession or as if it were a direct reconveyance.
But treating the paper as genuine and entitled to consideration as evidence, it amounts to nothing more than the statement of an assent on the part of the eighteen that the Garcias
should not be disturbed as to the particular land they were
cultivating, which we are satisfied from the evidence was not
within the' grant of 1788 at all. It furnishes no basis for
permitting the Garcias to repudiate the official action of the
alcalde in making the allotments to their co-petitioners, they
having been present, participating in the proceedings, and
parties to the transaction from the beginning.
This brings us to consider the papers of 1808, which consist
of a communication of Alcalde Vergara to Governor Manrique
and an unsigned note purporting to be the governor's reply
thereto. The alcalde states that "the interpreter of the Navajos, Antonio Garcia," has presented to him a document in his
favor, executed by-the former alcalde, -Armenta, under the decree of Governor Concha, "as appears from the grant itself,
and the whole of the Jemez cafion having been settled under
an order of Don Fernando Ohacon in a royal grant made to
them, and in which it embraced the lands granted to the
Garcias, whence results contention between the one and the
others, the latter grantees alleging title to all the lands;
and I, deeming that the title claimed by Antonio Garcia is
founded in law, he having been the prior settler for the period
of ten years, with the, condition that at the time they were
given possession all the new settlers gave their consent, as
sai'd Garcia makes appear by a document which the alcalde
executed to the two brothers and which I enclose to you,
together with the grant of the Garcias, so that after seeing
you may order whatever you shall deem proper and may, if
Garcia has a right to the land claimed, confirm and approve
of the same, to obviate all questions which will necessarily re-

CHAVES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sult if the latter be not decided by your superiority that the
land of the Garcias is included or not in the grant of the last
settlers."
It will be perceived that the controversy is asserted to be
not whether the Garcias' land included that of the. other
settlers, but whether the land of the latter embraced that of
the Garcias. It is this question which the governor is asked
to determine. The "others" are plainly the eighteen settlers,
and they are the grantees who are said to be alleging title to
all the lands. The reply of the governor stated that the
subject did not require his decision, "inasmuch as the grant of
the Garcias makes their right clear, which grant being the
older always has a preference"; and that the last settlers
could not deny to the Garcias a better title, and so these
"should always remain on the same grant which they have
held hitherto." And he added-that "if the said new settlers
do not coincide," he should not permit them recourse, for "as
the documents referred to were sanctioned -by former governors of this province," the royal audiencia of Guadalajara
alone could annul them.
This correspondence was entirely ex parte and without the
knowl6dge of the other settlers, and was in no respect judicial
action. The reply signified the individual opinion of the governor, not that the new settlers could be driven from their
own holdings, but that they could not claim the land actually
occupied by the Garcias. And he expressly declined to adjudicate in. the premises because unable to take jurisdiction in
respect of documents "sanctioned by former governors."
Now what had been sanctioned in 1789 by Governor Chacon
was the grant and allotments of that date, and it does not appear that in 1808 the validity of those allotments was questioned. The communication of Vergara related to the land
that had been formerly cultivated by the Garcias and to which
they were given a preferred right by Armenta at the time of
delivering juridical possession in 1798; and Vergara stated
that the whole of the caion had, when he wrote, been settled
under the grant of that year.
The Court of Private Land Claims held that Governor

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Chacon was justified in regarding the petition to him as in
the nature of a request on the part of the Garcias to make
-to the twenty petitioners a grant of the whole tract within
the boundaries specified and as an offer of release of all-claims
to any pait of the land by virtue of the grant of 1788 ; that
the act of juridical possession showed that the twenty petitioners, including the Garcias, were placed in possession and each
received three hundred varas of land, leaving the remainder to
be held in common; that the certificate of Armenta of 1798
was probably signed before the act of juridical possession,
and reasonably bore the construction that the petitioners had
agreed,, in pursuance of an original understanding,. that a
colony of twenty persons should be formed, of which the two
Garcias should be members, to settle in the cafion and that
the Garcias should surrender all claim under the grant of
1788, and accept'their proportion of the new grant with the
new settlers, share and share alike; that the Garcias accepted
the agreement of their co-grantees as a guarantbe that in any
distribution of the land which might be made their allotments
should cover the particular portion which they had theretofore been cultivating; that by thereafter accepting their allotments the Garcias became parties to the official action of the
alcalde and were bound by it; and that they each accepted
three hundred varas as their equal part in compliance with
the terms of the-grant and of the agreement, and to their
entire satisfaction. On the other hand, it might fairly be
argued that Arrienta in the act of juridical possession in
1798 left to the Garcias all the lana which they were ctually
cultivating south of the south boundary of the grant of 1q88,
and assigned to the eighteen last settlers 5400 varas north of
that boundary and in the grant itself, and that the certificate
of 1798 was merely in authentication of an assent to the
.allotment to the Garcias, as co-settlers with the eighteen, of
lands previously.possessed by them south of the grant of 1788,
and not to an exception of that grant out of the grant of
1798. Although the Garcias, if they should be regarded as
prior settlers, did not "leave their former residence and remove themselves to the new place to be settled," they brought

C AVES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

themselves into connection with it and relinquished whatever
rights they had outside of the particular land resided on and
cultivated. The 2100 varas were surplus lands so far as the
Indians were concerned, and vacant in the sense that the Indians had no title to them, yet nevertheless the interpreters
may have been in occupation thereon as outlying Indian lands,
and upon the surplus being ascertained, may have asserted
a superior right to what they were there cultivating, and
demanded that that be conceded in the distribution under the
new grant. If this were so, it would satisfactorily explain
the certificate of Armenta and the contention referred to by
Vergara.
We are not dealing with the rights of the Garcias as between them and other claimants, but with the rights of the
Garcias as between them and the Government of Spain, and
in that regard the question is whether that Government conveyed to others what had already been conveyed to the
Garcias. Whether then the Garcias did or did not take three
hundred varas each north of the south boundary of the grant
of 1788, they would be equally bound by their participation
in the grant of 1798, although in the distribution thereunder
they were allotted even more than that south of that boundary
under the circumstances.
Accepting either construction of the documents and in the
light of all the evidence, the conclusion of the court below
was correct.
The suggestion that some of the allotments may have been
in the Cation Guadalupe finds no such support in the record
as to require consideration.
.Aflrnwd.

