THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CQ. 451
Statement of the Case.

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT AND
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
EX ICo.
No. 91. Argued November 2, 8, 1897. -Decided December 6,189T.
That which has been decided on one appeal or writ of error, cannot be reexamined on asecond appeal or writ of error, brought in the same suit.
Whenever a case comes from the highest court of a State for review, and,
by statute or settled practice in that State, the opinion of the court is a
part of the record, this court may examine such opinion for the purpose
of ascertaining the grounds of the judgment.
Although the judgment and the mandate in a given case in this court
express its decision, it may examine the opinion for the purpose of
determining what matters were considered, upon what grounds the
judgment was entered, and what has become settled, for the future
disposition of the case.
In the former decision of this case, 95 U. S. 391, the decree was reversed
on the ground that the bill, as it stood, was technically a bill of review;
but it was further decided that certain matters then in issue were sufficiently and effectually determined by the proofs already in, and the reversal did not throw open the case for additional proofs upon such
matters.
An infant is ordinarily bound by acts done in good faith by his solicitor or
counsel in the course of the suit, to the same extent as a person of full
age; and a decree made in a suit in which an infant is a party, by consent
of counsel, without fraud or collusion, is binding upon the infant qnd
cannot be set aside by rehearing, appeal or review.
A compromise made in a pending suit which appears to the court to be for
the benefit of an infant, party to the suit, will be confirmed without reference to a master; and, if sanctioned by the court, cannot be afterwards
set aside except for fraud.

THE facts in this case are as follows: In 1841 the Republic
of Mexico made a grant to Charles Beaubien and Guadalupe
Miranda of a large tract of land, generally known of late as
the Maxwell Land Grant; so known because Lucien B. Maxwell, having acquired title from Beaubien and Miranda or
their heirs, was, or at least claimed to be, for many years the
sole owner. In September, 1859, the heirs of -Charles Bent,
namely, Alfred Bent and his two sisters, Teresina Scheurick

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

and Estefana Hicklin, brought a suit in the District Court for
the county of Taos in the Territory of New Mexico, against
Beaubien, Miranda and Maxwell, claiming that under a parol
contract their father, Charles Bent, was interested with. Beaubien and Miranda in the ownership of the grant, and praying
that such interest be established and decreed, and that it be
also set off to them by partition. In June, 1865, upon the
pleadings and proofs the court decreed to them an undivided
fourth part of the grant, and appointed commissioners.to make
partition, giving specific directions for their guidance. Nothing was done under this decree. Soon thereafter negotiations
were entered into between plaintiffs and Maxwell foi' a compromise of the litigation on the basis of Maxwell paying them
a money consideration to relinquish their claim. It was
agreed by the three plaintiffs that Alfred Bent and Aloys
Scheurick, the husband of one of the sisters, should act in the
inatt& as their agents to sell to Maxwell for the best price
they could obtain, but never less than $21,000, or what Beaubien's heirs received. This compromise was advised and 'approved by their counsel. A conference was had in September
or October, 1865, at. Maxwell's residence, at which Alfred
Bent demanded $21,000 and Maxwell offered $18,000. Alfred
Bent returned from that conference to Taos, where the family
resided; without having effected 'a definite agreement as to
the price. The plaintiffs, however, considered the sale as
good as made, but Alfred Bent advised his co-plaintiffs that
they could get a few thousands more by being quiet a few
days, insisting, however,.on having as much as the Beaubien
heirs should receive. The plaintiffs expected to close the
.bargain in a few days, were ready to make the deeds as soon
as the matter was settled, and the deeds were in fact written
out by Scheurick, the husband of one of the plaintiffs. Before
the compromise was consummated and on December 15, 1865,
Alfred Bent died, leaving surviving him his widow, Guadalupe
Bent, and three infant children, Charles, Julian and Alberto
Silas, aged respectively six, four and one years. "On April 12
his widow was appointed administratrix of his estate and
qualified. Just before his death Alfred Bent made a will, by

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. 453
Statement of the Case.
which he gave and bequeathed to his wife, "for the maintenance of her and my three children, Charles, Julian and Silas
Bent, all of my real and personal property." But this will
was not presented until March, 1867, when it was approved
and admitted to probate. Beaubien, one of the original
grantees, had left six children surviving. -Maxwell married
one of them, and between April 4, 1864, and January 1, 1870,
purchased the interests of the other five for a consideration of
not more than $3500 each. On April.9, 1866, the death of
Al'fred Bent was suggested, and his minor children and heirs,
Charles, Julian and Alberto Silas, were by order of the court
substituted as complainants in place of their father. On April
12, the mother of these minors, Guadalupe Bent, was by the
court appointed guardian ad liten and commissioner in chancery for such minors, with full power to execute deeds or carry
into execution all sales or transfers made of their interest in
and to the real estate described in the suit to Lucien B. Maxwell. A settlement with Maxwell was concluded by Aloys
Scheurick, acting for his wife, his wife's sister and her husband, and the widow as guardian ad litem for the minor children of Alfred, which was acceptable to all the parties, by
which Maxwell was to pay the sum of $18,000 for the conveyance of the interest of the Bent heirs. This compromise was
advised by their leading counsel. In May the two sisters, by
separate deeds, conveyed their interests to Maxwell, and during
the same month Guadalupe Bent, as guardian ad litem and
reciting the order of April 12, also executed to Maxwell a conveyance of the interest of the minors. Each of these conveyances purported to be for the sum of $6000. At the next
term of the court, about four months after the execution and
delivery of these deeds, and on September 10, 1866, a further
order or decree was entered, which read as follows:
"Whereas an interlocutory decree was rendered at a former
term of this court in the above cause, decreeing one fourth of
the land mentioned in the petition herein to the complainants
in this cause, and appointing commissioners to divide and set
apart the portion so decreed, and whereas said interlocutory
decree was never carried into effect, and whereas since the

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

time of the rendition of said decree a mutual agreement' has
been made between the parties to this cause, settling and determining all the equities to the same:
"It is therefore hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed by
the mutual consent and agreement of the said complainants as
well as of the said defendants in this cause, that the ifiterlocutory decree above mentioned, together with all ord~rs made
unde and by virtue of the same, be set aside; and, by the
mutual consent and agreement of the said parties, it is hereby
further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said Lucien B.
Maxwell, one of the defendants in this cause, pay to the said
complainants the sum of eighteen thousand dollars, to be
divided among them per stirpes, that is, to the said Aloys
Scheurick and Teresina Bent, his wife, one third part, and- to
Alexander Hicklin and Estefana Bent, his wife, another third
part, and to Charles Bent, Julian Bent and Alberto Silas Bent,
the children and heirs of Alfred Bent, deceased, the remaining
third part, to be equally divided among the said last named
and to be paid into the hands of Guadalupe Bent, widow of
the -Alfred Bent, deceased, 'and guardian ad litem for said
children for the purposes of the said division.
"And upon the further consent and agreement of the said
parties, it is hereby further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that
the said Alexander Hicklin and Estefana Bent, his wife, the
said Aloys Scheurick and Teresina Bent, his wife, and the said
Guadalupe Bent, guardian, ad litem, for Charles Bent, Julian
Bent and Alberto Silas Bent, children and minor heirs of the
said Alfred Bent, deceased, within ten days from the' day of
the date of this decree, make, execute and deliver to the said
Lucien B. Maxwell good and sufficient deeds of conveyance of all
their right, title, interest, estate, claim and demand of, in and
to the lands in controversy in this cause; the said Guadalupe
Bent guardian ad litem as aforesaid, in the name of Charles
Bent, Julian Bent and Alberto Silas Bent, minor heirs as aforesaid, and the said Alexander Hicklin and Estefana Bent, his
wife, and the said Aloys Scheurick and Teresina Bent, his wife,
"in their own names. And by further consent and agreement
between the said parties, it is hereby further ordered, adjudged

THONSON v.

AXWELL LAND GRANT CO.. 456
Counsel for Parties.

and decreed, that the costs of this suit shall be paid, each of
the said parties to pay the separate costs in the same made
by themselves."
In April, 1870, Maxwell, claiming to have the full title to
the entire grant, conveyed all except a-few acres to the Maxwell Land Grant afd Railway Company. In August of that
year Maxwell and the Maxwell Company filed a bill in the
District Court against the appellants Guadalupe Thompson
and her husband, (the former being the widow of Alfred Bent,
who had since intermarried with George W. Thompson,) and
the three minor children of Alfred Bent, which, after reciting
in a general way the history of :the grant and the proceedings
in the former suit, alleged that it was doubtful whether the
order and decree of September, 1866, fully expressed the agreements of the parties, or fully cancelled and discharged all
claims that the infant heirs of Alfred Bent had in the land,
and prayed that the defendants be adjudged to have no interest in or'title to the premises, equitably or otherwise, and that
the plaintiffs' title be quieted. Subsequently the bill was
amended, and thereafter, the defendants having answered and
proofs having been taken, a decree was entered sustaining the
prayer of the bill and quieting the title of the plaintiffs in the
premises. This decree was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, but on further appeal to this court was
reversed, 95 U. S. 391, and the case remanded to the territorial courts for further proceedings. SubseqUeiit proceedings having been had therein a new decree was entered by the
District Court in favor of the plaintiffs, which on appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Territory was affirmed, and from
such decree of affirmance this appeal has been taken.

-Mr. J.ohn G. Carlisle for appellants. -Yr. S. D: ROU86,
AfXr. James O'Rara, MH. CaZdwell Yeanan,
'. E. T. Wells,
Mr. R. T7. McNeal, Mr. John G. Taylor anfd -MY. Logan
Carlialewere with him on the briefs.
r. Frank Springer and Mr3.A. B. Browne for appellees.
Xhr. A. T. Britton was with them on the brief.

46

OCTOBER, TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiE BREwr,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

It is the settled law of this court, as of others, that whatever has been decided on one appeal or writ of error cannot
be redxamined on a second appeal or writ of error brought
in the same suit. The first decision has become the" settled
law of. the case., Supervisors v. .ennicott, .94 U. S. 498, and
cases cited in the opinion; Clark v. Keith, 106 U. S. 46-1;
Chacffin v. Taylor, 116 U. S. 567; lVorthern. Paceflc Railroad
-v. -Ellis,144: U. S. 458; Great Western Telegraph Company v.
-Burnham,162 U. S. 339, 343.
Whenever a case comes from the highest court of a State
for review, and by statute or settled practice in that State the
opinion of the court is a part of the record, we are authorized
to examine such opinion for the purpose of ascertaining the
grounds of the judgment. I. 0., Water Works Co. v. Louisiana. Sugar Refining Co.,, 125 U. S. 18.; ireiger v. Shelby
Railroad,125 U. S. 39; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188. We
take judicial notice of our own opinions, and although the
judgment and the mandate express the decision of the court,
yet we may properly examine the opinion in order to determine what matters were considered, upon what grounds the
judgment was entered and what has become settled for further
disposition of the case.
We, therefore, turn to the former opinion and the mandate
to see what was presented and decided. The ground upon
which the reversal was ordered was that the bill as presented,
especially after the amendment, was technically a bill of review, and as such could not be maintained for three reasons:
First, because the decree sought to b reviewed was a consent
decree; secondly, because the bill was filed on behalf of an
assignee of the original defendant; and, thirdly, because it
sought a modification of the decree upon a matter of fact not
appearing upon the record, without alleging any newly discovered evidence unknown to the parties before that decree.
The opinion by Mr. Justice Bradley gives a full history of the
litigation, the substance of the allegations in the bill of con-

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

457

Opinion of the Court.

plaint, and points out why, especially after the amendment,
it must be regarded as a bill of review. The amendment put
into the prayer these words: "That for the aforesaid errors of
law, apparent on the face of the said decree of 10th September,
1866, the same may be reviewed and reversed in the points
herein complained 6f." But after demonstrating that the bill
as it stood must be deemed a bill of review, and not sustainable, the opinion proceeds:
"Nevertheless, the general purpose which it evidently bad
in view -the
quieting of the title to the land in question is one towards which a court of equity is always liberally
disposed, as tending to promote the peace of society and the
security of property. And if, instead of seeking to reverse
the decree of September, 1866, (which, for like reasons of
public policy, as applicable to the security of judgments that
have passed into 9'ern adjudicatam,is not allowable,) the bill
had sought to carry that decree -more effectually into execution, it would have been free from legal objections, and
equally conducive to the object in view."
And then, after quoting from Lord Redesdale, it adds:
"The bill in this case, as originally filed, before it was converted by amendment into a bill of review, and abating the
allegations of error in the original decree, approximated to
the character of such a bill as might have been sustained.
The proofs show a cAse which, in our judgment, supports the
conclusions of the decree, to the effect that the terms of compromise made by the adult parties to the suit (including the
mother and guardian of the infant heirs of Alfred Bent) were
advantageous to the said infants, and were so considered and
accepted by the court in their behalf. But, so far as the
present decree undertook to reverse and modify the decree
of September, 1866, we think it is clearly erroneous. Still,
although we feel obliged to reverse the present decree, we
do not think that the bill should be absolutely dismissed.
And, as the whole question between the parties has been
fully litigated on the proofs, it would be unreasonable to
require that these should be taken over again.
"Our conclusion is, that the present decree must be reversed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

with costs, and that the cause be remanded to the court below,
with directions to allow the complainants to amend their bill
as they shall be advised, and with .liberty to the defendantg
to answer any new matter introduced therein; and that all
the proofs in the cause shall stand as proofs upon any future
hearing thereof, with liberty to either party to take additional
proofs upon any new matter that may be put in issue by the
amended pleadings."
The mandate contained an order in the language of the last
paragraph.
Although the former decree, was reversed on the ground
that the bill as it stood was technically a bill of review and
could not, under the- circumstances, be maintained, obviously
the decision went beyond the determination of this matter.
The case was not remanded with instructions to dismiss the
bill as one not maintainable. It was decided that there were
all6gations in the bill which, if certain matters were stricken
out, would , make it properly one to more effectually carry
into execution the consent decree of September, 1866, to establish beyond further controversy the settlement then made,
and to quiet the title of the plaintiffs. It was also perceived
and decided that the proofs already taken made out a case
which justified such relief, and that while the proofs did not
establish one of the principal facts set forth in the original
bill, to. wit, that the settlement was simply carrying into
effect a compromise concluded with Alfred Bent, the father
of the minors, during his lifetime, they did establish that such
settlement made by the mother and guardian was advantageous to the infants, and was so considered and accepted by
the -court in their behalf. Not only was there no dismissal
of the bill, but beyofid that, the case was not opened for new
proofs in respect to'matters distinctly put in issue by the
pleadings as they stood, and in respect to which it was determined that the proofs already in were sufficient. The
plaintiffs were authorized to amend their bill, as they should
-beadvised- but obviously this contemplated such amendments
as would make the bill one of the character, and scope indicated in the opinion. The defendants were given leave to

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANTT CO.

459

Opinion of the Court.

answer any new matter that should be introduced into the
bill, thus impliedly excluding the right to make new answer
to those matters which should not be changed. And further,
while it was ordered that the proofs already taken should
stand as proofs upon any future hearing, no leave was given
to take further testimony upon the matters already in issue,
but simply to make additional proofs upon any new matter
that might be put in issue by the amended pleadings. Language could not be clearer to show that this court decided
that certain matters then in issue were sufficiently and -effectually determined by the proofs. already in, and did not
throw open the case for additional proofs upon such matters.
To now consider the case as reopened in its entirety and to
inquire whether each and all of the matters in issue are or
are not established by the proofs, including those taken subsequently to the prior decision, would be to practically treat
the case as entirely-new, and ignore that which was considered
and determined on the former hearing.
In the light of that decision it is not difficult to reach a
conclusion upon the record as it now stands. When the case
went back to the trial court the plaintiffs added no new
matter to their bill. They made ten amendments, nine of
which consisted simply in striking out certain paragraphs and
sentences, and the tenth in transposing the position in the bill
of one paragraph. There was, therefore, nothing new to
which the defendants were called upon, or permitted by the
decision, to make answer. The parts of the bill stricken out
were such as tended to make it, according to the opinion .f
this court, technically a bill of review, and left it strictly such
a bill as was approved of in that opinion. The defendants
filed answers to the amended bill. These answers contained
new.matter. This new matter was substantially that the
consent decree of September, 1866, was not made at the request or with the consent of the solicitor of the defendants or
any of them, nor did the minors or any one having authority
to represent them ever authorize any solicitor to consent to
any decree for the transfer or surrender of their rights; that
the pretended agreement and proceedings were fraudulent as

OCTOBER TERM; 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to the minors, and involved an unjust, erroneous and illegal
sacrifice of their just and valid rights; that their interest in
the grant alleged to have been sold, released or surrendered
for the sum of $6000 was at that time worth not less than
$100,000, and is now worth a much greater sum, and that the
alleged settlement and compromise was not in any way beneficial or advantageous to the minors,. or necessary for their
support or maintenance. The record now brought before us
contains none of"the proofs taken and offered on the hearing,
but only the findings of fact made by the court. This is in
accordance with the procedure -prescribed, by statute for
the review in-this court of cases. heard and determined in the
territorial courts., It does appear, -however, that after the
return to the trial court of the mandate -in this case, and on
April 7, 1882, the children of. Alfred Bent commenced an
independent suit, against the Maxwell Land Grant Oompany
and all other parties supposed to have any 'interest in the
grant, to establish their title to a one twelfth part of the
estate; that issues were, made up in that case and proofs
taken, and that by consent of counsel the proofs taken in that
case were used as -proofs in this. The findings of fact in the
two cases are substantially similar. In that a decree was
entered dismissing the bill, and it is now pending in this court,
the next case on its docket, and submitted and argued with
this. It may well be considered within the scope of the prior
decision that as no. new matter was introduced into the plaintiffs' bill the defendants were not warranted in setting up any
new defences, and that upon the issues as they stood after the
amendments to the bill, striking out portions thereof and the
proofs then taken, the only thing which the trial court ought
to have done was to have entered a decree thereon quieting
the plaintiffs' title in accordance with the views expressed by
this court.
....
But-passing that, and considering the case in the light of
the issues as they stand upon the amended pleadings and the
findings of fact made by the lower court, we are clearly of
opinion that its decree in 'favor of the plaintiffs must be sustained. These findings show that in the lifetime of Alfred

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT 00. 461
Opinion of the Court.

Bent the counsel of himself and his two sisters advised them
to settle with Maxwell rather than take the award of the
commissioners; that on a conference between Alfred Bent, acting for himself and his sisters, and Maxwell, the former demanded$21,000as the consideration of such settlement, and that
Maxwell offered $18,000, a difference of $3000, or only $1000
for each of the three parties plaintiff; that while no definite
agreement was then completed the Bents considered the sale as
good as made, prepared deeds for carrying such settlement into
effect, and only waited on the advice of Alf red Bent that by delaying a few days they might get more money, he insisting that
they should receive as much as. the Beaubien heirs obtained.
The findings also show that the aihount which was finally accepted was larger proportionately than that which the Beaubien heirs received for their interests; so that while it may be
technically true that no settlement was accomplished during
the lifetime of Alfred Bent, it does appear that negotiations
had proceeded so far that the Bent heirs considered one accomplished, and prepared to carry it into effect. Scheurick and
Hicklin, the husbands of Alfred Bent's two sisters, as well as
the four husbands of the Beaubien heirs, who during these
years sold and conveyed their interests to Maxwell for less
sums proportionally than the Bent heirs received, were intelligent men, ranked among the best citizens of the community,
and were considered men of wealth and influence, so the case
is not one of an advantage taken of ignorance and inexperience. It further appears that the compromise as finally made
was advised by the leading counsel for the Bent heirs; that
the sisters, 'who were adults, with their husbands, executed
deeds for the same amount, and have never since questioned
the propriety and validity of the settlement. The findings
also show that "at and about the year 1866, and for several
years thereafter,.there was no demand for or sales of undivided interests in lands of the quantity, character and location of those in question, such as to create any ascertainable
market value thereof;" that the opinions of the witnesses
examined in the present suit varied from two and one half
cents to one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, and that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

is impossible to satisfactorily ascertain or fix what was the
value per acre of the grant at that time, the "value being
largely speculative for the future." The court further expressly finds that the mothier and guardian ad Zitem knew the
character and scope of the instrument she was signing; knew
that it was a settlement of the claims in favor of her children;
fraud, imposiwas satisfied with the sum paid, and "that eno
tion or error has been shown to have entered into said transaction, or to have brought about said compromise decree."
That infants are. bound by a consent decree is affirmed by
the authorities, and this notwithstanding that it does not
appear that a prior inquiry was made by the court as to
whether it was for their benefit. In 1 Dan. -Ch.P. & Pr.
163, it is said:
"Although the court usually will not, where infants are
coilcerned, make a decree by consent, without an inquiry
whether it is' for their benefit, yet when once a decree has
been pronounced without that previous step, it is considered
as of the same authority as if sueh an inquiry had been
directed, and a certificate thereupon made -that it would be
for their benefit. In the same manner, an order for maintenance, though usually made after an inquiry, if made with(In support of these proposi- out would be.equally binding."
tions many authorities are cited in a note.) . . . "An infant defendant is as much bound by a-decr6e in equity as a
person of full age; therefore, if there be an absolute 'decree
made -against a defendant who is under age, he will not be
permitted to dispute it, unless upon the same grounds as
an adult might have disputed it; such as fraud, collusion or
error."

'In WaZsk v. Walsh, 116 Mass. 377, a decree had been entered
as follows: "And the plaintiff and the defendants,
Thomas Keyes, ....
and also in his capacity of guardian
ad litem of Bridget Walsh and William Walsh, consenting to the following decree: And this court being satisfied
upon the representations of counsel that the decree is fit and
proper to be made as against the said Bridget and William;
it is thereupon ordered, and adjudged, and decreed," etc. On

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

463

Opinion of the Court.

a bill of review filed by the minors this decree was challenged,
among 'other reasons, on the ground that it appeared to have
been made by consent of their guardian ad litem and upon
the representations of counsel without proof. The court decided against the contention, and speaking in reference thbreto,
through Mr. Chief Justice Gray, said:
"An infant is ordinarily bound by acts done in good faith
by his solicitor or counsel in the course of the suit, to the
same extent as a person of full age. Tillotson v. .Hargrave,
3 ]Madd. 494; Levy v. Levy, 3 Madd. 245. And a compromise,
appearing to the court to be for the benefit of an infant, will
be confirmeil without a reference to a master; and, if sanctioned by the court, cannot be afterwards set aside except for
fraud. L1ppiat v. Holley, 1 ]Beav. 423 ; Brookee v. MAostya, 33
Beav. 457, and 2 De G., J. & S. 373.
"If the court does pronounce a decree against an infant by
consent, and without inquiry whether it will be for his benefit,
he is as much bound by the decree as if there had been. a
reference to a master and a report by him that it was for the
benefit of the infant. Mall v. Bukby, 1 Bro. Ch.484; 1 Dan.
Ch. Prac. 164'. The case falls within the general rule, that a
decree made by consent of counsel, without fraud or collusion,
cannot be set aside by rehearing, appeal or review. Tebb v.
Webb, 3 Swanst. 658; Iarrisonv. Rumsey, 2 *Ves. Sen. 488;
Bradih v. Gee, Anbl. 229; S. C. 1 Keny. 73; -Downing v.
Cage, 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 165; Toder v. Sansam, 1 Bro. P. C..
(2d ed.) 468; .Frenchv. Shotwell, 5 Johns. Oh. 555."
Ordinarily indeed a court before entering a consent decree
will inquire whether the terms of it are for the interest of
the infants. It ought in all such cases to make the inquiry,
and because it is its duty so to do it will be presumed, in
the absence of any showing to the contrary, that it has performed its duty. In this case, while the decree fails t6 recite
the making of such an inquiry, there is nothing to indicate
that it *was not made; the circumstances tend strongly to
show- that it was in fact made, and the finding is that- the
conclusion reached by the chancellor as to the advisability of
the settlement was a sound exercise of his discretion. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

true the findings show that this decree of September, 1866,.
was not made by the personal procurement, knowledge or
consent of said Scheurick or Guadalupe Bent, and the fact of
the entry thereof was unknown to them for several years
thereafter. They also show that there is no pleading, order
or prbceeding of record disclosing whether or not any inquiry
was made by the court; but it does appear that the parties
plaintiff, including the infants, were represented by counsel;
that the guardian ad likem as well as the other adult plaintiffs
fully understood the settlement and assented to it; and it is
not strange that, having executed conveyances, they left to
counsel such further action as should be deemed necessary to
perfect the transfer of title. Further, in April prior to this
decree, not only was the suit revived in the name of the
infant heirs of Alfred Bent, but, on motion of the solicitors
for plaintiffs, their mother- was appointed guardian ad litem
and -commissioner in chancery, with full power to execute
deeds and carry into execution all sales or transfers of their
interest in the real estate described to the defendant Maxwell
The court was,.therefore, early advised of the fact of a proposed settlement. The consent decree shows fully the terms
of the settlement, and it certainly is not straining the presumption in favor of judicial action to assume that the court
would not have permitted the entry of this decree, providing
for a settlement whose terms were thus disclosed, without.
being satisfied that such settlement was for the interest of the
minors who were under its charge.
Again, the copy of the order directing the appointment of
the mother as guardian ad item and giving -her authority to
make the conveyance was incorporated into the deed which she
knowingly executed, so that any inspection of the deed would
have disclosed the fact that proceedings were being taken in.
court looking to the accomplishment of this compromise and
settlement. There was no concealment or secrecy in the matter. In this connection we are referred to this paragraph in
the 6pinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory, filed in
the companion case to which we have heretofore referred:
"We do not enter into a discussion at large of the testi-

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. 465
Opinion of the Court.

mony by which it is claimed that the decree of September,
1866, is successfully impeached upon the ground of fraud, and
while we are not prepared, in view of the testimony submitted
since the decision in Tkompson v. -Maxwell,95 U. S. 400, to
say that ' the proofs show a case which, in our own judgment,
support the conclusions of the decree to the effect that the
terms of the compromise made by the adult parties to the suit
(including the mother and guardian of the infant heirs of
Alfred Bent) were advantageous to the said infants and were
so considered and accepted by the court in their behalf,' we do
hold that. the judgment of the court at that time in so considering and accepting said terms was shown to be a fair and reasonable exercise of the chancellor's discretion, and that no fraud,
imposition or error has been shown to have entered into said
transaction or to have brought about said compromise decree."
It will be seen from this that while the Supreme Court of
the Territory, under the new proofs presented, was unable to
express itself as strongly as this court had done, it did consider
that the judgment of the chancellor.in considering and accepting the terms of settlement was a fair and reasonable exercise
of his discretion. in other words, that court seems to have
been of the opinion that under the later testimony it could not
be said that the settlement was in fact advantageous to the
infants, but at the same time found that -the chancellor not
only made inquiry and considered the question of advantage,
but also exercised fair and reasonable discretion in approving
the settlement; and that, certainly, is all that is necessary
to uphold a decree of a court. It would be strange, indeed,
if, when those authorized to represent minors, acting in good
faith, make a settlement of claims in their behalf, and such
settlement is submitted to the proper tribunal, and after examination by that tribunal is found to be advantageous to the
minors and approved by a decree entered of record, such
settlement and decree can thereafter be set aside and held
for naught on the ground that subsequent disclosures and
changed conditions make it obvious that the settlement was
not in fact for the interests of the minors, and that it would
have been better for them to have retained rather- than comVol. CLX-V-80

OCTOBER TER,

1897.

•Opinion of the Court,

promised their claims. If such a rule ever comes to be recognized it will work injury rather than benefit to the -interests
.0f minors, for no one will make any settlement of such claims
for-fear that it may thereafter be repudiated. The best interests of minors require that things that are done in their
behalf, honestly, fairly, upon proper investigation and with
the approval of the appropriate tribunal, shall be held as
binding upon them as similar action taken by adults.
Again, it is said that it appears from the findings that the
guardian ad litem was a Mexican woman, and, at the time of
the execution of the deed, ignorant of the English language,
unfamiliar with business or her duties as guardian, without
knowledge of the boundaries or extent of the grant or of the
character and value thereof ; that Maxwell represented to
Scheurick that the grant was not as large as it was supposed
to be; that it did not extend into Colorado or beyond the Red
River, whereas it did so extend over 200,000 acres; that Scheurick and the guardian ad litem believed and were influenced
by said representations;. that Maxwell, while generous and
magnanimous in many respects, was unscrupulous and tyrannical as well, a resolute and determined man, of large wealth
and great influence throughout the county of Taos and Territory of New Mexico; that he made threats that unless the
Bent heirs accepted $18,000 for their claims they would never
get anything, and that such threats were communicated to
the guardian, ad litem, and that these matters influenced her
in making the'settlement and conveyance. But it also appears
that it was not definitely known at the time where was the
boundary line between Colorado and New Mexico; that the
guardian ad litem acted in concert with the adult plaintiffs
who were dealing with their own interests on the same terms,
and, that she was willing to make the same settlement they
did. And when we take into consideration the character, the
ability and standing of the husbands of the other adult plaintiffs, the fact that their interests were alike, that they all
acted together, that the settlement which was finally made
was so nearly that which the father of. these minors had proposed in his lifetime, the fact that no fraud; imposition or

THOMPSON v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

467

Opinion of the Court.

error entered into the transaction or brought about the settlement, it is going too far to hold that the mere weakness and
ignorance of the guardian ad Zitem, whose interests were
looked after by her brother in law and counsel, or the strength
and vigor of the opposing party, are sufficient to invalidate a
decree otherwise iiot open to objection.
Again, it is urged that the whole of the consideration had
not been paid by Maxwell at the time of the commencement
of this suit. The findings are that, as to the payment, the
testimony is conflicting. It seems that Maxwell gave notes
for the amount to each of the three plaintiffs. The guardian
ad litem testified that the note she received had beeti paid so testifying because her second husband, Thompson, to whom
she was married about thirteen months after the death of
Alfred Bent, and to whom, at the time of the marriage, she
delivered the note with everything else she had, told her it
bad been paid. Other witnesses testified that only a portion
of it had been paid, and the court found that the weight of
the evidence was that at the beginning of the suit a considerable sum was still unpaid, but how much could not be ascertained. Maxivell was at all times a man of ample financial
responsibility. No part of the proceeds of the note was paid
directly to the minors or their mother, but Thompson, her second husband, supported, maintained and educated the minors
dur.ing their minority with the funds of his wife and himself
the same as his own children, keeping no separate account.
The sum and substance of all this is, that each of the three
separate plaintiffs took notes for the money Maxwell was to
pay in settlement. Whether these notes drew interest or not
is not disclosed, but Maxwell was a man of large financial
ability, from whom the notes could have been collected at any
time if the parties desired, and if either of them permitted the
note to remain uncollected it must be assumed that it was for
some good reason, possibly for the sake of the interest ,which
the note drew. There is no finding that the note to the
guardian ad litenm had not long since been paid, but simply
that it had not been fully paid at the time this suit was commenced, to wit, in 1870. If what was paid was not paid to

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the guardian ad litenm it was because she had turned the note,
as well as all other. papers she had, over to her second husband.
Whatever may be said as to the carelessness or the irregularity
of these proceedings it cannot be doubted that substantially
the -proceeds of the note went to the benefit of the children, for
they were" supported and educated by the second husband the
same as his own children. In this connection also it is well
to notice the fact that, according to the inventory filed by the
widow of Alfred Bent as administratrix, outside of the real
estate and the note received from Maxivell, the total assets of
the estate were $1408. The claims admitted and allowed in
the probate court amounted to $2423; and while certain witnesses familiar with his affairs testified that he had both real
.and personal property other than that in the inventory, both
in New Mexico and Colorado, it does not appear what amount,
if any, there was of such property. It would seem from this
that the interests of the minors required the settlement, of thisclaim against 1Maxwell, in order to 'secure funds for their
maintenance and education, for the whole personal estate of
their father, as shown by the inventory, was not suffipient to
pay the claims allowed.
These are all the matters which are called to our attention
as tending to impugn the validity of, this consent decree, and
even if we were at liberty under the terms of the prior decision to consider all these new matters we are of opinion that
there is not enough in them, singly or together, to justify us
in disturbing the settlement which was made and the decree which was entered.
In determining the validity of this transaction it must be
remembered that the petition filed in the original case brought
by Alfred Bent and his sisters disclosed that the interest which
their father claimed in the grant arose out of a parol agreement; and so it is not strange that after a decree had been
rendered in their favor their counsel advised a settlement and
the receipt of money rather than take the chances of further
review in an appellate court; that Alfred Bent, the father of
these minors, with his sisters, entered upon negotiations looking to a settlement of their claims, and that although there

THOMPSO1

v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

469

Opinion of the Court.

was a difference of $3000 between what was demanded and
what Mfaxwell offered, they considered the question as settled,
and prepared deeds for the purpose of making conveyances of
their interests, and that the delay in fully consummating
this settlement was owing to the hope of getting a little more
money; that only the accidental death of Alfred Bent prevented the consummation of that settlement, a settlement by
adults, and one which would never have afforded any excuse
for further litigation, as is shown by the acceptance on the
part of the two sisters of the settlement in their favor; that
while the guardian dd litem was an ignorant and inexperienced woman, her interests were looked after by her brother
in law, who was a capable business man, and by counsel
learned in the law; and, while there may have been some irregularities in the proceedings, yet it is affirmatively found that
there was no fraud, imposition or error in the transaction or
the decree. Surely under those circumstances the decree
ought not to be disturbed.
But there is another aspect in which the equities of this
case may fairly be considered. The will of Alfred Bent gave
the entire estate to his widow-gave it, it is true, for the
maintenance of herself and her children, but nevertheless
passed the title to her; and though the will had not been
probated at the time of this settlement, it was soon thereafter,
and, bf course, became operative as and from the date of his
death, so that at the time of the settlement the title to this
property was in her. The owner by his will gave this property to his widow, and by such will trusted to her to make
such disposition of it as she should deem jbest, relying upon
her to use the proceeds for her own maintenance and that of
her children. He had a right to make such a disposition of
the property and entrust it absolutely to her, and that in
respect to this property it was not an unwise disposition is
evident, for although he must have known of her inexperience
in matters of business, he also knew that her interests were
identical with those of his sisters, and that their common
interests would be cared for' by those competent to look after
such affairs. If the settlement made by the sisters, as adults,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
,Opinion of the Court.

is *beyond challenge, should not that made by the widow, also
an adult, be upheld, and for the same reasons? The question,
under those circumstances, would be not whether she was
guilty of any wrongful use of the funds which she received,
but whether she as the holder of the title was fraudulently
led into the settlement. It is, of course, not necessary to rest
this case upon such suggestions, but they are certainly worthy
of consideration in determining its equities.
In conclusion, it may not be inappropriate to call attention
to some things which are matters of public history, and which
are referred to at some length in the faxwell Land Grant
Case, 121 U. S. 325. The Mexican colonization law limited
the amount of a grant to a single individual to eleven square
leagues, and it was claimed that all grants like this in whith
outboundaries were named were to be taken as simply grants
of eleven square leagues per individual, to be laid off within
such outboundaries. As there were in this case two grantees,
Beaubien and Miranda, it-was according to the claim a grant
by the Mexican authorities of only twenty-two square leagues,
or 97,424 acres. While this, with other grants, was on June
21, 1860, confirmed by act of Congress, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71,
claim was still made that the confirmation was operative only
for the twenty-two square leagues. Some of the Secretaries
of the Interior of the United States refused to issue patents
in such cases for any more than eleven square leagues per
individual grantee, and not until the case of Tameling v.
United S t ates Feehold Co., 93 U. S. 644, decided in 1876,
was it settled that such an act of confirmation was equivalent
to a grant de novo, and included all the lands within the outboundaries. Indeed, in the opinion in the Maxwell Land
Grant Case, suPra, decided in 1887, it is intimated that the
Tameling case was not conclusive upon the question, because
that was an action in ejectment in which the legal title shown
by the patent prevailed, and not until the case then being
considered, in which was a direct attack by the United States
upon a patent, could it be held that there was a final adjudication of the question. So that while the owners of the land
grant were claiming as against the Government the whole

HYER v. RICHMOND TRACTION COMPANY.

471

Syllabus.

area within the outboundpries it was still an unsettled question whether they would finally succeed in obtaining more
than the twenty-two square leagues. Was it not a wise
settlement for parties, whose claim to an interest in what
might be found to be less than 100,000 acres rested simply
on a parol agreement therefor, to obtain for that interest a
sum which was more than half what the best government
land could be purchased for? We think it can be well said,
in the language of the Supreme Court of Mew Mexico, "that
the judgment of the court at that time in so considering and
accepting said terms was shown to be a fair and reasonable
exercise of the chancellor's discretion."
We see no error in this record, -and the decree is
Affirmed.
Rn. JUSTICE SmAs

BENT

V. MIRNDA.

and Mn. JusmCE WHITE dissented.
Appeal from the Supreme Court of the

Territory of New Mexico.
the same counsel.

No. 91. Argued with No. 90 and by

MR.JUSTICE BREWER: This is a case, the com-

panion of that just decided, as has been indicated in the opinion in
that case, and the same considerations compel an affirmance of the
decree herein.
M . JUSTICE SHIRA9 and Mit. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

HYER v. RICHMOND TRACTION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 879. Submitted October 18, 1897. -Decided

December 6, 1897.

Hyer and Shield were engaged separately, each on behalf of himself and his
associates, in seeking from the city government of Richmond a concession for a street railway with collateral lines. Hyer's organization was
to be called the Richmond Conduit Company, and Shield's the Richrdond
Traction Company. Hyer made a deposit of money in a bank in Richmond to aid in his projects. Hyer and Shield then contracted in writing
as follows, each being fully authorized thereto by his associates: ,We

