OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

consequently, there could be no confirmation of any alleged
imperfect title or grant.
The judgment of the Court of P'ivate.Land Olaims must,
therefore, be reversed on the ajopeal of the United States,
and the recordremanded to that court, with directions to
enterjudgment in conformity with this opinion.

ALASKA MINING COMPANY v. WHELAN.
MRR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NUITH
CIRCUIT.
No.55. Submitted March 17,1897.-

Decided October 18, 189T.

Where the business of a mining corporation is under the control of a general manager, and is divided into three departments of which the mining
department is one, each with a superintendent under the general manager, and in the mining department are several gangs of workmen, the
foreman of one of these gangs, whether he has or has not authority to
engage and discharge the men under him, is a fellow-servant with-them;
and the corporation is not liable to one of them for an injury caused by
the foreman's negligence in managing the machinery or in giving orders
to the men.

THIS was an action brought in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Alaska against a mining corporation by a workman in its employ. The complaint alleged that "on November 23, 1891, and for nearly six months
prior thereto, this plaintiff was in the employ of said defendant,
as a workman in the mine of said defendant, in breaking
and preparing rock for the chutes, and doing other work as
ordered by the foreman of said defendant, one Samuel Finley,
under whom this plaintiff worked, and from whom he received
his orders; that on November 23, 1891, while this plaintiff was
yet in the employ of said defendant, he was ordered by the
foreman of said defendant company to break rock immediately
above and over one of the chutes of the defendant company;
that in compliance with the orders of the foreman of said

ALASKA MINING COMPANY v. WHELAN.
Statement of the Case.

defendant, and as became his duty so to do, the plaintiff proceeded to his place immediately above and over said chute, and
commenced to break said rock as he had been ordered so to
do ; and that while so engaged, and carefully and skilfully and
without negligence performing his duties as aforesaid, and
without the knowledge of this plaintiff, and carelessly and negligently, the foreman of said defendant drew or caused to be
drawn the gate at the mouth of said chute over which this
plaintiff was working, thereby causing the rock at the head of
said chute to be suddenly drawn in, carrying this plaintiff with
it, through said chute, a distance about thirty feet, and completely covering him with great quantities of rock and debris,"
thereby greatly injuring him.
At the trial, the plaintiff being called as a witness in his own
behalf, gave evidence tending to support the allegations in the
complaint; and testified that on the night of November 23,
1891, he was sent by Samuel Finley, the boss in the pit, to the
top of a chute, there to break rock and pound it fine enough
to go through the chute, which connected with the tunnel
through which the rock was shot into cars to be taken to the
mill; that at the bottom of the chute was a gate, always
closed until the chute was filled and orders given to draw it;
that Finley's custom was to come upon the top of the chute to
see if the rock was broken fine enough, and, if it was all right,
to tell the men to come down as he was going to draw; and
that at the time in question, after putting the plaintiff and
others to work at the chute, he never gave them any notice
that he was going to draw.
Finley, being called as a witness for the defendant, testified
that he did give notice to the men before drawing the chute.
The defendant introduced evidence, which was uncontradicted
that its business was under the control of a general manager,
and was divided into three departments, the mine, the mill
and the chlorination works, each of which departments had a
foreman or superintendent under the general manager; that
the mine department had three shifts or gangs of workmen,
two by day and one at night; and that Finley was boss of the
one at night.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

There was conflicting evidence upon the question whether
Finley had authority to engage and discharge the workmen
under him.
No other material testimony was introduced as to the
relation of the plaintiff and Finley to each other or to the
defendant.
At the close of the whole evidence, the defendant requested
the court to direct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, upon the ground that the plaintiff's injuries were the
result of the negligence of a co-employ6, or fellow-workman,
Samuel Finley, for which the defendant was not liable. The
court overruled the motion, and the defendant excepted to
the ruling.
The court afterwards instructed the jury as follows: "The
true test is whether the person in question is employed to do
any of the duties of the master; if so, he cannot be regarded
as the fellow-servant, but is the representative of the master,
and any negligence on his part in the performance of the duty
thus delegated to him must be regarded as the negligence of
the master. You have heard the testimony as to Finley's
authority and duties, and whether or not he had any power to
employ men or discharge them, or whether he simply acted
under another man who had the same power over him that
was exercised over other laborers."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment
was rendered thereon, and affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 29 U. S. App. 1. The defendant sued out this writ
of error.
.Mr.. Z. Blakeman for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Oscar Foote for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTicE GR.Y, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The evidence introduced at the trial, giving it the utmost
possible effect in favor of the plaintiff, was insufficient to sup-

ALASKA MINING COMPANY v. WHELAN.
Opinion of the Court.

port a verdict for him; and the defendant's request, made at
the close of the whole evidence, to instruct the jury to return
a verdict for the defendant, because Finley, whose negligence
was -the ground of the action, was a fellow-servant of the
plaintiff, should have been granted.
Finley was not a.vice-principal or representative of the corporation. He was not the general manager of its business, or
the superintendent of any department of that business. But
he was merely the foreman or boss of the particular gang of men
to which the plaintiff belonged. Whether he had or had not
authority to engage and discharge the men under him is immaterial. Even if he had such authority, he was none the less a
fellow-servant with them, employed in the same department
of business, and under a common head. There was no evidence that he was an unsuitable person for his place, or that
the machinery was imperfect or defective for its purpose.
The negligence, if any, was his own negligence in using the
machinery or in giving orders to the men.
The case is governed by a series of recent decisions of this
court, undistinguishable in their facts from this one. Central
Railroad v. Keegan, 160 U. S. 259; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Charless, 162 U. S. 359; Same v. Peterson, 162 U. S.
346; Martin v. Atchison &c. Railroad,166 U. S. 399. See
also Wilson v. Merry, L. R. 1 H. L. So. 326.
This ground being decisive of the case, no opinion need be
expressed upon other questions argued at the bar.
Judgments of the Circuit Court of Apveals and of the District Court reversed, and case remanded to the District
Court with directions to set aside the verdict and to order
a new trial.
The OnmF JusTcE and Mr.. JUsTIic

I[ALAw dissented.

