OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

COMPANIA DE NAVIGACION LA FLECHA v.
BRAUER.
OERTIORA.I TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 89. Argued March 29, 80, 1897.-Decided

October 28, 1891.

A contract, made at 1ew York to carry cattle on deck of a steamboat from
New York to Liverpool, contained these provisions: "On deck at
owner's risk, steamer not to be held accountable for accident to, or mortality of, the animals, from whatever cause arising." "The carrier shaU
not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by causes beyond his control, by the perils of the sea, or other waters;" "by barratry of the
master or crew;" "by collisions, stranding or other accidents of navigation, of whatsoever kind, even when occasioned by the negligence,
default, or error in judgment of the pilot, master, mariners or other
servants of the shipowner." Held, that by the terms of this contract,
whether governed by the law of this country or by the law of England,
the carrier was not exempted from responsibility for the loss of sound
cattle, forcibly thrown or driven overboard, in rough weather, by order
of the master, from unfounded apprehension on his part, in the absence
of any pressing peril to the ship, and with no apparent or reasonable
necessity for a jettison of the sound cattle, and no attempt to separate
them from those which had already been injured by perils of the sea.

Tnis was a libel in admiralty in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York by
William W. Brauer and Frederick C. Brauer, residing and
doing business as partners under the name of William W.
Brauer & Company at Richmond in the State of Virginia,
and by the Reliance 'Marine Insuran'ce Company, Limited, of
Liverpool, a corporation organized under the laws of Great
Britain, against the Compania de Navigacion la Flecha, a
corporation organized under the laws of Spain, and owner of
the steamship Hugo, to recover for the loss of cattle shipped
by the partnership October 21, 1891, on deck of the Hugo at
New York for Liverpool under a bill of fading, the material
parts. of which are copied in the margin, the parts there

COMANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Statement of the Case.

]printed in ordinary type being in print, and those in italics
being in writing, in the original.'
The libel alleged that the vessel, having one hundred and
' Received in apparent good order and condition, by the Spanish steamer
Hugo, from Win. W. Bauer & Co., to oe transported by the good steamship Hugo, now lying in the port of New York, and bound for Liverpool,
one hundred and sixty-five live cattle on deck. On deck at owner's risk,
steamer not to be held accountablefor accident to, or mortality of, the animals,
.from whatever cause arising; being marked and numbered as per margin
(weight, quality, contents and value unknown), and to be delivered in like
good order and condition at the port of Liverpool (or so near thereto as
she may safely get) unto shippers' order or to his or their assigns. Freight
.prepaidin New York. General average payable according to York-Antwerp
rules.
It Is mutually agreed that the ship shall have liberty to sail without
pilots; to tow and assist vessels in distress; to deviate'for the purpose of
saving life or property; that the carrier shall have -liberty to convey goods
in lighters to and from the ship at the risk of the owners of the goods;
and, In case the ship shall put into a port of refuge, or be prevented from
-any cause from proceeding in the ordinary course of her voyage, to tranship
the goods to their dettination by any other steamship.
It is also mutually agreed that the carrier shall not be liable for loss or
-damage occasioned by causes beyond his control, by the perils of the sea,
or other waters; by fire from any cause and wheresoever occurring; by
barratry of the master or crew; by enemies, pirates or robbers; by arrest
.and restraint of princes, rulers or people-, riots, strikes or stoppage of
labor; by explosion, bursting of boilers, breakage of shaft, or any latent
-defect in hull or machinery, or appurtenances; by collisions, stranding, or
other accidents of navigation, of whatsoever kind, (even when occasioned
by the negligence, default, or error in judgment- of the ijilot, master,
-mariners or other servants of the shipowner, not resulting, however, in
any case, from want of due diligence by the owners of the ship, or any of
them, or by the ship's husband or manager); nor by decay, heating, putrefaction, rust, sweat, change of character, drainage, leakage, breakage, or
any loss or damage arising froin the nature of the goods or the insufficiency
-of packages; nor for land damage; nor for the obliteration, errors, insuffi•ciency or absence of marks, or numbers, address or description.; nor for
risk of craft, hulk or transhipment; nor for any loss or damage caused by
the prolongation of the voyage.
14. Also, that this contract shall be governed by British law, with
reference to which law this contract is made.
And, finally, in accepting this bill of lading, the shipper, owner and
consignee of the goods, and the holder of the bill of lading, agree to be
bound by all of its stipulations, exceptions and conditions, whether written

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

sixty-five head of live cattle on board, sailed for the port of
Liverpool on October 24, 1891; that "about October 31,
-1891, the said vessel having encounlered some rough -weather,
the master and crew of said vessel became panic stricken, and
drove overboard one hundred and twenty-six head of cattle;
the-said vessel did not incur any extraordinary or unusual
stress of weather, and- the act of said master and crew in
driving overboard said cattle was wholly unnecessary, and
the loss of said cattle was due to the incompetency and lack
of skill of the master and crew;" that the vessel afterwards
arrived safely at Liverpool, and delivered to the shippers or
their agents thirty-eight of the cattle in good condition, one
having died; and that the insurance company, having insured
the cattle, paid the partnership for the loss, and took an assignment of its rights of action against the, steamer and her
owners.

The answer alleged that the receipt, transportation and delivery of the cattle were subject to the terms and conditipns of
-a contract between the shippers and the respondents, dated
October 10, '18911, (which is copied in the margin,) and of the
or printed, as fully as if they were all signed by such shipper, owner,
consignee or holder.
1 White Star Line.
Cattle contract - Memorandum' of agreement concluded at New York the tenth day of October, 1891, between H. Maitland Kersey, agent of the Spanish steamer Hugo, and Messrs. William
H. Brauer & Co., of Richmond, Virginia.
The agent agrees to let to the said shipper suitable space, as undernoted,
for the transportation of live cattle; this is to say:
On the steamer Hugo,-intended to sail from New York about Oct. 24th,
1891, for Liverpool, England.
For about one hundred sixty live cattle onthe upper deck.
No other cattle to be carried this voyage.
The shippdr agrees to ship all the cattle, as above mentioned, at the rate
of ifty shillings, British sterling, for each animal shipped on open decks,
The shipper especially agrees to prepay freight on the above mentioned
shipments on date of sailing, in current funds at the rate for which prime
bankers are selling sight bills on London, on the number of cattle shipped
at New York, vessel lost or not lost, and irrespective of the number landed
at the port of destination, and the shipper assumes all risk of mortality or
accident, however caused, throughout the voyage.

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Statement of the Case.

bill of lading; admitted the sailing of the vessel with the
cattle on board, and a loss of the cattle; denied the other allegations of the libel; and contained the following averments:
Stalls to be put up at ship's expense, and to be constructed to the satisfaction of the inspector' or underwriters interested, and to the satisfaction
of shipper, who will assume all responsibility for same, and for the various
appliances for ventilation after-shipment of cattle.
The steamer undertakes to supply sufficient good condensed or fresh water
for the use of the animals during the voyage; also, water casks and hose.
Steamer to provide space, free of charge, for corn and strictly compressed fodder'for animals, but freight, if demanded, shall be payable on
any unusual excess of fodder landed at port of destination. If fodder be
supplied that is not strictly compressed, a proportionate quantity may be
carried on deck.
Steamer to supply suitable gangways and elevators for loading cattle.
Steamer to give free passage, over and back, and to supply bedding to
drovers in charge of animals, (not exceeding one man to every thirty cattle,)
and if not returning direct to port of sailing, to provide free intermediate
passage back for foreman, and free steerage passage back for other attendants, by first available steamer of this line.
Steamer to give six running days' notice of her intended departure, and
twelve hours' notice of the hour the'cattle must be delivered to her, but
such notices to be given or received are subject to become inoperative in
case of strike or stoppage of labor
Steamer guarantees to sail as soon after shipment of all the animals as
tide and weather permit, or pay expenses of keep of animals at the rate of
50c. per head per day in full.
Steamer has privilege of exceeding her net register tonnage in grain,
upon payment to shippers the extra premium charged by the underwriters
with whom the animals are insured.
, Shippers to deliver the cattle to the vessel between sunrise and sunset,
at the dock or in the stream, at their option.
Shippers guarantee to deliver animals by expiry of notice, provided
vessel is ready for them, or. to pay for detention of steamer at the rate of
£50 per day.
In case of non-arrival of vessel in time to sail from New York on or
before November 4, 1891, shipper has option of cancellation.
The line form of live stock bill of lading to be used for cattle shipped
under this contract, and its conditions to govern any questions not provided
herein, subject to U. S. Government inspection.
Any dispute arising under this contract to be settled by arbitration in
the usual way.
Dated New York, October 10th, 1891.
H.

MArTLAND KERSEY.

Wk. W. BlRuER & Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

.I Further answering the said libel, the respondent avers
that by the terms and conditions of the contract and bill of
lading, under which the said cattle were received for transportation and delivery, it was provided that the carrier should
not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by causes beyond
his control, by the perils of the seas or other waters, or by
other accidents of navigation, even when occasioned by the
negligence, default, or error in judgment of the master, mariners or other servants of the shipowner, and that the cattle
were carried on deck at the owner's risk, and under a special
provision tlhat the steamer should not be held accountable for
accident to ok mortality of the animals from whatsoever cause
arising. There was a further provision that the contract
should be construed and governed by the law as administered
in the courts of Great Britain, with reference to which law
the contract was stated to be and was made.
"And the respondent avers that the loss of said cattle was
due to the perils of the sea encountered upon the said voyage,
which broke certain of the cattle-houses and set the cattle
adrift, and that during the continuance of the perils, and by
reason thereof, certain of the cattle were washed oveiboard,
and others were thr~wn about the deck, bruised and with
broken limbs, .and reduced to a dead, dying or hopeless condition, and that upon such being taken to the gangways, they
were washed over by the seas."
"1And the respondent avers that the care given to said
cattle was according to the best judgment of the master of
said steamer, and that, if he erred in his judgment or was
in any degree negligent, which the respondent denies, still
this respondent is absolved from accountability and responsibility by reason of the terms of the bill of lading; and also
that, by the law as administered in the courts of Great Britaihi, the respondent, being itself without fault, is validly, under
the terms of the said contract and bill of lading, absolved
from all responsibility for any negligent or improper act or
conduct on the part of the master, mariners or other servants
of the respondent."
It was stipulated by counsgel "that the English judicial

COMNPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Statement of the Case.

decisions, as contained in the printed decisions of the law or
admiralty courts, may be referred to by either party as evidence of the English common or maritime law as administered
in the English courts."
The conclusions of fact of the District Judge were summed
up in his opinion as follows:*
"During three days from October 30 to November 1, inclusive, the vessel met heavy weather, during which there was
heavy rolling of the vessel. The cattle were in pens on deck;
a few forward under and near the turtle-back, which were
saved; the rest were in the vicinity of Nos. 3 and 4 hatches,
forward and aft of the engine room, in pens built in the wings
on the port and starboard sides of the ship, all of which were
lost. The storm was heaviest on the afternoon and night of
Saturday the 31st, the wind and seas coming first and heaviest
from the northwest, but on Saturday hauling to the northward and to east -northeast, with cross seas. Some slight
damage was done to a few pens on the 30th; more were
broken. on Saturday the .31st, but these were repaired and
the cattle put in place toward nightfall About 5 o'clock on
that day the after gangways were opened on each side, and
about ten or twelve cattle that had become maimed and
helpless were sent ovierboard through those gangways. The
chief loss was during that night and the following morning, when, shortly after daylight, the captain gave orders
to open the forward gangways also, and the *hole deck
was cleared of all the cattle save the thirty-nine under the
turtle-back."
"Upon the whole testimony in this pitiful case, I am not
disposed to pronounce any unfavorable judgment upon the
handling of the ship by the master. His record as a master
appears to have been good, and on any doubtful question of
navigation he is entitled to the. benefit of his record. 'He had
some, though not large, experience in the transportation of
cattle; and the experts called by each party place so much
stress upon the special circumstances of the situation, the
quality of the ship, and the necessary determination of the
master's own judgment at the time, that in the circumstances

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

testified to I do not find any conclusive proof adverse to the
master's judgment as to the navigation of the ship.
"The evidence leaves not the least doubt in my mind, how.ever, that the sacrifice of a considerable number of live cattle
that were not maimed or substantially hurt was made on the
morning of Sunday, the 1st of November, not from any pressing necessity, but solely from mere apprehension; and I am
further persuaded that there was no reasonable or apparenf
necessity for the sacrifice. It was morning. The night was
past. No one testifies to any pressing peril to the ship. The
log does not hint of it. No reason appears why such cattle
as could go about, and were actually going about, should
not have been cared for and preserved. There was plainly
no effort made to separate the sound from the maimed. Even
the master says, in answer .to the question, 'Were these
cattle standing up that went overboard? Ans. They were
down. Some may, have been up'; I don't know.' His object
plainly was to clear the deck of all the cattle from No. 3 aft,
with no attempt to discriminate or save any. His state of
mind is shown by his concluding words: 'We all breathed
happily when we saw it open' (No. 3 hatch)."
The District Judge Was of opinion that the stipulations of
the bill of lading, so far as they undertook to exempt the
respondent from accountability for -the negligence of the
master or crew, though valid by the law of England, were invalid by our law; and therefore decreed "that the libellants
recover damages for such of the oxen as were of any-market
value and not fatally wounded or maimed at the time when the
houses and cleats provided for them were designedly torn up,
and which oxen were cast overboard or negligently suffered to
go overboard through the open gangways on the morning of
November 1st, and on the evening of the night previous;"
and referred the case to -acommissioner to ascertain and report
the amount of such damage. 57 Fed. Rep. 403.
The commissioner reported that sixty-three of the cattle
were thus voluntarily-and unnecessarily sacrificed, and assessed damages for that number of cattle. The District Court
confirmed his report, and entered a decree accordingly for the
libellants. .61 Fed. Rep. 860.

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Argument for Compania la Flecha.

Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which adopted the conclusions of fact of the District Court,
and .affirmed the decree upon the ground that the case was
not within the exceptions in the bill of- lading. 35 U. S.
App. 44.
The respondent applied for and obtained a writ of certiorari
from this court.
ffr. Wilelmu8 .ynderme
Flecha.

for Compania de Navigacion la

The actioh is prosecuted in the courts of the United States
in attempted evasion of the agreement "that the contract
shall be governed by British law."
The libellants, attracted apparently -by the decision in the
case of the Branoford City, 29 Fed. Rep. 373, have sought to
build a similar case against the respondent, and have come
far out of their way to bring suit in the same jurisdiction.
Liverpool was the port of destination. It was there that the
Insurance Company, the principal libellant herein, and the
only libellant that profits by the decree, had its principal
offices, and it was there that the claim should have been presented and pressed, if presented and pressed at all. Apparently no claim was presented there. But six months later
the Insurance Company came to New York and instituted
this suit.
The libellants did not make proper provision for the cattle.
The storm encountered by the Hugo was one of notable
severity, and the losses of the cattle were due to the perils
incident to the storm. The steamer itself was intelligently
and prudently managed and navigated during the time of it,
and the courts below were in error as to the facts.
The bill of lading provides that "this contract shall be
governed by the British law," with reference to which law
the contract was made.
In Liverpool Steamship Co. v. PheniX Ins. Co., 129 LT. S.
397, this court said (page 458): "The review of the principal
cases demonstrates that according to the great preponderance,

OCTOBER TERM,

-189.7.

Argument for Compania la Flecha.

if not the uniform concurrence, of authority, the general rule
that the nature, the obligation and the interpretation of a
contract are to be governed by the law of the place where it
is made, unless the parties at the time of making it have
some other law in view, requires a contract of affreightment
made in one country between citizens or residents thereof,
and the performance of which begins there, to be governed
by the law of that country, unless the parties, when entering
into the contract, clearly manifest a mutual intention that it
shall be governed by the law of some other country."
The court held in that case that there was nothing to indicate that the contracting parties looked to any other law
thkaL the law of the United States.
In the case under consideration, however, it is apparent
that the parties did look to the law of England; that they
deliberately chose it; that it was not an exaction from a
shipper by a,carrier, but that it was in accord with a preliminary contract, freely made and unobjected to. The cattle
were destined to an English -port. It was fitting that reference should be made to the law of that port. Any differences between shippers and shipowners would naturally be
submitted to the law of the place where their relations terminated. Moreover, the Reliance Marine Insurance Company, -which represents the entire interest of the libellants, is
a British corporation having its principal office in Liverpool,
the.port of the Hugo's destination.
The validity of the provisions of the bill of lading should
be determined by the standard of what is just and.reasonable
in the eye of the law. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357, 380, 382. It is just and reasonable to apply the British
law, the law of the port of destination.
The District Judge declined to enforce the English law,
upon the ground that the stipulation in the bill of lading providing for the application of the British law was invalid as
against the public policy of the United States. A similar
provision has, however, been sustained in the District Court
of Maryland. The Oranmore, 24 Fed. Rep. 922, 927. The
United States Circuit Court of Appeals avoided any discus-

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Argument for Compania la Flecha.

sion of the application of the British law, disregarding certain
of the exemption clauses, and holding in respect to others
that the facts did not render the question of applying the
British law material.
The provision in the bill of lading that the contract be
governed by British law is not invalid.
It cannot be fairly said that there is a question in the case
whether or not it is against the public policy of this country
to permit a carrier by sea to exempt himself from the consequences of hi servants' negligence or error. The real question is whether it is against the public policy of this country
to permit shipowner and shipper to agree in New York that
their contract for a shipment of cattle from New York to England shall be construed according to the place where the final
performance of the contract takes place and where, if anywhere, differences as to the performance by the carrier of his
engagements would naturally arise.
It is especially proper that where a contract relates to
transportation on the high seas from one nation to another,
the entire transaction not being under the jurisdiction of any
one nation, the parties shall declare in their contract the jurisdiction by the laws of which they intend their contract to be
governed.
With such declaration made, it is against public policy and
against commercial integrity to permit either party, and especially the party with whom the right to select the forum rests,
to insist that the law of the forum, and not the law stipulated
in the contract, should be applied to the construction of the
contract.
It has been said by this court that it is against public
policy to permit a carrier to exempt himself from the consequences of the negligence of his servants. Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 378. The rule has been extended
from the strict obligations resting upon a carrier by- land,
to cover those of a carrier by sea. Liverpool Steam Co. v.
Phenix Ins. Go., 129 U. S. 397.
At the time this latter decision was made there was no
legislative distinction between the obligations and rights of a
VOL. CLXVI--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Compauia la Flecha.

carrier by sea and of a carrier by land. Nor, indeed, was
there any such distinction at the time these cattle were
shipped upon the Hugo. But Congress, -with whom certainly
rests the right to declare the public policy of a country, have
ince that date passed an act, known as the Harter Act, which
rovides in terms that--"If the owner of any vessel transorting-xnerchandise or property to or from any port in the
United States of America, shall exercise due diligence to
make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly
manned, equipped and supplied, neither the vessel, her owner
or owners, agent or charterers, shall become or be held responsible for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors
of navigation, or in the management of said vessel, nor shall
the vessel, her owner or owners, charterers, agent or master
be held-liable for losses arising from dangers of the sea or
other navigable waters," etc. Act of February 13, 1893, c. 105,
27 Stat. 445.
If this loss had occurred subsequent to July 1, 1893, there
would have been no recovery for the libellants under the laws
of the United States.
Prior to July 1, 1893, there could be no recovery for the
libellants according to the laws of Great Britain, and to those
laws they should be remitted.
But if this court will not reexamine the facts, and accepts the facts as found by a majority of the Judges of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, still no liability rests upon the shipowner for the loss of libellants' cattle under the contract of
shipment, such contract being governed by the law of Great
Britain.
It was recited in the bill of lading that the cattle wereshipped "on deck at owner's risk." That such a provision
should be made respecting a shipment of live animals to be
transported on the deck of a freight steamer across the
Atlantic, at a tempestuous season of the year, was eminently
proper, and due allowance for the risks assumed by the
owner of the cattle was undoubtedly made in the rate of
freight at which the cattle were accepted for carriage.
In the case of Burton v. English, 12 Q. B. D. 218, a similar

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Argument for Compania la Flecha.

clause, "The steamer shall be provided with, a deck cargo,
if required at full freight, but at merchant's risk," was
considered by the Judges of the Court of Appeal, who substantially held that it relieved the shipowner from all responsibility for the acts of his servants, except responsibility to
contribute in general average in case of lawful jettison or
other lawful sacrifice.
Brett, . R., said : "It is obvious that this is a stipulation in
favor of the shipowners, for, in order to earn a larger freight,
they may require part of the cargo to be deck cargo and then
it is to be at the merchant's risk. My brother Cave, who
delivered tlie judgment of the Divisional Court, held that
this stipulation absolved the shipowners from liability to
contribute to general average. It must be admitted that if
there were an imyroperjettionby the master and crew, this
stipulation would relieve the shipowners from liability.
.

.

.

If the liability is in consequence of any act of any

of his servants for which the shipowner would be liable but
for this stipulation, then it follows that the defendants are
freed from liability. I should say that this stipulation would
cover any act of the master or crew, Which being done by
them as servants of the shipowner would otherwise make
him liable; it therefore covers the case of improper jettison,
also a loss caused by a collision or stranding owing to the
negligence of the master or crew."
Bowen, L. J., said, respecting the clause: "iNow, that
clearly is a stipulation in favor of the shipowners, and 2rina
facie it seems to me meant to relieve them from the responsibility of some act of their servants by which they would
otherwise be bound, and from the incidents of some risk
which otherwise would fall upon them as carriers and under
their coxtract of carriage. It would, I think, clearly cover
improper jettison, also it would cover negligence of the captain or crew, occasioning stranding or collision, and any other
acts, if any there be, of the servants of the shipowners for
which they would otherwise be responsible."
Baggallay, L. J., concurred in the view of Justices Brett
and Bowen.

See, also, Lewis v. Great WVestern Railway, L. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for Compania la Flecha.

3 Q. B. D. 195; .IoCauley v. Furnew Railway, L. R. 8
Q. B. 57.
If the immediate cause of loss is to be deemed an accident
of navigation,'the shipowner is freed from liability, even
though such accident was remotely due to the negligence,
default or error in judgment of the pilot, master or mariners
of the ship. Carver's Carriage by Sea, 2d ed. § 101, p. 110 ;
The _Duero, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 393 (1869); Grill v. General
Iron Screw Colliery Co., L. R. 1. C. P. 600 (1866); The Cre8ington, (1891,) Prob. 152.
Finally, it is'a matter of peculiar interest that this court
should declare the effect of a clause which provides that the
bill of lading should be governed by a law other than the law
of the place of issue.
. The question has arisen in numerous cases, but there is as
yet no authoritative decision in any appellate tribunal.
The clause has been sustained as valid in the District Court
of the - United States for the District of Maryland. The
Oranmore, 24 Fed. Rep. 922. It has been rejected as invalid
in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
Distriqt of 1ew York, and in the District Court of the United
States' for the District of Massachusetts.
The Branford
City, 29 Fed. Rep. 373, 396; The Guildhall, 58 Fed. Rep.
796 ; The Iowa, 50 Fed. Rep. 561.
No appellate tribunal has passed upon the validity of the
clause, and no certainty can be felt by the enormous commercial and shipping interests using bills of lading until the question has been adjudicated in this court.
There is not involved any question as to abandoning the
declarations of public policy already made by this court respecting the exemption of a carrier from the consequences of
his servants' negligence.
There is riot involved even the question of a modification of
such declarations, because of the provisions of the Hlarter Act.
There is not involved any question of introducing the law
of a foreign country for the construction of the terms of contracts made and performed here.
The question is, whether a shipper and a shipowner may in

COMPAfNA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Opinion of the Court.

contracting here for the transportation of cargo from this
country to a foreign country, validly stipulate that any disputes or differences under the contract shall be determined
by the law of the country where the shipment is to be
delivered.
We submit that it is "reasonable and just in the eye of the
law" for the parties to agree to submit their rights to the law
of the place where their relations will naturally terminate. If
the court holds that such a stipulation iq "reasonable and just
in the eye of the law," then the contract must be sustained,
even though such foreign law does differ from the law of the
United Stat~s. Railroad Co. v. lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 380,
384.
.Mr. 1. W. MacFarlandfor Brauer and others.
MR. JUsTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The contract sued on was made in October, 1891, more
than a year before the passage of the Harter Act, and the
case is unaffected by its provisions. Act of February 13, 1893,
c. 105; 27 Stat. 445.
By the law of this country, before that act, as declared upon
much consideration by this court, common carriers, by land or
sea, could not, by any form of contract with the owner of
property carried, exempt themselves from responsibility for
loss or damage arising from negligence of their own servants;
and any stipulation for such exemption was contrary to public
policy and void. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357;
Livepool Steam C6. v. Phenix IMs. Co., 129 U. S. 397.
By the modern decisions in England, on the other hand,
made since it has become to us a foreign country, common
carriers, except s6 far as controlled by the provisions of the
Railway and Canal Traffic Act of 1854, were permitted to
exempt themselves by express contract for responsibility for
losses occasioned by negligence of their servants. Peck v.
N7Aorth Staffordshire Railway, 10 H. L. Cas. 473, 493, 494:;

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Steel v. State Line Steamship Co., 3 App. Cas. 72; Manchester
&c. Railway v. Brown, 8 App. Cas. 703; In re -Missouri
Steamship Co., 42 Oh. D. 321; The Cressington, (1891) Prob.
152.
In the case at bar, the decision of the District Judge proceeded upon the ground that any stipulation directly exempting the carrier from all liability for negligence of his servants
being void by our law as against public policy, the equivalent
stipulation that the contract should be governed by the law of
England was equally void, and could not be enforced in the
courts of the United States. That decision is in accordance
with the previous decision of the same judge in The Braniford
City, 29 Fed. Rep. 373, and with several subsequent decisions
of his. The Energia, 56 Fed. Rep. 124:; The Guildhall, 58
Fed. Rep. 796; Botany .ills v. lnott, 76 Fed. Rep. 582.
The like view has been taken by Judge Nelson in the District
of Massachusetts in The Iowa, 50 Fed. Rep. 561; by Judge
Benedict in the.Eastern District of New York in .Iewisohnv.
ational Steamship Co., 56 Fed. Rep. 602; and by Judge
Butler in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in The Glenmavis, 69 Fed. Rep. 472. See also Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103
U. S.261; Hamlyn v. Talisker -Distillery,(1894:) App. Gas.
202, 209, 214; Rousillon v. Rousillon, 14 Ch.Div. 351, 369.
But it is unnecessary to express a decisive opinion upon the
validity of the contract, because, assuming it to be valid and,
to govern the case, this court concurs with the Circuit Court
of Appeals in the opinion that the respondent was liable for
the loss in question.
Exceptions in a bill of lading or charter party, inserted by
the shipowner for his own benefit, -are unquestionably to be
construed most strongly against him. The Caledonia, 157
13. S.124, 137; The .Majestic, 166 U. S.375, 386; Norman v.
Binnington, 25 Q. B. D. 475, 477; Baerselman v. Bailey,
(1895) 2 Q. B. 301, 305.
By the laws of both countries, the ordinary contract of a
common carrier by sea involves an obligation on his part to
use due care and skill in navigating the vessel and in carrying the goods; and an exception, in the bill of lading, of perils

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the sea, or other specified perils, does not excuse him from
that obligation, nor exempt him from liability for loss or damage from one of those perils, to which the negligence of himself or his servants has contributed.
This rule of construction was fully established in this court
before it had occasion to decide the question whether it was
within the power of the carrier by express stipulation to exempt himself from all responsibility for the negligence of
himself or his servants.
In the leading case of New Jersey Steam _Navigation Co. v.
Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, a crate of William F. Harnden,
in which was money belonging to the bank, was shipped upon
a steamboat of the navigation company under an agreement
stipulating that "the said crate, with its contents, is to be at
all times exclusively at the risk of the said William F. Harnden, and the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company will
not, in any event, be responsible, either to him or his employers, for the loss of any goods, wares, merchandise, money,
notes, bills, evidences of debt, or property of any and every
description, to be conveyed or transported by him in said
crate, or otherwise, in any manner in the boats of the said
company." This court held that the navigation company was
not thereby exonerated from loss by fire arising from the
negligence of that company or its servants; and the reasons
for the decision were stated by Mr. Justice Nelson as follows:
"The special agreement, in this case, under which the goods
were shipped, provided that they should be conveyed at the
risk of Harnden; and that the respondents were not to be
accountable to him or to his employers, in any event, for loss
or damage. The language is general and broad, and might
very'well comprehend every description of risks incident to
the shipment. But we think it would be going farther than
the intent of the parties, upon any fair and reasonable construction of the agreement, were we to regard it as stipulating
for wilful misconduct, gross negligence, or want of ordinary
care, either in the seaworthiness of the vessel, her proper
equipments and furniture, or in her management by the master and hands." "If it is competent at all for the carrier to

OCTOBER TERM\, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

stipulate for the gross negligence of himself, and his servants
or agents, in the transportation of the goods, it should be
required to be done, at least, in terms that would leave no
doubt as to the meaning of the parties." 6 How. 383, 384.
See also The Hornet, 17 How. 100.; Transportation Co. v.
Downer, 11 Wall. 129; The Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167; Liver.pool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 _U. S. 397, 438.
In England, likewise, it has long been recognized as a settled
rule that under a contract to carry goods, containing an exception such as of "breakage or leakage," or of "barratry of
the master or mariners," or of "perils of the sea," there still
rests upon the carrier, not merely the duty to carry the goods
if not prevented by the excepted perils, but also the obligation
that he and his servants shall use due care and skill and shall
not be negligent in carrying the goods. Phillips v. Clare, 2
0. B. (N. S.) 156; The Helene, L. R. 1 P. 0. 231; Lloyd v.
The General Iron Screw Colliery Co., 3 H. & 0. 284; Grill v.
Same, L. R. 1 0. 1. 600, and L. I. 3 0. P. 476; Czech v. General Steam Hfavigation Co., L. R. 3 0. P. 14; Steel v. State
Line Steamship Co., 3 App. Cas. 72, 87, 883 Manchester &c.
1?ailway v. Brown, 8 App. Cas. 703, 709, 710; The Xantho,
12 App. Cas. 503, 510, 515.
The English case most resembling in its circumstances the
case at bar is Leuw v. Dudgeon, briefly reported in L. R. 3
C. P. 17 note, and more fully in 17 Law Times, (N. S.) 145,
by which it appears to have been as follows: Cattle were
shipped, some of them on deck, under a bill of lading containing these clauses: "Ship free in case of mortality, and from all
damage arising from the act of God, the Queen's enemies, fire,
accidents from machinery, or boilers, steam, or other dangers
of the seas, rivers, roadsteads o' steam navigation whatsoever." "The ship not liable for accident, injury, mortality,
or jettison, whether shipped on deck or in the hold." On the
vessel putting out to sea, she experienced fine weather and
the sea was smooth, but there was a ground swell, and after
she had been out some time she suddenly rolled over on her
beam ends; the cattle pens gave way, and the cattle fell over
to the starboard side, and in order to save the vessel it was

COPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary to throw those on deck overboard. It was held
that if the accident was owing to the vessel putting to, sea
with insufficient ballast, the owners were liable, notwithstanding the exemptions in the bill of lading, which included "jettison" as well as "accidents from dangers of the seas."
In that case, indeed, (as in the case in this court of The
Caledonia, above cited,) the fault of the shipowner consisted
in sending the ship to sea in an unseaworthy condition. But
Mr. Justice Willes, who delivered the leading opinion, laid
down the general rule that "the exceptions were intended to
save the shipowner from liability for the effects of accident,
and not to absolve him from the duty of exercising reasonable
diligence." 17 Law Times, (N. S. ) 146. And he treated the
case as coming within the principle of that rule as affirmed in
the cases, above cited, of Phillips v. Clark and Grill v. Gen-

eral on
r Screw Colliery Co., in the one of which the clause
"not to be accountable for leakage or breakage," and in the
other the clause "accidents or dangers of the seas, rivers or
navigation, of whatever nature or kind soever, excepted," was
held not to cover a loss, otherwise within the exception,
caused by the negligence of the master or crew. So in Steel
v. State Line Steamship Co., above cited, Lord Blackburn said,
in the House of Lords, that in construing such exceptions in a
bill of lading exactly the same considerations would arise as
to the duty of- the shipowner to furbish a ship really fit for
the purpose, as had been applied, in the series of cases of
which Phillips v. Olark was the leading one, to the duty of
himself and his servants to use due care and skill in carrying
the goods.
In Hotara v. Henderson, L. IR. 7 Q. B. 225, 236, the Court
of Exchequer Chamber, in a considered judgment delivered
by Mr. Justice Willes, held that the words "loss or damage
arising from collision or other accidents of navigation occasioned by default of the master or crew, or any other accidents of the seas, rivers and steam navigation; of whatever
nature or kind, excepted," did not exempt the owner from
negligence in omitting to take out and dry the cargo at a port
of distress, because the authorities (specially mentioning Grill

OCTOBER TERM. 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

v. General Iron Screw Colliery Co., above cited,) "and the
reasoning upon which ther are founded are conclusive to
show that the exemption is from liability for loss which could
not have been avoided by reasonable care, skill and diligence,
and that it is inapplicable to the case of a loss arising from
the want of such care and the sacrifice of the cargo by reason
thereof."
In Gill v. -Manchester &c. Railway, L. R. 8 Q. B. 186, the
Court of Queen's Bench, applying the same rule of construction, held that a provision in a contract for the carriage of
cattle by railway, by which the railway company was not
to be responsible for any loss or injury to the cattle "in the
receiving, forwarding or delivering, if such damage be occasioned by the kicking, plunging or restiveness of the animal,"
did not relieve the company from liability for negligence of
its servants in delivering a restive cow.
In loyd v. General Iron Screw Colliery Co., above bited,
Lord Bramwell said that the words "ac~ident or damage from
machinery, boilers, steam," could not apply to an explosion
caused by the wilful act of the engineer. 3 H. & 0. 292.
The passages quoted by the respondent from Burton v.
English, 12 Q. B. D. 218, 220, 223, as showing that the words
"on deck at owner's risk" exempt the carrier from liability
for unlawful jettison or for negligence of the 'master and
crew, were obiter dicta, the only point decided being that
those words did not exclude the right of the owner of the
goods to recover in general average for a lawful jettison. See
]?alli *. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 396. The two other cases
cited by the respondent were cases in which railway companies were held not to be responsible for the negligence of their
servants under contracts essentially different from that now
in question. One was an action by a passenger travelling as
a drover accompanying cattle under a free pass, one of the
terms of which was that he should travel at his own risk.
XhcCauley v. Furness Railway, L. R. 8 Q. B. 57. The other
was an action by a person who, knowing that the defendant
had two rates of carriage, a higher rate when it took the
ordinary liability of a carrier, and a lower rate when it was

COMPANIA LA FLECHA v. BRAUER.
Opinion of the Court.

relieved from all liability except that arising from the wilful
misconduct of its servants, delivered goods to be carried at
the lower rate under a contract in which the only words
defining the carrier's liability were "owner's risk." Lewiw
v. Great We8tern Railway, 3 Q. B. D. 195.
Upon consideration of the conflicting testimony, with the
aid of the careful arguments of counsel, no ground is shown
for reversing or modifying the conclusions of fact reached by
both courts below. Their concurrent decisions upon a question of fact are to be followed, unless clearly shown to be
erroneous. Mlorewood v. Enequist, 23 How. 491; The Richmond, 103 U. S. 540, and cases.cited; The Conqueror, 166
U. S. 110, 136.
By the facts so found, it appears that the cattle, for the
loss of which a recovery has been permitted, were sound and
uninjured animals, forcibly thrown or driven overboard, in
rough weather, by order of the master, from unfounded apprehension on his part, in the absence of any pressing peril to
the ship, and with no apparent or reasonable necessity for a
jettison of the sound cattle, and no attempt to separate them
from those which had already been injured by perils of the
sea.
The clauses of the bill of lading, (other than the reference
to British law,) on which the respondent relies, are those in
the first paragraph, "on deck at owner's risk; steamer not
to be held accountable for accident to, or mortality of the
animals, from whatever cause arising;" and those in the
third paragraph, by which "it is also mutually agreed that
the carrier shall not be liable for loss or damage occasioned
by causes beyond his control, by the perils of the sea, or other
waters;" "by barratry of the master or crew;" or "by collisions, stranding, or other accidents of navigation, of whatsoever kind, even when occasioned by the negligence, default,
or error in judgment of the pilot, master, mariners or other
servants of the shipowner."
The bill of lading itself shows that all the cattle to be carried under this contract were to be on deck. The words "on
deck at owner's risk" cannot have been intended by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

parties to cover risks from all causes .whatsoever, including
negligent or wilful acts of the master and crew. To give so
broad an interpretation to words of exception, inserted by the
carrier and for his benefit, would be contrary to settled rules
of construction, and would render nugatory many of the subsequent stipulations of the bill of lading.
The wrongful jettison of the sound cattle by the act of the
carrier's servants cannot reasonably, or consistently with the
line of English authorities already cited, or with our own decisions, be considered either as an "accident to, or mortality of
the animals," or as a "loss or damage occasioned by causes
beyond his control, by the perils of the sea, or other waters,"
or yet as a loss or damage "by collisions, stranding, or other
accidents of navigation." There having been no collision,
stranding, or other accident of navigation, there was nothing
to which the only stipulation in the bill of lading against the
consequences of negligence, default, or error in judgment of
the master'and crew, could apply.
There was no barratry, because there was neither intentional fraud or breach of trust, nor wilful violation of law, one
of which, at least, is necessary to constitute barratry. Patapsco ins. Co. v. Coulter, 3 Pet. 222; Lawton v. Sun Ins. Co.,
2 Cush. 500; Grill v. General Iron Screw Colliery Co., above
cited.
The facts of the case, therefore, do not bring it within any
of the exceptions of the bill of lading, assuming them to be
valid.
-Decreeafflrmed.

CRAEMER v. WASHINGTON STATE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 466. Submitted October 12, 1897. -Decided

October 25, 1897.

In the case of a petition for habeas corpus for relief from a detention under
process alleged to be illegal, by reason of the invalidity of the process
or proceedings under .which the petitioner is held in custody, copies of

