OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

and filed with the commissioner of the general land office.
And in view of that fact, and as no question had been made
in the land department of the correctness of the survey, it was
adjudged that the equitable title of the State to the land was
perfect. Sol in this case, if there had been no challenge of
the original surveys, no attempt at a resurvey or to correct
errors or mistakes, and there had been simply a lack of the
formal approval of the list by the Secretary of the Interior,
that case would have compelled an adjudication that the full
equitable title -had passed to the State of Michigan, and would
have invalidated the patent subsequently issued by the United
States directly to the parties under whom the defendants
claim. But that is far from deciding that all power in the
land department to inquire into frauds or errors in the surveys
was taken away and all -frauds upon the Government in such
surveys condoned. It was merely a decision that as the identification by the surveyor general of the land as swamp land
had not been challenged for fraud or mistake, it was binding
on the question of title, and the approval by the Secretary of
the Interior and the issue of the patent were simply ministerial
acts. See also Blanc v. -Lafayette, 11 How. 104.
We see no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
Affwve.
and it is, therefore,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY .
-MUSSER-SAUNTRY LAND, LOGGING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

T1E CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 12L Argued November 80, December 1, 189T. -Decided

December 20,1897.

The withdrawal from sale by the Land Department in March, 1866, of lands
within the indemnity limits of the grants of June 3, 1856, and May 5,
1864, to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of a railroad,
exempted such lands from the operation of the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by the act of July*2, 1864; though it may be

NO.PAC. RAILROAD v. MUSSER-SAUNTRY

CO.

605

Statement of the Case.
that a different rule would obtain if the grant to the State had been of a
later date than that to the Northern Pacific Company.
As to place lands, it is settled that, in case of conflict, the title depends on
the dates of the grants, and not on the times of the filing of the maps of
definite location.
It is not intended hereby to question the rule that the title to indemnity
lands dates from selection, and not from the grant: but all here decided
is, that when a withdrawal of lands within indemnity limits is made in
aid of an earlier land grant, and made prior to the filing of the map of
definite location by a company having a later grant -the latter having
such words of exception and limitation as are found in the grant to the
plaintiff- it operates to except the withdrawn lauds from the scope of
such later grant.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On June 3, 1866, c. 43,
11 Stat. 20, Congress made a grant to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of a'railroad of every alternate
section of land designated by odd numbers, for six sections in
width, on each side of the line, with the right to select indemnity within fifteen-mile limits. The line of this road was
definitely fixed September 20, 1858. This grant was enlarged
by the act of May 5, 1864, c. 80, 13 Stat. 66, to one of ten
alternate sections on each side per mile with indemnity limits
extended to twenty miles from the line of the road. The
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company,
one of the defendants herein, became the beneficiary of this
grant. The road was afterwards constructe d, and the lands
in controversy are more than fifteen but less than twenty miles
from the line of definite location and construction. In March,
1866, the lands within the indemnity limits named in the act
of 1864 were by the Secretary of the Interior withdrawn from
sale and notice thereof given to the local land officers. This
withdrawal remained unrescinded and unaltered until 1889.
In 1883 the defendant railway company selected the lands in
controversy in lieu of lands lost in its place limits. These
selections were approved by the local land officers and transmitted to the commissioner of the general land office for
his approval. In the same year the State of Wisconsin issued
patents for the lands to that company, which thereafter sold
and conveyed them to the grantor of its co-defendant, the
land, logging and manufacturing company. On a readjust-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

ment of the land grant the railway company's title failed, and
thereafter the grantee of the railway company purchased
them, pursuant to the act of March 3, 1887, c. 376, 24: Stat. 556.

On the other hand, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
plaintiff and appellant, on July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365,
367, received a grant from Congress. The third section of
the act making this grant contains this description of the
lands granted:
"Every alternate section of public land . . . to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of
said railroad line, as said dompany may adopt, through the
Territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of
land per mile, on each side of said railroad whenever it passes
through any State, and whenever on the line thereof, the
United States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted or
otherwise appropriated,- and free from predmption, or other
claims or rights, at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the offi6e of the commissioner
of the general land office; and whenever, prior to said time,
any of said sections or parts of sections shall -have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected
by said company in lieu thereof."
On July 30, 1870, plaintiff fixed the general route of its
road and:filed plats thereof with the Secretary of the Interior.
On August 13, 1870, a withdrawal of the lands within twenty
miles of this route was ordered in aid of the grant. On July
6, 1882, plaintiff definitely fixed that portion of its line opposite these lands. They are within the limits of the abovementioned withdrawal, and also within the place limits of
plaintiff's grant, as those limits were adjusted and fixed according to the map of definite loqation. Relying upon the title
acquired by this grant, and the proceedings had thereunder, as
above described, the plaintiff filed its bill on May 3, 1893, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of' Wisconsin, to restrain the issue of patents to the
manufacturing company, and to quiet its own title. A demurrer to this bill was, in May, 1894, sustained, and a decree

NO. PAC. RAILROAD v. MUSSER-SAUNTRY CO.

607

Opinion of the Court.

entered dismissing the bill. On appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit this decree was affirmed, 34: U. S.
App. 66, and thereupon the plaintiff brought the case to this
court for review.
.A r. C. TV. Bunn for appellants.
Mr. Thomas Wilson for appellees.
M . JUsTicE BREwE.R, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
But a single question is presented in this case, and that is
whether the withdrawal from sale by the Land Department
in March, 1866, of lands within the indemnity limits of the
grant of 1856 and 1864 exempted such lands from the operation of the grant to the plaintiff. It will be perceived that
the grant in aid of the defendant railway company was prior
in date to that to the plaintiff, and that before the time
of the filing of plaintiff's maps of general route and definite
location the lands were withdrawn for the benefit of the defendant. The grant to the plaintiff was only of lands to
which the United States had "full title, not reserved, sold,
granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption,
or other claims or rights, at the time the line of said road is
definitely fixed."
The withdrawal by the Secretary in aid of the grant to the
State of Wisconsin was valid, and operated to withdraw the
odd-numbered sections within its limits from disposal by
the land officers of the Goveriiment under the general land
laws. The act of the Secretary was in effect a reservation.
Wolcott v. Des Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681; Wolsey v. Chapman,
101 U. S. 755, and cases cited in the opinion; -Hamblin v.
Western Land Company, 14:7 U. S. 531, and cases cited in the'
opinion. It has also been held that such a withdrawal is
effective against claims arising under subsequent railroad land
grants. Rt. Paul & Pacific Railroad v. Northern Pacific
Railroad,139 U. S. 1, 11, 18; Wisconsin Central Railroad v.
-Forsythe,159 U. S. 46, 54:; Spencer v. McDougal,159 U. S. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

While it is true that the int.ent of Congress in respect to a
land grant is -to be determined by a consideration of all the
provisions of the statute, and that the word "reserved" may
not always be held to include lands withdrawn for the purpose
of supplying possible deficiencies in some prior land grant, yet,
as that is the ordinary scope of the word, if any narrower or
different meaning is to be attributed to it in this grant the
reasons therefor must be clear. The use of a word which has
generally received a certain construction raises a presumption
that Congress used it in this grant with that meaning, and it
devolves on the one claiming any other construction to show
sufficient reasons for ascribing to Congress an intent-to use it
in such sense. It is said that the phraseology of the various
Congressional grants is different, and therefore each one must
be considered by itself. This, in a general way, may be admitted, but at the same time the frequent use of a certain
word in a particular sense is, to say the least, very persuasive
that it was used in a like sense in this grant.
But beyond the significance of the word "reserved," alone,
there are other words in the act-which, taken in connection
with it, make it clear that these lands do not fall within the
grant. "Otherwise -appropriated" is one term of description,
and evidently when. the withdrawal "was made in 1866 it was
an appropriation of these lands so far as might be necessary
for satisfying that particular grant. It is true it was not a
final appropriation or an absolute passage of title to the State
or the railway. company, for that was contingent upon things
thereafter to happen; first, the construction of the road, and,
second, the necessity of resorting to those lands for supplying
deficiencies in the lands in place; still it was an appropriation
for the purpose of supplying any such deficiencies. Again., in
the description, are the words "free from preemption or
other claims or rights."
Certainly, after this withdrawal,
the Wisconsin Company had the right, if its necessities required by reasofi of a failure of lands in place, to come into
the indemnity limits and select these lands. Can it be said
that they were free from such right when the very purpose
of the withdrawal was to make possible the exercise of the

INO. FAC. RAILROAD v. MUSSER-SAUNTRY CO.

609

Opinion of the Court.

right?

But the language is not simply "free from rights,"

but "free from claims," and surely the defendant railway company had an existing claim. No one can read this entire description without being impressed with the fact that Congress
meant that only such lands should ..pass to the Northern
Pacific as were public lands in the fullest sense of the term,
and free from all reservations and appropriations and all
rights or claims in behalf of any individual or corporation at
the time of the definite location of its road. .NorthernPacifc
Railroadv. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620. And such is the general
rule in respect to railroad land grants.
-Leavenworth, Lawrence &o. R
Bailroad v. Vnited States, 92
U. S. 733, furnishes an apt illustration. In that case the granting act contained this provision : "That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States, by any act of Congress, or
in any other manner by competent authority, for the purpose
of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or for any
other purpose whatsoever, be, and the same are hereby, reserved to the United States from the operation of this act."
And it was contended that an Indian reservation was not
excepted from the grant because the lands were not reserved
to the United States. Upon this the, court said (pp. 741, 747):
"Congress cannot be supposed to have thereby intended io
include land previously appropriated to another purpose,
unless there be an express declaration to that effect. A special exception of it was not necessary; because the policy
which dictated them confined them to land which Congress
could rightfully bestow, without disturbing existing relations
and producing vexatious conflicts. . . . Every tract set
apart for special uses is reserved to the government, to enable
it to enforce them. There is no difference, in this respect,
whether it be appropriated for Indian or for other purposes."
See also Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, in which it was provided that the grant "shall not defeat or impair any preemption, homestead, swamp land or other lawful claim, nor
include any government reservation or mineral lands, or the
improvements of any bona fide settler;" and it was held that
the lands within the boundary of an alleged .Mexican or SpanVOL. CLXVm-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1897."
Opinion of the Court.

ish grant which was sub judice at tihe time the Secretary of
the Interior ordered a withdrawal of lands were. not within
-the grant to the company. In United States v. Souhem?'
Pacifa Railroad,146 U. S. 570, 606, it was said : "Indeed,
the intent of Congress- in all railroad land grants, as has been
understood and declared by this court again and again, is that
such grant shall operate at a fixed time; and shall take only
such lands as at ihat time are public lands."
There is no force in the contention that this construction
might operate to defeat the entire grant to the plaintiff. At
the time of the passage of the act of 1864 only in the vicinity
of the proposed eastern and western termini were there any
settlements. The great bulk of the territory through which
the road was to pass was almost entirely unoccupied. Congress, fixing the time for commencing and for finishing the
work within two and twelve years, respectively, (See. 8,) contemplated promptness in the construction of the road, intending
thereby. to open this large unoccupied territory to settlement.
In view of the road's traversing a comparative wilderness it
made a grant of enormous extent. Within the unoccupied territory thus to be traversed there were, few settlers and few, if
any, land grants. It knew, therefore, that if the company proceeded promptly, as required,.it would find within its place
limits nearly the full amount of its grant. It must be presumed
that Congress acted and would act in good faith, and, of course
there could be no intent to deplete this grant to plaintiff by
subsequent legislation in respect to land grants. On the other
hand, it must be noticed that the grant to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the constriction of the road of the defendant
railway company was prior to that to the plaintiff, and also
that prior thereto the defendant had filed its map of definite
location. In passing the act of July 2, f864-, it is, therefore,
reasonable to suppose that Congress had in mind its- earlier
grant, and did not intend that it should be diminished in any
manner thereby, but meant that the defendant railway company should receive either within its place or indemnity limits
the full amount of its lands. This, doubtless, was one of the
considerations which made the grant to the Northern Pacific
of so large an-extent.

WILSON v. LAMBERT.
Syllabus.

It may be well in concluding this opinion to again note the
fact, already mentioned, that the withdrawal here considered
was one in favor of an earlier grant. It may be that a different rule would obtain in case it was in favor of a later grant.
As to place lands, it is settled that, in case of conflict, the
title depends on the dates of the grants and not on the times
of the filing of the maps of definite location. In other words,
the earlier grant has the higher right. No scramble as to the
matter of location avails either road, and it may be that the
same thought would operate to uphold the title to the place
lands of an earlier as against a withdrawal in favor of a later
grant. Neither is it intended to question the rule that the
title to indemnity lands dates from selection and not from the
grant. All that we here hold is, that when a withdrawal of
lands within indemnity limits is made in aid of an earlier
land grant and made prior to the filing of the map of definite
location by a company having a later grant -the latter
having' such words of exception and limitation as are found
in the grant to the plaintiff - it operates to except the withdrawn lands from the scope of stich later grant.
We see no error in the record, and the decree of the Court
of Appeals is
Aflrme.

WILSON v. LAMBERT.'
APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUM -IA.
No. 164. Argued December 13, 14, 1S97.-Decided Xanuary -,1898.

Courts of equity have jurisdiction to hear the complaints of those who
assert that their lands are about to be assessed and subjected to liens by
a board or commission acting in pursuance of the provisions of a statute
which has been enacted under the forms of law, but which, it is claimed,
is unconstitutional, and therefore does not avail to confer the powers
sought to be exercised.
2 The docket title of this case is Craighill & others v. Lambert & others.

