UNITED STATES v. CROSTRWAITE.
Opinion of the Court.

UXITED STATES v. OROSTHWAITE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 7T. Submitted lovember 1, 1697.-Decided November 29, 1892.

Attorneys and counsellors specially employed to render legal services for
the United States cannot, under existing legislation, be compensated for
such services in the absence of the certificate of the Attorney General
required by Rev; Stat. ยง 365; and if he fails or refuses to give such
certificate, Congress alone can provide for compensation.
One who receives a commission as special assistant to a District Attorney
for particular cases, or for a single term of court, or.for a limited time,
is not an Assistant District Attorney within the meaning of Rev. Stat.
ยง 365, and therefore the certificate of the Attorney General prescribed
therein is a prerequisite to the allowance of compensation.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-r.

A88i tant Attorney GeneraZ _Padt for appellants.

-Mr. John
appellee.

. Ohaney and

Mr. John 1.

Garri8on for

MR. JusTICE HARLAw delivered.the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a judgment against the Government
in the Court of Claims for the sum of three hundred dollars,
which was found to be the value 6f certain services rendered
by the appellee, as a special assistant to the attorney of the
United States for the District of Idaho, at a called term of
the 0ircuit Court.
The facts found by the Court of Claims, and upon which the
appellee's claim for compensation depends, may be thus summarized:
On the 22d of June, 1892, the appellee, an examiner in the
Department of Justice, received from the Attorney General
an order directing him to discontinue the investigations then
being made by him in Utah, and proceed at once to Idaho for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of conferring with the author of a certain confidential communication which had been received by the Department of Justice. The order also directed him to examine the
offices and accounts of the United States Attorney, the United
States Marshal, the clerk of the United States court and the
United States Commissioners, investigate the manner in which
business was conducted by those officers, inform himself as to
the. character and qualifications of the various officials and
report to the Department the results of his examination.
While thus engaged in Idaho the plaintiff received by telegraph, August 9, 1892, an order from the Acting Attorney
General of the United States, directing him to "report to and
assist the United States Attorney at a special term to be called
by Judge Beatty at Coeur d'Alene City, Idaho."
On the 13th of August, 1892, he was appointed by the Acting Attorney General "a special assistant to the attorney of
the United States for the District of Idaho, to aid him in the
preparation and prosecution of all oriaiinal business properly
coming before the court during its special term, ordered at
Coeur d'Alene for August 3d, 1892." The order of appointment stated: "Your compensation will be determined by the
Attorney General upon qompletion of your service. Execute
the customary oath of office and forward the same to this
department without delay."
It should be stated'that on the 14th'day of August, 1892,
while at Boise City, and after his above appointment had been
made, but before receiving notice thereof, the*appellee mailed
to "he Attorney General an official communication in relation
to the criminal proceedings then being instituted in Idaho
against rioters and conspirators, in which he said: "I will proceed to Wallace tomorrow for the purpose of preparing the
cases for trial, and to select the necessary witnesses, in order
that none may be subpcenaed unnecessarily. The marshal has
been instructed to provide, a sufficient guard for the term to be
held, and everything appears to be moving along smoothly.
In order that no question may be raised by the defence as to
my status, and .that I may be able to appear before the grand
jury, I beg to suggest the advisability of my appointment as

UNITED STATES v. CROSTH WAITE.
Opinion of the Court.

a special assistant to the United States-Attorney, without compensation, for these cases."
The plaintiff took the required oath of office and performed
the duties aisigned to him. He appeared on behalf of the
United States before the United States -Commissioner at
Wallace, Idaho, for the purpose of having him "discharge" a
large number of rioters who had been held to appear before
-that officer, examined witnesses before the grand jury, rendered
daily service at the trial of the cases "and generally rendered
the professional assistance of an Assistant District Attorney
from the 23d of August, 1892, to the 98th of September, 1892."
He performed also his duties as Examiner of the Department

of Justice.
At the time of rendering service as special assistant to the
District Attorney he was receiving in his capacity as an examiner in the Department of Justice a salary of $2500 per
annum. He was ilso reimbursed for his travelling expenses
during the time he acted as special assistant to the District
Attorney.
Upon the conclusion of his services as above stated, the
appellee, although he had suggested that his appointment
should be without compensation, sent to the Attorney General a statement of his services, as special assistant to the
District Attorney, saying: "I send this statement to .you,
considering that it is necessary, if it shall be determined that
I shall be compensated for the services performed as ass't
U. S. att'y. I have left. the amount to be inserted at the
Department in accordance with your action thereon." But
the Attorney General expressed his surprise that the appellee
should claim special compensation and refused to fix any compensation for his services, saying, in 8, communication to the
plaintiff: "As an examiner of this department you receive
$2500 a year and expenses, and what you have been doing is
clearly within the line of your duty in the premises."
The question as to the employment of special counsel on
behalf of the United States has frequently been the subject of,
legislation by Congress.
By the second section of the act of August 2, 1861, entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"An act concerning the Attorney General and the attorneys
and marshals of the several districts," 12 Stat. 285, c. 37, it
was provided "that the Attorney General be, and he is
hereby, empowered, whenever in his opinion the public interest may require it, to employ and retain (in the name of
the United States) such attorneys and' counsellors at law as
he may think necessary to assist the District Attorneys in the
discharge of their duties, and shall stipulate with such assistant counsel the amount of compensation."'
This section was repealed by the act of March 3, 1869,
making appropriations for the Legislative, Executive and
Judicial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1870, c. 121, 15 Stat. 283, 294. But by the act
of April 10, 1869, entitled "An act concerning the Attorney
General," the above act of March 3, 1869, was itself repealed,
so far as it repealed the second section of the act of August 2,
1861, and that section was declared to be in full force; and it
was made the duty of the Attorney General to report "at the
commencement of the next session of Congress, and to each
succeeding session, the names of all the persons employed for
the purposes aforesaid, and where and upon what business
employed, with the compensation paid to each.". 16 Stat. 46,
c. 25.
Next came the act of June 22, 1870, etablishing the Department of Justice, 16 Stat. 162, 164, c. 150, the sixteenth
and seventeenth sections of which were preserved and reproduced in-the fUlowing sections of the Revised Statutes:
"SEc. 363. The Attorney General shall, whenever in his
opinion the public interest requires it, employ and retain, in
the name of the United States, such attorneys and counsellors
at law as he may think necessary to assist the District Attorneys in the discharge of their duties, and shall stipulate
with such assistant attorneys and counsel the amount of compensation, and shall have supervision of their conduct and pro-.
ceedings.
"SE . 364. Whenever the head of a Department or Bureau
gives the Attorney General due notice that the interests of
the United States require the service of counsel upon the

'UNITED STATES v. CROSTRWAITE.

379

Opinion of the Court.

examination of witnesses touching any claim, or upon the legal
investigation of any claim, pending in such Department or
Bureau, the Attorney General shall provide for such service.
"Sxo. 365. No compensation shall hereafter be allowed to
any person, beside the respective District Attorneys and Assistant District-Attorneys, for services as an attorney or counsellor
to the United States, or to any branch or Department of the
Government thereof, except in cases specially authorized by
law, and then only on the certificate of the Attorney General
that such services were actually rendered, and that the same
could not be performed by the Attorney General, or Solicitor
General, or the officers of the Department of Justice, or by
the District Attorneys.
"SEc. 366. Every attorney or counsellor who is specially
retained under the authority of the Department of Justice, to
assist in the trial of any case in which the Government is
interested, shall receive a commission from the head of such
Department, as a special assistant to the Attorney General, or
to some one of the District Attorneys, as the, nature of the
appointment may require; and shall take the oath required
by law to be taken by the District Attorneys, and shall be
subject to all the liabilities imposed upon them by law."
The object of these statutory provisions is manifest. While
giving the Attorney General full power to employ counsel
for the United States to assist those upon whom regularly
devolved the duty of representing the Government in the
courts without special compensation, Congress intended to
restrict the exercise of that power to the extent indicated in
section 365. It was left to that officer to determine whether
the public interests required the employment of special
counsel. But that the discretion given to him might not be
abused, and that unnecessary expense might be avoided, it was
declared (ยง 365) that, except in the cases of the respective District Attorneys and Assistant District Attorneys, no compensation should be allowed to any person, as an attorney or counsellor for the United States, unless specially authorized by law,
and then only on the certificate of the Attorney General that
such services were actually rendered, and that the same could

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not have been performed by the Attorney General, or by the
Solicitor General, or by the officers of the Department of
Justice, or by the District Attorneys. The giving of such a
certificate was thus made a condition of the right of the
court to give judgment, as upon contract, against the Government for any amount whatever as compensation for legal
services rendered'in its behalf by counsel specially employed
or retained by the Attorney General to assist those whose
duty it is to represent the United States in its legal business.
Attorneys and counsellors specially employed to render legal
services for the Un.ited States cannot, therefore, under existing
legislation, be compensated for such services in the absence of
the certificate of the Attorney General required by section 365
of the Revised Statutes. In accepting such employment they
take the risk of that officer giving such a certificate as.ought to
be given. If he fails or refuses to give the required certificate,
Congress alone can provide for compensation. The courts cannot disregard the express command of the statute forbidding
compensation to be allowed for legal services rendered by
special counsel when the claim therefor is not accompanied
by the prescribed certificate of the Attorney General.
This construction of the statute. necessarily requires a reversal, with direction to render judgment for the United
States, unless it be held that the plaintiff, while acting under
his commission as 4"a special assistant to the attorney of the
United States" during a single term of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Idaho and mainly for
a particular class of cases, was an Assistant District Attorney
within the meaning of the words in section 365, "beside the respective District Attorneys and Assistant District Attorneys;"
for, in the cases of the officers last named, no formal certificate
is required from the Attorney. General. But we cannot so interpret the statute. The Assistant District Attorneys referred
to in that section are those who are regular Assistant District
Attorneys, serving the Government at fixed salaries, and employed not for special cases or particular legal btisiness, nor
for a specified term of court, but generally and regularly for
all the business of the Government that may arise in the courts

UNITED STATES v. CROSTHWAITE."
Opinion of the Court.

of the district in which they serve. This interpretation finds
support in many appropriation acts. In the Sundry Civil
Appropriation Act of October 2, 1888, c. 1069, 25 Stat. 505,
545, the distinction is made between "regular Assistants to
'United States District Attorneys, who are appointed by the
Attorney General at afixed annual compensation," and "assistants to United States D5istrict Attorneys in special cases."
This distinction has been made in subsequent appropriation
and deficiency acts. 25 Stat.; October 19, 1888, c. 1210, pp.
565, 585; March 2, 1889, c. 411, pp. 939, 977: 26 Stat.; August 30, 1890, c. 837, pp. 371, 409 ; September 30, 1890, c. 1126,
pp. 504, 528, 548; March 3, 1891, c. 540, pp. 862, 892; March 3,
1891, c. 542, pp. 948, 986: 27 Stat.; July 28, 1892, c. 311, pp.
282, 311; August 5, 1892, c. 380, pp. 349, 386; March 3, 1893,
c. 208, pp. 572, 609 ; March 3, 1893, c. 210, pp. 646, 661, 668:
28 Stat.; April 21, 1894, c. 61, pp. 58, 61 ;-August 18, 1894,
c. 301, pp. 372, 416; March 2, 1895, c. 1897 pp. 910, 957: 29
Stat.; c. 33, pp. 17, 26; June 8, 1896, c. 373, pp. 267, 297, 310,
313; June 11, 1896, c. 420, pp. 413, 450.
We are of opinion that the better construction of section 365
is that one who receives a commission as special assistant to
the District Attorney for particular cases, or for a single term
of the court, or for a limited time, is not an Assistant District
Attorney within the meaning" of that section; and therefore
the certificate of the Attorney -General prescribed therein,
which even that officer cannot dispense -with, is a prerequisite
to the allowance of compensation. Any other construction of
'the statute would defeat the object of its passage, which was
to protect the Treasury from the expense incident to the employment of special counsel, where the Government did not
have'the assurance of the head of the. Department of Justice,
in the form of a certificate, that the services to be rendered
were actually rendered and could not be performed, either by
himself or by the Solicitor General, or by some officer of that
Department, or by the proper District Attorney. In this view
it was error to have rendered judgment against the Government.
Reversed, with direction8 to dismiss the action.

