OCTOBER TERIAT, 1897.
Syllabus.

lation may be found requisite to carry out the intentions of
Congress. But such questions are not now before us for determination. Should errors supervene in the administration
of the act, parties affected will have redress by appeal.
We adopt the observation made in the dissenting opinion
in the Court of Appeals : "There can be no reason or propriety
in appealing to a court of equity to restrain proceedings that
are being condhcted in other, courts, competent to cbnstrue
the statutes under which they act, and to decide every question
that may arise in the course of the proceeding. To allow
litigations to be thus diverted tends to the multiplication of
litigation, and the production of unnecessary delay and expense
-to say nothing of the unnecessary vexation to parties."
*The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed; and the
caus is remanded with directions to. said court to reverse
the decree of the S'ireme Court of the .District.ofColumbia
and to remand the cause to that court with directionsto
dismiss the bill of complaint.

SIEPARD v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE' DISTRICT COURT OF TH.E UNITED STATES IfOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 184. Submitted December 2,189T.-Decided January8, 1898.

When the court below has not acquired jurisdiction over a defendant by
a valid service of process upon him, a judgment against him.can be reviewed here through a writ of error directly sued out to this court.'
While it was the undoubted purpose of Congress in enacting in the act of
June 1, 1872, c. 255, ยง 5, embodied in Rev. Stat. ยง 14, that the "practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other
than equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shill
conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings and forms and
modes of proceeding existing.at the time in like causes in the courts of
record in the State within which such Circuit or District Courts are
held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding," to bring about
a general uniformity in Federal and state proceedings in civil cases, and
to confer ulpon suitors in courts of the United States the advantage of

SHEPARD v. ADAMS.
Statement of the Case.
remedies provided by State legislation, yet it was also the intention to
reach that uniformity largely through the discretion of Federal courts,
exercised in the form of rules, adopted from time to time, so regulating
their own practice as.might be necessary or convenient for the advancement of justice and the prevention of delays in proceedings.
The summons in this case was Issued under a general rule adopted to make
proceedings in the District Court conform to those existing at that time
under the state statutes; and if the court has not changed its rules to
make its proceedings conform to subsequent statutes changing the state
proceedings, it Is to be presumed that its discretion was legitimately
exercised both in adopting and in maintaining the rule.

Tnis was an action brought in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, by Frank Adams,
receiver of the Commercial National Bank of Denver, against
J. B. Shepard on a promissory note, dated June 7, 1893,
wherein said Shepard promised to pay to the said bank, thirty
days after date, the sum of twenty thousand dollars.
A writ of summons, in the form prescribed by the rule of
that court, was sued out against the said defendaht on the
24th day of August, .1895, whereby he was required to appear
and demur or answer to the complaint filed in said action in
said court within ten days, (exclusive of the day of service,)
after the summons -should be served on him, if such summons
should be made within the county of Arapahoe, otherwise
within forty days from the day of service.
On August 27, 1895, the deputy marshal made return of
said writ as served that day on the defendant 'at Denver,
codnty of Arapahoe.
Within ten days after the service of said summons, to wit,
on the 4th day of September, 1895, the defendant, by his
attorneys, specially appeared and moved the court to quash
the summons for the following reasons:
"First. Said summons is not such a summons as is provided
for by the statutes of Colorado. The said summons is made
retilrnable and requires the defendant to appear and answer
in this action in this court within ten days from the day of
the service of said summons, instead of thirty days, as provided by the statutes of Colorado.
"Second. The copy of said summons served upon said

. 620

OCTOBER .TERI, 1897.
Statement of the Case,

defendant is not certified to as a true copy by the clerk.of
this honorable court."
Thereafter, to wit, on the 4th day of. Juanuary, 1896, the
court, after hearing argument of counsel, overruled said motion, and the defendant electing to stand by said motion,
rendered ju.dgment in favor' of the plaintiff and against the
defendant, according to the prayer' of the complaint.
A bill of exceptions was signed and a writ of error allowed
to the Supreme Court of the United States.
It appears, by the bill of exceptions, that, on Mfarch 17,1877,.
the general assembly of the State of Colorado passed an act entitled "An act providing a system of procedure in civil actions
in the courts of justice of the State of Colorado," which act contained the following provisions: Code, 1877, c. 3.
"Civil actions in the district courts and county courts shall
be commenced by the filing of a complaint with .the clerk of
the--court in which the action is brought.and the issuing of a
summons therein; provided, that after the filing of the complaint a defendant in the%action may enter his appearance
therein, personally or by attorney, which appearance shall be
equivalent to personal service of..the summons upon him."
",The time in whicli the'summons shall require the defendant to answer .the domplaint shall be as follows: 1st. If the
defendant is served within the county in which the action is
brought, ten days. 2d. If the defendant is served out of the
county, but in the district in which the a6tion is brought,
twenty days. 3d. For all other cases, forty days."
The summons in this cause was issued and made returnable
under an.d:in pursuance of a general rule of -the District Court
of the United States fortthe District of Colorado, adopted on
October 10, 1877, which is in the follbwing terms:
โข
"Actions at law shall be commenced by filing a complaint
with the cl6rk, upon which a summons shallbe issued, directed
to the defendant, requiring him to appear and demur or answer
to the complaint within ten ,days from the day of service, if
such service shall be made within the county from which the
summons was issued, and within forty days from the day of
service if such service shall be made elsewhere in the district.

SHEPARD v. ADAMS.
Statement of the Case.

Except as provided in these rules and in the laws of the United
States, the summons and the pleadings, and proceedings in the
action shall be as prescribed in the laws of the State."
It further appears that the general assembly of the State of
Colorado passed an act on April 7, 1887, repealing the above
provisions in the act of 1877, and enacting as follows:
"Civil actions shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, or by the service of a summons.
"The complaint must be filed within ten days after the
summons is issued, or the action may be dismissed without
notice, and in such case the court may, in its discretion, if it
shall be of the opinion that the action was vexatiously commenced, tax a reasonable attorney's fee as costs in favor of
defendant, to be recovered of plaintiff or his attorney."
It also appears that the said general assembly, on April 19,
1889, passed an act, since then and now in force, containing
the following provision:
"Section thirty-four of an act entitled 'An act to provide
a code of procedure in civil actions lor courts of record in the
State of Colorado, and to repeal all acts inconsistent therewith,' approved April 7, 1887, is hereby amended to read as
follows :
"The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
State, county and court in which it is brought, and require the
defendant to appear and answer the complaint within twenty
days aftei the service of the summons, if served in the county
in which the action is brought; or if served out of such
thirty days after the service
county or

ouk rby publication,wihnh

of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that judgment by default will be taken against him according to the
prayer of the complaint, and shall briefly state the'sum of
money or other relief demanded in the action; but the summons shall not be considered void or erroneous on account of
an insufficient statement of the relief demanded, unless the
manifestly misleading. If a copy of the complaint be
same is.
not served with the summons, or if the service be made out of
the State, ten days additional to the time specified in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

summons shall be allowed for appearance and answer, but the
form of the summons shall be the same in all cases."
2f1.

T. J O'Donnell for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. 0. S. Thomas, .Mr. T. H. Bg/ant ,and Mr. E. H Lee
for defendant in error.
Mr. JusTICE

SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case is brought here, under section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, as one involving a question of the jurisdiction
of 'the District Court of the United States for the District of
: Colorado; and the first contention we have to meet is that of
the. defendant in error, that the case is not really within the
meaning of that section of said act, but presents only the case
of an alleged error in the judgment of the District Court,
redress for which should have been sought in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. It is said that the question of whether or
not the District Court acquired jurisdiction by a proper service of process is not' one which involves the jurisdiction of
'the court, within the meaning of that term as used in the act;
and the case of Smith v. .cEay, .61 U. S. 355, is cited as
sustaining such a view.
In the case referred to, the respective parties were duly in
court and the subject-matter of the controversy was -within
the jurisdiction of the court; but it was claimed by the defendant that the plaintiff, instead of asserting his right by a bill in
equity, should have. proceeded by an action at law, which
afforded an adequate remedy. -The cburt below was of opinion
that the plaintiff was not wrong in seeking his remedy in equity.
Thereupon the defendant brought the case here directly, contending that the case involved the question of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, within the meaning of section 5 of the act
of March 3, 1891. But it was held here that the court, in deciding that the plaintiff's remedy was in equity and not at
law, was in the lawful exercise of its jurisdiction,. and that, if

SHEPARD v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

the court was wrong in so deciding, it was -an error for which
the defendant should have sought his remedy in the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The present case differs from Smith v. teay in the essential feature that the contention is that the court -below neyer
acquired jurisdiction at all over the defendant by a valid
service of process. In such a case-there would be an entire
want of jurisdiction, and a judgment rendered without jurisdiction-can be reviewed on a writ of error directly sued out to
this court..
The case, then, being properly before us, we must next consider whethdr the court below erred in assuming and exercising. jurisdiction- in the cause by rendering a final judgment
against the defendant.
It is contended that the -defendant had not been brought
within the jurisdiction of the court by a proper writ of summons, and that the defendant, having duly asserted an objection, the judgment entered is void.
It is not denied that the writ in question was in conformity
with the existing rule of the District Court of the United
States, regulating the service of process, but it is claimed that
the rule and proceedings thereunder are invalid because they
did not conform to the provisions of the act of the general
assembly of Colorado, providing a system of procedure in civil
acti6ns in the courts of justice of that State.
The proposition is based on the supposed meaning and effect
of the act of Congress of June 1, 1872, as found in section 914
of the Revised Statutes, in the following terms: "The practice, pleadings and the forms and modes of proceeding in civil
causes, other than equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit
and District Courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the
practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding existing
at the time in like causes in the courts of record of the State
within which such Circuit or District Courts are held) any
rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
This section is construed by the plaintiff in error as constituting a peremptory order or direction to the District and
Circuit Courts to make their rules regulating the terms and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

service of their writs to strictly conform to the provisions of,
the state statutes regulating such matters.
Waiving any inquiry whether it is competent for a private
party, duly served with 'process in pursuance of the directions
of an existing general rule of a court of the United States, to
bring into, question' the validity of such a rule, we think that
upon areasonable construction of section 911 and of cognate
sections, presently to be mentioned, the validity of the summons and judgment in the present case can be sustained. It
is obvious that a strict and literal conformity by the United
States courts to the state provisions regulating procedure is
practically impossible, or, at least, not without overturning
and disarranging the settled practice in the Federal courts.
The state code of Colorado provides that civil actions shall
be commenced by the issuing of, a summons or the filing of a
complaint; that! the summons may be issued by the clerk of
the court or by the plaintiff's attorney; it may be signed by
the plaintiff's attorney; it may be served by a private person
not a party to the suit. All writs and processes issuing from
a Federal court must be under the seal of the court and signed
by the clerk, and 'bear teste of the judge of the court from
which they'issue. Sec. 911, .Revised Statutes. The processes
and writs must .be served by the marshal or by his regularly
appointed deputies. Sees. 787 and 788, Revised Statutes.
The very section (914) relied on by the 'plaintiff in error,takes notice' of the impossibility of an entire adoption of state
modes' of proceeding by providing that conformity is only
required "as near as may be.'
, Section 915, Revised Statutes, provides that in common law
cases in the Circuit and District' Courts the plaifitiff shall be
entitled to similar remedies, 'by attachment or other process,
against the property of-the defendant, which are provided by
the laws' of the State in which such court is held; and that
such Circuit or District Courts may, from time to time, by
general rules, adopt such state laws -as may be in force in the
States where they are held in relation to attachments and
"1
other process.
Section 916, Revised Statutes, provides that the party re-

SHEPARD v. ADAM-S.

626

Opinion of the Court.

covering a judgment in any common law cause, in any'District or Circuit Court, shall be entitled to similar remedies
upon the same, by execution -or otherwise, to reach the property of the judgment, debtor, as are now provided by laws
of the State in which the court is held, or by any such laws
hereafter enacted, which may be adopted by general rules of
such Circuit or IDistrict Court; and that such courts may,
from time to time by general rules, adopt such state laws as:
may heieafter be in force in each State in relation to remedies
upon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution or otherwise.
Section 918, Revised Statutes, provides "that the several
Circuit and District Courts may, from time to time, and in
any manner not inconsistent with any law of the United States,
or with any rule prescribed by the Supreme Court, make rules
and orders directing the returning of writs and processesIthe
filing of pleadings, the taking of rules, the entering and making up of judgments by default, and other matters in vacation,
and otherwise regulate their own practice as may be necessary
or convenient for the advancement of justice and-the prevention of delays in proceedings."
We think it is sufficiently made to appear, by these citations
from the statutes, that while it Was the purpose of Congress
to bring about a general uniformity in Federal and state proceedings in civil cases, and to confer upon suitofs in courts of
the United States the adivantage of remedies provided by
state legislation, yet that it was also the intention to reach
such uniformity often largely through the dicretion of the
Federal courts, exercised in the form of general rules, adopted
from time to time, and so regulating their own practice as
may be necessary or convenient for the advancement of justice
and the prevention of delays in proceedings.
In Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, it was sought to interpret the act pf June 1, 1872, (sec. 914, Revised Statutes,) as
bringing the Federal judges, when charging a jury in Illinois
within the practice act of that State, directing that the'court,,
in charging the jury, shall instruct them only as to the law of
the case, and give no instructions unless reluced to writing.
But this. court held that the statute was not intended.to have
VOL. CLXVm--40

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

such an application, and that the course of the court, in charging juries, was not within the act.
In Indianapolis& St. Louis Railroad v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291,

a, similar view was taken, and it was held that, in respect to submitting interrogatories to the jury and to entertaining motions
for anew trial, the Circuit Court of the United States was not,
by reason of the provisions of the act of June i, 1872, constrained to follow a state law regulating those matters; and
it was said: "The conformity is required to be ' as near as may
be '--not as near as may bepoosible,or as near as may be raticdble. This indefiniteness may have been suggested by a
purpose; it devolved upon the judges to be affected the duty
of construing and deciding, and gave them the power to reject,
as Congress doubtless expected they would do, any subordinate
provision in such state statute which, in their judgment, would
unwisely encumber the administration of the law, or tend to
defeat the ends of justice, in .their tribunals."
To the same effect is In re Chateaugay Ore & Iron Co., Petitioner, 128 U. S. 544, where it was held that the practice
and rules of the state court do not apply to proceedings
taken in a Circuit Court of the United States for the purpose
of reviewing in this court a judgment of such 0frcuit Court;
and that such rules and practice, embracing the preparation,
perfection, settling and signing of a bill of exceptions, are not
within the "practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding" which are required by section 91. of the Revised
Statutes to conform as "as near as may be" to thote existing
at the time in like causes in the courts of record of the State.
In Southern Pacific Company v. -Denton, 146 U. S. 202,
the subject and the cases were reviewed at some length, and
it was held that a statute of a State, which makes an appearance in behalf of a defendant, although in terms limited to
the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court, a
waiver of immunity from jurisdiction by reason of non-residence, is not applicable to actions in a Circuit Court of the
United States, held, within the State, under Revised Statutes,
uxton v. NSorth River Bridge Co.. 147 U. S. 337;
914.
Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S. 436.
-

HIGBILA._D AVE. RAILROAD v. EQUIPMENT CO.

627

Statement of the Case.

The general rule, under which was issued the summons by
which the plaintiff in error was brought into court, was
adopted by the District Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado on October 10, 1877, and it was in substantial conformity with the statute of Colorado then in force.
Several changes in the laws of Colorado, regulating forms of
procedure -and the times given for defendants to appear to
writs of summons, have been since enacted, but the District
Court has not seen fit to alter its rules, from time to tie, in
subserviency to such changes. We have a right td presume
that the discretion of the District Court was legitimately exercised in both adopting and maintaining the rule in question;
and its judgment is accordingly'
MR. JUSTICE WHnrE and MR. JUSTICE PEoimH X dissented.

HIGHLAND .AVTENUE AND BELT RAILROAD COMPANY v. COLUMBIAN EQUIPMENT COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 42T. Submitted November 29, 189T. -Decided

January 8, 1898.

An interlocutory order appointing a receiver is not appealable from the
Circuit Court of the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
does not become so by the incorporation into it of a direction to the
defendant, his agents and employ~s, to turn over and deliver to the receiver the property in his or their hands.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On April 5, 1897, upon
a bill duly filed by the Columbian Equipment Company, an
interlocutory order was entered in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, appointing Philip Campbell receiver of the property of the Highland
Avenue and Belt Railroad Company. Such order, besides the

