OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not. therefore bound to prove it in order to sustain a conviction. For this reason there was no fatal variance between
the offence set forth, in the indictment and the proof. 1Montgomery v. United States and Goode v. United States, 8upra.
The judgment of convictionmust be
Affirned.

, CROSSLEY v. CALIFORNIA.
&PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUiT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 470. Submitted December 14, 1897. -Decided Jafuary 3,1898.
In a trial before a state court for murder charged to havd been committed
within the State, it is for tie state court to decide whether the question of
whether the evidence tended to show that the accused was guilty of murder only in the second degree shall or shall -not be submitted to the jury,
- and its decision is not subject, to revision in the Circuit Court of the
United States, nor here.
A writ of habeas corpus cannot be made use of as a writ of error.
While the derailment of a train carrying the mails of the United States is a
crime which may be punislied through the courts of the United States
under the provisions of the statutes in that behalf, the death of the engineer thereof produced thereby, is a crime against the lawi of the State in
which the derailment takes place, for-which the person causing it may be
proceeded against in the state court through an indictment for murder.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-.,,_o appearance for appellants, and no brief filed for them.
.Mr. W. F. Fitzgerald and Mr.
pellees, submitted on their brief.
MR. CHIEF JUsTiCE FULLER

.H. Anderson, for ap-

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Worden was convicted in the Superior Court'of the county
of Yolo, California, of the crime of murder in the first degree,
and sentenced to be hanged. The Supreme Court of Cali-

CROSSLEY v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

fornia affirmed the judgment. People v. Worden, 113 California, 569.
Being in custody, awaiting execution, an application for the
writ of haheas corpus was made on behalf of Worden to the
Circuit Court of the. United States for the Northern District
of California, the application denied, and the petition dismissed. The case was then brought to this court.
Two grounds were relied on as justifying the issue of the
Vrit.
First. That there was no evidence that Worden was guilty
of murder in the first degree; that the evidence showed, or
tended to show, that he was guilty, at most, of murder in the
second degree; and that the trial court only submitted to the
jury the question as to whether or not he was guilty of murder
in the first degree. This was matter of error, and with its
disposition by the highest tribunal of the State, it was not
within the province of the Circuit Court to interfere. Nor
can the writ of habeas corpus be made use of as a writ of
error.
Second. That the state courts had no jurisdiction because
Worden was convicted of the murder of one Clark, committed
by derailing a train of which Clark was the engineer; that
this was a special train "exclusively engaged in the carrying
or transportation of the mail of the United States ;" that the
effect of the derailment "constituted an obstruction or stopping of the transmission of United States mail, and was a
restraint and retarding of the interstate commerce of the
United States;" that he, therefore, was guilty, if at all, of
offences against the laws of the United States, (§§.5440, 3995,
Revised Statutes; Act July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209,) and
that any offence. committed by him was solely cognizable in
the courts of the United States.
But it is settled law that the same act may constitute an
offence against the United States and against a State, subjecting the guilty party to punishment under the lawa of each
government; and may embrace two or more offences. Cross
v. .Worth Carqlina,132 U. S. 131, and cases cited. And see
Teal v. Felton, 12 How. 281, 292.
voi. cixvm-41

OCTOBER1 TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

There is no statute of the United States under which
Worden could, on the alleged facts, have been prosecuted for
murder in the courts of the United States. He was convicted
of that crime in the administration of the laws of California,
Penal Code, Cal. § 187, 188, 189; §§ 17, 587; and the conviction has been sustained by the highest court of the State.
As indicating that the prosecution was in tlie ordinary
course, the language of that court in the opinion delivered
on affirming the judgment may not improperly be quoted.
Among other things the court said: "The charge fully informed the jury that an intent to take human life is a necessary element of murder in tho first degree. They were told.
that in order to convict the appellant of murder in the first
degree they must be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt
.that the appellant, either personally or in concert with others,
killed the deceased with malice aforethought by som6 kind of
wilful, deliberate and premeditated killing, and that 'in order
to constitute murder in the first degree, the intent to kill
must be the result of deliberate premeditation.' This principle was given to the jury in various forms; and it is beyond
question that the evidence abundantly warranted .the jury in
finding the appellant guilty of murder in the first degreemurder of a most aggravating ahd shocking character. There
was an unnecessary allusion to the fact that the derailing of a
train "s a felony; but that in no way changed the general
nature of the charge." 113 California, 569, 576.
No ground existed on which the Circuit Court could have
held these proceedings void, and the writ was properly denied.
Order afirmeZ.
CONDE v. YORK.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME
1o. 143.

COURT

OF

THE

Argued December 6, 1897. -Decided

STATE OF

NEW

YORK.

January $, 1898.

In order to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state
court-against a title or right set up or claimed under a statute of, or an
authority exercise d under, the United States, that title or right must be

