382

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 266, 267. Argued October 2, 1897.

- Decided November 29, 1892.

The illegal acts described in subdivisions 1 and 2 of Rev. Stat. ยง 3169, for
the alleged violation of which the plaintiff in error was prosecuted,
refer to offences committed by officers or agents acting under authority
of revenue laws.
The Chinese Exclusion Acts have no reference to the subject of revenue,
but are designed to exclude persons of a particular race from the United
States, and an officer employed in their execution has no connection
with the Government revenue system.
When an indictment properly charges an offence under laws of the United
States, that is sufficient to sustain it, although the prosecuting representative of the United States may have supposed that the offence
charged was covered by a different statute.
The transactions referred to in the two indictments were of the same class
of crimes or offences, and there was no error in consolidating them at
the trial.
The affidavit and the bank book referred to in the opinion of the court, were
not admissible in evidence against the accused, as, on the face of the
transactions, there was no necessary connection between them and the
charges against him.
The estimate placed upon the character of a government employ6 by the
community cannot be shown by proof only of the estimate in which he
is held by his coemploy~s.
It was highly improper for the prosecuting officer to say in open court in
the presence of the jury, under circumstances described in the opinion
of the court, that while Mr. Williams was investigating the Chinese
female cases, there were more females sent back to China than were
ever sent back, before or after.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M[r. George -D. Collim for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Amidant Aformi4 Generd Boyd for defendants in
error.

WILLIAM4S v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.-

MR. JusTICE. HARLAN.delivered

the opinion of the court.

By ail indictment returned in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, it was
charged that the plaintiff, an officer of the Department of the
Treasury, duly appointed and acting under the authority of
the laws of the United States, and designated as Chinese
inspector at the port of San Francisco, and by virtue of his
office being authorized, directed and required to aid and assist
the collector of customs of that port in the enforcement of the
various laws and regulations relating to the coming of Chinese
persons and persons of Chinese descent from foreign ports to
the United States, "did then and there, as such officer, wflfully, knowingly, corruptly and feloniously, for the sake of
gain and contrary to the duty of his said office and by color
thereof, ask, demand, receive, extort and take of one Wong
Sam, a Chinese person, a certain sum of money, to wit, one
hundred dollars, which said sum of money was not due to
him, the said Richard S. Williams," and which he was not,
"by virtue of his said office, entitled to ask, demand, receive
or take" - that is to say, that "on the thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-five, there arrived at the pqrt of San Francisco
aforesaid from a foreign port or place, to wit, the port of
Hong Kong, in the Empire of China, a male person of Chinese descent, to wit, one Wong Lin Choy, who claimed to
the collector of customs that he was entitled to land, be and
remain within the United States, on the ground that he was a
native born of said United Stites; that thereafter such proceedings were had and taken before said collector of customs
in accordance with law that the said Wong Lin Choy was by
said collector of customs -adjudged to be entitled to and permitted to land at said port as a native born of said United
States of Chinese descent, and to be and remain in the said
United States; that thereafter
on the eighteenth
day of September, 1895,
the said Richard S. Williams corruptly and extorsively, for the sake of gain and contrary to the duty of his said office and under color thereof,
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

did extort, receive and take of said Wong Sam, who was then
and there interested in the application or claim of said Wong
Lin Choy as aforesaid, a sum of money, to wit, the sum of one
hundred dollars as aforesaid, the said Richard S. Williams,
under color of his said office, having previously, to wit, on'
the thirty-first day of August, 1895, at said city and county,
State and district aforesaid, feloniously and corruptly obtained
and exacted a promise from said Wong Sam for the payment thereof by him, to him the said Richard S. Williams, by
then and there falsely and corruptly representing to the said
Wong Sam that without the payment thereof to him, the said
Richard S. Williams, the said Wong Lin Choy would not be
permitted to land at said port, be or remain within the United
States, but would be returned to said foreign port from whence
he came, against the peace and dignity of the United States of
America," etc.
A second count-describing the official character and duties
of Williams as in the first count - charged that he wilfully and
.corruptly, and under color of his office did," take and receive
of one Wong Sam, who was then and there interested in the
claim of one Wong Lin Choy to be permitted to-land at the
port of San Francisco aforesaid, a sum of money, to wit, one
hundred dollars, as and for a fee, compensation and reward to
him, the said Richard S. Williams, for the services of him, the
said Richard S. Williams, under color of his said office, in the
matter of the application of said Wong Lin Choy, who then
and there claimed to the collector of customs of said port to
be entitled to land at said port of San Francisco from a foreign
port, to wit, the port of Hong Keong, in the Empire of China,
and to be and remain in the United States under the claim
that he was a native, born in the said United States, which
said application was then and there pending and under investigation before said collector of customs as aforesaid, whereas in
truth and in fact no fee, c6mpensation or reward was then or
at any other time due or owing from the said Wong Sam or
any other person to 'the said Richard S. Williams for such
service or any services of him, the said Richard S. Williams, in
connection with said matter or at all, nor was he, the said

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Richard S. Williams, entitled to the same by law, against the
peace and dignity of the United States of America," etc.
A second indictment containing two counts was returned in
the same court against the plaintiff in error, describing his official character and duties, and charging him in one count with
having wilfully, knowingly, corruptly and feloniously, and in
the second, with having wilfully and corruptly, under color of
his office, taken from one Chan Ying,.a Chiuese person, the sum
of eighty-five dollars, in consideration of his being permitted.
to come into and remain within the United States.
The record states that on the margin of each indictment
was an indorsement in these woids: "Sec. 3169, Rev. Stat.
sub. I & 2, and sec. 23, act of Feb'y 8, 1875, vol. 1, 2d ed.
Supp. Rev. Stat." This indorsement, it is contended, indicates the statutes under which the prosecutions were intended
to be instituted.
A demurrer to each indictment having been overruled, the
accused was duly arraigned in each case, and pleaded not
guilty. The two cases were then, on motion of the Government, consolidated and tried together. The result was a
verdict of guilty in each case. Judgment on the verdicts
having been asked, the accused interposed a motion in arrest
of judgment on the second count of each indictment, and also
a motion for a new trial in each case. The first motion was
sustained, and the second one having been overruled, the
defendant was sentenced in each case to pay a fine of $5000,
to be imprisoned for three years to date from September 22,
1896, and to be further imprisoned until the fine imposed on'
him was paid or until he should be otherwise discharged by
due process of law.
The first question to be examined is whether these prosecutions are authorized by any existing statute of the United
States. It was assumed by the learned judge who presided
at the trial that the indictments were founded upon section
3169 of the Revised Statutes and section 23 of the act of
February 8, 1875; c. 36, entitled "An act to amend existing
customs and internal revenue laws, and for other purposes."
18 Stat. 307, 312.
voL CLx V=-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 3169 of the Revised Statutes is part of Ohapter I of
Title XXXV, " Internal Revenue," and was brought forward
from the act of July 20, 1868, c. 186, ยง 98, entitled "An act
imposing taxes on distilled -spirits and tobacco, and for. other
purposes." 15 Stat. 125, 165. By that section, which is
given in full in the margin,1 it is declared that "every officer
Iยง 3169. Every officer or agent appointed and acting under the authority of any revenue law of the United StatdsFirst. Who is guilty of any extortion or wilful oppression under color
of law; or
Second. Who knowingly demands other or greater sums than are anrthorized by law, or receives any fee, compensation or reward, except as
by law prescribed, for the performance of any duty; or
Third. Who wilfully neglects to perform any of the duties enjoined on,
him bylaw; or
Fourth. Who conspires or colludes with any other person to defraud
the United States; or
Fifth. Who makes opportunity for any person to defraud the United
States; pr
Sixth. Who does or omits to do any act with intent to enable any other
person to defraud the United States; or
Seventh. Who negligently or designedly permits any violation of the
law by any other person; or
Eighth. Who makes or signs any false entry in any book, or makes or
signs any false certificate or return, in any case where he is by law or regulation required to make any entry, certificate or return; or
Ninth. Who, having -knowledge or information of the violation of any
revenue law by any person, or of fraud committed by any person against
the United States under any revenue law, fails to report, in writing, such
knowledge or information to hiis next superior officdr and to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; or .
Tenth. Who demands, or accepts, or attempts to collect, directly or
indirectly, as payment or gift, or otherwise, any sum of money or other
thing of value for the compromise, adjustment or settlement of any charge
or complaint for any violation or.alleged violation of law, except as
expressly authorized by law so to do, shall be dismissed from office, and
shall be held to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than
one thousand dollars nor more than five thousand dollars, and be imprisoned
not less than six months nor more than three years. The court shall alsQ
render judgment against the said officer or agent for the amount of damages
sustained in favor of the party injured, to be collected by execution. One
half of the fine so imposed shall be for the use of the United States, and
the other half for the use of the informer., who shall be ascertained by the
judgment of the court.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

or agent appointed and acting under the authority of any revenue law of the United States, first, who is guilty of any
extortion or wilful oppression under color of laAv, or, second,
who knowingly demands other or greater sums than are authorized by law, or receives any fee, compensation or reward,
except as by law prescribed, for the performance of any duty,
shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars nor

more than five thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not less
than six months nor more than three years. The court shall
also render judgment against said officer or agent for the
amount of damages sustained in favor of the party injured,
to be collected by execution. One half of the fine so imposed
shall be for the use of the United States, and the other half
for the use of the informer, who shall be ascertained by the
judgment of the court."
Section 23 of the above act of February 8, 1875, provides:
"All acts and parts of acts imposing fines, penalties or other
punishment for offences committed by an internal revenue
officer or other officer of the Department of the Treasury of
the United States, or under any bureau thereof, shall be, and
are hereby, applied to all persons whomsoever, employed,
appointed or acting under the authority of any internal revenue or customs law, or any revenue provision of any law of
the United States, when such persons are designated or acting
as officers or deputies, or persons having the custody or disposition of any public money."
We are of opinion that these prosecutions cannot be sustained under the above statutes. The words "extortion or
wilful oppression under color -of law," and the knowingly
demanding "other or greater sums than are authorized by
law," or the receiving "any fee, compensation or reward, except as by law prescribed, for the performance of any duty"
illegal acts described in subdivisions one and two of section
3169 of the Revised Statutes-refer to offences committed by
officers or agents "appointed and acting under the authority
of any revenue law of the United States." The accused, in his
capacity of Chinese inspector, did not act under any law that
could properly be regarded as a revenue law. He was ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pointed pursuant to acts of Congress appropriating money to
be used by the Treasury Department "to prevent unlawful
entry of Chineae into the United States, by the appointment
of suitable officers to enforde the laws in relation thereto, and
for expenses of returning to China all Chinese persons found
to be unlawfully within the United States." 26 Stat.: August
30, 1890, c. 837, pp. 371, 387; March 3, 1891, c. 542, pp. 948,
968; 27 Stat.: March 3, 1893, c. 208, pp. 572, 589; 28 Stat.:
March 12,,1894, c. 37, p. 41; August 18, 1894, c. 301, pp. 372,
390; January 25, 1895, c. 43, pp. 636, 637; March 2, 1895, c.
187, pp. 843, 8%6; March 2, 1895, c. 189, pp. 910, 932; 29 Stat.:
June 11, 1896, c. 420, pp. 413, 431. The Chinese Exclusion
Acts have no reference to the subject of revenue, but are
designed to exclude persons of a particular race from the
territory of the United States. Clearly, Chinese inspectors,
proceeding underthe acts providing for their appointment,
have no connection with the revenue system of the Government, although the execution of the acts referred to is committed to the Treasury Department.
Nor can the prosecutions be sustained under the twentythird section of the act of February 8, 1875. That section
does nothing more than subject persons employed, appointed
or acting under the authority' "of any internal- revenue or
customs law, or any -revenue provision of any law of the United
States," to the same fines, penalties or other punishment for
offences committed by an internal revenue officer or other
officer of the Treasury, or under any bureau thereof. The
words, "internal revenue or customs law," do not include the
statutes providing for the exclusion of Chinese persons from
this country.
But there is a statute under which, in our judgment, a
Chinese inspector, guilty of extortion under color of his office,
can be prosecuted and subjected to fine and imprisonment. It
is section 5481 of the Revised Statutes, providing that, " Every
officer of the United States who is guilty of extortion under
color of his office shall be punished by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not more than one
year, except those officers or agbnts of the United States other-

WiLLIAMS v. UNITED STATES:
Opinion of the Court.

wise differently and specially provided for in subsequent sections of this chapter."
It is said that these indictments were not returned under
that statute, and that the above indorsement on the margin
of each indictment shows that the District Attorney of the
United States proceeded under other statutes that did not
cover the case of extortion committed by a Chinese inspector
under color of his office. It is wholly immaterial what statute
was in the mind of the District Attorney when he drew the
indictment, if the charges made are embraced by some statute
in force. The indorsement on the margin of the indictment
constitutes no part of the indictment and does not add to or
weaken the legal force of its averments. We must look to
the indictment itself, and if it properly charges an offence
under the laws of the United States, that is sufficient to
sustain it, although the representative of the United States
may have supposed that the offence charged was covered by
a different statute.
That the first count of each indictment makes a case of
extortion .under color of office, within the meaning of section
5481, is too clear to admit of dispute. The court below, therefore, while erroneously adjudging that the prosecutions were
embraced by section 3169 of the Revised Statutes and the
above act of February 8th, 1875, did not err in overruling the
demurrer to the first count of the respective indictments.
We say nothing as to the second count in either indictment,
because judgment on that count was arrested, and that action
of the court is not subject to review on this writ of error.
United States v. Sanges, 144 U.'S. 310.
It is proper also to observe that there was error in the judgment as to the fine and imprisonmeit imposed upon the accused. Section 5481 of the Revised Statutes provides that
the fine should not exceed $500, nor the imprisonment more
than one year. If this were the only error complained of,
the result would not be an entire failure of the prosecutions,
for it would only be necessary for the court below to enter a
new judgment, imposing such fine or imprisonment, or both,
as the statute permitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

But-other errors are assigned relating to the conduct of the
trial. They must be examined, because if any of them affect
the substantial rights of the accused, a new trial must be the result in each case.
It is assigned for error that the District Court consolidated
the two cases, and tried them at the same time and by the
same jury. This pbjection is without merit. By section 1024
of the Revised Statutes it is provided: "When there are
several charges against any person for the same act or transaction, or for two or more acts or transactions connected to.gether, or for two or more acts or transactions of the same
class of crimes or offences, which may be properly joined,
instead of having several indictments the whole may be
joined in one indictment in separate counts; and if two or
more indictments are found in such cases, the court may
order them to be consolidated." The accused having been
charged with different acts or transactions "of the same class
of crimes or offences," it is scarcely necessary to say that the
transactions referred to in the indictments, being of the same
class of crimes, could properly, that is, consistently with the
essential principles of criminal law, be joined in one indict.
ment against a single defendant without embarrassing him
or confounding him in his -defence. Pointer v. United States,
151 U. S. 396, 400: The plaintiff in error cites .McElroy v.
United States, 164 U.'S. 76, as sustaining his objection to the
consolidhtion. This is a misapprehension. The inquiry in
that case 'Was "whether counts against five defendants can
be coupled with a count against part of them, or offences
charged to -have been committed by all at one time can be
joined with another and distinct offence committed by part
of them at a different timer' It was held that the statute
did not authorize that to be done. The Chief Justice, speaking for the court, said: "It is clear that the statute does not
authorize the consolidation of indictments in such a way that
some of the defendants may be tried at the same time with
other defendants charged with a crime different from that for
which all are tried." Here, the indictments were against the
same person, the offences charged were of the-same kind, were

WILLIAMS v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

provable by the same kind of evidence, and could be tried
together without embarrassing the accused in making his
defence.
If the offences could be joined in one indictment, it would
follow, under the statute, that separate indictments could, in
the discretion of the court, be consolidated and tried at the
same time and before the same jury. Nothing in the record
shows that the consolidation of these cases worked or could
have worked any prejudice to the defendant.
At the trial below the Government read in evidence, over
the objections of the accused, his affidavit filed in a divorce
suit brought against him by Isabella M. Williams in the Supreme Court of San Francisco. That affidavit, made June 1,
1896, was as follows: "I have read the affidavit of plaintiff in
reply on her motion for alimony, etc., arid in reply thereto I
desire to say it is untrue that prior to the time I entered the
employment of the United States Government I was without
means and had had no money for quite a time before, or that
I had to borrow money to pay my living expenses. On the
contrary, when I entered the employment of the United States
Government, on or about the 28th day of September, 1893, I
was worth more money then than I am at the present time,
being worth about $5000, and since then having inherited
some property; that the $3000 referred to in said affidavit
was not acquired by me during the time I was in the employment of the United States Government, as set forth in' said
affidavit, but is a portion of the $5000 heretofore referred to.
The statement in said affidavit that I have in my possession
or had in my possession, in addition to the said sum of $3000
aforesaid, the sum of $5000 instead of $4000, is false and untrue; that, to my knowledge, plaintiff was not in the habit of
carrying said sum of $5000 in the bosom of her dress. On
the contrary, there was on deposit in the Hibernia Savings
and Loan Society in her name, belonging to me, the sum of
about $4000, which was a-part of the $5000 possessed by me
at the time I entered the employment of the United States
Government. The $3000 in bank referred to is a portion of
said sum so deposited in the name of plaintiff in the Hibernia

392.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Savings and Loan Society. In answer to the statement contained on page 2 of said affidavit, to the effect that plaintiff
paid for the piano therein referred to and the bill therefor was
made out in her name, I simply desire to annex the bill for
said piano to this affidavit, showing the bill to be made out in
the name of R. S. Williams. The property at Nos. 420 and
422 Scott street, mentioned on page 2 of said affidavit, was acquired by my stepfather, Henry Monsferran, now deceased.
He was a foreigner, unaccustomed to speaking the English
language, and the details- of the purchase were made by me,
but the money that paid for said property was solely and
exclusively the money of the said Henry -Monsferran. The
deed to the property was taken in his name. It is untrue
that at the time plaintiff left our residence on the 29th day of
April, 1896, she left said sum of $5000 in greenbacks. On
the contrary, as above stated, there was no such sum, and
the money referred to by her as having been drawn from the
Hibernia Savings and Loan Society is $3000, so deposited in
the savings bank. It is untrue, as stated in said affidavit,
that I avoided the service of the summons and complaint in
this action, or that by reason thereof plaintiff incurred an
expenditure of $11.25'
It is stated in the bill of exceptions that, independently
of that affidavit, there was no evidence whatever before the
court relative to the matters therein referred to except certain
bank books offered and read in evidence, over the objections
of the accused..
The bill of exceptions states that at the trial the prosecution
offered in evidence a book of the deposit of moneys in the
San Francisco Savings Union, a banking corporation of the
State of California, which book and deposits were in the name
of the defendant; also a book of the deposit of moneys in the
Hibernia Savings and Loan Society, a banking corporation of
the State of California, which latter book and deposits were
in the name of Isabella M.,- Williams. The deposits in the
San Francisco Savings Union, as evidenced by the book:first
mentioned, were as follows: October 29, 1893, $350; November -1-8, 1895,,$400; December 17, 1895, $550, making a total

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of $1300. The deposits in the Hibernia Savings and Loan
Society, as evidenced by the bank book in the name of Mrs.
Williams, were as follows: September 10, 1895, $300; September 24, 1895, $150; October 8, 1895, $800; October 23,
1895, $700; December 2, 1895, $1000, making a total of $3450.
It is stated in the"bill of exceptions that these bank books
and affidavit were the only evidence before the court relative.
to such deposits, and that there was no evidence indicating
the existence of any privity or relation between the defendant
and Mrs. Williams at the time the above deposits were made
by her or at any other time, except as indicated in the above
affidavit.
It may be also observed that when the affidavit and bank
accounts were offered in evidence, no suggestion was made
that the prosecution would at some stage of the trial show
that the sums alleged to have been received by the accused
under color of his office were part of any sum referred to in
the affidavit and bank books.
The defendant duly excepted'to the action of the court in
allowing the affidavit and bank books to be read in evidence.
The manner in which the trial court dealt with this evidence
appears from the following extracts from its instructions to
the jury:
"There has been some testimony in support of the allegations of these indictments respecting the pecuniary condition
of the defendant, and also testimony as to the extent of his
compensation by the Government for services. This evidence
was admitted in compliance with a well-known rule .which
establishes the relevance of evidence of this character where
the charge is such as that alleged in these indictments. If
the salary of the defendant, during the time alleged in the
indictments and before then, was four or five dollars per day,
and if the testimony shows to your satisfaction that he has
deposited in bank or there was deposited to his-credit in bank
in the neighborhood of $1750 from September 10 to December 17, 1895, alleged in the indictments, then such testimony
may be considered by you with a view of ascertaining how
or by what means the defendant obtained that amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Cort.

money at. a time when his compensation by the Government,
as is claimed by the prosebution, was not to exceed about $150
per month. Where did he get such large sums of money?
From what source other than the source named in the indictments did he acquire this money? Has he furnished evidence
explaining to your satisfaction the possession of these sums of
money? These are all questions which you will consider, and
if any explanation made by the defendant as to how he came
-by this money seems incredible, irrational and unsatisfactory
yod are at liberty to reject it and to act upon 'the other testimony in the case. If, after doing all this, you feel to a moral
certainty and beyond a reasonable doubt that he took the
money, as-alleged in the indictments, then your verdict should
be guilty. In reference to the testimony which has been introduced in the case showing the ,pecuniary condition of the
detendant, that if testimony explaining how, when and by
what means the defendant acquired possession of the sums of
money shown to have been deposited in the. San Francisco
Savings Union and Hibernia bank. could have been offered by
defendant, and he failed to produce such testimony, then! such
failure may very properly be taken into consideration by the
jury in determining tlhe defendant's guilt or innocence. Where
probable proof is brought of a state of facts tending to criminate the accused, the absence of evidence tending to a contrary conclusion may be considered, although this attitude of
,the case alone-would not be entitled to much weight, because
the burden of proof lies on the prosecution to make out the
whole case by sufficient evidence; but when proof of inculpating circumstances had been produced tending .to support the
charge, and it is apparent that'the accused is so situated that
he could offer evidence of all the facts and circumstances as
they existed, and show, if such was the truth, that the suspicious circumstances can be accounted for consistently with
his innocence, and he fails to offer such proof, the natural conclusion is that the proof, if produced, instead of rebutting,
would tefhd to sustain the charges. Therefore, if in this case
the defendant could have produced testimony explaining his
several deposits in the San Francisco Savings Union and the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Hibernia bank during the months of September, October,
November and December, 1895, and has failed to produce
such testimony, then you are at liberty to infer that any
explanatien :n his power to make would have been, if made,
adverse and prejudicial to the defence."
After referring to some authorities announcing the general
rule that a party in omitting to produce evidence in elucidation of the subject-matter in dispute which is within his
power, and which rests peculiarly within his own knowledge,
frequently affords occasion for the presumption that such evidence, if adduced, would operate to his prejudice, and after
referring to the affidavit made by Williams-in the divorce
suit, the court proceeded in its instructions: "It is the duty
of the jury to ascertain from said affidavit and from the other
testimony in the case what portions of the same are true.
The jury is then at liberty to believe one part of it and to
disbelieve the other part. Such affidavit was introduced upon
the theory that it constituted an admission on the part of the
defendant as to his ownership of certain funds referred to
therein. The defence then insisted, as they had, a right to,
that the entire affidavit should be read. -The whole of it is
now before you, and it is for you to determine, from all of the
circumstances of this case, the situation of the defendant, and
all of the evidence that has been introduced, as to what portion of said affidavit, if any, is true. .You are at liberty to
believe or reject such portions of it as you thihk may be
worthy of belief or disbelief. In this respect I call yourattention to the deposits as they were made.

.

.

.

These

deposits were made, as you will observe, at different times.
In September he appears to have deposited the sum of $450 ;
in October he deposited $1650 ; in November he deposited
$1100, and in December, up to the 17th, he deposited $1550,
making a total, as I said, of $4750; nine deposits in three
months and seventeen days. Does the defendant's affidavit
satisfactorily explain or account for the receipt of these sums
of money ?"
We are of opinion that the affidavit and the bank books
were not admissible in evidence against the accused. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

was nothing before the jury in respect of the matters referred
to in the affidavit except the affidavit itself, and nothing relating to the deposits except that disclosed by the affidavit
and the bank books. Taking the case to be as presented by
the bill of exceptions, the utmost the evidence tended to
show, was that the accused had in his possession at different
times certain sums that were deposited by him in bank to his
credit or to the credit of his wife. It is to be observed that
no sum so deposited corresponded in amount with the sums
which he was charged with having extorted under color of
his office as Chinese inspector. U pbn the face of the transactions referred to there was no necessary connection between
the deposits and the specific charges against the defendant.
And yet the jury were in effect told that the failure of the
accused to explain how he, cane by those . sums, aggregating
nearly five, thousand dollars, was a circumstance tending to
show that if he had given that explanation it would have
operated to his prejudice, in meeting the particular charges
against him, of extorting at one time $100, and at another
$85, under color of his office. There was no such connection
shown between the possession by the defendant of the sums
specified in the affidavit and bank books,, and the alleged
extortion by him of two named sums from certain persons,
undier color of his office, as required him to explain how he
acquired the moneys referred to in the affidavit and bank
books. The manifest object and the negessary effect of this
evidence was merely to give color to the present charges, and
to cause the jury to believe that, the accused had in his possession more money than a man in his condition could have
obtained by honest methods,,and, therefore, he must be guilty
of extorting the two sums in question. The present case does
not come within the rule of evidence referred to by the learned
court. The jury may have been unable to say from the evidence where the" defendant obtained the moneys deposited
in bank and specified in the bank book, aggregating $4750
between certain dates. But that did not justify the conclusion that he had, under color of his office as Chinese inspector,
extorted one hundred'dollars upon one occasion and eighty-

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

five dollars upon another occasion. The accused was entitled
to stand upon the presumption of his innocence, and it cannot
be said from anything in the present record that he was under
any obligation arising from the rules of evidence to explain
that which did not appear to have any necessary or natural
connection with the offence imputed to him. In our judgment the court, under the circumstances disclosed, erred in
not excluding the affidavit and bank books as evidence, as
well as in what it said to the jury on that subject.
Another assignment of error relates to the admission, against
the objection of the defendant, of certain evidence as to
character. A witness called by the prosecution was permitted to testify that the defendant's reputatibn "in the
custom house" was bad, although he had distinctly stated,
upon preliminary examination, that he did not know the
general reputation of the accused "outside of the custom
house." This was error. Assuming (although the record is
silent on the subject) that the accused introduced evidence of
his general reputation for integrity, it is clear that evidence,
on behalf of the prosecution, that among the limited number
of people employed in a particular public building his character was bad, was inadmissible. The prosecution should have
been restricted to such proof touching the character of the
accused as indicated his general reputation in the community
in which he resided, as distinguished from his reputation
among a few persons in a particular building. The estimate
placed upon his character by the community geierally could
not be shown by proof only as to the estimate placed upon
him by persons in the custom house.
Another assignment of error deserves to be noticed. One
of the witnesses for the defence was the collector of customs
for the port of San Francisco. He was asked to whom, upon
his return from Washington, was assigned the investigation
of female cases. The court having inquired as to the purpose
of this testimony, the attorney for the accused said: "It has
been sworn to by Mr. Tobin that Mr. Williams asked for certain cases to be assigned to him and show the result. We
propose to show by Mr. Wise that on his return from Wash-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

ington he assigned to Williams the investigation of Chinese
female cases, and while Mr. Williams was acting in that
behalf there were more females sent back to China than ever
were sent back before or after." The representative of the
Government Objected to this evidence as irrelevant, saying, in
open court, and presumably in the hearing of the jury, "no
doubt, every Chinese woman who did not pay Williams was
sent .back." The attorney for the.accused objected to the
prosecutor makifig any such statement before the jury. The
court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted.
The objection should have been sustained. The observation
,made by the prosecuting attorney was, under the circumstances, highly improper, and not having been withdrawn,
and the objection to it being overruled by the court, it tended
to prejudice the rights of the accused to a fair and impartial
trial for the particular offences charged.
For the several errors committed at the trial, to which we
have referred, the judgment is :reversed. in each case,
with directions to grant a new trial.
MR. 'JUSTICE BREwER did not hear the argument in this case
and did not participate in the decision.
MR.

JuSTiE-BRowx concurred in the result.

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 876. Argued November 9,10,189. - Declded November 29,1897.

This court follows the construction given by the Supreme Court of -the
State of Georgia to the statutes of. that State called .in question in this
case.
If, after a regular conviction and sentence .in that State, a suggestion of a
then existing insanity is made, it is not necessary, in order to constitute
"due process of law," that the question so presented should be tried by
a jury.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

