OCTOBER TERM, -1897.
Syllabus.

would have had a lawful right to make perfect had the territory not been acquired by the United States." This would
preclude the idea, that possession since the date of the treaty,
however exclusive and notorious, could be regarded as an
element going to make up a perfect title. There was no
evidence of more than six or eight years' possession prior
to the date of the treaty, and this, under any construction
of the Spanish or Mexican laws, would be insufficient to constitute a title as against the sovereign. Indeed, it may be
open to doubt whether under the legislation of Mffexico publio
lands are not imprescriptible; but if it be otherwise, it would
seem that under the decree of the King of Spain of July 16,
1819, nothing less than a-possession of forty years could be
deemed or respected as creating title by adverse possession.
2 White's New Recopilacion, 562.
The disposition we have made of this case renders it unnecessary to consider whether the document offered in evidence to establish the plaintiffs' title, 'which was neither the
expediente, nor the testimonio, or official copy thereof - and
was merely an unsworn and unverified copy of the testimonia
-

was admissible at all..

If there be any hardship to the petitioners in the rejection
of this grant, they must apply for relief to another department of the Government. We are bound by the language
of the act creating the Court of Private Land Claims. Its
decree in this case was correct, and it is therefore
Affirmed.
ROFF v. BURNEY.
* RROR TO THE UNITED

STATES

COURT

FOR THE INDIAIf

TERRI-

TORY.
No. 84. Submitted October 15, 1897. -Decided November 29;1897.

A right of citizenship in an Indian Nation, conferred by an act of its legislature, can be withdrawn by a subsequent act; and this rule applies to
citizenship created by marriage with such a citizen.
Whether anyights of property could be taken away by such subsequent
act, is not considered or decided.

ROFF v. BURNEY
Statement of the Case.

THis case comes from the United States Court for the
Indian Territory on a certificate as to jurisdiction. The
amended complaint filed in that court November 6, 1893,
besides stating a cause of action in favor of the plaintiff
against the defendant, alleges the following facts bearing on
the question of jurisdiction: That the plaintiff is a natural
born citizen of the United States of America; has never renounced his allegiance to said government, and has never
*taken an oath of allegiance to any foreign government of any
kind whatever; that he has ever -been and is yet a citizen of
the United States; that the legislature of the Chickasaw
Nation, on October 7, 1876, passed the following act:
"SEcriow 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the. Chickasaw Nation, That the right of citizenship is hereby granted to
the following-named children and nephews of William H. Bourland : Amanda, Matilda, Gordentia and Run Hannah."
That by this act, which was simply a confirmation of a
prior statute, passed in 1857, the parties named therein became adopted citizens of the Chickasaw Nation; that he was
duly and legally married to one of the parties named therein,
to wit, Matilda Bourland, while she was such adopted citizen;
that thereafter, and on October 11, 1883, the legislature of
the Chickasaw Nation passed another act, as follows:
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the Chickasaw
Nation, That the right of citizenship granted to the followingnamed children and nephews of W. H. Bourland, Amanda,
Matilda, Gordentia and Run Hannah, approved October 7,
1876, the same is hereby repealed and annulled.
"SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the governor is
hereby directed and required to remove said parties and their
descehdants beyond th- limits of this nation, and that this
act take effect from and after its passage."
And that since the passage of the last-named act the Chickasaw government and all the officials thereof have refused to
recognize this plaintiff as a member of the Chickasaw tribe,
or a citizen of said Chickasaw Nation, and that the courts of
that nation have refused to entertain jurisdiction of any controversy between him and any member of the tribe of Chick-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

asaw Indians, and still refuse to entertain jurisdiction of such
controversies.
Article 7 of the treaty of June 22, 1855, between the
United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw.tribes, 11 Stat.
611, 612, is as follows:
"So far as may be compatible with the Constitution of the
United States and the laws made in pursuance thereof, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, the Choctaws and Chickasaws shall be secured in the unrestricted
right of self-government, and full jurisdiction, over persons
and property, within their respective limits; excepting, however, all persons with their property, who are not by birth,
adoption or otherwise citizens or members of either the Choctaw or Chickasaw tribe."
Article 38 of the treaty with the same tribes, of date April
28, 1866, 14 Stat. 169, 779, provides:
"Every white person who, having married a Choctaw or
Chickasaw, resides in the said Choctaw or Chickasaw Nation,
or who has been adopted by the legislative authorities, is to
be deemed a member of said nation, and shall be subject to
the laws of the Choctaw and Chickasaw N~ations according
to his domicil, and to prosecution and trial before their tribunals, and to punishment according to their laws in all respects
as though he was a native Choctaw or Chickasaw."
Section 6 of the act creating the United States Court in
the Indian Territory, approved .arch 1, 1889, c. 333, 25 Stat.
783, 784, reads:
"That the court hereby established shall have jurisdiction
in all civil cases between citizens of the United States who
are residents of the Indian Territory, or between citizens of
the United States, 'or of any State or Territory therein, and
any citizen of or person or persons residing or found in the
Indian Territory, and when the value of the thing in controversy, or damages or money claimed shall amount to one
hundred dollars or more: Provided, That nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to give the court jurisdiction ovev controversies between persons of" Indian blood
only."

ROFF v. BURNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

This was amended by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 91, which, in section 30, p. 94, contains this proviso:
"Provided, however, That the judicial tribunals of the
Indian nations shall retain exclusive jurisdiction in all civil
and criminal cases arising in the country in which members
of the nation by nativity or by adoption shall be the only
parties."
And in section 31, p. 96, it was also provided:
"But nothing in this act shall be so construed as to deprive
any of the courts of the civilized nations of exclusive jurisdiction over all cases arising wherein members of said nations,
whether by treaty, blood or adoption, are the sole parties,
nor so as to interfere with the right and power of said civilized nations to punish said members for violation of the
statutes and laws enacted by their national councils where
such laws are not contrary to the treaties and laws of the
United States."
.Mr. C. I. Herbertfor plaintiff in error.
Mr.E. C. Potterfand Mr. w.F.Bowman for defendant in
error.
i .. JusTioE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The condition of the Indians and Indian tribes within the
limits of the United States is anomalous. The tribes, though
in certain respects regarded as possessing the attributes of
nationality, are held to be not foreign, but domestic dependent
nations. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1; Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; Choctaw NYation v. United States, 119
U. S. 1; Cherokee Nation v. RYansas Railway Company, 135
U. S. 64:1. While the Indians and the territory which may
have been specially set apart for their use are subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States, and Congress may pass
such laws as it sees fit prescribing the rules governing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court

intercourse of the Indians with one another and with citizens
of the United States, and also the courts in which all controversies to which an Indian may be a party shall be submitted,
United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567; United States v. Hagama,
118 U. S. 375; -Gon-Shay-Ee, Petitioner, 130 U. S. 343;
Cherokee Niation v. Kansas Railway Company, supra, the
mere fact that a citizen of the United States has become a
member. of an Indian tribe by adoption may not necessarily
cancel his citizenship. As said by Chief Justice -Taney, in
United States v. Rogers, supra, p. 573, "whatever obligations
the prisoner may have taken upon himself by becoming a
Cherokee by adoption, his responsibility to the laws of the
United States remained unchanged and undiminished." Indeed, by section 43 of the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 99,
provision is made for the naturalization of members of the
Indian tribes in the Indian Territory, with a proviso "that
the Indians who become citizens of the United States under
the provisions of this act do not forfeiC or lose any rights or
privileges they enjoy or are entitled to as members of the
tribe or nation to which they belong."
Now, according to this complaint, plaintiff was a citizen of
the United States. Matilda Bourland Was not a Chickasaw
by blood, but one upon whom the right of Chickasaw citizenship had been conferred by an act of the Chickasaw legislature. The citizenship which the Chickasaw legislature could
confer it could withdraw. The only restriction on the power
of the Chickasaw Nation to legislate in respect to its internal
affairs is that such legislation shall not conflict with the
Constitution or laws of the United States, and we know of
no provision of such Constitutior or laws which would be set
at naught by the action of a political community like this in
withdrawing privileges of membership in-the community once
conferred. The Chickasaw legislature, by the second act,
whose meaning is clear though its phraseology may not be
beyond criticism, not only repealed the prior act but cancelled
the rights of citizenship granted thereby, and further directed
the governor to remove the parties named therein and their
descendants beyond. the limits of the nation. This ac. was

BOFF v. BURNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

not one simply taking effect as of the date of its passage, and
then withdrawing rights admitted to have been theretofore
legally granted, but was retroactive in its scope, and purported to annul and destroy all that had ever been attempted
to be done in respect to the matter. Whether any rights of
property could be taken away by such subsequent act need
not be considered. It is enough to hold that all persohal
rights founded on the mere status created by the prior act
fell when that status was destroyed. Plaintiff never took any
oath of allegiance to the Chickasaw Nation; never in terms
relinquished his full rights as a citizen of the United States.
Doubtless, by intermarriage with one who was at the time by
legislative act a Chickasaw citizen, he acquired the rights and
privileges of a member of that tribe or nation, but when that
which was the foundation upon which such acquisition rested
was taken 'away by act of the nation, then all those rights
and privileges ceased. The tie which bound him to the nation
was his wife's citizenship. That tie the nation destroyed...
Its destruction released him. That such was the effect of
this legislative act is established by the conduct of the
Chickasaw government and all its officials, for they have
refused to recognize plaintiff as any longer a member of the
Chickasaw Nation, and the courts of that nation have declined
to entertain jurisdiction of any suits brought by him against
a Chickasaw. The validity of the act withdrawing citizen-ship from the wife of plaintiff, and the consequent withdrawal from plaintiff of all the rights and privileges of
citizenship in the Chickasaw Nation, has been practically
determined by the authorities of that nation, and that determination is not subject to correction by any direct appeal
from the judgment of the Ohickasaw courts. It follows,
therefore, that his right as a citizen of the United States to
appeal to the Federal courts to take jurisdiction of his claims
against one of the Chickasaw Nation must be sustained, for
it cannot be that a citizen of the United States residing in the
Chickasaw Nation can be wronged without an opportunity
of redress in some judicial tribunal. We are of opinion,
therefore, that" the plea to the jurisdiction was wrongfully

221:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897,
Statement of the Case.

sustained, and the judgment of the United States Court for
the Indian Territory will be
Reversed and the case remanded,with instruction8 to overrule the plea to the jurisdiotion.

OGDEN CITY v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 12T. Argued November 11, 189T. - Decided November 29,1897.

An examination of the record discloses that none of the complainants, save
one, was assessed with a sufficient amount of taxes, to enable him to
bring the case here on appeal, and accordingly, under the doctrine of
RusseZZ v. StanseZl, 105 U. S. 303, and Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27,
the appeal is dismissed as to such parties.
No jurisdiction vested in the appellant's city council to make an assessment
and levy a tax for the improvements which are the subject of this
controversy until the assent of the requisite proportion of the owners
of the property to be affected "had been obtained, and the action of the
city council in regard to that question was not conclusive.
In order to justify a court of equity in restraining the collection of a tax,
circumstances must exist bringing the case under some recognized head
of equity jurisdiction; and this case seems plainly to be one of equitable
jurisdiction, within that doctrine.
When the illegality or fatal defect in a tax does not appear on the face of
the record, courts of equity regard the case as coming within their
jurisdiction.
When the authorities have jurisdiction to act, the statutory remddy is the
taxpayer's exclusive remedy; but when the statute leaves open to
judicial inquiry all questions of a jurisdictional character, a determination of such questions by an administrative board does not preclude
parties aggrieved from resorting to judicial remedies.

THE original bill in this case was filed in May, 1892, in the
Fourth Judicial District Court of the late Territory of Utah,
against Ogden City, a municipal corporation, and its mayor
and the members of its common council; and it was thereby
sought to restrain the city and its officers from levying assessments upon the real estate of the plaintiffs -and others simi-

