OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

TURNER v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORX.
No. 41. Argued April 19, 20, 1897.-

Decided October 18, 1897.

The statute of New York of 1885, c. 448, providing that deeds from the
comptroller of the State of lands in the forest preserve sold for nonpayment of taxes shall, after having been recorded for two years, and
in any action brought more than six months after the act takes effect,
be conclusive evidence that there was no irregularity in the assessment
of the-taxes, is a statute of limitations, and does not deprive the former
owner of such lands of his prcperty without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.

THIS was an action of replevin, brought April 11, 1887, in
behalf of the State of New York by the forest commissioners
of the State. against Turner, in the Supreme Court of the
county of Franklin and State of New York, to recover a
quantity of logs cut by him upon lands in that county and
within the forest preserve of the State, between September 1,
1886, and March 25, 1887. The answer denied the allegations
of the complaint, and alleged that at the time mentioned
therein the defendant was the owner and in possession of
the lands.
The material facts of the case, as found by a referee, were
as follows: On October 12, 1877, the lands, being then owned
by one Norton, were sold by the comptroller of the State of
New York for unpaid taxes of the years from 1866 to 1870
inclusive, and were bid in by the comptroller in behalf of the
State, and conveyed by him to the State by deed dated June
9, 1881, and recorded June 8, 1882. The defendant, more
than nine years after that sale, acquired Norton's title in the
land. The land was wild forest land, uncultivated, unimproved, unenclosed, and with no dwelling house or other
building thereon. Neither the State nor any officer thereof
ever took actual possession of the land-; and no part of it was
in occupancy of any person on October 12, 1879, when the

TURNER v. NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

period of two years allowed by law for redemption from the
comptroller's sale expired.
At the trial before the referee, the defendant, in order to
prove the invalidity of the comptroller's deed by reason of
illegality in the assessment of the taxes for the years 1867
and 1870, offered to show that the oath of the assessors to the
assessment roll of 1867 was taken on August 10, instead of on
the third Tuesday of August; and that the assessors omitted
to meet on the third Tuesday of August, 1870, to review their
assessments for that year.
The plaintiff objected to the evidence as immaterial, because
the comptroller's deed was made conclusive evidence of those
matters by the statute of New York of 1885, c. 448, which is
copied in the margin.' The defendant contended that this
1 An Act to amend chapter four hundred and twenty-seven of the laws of

eighteen hundred and fifty-five, entitled " An act in relation to the collection of taxes on lands of non-residents and to provide for the sale of
such lands for unpaid taxes."
SECT. 1. Section sixty-five of chapter four hundred and twenty-seven of
the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-five, entitled " An act in relation to
the collection of 'taxes on lands of non-residents and to brovide for the
sale' of such lands for unpaid taxes," is hereby amended so as to read
as follows:
§ 65. Such conveyances shall be executed by the comptroller, under his
hand and seal, and the execution thereof shall be witnessed by the treasurer or deputy comptroller; and all such conveyances that have been heretofore executed by the comptroller, and all conveyances of the same land§ by
his grantee or grantees therein named, after having been recorded for two
years in the office of the clerk of the county in which the lands conveyed
thereby are located, and all outstanding certificates of a tax sale heretofore
held by the comptroller that shall have remained in force for two years
after the last day allowed by law to redeem from such sale shall, six
months after this act takes effect, be conclusive evidence that the sale and
all proceedings prior thereto, from and inclTding the assessment of the
land, and all notices required by law to be given previous to the expiration
of the two years allowed by law to redeem, were regular and were regularly given, published and served according to the provisions of this act,
and all laws directing or requiring the same or in any manner relating
thereto; and all other conveyances or certificates, heretofore or hereafter
executed or issued by the comptroller, shall be presumptive evidence of
the regularity of all the said proceedings and matters hereinbefore recited,
and shall be conclusive evidence thereof from and after the expiration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

statute was invalid as contrary to th'e first section of the Four-"
teenth Article of Amendmentto the Constitution of the United
States. But the referee sustained the plaintiff's objection to
the evidence, and directed judgment for the plaintiff, which
was accordingly rendered by the court, and affirmed by the
Court of Appeals. .145 N. Y. 451. The defendant sued out
this writ of error.
.r. FrankE. Smith for plaintiff in error. .Mr. Thomas F.
Conway was on his brief.
Mr1. T . Hancock, Attorney General of the State of New
York, and Mr1. William Henry .Dennis for defendant in error.
iR. JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
On May 15, 1885, the legislature of New York, by the statute of 1885, c. 283, declared that all the lands then owned or
thereafter acquired by the State of New York within certain
counties (one of which was Franklin county) should constitute
and be known as the forest preserve; and established a forest
commission of three persons, styled forest commissioners, to
"have the care, custody, control and superintendence of the
two years from the date of recording such other conveyances, or of four
years from and after the date of issuing such other certificates. But all
such conveyances and certificates and the taxes and tax sales on which they
are based shall be subject to cancellation, as now provided by law, on a
direct application to the comptroller, or an action brought before a competent court therefor, by reason of the legal payment of such taxes, or by
reason of the levying of such taxes by a town. or ward having no legal right
to assess the land on which they are laid.
SECT. 2. The provisions of this act are hereby made applicable only to
the following counties, viz. Clintlon, Delaware, Essex, Franklin, Fulton,
Greene, Hamilton, Herkimer, Lewis, Saratoga, St. Lawrence, Sullivan,
Ulster, Warren and Washington, but shall not affect any action, proceeding
or application pending at the time of its passage; nor any action that shall
be begun, proceeding taken or application duly made within six months
thereafter for the purpose of vacating any tax sale or any conveyance or
certificate of sale made thereunder.
SECT. 3. This act shall take effect immediately.

TURNER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

forest preserve," and "1to maintain and protect the forests now
in the forest preserve, and to promote as far-as practicable the
further growth of forests thereon;" and authorized them to
appoint a warden and other officers, and to exercise various
powers to carry out its object.
At the date of the passage of that statute, the time allowed
by law for the redemption of lands from sale by the comptroller for non-payment of taxes was two years from the time
of sale. New York Stat. 1855, c. 427, § 50.
On June 9, 1885, the legislature of the State passed the
statute of 1885, c. 448, to take immediate effect, which
provided that all conveyances, thereafter executed by the
comptroller, of lands, in the same counties, sold by him for
non-payment of taxes hnd having been recorded for two years
in the clerk's office of the county in which the lands lay,
should, "six months after this act, takes effect, be conclusive
evidence that the sale and all proceedings prior thereto, from
and including the assessment, of the land, and all notices required by law to be given previous to the expiration of the
two years allowed by law to redeem, were regular" and as
required by law; but that all such conveyances and the taxes,
and tax sales on which they were based, should "be subject
to cancellation, as now provided by law, on a direct application to the comptroller, or an action brought before a competent court therefor, by reason of the legal payment of
such taxes, or by reason of the levying of such taxes by a.
town or ward having no legal right to assess the land on
which they are laid."
The land now in question was sold by the comptroller to
the State October 12, 1877; the time allowed by law for
redeeming the land from that sale expired October 12, 1879;
the comptroller's deed to the State was made June 9, 1881,
and recorded June 8, 1882. It had therefore been on record
for three years when the statute of June 9, 1885, was passed
and took effect; and by the terms of this statute, on December
9, 1885, the comptroller's deed became conclusive evidence
that there was no irregularity in the assessment of any of the
taxes for non-payment of which the land had been sold and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyed to the State. This action was brought April 11,
1887.
The statute, according to its principal intent and effect, and
as construed by the Court of Appeals of the State, was a
statute of limitations. People v. Turner, 117 N. Y. 227;
Same v. Same, 145 N. Y. 451. It is well settled that a statute
shortening the period of limitation is within the constitutional
power of the legislature, provided a reasonable time, taking
into consideration the nature of the case, is allowed for bringing an action after the passage of the statute and before the
bar takes effect. Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, 632, 633;
- re J3rown, 135 U. S. 701, 705-707.
The statute now in question relates to land sold and conveyed to the State for non-payment of taxes; it applies to
those cases only in which the conveyance has been of record
for two years in the office where all conveyances of lands
within the county are recorded; and it does not bar any
action begun within six months after its passage. Independently of the consideration that before the passage of the statute the plaintiff had had eight years since the sale, and three
years since the recording of the deed, during which he might
have asserted his title, this court concurs with the highest
court of the State in the opinion that the limitation of six
months, as applied to a case of this kind, is not repugnant to
any provision of the Constitution of the United States.
It was argued in behalf of the plaintiff in error that the
statute was unconstitutional, because it did not allow him any
opportunity to assert his rights, even within six months after
its passage. But the statute did not take away any right of
action which he had before its passage, but merely limited
the time within which he might assert such a right. Within
the six months, he had every remedy which he would have
had before the passage of the statute. If he had no remedy
before, the statute took none away. From the judgments of
the Court of Appeals in the case at bar, and in the subsequent
case of People v. Roberts, 151 N: Y. 540, there would appear
to have been some difference of opinion in that court upon
the question whether his proper remedy was by direct appli-

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
Syllabus.

cation to the comptroller to cancel the sale, or by action of
ejectment against the comptroller or the forest commissioners.
But as that court has uniformly held that he had a remedy, it
is not for us to determine what that remedy was under the
local constitution and laws.
It was also argued"that the plaintiff in error was in possession of the land and could not be put to his action. But the
decision below that he was not in possession involved no
Federal question, or any other question of law, but a mere
inference of fact from the evidence, which this court is not
authorized to review on writ of error. Dower v. Riohard8,
151 U. S. 658; .Eganv. Hart, 165 U. S. 188.
Judgment affrmed.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
CERTIFIOATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEOOND CIRCUIT.
No. 85. Argued and submitted October 14, 189T. -Decided

October 25, 189T.

Where imported foreign goods are entered at a custom house for consumption, the payment by the importer of the full amount ot duties ascertained to be due upon the liquidation of the entry of the merchandise,
as well as the giving notice of dissatisfaction or protest, within ten
days after the liquidation of such duties, is not necessary in order to
enable a protesting importer to have the exaction and classification
reviewed by a board of general appraisers and by the courts, under the
provision in section 14 of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131,
137, "That the decision of the collector as to the rate and amount of
duties chargeable upon imported merchandise, including all dutiable
costs and charges, and as to all fees and exactions of whatever character (except duties on tonnage), shall be final and conclusive against all
persons interested therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee, or
agent of such merchandise, or the person paying such fees, charges, and
exactions other than duties, shall within ten days after, Ibut not
before,' such ascertainment and liquidation of duties, as well in cases of
merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, or within ten days
after the payment of such fees, charges and exactions, if dissatisfied
with such decision, give notice in writing to the collector, setting forth
therein distinctly and specifically, and in respect to each entry or pay-

