OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the Victory was wholly to blame and that the Plymothian
was free from fault.
-Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, the costs
of that court to be equally divided between the owners of
the Victory and the underwriters; decree of the 1)istrict
Court afflrmed; costs in this court for preparing and
printing the record to be paid by the owners of the Vietoiwy, all other costs in this court to be divided equdlly
between the owners of the Victory and the underwriters.

MUSE v. ARLINGTON, HOTEL COMPAI-TY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS;
No. 59. Argued October 26, 27, 189T.-Decided December 6, 1897.

A case may be said to involve the cobistruction or application of the Constitutiofi of the United States when a title, right, privilege or immunity
'is claimed under that inptrument; but a definite issue in respect to the
possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the record,
before the judgment of the court below can be -revised on the ground of
error in the disposal of such a claim by its decision.
The same rule being applicable in respect of the validity or construction of
treaty, some right, title, privilege or immunity, dependent on the treaty,
must be so set up or-claimed as to require the Circuit Court to pass on the
question of validity or construction in disposing of the right asserted.
In respect of the, plaintiff's case as stated in their complaint, the Circuit
Court decided no question as to the application or construction of the
Constitution, or the validity or construction of the' treaty, and this
court is 'withont jurisdiction to review the action of that court.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
Margaret A. Muse and others filed their original complaint
in ejectment against the Arlington: Hotel Company, July 25,
1894, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the EasterEj
District of Arkansasto which defendant demurred. Pending
the demurrer, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, in which
they averred that defendant was "a corporation organized

MUSE v. ARLINGTON HOTEL COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

under the laws of the State of Arkansas and doing business
at the city of Hot Springs in that State"; and that plaintiffs, except "Alice F. South, who is a citizen and resident of
Coahuila, Mexico," were all citizens and residents of the United
States, some of Louisiana, some of Texas, some of Mississippi,
and one of Illinois.
That they are the only heirs at law of Don Juan Filhiol,
who died intestate, a citizen of Louisiana, in 1821; and that
they are the owners in fee simple of a league of land described
in the complaint.
Plaintiffs alleged that Filhiol was born in France in 1740;
that he left "thatcountry in 1763, going to San Domingo, and
thence to Philadelphia in 1779, and finally arrived in New
Orleans in May of that year, where he joined the volunteers
in the war between Spain and England; that in 1783 he was
appointed by the King of Spain captain of the army and commandant of the militia and assigned to duty at the post of
Ouachita in Louisiana, under instructions from Don Estevan
Miro, the governor general of that province.
That, on December 12, 1787, Filhiol memorialized the governor of Lodisiana and West Florida for a grant of land,
whereon the governor ordered a survey of the land applied
for, and that before February 22, 1788, Don Carlos Trudeau,
the then surveyor general of Louisiana, made a survey in
accordance *ith the law as it then existed, and made a report
thereof, with figurative plan, and proc~s verbal in due form,
in and by which the land was described; that the survey,
figurative plan and procs verbal have been lost or destroyed,
and plaintiffs could not produce them, but they alleged that
on February 22, 1788, Miro, as governor,'made and delivered
to Filhiol a grant for a certain league of land, the description
of which was set forth in the complaint; that the grant was
made while Filhiol was acting as commandant of the post of
Ouachita, as a reward for his civil and military services in his
position as commandant; and that Miro,.as governor, wvas by
the Spanish colonial laws vested with power to make grants
of land and to convey by such grants the absolute fee simple
to the lands grapted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the. Case.

Plaintiffs further averred that the land granted by Miro to
Filhiol consisted of a certain one square league with the hot
springs at the city of Hot Springs as its cefitre, the description, metes and bounds of which league were more accurately
described in the survey, figurative plan and procs verbal;
and, setting forth a translation of the grant, plaintiffs stated
that after the delivery of the grant to Filhiol, December 6,
1788, Trudeau, who was then public and private surveyor of
Louisiana, made and delivered to Filbiol a certificate of measurement of the land, a translation of which was also given;
that the making and delivery of this certificate was a delivery
of the judicial possession of the land, and had the force and
effect of segregating it from the public domain, and that the
grant vested full and complete title in the grantee.
It was further alleged that Filhiol sold and conveyed the
land, November 25, 1803, to his son in law, Bourgeat, passing
the deed before the military and civil commandant of Ouachita, the deed being witnessed by two witnesses, who signed
the act in the presence of two others, and a copy of which
was set out; that the deed was immediately reported to the
proper office of Louisiana and was afterwards duly recorded;
that Bourgeat retroceded the same lands to Filhiol by deed
passed before the judge of the parish of Pointe Coupee, July
17, 1806; that this deed (a copy of which was given) was duly
filed and recorded; and that Filhiol never thereafter parted.
with his title to the land. And plaintiffs alleged that when
these deeds were made, the Spanish colonial law forbade any
public officer having authority to receive acknowledgments
and pass deeds for the conveyance of lands, to pass such deeds
or receive acknowledgments thereof, unless they knew that
the vendor had title to the lands proposed to be sold.
Plaintiffs also averred that in 1819, Filbiol leased the Hot
Springs to one Dr. Wilson for five years; that shortly thereafter, in 1821, Filhiol died; and that ever since his death,
plaintiffs had always urged their title to the property, and
employed agents and attorneys to do so for them, and that
during a large part of this time they-had been embarrassed
by the want of the original grant, which had been mislaid;

MUSE v. ARLINGTON HOTEL COMPANY.

433

Statement of the Case.

that often and repeated searches were made by plaintiffs for
it but without success, but that lately, in 1883, the grant had
been found.
The complaint continued: "Said plaintiffs state that they
claim title to said league of land so granted by said Estevan
Miro, as governor of said province, to the said Juan Filhiol,
as the heirs at law of said Juan Filhiol, and they state that
they will rely upon the following written evidences of their
title for the maintenance of this action :
"First. On the grant made by Don Estevan Mito, as governor of the province of Louisiana, on February 22d, 1788, to
Don Juan Filhiol, a translation of which grant is filed herewith, marked ' Exhibit A,' and made part hereof.
"Second. On the certificate of measurement or slurvey
made by Carlos Trudeau, surveyor of the province of Louisiana, on December 6, 1788, and delivered by him on that date
to Don Juan Filhiol, a translation of which, marked 'Exhibit
B,' is filed herewith and made part hereof.
"Third. On the deed of said land made by Don Juan Filhiol to Karcisso Bourgeat on November 25, 1803, a translation
of which is herewith filed, marked ' Exhibit C,' and made part
hereof.
"Fourth. On the deed or retrocessi6n of said land made by
Karcisso Bourgeat to Don Juan Filhiol on the 17th of July,
1806, a translation of which deed of retrocession is herewith
filed, marked 'Exhibit D,' and made part hereof.
"Fifth. On the 3d article of the treaty between the
United States of America and the French Republic of April
30, 1803, which was ratified on the 21st of October, 1803.
"Sixth. On the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States."
And plaintiffs then alleged that defendant was in the unlawful possession of part of the land, "which portion is
included in the Hot Springs Mountain reservation, in th~e city
of 'Hot Springs, county of Garland, State of Arkansas, the
boundary lines of which reservation were established by the
Hot Springs Commission. by public surveys in pursuance of
the laws of the United States; " and this was followed by a
VOL. cLxWu-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court..

particular description of the land so alleged to be unlawfully
possessed.
Plaintiffs charged that defendant had been in such unlawful
possession since the third day of March, 1892, during all of
which time plaintiffs had title to and the right of possession
of .said land; and alleged that by reason of such wrongful
possession they had been daipaged in the sui of twenty
thousand dollars; and prayed judgment for possession and
damages. To this amended complaint defendant demurred,
and also filed an answer and exceptions.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and exceptions,
and entered judgment dismissing the complaint with costs,
whereupon this writ of error was sued out directly to that
court.
The Circuit Court, Williams, J.- held, 68 Fed. Rep. 637,
that the alleged granting papers were ineffectual to perfect
title, because there was no showing that the acts required by
law to be performed, to wit, the making of an actual survey
on the ground; the certification ana approval of the same;
and the delivery of possession, bad ever been performed; that
the claim was barred under the act of Congress of May 26,
1824, c. 173, 4 Stat. 52, entitled an act "enablin g the claimants to lands within the limits of the State of Missouri and
Territory of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the
validity of their claims," and by the act of Congress known
as the Hot Springs Act of Junb 11, 1870, c. 126, 16 Stat. 149;
that the claim, if originally valid, must be considered as having been abandoned; and that plaintiffs were estopped from
claiming title to the land under the facts disclosed.
.ir. John G. Carlisle for plaintiffs in error.
Carlisle was on his brief.
.M'. G. B. Rose for defendant in error.
was-on his brief.
Mit. CHIEF

JUSTi.E

-Mr.Logan

-Mr. U. ff. Rose

FuLmm, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.

MUSE v. ARLINGTOGN HOTEL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Writs of error may be sued out directly from this court to
the Circuit Courts in cases, among others, in which the construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States is involved; or in which the validity or construction of
any treaty made under the authority of the United States is
drawn in question. Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5, 26 Stat.
826. If this case does not fall within one or both of these
classes, 'this writ of error cannot be maintained.
As ruled in Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 695, 697,
"a case may be said to involve the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States when a title, right,
privilege or imhunity is claimed under that instrument, but
a definife issue in respect to the possession of the right must
be distinctly deducible from the record before the judgment
of the court below can be revised on the ground of error in
the disposal of such a claim by its decision." Green v. Cornell,
163 U. S. 75, 78.
The same rule is applicable in respect of the validity or construction of a treaty. Some right, title, privilege or immunity
dependent on the treaty must be so set up or claimed as to
require the Circuit Court to pass on the question of validity
or construction in 'disposing of the right asserted. Borgmeyer
v. Idler, 159-U. S. 408.
The general doctrine has been frequently announced in
cases involving the jurisdiction of this court under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789;
section 709 of the Revised Statutes; and acts .relating to the
revision of judgments of the Supreme Court and Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia and the Supreme Courts'
of the Territories, as well as in cases involving the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Courts. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v.
Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, and cases cited; United States v.
Lynch, 137 U. S. 280 ; South Carolinav. Seymour, 153 U. S.
353; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411; Iinford v.
Ellison),155 U. S. 503*; Dutrh]am v. Seymour, 161 U. S. 235;
Hanford v: Davies, 163 U. S. 273; Oxley Stave Company v.
Butler County, 166 U. S. 648.

The amended complaint stated that plaintiffs would "rely

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the following written evidences of their title for the
maintenance of this action," and enumerated, among them,
"the 3d article of the treaty between the United States of
America and the French Republic of April 30, 1803, which
was ratified on the 21st of October, 1803," 8 Stat. 200; and
"the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States;" but nowhere was any right, title, privilege or immunity asserted to be derived from either Constitution or
treaty. There was nothing to indicate in what way, if any,
the cause of action was claimed to arise from either.
The Fifth Amendment prohibits the deprivation of property
without due process of law, and the taking of private property
for public use without compensation. The treaty of cession,
Public Treaties, 332, provided for the protection of the inhabitants of the territory ceded in the enjoyment of their
property. But neither amendment nor treaty gave what
was not already possessed.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked on the
ground of diverse citizenship and not on the ground that
the case arose "under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made under their
authority." Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, ยง 1; 25 Stat. 433.
And it is settled that in order to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of a case as so arising, that it does so arise must
appear from the plaintiff's own statement of his claim. Colo,
Tado Central Jhliaing Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; Press Publishing Co. v. _lfonroe, 161 U. S. 105.
If this case had been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the decision of that court would have been final under the
sixth section of the statute, and it might well be concluded
that therefore the writ of error -would not lie under the fifth
section.
In respect of plaintiffs' case as stated in their complaint,
the Circuit Court decided no question as to the application
or construction of the Constitution or the validity or construction of the treaty.
The ground, among other grounds,- in defeat of plaintiffs'
action, that the claim was barred by the act of June 11, 1870,

THE RESOLUTE.
Syllabus.

was indeed sustained, but that was as matter of construction,
and the constitutionality of the act if held to apply to the
claim, rather than to the amenability of the United States
to suit, was not considered; nor does it appear that the judgment of the Circuit Court was invoked upon it. In this court
it was contended for plaintiffs in error that the act was an
enabling act authorizing suits to be brought against the United
States, which otherwise could not have been maintained; that
the limitation operated on the jurisdiction and not on the right;
and that to bar title if suit were not brought within ninety
days was so unreasonable that the intention to do so could
not be imputed to Congress.
These forcible suggestions
would undoubtedly have been accorded due weight by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but we are unable to deal with
them on this writ.
The Circuit Court also held that plaintiffs' title failed because of non-compliance with the Spanish law. It was not
pretended that the treaty, the validity of which was confessedly not in dispute, could be so construed as to compel
judicial recognition of unconsummated claims, and it was for
the Circuit Court to determine into what category the alleged
grant fell. In doing so, the construction of the treaty was
not drawn in question in any manner.
Wr'it of error dirissed.

MR. sJUSTIOE
HARLAw and MR. JusTicE WHrT dissented.

THE RESOLUTE, DOWSETT, Libellant.
THE RESOLUTE, WILSON, Libellant.
APPEA.LS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 135, 136. SubmItted November 12, 189T.-Decided December 6, 1897.

A District Court of the United States has jurisdiction of a libel of a vessel
for seamen's wages, which, accrued while the vessel was in the custody
of a receiver appointed by a state court upon the foreclosure of a mort-

