In re TAMTA SUBURBAN RAILROAD COMPANY.

583

Statement of the Case.

bound to accept the deed tendered by the plaintiffs; and as
it appears that the plaintiffs cannot make such a title as they
agreed to give; as the cash payment was made upon the basis
of a good and indefeasible title in the plaintiffs, the defendants
were entitled upon their cross-complaint, framed in accordance
with the established modes of procedure in the Territory, to
have a decree which, in effect, rescinds the contract, and gives
them back what they paid,

Affirmed.

In

re TAMPA SUBURBAN

RAILROAD COMPANY.

ORIGINAL.
No number. Argued November 29, 197. - Decided December 20, 189T.

A writ of certiorari, such as is asked for in this case, will be refused when
there is a plain and adequate remedy, by appeal or otherwise.
Where, as in this case, an order i made by a Circuit Court, appointing a
receiver, and granting an injunction against interfering with his management of the property confided to him, an appeal may be taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, carrying up the entire order.
By denying the application in this case for a certiorari, the Court must not
be understood as intimating an opinion that a. Circuit Judge has power
to grant injunctions, appoint receivers, or enter orders or decrees, in invitum, outside of his circuit.
THE Consumers Electric Light and Street Railroad Company of Tampa executed a mortgage to the Central Trust
Company of New York, July 1, 1895, to secure an issue of
bonds amounting to $350,000 upon all the property of the
company, including its street railways, franchises and leases,
and, among other things, all its rights under a lease from the
Tampa Suburban Railroad Company, made or to be made,
and covering all the property of the latter.
On July 22, 1897, the Trust Company presented its bill of
complaint against the Consumers and Suburban Companies
for the foreclosure of its mortgage on an alleged default in the
payment of interest due July 1, 1897, to "one of the Circuit

584:

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Judges for the Fifth Judicial Circuit, at the town of Wadsworth, in the State of Ohio, and made application thereon
for the appointnent of a receiver. It was admitted that
this application was made ex parte, but claimed that one
Chapin, president of the companies, consented thereto. The
Circuit Judge thereupon, on that day, granted an order taking
jurisdiction; directing that cause be shown at Tampa, in the
Slate of Florida, August 4, 1897, why a receiver should not
be appointed; and in the meantime restraining defendants
from interfering with or disposing of the mortgaged property.
This order was transmitted to b6 entered as of July 22, 1897,
in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Florida, and
was so entered, and the bill filed as of that date. Notice was
then given to defendants that, on the bill of complaint and
the affidavit of Chester W. Chapin, complainant would apply
to said Judge of the Circuit Court "at his chambers at Wadswoith, Mledina County, Ohio, on the third day. of August,
1897, for an order appointing a temporary receiver." On that
day counsel for'the Trust Company and counsel for defendants appeared before the Circuit Judge at Wadsworth, Ohio;
but counsel for the Suburban Company objected to the jurisdiction and authority of the Circuit Judge to make or enter
any order or decree outside the territorial limits of the Fifth
Judicial Circuit of the United States, in which the suit was
pending. These objections were overruled and an amendment
and supplement to the bill of complaint were then presented to
the Circuit Judge, together with a 'number of affidavits on
behalf of complainant, to which the Suburban Company objected, on various grounds, which objedtions were overruled.
Thereupon the Suburban Company filed an answer to the
original bill of complaint and certain'affidavits and documents.
Argument was then had and an order signed by the Circuit
Judge at Wadsworth, Ohio, on the third day of August, 1897,
which, after, appointing Chester .W. Chapin receiver, and
directing him to take immediate possession "of all and singular the property above described, wherever situated and found,
and 'to continue the operation of the railway and 'plant of the
defendant companies and conduct systematically their business

In re TAMPA SUBURBAN RAILROAD COMPANY;

585

Statement of the Case.

in the same manner as at present, and discharge all the public
duties obligatory upon the defendants or either of them;"
thus continued:
"Each and every of the officers, directors, agents, and
employ~s of the said defendants or either of them are hereby
required and commnded forthwith, upon demand of the said
receiver or his duly authorized agent, to turn over and deliver
to the said receiver or his duly constituted representative all
the property of the defendant companies above mentioned,
and all books of accounts, vouchers, papers, deeds, leases,.
contracts, bills, notes, accounts, moneys, and other property
in his or their hands or under his or their control, and each
and every of such directors, officers, agents, and employ6s arehereby commanded and required to obey and conform to such
orders as may be given to them from time to time by said receiver or his duly constituted representative in conducting the
operation of the said property and in discharging his duty as
receiver, and each and every of such officers, directors, agents,
and employ~s of the defendant companies or either of them
are hereby enjoined from interfering in any manner whatever
with the possession or management of any part of the property over which the receiver is hereby appointed, or from interfering in any way to prevent the discharge of the duties of
such receiver."
The receiver was then authorized by the order to operate the
street railway system and other property, with the, usual provisions in that regard, being required to give bond to be
approved by the clerk of the court or by a judge thereof,
conditioned for the proper discharge of his duties. The order"
concluded: "And it is further ordered that the original and
supplemental bills in this cause, and all exhibits, affidavits
and other papers filed therein, be transferred to and filed in
the clerk's office, 4t Tampa, Florida, at which place all process
shall be returnable."
This order was transmitted by the Circuit Judge by letter
from Wadsworth, Ohio, under date August 4, 1897, to the
clerk of the Circuit Court at Jacksonville, with directions to
file it, which letter informed the clerk that the Circuit Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

had sent by express to him "supplemental bill and numerous
affidavits offered by counsel, which, on receipt, also file, of
same date as order appointing receiver. Attached to the
order appointing receiver I have appended an order directing
the original bill and all the affidavits and exhibits filed to be
transferred to .the clerk's, office at Tampa."
The Tampa Suburban Railroad Compaiy presented its petiti6n to this court for a writ of certiorari directed to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Florida to remove
the. proceedings in. question for review, and on the application
to file the petition, a rule to show cause was granted, to which
return has been made.
The . petition set forth in detail the matters above stated, in
brief, with others, and insisted that the orders made by the
Circuit Judge in the State of Ohio were void for want of
jurisdiction; that the mortgage of the Consumers Company
wag invalid for not having been properly executed, as required
by the statutes of Florida; that foreclsure was prematurely
sought because the default in the payment of interest had not
been continued for sixty days, contended to be a condition
provided in the mortgage; that the original bill and exhibits
were not before the Circuit Judge when the order of August
third was granted;- that the Circuit Judge improperly considered the amended bill and accompanying affidavits when
notice thereof had not been given; that the restraining order
was not limited in duration; and that there was no proof of
danger of irreparable damage -by delay. It was admitted
that on the 22d of July and until and long after the 3d of
August, the: District Judge for the Southern District of
Florida and both Circuit Judges and the Circuit Justice
were absent from the Fifth Judicial Circuit, and petitioner
charged that it had filed in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Florida motions to discharge, annul and. set
aside the orders of July twenty-second and August third; but
that the motions had remained undisposed of up to October
ninth, when the.petition was verified, because there was no
judge of the United States courts within that circuit who had
authority to hear and determine the same.

In re TAMPA SUBURBAN

RAILROAD COMPATY.

587

Opinion of the Court.
.Mr. Noah Brooks Hent Pettingill for petitioner.
Thomas .Mitchell Shackleford was.on his brief.
Mr. Adrian E. Joline opposing.
was on his brief.

Mr.

Mr. Henry TV. Calhoun

Mn. C=In JusTion FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
By section 716 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that:
"The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District Courts
shall have power to issue writs of sairefacias. They shall
also have power to issue all writs not specifically provided for
by statute, which may be necessary for the exerdise of their
respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
This undoubtedly authorized the issue of
writs of certiorari in all proper cases. American Construction
Co. v. Jacksonville, Tama &c. Railway, 148 U. S.372, 380.
In the case of In re Chetwood, 165 -U. S. 443, 461, we
allowed the writ to bring up for review certain final orders
of the Circuit Court, which interfered with causes pending in
this court ; and the question of the issue of the writ by this
court in the exercise of its inherent general powers, under the
Constitution, did not arise.
By this application the review of two interlocutory orders
is sought, the one, a preliminary restraining order, and the
other appointing a receiver and continuing the injunction in
aid of the receivership, on the ground that both these orders
were void for want of power. in the Circuit Judge to grant
them outside of his circuit.
That this presents a question of grave importance is obvious,
but it is objected that the application cannot be entertained
because the appellate jurisdiction of this court can only be
exercised in respect of final judgments or decrees, and, also,
because there is another adequate remedy. We need not consider the first of these objections, as the second is sufficient to
dispose of the application.
When sought as between private persons, the general rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

is that the writ of certiorari, such as asked here, will be granted

or denied, in the sound discretion of the court, on special cause
or ground shown; and will be refused where there is a plain
.and equally adequate remedy by appeal or otherwise.
By the seventh section of the Judiciary Act of .March 3,
1891, c.. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, as amended by the act of
February 18, 1895, c. 96, 28 Stat. 666, it is provided: "That
where, upon a hearing in equity, in a District Court or a Circuit
Court, an injunction shall be granted, continued, refused or
dissolved by an-interlocutory order or decree or an application
to dissolve an injunction shall be refused in a case in which an
appeal from a final decree may be taken under the provisions
of this act.to the Circuit Court of Appeals, an appeal may be
taken from such interlocutory order or decree granting, continuing, refusing, dissolving or refusing to dissolve an injunction to the Circuit Court of Appeals."
The suit in which the orders complained of were entered is
one in which an appeal from a final decree might be taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and this even though the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was involved.
United States -v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109. An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals'might, therefore, have been taken from
these orders or from an order refusing to set them aside and
dissolve the injunction. We are not called on to say that an
appeal would lie from an order simply appointing a receiver,
but where the order also grants .an injunction, the appeal provided for may be taken, and carries up the entire order, and
the case may, indeed, on occasion, be considered and decided
on.its merits. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Worlks,.165 U. S. 518.
The application for leave to file this petition must, therefore,
be denied; but we must not bo understood as intimating an
opinion that a Circuit Judge has power to grant injunctions,
appoint receivers or enter orders or decrees, in invitum, outside of his circuit.
Leave denied.

