OCTOBER TERM, 189T.
Opinion of the Court.

CASTILLO v. McOONNICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 48. Argued October 19, 20, 1897. -Decded

January 8, 1898.

This action was brought and prosecuted to final judgment in the state
'courts of Louisiana. Its object was to recover land in New Orleans
which had been sold for nonpayment of taxes and had passed from the
purchaser at the tax sale by sundry mesne conveyances to the defendant.
The grounds on which itwas sought to avoid the sale were alleged defects in the statement of the name and of the sex of the owner in the
advertisements of sale. The judgment of the trial court was in favor of
the defendant, and that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. Touching the objec.tions made to the proceedings the latter
court said: "The act of 1884 makes the deed conclusive of the sufficiency
of the assessment of the property sold und6r it. The question of the
competency of 'this legislation in this respect has been before this
court on repeated occasions. The argdment now addressed to us
against the constitutionality and interpretation of the act must be viewed
as directed against a series of decisions of this court. To those decisions we must adhere."
It was claimed in argument here that though
no Federal question was directly raised in the trial in the state court,
one was necessarily involved in the decision. Held, that this court had
no jurisdiction to review the decision of the Supreme Court of the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.iXr. William Winans Wall for plaintiff in error.
Watt was on his brief.

-Mr. John

-ir. J. Zach. Spearing for defendant in error., Tr,.Richard
Henry Lea and XrM.Thomas Hf. Thorpe fileda brief for same.

XR. JusTioF, W rrE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in -error, who was plaintiff in the trial court
and appellant in the Supreme Court bf Louisiana, prosecutes
this writ of. error to the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, affirming a decision of the trial court. The suit
was commenced in the Civil District Court of the parish of

CASTILLO v. McCONNICO.
Opinion of the Court.

Orleans to recover a square of ground situated in the city of
New 'Orleans, the proceeding being known under the Louisiana code as a petitory action. La. C. P., Art. 43 et seq. The
petition alleged the ownership by the plaintiff of the square
of ground, and averred that the defendant McConnico was
in possession and claiming title thereto. It alleged that the
source from which the defendant asserted his title to have
been deraigned was a tax sale made by a state tax, collector
in November, 1885, to enforce delinquent state taxes for the
years 1876, 1877 and 1878, at which sale Orloff Lake was the
purchaser. It was averred that Lake sold the property, thus
bought by him, in December, 1885, to one Lallance, who, in
January, 1891, sold it, to Lang; that he in turn sold, in February, 1892, to Fitzpatrick and Reese, each in equal undivided
proportions, and that each of them in 1893 and 1894: respectively conveyed their undivided interest to* the defendant
McConnico. The petition charged that the tax sale, upon
which the title of the defendant rested, was absolutely void,
because, although the property belonged to the petitioner,
whoge name was Rafael Maria Del Castillo, the taxes thereon
for the years 1876, 1877 and 1878, to enforce the payment of
which the tax sale had been made, were assessed in the name
of R. Castillo. It was also alleged that the tax sale wgs void
because, in the advertisement which preceded it and which was
made -by the Louisiana law a prerequisite to a valid sale, the
property was described as belonging to Rafael Maria Del Castillo, or her estate and heirs ; that, as petitioner was-d male person, the adding to the name the words "or her estate and heirs"
caused the advertisement to be nothing worth and the sale
thereunder to be null. The various acts of sale in the chain
of title, from Lake, the purbhaser, at the tax sale, to the defendant Mc~onnico, were referred to in the petition, which
prayed that not only the tax sale, but all these various transfers between the several parties, be declared to be void and
the petitioner be recognized as the owner of the property and
entitled to the possession thereof.
McConnico the defendant by answer asserted the validity
of his title and called his vendor in warranty, who in turn by

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

answer became a defendant in the cause, set up the validity
of his title and called his vendor in warranty, and so on down
to and including Lallance, the transferee from Lake who
bought At the tax sale. All the defendants who were called
in warranty. averred that they were purchasers in good faith
for adequate value, one alleging that after contracting to buy
the property from his vendor he became doubtful about the
validity of the tax sale, and had declined to carry out his contract, and that in a suit brought against him to compel com.pliance, a final decree had passed between himself and his
vendor adjudging the title to be valid and compelling him to
become the purchaser under his agreement, the price paid
being the full value of the property. Another of the defend-.
ants averred that after his purchase of the property, finding
that it had been forfeited to the State of Louisiana for taxes
due by Castillo subsequent to the years to enforce which the
tax sale had been made, he had paid the sum of -the taxes,
and thus held the property, not only under the tax sale, but
under the title which the State of Louisiana had acquired by
forfeiting the property, and which enured to his benefit in
consequence of his having-made the redemption. One of the
defendants, McConnico, specifically pleaded by way of exception the conclusive presumptions created by Act -No. 82 of
1884, as debarring the court from considering the errors in the
assessment and sale which were alleged in the petition. Two
of the other defendants, reserving the defences set up in their
respective answers, excepted on the ground of no cause of
action. The Act No. 82 of 1884, which was necessarily
pleaded by McConnico's exception, and the consideration of
which was also presented by the exceptions of no cause of
action filed by the two other defendants, was substantially as
follows: It made it the duty of the tax collkctors to advertise
for sale at public auction "all property on which there remained unpaid taxes due to the State prior to December 31,
1879." It provided for thirty days' advertisement, and directed the tax collectors, where property was bought at a tax
sale, to make a deed thereof to the purchaser, and the deed
thus to be made, the statute said, "shall be yrima facie evi-

CASTILLO v. McCOINNICO.
Opinion of the Court.

dence of the following facts: 1st. That .the property conveyed was subject to taxation; 2d. That none of the taxes
for which said property was offered were paid, and said deed
s8all be conclusive evidence of the following facts: 1st. That
the property was assessed according to law; 2d. That the
taxes were levied according to law; 3d. That the property
was advertised according to law; 4th. That the property was
adjudicated and sold as stated in said deed; and, 5th. That
all the prerequisites of the law were complied with by all the
officers from the assessment up to and including the execution and registry of the deed to said purchaser; and duly
certified copies of said deeds shall be full proof without further
evidence of all contained therein." Louisiana Acts of 1884,
p. 104.
The trial court heard the exceptions separately from the
merits and overruled them. The case was subsequently tried
and judgment was rendered in favor of the defendants rejecting the demand of the plaintiff. This judgment was, on.
appeal, affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. Castillo v. .MeConnico, 47 La. Ann. 1473, 1475. The
court in its opinion, which is a part of the record in this cause,
Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188, 189, after deciding that the tax
sale in question was authorized by the state statute, said:
"It is argued on behalf of the plaintiff that the property
was not properly assessed for taxes prior to 1879, because the
assessment was in the name of R. Castillo instead of Rafael
Maria Del Castillo. We are relieved of the necessity of passing on the question of the sufficiency of this assessment. The
act of 1884 makes the deed conclusive of the sufficiency of
the assessment of the property sold under it. The question
of the competency of this legislation in this respect has been
before this court on repeated occasions. The argument now
addressed to us against the constitutionality and interpretation of the act must be viewed as directed against a series of
decisions of this court. To those decisions we must adhere
and hold the act precludes the inquiry. In the matter of
Orlof .ake, 40 La. Ann. 142; In re Douglas, 41 La. Ann. 765;
Breaux v. Negrotto, Jr., 43 La. Ann. 426 et seq."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
.Opinion of the Court.

Referring to the thirty days' advertisement which preceded
the tax sale, the court said: "In this case the advertisement
gave the full name of plaintiff, adding her estate or heirs. In
our view the advertisement conformed to the requirement of
the act."
The defendant in error asserts that we have no jurisdiction
to review the decision of the state court because no Federal
question appears by the record to have been raised either in
the trial court or in the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and because no question of that nature was decided in either of these
courts, or if a Federal controversy was passed upon by the
Supreme Court of the State, the decree of that couit is sufficiently sustained, apart from any Federal question which
may have been referred to in the opinion. To, the contrary,
the'plaintiff in error contends that a Federal question was
necessarily involved in and was passed on by the decision
below, and that the issue so determined was there duly presented for consideration. The first of these propositions is
thus evolved. The defects asserted to exist in the tax assess.ment and sale were, it is claimed, so radical in their nature
that they would, if they had been considered, have caused the
assessment and sale to amount to a denial of due process of
law under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. From this premise is deduced the conclusion that the action of the state Supreme Court in refusing
to consider the proof as to the existence of the defects was
equivalent to taking"property without due process of law. In
other words, the argument is that the. decision below, in
effect, held that by virtue of the presumption engendered by
the Louisiana act of 1884, and arising from the tax collector's
deed, the plaintiff was estopped from claiming his property,
even although there had been no assessment and no sale at
all. W hilst it is conceded that the Federal question which is
thus asserted to be necessarily involved in and embraced by
the, decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, does not
appear to have been raised on the record either in the trial
court or the Supreme Court, this fact is claimed to be immaterial. The system of practice prevailing in Louisiana, it- is

CASTILLO v. McCONICO.

679

Opinion of the Court.

argued, rendered it impossible to place the Federal question
on the record in the strict sense of the word, and caised it to

be possible only to present such issue by means of the brief of
counsel filed in the Supreme Court of the State befbre the
hearing. This brief, duly certified by the clerk of the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, has been presented,
and it is argued that, in view of the system of practice. obtaining in the State of Louisiana, this court may look to the brief
as a legitimate source of information, and Stewart v. Zahn,
11 Wall. 493, is relied on as supporting this proposition.
To decide the issue as to jurisdiction, we will at tlie outset
ascertain whether a Federal que.stion was necessarily involved
in the decision of the state Supreme Court. Even though
it be that a Federal controversy was decided, nevertheless
if the questions of a purely state character, upon'which the
Supreme Court of Louisiana passed, are completely adequate
to sustain the decree by that court rendered, wholly independent of the Federal question, it will result that no Federal
issue is presented for review. Egan v. 'art, 165 U. S. 188,
191; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150'U. S. 433, 441, and
authorities referred to in both of the foregoing cases. And if
this conclusion be reached it will be unnecessary to consider
whether, under the practice which prevails in Louisiana; the
Federal question could have been presented in any other
mode than by brief of counsel, and whether this fact would
authorize this court to go beyond the technical *record and
look to suich brief to aid in determining whether the Federal
issue was duly set up and claimed.
Because the court below applied the statutory presumption
of correctness arising from the tax collector's'deed, and refused
to consider the.alleged defects in the assessment and sale, it
does not follow that, if the presumption had not been applied and the alleged imperfections in the assessment had been
given their full weight, want of due process of law would have
tesulted from maintaining the sufficiency of the assessment and
from upholding the validity of the tax sale. It follows that,
in order to ascertain whether a Federal question was necessarily involved in the decision of -the lower court, we are con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court

pelled to determine whether the vices asserted to exist in the
assessment and sale were of such a nature as to cause the enforcement of the assessment and sale to deprive the plaintiff
*in error of his property without due process of law. The contention -advanced in argument onthis subject is much broader
*than the case justifies; ,thus it is said, the, state statute directs
that from a tax collector's deed a conclusive presumption of a
previous assessment shall be deduced, hence the statute in
terms is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment since it
takes property under a tax sale, although no assessment whatever had ever been levied on the property so taken. But, as
thus stated, the proposition presents a purely, moot question.
The plaintiff in error has no interest to assert that the stat*ute is unconstitutional because it might be construed so as
to cause it to violate the Constitution. His right is limited
solely to the inquiry whether in the case which he presents
the'effect of applying the statute is to deprive him of his
property without due process of law.
We come, then, to consider whether the alleged defects in
the assessment and in the advertisement were of such a nature
as to cause the enforcement of the one and the upholding of
the other to so operat6 as to deprive the plaintiff of his property without due process of law. The error in the advertisement was that, although the publication gave the full name
Rafael Maria Del Castillo, it was accompanied with the addition "or her estate, and heirs," and the alleged defect in the
assessment was that the property was assessed in the name of
R. Castillo, when the real name of the owner was Rafael Maria
Del Castillo. The decision of the state court that the advertisement was sufficient unde*r the Louisiana statute involved purely
a state question, which we accept and follow. Conceding
that a sale to enforce taxes made without notice, actual or
constructive, would be a want of due process of law, it is yet
obvious that the publication for thirty days required by the
state law was sufficient notice to constitute due process of law,
and that the mere fact that there was affixed to the name
inserted in the advertisement -the words "or her estate and
heirs" did not destroy the efficacy of the advertisement, and

CASTILLO v. McCONNICO.
Opinion of the Court.

did not cause it to be, in legal contemplation, no notice whatever. The contrary proposition could only be supported upon
the theory that, although a complete description of the property and the full name of the owner were inserted in the advertisement, the mere addition of the words referred to were
so calculated to deceive and mislead as to render the notice
legally inoperative. But such assumption would be to the
last degree technical and unreasonable, and cannot be indulged
in.
We dismiss, then, from view the alleged defects in the
advertisement, and will consider the assessment. In doing so
we will take notice of, and give full effect to, the fact that
the name placed on the assessment roll was R. Castillo instead
of Rafael Maria Del Castillo, which was the full name of the
owner of the property assessed. Although the law of Louisiana under which the assessments in. question were made provided for the placing of the.name of the owner on the assessment roll where such name was known, it also directed that
the property assessed should be described in the assessment
roll. The statutes, moreover, expressly fixed a time when
the assessment rolls should be exposed for examination and
correction, and furnished ample opportunity, not only for revision as to valuation, but also for judicial correction of any
legal error which might be asserted to exist in the assessment.
The notice required by the statute to be given of the opening
of the assessment rolls for inspection and revision was not addressed tb each particular person assessed, but was afforded
by a general publication, calling upon all persons having property subject to taxation to .come forward and ask for such
correction as they desired to have made. Louisiana Acts,
Extra Session of 1877, pp. 154, 155; Louisiana Acts of 1871,
p. 118. Beyond peradventure, this statute afforded both
constructive and actual notice of the making of the assessment, and ample opportunity to any property owner to correct or resist the same if he deemed himself injured thereby.
It cannot be doubted that in the exercise of its taxing power
the State of Louisiana could have directed that the property
subject to its taxing authority should be assessed without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

reference whatever to the name of the owner, that is to say,
by any such description and method as would have been
legally adequate to convey either actual or constructi'e notice
to the owner. As said in Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall.
210,-217, "It is not the province of this court to interfere with
the policy of the revenue laws of the States, nor with the
interpretation given to them by their courts. Arkansas has
the riglit to determine the manner of levying and collecting
taxes, and can declare that the particular tract pf land shall
be chargeable with the taxes, no matter who is the owner, br
in whose name it is assessed and advertised, land that an
erroneous assessment does not vitiate a sale for taxes."
The claim, then, is that the assessment in question did
not constitute due process of law within the Fourteenth
Amendment because of error in the name of the owner, although the assessment would have been due process if under
the' state law it had not been required to mention the name
of the owner, that is to say, that the assessment -is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, because of the lesser
when it would not have been in conflict with the Constitution
for the greater omission. This deduction demonstrates the
error of the propositibn relied on, and it cannot be escaped
by saying that although the State had the power, without
violating due process of law, to dispense with the name, nevertheless where the state statute has directed the use of a name
in making an assessment, a defective giving thereof renders
the assessment wholly void and a want of due process of law.
This argument is answered by Williams v. Supervisors of
Albany, 122 U. S. 154, 164, where, in considering the power of
a State as to the assessment and collection of taxes, speaking
through Mr. Justice Field, it was said:
"The mode in which the property shall be appraised, by
whom its appraisement shall be made, the time within which
it shall be done, what certificate of their ,action shall be
furnished, and when parties shall be heard for the correction
of errors, are matters resting in its discretion. Where directions upon the subject might originally have been dispensed
with, or executed at another time, irregularities arising from

CASTILLO v. McCONNICO.
Opinion of the Court.

neglect to follow them may be remedied by the legislature,
unless its action in this respect is restrained by constitutional
provisions prohibiting retrospective legislation. It is only
necessary, therefore, in any case to consider whether the
assessment could have been ordered originally without requiring the proceedings, the omission or defective performance of which is complained of, or without requiring them
within the time designated. If they were not essential to any
valid assessment, and therefore might have been omitted or
performed at another time, their omission or defective performance may be cured by the same authority which' directed
them, provided, always, that intervening rights are not impaired."
The vice which underlies the entire argument of the plaintiff in error arises from a failure to distinguish between the
essentials of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment, and matters which may or.may not be essential under the
terms of a state assessing or taxing law. The two are neither
correlative or coterminous. The first, due process of law, must
be found in the state statute, and cannot be departed from without violating the Constitution of the United States. The
other depends on the lawmaking power of the State, and as
it is solely the result of such authority may vary or change as
the legislative will of the State sees fit to ordain. It follows
that, to determine the existence of the one, due process of
law, is the final province of this court, whilst the ascertainment of the other, that is, what is merely essential under the
state statute, is a state question within the final jurisdiction
of courts of last resort of the several States. When, then, a
state court decides that a particular formality was or was
not essential under the state statute, such decision presents no
Federal question, providing always the statute as thus construed does not violate the Constitution of the United States,
by depriving of property without due process of law. This
paramount requirement being fulfilled, as to other matters
the state interpretation of its own law is controlling and
decisive. This distinction- is pointed out by the decisions of
this court. Pittsburg, Ci linnati &c. Railway v. Backu8,

OCTOBER TERM. 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

154= U. S. 421.; Kentucly RaiZroad Tax cases, 115 U. S. 321;
Davidson v. _New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97.

Bearing the foregoing elementary principle in mind, we
will briefly notice the adjudicated cases upon which the plaintiff in error relies.
The authorities referred to tending to establish that where
the law requires an assessment to contain the name, the
omission of the name renders the assessment void, are inapposite to. the question under consideration. We are not here
concerned wdith the meaning of the Louisiana statutes, or
whether we would hold as an original proposition, were we
construing them, that a defect in the name of the person
assessed would not be a material variance. The Supreme
Court of the State of Louisiana has construed the statutes
of that State otherwise. The issue which we are to determine
is not what interpretation should be given to the statutes of
the State of Louisiana, but whether, accepting the meaning
affixed to the statutes of that State by the court of last re§ort
of the State, their provisions as so interpreted are repugnant
to the.Constitution of the United States, because not affording
due process of law. The previous adjudications of the Supreme Court of Louisiana referred to by that court in its
opinion and upon which it rested its decree in this case, in
effect hold that under the Louisiana law a mistake in the
name did not render the assessment void, and therefore that
the conclusive presumption engendered by the Louisiana act
of 1884: was not intended to, and did not make valid a wholly
void assessment. Because in a case decided subsequently to
the one now under review the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana has held that an assessment in the name of a
person deceased rendered such assessment wholly void, it does
not follow that the court thereby departed from the ruling
which it had made in this case, and which bad been by it
rested upon a line of decisions declared by it to have conclusively settled the law of Louisiana on the subject, and which,
in effect, it announced had become a rule of property in that
State. The case of Marx v. Ianthorn,148,U. S. 172, in no way
conflicts with the foregoing considerations. That case came to

PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE

0. v. AUSTIN.

685

Syllabus.

this court on appeal from a Circuit Court of the United States,
and its decision involved ascertaining the meaning of the tax
laws of the State as interpreted by the court of last resort
.thereof. In performing this duty the court adopted and followed the construction given to the-tax laws of the State by
the Supreme Court Of the State whence the case came.
There is a claim asserted in argument that as a particular
section of the act of 1884: provided that the sum of. the bid
at a tax sale should be paid into the state treasury, therefore
it is clearly unconstitutional, since, in a case where the bid exceeded the taxes, the surplus money of the owner would go
into- the state treasury without provision for its repayment.
But this is a mere abstract contention, since the fact is that
the sum bid at the tax sale in question was less than the
amount of the taxes assessed against the property.

.Dismi8sedfor wantofju'isdicio.

PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. AUSTIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 44. Argued April 23, 1897. -Decided

January8, 1898.

The complainants in their bill predicated their right to relief upon the averment that certain ordinances adopted by the municipal authorities of
Austin, and an act of the legislature of Texas referred to in their bill
Impaired the obligations of a contract which the bill alleged had been
entered into with the complainants by the city of Austin, and that both
the law of the State and the city ordinances were in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States. Held, that these allegations plainly
brought the case within the provision in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, conferring upon this court jurisdiction to review by direct
appeal any final judgment rendered by a Circuit Court in any case in
which the constitution or a 1aw of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
The reason upon which the rulethat the mere assertion of a claim, unaccompanied by any act to give effect to the asserted right, cannot avail to
keep alive a right which would otherwise be precluded because of laches,
is based not alone upon the lapse of time during which the neglect to

