McHENRY v. ALFORD.
Syllabus.

not pretend to set up any right it had under any statute of
the United States in reference to the effect of reduction in
weight of silver coin by natural abrasion."
Writ of error diamied.

McHENRY v. ALFORD.
CERTIFICATE PO m THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 189. Argued December 2, 8, 489T. -Decided January 8, 1898.

The ruling in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, 168 U. S. 505, that
each question certified to this court frdn a Circuit Court of Appeals
"had to be a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that
it could be distinctly answered without regard to the other issues of law
in the case; ,to be a question of law only and not a question of fact, or
of miked law and fact, and hence could not involve or imply a conclusion
or judgment upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced in
the case, and could not embrace the whole case, even where its decision'
turned upon matter of law only, and even though it was split up in the
form of questions," is affirmed and followed; and, being applied to the
questions certified in this case, makes it necessary for the court to decline to answer the first, the second and the sixth questions.
Chapter 99 of the Laws of the Territory of Dakota of 1883 provided for
the taxation of the lands of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
granted to It by Congress, outside of its right of way and not used in
its business, while owned by the company and not leased, through the
payment of percentages on gross earnings as provided for therein; the
plain meaning of that act being to render the railroad company and all
its property, land grants as well as right of way, free from the payment
of all taxes, excepting to the amount and in the manner described in the
act.
That legislation was not in conflict with the provision in the act*of March 2,
1861, c. 86, 12 Stat. 239, providing that no law "shall be passed impairing
the rights of private property; nor shall any discrimination be made in
taxing different ]inds of property; but all property subject to taxation
shall be in proportion to the value of the property taxed."
It is not necessary to decide whether the act of 1883 conflicts with the Constitution in that it lays taxes upon earnings arising from transportation
of persons and property between different States.
The objection that the act of 1883 violates the Fourteenth Amendment is
untenable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
The railroad company can avail itself of the payment of the taxes under
the act of 1883 as a full payment of the taxes for the year 1888, and the
court answers the fourth question in the negative.
The next and fifth question is answered in the affirmative. The payments
made by the railroad company for tle year 1888; as- set forth in the bill,
embraced the whole amount of taxes due from the defendant for that
year (as well as others) under the act of- 1883. Even if not paid at the
exact time provided for in the statute, the failure to so pay might be
waived by the public authorities, and as the moneys were in fact paid to
and received by the officers of the Territory and went into its treasury,
and never have been returned or tendered back, there was an effectual
waiver of any objection which might possibly have been urged that the
payment was not in time.

Tis case comes here on a certificate from the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, -and that
court certifies several questions 'concerning which it desires
the instruction of this court for the proper decision of the
cause. These questions are founded;, among other papers,
updn the bill of complaint which forms part of the record
herein. It appears' that the bill was filed by. the complainants' predecessors (who "were receivers of the property of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company) on the 22d day of
March, 1894, in the district court of the fourth judicial district of North Dakoth, sitting for the county of Richland in
that State. It was filed, among other things, for the purpose
of obtaining a decree adjudging that .certain alleged and
pretended and attempted assessments, under state authority,
were null and void, and that all certificates and deeds executed by virtue of such assessments were void and constituted
clouds upon the title to the lands described therein, and
whidh were alleged to be owned by the corporation of which
the plaintiffs were receivers. Some of the individual defendants named in the bill were alleged to have purchased, at a
tax sale under the assessments, separate portions of the property of the company situated in Richland County, and to
have received certificates or deeds from the county officials
purporting to convey to each of them certain portions of
such property. Upon a petition of one of the individual
defendants named Sumner R. Clark, alleging diverse citizenship between the parties and the existence of a separate con-

McEENIY v. ALFORD.
Statement of the _Cae.

.

troversy between the petitioner and the complainants, a removal of the cause to the United States Circuit Court for the
District of North Dakota was prayed for, and on the 5th of
September, 1894, the court granted the petition and made an
order for the removal of the cause. Upon a trial of the issues
joined in the case, the Oircuit Court of the United States
for the District of North Dakota dismissed the complainants'
bill, and the complainants thereupon appealed to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
It appears from the complainants' bill, that the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company was a corporation created and existing by virtue of an act of Congress, approved July 2, 1864,
c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, entitled "An act granting lands to aid in
the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake
Superior to Puget Sound, on the Pacific coast, by the northern route." The third section of that act, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line to the Pacific coast, granted to the railroad company,
its successors and assigns, certain portions of the public lands,
as mentioned in the section. Pursuant to the provisions of
the act, and prior to the year 1888, the company had definitely fixed the line of its railroad, and prior to that year
had constructed and put in operation a continuous line
of railroad and telegraph, extending from the waters of
Lake Superior westerly and through the Territory of North
Dakota to the waters of Puget Sound; and prior to, and
during the year 1888, many thousand acres of land in North
Dakota were owned by the railroad company, under the land
grant above mentioned, although patents for a portion of the
same were not issued until June 24, 1893, and, for another
portion; not until June 18, 1894. (No question is made by the
complainants herein that the lands owned by the company
were not taxable in 1888 on account of the fact that the company had not then received patents from the United States
therefor.)
On the 31st of May, 1870, Congress adopted a resolution
authorizing the company to issue bonds for the construction.
of its road, and to secure the same by mortgages on its prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

erty of all kinds and description, real, personal and mixed,
including its franchises as a corporation. Under that resolution the company executed, at different times, several mortgages to secure the payment of a hundred millions or more of
bonds issued to aid in the construction of the road, and these
mortgages covered all the property of the company, including
the lands granted to it by the United States under, the act of
1864.
In 4893 the company was insolvent and unable to meet the
interest upon its bonds or to pay its other indebtedness, and
in that year suits were duly commenced against it by creditors
to recover the amount of its indebtedness, and also, by the
trustee mortgagee, to foreclose the mortgages, in which suit
redeivers were appointed, and the complainants are their
successors.
On 'March 9, 1883, the legislature of the Territory enacted
a statute, entitled "An act to provide for the levy and collectib of taxes upon railroad property of railroad companies in
this Territory," Laws of 1883, c. 99, p. 211, the first and fifth
sections of which are set forth in the margin.' This act was
repealed by chapter 105 of the Laws of 1889.
'ACT OF 1883.
SEcTiow 1. Percentage of Gross Earnings to be Paid in Lieu of Other
Tazes.-In lieu of any and all other taxes .upon any railroads, except railroads operated by horse power, within this Territory, or upon the equipment, appurtenances or appendages thereof, or upon any other property
sitdated in this Territory, belonging to the corporation owning or operating
such railroads, or upon the capital stock or business transaction of such
railroad company, there shall hereafter be 'paid into the treasury of this
Territory a percentage of all the gross earnings of the corporation owning
or operating such railroad, arising from the operation of such railroad as
shall be situated within this Territory, as hereinafter stated, that is to say:
Every such railroad corporation or person operating a railroad in this
Territory shall pay to said treasurer each year for the first five years after
said railroad shall be or shall have been operated in whole or in part, two
(2) per centum of such gross earnings; and for and in each and every year
after the expiration of the said five years, three (3) per centum of the said
gross earnings; and the payment of such per centum annually as aforesaid
shall be and is in full of all taxation and assessments whatever upon the
property aforesaid. The said payments shall be made one'half ( ) on or
befoie the fifteenth day of February, and one half ( ) on or before the

XcR-ENRY v. ALFORD.
Statement of the Case.

Subsequently, and on the 7th day of March, 1889, the legislature of the Territory passed another act, entitled "An act
for the levy and collection of taxes upon property of railroad
companies in this Territory."
Section 7 of the act of 1889 is set forth in the margin.1
fifteenth day of August, in each year, and for the purpose of ascertaining
the gross earnings aforesaid, an accurate account of such earnings shall be
ket by said company; an abstract whereof shall be furnished by said company to the treasurer of this Territory on or before the first (Ist) day of
February in each year; the truth of which abstract shall be ve~ifled by the
affidavits of the treasurer and secretary of said company, and for the purpose of ascertaining the truth of such-affidavits and the correctness of such
abstracts, full power is hereby vested in the governor of this Territory, or
any other person appointed by law, to examine under oath the officers and
employ~s of said company, or other persons, and if any person so examined
by the governor or other authorized persons shall knowingly or wilfully
swear falsely concerning the matter aforesaid, every such person is declared
to have committed perjury. And for the purpose of securing to the Territory the payment of the aforesaid per centums, it is hereby declared that
the Territory shall have-a lien upon the railroad of said company and upon
all property, estate and effects of said company whatsoever, personal, real
or mixed. And the lien hereby secured to the Territory shall have and
take precedence .of all demands, decrees and judgments against said
company.
Snc. 5. Lands Subject to Taxation.-The lands of any railroad company
shall become subject to taxation in the same manner as other similar property, as soon as the same are sold, leased or contracted' to be sold or
leased;. and on or before the first day of April of each year, each railroad
company having lands 'within this Territory, shall return to the county
clerk of each county, full and complete lists, verified by the affidavits of
some officer of the company having knowledge of the facts, of all lands
of such company situated in such county, sold or contracted to be sold or
leased during the year ending the last day of December preceding, and
the list furnished on or before the first day of April, A.D. 1883, in compliance with the terms of this section, shall include a complete list of all
lands sold or leased, or contracted to be sold or leased, prior to the last
day of December, A.D. 1882.
1 Aar OF 1889.
SEC. 7. Any Railroad Company which at the date of the. passige of
this act owns or is engaged in operating any line or lines of railroad in this
Territory, may at any time within thirty days after"the passage of this act,
by resolution of its board of directors, attested by its ,secretary, and filedwith the secretary of the Territory, accept and become subject to the provisions of this act, and provided that any railroad company which is now

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The Northern Pacific Railroad Company, within thirty
days after the passage of the act of 1889, duly accepted its
provisions, and within thirty days from that date paid into
the treasury of the Territory the entire amount of taxes and
interest theretofore claimed by the Territory as due and remaining unpaid to it from the company on local and interstate earnings under the act of 1883, excepting that thesecond half of the sum due from the company to the Territory for the taxes of 1888, according to the provisions of the
act of 1883, was not paid to and received by the treasurer of
the Territory until August 15, 1889. The whole tax for 1888,
under the act of 1883, amounted to nearly $100,000, while for
all the years in which the company was -in arrear under the
act of 1883 (including the year 1888) the amount paid was
nearly $200,000.
In the year 1888 the usual proceedings were taken by the
officials of Richland .County to assess all the property in the
c6unty under the general assessment laws of the Territory,
in arrears in the payment of taxes assessed under chapter 99 of the Laws
of 1883, shall, within thirty days after the passage of this act, pay into the
territorial treasury the full amount of the taxes and interest due under
the assessments under said law of 1883 before they can avail themselves of
the provisir.ns of this act, by accepting its terms, including taxes on both
territorial and interstate earnings. It is further expressly provided that any
company failing to strictly comply with the provisions of this act within the
term herein provided shall be immediately subject to assessment and in the
manner provided for the assessment and the taxation, of the property of
individuals of this Territory, and said taxes shall be collected in the -same
manner as is now provided in cases of the property of individuals. Any
company which has not complied with the provisions of chapter 99 of the
Session Laws of 1883 by paying all taxes claimed on gross earnings, both
territorial and interstate, or by filing an account of gross earnings, both
territorial and interstate, shall prepare and file such account in the manner
therein provided within thirty days from the passage hereof, and pay one
half of the entire amount due under the agreement and acceptance herein
referred to, for the current year, and also the entire amount of taxes heretofore claimed by the Territory on local and interstate earnings of such companies, but remaining unpaid at the time of filing said account, and within
thirty days after the passage of this act, or the same shall not apply to
such company or companies. The balance of said taxes due for the current
year shall be paid to the territorial treasurer on or before the fifteenth day
of August, 1889.

McHENRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

and in such assessment the land grant lands of the railroad
company were included, (regardless of the act of 1883,) and
thereafter in due course the taxes thus levied, not having been
paid by the company, the treasurer of the county on the
4th day of November, 1889, attempted and pretended to sell
many parcels of land belonging to the railroad company and
being in the county already mentioned, for the purpose of collecting the taxes unpaid thereon, and no redemptions of the
lands having been made, the ounty treasurer executed to the
persons who purchased the lands or their assignees, some of
whom are defendants in this suit, deeds purporting to convey
the lands so sold to such persons, and these deeds are alleged
to be invalid, but still a cloud upon the title of the company
to the lands described therein.
The bill also sets forth a great many different alleged
errors, irregularities and omissions on the part of the taxing authorities in taking proceedings to levy the taxes, by
reason of which, as alleged, the taxation of the property of
the company was illegal and the deeds were null and void.
A joint and several demurrer and answer to the bill was
served upon the part, of the defendants, taking issue upon
some of the allegations of fact in the bill and demurring to
other parts thereof, but a sufficient statement of the case has
already been made to lead to a proper understanding of the
questions hereinafter discussed.
Mr.

. W. Baunn for McHenry.

'. .Edgar W. Camp for Alford.
M . JUSTICE PECKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The learned Circuit Court of Appeals has certified to this
court six questions, concerning which it desires the instruction
of this court for a proper decision of the cause. The following are the questions so certified:
VOL. cLxvnm--42

OCTOBER TERl9,- 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. Has the United States Circuit Court for the District
of North Dakota jurisdiction to hear and decide said case?
"2. Were or were not the lands described in the bill of
complaint subject. to taxation under the laws of the Territory
of Dakota in the year 1888 by reason of the 'facts stated in
the bill of complaint respecting the condition of the title
thereof.?,3. Was it the purpose of chapter 99 of the Laws of
Dakota for 1883 to exempt from taxatioh lands granted to aid
in the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad by the act
of July 2, 1864, which are outside of its right of way and are
not shown to be used in its business as a common carrier?
"4. If such was the purpose of the act was the a~t void
in whole or in part as 'transgressing the limitations placed
upon the power of the territorial legislature?
"5. Conceding. that the purpose of chapter 99 of the
Laws of 1883 was to exempt, among other things, the land
grant of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and that
said law is valid, are the payments of the percentage of the
gross earnings for the year 1888, alleged in the bill to have.
been made, sufficient to entitle the complainant to the equitable relief sought?
"6. Conceding the lands in controversy to have been
subject to taxation for the year 1888, were the appellants, by
reason of any of the alleged irregularities or defects in the.
mode of assessment, entitled to equitable relief without first
offering to pay the taxes properly chargeable against said
lands? "
Of these questions, we -think we ought to answer only the
third, fourth and fifth. The first, second and sixth come
within our rulings in the cases of tewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.
426; .Fire Insurance Association v. Wickham, 128 U. S. 426;
Mlaynard v. .Hecht, 151 U. S. 324; Graver v. .Faurot, 162
U. S. 435; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60, and United States v.
Union Pacific Railroad,ante, 505.
In the case last cited, in speaking of the rules which govern
the certification provided for in sectidns 5 and 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 51-7, 26 Stat. 826, the Chief Justice

McHENIY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

repeated those rules as derived from prior caecisions, and said
that "each question had to be a distinct point or proposition
of law, clearly stated, so that it could be distinctly answered
without regard to the other issues of law in the case; to be a question of law only and not a question of fact, or of mixed law
and fact, and hence could not involve or imply a conclusion or
judgment upon th& weight or effect of testimony or facts
adduced in the case, and could not embrace the whole case,
even where its decision turned upon matter of law only, and
even though it was split up in the form of questions'."
Guided by these rules, we find that the first question does
not comply with their requirements. No single question of
law is plainly raised therein. The record only shows that
the 'case was commenced in a state court, and was removed
upon the petition of one of the individual defendants into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of North
Dakota. Neither party (so far as appears from the record)
raised any question-of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court to hear
and determine the whole case. Whether there is some defect
supposed to exist in the petition for removal, or whether the
controversy was or was not a separable one, or whether the
citizenship of the different parties was not sufficiently alleged
or did not sufficiently appear; whether the petition was -filed
in the proper time, or the bond was sufficient in form, or the
approval of the court was or was not sufficient, all these questions are possible subjects of inquiry in order to answer the
general question submitted to us. We should not be asked to
grope our way through the papers submitted and examine
every objection that imagination could raise, with no hint as
to what, if any, objection is really supposed to exist. Some
of the above enumerated possible objections could not in any
event be answered in the present state of the record, which
does not contain all the facts necessary to be known in their
consideration. If the whole case were here upon writ of error
or appeal, we should have to look into any question of jurisdiction, whether raised or not, but we are not obliged to do so
when questions only are certified to us, unless presented in
proper form.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The second question we regard as equally objectibnable.
The question certified is not a distinct point or proposition of
law clearly stated so that it can be definitely answered witho.ut regard to other issues of law or fact in the case. What is
the particular condition of the title to the lands which raises
the doubt as to their being subjebt to taxation and induces the
certification of the whole question to this court? This is not
stated, and we are left to discover any or all possible objections
by reading the bill and then conjecturing what the particular
objection may really be.
What might otherwis6 have been considered as an objection,
regard being had to the decision of this court in .Nort Pa.#oftRailroadv. T!raill 6ounty, 115 U. S. 600, would seem to
have been rendered of no force by the act of Congress of July
10, 1886, c. 764, 24 Stat. 143, providing for taxation of railroad
grant lands. The question of law arising from the condition
of the title is neither plainly stated nor is the condition itself
clearly presented.
The sixth question, for the same reasons, cannot be answered. There is no plain statement of a distinct proposition
of law. We are left to read the whole of that part of the
bill alleging many different facts said to constitute various
and separate irregularities, each of which might be a separate
and distinct question of law, but all of which are joined together in an inseparable mass.
Questions of the character of the three thus described are
not within the meaning of the act of 1891, and certifying
them confers no jurisdiction upon this court to answer
them.
We come then to the consideration of the third, fourth and
fifth questions, and we will proceed to answer them.
The wording of the third question may at first sight render
i.ts meaning somewhat obscure. We are asked whether it
was "the purpose of chapter 99 of the Laws of Dakota of
1883 to exempt from taxation lands granted to aid in the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad by the act of July
2, 1864, which are outside of its right of way, and are not
shown to be used in its business as a common carrier?" We

McEHENRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

should answer -No,

it was not the intention to exempt from

but to change the mode of taxation.
This court, in Northern Pacifc Railroad v. Olark, 153
U. S. 252, at page 271, in speaking of the act of 1889, which
in this particular (that of substituting an assessment upon
gross earnings) is similar in substance to the act of 1883, said
that the act did not exempt the property of the railroad company from taxation, but that it merely substituted one method
of taxation for another upon the terms and conditions specified.
But we take the true meaning of the question to be whether
the act exenipts, fr.om taxation the lands granted to aid in the
construction of the railroad company in any other manner
than as provided for in that act. Thus interpreting the meaning of the question, we are of opinion it. should be answered
in the affirmative.
The language of the act in its first section seems to be so
plain as to be beyond the necessity of construction. The act
says that the payments therein provided for are "in lieu of
any and all other taxes upon any railroads, except railroads
operated by h6rse power, within this Territory, or upon the
equipment, appurtenances or appendages thereof, or upon any
other property situated in this Territory belonging to the
corporation owning or operating such railroads, or upon the
capital stock or business transactions of such railroad company." These payments are also said to be "in full of any
and all other taxation and assessments whatever upon the
property aforesaid."
In addition to this plain language, the act, for the purpose
of securing the payment of the taxes as provided, gives to the
Territory a lien upon the railroad of the company and upon
all its property, estate and effects whatsoever, personal, real or
mixed. This provision for a lien upon all property of the
company, together- with the provision of section 5, that "the
lands of any railroad company shall become subject to taxation in the same manner as other similar property as soon as
the same are sold, leased or contracted to be sold or leased,"
is additional proof to conclusively show that the lands while

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

owned by the company and not leased, etc., shall not be taxed
other than as they are taxed by the act and through the
payment of the percentages on the gross earnings, as provided for therein. The principle that exemption from taxation must be clearly shown, and that it generally applies (if
at all) only to property used in the business of the company
claiming the exemption, is acknowledged and assented to.
The case of Ford v. Deltc & Pine Zand Co., 164 U. S. 662,
is an illpstration of the principle, but it does not here apply.
The language of this act is clear and absolute. It is also not
the case of an exemption from taxation but the substitution
of one method for another. The land here in question is, in
addition, closely connected -withthe business of the company.
We shall show this more at length hereafter.
The learned counsel for the defendants argues that if the
payment of the percentage of the earnings under this act was
intended to be in lieu of the land tax, then a part at least of
the payment would have been divided among the counties
according to the value of the granted lands unsold within such
counties, because, as he says, it is a well-known fact that
many counties of North Dakota contain large tracts of land
owned by this company but do not contain a mile of the line
of its road, and under the provisions of this law a county thus
situated received no part of the gross earnings tax. But this
argument goes only to the alleged injustice of the appropriation of the tax when paid, and not to its extent or character.
Under the act of 1889 it is admitted that the legislature
intended the exemption of lands like these in controversy
from any taxation other than the indirect kind arising from
the taxation of gross earnings, because under that act a part
of the proceeds of the tax was divided among the counties
according to the acreage of the unsold granted lands, even
where no portion of the railroad was contained in such
county. But the language of the exemption above described
is substantially the same in both acts. The later act simply
makes an appropriation of the proceeds of the tax somewhat
different from that of the earlier one. The exemption was
the same in each and founded upon the same language.

McHEIMRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

While the later act, perhaps recognizing the injustice in
bestowing no portion of the tax collected upon those counties
through which the road did not run, although lands of the
company were therein situated, altered the disposition and
appropriated a portion to the counties in which some of
the lands were situated, yet no difference as to the intention
of the legislature to exempt all the lands can be properly
based upon this alteration. The exemption of the lands
from a tax other than as therein provided for is based upon
the same language in each act, and is perfectly plain in
both.
It is also seen that by the act of 1879, c. 46, p. 122, Session
Laws of Dakota, a system of taxation of certain specified
property of railroad companies by a tax on their gross earnings was provided for, and the tax thus collected was stated
in the act to be "in lieu of all other taxation . .
of the
roadbed, right of way, stations or depot grounds, tracts, rolling
stock, water stations," etc., "used in or incident to the operation of such railroad."
This act by reason of the tax on the gross' earnings, limits
the freedom from taxation, to the roadbed, as above stated,
and property "used in or incident to the operation of such
railroad." The act also provides that "all property of railroads not above enumerated, subject to taxation, shall be
treated in all respect, in regard to assessment and equalization,
the same as similar property belonging to individuals, whether
said lands are derived from the general government or from
other sources."
The difference between the language of the act of 1879 and
that of 1883 is most marked. Instead of enumerating the
particular property which is to be regarded as exempt from
other taxation by reason of the tax on gross earnings, and
providing for the taxation of the rest of the property of the
railroad the same as similar property of the individual, as is
the case in the act of 1879, the act of 1883 says the tax is in
lieu of any and all other taxes upon any railroad within the
Territory or upon the equipment or upon any other property
situated in the Territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Does not this different language import, clearly and plainly,
a different intention?
We are unable to think of any language of plainer meaning
than that used in this statute, and there can be no doubt, as
it seems to us, that its meaning is to render the railroad coinpany and all its property, land grants as well as right of way,
free from the payment of all taxes, excepting of the amount
and in the manner described in the act.
This same question was argued in the Supreme Court of the
State, and decided by it in 1892, in accordance with the views
we have above expressed. Northern Pacific Railroad v.
Barnes, 2-North Dakota, 310. It was afterwards decided in
another way in Railroad Co. v. .MoGinni§, 4 North Dakota,'
494, somewhat upon the theory, that, as it was a Federal question, the court would follow the decision to that effect by a
Federal court. 47 Fed. :Rep. 681.
We are not embarrassed by these conflicting dedisions, and
we have no difficulty in answering the third question in the
affirmative.
We come now to the fourth question which involves, among
other things, the construction of one of -the sections of the
organic act creating the Territory of Dakota, (act of March
2, 1861, c. 86, 1 Stat. 239, at sec. 6, p. 241,) the material portion of which relating to the authority of the territorial legislature provides that no law "shall be passed impairing the
rights of private property; nor shall any discrimination be
made in taxing different kinds of property; but all property
subject to taxation shall be in proportion to the value of the
property taxed." The same provision in substance is found
in section 1925, Revised Statutes, relating to the legislative
assemblies of Colorado, Dakota and Wyoming.
It is argued by counsel that, although. under this provision
of the organic law, the territorial legislature could generally
select the subjects of taxation, and could classify property for
that purpose, and that these different classes of property could
be valued or taxed by different methods, nevertheless the act
of 1883, under consideration, is in excess of the lawful exercise of any of the powers granted under the organic act,

McENIY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

notwithstanding that act in the section above alluded to
provided that "the legislative power of the Territory shall
extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with
the Constitution of the United- States and the provisions of
this act." There must be some solid ground for making a
distinct classification of property, and such ground does not
exist, as is contended, by reason of any of the facts herein
mentioned.
Viewing the character, condition and use of these lands, it
is said to be plain that they are simply "property owned by
a railroad," and not "railroad property," as described in the
title to the act of 1883, and that the two are not equivalent
terms; that although railroad property might be taxed in a
special method and at a .special rate, yet by the term "railroad property" is simply meant property necessary for use in
the usual daily conduct of the business of the company'as a
common carrier by rail, and that any lands outside of that
use, although owned by a railroad company, could not be
classified and taxed in any different manner from land owned
by an individual, otherwise such classification would be purely
arbitrary, and the taxation in that way would be illegal.; that
no earnings arise from these lands which are assessed under
the act, because the earnings upon which the tax is assessed
are by the terms of the act rdstricted to "the gross earnings
arising from the operating of such railroad," and such
earnings are not created by nor do they arise from nor are
they in any way connected with these lands, which are therefore not taxed at all under this act, and no justification for
their special classification for purposes of taxation can on that
account be found.
All these various statements are made in the course of the
main and general argument that these lands cannot be taxed
under an act like that of 1883, because there is no sound distinction between such lands owned by the company and ordinary lands owned absolutely by an individual.
We do not concur in the accuracy of the description as to
the condition of these lands, and we are not, therefore, impressed with the force of the argument based upon it. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

lands are not purely and simply owned or held for sale or
other disposition for profit, and in no way connected with the
use or operation, of the railroad, and in regard to them the
company is not a landed proprietor, on the same footing with
any other proprietor of lands, and it is not correct to say that
these lands do not substantially, though indirectly, contribute
towards the gross earnings of the railroad company, as-provided
in the act of 1883, nor can it be admitted that in merely taxing
the gross earnings arising from the operation of the road these
lands are not taxed at all. The lands are closely connected
with the railroad and with its operation, and they are not in
the same condition as a subject for taxation as are the lands
of an individual. While We agree that property of the same
kind and under the same condition and used for the same pufpose
cannot be divided into different 6lasses for purposes of taxation
* and taxed by'a different rule simply because it belongs to
different owners, yet, where the situation and the possible use
and the present condition of the ownership of lands are wholly
different, such as they are in this case from ordinary ownership, a classification is not arbitrary nor unreasonable which
places such lands outside the class of lands owned in the ordinary way by individuals.
Although the act here provides for the taxation- of the gross
earnings arising from the operation of the road, the phrase
* means earnings which arise because of its operation. The
road is- in operation, and the earnings which it is thereby
enabled to make are to be taxed. Property which the company owns, and which has enabled and continues to enable it
to operate its road, is part of the property from which the
earnings arise by reason of such operation, and is within the
meaning of the act. These lands are of this description.
Although they are not taxed directly, yet the same is true of
the right of way, the roadbed, the engines, cars and water
tanks, all of which are ccnfessedly "railroad property," without which the road could not be operated. In substance, it
must be said that without the existence of all the various
pieces of property just enumerated, gross earnings would be
quite impossible. It is also true in regard to these lands. It

McHENRY v. AIJFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

is not a question of what might under other circumstances
have been their condition with relation to the railroad. We
must take the circumstances that actually did exist at the
time this act was passed for the purpose of determining this
question. And, looking at those facts, we see that unquestionably these lands have indirectly contributed to the gross
earnings derived from operating the road, and that such earnings have arisen and been made possible by reason of the lands.
They have not only aided in making these gross earnings
possible, but they have formed, and do still form, a material
factor in the combination of circumstances contributing to
the construction of the railroad, to its operation and to its
earnings.
They originally formed a part of the public domain, and
were granted by Congress for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of this railroad to the Pacific coast, and were
given to and accepted by the company, subject to the conditions named in the. eighth section of the act. When the lands
finally became the property of the company, they were impressed with a trust in favor of the Government, as representing the public, that they should be used for the purpose for
which they were granted, and the company was not even
allowed to mortgage or create any lien upon them in any way
except by the consent of the Congress of the United States.
Act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, at page 370, section 10.
Subsequently it was found that the road could not be built
under the conditions at first imposed, and Congress, therefore,
in 1870, authorized the company to issue bonds for the construction of its road and to secure the same by mortgage.
Under such authority, mortgages were thereafter made to
secur6 bonds for more than a hundred million of dollars, the
proceeds of which were used in building the road. These
lands have, therefore, actually and directly contributed in a
large measure and have formed a most potent factor towards
building the road and enabling it to be operated and to earn
moneys by reason of such operation. How can it be correctly
said. that they are not in any way taxed by a tax on the gross
earnings of the road arising from its operation, whenthe road

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

could only be constructed ind operated by reason (among
others) of the moneys raised upon the security of these very
lands ? The present insolvency of the railroad company
shows that the lands must form a most important item in the
ability of the company or its successors to continue the operation of the road and make any earnings whatever.
If it be assumed that after the lands became the property
of the company it was at that moment no more restricted in
their sale than any other corporation organized to buy and
sell real estate, and that it had the entire right to sell, or not
to sell, or to mortgage to whom -and at what price it might
obtain, and that it owned the land like an individual, still the
question is presented as to what was the actual condition of
affairs when the act of 1883 was passed. At that time these
lands were so closely connected with the railroad, *itsconstruction and operation, as in effect to be part and parcel thereof;
they stood as security for millions of bonds issued to secure
the construction and operation of the'road, and upon these
facts the reason and. justification for a classification, such as
was made in that act, are plainly apparent. At that time
to'tally different circumstances than those which surround an
individual in the absolute ownership of his property existed
in relation to these lands. As they made the gross earnings
possible, it cannot be said, with the least regard to the fact,
that those earnings did not in part issue out of the-lands upon
the same principle that they partly issued out of the right of
way, the roadbed, track, engines, cars, tanks and other confessedly "railroad property." There is no difference in principle between the two Qlasses of property so far as this question is concerned. Then, too, the road of the company runs
through the whole State, hundreds of miles; it owns.thou-sands upon thousands of acres therein, granted it for the purposes stated, and these lands it has accordingly pledged to.
redeem its bonds issued as mentioned. Its building was a
work of national importance, and it was built for use by the
Government, as well as for other purposes. Surely all these
various facts justify a classification of such an entity for taxation by a different method and upon different lines than the

McHENIRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

individual, and lands thus situated and owned are in a materially different condition from lands absolutely owned by
an individual.
It is said this reasoning, while it might be applicable to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, would. not be applicable
to many other railroads which had no land grants, or which
were not situated as is the company in question, and that as
the law is in its terms general and applies to all roads, this
company cannot obtain its benefit without showing that it is
a valid provision in regard to all railroad property. But if
the property of this company is so situated and the facts
regarding it are so materially different from other real estate
as to fulfil the conditions upon which a general classification
may be proper, we think the company could avail itself of. the
act even if some other companies could not.
Many cases are cited, in the brief of counsel, from the different States having provisions in their constitutions somewhat
similar to those found in the organic act of Dakota, and in which
States it has been held that the legislature is not confined to taxation in precisely the same method for all classes of property,
but that it has power tW classify and to provide different methods
of taxation of the property so classified. The particular facts
arose in and the cases are cited from Wisconsin, Iowa, Kansas,
Louisiana, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mississippi;
Missouri and Illinois. They are cited in the margin.'
1 Wisconsin Central Railroad v. Taylor County, 52 Wisconsin, 37; Griswold 'College v. Iowa, 46 Iowa, 275; MissouriRiver &c. Railroad v. Morris,
7 Kansas, 210; Francisv. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad, 19 Kansas, 303;
Louisiana State Lottery Company v. New Orleans, 21 La. Ann. 86; Mew
Orleans v. .aufman; 29 La. Ann. 283; New Orleans v, Davidson, 30 La.
Ann. 554; New Orleans v. Fourchy, 30 La. Ann. 910; People v. The Auditor, 7 Michigan; 84; Youngblood v. Sexton; 32 Michigan, 406; State ex
rel. Vail's Ezecutors v. Runyon, 41 N. J. Law, 98; Kittanning Coal Company v. Commonwealth, 79 Penn. St. 100; Mississippi Mills v. Cook,
56 Mississippi, 40; Crow v. State, 14 Missouri, 237; Hamilton v. St. Louis
County Court,15 Missouri, 3; State v. North, 27 Missouri, 464, 483; Illinois
Central Railroad v. McLean County, 17 Illinois, 291; State v. Crittenden
County, 19 Arkansas, 360; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railroad
v. Berry, 41 Arkansas, 509; Arkansas Midland Railroad v. Berry, 44 Arkansas, 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon a full consideration of the subject, we are persuaded
that there is nothing in any provision of the act of 1883
for the taxation of the gross earnings which violates the letter
or the spirit of the organic act.
Objection is also made to the act of 1883 on the ground
that it is in violation of the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution in that by its terms taxes are laid
upon earnings arising from the transportation of persons
and property between different States, etc. In other words,
that the tax is not confined to earnings which arise from the
transaction of its business wholly within the State. It is said
that the case of State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15
Wall. 284, holding that the imposition of taxes upon gross receipts of railway companies was not illegal, although the
gross receipts were made up in part of freights received from
the transportation of merchandise from one State to another
or through one State into another, has been overruled by
*the subsequent cases in this court, among which are those
of Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230, 244; Philadephia
Southern Steamship Company v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326;
and it is claimed that the case is not brought under that of
Maine v. Grand Yrun.k Railway Company, 142 U. S. 21, in
that there is no provision for ascertaining the amount of gross
earnings derived from interstate commerce and for the taxation of the balance only.
A perusal of the first section of the act does not render it
at all clear that there was intended to be a tax of any portion
of the gross earnings of the corporation which arose from
interstate commerce. The language of the act which declares
that the tax should be paid into the treasury of the Territory
upon a percentage of all gross earnings of the corporation
owning or operating such railroad "arising from the operation
of such railroad as shall be situated within the Territory,"
gives great reason to doubt the correctness of the construction
which would levy the tax upon the earnings derived from interstate commerce.. But there is great force in the claim that
the act is not subject to the objections mentioned in the above
cases reported in 121 and 122 United States, and the cases

McRENRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

therein referred to. In those cases there was a distinct tax
upon the gross earnings without reference to any other tax,
and not in substitution or in lieu of another tax, while in this
case the act plainly substitutes a different method of taxation
upon the property of a railroad company. It is a tax upon
the lands and all the other property of the company, but instead of placing a valuation upon the lands and other property, and apportioning a certain amount upon such valuation
directly, as was the old method, a new one is established of
taking a percentage upon the gross earnings as a fair substitute for the former taxes upon all the lands and property of
the company, and when it is said, as it is in this act, that the
tax collected by this method shall be in lieu of all other taxes
whatever, it would seem that it might be claimed with great
plausibility that a tax levied under such circumstances and by
such methods was not in reality a tax upon the gross earnings,
but was a tax upon the lands and other property of the company, and that the method adopted of arriving at the sum
which the company should pay as taxes upon its property was
by taking a percentage of its gross earnings.
We do not think it necessary, however, to decide this question, because we are of opinion that, by the act of 1889, the
legislature proffered the company a compromise as to the
taxes claimed to be due and the company accepted the same.
Construing the act of 1883 as we do, and as meaning to exempt the company from" the payment of all other taxes than
those therein named, upon all its property of every name and
nature, we find that in 1889 this company had been in default
in the payment of its taxes under the act of 1883 for the years
1886, 1887 and 1888. It owed nearly two hundred thousand
dollars in taxes for those years under that act. The taxing
authorities of the county of Richland had also assumed to
tax the lands of the company for the year 1888 in the same
way as if owned by individuals, but the tax as thus assessed
had not been paid by the company. In this state of affairs
the act of 1889 was passed, the effect of which was to say
to the company, if you will pay all the taxes that are due
under the act of 1883, you may then accept and come in under

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of this act. And there is in addition to this
offer a clear and necessary implication from the language
used in the-act that if the company would pay those taxes in
full which were thus in arrear such payment would operate as
a discharge of all claims for taxes, including those claims
made by virtue of the proceedings to tax the lands of the
company under the general law. It certainly is not possible
to believe that the legislature intended to make it a condition
for the acceptance of the act of 1889 by the company that it
should not only pay all the taxes which were provided for
under the act of 1883, (and which by the terms of that act
were in full of all other taxation,) and for the payment of
which the company might be in default, and yet and in addition should still be liable to pay the taxes as assessed in Richland County under the general law. We cannot suppose the
legislature intended to compel the payment of taxes.twice, and
therefore the language of the act of 1889 providing for the
payment of all taxes in arrear under the act of 1883 as a condition for the acceptance of the act of 1889, implied that such
payment should also be in full of all other claims for taxes
assessed f6r the same years. Such a condition and proposition
were entirely within the power of the legislature to impose
and make, and when the proposition was accepted and the
condition performed by the payment of money into the treasury of the Territory, all claim for taxes under any general
law levied directly upon the lands necessarily fell with such
payment and acceptance. This implied release of the taxes
for the year 1888, which the authorities had assumed to levy
under the general law and not under the provisions of the act
of 1883, arises from the language of the act of 1889, and is
just as strong and just as clear as if it had been. stated i~n so
many words in that act. That which arises by plain and clear
implication from the language used in an act is as much a part
of the act as if the implication had been embodied iri so many
words..
It may be said that the money should have been paid, if at
all, within thirty days after the passage of the act. Possibly,
if the payment had not been made within that time and the

McENRY v. ALFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

company subsequently had offered to pay it, the money
might have been refused by the authorities of the Territory,
as not paid in time. But the question of the time of payment
was one which might be waived by the public authorities,
and the objection was in law and in fact waived by the-receipt
and retention of the money.
The other objection made to the act of 1883, that it violates
the Fourteenth Amendment, we think untenable under the
views we have above expressed.
Basing our opinion upon the facts of this case, we would
say that for the reasons herein stated the company can avail
itself of the payment of the taxes under the act of 1883 as a
full payment of the taxes for the year 1888, and we formally
answer the fourth question in the negative.
The next and fifth question we answer in the affirmative.
The payments made by the railroad company for the year
1888, as set forth in the bill, embraced the whole amount of
taxes due from the defendant for that year (as well as others)
under the act of 1883. Even if not paid at the exact time
provided for in the statute, the failure to so pay might, as we
have already stated, be waived by the public authorities, and
when the moneys were in fact paid to and received by the
officers of the Territory and went into its treasury, and never
have been returned or tendered back, we think there was an
effectual waiver of any objection which might possibly have
been urged that the payment was not in time.
To sum up, therefore, we do not answer the first, second and
sixth questions. The answers to the third, fourth and fifth
we make as above stated, and they will be

So certifte.
VOL. cLXvi-43

