OCTOBER TERM, 1897
Statement of the Case.

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
I
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 66, 6?. Argued October 28, 29, 1897. -Decided November 29,1892.

On the facts, which are, detailed in the Statement of the Case, below, respecting the navigation and the conduct of the Victory and the rlymothian just previous to the collision which caused the injuries and damage
herein complained of, Held,
(1) That as a general rule, vessels approaching each other in narrow
channels, or where their courses diverge as much as one and one
half or two points, are bound to keep to port and pass to the right,
whatever the occasional effect of the sinuosities of the channel;
(2) That the Victory was grossly in fault, and that the collision was the
direct consequence of 'her disregard of that rule of the road, and
of her reckless navigation,
(3) That the fault of the Victory being obvious and inexcusable, the
evidence to establish fault on the pait of the Plymothian must
be clear and convincing in order to make a case for apportionment; the burden of proof being upon each vessel to establish
fault on the part of the other;
(4) That as the damage was occasioned by collision and was within the
exceptions in the bills of lading, it rested upon the underwriters
to defeat the operation of the exception by proof of such negligence on the part of the Plymotbian as would justify a decree
against her, if sued-alone;
(5) That the Plymothian was on her proper course, that she was not
bound to anticipate the conduct of the Victory, and that she took
all proper precautions as soon as chargeable with notice of risk
of collision.

Ox the twelfth day of November, 1891, the steamers Victory and Plymothian came into collision in the Elizabeth River
between Lambert's Point and Oraney Island Light. The Plymothian, laden with a cargo of cotton, was outward -bound.
The Victory was inward bound in ballast. The Plymothian
and her cargo were seriously damaged. The Victory was
also damaged about the bows.
On the fourteenth of November, the master of the Victory
filed a libel against the Plymothian in the District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia, and on iNovember 27 a libel

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Statement of the Case.

was filed in that court by the underwriters of the Plymothian's
cargo against the Victory and the Plymothian, seeking to hold
them both liable for damage thereto. The Port of Plymouth
Steamship Company, owner of the Plymothian, filed a petition
in said District Court on the third of December, praying for a
limitation of its liability for damages growing out of the collision, and giving notice of its intention to contest its liability
for any part thereof. A similar petition was filed the same
day by MacIntyre and others, owners of the Victory. The
value of the owners' interest in the Plymothian and her
pending freight was fixed at $45,221, less $5000 salvage, or
$40,221; the value of the interest of the owners of the Victory
at the sum of $67,500; each gave bond. The damages to
the Victory were proven .at $14,363.80; to the Plymothian,
at $41,684.12 ; and to the cargo, at $71,427.97.
The cause was heard upon pleadings and evidence, and the
District Court held the Victory solely in fault for the collision,
and decreed a recovery by the owners of the Plymothian and
the u nderwriters of her cargo,yro ,ata,to the extent of the
bond filed by the owners of the Victory in their limitation proceeding. 63 Fed. Rep. 631. The underwriters of the cargo
and the owners of the Victory severally appealed from the
decree of the District Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit. Thai- court concurred -with the District Court so far as concerned the faults found against the
Victory, but held that the Plymothian was also in fault to a
slight degree, and modified the decree of the District Court
by awarding the whole of the Victory's bond to the cargo,
and that any amount remaining unsatisfied should be paid by
the owner of the Plymothian. 25 U. S. App. 271.
The owners of the Victory and the owner of the Plymothian
thereupon severally Petitioned for a writ of certiorari from
this court under section six of the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826; and the writ was accordingly issued.
The facts as stated in substance by the District Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals were as follows:
The Victory was a British steamer of 1774 tons net tonnage,
338 feet in length, 381 feet in breadth, inward bound in ballast,

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

drawing seventeen feet aft and thirteen feet forward. Her
officers and crew numbered thirty-one all told.
The Plymothian'-was a British steamer of 1016 tons net
register, 260 feet long, laden with a cargo consisting of 3682
compressed bales of cotton. I Her officers and crew numbered
twenty-one all told. She was outward bound from Galveston
to Liverpool, having come in through Hampton Roads to
take in-coal at Lambert's Point. Her draft was fourteen or
sixteen feet. Both vessels were in charge of pilots, and their
masters were on their bridges respectively, each acting as
lookout, and seeing- that the orders of the pilots were executed. Neither ship had a special lookout forward' of the
bridge on her bows. The collision occurred in a straight
stretch of the channel of the Elizabeth River between Oraney
Island Light House and the turn in the channel at the buoys
opposite Lambert's Point. There were two of these buoys,
a red one, No. 22, known as the Merrimac Buoy, on the west
.side, and -a black one, No. 9, on the east side. The distance
*from buoy No. 9 to Craney Island Light House was 1967
yards on the chart, or about a mile and one eighth.
The place of collision- was at black buoy No. 7 at the
easterly edge of the eighteen-foot curve of the channel, 1200
yards south of the Craney Island Light House and 767 yards
north of the black buoy No. 9. The 'channel is 250 yards
wide at Craney Island and 450 yards wide at buoy No. 9.
The diagram of the channel on page 413 sufficiently indicates the situation.
The Plymothian had been taking coal at Lambert's Point
pier, a short distance from buoy No. 9. She left the pier at
four P.m., heading out off the buoy, the course from the pier
'to the turning pbint down the channel being northwesterly at"
an angle of forty-five degrees. The. usual departing signal
was given as she moved from the pier. Proceeding outward
to round buoy No. 9, With'the helm slightly a-port, the
engines were at half speed until the buoy was close aboard on
the starboard bow. The engines were then put at full speed
and the helm hard-a-port, and, rounding the buoy, she set her
course down the easterly side of the channel.

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHAIq.
Statement of the Case.

At.

413

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

At this time, the Victory was seen both by the captain and
the pilot of the Plymothian to be coming up the channel,
southward, below Oraney Island Light, to .the westerly side
of the mid-channel and on their port bow. The Plymothian
thereupon blew a passing signal of one .whistle, just as she
passed buoy No. 9, and a minute. later repeated it without
hearing any reply from the Victory. The vessels were over
a mile apart at this time with a bend of the channel between
them. The wind was southwesterly, with force enough to
enable sailing vessels to make two or three knots against the
tide. The Victory had in the meantime been maintaining
her general course so as to pass well clear, port to port. She
had ported her helm, so as to show her port quarter to those
on the Plymothian, straightening up to the channel course of
S. I W. from Craney Island Light. She had been moving at
the rate of ten miles an hour, but at Craney Island she
slackened her speed and proceeded at the rate of six or seven
miles an hour, assisted by a flood tide running southward
with a force of twb knots. The Plymothian in straightening out at buoy 9 had begun to move against the tide at the
rate of about four knots an hour, keeping well to the eastern
side of the channel.
As the vessels were thus proceeding, the Victory, shortly
after passing Craney Island Light, apparently directed her
course towards the easterly side of the channel, as, if under a
starboard helm. The pilot of the Plymothian blew a single
blast on his whistle, and, receiving two in reply, immediately
reversed his engines, sending them full speed astern; blew a
danger signal of three blasts, and put the helm hard-a-port.
The Victory somewhat later also blew a danger signal, and
then, or shortly afterwards, reversed her engines three lengths
away from buoy No. .7, but not in time to stop her headway,
due to high speed and the force of the flood tide. The
Victory claimed that she gave tyro two-blast signals, and
there is a conflict of evidence -as to her position when the
first of them was sounded: The Plymothian heard but one
such signal, just preceding the danger blasts.
The Plymothian came practically to a standstill before the

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Counsel for Parties.

collision, with buoy No. 7 close under her. starboard bow, but
the Victory came on and struck the Plymothian's port side at
the bridge, at an angle variously estimated at from 45 to 60
degrees, penetrating about fifteen inches into the ship, through
her three steel decks, stringer plates and beams. The force
of the blow threw the Plymothian's &ieadaround to the starboard, so that buoy No. 7, which prior to the collision had been
under her starboard bow, was seen to come around in-front of
her stem to her port bow.
The Plymothian rapidly filled with water, and to prevent
her sinking in the channel her engines were put at full speed
ahead until she grounded on the thud fiats to the eastward of
the channel, where she sank in shallow water.- She was subsequently raised, repaired temporarily at Newport News, and
finally in England, on the completion of the voyage. The
Victory was able to proceed to Norfolk. She was also temporarily repaired at Newport News and finally in England.
Of the cargo of 3682 bales of cotton shipped on the Plymothian at Galveston, 1671 bales were shipped under bills of
lading, containing the provisions, among others, that the vessel
should not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by collisions
or other accidents of navigation, even though occasioned by
negligence, and that the contract should be governed "by the
law of the flag of the vessel carrying, the goods."
The other 2011 bales were shipped from interior points
under bills of lading given by the inland carrier to the shipper.
On reaching Galveston this cotton was delivered to the Plymothian, which issued bills of lading or receipts to the inland
carrier, containing the negligence and flag clauses. The bills
of lading given by the inland carriers had the negligence, but
not the flag clause.
J Parker Kirlin and
Plymothian.
.M.

[r. Floyd Hughes for the

.Mr. Robert M. Hughes for the Victory.
M. Wilhelmus Mynderse for the Canton Insurance Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JusTI E FULLFPR, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals concnrred in finding the Victory grossly in fault, and we see no
reason for arriving at any other conclusion. In our opinion
the collision was the direct consequence of the Victory's disregard of the rule of the road and her reckless navigation.
In any aspect of the case, the rule of the road was to keep
to the right.
By rule eighteen of the regulations prescribed by the act of
April 29, 1864, carried forward in section 4233 of the Revised
Statutes, "if two vessels under steam.are meeting end on, or
nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the helms of
both shall be put to port, so that each may pass on the port
side of the other."
The first rule of the supervising inspectors is to the same
effect.'.
1 "RuLE I. - When steamers are approaching each other ' head and head'
or nearly so, it shall be the duty of each steamer to pass to the right or
port side of the other; and the pilot of either steamer may be first in
determining to pursue this course and thereupon shall give as a signal of
his intention one short and distinct blast 6of his steam whistle, which the
pilot of the other steamer shall answer promptly by a similar blast of his
steam whistle, and thereupon such steamers shall pass to the right or port
side of each other ; but if thee course of such steamers is so far on the
starboard of each other as not to be considered by pilots as meeting 'head
and head'or nearly so, the pilot so first deciding shall immediately give two
short and distinct blasts of his steam whistle, which the pilot of the other
steamer shall answer promptly by two similar blasts of his steam whistle,
and they shall pass on the left or on the starboard side of each other.
"NoTE.- In the night, steamers will be considered meeting head and
head so long as both the colored lights on each are in view of the other.
"Second situation. - Here the green light only will be visible to each,
the screens preventing the red light from being seen. They are therefore
passing to starboard, which is rulable in this situation, each pilot having
previously signified his intention by two blasts of the steam whistle."
"1RuLE II. - When steamers are approaching each other in an oblique
direction (as shown in diagram of the fourth situation), they shall pass to
the right of each other, as if meeting head and head or nearly so, and the
signals by whistles shall be given and answered promptly as in that case
specified."

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

And this was proven to be the usage in the navigation of
the Elizabeth River, ahd known to the master of the Victory.
These vessels were approaching each other in such directions and with such bearings as required them to keep to the
right. The distance between Craney Island Light and buoy
No. 9 was about a mile and one eighth. When the Plymothian was at buoy No. 9 the Victory was somewhat to the
north 6f or near Craney Island. As the Plymothian straightened down the channel, opposite buoy 9, she was near the
eastern side and heading straight down the channel course
N. J or E. She was obliged to swing, on leaving the-pier,
to round the buoy, but had steadied down as she passed it.
The evidence thoroughly established -that she was never on
the westerly side of the channel. We think the District Judge
was amply justified in finding as he did that the Plymothian
had not, "in coming out from Lambert's pier, gone over to
the west of the channel near to red buoy No. 22; and had
not, after doing so, recrossed the channel to reach its position
near buoy 9, as claimed by the Victory's counsel. The tide
was not strong enough to force her over there, and it would
have been out of her course to have gone there. The testimony is conclusive to that effect."
The Victory when in the neighborhood of Oraney Island
was either in mid-channel or to the westward of it, and on
the Plymothian's port bow. The Victory's witnesses admitted starboarding twice for different schooners and hardstarboarding just before the collision; but both of the lower
courts, in accordance with the great weight of evidence, found
that the Victory was not prevented by other vessels in the
channel, either from going on the westerly side or from stay"RULr III.-If
when steamers are approaching each other, the pilot of
either vessel fails to understand the course or intention ol the other,
whether from signals being given or answered erroneously, or from other
causes, the pilot so in doubt shall imhmediately signify the same by giving
several short and rapid biasts of the steam whistle; and if the vessels shall
have approached within half a mile of each other, both shall be immediately
slowed to a speed barely sufficient for steerage-way until the proper signals
are given, answered and understood, or until the vessels shall have passed
each other."
VOL. cLxvnI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ing there, while the'testimony of the Victory's pilot indicated
that his object in heading over for the easterly side of the
channel was to cut off some of the distance into port by pass1
ing close to buoys Nos. 7 and 9.
Moreover, as immediately after straightening down the
Plymothian ported a little and then hard-ported, even if the
ictory had been heading at a gradual angle across the channel all the'way from Oraney Island, the vessels would have
been approaching each other from an oblique direction, which
would have brought the inspectors' second rule into lay, that
vessels' so situated "shall pass to the -right of each other as if
head and head, or nearly-so."
The starboard-hand rule had no application. Although
when the Plymothian started from the pier her starboard side
must necessarify have been down stream as she turned, the vessels were-never starboard to starboard after she had rounded
buoy 9 and straightened down the channel and the Victory
had passed Craney Island and stiaightened up S. J W. In-

deed the rule applibable when two vessels "are crossing so as
'to involve risk 'of collision," that "the vessel which has the
other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the way," is
ordinarily inapplicable to vessels coming around bends in channels, which may at times bring one vessel on the starboard of
the other. It has often been held as a general rule of navigation that vessels approaching each other in narrow channels,
or where their courses diverge as much as one and one half or
two points, are bound to keep to port and pass to the right,
whatever the occasional effect of the sinuosities of the channel.
-New York '& Baltimore Transportation Co. v. Pkiladephiq
& Savannah Steam -favigation Co., 22 How. 461; Union
Steamship Co. v. New York* Steamship Co., 24 How. 307;
Te Yanderbilt, 6- Wall. 225; The Johnson, 9 Wall. 146; The
John Z. llasbrouck, 93 U. S. 405; The Berkshire, 33 U. S.
App. 531, 54:0.
It is interesting to note that Union Steamship Co. v. New
York Steamship Co. was a case of collision in the channel of
the Elizabeth River, where the steamship Jamestown, outward bound, took the eastern side of the channel, rounding

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Lambert's Point near the buoy, and proceeded on her course
north one fourth east. She was struck by the Pennsylvania,
coming up, by reason of the Pennsylvania putting her helm to
starboard instead of keeping ler proper course, or porting
when it became known that the Jamestown was approaching; and it was held that the Pennsylvania was solely to
blame.
The .principle was embodied in Article 21 of the International Regulations. adopted by the act of March 3, 1885, c.
354,'23 Stat. 438, providing that "in narrow channels every
steamship shall, when it is safe and practicable, keep to that
side of the fairway or mid-channel, which lies on the starboard side of such ship," which is Article 25 of the Regulations adopted August 19, 1890, c. 802, 26 Stat. 320, and put
in operation, after some postponements and amendments, in
1897, 29 Stat. 885, 893; and of the act of June 7, 1897, 30
Stat. 96, c. 4.
In The .Pekin, (1897) App. Cas. 532, Articles 21 and 22 of
these regulations were considered. Article 21 is given above
and Article 22 reads as follows: "Where by the above rules
one of two ships is to keep out of the way, the other shall
keep her course."
That was an appeal from the decision of the Supreme Court
for China and Japan, sitting in Admiralty, in which the steam'
ship lNormandie was alone held to blame for a collision which
took place between her and the steamship Pekin in the river
Whangpoo on April 3, 1896. The case was thus stated by Sir
Francis Jeune, delivering judgment in the Privy Council: "At
Pootung Point the Whangpoo" makes a sharp bend towards
the south, returning indeed on its course at something more
than a right angle, and to the eastward of that point the
stream is divided by a line of buoys into two navigable channels, the northern being called the inside, and the southern
the outside chinnel. The westernmost of these buoys is
known. as the Old Dock buoy. The Pekin was proceeding
up the inside channel, along the line of buoys, that is to say
on the starboard side of that channel, and the Normandie was
coming down the river to the southward of mid-channel. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

is clear that when near the Old Dock buoy the Pekin ported,
and- that at or about the same time the Normandie starboarded. The Normandie afterwards endeavored to port, but
her helm failed to act owing to what is- termed the 'Chow
Chbw' water, which is, it would appear, a well-known area of
eddies or whirlpools off Pootung Point. The result was that
a collision occurred well to the north of the river, and somewhat to the eastwards of Pootung Point, the stem of the Normandie striking the port bow of the Pekin.
"The evidence is not clear as to the whistles given by the
two vessels. The learned Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
has found -that 'at the same time two blasts of the Normandie's whistle were blown as a signal to -the Pekin, those
on board the Pekin simultaneously blew one blast of her
whistle.2,, Those on the Pekin dispute the double blast of
the-Normandie; but their Lordships think that, accepting
as they do the above finding-as correct, it may well be that
one of the two whistles of theNormandie coincided with the
one whistle of the Pekin, and so those on the Pekin heard
only one whistle from the Normandie, and believed that only
. ..
one was given."
The appeal raised the question of the conduct of both
vessels. The Normandie was held manifestly in fault. As
to the conduct of the Pekin two charges were insisted on
by counsel, and after setting .them forth, the opinion thus
proceeded: "The first of these charges raises the question,
were those two vessels crossing vessels within the meaning
of art. 22? and also the further question whether th Pekin
kept her course? The effect of art. 22 has been made clear
by several authorities. The cases of. The F'eloaity, L. iR. 3
P. C.'44; The Ranger, L. R. 4 P. 0. 519, and T/he Oceano, 3
P. D..60, have explained and illustrated the distinction which
exists in the effect of this rule as regards vessels navigating
the open sea and those passing along the w'inding channels
of rivers. The brossing referred to in art. 22 is Icrossing so
as to involve risk of collision,' and it is obvious that while
two vessels in certain positions and at certain distances in
regard to each other in the open sea may be crossing so as

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIMT.
Opinion of the Court.

to involve risk of collision, it would b completely mistaken
to take the same view of two vessels in the same positions
and distances in the reaches of a winding river. The reason,
of course, is that the vessels must follow, and must be known
to intend to follow, the curves of the river bank. But vessels
may, no doubt, be crossing vessels within art. 22 in a river.
It depends on their presumable courses. If at any time two
vessels, not end on, are seen, keeping the cours es to be expected with regard to them respectively, to be likely to arrive
at the same point at or nearly at the same moment, they are
vessels crossing so as to involve risk of collision; but they are
not so crossing if the course wbich s reasonably to be attributed to either vessel would keep her clear of the other.
The question, therefore, always turns on the reasonable inference to be drawn as to a vessel's future course from her
position at a particular moment, and this greatly depends on
the nature of the locality where she is ht that moment.
"Their Lordships have restated these propositions because
they appear to them decisive of this part of the present case.
They are advised by their assessors, and it appears to them
clear, that, having regard to the features of the locality at
the time the Pekin ported her helm, that is to sayr when she
was near the Old Dock buoy, the vessels were not crossing
vessels within the meaning of art. 22. It was reasonable for
those on the Pekin, as, without fault on their part, they did
not hear the double blast of the iNormandie before they took'
action with their heln, to assume that the Normandie would
take the outside channel, in which case their courses would
not cross, or would take the souithern side of the inside channel, in which case their courses would indeed cross, but not so
as to involve risk of collision."
We ought to add that, in the case before us, even if the
steamers had been so far on the starboard of each other as to
justify the pilots in considering that they were not meeting
"head and head," or nearly so, there was no pretence of an
agreement to go starboard to starboard under Inspectors'
Rule I; nor was this a case for the application of Rule IIL
Testing the Victory's conduct by settled rules, she Was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

plainly in fault for not keeping to the right, and in attempting to cross the Plymothian's course, and her speed renders
her conduct still more blameworthy. It does not seem to be
controverted that at the tihe of leaving the light-house her
speed was five and one half knots through the water, and
there was a tide force of two knots, which would make seven
and one half knots over the ground. The Circuit Court of
Appeals 'found that from Craney Island up her speed through
the water was six or seven miles an hour, with a two-mile tide
assisting her, which would make her speed over the bottom
eight or nine miles. Certainly she must be held to have
known that she was approaching the Plymothian so as to
involve the risk of collision, and should have slackened her
speed under rule twenty-one, and have stopped and reversed
sooner than she did, when she was informed by sight and
hearing- that her effort to crowd the Plymothian off her
rightful course must be unsuccessful.
If she could not port and keep on her own side, she should
have reversed at least as early as when her second two-blast
signal was blown and not assented to by the Plymothian, yet
it was the Plym6thian that immediately reversed on hearing
that signal and blew three danger signals, while the Victory
did not blow her danger signals until after that, and manifestly did not reverse as early as the Plymothian. At the
collision the Plymothian's headway had been stopped, but the
Victory, had such headway on, that she threw the Plymothian's bows around to starboard, while her own bows cut
through the Plymothian's three decks and stringer plates a distance of at least fifteen inches, and were damaged as far back
as three feet.
None of the excuses the Victory set up for being on the
wrong side of the channel tended to palliate her guilt. The
only time at which the Plymothian could have been on the
Victory's starboard bow was when the Victory was below
Craney Island, and she was bound to govern herself by the
bearings of the vessels as they were after she straightened up
the channel course from the Craney Island south, and then
the vessels were port to port. 1The Victory met a few steam-

THE VIOTORY & THE P)LYMOTHIAK.

423

Opinion of the Court.

ers, but her captain and pilot admitted that they did not force
the Victory out of her course, and they- were passed near
Craney Island, or the light-house, or far below the place of collision. So there were two or three schooners in the channel,
but both the courts below found that they did not prevent
the Victory from doing her duty by porting and keeping to the
right, and her presence near them at all was attributable to
her having left the western side of the channel.
We need not elaborate in view of the concurrence of the
courts below, and have gone so far into the evidence on this
branch of the case because it illustrates the"point on which
those courts were at variance.
As between these vessels, the fault of the Victory being
obvious and inexcusable, the evidence to establish fault'on the
part of the Plymothian must be clear and convincing in order
to make a case for apportionment. The burden of proof is
upon each vessel to establish fault on the part of the other.
The recognized doctrine is thus stated by Mr. Justice
Brown in 1 e Umbria*.166 U. S. 404, 409 : "Indeed, so gross
was the fault of the Umbria in this connection that we should
unhesitatingly apply the rule laid down in The City of New
York, 147 U. S. 72, 85, and The Ludvig Eolberg, 157 U. S.
60, 71, that any doubts regarding the management of the
other vessel, or the contribution of her faults, if any, to the
collision, should be resolved in her favor."
"Collision" was an exception in all the bills of lading, and,
laying out of view the "negligence" and "flag" clauses, as
the damage was occasioned by collision and within the exception, it rested upon the underwriters in this case to defeat the
operation of the exception, by proof of such negligence on the
part of the Plymothian as would justify a decree against her
if sued alone. Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272, 280; Transporlatiom Co. v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129; The City of Hartford
and the Unit, 97 U. S. 323, 325; The. Ludvig Ellberg, 157
U. S. 60.
Apparently it is a hardship for the underwriters on the
Plymothian's cargo to be compelled to bear a portion of their
own loss, but if the Plymothian was free from fault, this is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

merely the result of the Limitation of Liability Acts, the value
of the Victory not being sufficient to pay the entire damages
sustained.The Circuit Court of Appeals and the District Court arrived
at different conclusions in respect of the Plymothian's entire
freedom from fault. The District Court held that the Plymothian was without blame, while the Circuit Court of Appeals
was of opinion that she was not wholly blameless, because she
kept her course' "without taking any precaution whatever
until too late, and when the pending collision became inevitable." Whether she may not have been slightly in fault
may be a close question. This is often so when subsequent
knowledge of what might have prevented disaster tends to
qualify the inquiry as to the prior duty to avert it. But, after
all, the question is, as pointed out by Mr. Justice McLean in
Wigliamson v. Barrett, 13 How. 101, whether it was the duty
of the master, in the exercise of due care and caution in the
management of his vessel, to give a particular order. And on
a careful consideration of the evidence, we think that the Plymothian was nof bound to change her course, or to stop and
reverse earlier than she did, and these are the only elements
of fault imputed to hdr.
Were the pcsition and course and signals of the Victory such
that the Plymothian was bound to. change her course or to
stop and reverse sooner than she did?
The Plymothian in passing the buoy straightened down
the channel course on the easterly side. The only change she
made after straightening down was by porting her helm,
which put her closer to the easterly edge of the channel at
the time of the collision. She left her pier at four o'clock P.3r.,
under half speed until she rounded the buoy, when the engines
were put full speed ahead, 767 yards from the point of collision.
The full speed of the Plymothian was seven knots. The tide
was running against her with a force of two knots. She had
her engines at full speed against the tide perhaps five minutes,
and both the courts below found her speed over the ground
was about four miles an hour. The Victory blew two doubleblast signals and a three-blast signal before the collision.

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

The evidence of her crew was that the two-blast signals were
sounded within a half a minute or a minute of each other,
when the steamer was half way between Oraney Island and
buoy No. 7, and that the three blasts followed a minute or
so later. The Plymothian heard only one two-blast signal
and the .three-blast' signal, at that time, as appeared from
disinterested evidence on both sides. None of these independent witnesses heard two double-blasts and a three-blast
signal from the Victory in short succession. All of them,
who saw or heard the first two blasts, testified that that signal
was blown when the Victory was to the north of or about
Craney Island. And, in her petition for limitation of liability,
the Victory claimed to have blown that signal "soon after
passing Craney Island Light," and placed the Plymqthian at
that time as "apparently starting down the river fron .opposite
Lambert's Point." But if she blew two blasts twice, where
her captain and pilot said she did, they were blown close together. The Plymothian's evidence showed that she heard
but one, and if the Victory blew two blasts twice within such
a short interval as she claims, it would seem that one of them
overlapped the whistle from the Plymothian, or it may be
that the last two blasts were overlapped by the Plymothian's
danger signal.
The evidence largely preponderates that only one signal of
two blasts and the signal of three blasts could be heard in
the neighborhood of the Plymothian at the time the Victory
claims she repeated the two-blast signal and followed it up
with three; and we think that the conclusion is sustained by
the weight of evidence that the Victory's first two-blast signal was blown before she passed Oraney Island, when the
,vessels were so far apart that the Plymothian would not have
been bound to stop if she had heard or seen that signal, and
as there were at least two river steamboats between the
vessels at the time, her pilot might well have supposed that
the Victory's two blasts were intended for one of them rather
than for him. However, the Plymothian did not see or hear.
that signal and cannot be held in fault as contributing to the
collision because she failed to see or hear what would not have

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

been followed by any change of course; and if there were
two two-blast signals within a half a minute, then it is fair to
conclude on the evidence that one of them was overlapped by
the whistle of the Plymothian. The Plymothian acted immediately and effectively on hearing the two-blast signal she
did hear and succeeded in stopping her headway, and this
when the risk of collision first appeared, which was when the
Victory last starboarded. The course of the Victory was, we
have said,. along 'mid-channel or to the west of it, and did not
involve a risk of collision until she made a change to port
under a starboard helm, just before sounding the two-blast
signal heard by the Plymothian. Her Witnesses admit that
they were starting straight up the channel after passing
Craney Island Light, heading S. J W. The channel course
below Craney Island, as shown by the chart, was S. by E., and
in heading S. J W. her helm must have been, ported, and the
vessels were port to port. The testimony of the Plymothian's
officers and crew was to the effect that the Victory was on
their port bow all the way up from below Craney Island to
the point where she changed her course just before blowing a
two-blast signal, and they are corroborated by independent
and disinterested witiesses. The Victory's witnesses testified
to starboarding for two or three schooners, who were near
the point of collision, and this would account for her sheer to
port, as observed on the Plymothian, 'when she took her precautions for safety. Each of these vessels was entitled to
presume that the other would act lawfully; would keep to her
own side; if temporarily crowded out of her course, would
return to it as soon as possible; and that she would pursue
the customary track of vessels in the channel, regulating her
action so as to avoid danger. The Servia,149 U. S. 144; The
City of New York, 147 U. S. 72; Belden v. Chase, 150 U. S.
674.
The rfile applicable to them was that each should keep to
her own starboard side of the channel. So long as the vessels
were port to port, the Plymothian, proceeding at moderate
speed, was not bound to stop and reverse on the chance that
the other vessel might depart from the rules of navigation.

THE VICTORY & T1E

PLYMOTHIAI{.

427 -

Opinion of the Court.

Nor would the Plymothian necessarily have been bound to
stop and reverse at once if she had heard a two-blast signal
from the Victory at the time when the Victory claims to have
blown it. That was, the Victory says, half way between
buoy No. 7 and Craney Island, which would, be six hundred
yards from the buoy, while the Plymothian was three hundred yards above the buoy, which would make the distance
between the vessels nine hundred yards or a half a mile, as
the district judge found. The Plymothian was entitled to
rely on her repeated single blast to correct the error of the
Victory until it was made apparent by a further cross signal
or from a change of heading that she was persisting in her
wrongful course.
The case of The Stephanotis and The Horton, cited to us
from the Shipping Gazette and Lloyd's List, of July 26, 1894,
was similar in its main features to the one before us. The
collision occurred on the river Tyne. On the part of the
Stephanotis it appeared that she was bound up on the north.
side of the channel, at a moderate speed, in a snow storm,
when the Horton was observed about two hundred and fifty
yards off, also on the north side of the river, in such a position as to make it impracticable for the Stephanotis to pass
up between the Horton and the buoys. She thereupon
sounded two short blasts and starboarded her helm, afterwards
repeating the signal. A short blast was then heard from the
Horton, which was seen to be ap'proaching as if u- der a port
helm. The Stephanotis came ahead, helm a-starboard, her
engines going full speed ahead, as the only means of avoiding
a collision. The case for the Horton was that she was keeping to the south of mid-channel, going down the river at the
rate of about four knots. The Stephanotis was seen coming
up the river half a mile away, bearing right ahead. The
Stephanotis thereupon blew one blast, and the Horton responded with one blast, and then ported and steadied her
helm. When the vessels were in a position to clear port to
port, the Stephanotis blew two short blasts, and the Horton,
after replying with one short blast, again slightly ported her
helm. The Stephanotis,. however, blew two more blasts, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

as she was then seen to be under a starboard helm, the Horton's whistle was blown a short blast, and her engines were
set full speed astern, but the Stephanotis struck tne Horton,
doing her great damage.
The Master of the Rolls, Lord Esher, said:
"The. advice which we have received from the gentlemen
who assist us is precisely that which truck me the moment I
heard the circumstances of this case. The advice to us is that
there was time and distance for the Stephanotis to have
ported after the Horton blew one blast, and thai the master
of the Horton might reasonably have expected that he would
do so. When the master or pilot of the Horton heard the
first two whistles which were the beginning of the other
man's starboarding, and when at that moment starboarding
could have but little effect, he had a right reasonably to suppose that the man who at that moment was starboarding his
helm, or .Nvas beginning to do so, seeing him there, and being
told by him that he was porting, would have ample time-and
distance, if he did not choose to persist in starboarding, to
have put his helm to port, or to have ceased starboarding, and
then they would have gone clear. But he persisted in starboarding. Then comes the question, ought the pilot or captain of the Horton to have stopped br reversed, or stopped
even, at that moment when the other was beginning to starboard? The answer is that his beginning to starboard could
hardly have been for the Horton,. but must have been for
some other reason, and that the master and pilot of the Horton might reasonably have supposed that when, if anybody
had looked, they must have seen the Horton, and must have
known that the Horton was porting --they had a right to
suppose that the Stephanotis would stop starboarding immediately, and would have ported her helm. If so it was not
unreasonable and unseamanlike, I think, for the Horton to
keep on as she did. By the time that two ship's lengths were
passed over by the two vessels approaching each other -that
is, the time of.the second blast -the, collision was inevitable.
It seems to me that the judgment of the President, and the
advice of his Trinity Masters, Was too severe. It was requir-

THE VICTORY & THE PLYMOTHIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ing men to do what no man ought to be expected to do under
such strange circumstances. Therefore, with great deference,
I disagree with the severity of their sentence, and think the
Stephanotis ought to be held solely to blame."
Similar views were expressed by Judge Brown of the
Southern District of New York in Tie Florence, 68 Fed.
Rep. 940.
In respect of both these vessels, the captain was acting as
lookout on the bridge, but there was no lookout stationed on
the bows. Can it be said that the absence of such a lookout
on the Plymothian contributed to the injury? Hler captain,
pilot and third officer were all on the bridge and the view
was clear and unobstructed. Would a lookout on the bows
have heard or seen more than they did? The bearing of this
inquiry is, of course, on the failure of the Plymothian to
detect the first alleged two-blast signal blown by the Victory.
We have already indicated that the evidence is to our minds
satisfactory that that two-blast signal was blown when the
Victory was below Craney Island Light House. If so, the
vessels were a mile and one eighth apart and the Victory was
on the Plymothian's port bow. The Plymothian blew three
single-blast signals after that time, and neither of them was
dissedted from by the Victory until the last one, and the proper
manoeuvres to avoid the risk then created were promptly taken.
But, if it were assumed that the first two-blast signal was blown
when the Victory was half way between Craney Island and
buoy No. '7, the vessels were still half a mile apart, with room
to correct the proposed erroneous course. And if the Victory
blew her second two-blast signal inside of a half minute after
the first, as her witnesses testified, and the Plymothian upon
hearing one of the two immediately acted on it, the failure to
hear the bther cannot be considered a fault under the circumstances.
We are of opinion that the Plymothian was on her proper
course; that she was not bound to anticipate the conduct of
the Victory; and that she took all proper precautions as soon
as chargeable with notice of risk of collision. The result is
that we agree with the District Court in the conclusion that

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the Victory was wholly to blame and that the Plymothian
was free from fault.
-Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, the costs
of that court to be equally divided between the owners of
the Victory and the underwriters; decree of the 1)istrict
Court afflrmed; costs in this court for preparing and
printing the record to be paid by the owners of the Vietoiwy, all other costs in this court to be divided equdlly
between the owners of the Victory and the underwriters.

MUSE v. ARLINGTON, HOTEL COMPAI-TY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS;
No. 59. Argued October 26, 27, 189T.-Decided December 6, 1897.

A case may be said to involve the cobistruction or application of the Constitutiofi of the United States when a title, right, privilege or immunity
'is claimed under that inptrument; but a definite issue in respect to the
possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the record,
before the judgment of the court below can be -revised on the ground of
error in the disposal of such a claim by its decision.
The same rule being applicable in respect of the validity or construction of
treaty, some right, title, privilege or immunity, dependent on the treaty,
must be so set up or-claimed as to require the Circuit Court to pass on the
question of validity or construction in disposing of the right asserted.
In respect of the, plaintiff's case as stated in their complaint, the Circuit
Court decided no question as to the application or construction of the
Constitution, or the validity or construction of the' treaty, and this
court is 'withont jurisdiction to review the action of that court.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
Margaret A. Muse and others filed their original complaint
in ejectment against the Arlington: Hotel Company, July 25,
1894, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the EasterEj
District of Arkansasto which defendant demurred. Pending
the demurrer, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, in which
they averred that defendant was "a corporation organized

