UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
Syllabus.

cation to the comptroller to cancel the sale, or by action of
ejectment against the comptroller or the forest commissioners.
But as that court has uniformly held that he had a remedy, it
is not for us to determine what that remedy was under the
local constitution and laws.
It was also argued"that the plaintiff in error was in possession of the land and could not be put to his action. But the
decision below that he was not in possession involved no
Federal question, or any other question of law, but a mere
inference of fact from the evidence, which this court is not
authorized to review on writ of error. Dower v. Riohard8,
151 U. S. 658; .Eganv. Hart, 165 U. S. 188.
Judgment affrmed.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
CERTIFIOATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEOOND CIRCUIT.
No. 85. Argued and submitted October 14, 189T. -Decided

October 25, 189T.

Where imported foreign goods are entered at a custom house for consumption, the payment by the importer of the full amount ot duties ascertained to be due upon the liquidation of the entry of the merchandise,
as well as the giving notice of dissatisfaction or protest, within ten
days after the liquidation of such duties, is not necessary in order to
enable a protesting importer to have the exaction and classification
reviewed by a board of general appraisers and by the courts, under the
provision in section 14 of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131,
137, "That the decision of the collector as to the rate and amount of
duties chargeable upon imported merchandise, including all dutiable
costs and charges, and as to all fees and exactions of whatever character (except duties on tonnage), shall be final and conclusive against all
persons interested therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee, or
agent of such merchandise, or the person paying such fees, charges, and
exactions other than duties, shall within ten days after, Ibut not
before,' such ascertainment and liquidation of duties, as well in cases of
merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, or within ten days
after the payment of such fees, charges and exactions, if dissatisfied
with such decision, give notice in writing to the collector, setting forth
therein distinctly and specifically, and in respect to each entry or pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
. Statement of the Case.
ment, the reasons for his objections thereto, and if the merchandise is
entered for consumption shall pay the full amount of the duties and
charges ascertained to be due thereon."
The primary and general rule of statutory construction is thae the intent of
the law-maker is to be found in the language that he has used; and the
cases are few and exceptional in whitch the letter of the statute is not
deemed controlling, and only arise when there are cogent reasons for
believing that the letter does not fully justify and accurately disclose
the intent.

THE 14th section of the act of Congress, approved June 10,

1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131,, 137, is as follows:
"That the decision of the collector as to the rate and
amount of duties chargeable upon imported merchandise,
including all dutiable costs and charges, and as to all fees and
exactions of whatever character, (except duties on tonnage,)
shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested
therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee, or agent of
such merchandise, or the person paying such fees, charges,
and exactions other than duties shall, within ten days after
'but not before ' such ascertainment and liquidation of duties,
as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond as for
consumption, or, within ten days after the payment of such
fees, charges, and exactions, if dissatisfied with such decision
give notice in writing to the collector, setting forth therein
distinctly and specifically, and in respect to each entry or
payment, the reasons for his objections thereto, and if the
merchandise is entered for consumption shall pay the full
amount of the duties and charges ascertained to be due
thereon. Upon such notice and payment the collector shall
transmit the invoice and all the papers and exhibits connected
therewith to the board of three general appraisers, wlich shall
be on duty at the port of N'ew York, or to a board of three
general appraisers who may be designated by the Secretary
of the Treasury for such duty at that port, or at any other
port, which board shall examine and decide the case thus submitted, and their decision, or that of a majority of them, shall
be final and conclusive upon all persons interested therein,
and the record shall be transmitted to the proper collector or
person acting as such who shall liquidate the entry accord-

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
Argument for the United States.

ingly, except in cases where an application shall be filed in the
Circuit Court within the time and in the manner provided for
in section fifteen of this act."
Upon this section, after stating the facts of this case showing its pertinency, the. Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second
Circuit has certified to us the following question:
"Was the payment of the full amount of the duties ascertained to be due upon the liquidation of the entry of the
merchandise, required to be made by the importers, as well as
the giving notice of dissatisfaction or protest, within ten days
after the liquidation of such duties, where the goods, as in the
present case, were entered for consumption, in order to enable
the protesting importers to have the exaction and classification reviewed by the board of general appraisers and by the
courts? "
M'. Attorney General,for the United States, submitted upon
the brief filed April 1, 1897, by Mr. Edward B. Whitney, then
Assistant Attorney General.

Upon the present record the point appears very technicail.
The importer failed by but a single day to pay his dues
within the time limited. Such accidents are rare and due to
the importer's own carelessness or that of his agents. The
question is an important one, however, because under the importers' construction of the statute they may and sometimes
do indefinitely postpone a review of the collector's decision
by simply refusing to pay the duties.
The practice was stated as follows by the Secretary of the
Treasury to Attorney General Miller. "The practical result
of this ruling is an accumulation in the custom houses of large
numbers of protests, which may be made for speculative
purposes, and which are not promptly transmitted to the
Board of General Appraisers because of the failure of the
importers to pay the increased duties against the exaction of
which they file their protest. The importers are thus enabled
to take the initiatory step in suits for recovery of duties, full
payment of which has not been made, and delay indefinitely
VOL. CLXVIII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for the United States.-

the decision by the General Appraisers of the question raised
by the protest, with a view of taking advantage of decisions
which may hereafter be made in other cases, thereby defeat.
ing one of the chief purposes of the administrative act, which
was to secure the. prompt disposition of questions arising
under the tariff laws and discourage the filing of mere speculative protests."
Attorney General Miller therefore states the question as
follows: "Whether the payment of duties thereby required
must, like the protest, be made within ten days after liquidation, or, to state the question differently, whether Congress
intended to favor the importer, by permitting him not only to
have possession of his goods, but to keep the Government out
of its revenue at pleasure, or, certainly, until judgment could
be recovered against him in a plenary suit, outside the statute
of June 10, 1890; for it is precisely this advantage that is
given the importer by the decision of the Board of General
Appraisers of November 26, 1890, as the obstructive practice
complained of shows."
A literal interpretation of the statute favors the importers.
This is due to the repetition of the word "shall" before the
words "pay the full amount of the duties." If this second
"shall,' were omitted, the literal interpretation of the statute
would favor the Government contention.
The consequences of a literal interpretation of the statute
are so remarkable that even Judge Townsend, in sustaining
the importers' contention in the present case, does not adhere
to it. He in effect inserts after the second "shall" the
ambiguous words "within a reasonable time."
The Government contends that the second "shall" was
inadvertently used and should be disregarded.
The general principles of construction applicable to this
case are familiar. Revenue laws, like other laws, "should be
so construed as to carry out the intention of the legislature
in passing them." Oliquot's Champagne, 3 Wall. 114, 145;
United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1, 12. If, therefore, the
wording of a clause is such as clearly to indicate that it
requires correction in order to effectuate the intent of the

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
Argument for the United States.

legislature, the correction will be made either by striking out
a word which has inadvertently crept in, or substituting one
word for another. Union Ins. Co. v. United States, 6 Wall.
759, 764. A recent instance of the rule that the intent
governs the letter is to be found in .AHc~ee v. United States,
164 U. S. 287.
These cases are especially applicable when, as here, the sentence to be construed is long and involved, so that an error
might easily creep in and remain unnoticed;. and still more,
when the sentence bears indubitable evidence of carelessness
of construction. The quotation marks about the words "but
not before" in this sentence show that it was never revised
by a skilful hand. Such errors of style as the repetition of
this word "shall" at the wrong place are common, and are
much less likely to catch or offend the eye than these sporadic
quotation marks.
Strictly speaking, Judge 'Townsend is correct in saying that
this statute contains no ambiguity. As, however, it contains
the strongest evidence of unskilful construction, the court is
at liberty to correct a plain mistake if it is impossible to
reconcile the literal interpretation of the statute with its
clear intent.
The statute makes a distinction between merchandise entered
in bond and merchandise entered for consumption. The former words are equivalent to merchandise entered for warehouse. Since 1846 imported merchandise (regularly entered)
has been classified into merchandise entered for consumption
and merchandise entered for warehouse. The provisionally
estimated duties upon the former class of merchandise must
be paid before the importer can get possession of his property.
Duties upon the latter class are payable at any time within
three years at the importer's option. The history of this system is set forth in Barnney v. Riceard, 157 U. S. 352, and the
system still exists.
The reason for omitting the requirement of payment in the
case of merchandise entered for warehouse is clear. If the
requirement were extended to that class of merchandise, it
would prevent any settlement of the legal questions involved

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for the United States.

until the importer was ready to withdraw his goods from warehouse; or it would require him to pay the duties while the goods
were still in warehouse, and thus destroy the advantages of
the warehouse system.
On the other hand, it is clear that the requirement is unnecessary as to the estimated duties which the importer must
pay in order to get possession of goods which are entered for
consumption.
The importance of the question is in relation to duties upon
goods which have gone into the possession of the importer
upon payment of the amount estimated by the collector at the
time of the original entry, which estimate is thereafter found
to have been too low. This clAss of importations contains a
considerable proportion of those which are accompanied by
fraud. ' The provisional estimate of duties is of course usually
based upon the statements in the invoice. When the collector finds upon the final estimate or so called "liquidation"
of the duties that his estimate was too low, the goods have
passed into the importer's hands, and the Government's sole
remedy is by suit. Instances of such suits are to be found in
United States v. &chlesinger,120 U. S. 109, and Patton v.
United States, 159 U. S. 500.
What is the effect of a literal interpretation upon such
entries ?
The finality of the collector's decision is destroyed by filing
the-protest. Until decision by the Board of General Appraisers, it remains open to .review. No decision fiom the
Board of Appraisers can be obtained until the importer pays
the full amount of the duties and charges. The importer
thus has it in his power to postpone indefinitely or forever any
decision of these questions under the Customs Administrative
Act. Meanwhile the Government may sue him; but the
questions of fact, being undecided by the proper tribunal, will
have to be submitted to a jury. The dutiable valuation of the
goods is, indeed, already settled under ยง 13 of the act (replacing ยง 2930 of the Revised Statutes), but many questions of
fact may remain open, such as "1the controlling use of the
article in question; or its similitude to some other article; or

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.
Argument for the United States.

the values of its component materials; or its weight and fitness;
or whether labor is necessary to fit it for use by the consumer; or its commercial designation." Sonn v. .agone,
159 U. S. 417, 422.
These questions of fact, together with the questions of law
involved, must be submitted to the Board of Appraisers if the
importer so elect, by paying the duties and charges. Otherwise they go to the court and jury. Is there any reason why
the importer should be given such a right of election? - Is it
consonant with thb intent and purpose of the Customs Administrative Act, as shown either by its well known history or by its
internal evidence? Was it not the main purpose of the act to
provide a special tribunal for the trial of all such questions of
fact and law, and withdraw all questions of tariff interpretation
from juries?
That this cannot be the true construction of the statute is
recognized by Judge Townsend, who, therefore, instead of
striking out the second "shall," inserts thereafter the words
"C
within a reasonable time." But does this interfere any less
with the letter of the statute than does the simple emendation
which we suggest? Does it not rather import into it an
altogether unworkable condition? Who is to decide whether
the payment was made within a reasonable time? The collector, by transmitting or withholding the papers? Is he an
officer who is likely to be charged by Congress with the decision of such a question as reasonableness of time? Yet his
decision, if he shall see fit to withhold the papers, is final and
conclusive. It cannot be controlled by a writ of mandamus
outside of the District of Columbia.
4cIntire v. Wood, '7
Cranch, 504; .M'Clung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598. Nor even
in the District of Columbia can the courts interfere, either by
mandamus or by mandatory injunction, with the decision of
an executive officer upon a question involving the exercise of
discretion. Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; Gaines v.
Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; Litchfteld v. Register and Receiver,
9 Wall. 575; Redjeld v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636; International Contracting Co. v. -Lamont, 155 U. S. 303.
Yet, if reasonableness of time is the test, it must be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

collector who is to decide it. It cannot be intended that his
ruling should be reviewed upon a jury trial afterwards.
The learned District Judge,. in attempting to escape from
the manifest impossibility of a literal interpretation of this
statute, fell into another untenable position. It is impossible
to believe that Congress intended to give the importer a choice
of forum while denying that privilege to the United States.
It is almost as hard to believe that Congress intended to make
the right of review when the payment is not made within ten
days dependent upon the permission of the collector, or even
of his superior, the Secretary of the Treasury.
If, however, this court shall adopt Judge Townsend's theory,
and thus in effect give the Secretary of the Treasury the
right to impose a limit by general regulation upon the time
within which the importer may obtain a review in such cases,
the decision in the case at bar will avoid all evils.
.M'.
Edwin B. Smith for appellees.
MR. JSTI5IE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question must be answered in the negative. Such
answer is demanded by the obvious and natural import of the
language, givingto it the ordinary grammatical construction.
This is practically conceded by counsel for the Government,
for he says in his brief "a literal interpretation of the statute
favors the importers"; and again, referring to the opinion of
District Judge Townsend, he adds, "strictly speaking, Judge
Townsend is correct in saying that this statute contains no
ambiguity." There are two separate clauses, each prescribing
a condition. One is, "shall within ten days after 'but not

before'

.

.

.

give notice," etc., and the other, "shall pay

the full amount of the duties," etc. In the latter no time is
mentioned, and, the clauses being independent, there is no
grammatical warrant for taking the specification of time from
the one and incorporating it in the other.
The primary and general rule of statutory construction is
that the intent *of the lawmaker is to be found in the ]an-

UNITED STATES v. GOLDENBERG.

"103

Opinion of the Court.

guage that he has used. He is presumed to know the meaning of words and the rules of grammar. The courts have no.
function of legislation, and simply seek to ascertain the will
of the legislator. It is true there are cases in which the
letter of the statute is not deemed controlling, but the cases
are few and exceptional, and only arise when there are cogent
reasons for believing that the letter does not fully and accurately disclose the intent. No mere omission, no mere failure
to provide for contingencies, which it may seem wise to have
specifically provided for,-justify any judicial addition to the
language of the statute. In the case at bar the omission to
make specific provision for the time of payment does not
offend the moral sense; Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457; it involves no injustice, oppression or
absurdity, United State8 v. ffirby, 7 Wall. 482; McKee v.
United States, 164: U. S. 287; there is no overwhelming
necessity for applying in the one clause the same limitation
of time which is provided in the other. NYon constat but that
Congress believed it had sufficiently provided for payment by
other legislation in reference to retaining possession until
payment or security therefor; or that it failed to appreciate
the advantages which counsel insists will inure to the importer in case payment does not equally with protest follow
within ten days from the action of the collector; or that,
appreciating fully those advantages, it was not unwilling that
he should enjoy them. Certainly, there is nothing which
imperatively requires the court to supply an omission in the
statute, or to hold that Congress must have intended to do
that which it has failed to do. Under these circumstances,
all that can be determined is that Congress has not specifically provided that payment shall be made within ten days
as one of the conditions of challenging the action of the collector, and hence there is no warrant for enforcing any such
condition.
An answer in the negative must be certifFed to the Circuit
Court of Apj~eals.

