THE RESOLUTE.
Syllabus.

was indeed sustained, but that was as matter of construction,
and the constitutionality of the act if held to apply to the
claim, rather than to the amenability of the United States
to suit, was not considered; nor does it appear that the judgment of the Circuit Court was invoked upon it. In this court
it was contended for plaintiffs in error that the act was an
enabling act authorizing suits to be brought against the United
States, which otherwise could not have been maintained; that
the limitation operated on the jurisdiction and not on the right;
and that to bar title if suit were not brought within ninety
days was so unreasonable that the intention to do so could
not be imputed to Congress.
These forcible suggestions
would undoubtedly have been accorded due weight by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but we are unable to deal with
them on this writ.
The Circuit Court also held that plaintiffs' title failed because of non-compliance with the Spanish law. It was not
pretended that the treaty, the validity of which was confessedly not in dispute, could be so construed as to compel
judicial recognition of unconsummated claims, and it was for
the Circuit Court to determine into what category the alleged
grant fell. In doing so, the construction of the treaty was
not drawn in question in any manner.
Wr'it of error dirissed.

MR. sJUSTIOE
HARLAw and MR. JusTicE WHrT dissented.

THE RESOLUTE, DOWSETT, Libellant.
THE RESOLUTE, WILSON, Libellant.
APPEA.LS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 135, 136. SubmItted November 12, 189T.-Decided December 6, 1897.

A District Court of the United States has jurisdiction of a libel of a vessel
for seamen's wages, which, accrued while the vessel was in the custody
of a receiver appointed by a state court upon the foreclosure of a mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
gage upon the property of a railroad company, oWner'of the vessel, the
vessel having been sold and passed into the purchaser's hands, and the
receiver discharged when the warrant of arrest was served.
The remedy against the decree of the District Court was an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals.

No. 135 was an appeal from the District Court for, the District of Oregon, awarding to the libellant, George Dowsett,
the suri of $825.50 due to him individually, and the further
sum 6f $358.02 due to him as the assignee of one Tellefson,

for wages as seamen upon the tug Resolute. The tug was
engaged in the business of towing vessels and barges on and
over the bar between Yaquina Bay and the Pacific Ocean, and
the waters tributary thereto, within the District of Oregon.
The libel, which was filed on April-26, 1894, was in the
ordinary form of a libel for seamen's wages, except that it
alleged that the vessel was at that time in the hands of a
receiver of a Circuit Court for the State of Oregon. Upon
application being made for a warrant for arrest, it was refused upon the ground that the tug was within the custody
of a receiver of a state court. Subsequently, and on February
25,1895, upon affidavit that the receiver had been discharged
and the property sold, the order denying the warrhnt of arrest
and directing that the libel remain in abeyance until the tug
should be discharged from the custody of the state court, was
vacated, and a warrant of arrest ordered to issue. The tug
having been released upon bond given, the libel was thereupon amended by alleging that while the said services were
being rendered the steam tug was in charge of a receiver
appointed by the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon, and
that she had since been sold to parties having notice of libellant's claim and had been discharged from such receivership.
Exceptions were thereupon filed to the libel upon the ground
that it showed that when the services were rendered, the
steam tug was in charge of, and operated by, a receiver of
the Oregon and Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation, the
owner of said steam tug; and that no maritime or other lien
had arisen by reason-of such employment, or by the rendition of such services; and also that the court had no juris-

THE RESOLUTE.
Opinion of the Court.

diction in the premises. Upon a hearing before the court,
these exceptions were overruled and leave given to answer
the amended libel.
Claimants having elected not to answer the libel, their
default was entered, and a final decree awarded in favor of
the libellant in the amount claimed by him; whereupon the
claimants prayed an appeal to this c6urt; and the District
Court certified that "the only question arising upon said
appeal is the question as to whether or not, under the facts
stated in the amended libel and the exceptions thereto, this
court acquired or had jurisdiction to pronounce the said
decree." A motion was made to dismiss the appeal for want
of jurisdiction.
Mr. L. B. Cox, Mr. W. W. Cotton, .Mr. Thomas O'Day
and -Mr. 0. . Lord for the motion to dismiss; and for the
respondents.
Mir. Williafn T. .7iuir and Mr. John T. Whalley opposing,
and for the claimants.
MR. JusTicE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sole question presented by the record in this case is
whether the court was correct in assuming jurisdiction of a
libel for seamen's wages, which accrued while the vessel was
in the custody of a receiver, appointed by a state court, upon
the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the property of the Oegon
and Pacific Railroad Company, owner of the tug.
Jurisdiction is the power to adjudicate a case upon the merits,
and dispose of it as justice may require. As applied to a suit
in rem for the breach of a maritime contract, it presupposes,
first, that the contract sued upon is a maritime contract; and,
second, that the property proceeded against is within the lawful custody of the court. These are the only requirements
necessary to give jurisdiction. Proper cognizance of the parties
and subject-matter being conceded, all other matters belong
to the merits.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention of libellant is that, as a maritime lien is the
sole foundation of a-proceeding in rem, such facts must be
averred as to show that a lien arose in the particular case; or,
at least, that if the libel shows that a lien could not have
existed, it should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The
averment relied upon in this libel is that the vessel was at the
time the services were rendered in the hands of a receiver appointed by a state court. This fact, however, is not absolutely
inconsistent with a lien in rem for seamen's wages. Paxson
v. Cunningham,63 Fed. Rep. 132. It may have been expressly
bargained for by the receiver, it may be implied from the
peculiar circumstances under which the services were rendered, or it might be held to have arisen from the peremptory
language of the statute, Rev. Stat. ยง 4535, that "no seaman
shall, by any agreement other than is provided by this title,
forfeit his lien upon the ship, or be deprived of any remedy
for the recovery of his wages to which he would otherwise
have been entitled, and every stipulation in any agreement
inconsistent with any provison of this title

.

.

.

shall

be wholly inoperative." Primafacie, the rendition of mariner's services imports a lien, and the mere fact that the vessel
is navigated by a receiver does not necessarily negative such
lien, although there may be facts in the particular case to show
that the above statute does not apply, or that credit was expressly given to the owner, to the charterer or to some third
person. In fact, the question of lien or no lien is not one of
jurisdiction, but of merits.
It is true that there can be no decree in rem against the
vessel except for the enforcement of a lien given by the maritime law, or by a state law; but if the existence of such a
lien were a question of jurisdiction, then nearly every question
arising upon the merits could be made one of jurisdiction.
Thus, supplies furnished to a vessel import a lien only when
they are sold upon her credit-; and the defence ordinarily
made to such claims is that they were sold upon the personal
credit of the owner or charterer; but certainly it could not be
claimed that this was a question of jurisdiction. The existence
of a lien for collision depends upon the question of fault or no

THE RESOLUTE.
Opinion of the Court.

fault, but it never was heard of that it thereby became a
question of jurisdiction. Salvage services, too, ordinarily import a lien of the very highest rank; but it has sometimes
been held that, if such services are rendered by seamen in the
employ of a wrecking tug, or by a municipal fire department,
no lien arises, for the reason that the men are originally employed for the very purpose of rescuing property from perils
of the sea, or loss by fire. In the case under consideration a
portion of the libellant's claim arises by assignment from
Tellefson, and the authorities are almost equally divided upon
the question whether such assignment carries the lien of the
assignor to his assignee. Obviously these are not jurisdictional questions.
In determining the question of a lien in the case under consideration much may depend upon the manner in which the
vessels were sold by the receiver. Were they sold in bulk,
and merely as a part of the entire property of the insolvent
corporation, upon the foreclosure of the mortgage, or was
each vessel sold separately, and subject to the liens for mariner's wages which accrued before and while they were in the
possession of the receiver? Did the order direct these vessels
to be sold free of maritime liens, or subject to them, or was it
silent in this particular? Were the lienholders upon these
vessels paid from the purchas& money, according to their relative rank, as they would have been had the sale been conducted by a court of admiralty? If they were, that would
amount to very strong, if not conclusive, evidence against the
subsequent endeavor to enforce the liens in a court of admiralty.
We cannot assume that the court would authorize its receiver
to run these vessels without making some provision for a preferential payment of their current expenses. .Meyer v. Testern
Car Co., 102 U. S. 1; -Kneelandv. American Loan Co., 136
U. S. 89. None of these were questions which went to the
jurisdiction of the court to entertain thie libels, but were such as
would properly arise, either upon the exception to the libels,
or upon an answer putting the facts in issue.
Had the vessel, at the time the warrant of arrest was served,
been in the actual custody of the receiver, a different question

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

would have been presented; but the facts of this case show
that she had been sold, and had passed into the hands of her
purchaser, and that the receiver had been discharged.
. The case of Ex yarte Gordon, 101 U. S. 515, goes
even
farther than is necessary to support the action of the District
Court in assuming jurisdiction of this case. In that case a
writ of prohibition was sought to restrain the District Court
for the District of Maryland from proceeding against a vessel
to recover damages for loss of life in a collision. It was held
that, as the case was one of a maritime tort, of which the District Court unquestionably had jurisdiction, it was for that
court to decide whether the vessel was liable for pecuniary
damages resulting from the loss of life. "Having jurisdiction," said the Chief Justice, "in respect to the collision, it
would seem necessarily to follow t.hat the court had jurisdiction-to hear and decide what, liability the vessel had incurred
thereby." The question was held not to be jurisdictional, but
one properly arising upon the merits. See also The Charkieh,
8 Q. B. 197; Schune v. Moline &o. Co., 147 U. S. 500; Smith
v. McEKay, 161 U. S.355.
So, too, in iZn re.Fasett,142 U. S. 479, the 6wner of the yacht
Conqueror filed a libel for possession, against her and the collector for the port of New York, claiming delivery of the vessel to him and damages against the collector, who had seized
her as a dutiable import. The collector applied to this court
for a writ of prohibition, alleging that the District Court had
no jurisdiction of the suit. We held that the subject-matter
of the libel was a marine tort; that the question whether the
vessel-was liable to duty was properly justiciable in the District Court, and that that court had jurisdiction. Said Mr.
Justice Blatchford, in delivering the opinion of the court,
p. 484:: "The District Court has jurisdiction to determine the
question, because it has jurisdiction of the vessel by attachment, and of Fassett by monition; and for this court to decide in the first instancejand in this proceeding, the question
whether the yacht is an article imported from a foreign country, and subject to duty under the customs-revenue laws, would
be to decide that question as a matter of original jurisdiction,

THE WILLIAM M. HOAG.
Opinion of the Court.

and not of appellate jurisdiction, while as a question of original jurisdiction, it is duly pending before the District Court
of the United States on pleadings which put that very question in issue." Seb also In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472.
No. 136 is also a libel for wages, and involves precisely the
same questions as are involved in the case of Dowsett, and
will be disposed of in the same way. Claimants have mistaken their remedy in these cases, and should have appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decrees of the District Court, in so far as they assume
jurisdiction of these cases, are therefore
Affirmed.

THE WILLIAM M. HOAG.
THE THREE SISTERS.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRIOT COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 18T, 138. Submitted November 12, 1897.-Decided December 6,189T.

These cases are affirmed as to the jurisdiction of the District Court on the
authority of The Resolute, ante, 437.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

21[r. W
appellants.

=ldicm
2. -Muir and -Mr. John T. Whaley for

.Mr. Z. B. Cox, -Mr. 1. i. Cotton, -Mr. Thomas O'Day
and .r. C. F. Lord for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRoWN delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases differ from those already disposed of ante, 437,
only in the fact that the libels contain claims by the masters of
those vesselswith an averment that during the time they were
employed there was an officer known as the purser; that the
agents of the receiver and the purser collected and ieceived. all

