OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
StAtement of the Case.

While we think the judgment of the Court of Claims was
correct with respect to all the items involved in this case, with
the exception of two, the aggregate amount of which is $97.50,
for its error in respect to those two the judgment will have to
be varied by increasing the same from $678.10 to $775.60 and
subject to such increase it is, in all other respects,
-Affirmed.

UNDERHILL v. HERNANDEZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CICUIT.
No. 88. Argued October 22, 25,1897. -Decided

November 29,189T.

Hernandez was in command of a revolutionary army in Venezuela when an
engagement took place with the government forces which resulted in
the defeat of the latter, and the occupation of Bolivar by the former.
Underhill was living in Bolivar, where he had constructed a waterworks
system for the city under a contract with the government, and carried
on a machinery repair business. He applied for a passport to leave the
city, which was refused by Hernandez with a view to coerce him to
operate his waterworks and his repair works for the benefit of the community and the revolutionary forces.
Subsequently a passport was
given him. The revolutionary government under which Hernandez was
acting was recognized by the United States as the legitimate government
of Venezuela.
Subsequently Underhill sued Hernandez in the Circuit
Court for the Second Circuit to recover damages caused by the refusal
to grant the passport, for alleged confinement of him to his own house,
and for alleged assaults and affronts by Hernandez' soldiers. Judgment
being rendered for defendant the case was taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, where the judgment was affirmed, the court holding 11tha t
the acts of the defendant were the acts of Venezuela, and as such are
not properly the subject of adjudication in the courts of another government." Held that the Circuit Court of Appeals was justified in that conclusion.
Every sovereign State is bound to respect the independence of every other
sovereign State, and the courts of one country will not sit in judgment
on the acts of the government of another, done within its own territory.

IN the early part of 1892 a revolution was initiated in
Venezuela against the administration thereof, which the revo-

UNDERIILL v. HERNANDEZ
Statement of the Case.

lutionists claimed had ceased to be the legitimate government. The principal parties to this conflict were those who
recognized Palacio as their head and those who followed
the leadership of Crespo. General Hernandez belonged to
the anti-administration party, and commanded its forces in the
vicinity of Ciudad Bolivar. On the 8th of August, 1892, an
engagement took place between the armies of the two parties
at Buena Vista, some seven miles from Bolivar, in which the
troops under Hernandez prevailed, and on the 13th of August,
Hernandez entered Bolivar and assumed command of the city.
All of the local officials had in the meantime left, and the
vacant positions were filled by General Hernandez, who from
that date and during the period of the transactions complained
of was the civil and military chief of the city and district. In
October the party in revolt had achieved success generally,
taking possession of the capital of Venezuela, October 6, and
on October 23, 1892, the Crespb government, so called, was
formally recognized as the legitimate government of Venezuela by the United States.
George F. Underhill was a citizen of the United States, who
had constructed a waterworks system for the city of Bolivar
under a contract with the government, and was engaged in
supplying the place with water, and he also carried on a
machinery-repair business. Some time after the entry of
General Hernandez, Underhill applied to him as the officer
in .command for a passport to leave the city. Hernandez
refused this request, and requests made by others in Underhill's behalf, until October 18, when a passport was given and
Underhill left the country.
This action was brought to recover damages for the detention daused by reason of the refusal to. grant the passport; for
the alleged confinement of Underhill to his own house; and
for certain alleged assaults and affronts by the soldiers of
lernandez' army.
The cause was tried in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of New York, and on the conclusion of plaintiff's case, the Circuit Court ruled that upon
the facts plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and directed

OCTOBER TERMt, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

a verdict for defendant on the ground that "because the acts
of defendant were those of a military commander, representing a defacto government in the prosecution of a war, he was
not civilly responsible therefor." Judgment having been rendered for defendant, the case was. taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and by that court affirmed upon the ground "that
the acts of the defendant were the acts of the government of
Venezuela, and as such are not properly the subject of adjudication in the courts of another government." 26 U. S.
App. 573. Thereupon the cause was brought to this court
on certiorari.
.Mr. Walter S. Logan for Underhill.
mond was on his brief.

-Mr. Chares .M. .De-

Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, Jr., for Hernandez.
-Ding was on his brief.
M . CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER,

Mr. Joseph

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the Court.
Every sovereign State is bound to respect the independence
of every other sovereign State, and the courts of one country
will not sit in judgment on the acts of the government of another done within its own territory. Redress of grievances
by reason of such acts must be obtained through the means
open to be availed of by sovereign powers as between themselves.
Nor can the principle be confined to lawful or recognized
governments, or to cases where redress can manifestly be had
through public channels. The immunity of individuals from
suits brought in foreign tribunals for acts done within their
own States, in the exercise of governmental authority, whether
as civil officers or as military commanders, must necessarily
extend to the agents of governments ruling by paramount
force as matter of fact. Where a civil war prevails, that is,
where the people of a country are divided into two hostile
parties, who take up. arms and oppose one another by military

UNDERHILL v. HERINANDEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

force, generally speaking foreign nations do not assume to
judge of the merits of the quarrel. If the party seeking toz.
dislodge the existing government succeeds, and the independence of the government it has set up.is recognized, then the
acts of such government from the commencement of its existence are regarded as those of an independent nation. If the
political -revolt fails of success, still if actual war has been
waged, acts of legitimate warfare cannot be made the basis.
of individual liability. United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246;
Fleming v. Page, 9 Hlow. 603; Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall.
1; Williams v. Brufy, 96 U. S. 176; Ford v. Surget, 97 U. S.
594; -Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 158; and other cases.
Revolutions or insurrections may inconvenience other nations, but by accommodation to the facts the application of
settled rules is readily reached. And where the fact of the
existence of war is in. issue in the instance of complaint of
acts committed within foreign territory, it is not an absolute
prerequisite that that fact should be made out by an acknowledgment of belligerency, as other official recognition of its existence may be sufficient proof thereof. The Three .Fpiends,
166 U. S. 1.
In this case, the archives of the State Department show
that civil war was flagrant in Venezuela from the spring of
1892; that the revolution was successful; and that the revolutionary government was recognized by the United States as
the government of the country, it being, to use the lapguage
of the Secretary of State in a communication to our minister
to Venezuela, "accepted by the people, in the possession of
the power of the nation and fully established."
That these were facts of which the court is bound to take
judicial notice, and for information as to which it may consult
the Department of State, there can be no doubt. Jones v.
United States, 137 U. S. 202; 3Mighell v. Sultan of Jahore,
(1894) 1 Q. B. 149.
It is idle to argue that the proceedings of those who thus
triumphed should be treated as the acts of banditti or mere
mobs.
We entertain no doubt upon the evidence that Hernandez.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

was carrying on military operations in support of the revolutionary party. It may be that adherents of that side of the
controversy in the particular locality where Hernandez was
the leader of the movement entertained a preference for him
as the future executive head of the nation, but that is beside
the question. The acts complained of were the acts of a military commander representing the authority of the revolutionary party as a government, which afterwards succeeded and
was recognized by the United States. We think the Circuit
Court of Appeals was justified in concluding "that the acts
of the defendant were the acts of the government of Venezuela, and as such are not properly the subject of adjudication
in the courts of another government."
The decisions cited on plaintiff's behalf are not in point.
Cases respecting arrests by military authority in the absence
of the prevalence of war; or the validity of contracts between
individuals entered into in aid of insurrection; or the right of
revolutionary bodies to vex the commeice of the world on its
common highway without incurring the penalties denounced
on piracy; and the like, do not involve the questions presented
here.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals, that "the evidence upon the trial indicated that the purpose of the defendant in his treatment of the plaintiff was to coerce the plaintiff
to operate his waterworks and his repair works for the benefit
of the community and the revolutionary forces," and that "it
was not sufficient to have warranted a finding by the jury
that the defendant was actuated by malice or any personal
or private motive;" and we concur in its disposition of the
rulings below. The decree of the Circuit Court is

