O'BRIEN v. MILLER.
Syllabus.

O'BRIEN v. MILLER
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIROUIT.
No. 40. Argued April 2,189t. -Decded

November 29,189t.

The Johnson, an American shlp,'was chartered at Valparaiso to carry a
cargo of nitrate of soda, of 1938 tons, from Caleta to Hamburg consigned
td a London firm. On the way she sprang a leak, and put into Callao.
There 1200 tons of the cargo were transferred to the Leslie, a British
bark, and the Johnson was repaired, the master executing a bottomry
bond to meet the expenses of the repairs. That bond bound the Johnson, cargo and freight, hypothecated the portion of the cargo transhipped to the bark and further provided that "if during the said
voyage an utter loss of the said vessel" [in the singular] "by fire, enemies,
pirates, the perils of the sea or navigation,'or any other casualty shall
unavoidably happen," "then and in either of the said cases this'obligation shall be void." Both vessels sailed for Hamburg. The Johnson
collided at sea with the Thirlmere, a British vessel, and was sunk with a
total loss. The bark reached Hamburg safely. The consignees, in order
to obtain the cargo, agreed to refer to arbitration by German lawyers
the question of its liability for the whole amount of the bond. They
decided that it was so liable, and the consignees paid the amount of the
bond and received the cargo. The owners of the Johnson libelled the
,Thirlmere and its owners. The latter were held not to be personally
liable, and judgment was rendered only for the value of the Thirlmere. The
Insurers of the Johnson also paid to its owners the amount of the policies
of Insurance, and the latter, after receiving the amount of the judgment against the Thirlmere, paid to the insurers their proportionate part
of it. This suit was then instituted by the consignors and the consignees
of the cargo of the bark to recover*from the owners of the Johnson their
share of the sum paid on the bottomry bond. Held,
(1) That the terms of the bottomry bond included not only the Andrew
Johnson and her cargo, but the cargo transhipped on the Leslie;
(2) That the owners of the Johnson, to the extent of the damages paid
on account of the collision, were liable to the libellants, as creditors
of the ship.
In interpreting a contract the whole contract must be brought into view,
and it must be interpreted with reference to the nature of the obligations
between the parties, and the intention which they have manifested in
f6rming them: and this rule is especially applicable to the interpretation
of contracts of bottomry and respondentia.
In an action- to recover on a bottomry bond from the shipowner for ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
vances made for his benefit and charged upon the property of the cargo
owners by the master, if he questions the power of the master to execute
the instrument of hypothecation it ishis duty to plead it in defence.
The action of the district judge .in refusing to permit the respondent to
amen his answer by setting up the plea of laches and res judicatawas
not error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
X.

WilheZmus Afynderse for Miller and others.

Ar. Sydney Chubb for O'Brien.
MR. JusTioE WroTE delivered the opinion of the court.

By a charter party executed at Valparaiso, Chili, on April
5, 1884, Gibbs & Company, -of the place named, chartered the
ship Andrew Johnson to carry a cargo of nitrate of soda from
Iquique and Caleta "to any safe port in the United Kingdom
or on the continent between Havre and Hamburg, both included, as ordered." After loading at the places named, the
Andrew Johnson, pursuant to orders, sailed on July 15, 1884,
for Hamburg, the cargo on board being consigned to the
order of Antony Gibbs & Sons, a firm doing business in
London. On the 4th of August following, the vessel, being
in distress, put into Callao. Certain necessary repairs, which
were advised by a duly appointed board of survey, were made,
and, upon the recommendation of the board, 8449 bags, or
about 1200 tons, of the nitrate of soda were transhipped to
the British bark Mary J. Leslie, to be conveyed, by that
vessel, to Hamburg.
To defray the expenses incurred in the port of refuge, the
master of the Andrew Johnson executed a bottomry and respondentia bond to the firm of Grace Brothers & Company.
This bond not only bound the ship Andrew Johnson and her
cargo and freight, but also, in express terms, hypothecated
the caigo .transhipped to the Mary J. Leslie. Although both
cargoes were thus bound, the bond, in its defeasance clause,
provided that it should be void "if during the said voyage an
utter loss of the said vessel by fire, enemies, pirates, the perils

O'BRIEN v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the sea or navigation, or any other casualty shall unavoidably happen." A copy of the bond is found in the margin.'
The two vessels sailed for Hamburg. The Leslie arrived,
1 Know all men by these presents, that I, James H. Killeran, master
mariner and commander of the ship or vessel, called the Andrew Johnson,
of Thomaston, Maine, of the measurement of nineteen hundred and thirtyeight tons or thereabouts, now lying in the port of Callao, am held and
firmly bound to Messrs. Grace Brothers & Co., carrying on business at Lima
and Callao under the firm of Grace Brothers & Company, in the penal sum
of thirteen thousand two hundred and seventy-three Peruvian silver soles
Y, at forty pence to the sole, equal to two thousand two hundred and
twelve pounds 5s. 9d,, of good and lawful money of Great Britain, to be paid
to the said Grace Brothers & Co., or any of them, or to their or any of
their order, certain attorney, executors, administrators or assigns, or to
such person or persons as they or any of them shall appoint by endorsement
thereon in the name of their firm of Grace Brothers & Co. to receive the
same.
For which payment, to be well and faithfully made, I bind myself, my
heirs, executors or administrators, and also the hull, boats, tackle, apparel
and furniture of said vessel and her cargo of nitrate of soda, including
about twelve hundred tons of nitrate of soda, transhipped on board the
British bark Mary J. Leslie, of Liverpool, N. S., of 815 tons register, and
of which W. S. MacLeod is now master, and the freight to be earned and
become payable in respect thereof, firmly by these presents, sealed with my
seal. Dated this fifteenth day of September, in the year of our-Lord one
thousand eight-hundred and eighty-four.
Whereas, the said vessel lately sailed from Caleta Buena, laden with a
cargo of nitrate of soda, bound therewith to Hamburg in Germany, and
during the prosecution of the said voyage sprang a leak, *hereby she took
In water at sundry times to.such an extent that it was deemed expedient
by the said master, for the safety of the vessel and the benefit of all concerned, to bear up for Callao, which was accordingly done, and on arrival
at Callao aforesaid the vessel was duly surveyed by competent surveyors
and certain repairs were recommended to be done to enable the said vessel to
continue the voyage with safety, and also to tranship to another vessel
about twelve hundred tons of the cargo laden on board the aforesaid Andrew
Johnson in order to enable her to proceed on her voyage with perfect safety.
And whereas all necessary repairs and supplies have been -made to the
said vessel, and the said portion of cargo transhipped to the Mary J. Leslie
to enable her to prosecute her said voyage, and she is now in a seaworthy
condition and ready to proceed to sea, but the said James H. Killeran having unavoidably incurred certain debts for such repairs and other necessary
and lawful matters and things relating to his said vessel which he is totally
unable to defray and make good, save and except upon the security of the
bottom of his said vessel and her cargo and freight, hath been necessitated to
VoL. crxvm-19

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

but the Johnson perished at sea as. the result of a collision
with the British ship Thirlmere. After the arrival of the
Leslie at Hamburg, demand was made upon the representaraise the'sum of thirteen thousand two hundred and seventy-three Peruvian
soles, 1027 silver, or its equivalent in British sterling, for the payment of
the debts incurred as aforesaid, and to enable the said vessel to proceed to
sea on the said intended voyage, and which sum the said master has been
unable to obtain on his own credit or that of the owners of the said vessel,
or in any other way than by bottomry and hypothecation of the said vessel,
her boats, apparel, cargo and freight.
And whereas the said Grace Brothers & Co. have, at the request of the
above-bounden James H. Killeran, agreed to lend and advance to him the
7
sum of thirteen thousand two hundred and seventy-three soles, . J2silver,
or its equivalent, at forty pence as aforesaid, in British iterling, for the
purposes aforesaid, upon his executing this present bond or obligation and
hypothecation of the said vessel, her boats and" apparel and her cargo,
including that portion of the cargo transhipped to the MKary J. Leslie, and
the freight to be earned and become payable in respect of the said voyage,
and the said Grace Brothers & Co. are contented to stand to and bear the
risk, hazard and adventure thereof upon the hull, body or keel of the said
vessel Andrew Johnson, her boats, tackle, hpparel and furniture, together
with the cargo laden on board as aforesaid, and the freight to be earned
and become payable as aforesaid and for securing the repayment of the
said sum of thirteen thousand two hundred and seventy-three Peruvian
soles, 10, silver, or its equivalent in British sterling as aforesaid, the loan
whereof is hereby acknowledged, he,.the said James H. Killeran, doth by
these presents mortgage, hypothecate and charge the said vessel, her boats,
tackle, apparel and furniture and her cargo, including that portion of the
cargo transhipped to the Mary J. Leslie, and the freight to be earned and
become payable in respect of the said voyage, unto the said Grace Brothers
& Co., their executors, administrators and assigns.
Now,the condition of this obligation is such, that if the said vessel shall
forthwith set sail from Callao aforesaid, and without unnecessary delay or
deviation proceed on her intended voyage to Hamburg, and if the abovebounden James H. Killeran shall and do within the space of five days next
after the arrival of the vessel at her final port of destination, and before
commencing to discharge the cargo free of any average whatever at the
then current rate of exchange on London, well and truly pay or cause to be
paid unto the said Grace Brothers*& Co., or any of them, their or any of
their order, attorneys or attorney, executors, admiriistrators or assigns, or
unto such person or persons as they or any of them shall appoint by endorsement under their or his'hand or hands in the name of their or his firm of
Grace Brothers & Co., or otherwise, upon this present obligation the sum
of two thousand two hundred and twelve pounds 5s. 9a. British sterling
money, being the principal money of this obligation, and the further sum

O'BRIEN v.

ILLER.

Opinion of the Court.

tives of Antony Gibbs & Sons, the consignees of the nitrate
of soda, which had been shipped on the Leslie, for paymbnt
in full of the amount of the bond, and, in order to obtain
possession of the eargo, the consignees entered into an
agreement by which the question of the liability of the
nitrate of soda on the Leslie for the entire amount of the bond
was to be determined by arbitration, the arbitrators to be
selected by and their decision to be binding upon the respective parties. It is to be inferred that the only question controverted before the arbitrafors was whether the use of the
words "said vessel" in the defeasance clause of the bond
operated to avoid the bond in c6nsequence of the wreck of
the Andrew Johnson and the loss of her cargo. The German lawyers who were selected as arbitrators found that the
nitrate of soda on board the Leslie was bound for the whole
amount of the bond, and that, therefore, the consignees were
not entitled to the cargo unless they paid the bond. Their
award was as follows:
"We formulate the question which you, in the names of
Messrs. Antony Gibbs & Sons and Messrs. Baring Brothers &
Co., have submitted to our judgment as follows:
"Whether the. portion of the cargo of nitrate of soda of the
of three hundred and eighty-seven pounds three shillings of like money for
the maritime interest or bottomry premium thereon, at the rate of seventeen pounds 10 per centum, making together the sum of two thousand five
hundred and ninety-nine pounds 8s. 9d. British sterling, and also do and
shall on demand well and truly pay or cause to be paid unto the said Grace
Brothers & Co., or any of them, or to their or any of their order, attorneys,
endorsers, executors, administrators or assigns, all such costs, charges and
expenses as they or any of them shall or may have incurredi sustained or
be put to in or about the recovery of the aforesaid principal money and
premium, or any part thereof, or otherwise howsoever in the premises.
Or if during the said voyage an utter loss of the said vessel by fire,
enemies, pirates, the perils of the sea or navigation, or any other casualty,
shall unavoidably happen to be sufficiently proved by the said James H.
Killeran, then and in either of the said cases this obligation shall be void,
or otherwise to be and remain in full force and virtue.
In testimony whereof, the said James H. Killeran hath, to these presents,
and to a duplicate and triplicate thereof, set his hand and seal after careful reading, in the presence of the undersigned witnesses, the day and year
first before written.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Andrew Johnson, brought home per Mary J. Leslie, is liable
for the whole amount of the bottomry bond, which was
signed in Callao, and whether, consequently, the receiver of
this portion of the cargo ha' to pay the whole of the bottomry
bond, provided the value of this portion of the cargo is not
less than the amount of the bottomry debt 2
"This question we must answer in the affirmative, because,
according to the law here, ship, freight and 'cargo of the
Andrew Johnson, as well as the portion of the cargo which
was transhipped into the Mary J. Leslie, are jointly liable for
the whole amount raised on bottomry at Callao, and, therefore, the Andrew Johnson and her cargo having become a
total loss, the holder of the bottomry bond can come upon
that portion of the cargo which was shipped by the Mary J.
Leslie for the whole amount of his claim.
"Some doubt might be raised as to whether, according to
the wording of the bottomry bond, the money was not lent or
appear to be lent contingent upon the safety of the Andrew
.Johnson, and becoming due only after her arrivail at her port
of destination, but becoming null and void in the event of her
non-arrival. We are of opinion, however, that this interpretation is not consistent with the real intention of the contracting parties, and that the wording referred to has originated
in the not sufficiently careful use and employment of a form
of bond which happened to be at hand. This seems the less
doubtful to us for this reason, that if the bottomry bond were
interpreted in this manner, the cargo of the Mary J. Leslie
would be entirely liberated, after the loss of the Andrew
Johnson occurred, and would not even bear a portion of the
bottomry debt, which nevertheless has arisen out of a case of
general average. Manifestly this cannot have been the intention of the parties interested."
Antony Gibbs & Sons paid the amount of the bond for
account of Gibbs & Company, the consignors. Subsequently,
the owners of the Andrew Johnson commenced legal proceedings against the Thirlmere to hold that vessel responsible for
the collision by which the Johnson and her cargo were lost.
The Thirlmere availed herself of the statute: of Great Britain

O'BRIEN v. IMILER.
Opinion of the Court.

limiting the liability of shipowners, and the result was an
award finding the Thirlmere to be wholly at fault, and condemning her to pay the loss caused by the sinking 'of the
Johnson. As their proportion of the ascertained value of the
Thirimere, the owners of the Johnsoll for ship and freight
were allowed the sum of £6557 9s. 6d., bdit from this amount
there was deducted about £1500 for certain expenses. In the
proceedings in question, the owners of the nitrate of soda
which was on the Johnson also recovered their proportion of
the value of the Thirlmere. On account of the loss of the
Andrew Johnson, the Boston Marine Insurance Company paid
to her owner the sum of $30,006 less $2825.49, the amount
of a premium note with interest, and out of the, sum received
by the owner of the Andrew Johnson for the ship and freight
froth the value of the Thirlmere, the owner of the Andrew
Johnson, in April, 1896, remitted to the insurance company
as its share thereof the sum of $11,456.05, and to correct some
mistake in calculation the sum of $35.60 was also subsequently
paid by the shipowner to the insurance company.
The present suit was commehced on July 20, 1887, by a
libel in personam against the owner of the Andrew Johnson
to recover the due proportion of the sum paid on the bond.
Those joined as libellants were eleven in number; that is, all
the members composing the firm of Gibbs & Company, the
consignors of the nitrate, of soda, and the members of the firm
of Antony Gibbs & Soiis, the consignees. The original libel
is not in the record. Exceptions to it were filed on the ground
that it did not state the nature of the action and that it did
not state a cause of action. On June 6, 1888, the district
judge overruled the exception to the want of clearness in the
averments of the libel, but maintained the exception of no
cause of action. Although the learned judge found that the
bottomry bond had not ,been avoided by the loss of the
Andrew Johnson and her cargo, and therefore that the payment made at Hamburg was necessary, he yet concluded that
as the Andrew Johnson and her cargo had proven a total loss,
nothing having been alleged in the libel as-to a recovery
by reason of such loss, the libellants were precluded from.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

enforcing their claims i nersonanA against the owner of the
Johnson in consequence of the provision of the acts of Congress
limitifig a shipowner's liability for the acts and contracts of
the master to the value of the ship and freight. 35 Fed. Rep.
779. As a result, on the 27th of June, 1888, an order was
entered, sustaining the exception of no cause of action, and
directing that, unless the libel were amended, it be dismissed
with costs. An amended libel was filed in July, 1888, to
which an exception of no cause of action was again sustained,
with leave further to. amend. On January 4, 1889, the libel
was for the second time amended, and this was also excepted
to, on the ground of ambiguity, and that it did not state a
cause of action. On the 24th of October, 1890, the libel was
again amended by averring the loss of the Johnsbn, the fact
that it had occurred by collision with the Thirlmere, the institution of proceedings against the Thirlmere by the owner of the
Johnson, and the recovery in those proceedings-on the ground
that the collision had been caused ,solely by the fault of the
former vessel. In June, 1891, respondent filed exceptions and
an answer to this amended libel. The answer, among other
things, averred as follows:
"This respondent admits that the owners of the ship
Thirlmere, having taken appropriate proceedings under the
statutes of the United Kingdom of Great Britain -and Ireland, obtained a decree limiting their liability for said collision to a certain-sum, which they thereupon paid into the
court, and which said sum was distributed between the libellants and the respondent herein, and other parties and their
attorneys, in part satisfaction of the damages by each of them
sustained by reason of said collision, but this respondent
denies that he received.the said sum of £6557 9s. 6d., and
avers that the amount" received by him was much less than
said sum."
No allusion was made in the pleadings of the respective
parties to the fact that the owner of the Andrew Johnson
had received the benefit of any insurance upon the vessel.
After thie taking of proof the' "cause was heard on the
exceptions and merits on November 23, 1893. At the outset

O'BRIEN v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the hearing the trial court overruled all the exceptiops to
the third amended libel but that of no cause of action, and
referred this latter exception to the merits. Before the case
was finally submitted the respondent moved the court to be
allowed to amend his answer so as to plead two additional
and distinct defences:
"First, to as much of the libellant's claim as arises out of
the limited liability'proceedings in the English court as to the
Thirlmere, the defence of laches- on the part of the libellant in
not sooner bringing that matter before the court.
"Also as to the same portion of his claim, the defence e8
.judicata, because passed on by the English court."
This request was refused and exceptions to the refusal were
noted. The court, on the merits, held that the bottomry bond,
at the time of its payment, was a valid obligation; that in
view of the fact that the bond embraced not only the cargo
on the Johnson; but also the cargo on the Mary J. Leslie, that
the words "said vessel" in: the defeasance clause must be considered as referring to the cargo on both vessels, and, therefore, the obligations of the bond were not avoided by the loss
of the Johnson and her cargo; that the owners of the Johnson having.recvered from the Thirlmere, up to the value of
the latter vessel, damages for the collision, were not discharged
from personal liability under the acts of Congress, inasmuch
as the sum recovered from the Thirlmere was greater than the
amount sought to be enforced inersonam against' the owner.
59 Fed. Rep. 621. In conformity to the opinion ot the court,
an interlocutory decree was entered on April 3, 1894, referring
the matter to a special' commissioner to ascertain and report
the amount the libellants were entitled to recover. On April'
10, 1894, the respondent again applied to the court for leave
to amend his answer by setting up the two additional defences
of laches and es.judicata,and the request was again denied.
On June 5, 1894, the report of the commissioner was filed,
finding the libellants entitled to the principal sum of $6091.73,
and on July 16, 1894, a final decree for that sum with interest
and costs was duly entered.
By the final decree seven of
the libellants, that is to say., those who composed the firm of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Antony Gibbs & Sons, were dismissed on the ground of a
want of interest, the court having found that the bond was
paid by the consignees for account of the consignors, and they,
therefore, were alone interested in the suit. On appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment of the trial court was
reversed. The appellate court concluded that the words "said
vessel" in the defeasancb clause of the bond were free from
ambiguity, and left no room for construction, and, therefore,
that the loss of the Andrew Johnson with her cargo had
operated to avoid the bond according to its tenor, and that,
the payment' made of the -amount by the consignees was
hence unnecessary, and gave rise to no legal claim against the
master or owner of the Johnson. 35 U. S. App. 138. In
consequence' of the allowance of a writ of certiorari, the cause'
is here for review.
In the discussion at bar many minor questions have been
pressed upon our attention, but the pivotal controversy rests
upon the ascertainment of the true meaning of the bottomry
.bond, and the obligations, if any, which arose from its payment. We forego the present consideiation of the more
unimportant questions in order to at once approach the fundamental issues ihthe cause. The libellants assert that from
the terms of the bond as a whole, it manifestly results that
the cargo of the Leslie was liable despite the loss of the Johnson and her cargo; that hence the' consignees of the cargo,
on the Leslie, were obligated to pay the bond, and that on
their doing so there arose a legal duty on the owner of the
Johnson to pay-the proper proportion thereof, which obligation, it is claimed, can be enforced despite the loss of the
ship, since the owner had recovered and retained the amount
awarded against the Thirlmere.- Oil the other hand, the respondent asserts .that the words of the bond providing for its
avoidance in case of the loss of "said vessel '" are free from
ambiguity and give no room for construction, and that even
if this be not the case in consequence of the loss of the Johnson, the consignors who paid the bond are not entitled, under
the limited liability acts, to recover any proportion thereof.
There can be no doubt that considered in themselves and

O'BRIEN v. M-1ILLER.
Obinion of the Court.

alone, there is no ambiguity in the words found in the clause
of the contract providing that "if during said voyage an utter
loss of the said vessel by fire, enemies, pirates, the perils of
the sea or navigation, or any other casualty, shall inevitably
bAppen, . . . this obligation shall be void." But the
question presented involves not the interpretation of this
langlage apart from the whole agreement, but is, on. the
contrary, the ascertainment of the meaning of the entire
contract. The fallacy which underlies the assertion as to
want of all ambiguity in the bond arises, therefore, from
presupposing that in order to establish want of ambiguity
in a contract a few vords can be segregated from the entire context, and that because the words thus set apart are
not intrinsically ambiguous, there is no room for construing
the contract itself. In other words, the confusion of thought
consists in failing to distinguish between the contract as a
whole and some of. the words found therein. If the erroneous theory were the rule, then, in every case, it would be impossible to arrive at the meaning of a contract, in the event of
difference between the contracting parties, since each would
select particular words upon which they relied, and thus frustrate a consideration of the whole agreement. The elementary canon of interpretation is, not that particular words may
be isolatedly considered, but that the whole contract must be
brought into view and interpreted with reference to the nature
of the obligations between the parties, and the inteftion whi*ch
they have manifested in forming them. Boa'dman v. Reed,
6 Pet. 328; Canal Co. v. Hill, 15 Wall. 91.
This general rule of construction should especially guide a
court of admiralty in interpreting a contract of bottomry and
respondentia.
In the exercise of their jurisdiction with respect to such
bonds, courts of. admiralty are not governed by the strict
rules of the common law, but act upon enlarged principles
of equity, per Story, J., in The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538, 550; and
the same learned justice, in the case of Pope v. Nickerso&,
3 Story, 486, said: "A court- of admiralty in cases within its
civil jurisdiction acts as a court of equity, and construes in-

•298

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

struments, as a court of equity does, with a large and liberal
indulgence."
To quote the language of the judicial committee of the
Privy Council in The Prince George, 4 Moore P. 0. 28:
"Bottomry bonds for the benefit of the shipowners and the
general. advantage of commerce are greatly favored in courts
of admiralty, and where there is no suspicion of fraui every
fair presumption is to be made to support them."
We reach, theh, under the light of these principles, the consideration of the contract, for the purpose of ascertaining its
meaning and enforcing the intention of the parties to be
derived from all the stipulations therein found. There can be
no doubt that the terms of the bond included not only the
Andrew Johnson and her cargo, but the cargo transhipped
on the Leslie, for the bond says: "For which payment, to be
well and faithfully made, I bind myself, my heirs, executors
or administrators, and also the hull, boats, tackle, apparel and
furniture of the said vessel and her cargo of nitrate of soda,
including about 1200 tons of nitrate of soda, transhipped on
board the British bark Mary J. Leslie, of Liverpool, N. S., of
815 tons register, and of which W. S. iMacLeod is now master,
and the freight to be earned and become payable in respect
thereof."
In the recitals of the bond, where a statement,is made of
the fa'cts creating the necessity for the loan, the intention of
the master to include the cargo transhipped on the Leslie is
also unequivocally expressed., Likewise in the recitals which
relate to the conditions upon which the lenders have agreed
to advance the money required, it.is again stated that they
have consented so to do upon the master's executing "this
present bond or obligation and hypothecation of the said
vessel, her boats and apparel, and her cargo, including that
portion of the cargo transhipped to the Mary J. Leslie, and
the freight to be-earned and become payable in respect to the
said cargo, and the said Grace Brothers are contented to stand
to and bear the risk,-hazard and adventure thereof upon the
hull, body or keel of the said vessel Andrew Johnson, her
boat, tackle, apparel and furniture, together with the cargo

O'BRIEN v. 11ILLER.
Opinion of the Court

laden on board as aforesaid, and the freight to be earned and
become payable as aforesaid, and for securing the repayment
of the said sum

.

.

.

hehe said James H. Killeran, doth

by these presents mortgage, hypothecate and charge the said
vessel, her boats, tackle, apparel and furniture, and her cargo,
including that portion of the cargo transhipped to the Mary
J. Leslie and the freight to be earned and become payable in
respect to the said voyage, unto the said Grace Brothers, their
executors, administrators and assigns."
The cargo on the L'eslie having been hypothecated along
with that on the Johnson, and the bond declaring that it was
upon the faith of such hypothecation that the money.was
advanced, the claim that because of the use of the word "vessel"
in the singular, the bond was to be avoided by the loss of the
Johnson, despite the arrival of the Leslie, amounts to contending that although both parties declared that the money was
lent on the faith of. both cargoes, and that without the pledge
of both it would not have been advanced, yet that theyimmediately stipulated that it should be secured upon only one of
the objects hypothecated.
Deriving the meaning of the parties from their situation
and their intentions as declared in the contract, it becomes
impossible in reason to .construe the word "vessel" in the defeasance clause as not applying to both the Johnson and the Leslie.
It is conceded that the value of the Johnson and her cargo
was enormously in excess of the sum of the bond; *thishaving
been the case, to hold that the hypothecation of the cargo on
the Leslie was only to be availea of in case of the arrival of
the Johnson .and her cargo, wQuld be to determine that the
cargo on board the Leslie was only to be resorted to by the
bondholder, in the event recourse against that cargo should
be superfluous. We cannot construe a contract for security
so as to Tender the security available only in case resort to it
should become unnecessary. True, it is sought to escape the
dilemma resulting from this reasoning by saying that the object which the parties had in vie* was a resort to the cargo
of the Leslie in case the Johnson and her cargo arrived in such
a damaged condition as to render it necessary that the cargo

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Leslie should be called upon for an average contribution.
But this explanation only accentuates the dilemma, since it
contends that the lenders were to have recourse to the cargo
of the Leslie ih case the security resulting from the Johnson
and her cargo was partially impaired, and not in the event
that it was wholly so. But, obviously, if the security of the
-cargo of the Leslie was contemplated and provided for by the
parties, as it manifestly was, the contract should not be held
as meaning that the security was to be availed of only in the
event that the value thereof was required to pay a part of the
debt, and it was not to be resorted to when a greater reason for
so doing existed. There are many other conditions of the bond
which with equal force refute the attempt to limit the word
"vessel," in the defeasance clause, to the Johnson, and which
irresistibly make the language of the defeasance clause barmonize with the nature and extent of the security afforded by
the bond. Thus, the clause as to the arrival of the vessels
made no distinction between the Johnson and the Leslie. It
cannot be contended that, if the Leslie had arrived at the
port of destination before the Johnson, her cargo could havebeen discharged without payment of the bond.
The contemporaneous constrdction of the contract given by
the masters of the Johnson and Leslie is shown by the bill of
lading which was given by the one and taken by%the other
for the nitrate of soda which was tianshipped on the Leslie.
On this bill of lading ihe following endorsement was placed:
"The 8449 bags of nitrate of soda, as per this bill of lading,
are included in and jointly responsible with the nitrate of
soda specified in the bottomrny and respondentia bond given to
Messrs. Grace Brothers & Company as security for the payment
-of the Arier. ship Andrew Johnson's disbursements in Callao."
We conclude that to give the construction to the bond
claimed by the shipowner would not only do violence to the
expressed intentions of the parties and their contemporaneous
interpretations of its meaning, but would also be adopting, to
quote the language of Sir James Colville in The Great Pacifc,
L. R. 2 P. C. 254, "so improbable an hypothesis that the construction is only to be admitted-if there is no escape from it."

"O'BRIEN v. MhILLER.
Opinion of the Court,

We may properly say of the bond under consideration what
was said by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Insurance
ompany v. .Duval,8 S. & R. 147, in speaking of a form of
respondentia bond in use in Philadelphia, which partook of
the character of a loan coupled with a contract of insiurance:
"Contracts of this kind are so different in different countries,
(although they resemble each other in some prominent features,) that when disputes arise they, are to be decided by the
words of the particular contract in question rather than by
any principles of general commercial law. In the present
instance, therefore, we must endeavor to ascertain the meaning of the bond, and be governed by it."
In the case just referred to, the loan was upon goods ladened
.upon a vess ], and it was a condition of the contract that the
loan was to be paid within a certain period after the return of
the ve88el to Philadelphia, her home port, or in the event of an
utter loss by certain enumerated sea risks, the bond was to be
void. On the return voyage, the vessel was condemned and
sold at an intermediate port, and the goods on board were
sent to Philadelphia in other vessels and delivered to the
defendants, and- according .to an agreenent annexed to the
respondentia bond were sold by them. In an action brought
to recover the difference between the price realized from the
sale and the: amount of the loan, the defendants 'contended,
among other defences, that the terms of the bond did not make
the repayment of the loan dependent upon the return of the
goods, but upon the return of the vessel, and that as the vessel
did not return, the day of payment bad not arrived. The
court pointed out the extraordinary consequences which would
follow the construction contended for, and held that, even if
under a literal interpretation the right to recover did not exist,
a resort to the spirit of the contract and the intention, of the
parties would entitle the lender to judgment, aS the goods and
not the vessel were the sources from which the defendants
expected to derive the means of payment.
Our conclusion being that the bond was not-avoided by the
loss of the Johnson, and was a valid and subsisting obligation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time of its payment, by the owners of the cargo, on the
Leslie, the question which arises is,- can the cargo owners
recover by an action in personarm against the shipowner the
due average proportion of the expenses at the port of refuge,
incurred for the benefit of the ship and freight? The manifest result of the obligation of the cargo owners to pay the
bond before they could obtain delivery of the goods was that
they were obliged to discharge the part of the debt which was
due by the ship Johnson. This, in effect, gave rise in their behalf to a claim against the ship for a breach of the contract of
affreightmnent or charter party, by viftue of which the property of the owners was received on the Andrew Johnson to be
transported to Hamburg, and there delivered to the order of
the consignees named in the charter party on payment of the
freight therein specified. Had a portion of the cargo not
been delivered, or been delivered in a damaged condition
by the fault of the master, the right to proceed in admiralty
to recover the damage sustained would have been clear.
.The Schooner Freeman, 18 How. 182*; Jiverpool Stean Co. v.
Phoenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 462. Delivering the cargo
charged with-a lien for an indebtedness of the shipowner.
is no different in principle or effect from the non-delivery
of a portion or the whole in a damaged condition. It is
also analogous in principle to a jettison of a portion of the
cargo for the benefit of the ship and the remainder of the
cargo, when a clear right to contribution would exist, enforceable in admiralty. Duyibnt v. Tance, 19 How. 162, 168. As
said in the latter case by Mr. Justice Curtis, delivering the
opinion of the court: "The right of the shipper to resort to
the vessel for claims growing directly out of his contract of
affreightment has very l6ng existed -in the' general maritime
law." And, whilst in the same case, (page 169,) the power
of the master to hypothecate or sell a part of the cargo to enable him to prosecute the voyage was declared to exist, the
obligation of the shipowner, under the law of the sea, to reimburse the cargo owner for the due proportion of the, loss was
clearly stated.
The shipowner being liable for his average portion of the

O'BRIEN v.

MILLER.

Opinion of the Court.

loss, the question is, Was he discharged therefrom by the loss
of the Johnson and her cArgo, although the" owner has recovered and retains the sum awarded as damages against
another ship for having brought about the loss ? The answer
to this question involves a consideration of the proper construction to be given to the act limiting the liability of shipowners.
The original act, approved March 3, 1851, c. 43, 9 Stat. 635,
was carried forward into the Revised Statutes as sections 4282
et seq.
Section 4283 declares that the liability of the owner of any
vessel for various acts and things mentioned "shall in no case
exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owner in
such vessel and. her freight then pbnding."
Section 4284 describes the liability as "the whole value of
the vessel, and her freight for the voyage" ; and section 4285
declares that it shall be a sufficient compliance with the law
if the owner transfer his interest in sucA vessel andfreight,for
the benefit of the claimants, to a trustee.
Section 4283 was amended 'bythe act approved June 26,
1884, c. 121, 23 Stat. 53, 57, so as to do away with the restrictions upon the character of debts and liabilities against which
the limitation might be asserted. This amendment, however,
is not material to the question now coosidered.
The clear purpose of Congress was'to require the shipowner,
in order to be able to claim the benefit of the limited liability
act, to surrender to the creditors of the ship all rights of
action which were directly representative of the ship and
freight. Where a vessel has been wrongfully taken from the
custody of her owners or destroyed through the fault of
another, there exists in the owner a right to require the
restoration of his property, either in specie or by a money
payment as compensation for a failure to restore the property.
Manifestly, if the option was afforded the owner of the ship
to receive back his property or its value, he could not, by
electing to take its value, refuse to surrender the amount as a
condition to obtaining the benefit of the act.
In The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, where the obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of te

Court.

tion of a shipowner to account for the sum of insurance recovered on the loss of his ship, was fully considered, the fact
was declared to be that the provisions of the act of Congress,
just referred to, were in conformity with the general maritime
law of Europe (502). The text of the Ordonnance de la
Marine of 1681, and the opinions of Pardessus and other continental jurisconsuls, were referred to as the sources from
which the principles embodied in the act of Congress were
derived. The language of Pardessus clearly shows that, hnder
the general maritime law, the obligation of the owner was to
surrender a sum awarded as damages for the loss of his ship,
and, if he did not, he could not avail himself of the limitation
.of liability. He says (Droit Commercial, part 3, title 2, ch. 3,
sec. 2):
"The owner is bound civilly for al] delinquencies committed
by the captain within the scope of his authority, but he may
discharge himself therefrom by abandoning the ship and
freight; -and, if they are lost, it suffices for his discharge to
surrender all claims in resve6t of the ship and itsfreight."
So, also, Kaltenborn, in a treatise, published at Berlin in
1851, as translated and quoted in the dissenting opinion in The
City of Norwich, supra, says:.
"The :Roman law, which held the owner absolutely liable
with all his property, is nowhere put in practice, and was not
current as early as the Middle Ages. Indeed, the Consulate.
of the Sea, oh. 183, 224, -236, the law of Wisby, reasoning
from Arts. 13 and 68, that of the Hanse Towns, reasoning
from Art. 2, title X, render the owners, as a rule, answerable
only to the extent of the ship's value; and the modern maritime laws free the owners, by the abandon of the ship and
their several shares in the vessel, from all further liability for
the ship enterprise, particularly for the acts and contracts of
the captain. In the ship are includedall gains arisingduring
the voyage, as well as the insurance. Should the ship and the
freight have perished, it is sufficient for exoneration of thd
owners if all claims and causes of action having reference to
the vessel andfreight are abandoned by them."
The same doctrine is clearly recognized in the -provisions of

0'BRIEN v. M=ILER.

305

Opinion of the Court.

the Genieral German Commercial Code, where, in Art. 778, it
is provided as follows:
"Art. 778. In cases of general average, the compensation
for sacrifice or damage takes, as against the ship's creditor,
the place of that which the compensation is to make good.
"The same rule applies to the indemnity, which in case of
loss or damage to the vessel or of nonpayment of freight
when goods have been lost or damaged, is due to the shipowner by the party who has caused the damage by his illegal
conduct.
"When the compensation or indemnity has been received
by the ship6wner, he is personally responsible to the ship's
creditors to the extent of the amount received in the same
manner as to the creditors of a voyage in case of encashment
of the freight."
Indeed, that a right of action for the value of the owner's
interest in a ship and freight is to be considered as a substitute for the ship itself, was decided in this court in the case of
SheTpard v. Taylor, 5 Pet. 675. That was a case where a
vessel had been seized, condemned and sold by the Spanish
authorities because of a violation of the trade regulations
of the kingdom of Spain. The King of Spain subsequently
ordered the proceeds of the vessel and cargo to be repaid to
the owners, but this was not done; afterwards the owners,
having become insolvent, assigned their claims for the restoration of the proceeds and for indemnity from Spain to their
separate creditors, and the commissioners under the Florida
treaty awarded to be paid to the assignees a sum of money,
part for the cargo, part for the freight, and part for the ship.
The officers and seamen having proceeded against the owners
of the ship by a libel in personam for their wages, and having
afterwards, by an amended libel in personam, claimed payment out of the money paid to the assignees of the owners
under the treaty, it was held that they were entitled, to*wards
the satisfaction of the same, to the sum awarded by the conmissioners for the loss of the ship and her freight, with certain
deductions for the expenses of prosecuting the claim before
the commissioners.
VOL. CLxvI-20

'306

OCTOBER: TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of the court, said
(p. 710):
"If the ship had been specifically restored, there is no doubt
that the seamen might have proceeded against it in the admiralty in' a suit in 'em for the whole compensation due to them.
They have by the maritime law an indisputable lien to this
extent. This lien is so sacred'and indelible that it has, on
more than one occasion, been expressively said that.it adheres
to the last plank -of the ship. 1 Peter's Adm. note 186, i95;
2 Dodson's, 13; The NYeptune, 1 Hagg. Adm. 227, 239.
'And, in our opinion,. there is no difference between the
case of a restitution in specie of the ship:itself and a restitution
in value. The lien reattaches to the thing and to whatever is
substituted-for it. This is no peculiar prificiple of the admiralty. It is found incorporaled into the doctrines of courts
of common law and equity. The owner and the lienholder,
whose claims have been wrongfully displaced, may follow the
proceeds wherever they can distinctly trace them. In respect,
therefore, to the proceeds of the ship, we have no difficulty in
affirming that the lien.in this case attaches to them."
Nor does the 'ruling in The City qf Norwich, 8upra, that
the proceeds of an insurance policy need not be surrendered,
by the shipowner, conflict with the decision in Sheppard v.
Taylor. The decision as -to insurance was placed on the
ground that the insurance was a distinct and collateral contract which the shipowner was at liberty to make or not. On
such question there was division of opinion among the writers
on maritime law and in the various maritime codes. But as
shown by the full review of the authorities, found in the opinion of the court, and in the dissent in The City .of Norwich,
all the maritime writers and codes accord in the conclusion
that a surrender, under the right to limit liability, must be
made of a sum received by the owner, as the direct result of
the loss of the ship, and which is the legal equivalent and substitute for the ship.
We conclude that the owner who retains the sum of the

damages Which have been awarded him. for the loss of his ship
and freight has not surrendered "the amount or value" (see.

O'BRIEN v. NEILLER.
Opini6n of the Court.

4283) of his interest in the ship; that he has not given up the
" whole value of the vessel" (see. 4284); that he has not transferred "his interest in such vessel and freight" (sec. 4285).
It follows that the shipoNVner, therefore, in the case before us,
to the extent of the damages paid on account of the collision,
was liable to the creditors of the ship, and the libellants, as
such creditors, were entitled to collect their claim, it being
less in amount than the sum of such proceeds.
The remaining questions are free from difficulty. It was
urged below and is pressed at bar that the amended libels
disclosed no cause of action, because it was not specifically
alleged that the master of the Johnson communicated with
the cargo owners before consenting to the bond.
It was said in T/e Julia Blake, 107 U. S. 418, 425, "it is
now the settled law of the English courts that a master cannot
bottomry a ship without communication with owner, if communication be practicable, and, afortiori,cannot hypothecate
the cargo without -communicating with the owner of it, if
communication with such owner be practicable." A particular review of the doctrine laid down by the English courts was
however rendered unnecessary in the case of the Julia Blake,
as the circumstances in that case clearly established that the
hypothecation of the cargo was unwarranted, irrespective of
the failure to communicate with the owner of the cargo: In
the case of Glascott v. Lang, 2 Phillips' Oh. 310, decided in
1847, Lord Chancellor Cottenham declared that no authority
existed to support the claim that a bottomry.bond executed
upon a vessel might be avoided because the captain, though
having opportunity to do so, failed to communicate with the
owners before giving the bond. In The _Karnak, L. R. 2
Ad. & Ec. 289, Sir Robert Phillimore thus referred to the
subject :
"I think it will be found upon examination of the foreign
maritime law that the bottomry bond, under the various titles
of contrat ' la grosse aventure, kypotheca, bodmer, or cambio
maritimo, was always considered as binding the cargo, and
that the necessity of a special communication, if possible, of
the master with the owner 6f the cargo, according to the dc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

trine of recent cases, however just in principle, is peculiar to
the English law."
The rule declared to be settled in Great Britain by the cases
of The-Bonaparte, 8 Moore P. 0. 459; The Hamburg, B. &
Lush. 253, 273; S. . 2 Moore P. C. (N. S.) 289, 320; AustralasianSteam Nfavigation Comany v. 3lorse,.L. R. 4 P. 0.
222, was, in 1877, thus stated by the Privy Council in Eleinwort v. Cassa Marittima,2 App. Cas. 157:
"That it is an universal rule that the master, if in a state of
distress or pressure, before hypothecating the cargo, must communicate or even endeavor to communicate with the owner of
the cargo, has not been alleged, and is a position that could
not be maintained; but it may safely, both on authority and
on principle, be said, that in general it is his duty to do so, or
it is his duty in general to attempt to do so.

.

.

If ac-

cording to the circumstances in Which he is placed it be
reasonable that he should -if it be rational to expect that he
may -obtain an answer within a time not inconvenient with
reference to the circumstances of the case, then it must be taken
upon authoity and principle that it is the duty of the master
to do so, or at least to make the attempt."
As in the case of the Julia Blake, however, we find it unnecessary to determine in the case now before us whether the
rule laid down by the courts of Great Britain is the doctrine
of this court. Under that rule, it is only where, under all the.
c' rcumstances of the case, communication with the owners of
the cargo was feasible, that a'failure to attempt to communicate will avoid the bond. Now, in the case at bar, the pleadings do not aver nor does the evidence establish whether
communication was had by the master with .tleowners of the
cargo before the execution of the bond, nor that such communication was feasible or might reasonably have been had.
While it may be inferred from the averment in the libel that
the libellants assented to the bond, "believing that the said
bond was properly and' necessarily issued," that such assent was
given subsequent to the execution of the bond, the language
used does not imply that the master had not communicated
with the cargo owners before making the hypothecation. As

O'BRIEN v. MILLEIR.
Opinion of the Court.

the bond does not import to the contrary, the master must be
presumed to have lawfully executed it. The necessity for the
hypothecation and that the course pursued was for the best
interests of the cargo owners is established by the evidence.
Under such circumstances, we think the duty was upon the
party who questioned the power of the master to have executed the instrument of hypothecation to plead it as a matter
of defence. The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538, 550. Partiularly is this
the case when, as here, the recovery sought from the shipowner is for advances made for his benefit, which were charged
upon the property of the cargo owners by the representative
as well of the shipowner as the owners of the cargo. Whether,
under the circumstances, an estoppel might not arise, need not
be determined.
But one matter remains to be considered, and that is as to
the action of the District Judge in refusing, on the hearing and
subsequently, to permit the respondent to amend his answer by
setting up the plea of laches and of resjudicata as respects the
allegation for the first time made in the third amended libel
of the receipt by the owner of the Andrew Johnson of partial compensation from the owners of the ship Thirlmere for
the loss of the Andrew Johnson and her freight. The third
amended libel was filed October 28, 1890, and the exceptions
and answer thereto were filed Tune 22, 1891. The trial took
place on November 22, 1893. It appears from the papers used
in support of the motion filed after the trial of the case that
the claim made in the admiralty proceedings in England,
that the cargo owners should be credited from the ship's share
of the moneys paid into court by the owners of the Thirlmere
with the ship's proportion of the'bottomry bond, was rejected,
because of a supposed want of jurisdiction. Indeed, the proctor for the respondent, in an affidavit filed in support of the
renewed application .for leave to amend the answer, stated as
a reason for not setting forth the defences in question in the
answer to the amended libel that be "was then of the opinion
that his client was entitled to judgment on the defences then
set up" and that he "was then advised that the presentation
and rejection by the English admiralty court of the libellants'

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

claim, founded on their payment of the bottomry bond, did
not, according to the law of England, amount to an adjudication thereon, for the reason that the said English court of

admiralty was without jurisdiction thereof."
It is also clearly inferable from the statements in the affidavit we have referred to that when the anslver to the third

amended libel was filed the proctor for the respondent knew
of the transaction with the insurance company. Even, therefore, if the fact was, as claimed, that the respondent would
have been entitled to receive from his underwriters one half of
whatever decree the libellants might be entitled to recover,
had the same been secured with reasonable diligence, and that
respondent had lost said recourse by reason of the bar of the
statute of limitations, still there is no pretence that the respondent was misled into believing that the libellants had
abandoned their claim against, him,_and the fact was that they
promptly brought. suit in this country to recover against the'
shipowner. Without ,considering the averment in the last
amendment to the libel, by which the recovery by the owner
of the Johnson from the Thirlmere was alleged, the first libel
informed the respondent that the claim arising from the bond
was pressed against him. If between the time of the filing of
the first libel (July 20, 1887) and the time of the hearing
(NI6vember 22, 1893) a claim against an insurance company in
favor of the respondent was lost by laches, such loss was the.
result of his own conduct.
Under all the circumstances, particularly as the rejection of
the claim in the courts of Great Britain was not upon the
merits, we.are of. opinion that the trial court did not abuse
its discretion in refusing leave to amend the answer.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Ayp~eals must be reversed,
and.that of the .DistrictCourt aJfirmed,and it is so ordered.

