OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

ington he assigned to Williams the investigation of Chinese
female cases, and while Mr. Williams was acting in that
behalf there were more females sent back to China than ever
were sent back before or after." The representative of the
Government Objected to this evidence as irrelevant, saying, in
open court, and presumably in the hearing of the jury, "no
doubt, every Chinese woman who did not pay Williams was
sent .back." The attorney for the.accused objected to the
prosecutor makifig any such statement before the jury. The
court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted.
The objection should have been sustained. The observation
,made by the prosecuting attorney was, under the circumstances, highly improper, and not having been withdrawn,
and the objection to it being overruled by the court, it tended
to prejudice the rights of the accused to a fair and impartial
trial for the particular offences charged.
For the several errors committed at the trial, to which we
have referred, the judgment is :reversed. in each case,
with directions to grant a new trial.
MR. 'JUSTICE BREwER did not hear the argument in this case
and did not participate in the decision.
MR.

JuSTiE-BRowx concurred in the result.

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 876. Argued November 9,10,189. - Declded November 29,1897.

This court follows the construction given by the Supreme Court of -the
State of Georgia to the statutes of. that State called .in question in this
case.
If, after a regular conviction and sentence .in that State, a suggestion of a
then existing insanity is made, it is not necessary, in order to constitute
"due process of law," that the question so presented should be tried by
a jury.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. .Marion IF. Barris for plaintiff in error. .Mr. VF C.
Glenn and Mr. D. I. Rountree were on his brief.
.r. J. M. Terrell for defendant in error.
XR. JusTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In July, 1895, Elizabeth Nobles was tried in thb Superior
Court of Twiggs County, Georgia, upon an indictment for
murder, and was found guilty and sentenced to death. The
bill of exceptions in the record now before us recites'that "the
said sentence of death having been regularly and legally suspended and superseded by the order of the court the case came
on again to be heard bef6re the court on the 23d day of June,"
the object of the hearing being, as stated, "for the purpose of
passing sentence of death by the court upon the said Elizabeth
Nobles in said stated case;" that is to say, in consequence of
the order which had suspended the sentence of death previously imposed in July, 1895. On the date of the appearance
for resentence, June 23, 1896, W. W. Baughn, the present
plaintiff in error, appeared on behalf of the convict and presented a moti6n or petition. The paper recited that the said
Elizabeth Nobles should not be sentenced "First, because, as petitioner avers, the said Elizabeth
Nobles is now insane.
"Second, because the said Elizabeth Nobles being now insane, it is contrary to the policy of the law and is illegal that the
sentence of death should be imposed upon her .by the court.
"And petitioner further says that under article 14 of the
amendments to the 'Oonstitution of the United States, it is
provided as follows: 'Nor shall a y State deprive any person
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the klws.'
"Petitioner says that due process of law means law in its
regular course of administration through courts of justice, and
that by the Fourteenth Amendment above quoted, whilst the
States have power to deal with crime within their borders, no
State can deprive any person of equal and impartial justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

under the law, and that law in its regular course of administratio-n through'courts of justice, is due process, and unless
the same-take place through courts of justice, the constitutional requirement above quoted is nullified.
"Petitioner, therefore, specially sets up and claims the right
of. due process of law through its regular administration
through courts of justice, under and by virtue of the constitutional guarantee under the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States above quoted.
"Petitioner says that it is essential to.due process of law
within the meaning of the above requirement that a jury be
empanelled on the issue now tendered by this petition, and
*that trial take place before a judge of the Superior Court of
the State of Georgia, according to the due and riegular form
of proceedings in our courts. Whenever an issue of fact is
made in a Superior Court in the State of Georgia the trial
of the questions thereby raised is a function of the Superior
Court of th6 county having jurisdict*ion, and that the trial of
the question raised by this petition is a function of the Superior Court of Twiggs County, in which said court the said
Mirs. Nobles was convicted of murder.
":Petitioner further says that the proceedings contemplated
under section 4666 of the Code of Georgia are not due process
of law for these reasons, to wit."
The grounds alleged were eight in number, and in substance.
charged that the method of inquiry provided by the Georgia
statutes for ascertaining whether one who had been convicted
of crime was insane at the time of the inquiry was not due
process of law under the Constitution of the United States,
because the- investigation which the law authorized was not
judicial in character. The detailed enumeration of why the
remedy provided by the statute was asserted in the petition
not to be judicial as well as the prayer of the petition are set
out in the margin.'
i',s.

Because'the same does not take place in any court of this

State.
1"2d. Because no rules of evidence or method of procedure are prescribed in such inquisition, and no proper method for the drawing, sum-

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

*The court refused to grant the petition, and resentenced
the prisoner to the death penalty. Thereupon the petition
was again presented, and upon its being again refused, exceptions were noted. The case, on the exceptions reserved, as
just stated, was taken to the Supreme Court of the State of
Georgia, where the action of the lower court was affirmed,
and to this judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Georgia this writ of error is prosecuted. There is no question
moning and empanelling a jury, and for the subpcenaing and examination of
witnesses is provided.
"3d. Because no judge or presiding officer is charged with the function
of ruling in or out evidence which may be tendered on said issue.
"4th. Because no judge or presiding officer is provided in said proceeding whose duty it is to instruct the jury on the law involved in the questions
raised and to make rulings on evidence which may be tendered for or against
the person said to be insane.
"5th. Because there is no method of moving for a new trial or of correcting any errors vhich may take place in said 'proceeding.
"6th. Because said proceeding is one not known to the common law in
ascertaining the facts involved according to the settled principles of the
law of the land.
"7Vh. Because the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia has held that
the said proceeding is in no sense a judicial proceeding, but is a mere inquisition from which there is no appeal.
"8th. Because no manner of review whatever is permissible from the
findings of said inquisition.
"9tw. Because the proceedings before said inquisition do not take place
before a court in the due course of the administration of justice. And
petitioner says that the inquisition provided for a denial by the State of
such due process of law as is guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States, and petitioner especially claims the privilege and right, under the
United States Constitution, to have due process of law for the ascertainment of'the truth of the issue now here tendered'to the court.
," Petitipner further says that by the settled principles of the common
law the ascertainment of the fact of sanity or insanity at any stage of the
proceedings in the course of a legal investigation was a function of the
trial court; that is, of the court having jurisdiction of the crime itself
and of the criminal, whether before or after arraignment, before or after
conviction, or after conviction and before execution, or before qr after
judgment, and that the settled and orderly course of procedure was the
summoning of a jury and a trial of this issue under the forms of law, by
Introduction of evidence under the rulings of the judge of the said court,
and whose duly it was to instruct the jury upon the law of the issues involved and to aid them in making a verdict. And petitioner says that each
VOL. CLxvm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

raised that the statutes of Georgia do not afford adequate
means for trying by court and jury any question made as tb
the insanity of the accused at the time of the commission of a
crime.
The statute law of Georgia directly applicable to and involved in this controversy is as follows:
Georgia Code (1882), 4666; Code (1895), 10447, 1049. Become insane after conviction: "If, after any convict shall
have bden sentenced to the punishment of death, he shall become insane, the sheriff of the county, with the concurrence
and assistance of the Ordinary thereof, -shall summon a jury
of twelvemen to inquire in'to such insanity; and if it be found,
by the inquisition of such jury, that such convict is insane, the
sheriff shall suspend the execution of the sentetice directihg
the death of such convict, and make report of the said inquisition and suspension of execution, to the presiding judge of
-the district, who shall cause the same to be entered on the
minutes of the Superior Court of the county where the conviction was had. And, at any time *thereafter, when it shall
appear to the said presiding judge, either by inquisition or
otherwise,, that the said convict is of sound mind, the said
judge shall issue a new warrant, directing the sheriff to do exeand all and every one of these proceedings named,-and also the right to the
court's process for the compelling the attendance of the witnesses to testify
upon said issue, as well as such other proceedings add process and rights.
as are usually incident to trials before the Superior Courts of the State, are
essential to due process of law within the meaning of the Constitution of
the United States, and petitioner now here claims the right to such proceedings under and by virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
"Wherefore, petitioner, now in behalf of the said Elizabeth Nobles,
whom petitioner avers is mentally incapacitated because of her present
- insanity to take any legal steps in her own behalf, the premises considered,
prays the court for a trial by jury of the said question of insanity; that the
court cause jurors to be. regularly summoned and empanelled to try said
issue, and that such other proceedings be had in that regard as are usually
incident to trials in said court; and that petitioner have the right to the
court's process to compel the attendance of witnesses and to such other
processes as may be right and necessary, and that said sentence be postponed and suspended till the final adjudicatioi of the question raised by
this petition."

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the, Court.

cution of the said sentence on the said convict, at such time
and place as the said judge may appoint and direct in the said
warrant, which the sheriff shall be bound to do accordingly.
And the said judge shall cause the said new warrant, and
other proceedings in the case to be entered on the minutes of
the said Superior Court."
The provisions of this section are a reproduction in the Code
of. prior legislatio4 (Georgia Acts of 1855-6, p. 36; 1859,

p. 50):
Georgia Code (1882), 4666 a; Code (I895), 1048. .lunatics,
how disposed of; "When any person shall, after conviction of
a capital crime; become insane, and shall be so declared in
accordance with the provisions of section 4666 of the code, it
shall be the duty of the judge to certify the fact, and the said
convict shall be received into the lunatic asylum, there to be
safely and securely kept, and treated as other adjudged insane persons."
The provisions of this section are a reproduction in the Code
of an act passed in 1874. (Georgia Acts of 1874, p. 30.)
The above sections, as existing in the Georgia Code of 1882,
were cited by"the Supreme Court of Georgia as controlling,
and the brief for the plaintiff in error also states this to be
the case. We have given the corresponding sections in the
Code of 1895, although such sections as reproduced in the
latter Code are in three sections and are somewhat altered in
phraseology, but not so as to be material to the issue before us.
In the argument at bar the contention was, that these sections of the Georgia law afforded an opportunity to investigate
the question of the insanity of a person convicted of crime
only when the suggestion of insanity was made after-conviction and sentence, and, therefore, that the statutes furnished
no means of testing the question of insanity arising after conviction and before sentence, and this fact, it was asserted,
amounted to a denial of due process of law under the.Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The construction of the statutes upon which this proposition
was predicated is as follows: Although the text of section
4666 a, which provides for an investigation into the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
,Opinion of the Court,

of insanity, when "any person shall, after conviction of a
capital crime, become insane," is conceded to be broad enough
to cover all cases arising between conviction and sentence,
yet, the words "after conviction" it is urged should be construed as applying only, to insanity arising after conviction
and sentence, because section 4666 provides only for an inves-

tigation "after the convict shall have been sentenced." That
is to say, the construction contended for, instead of treating
the two sections of the code as in pari materia,and construing
them together so as to give effect to both, restricts and limits
the natural and obvious meaning of the later statute by incorporating into it the provisions of the earlier one. If the
contention that the words "after sentence" in the earlier
statute only apply to cases where insanity is suggested after
sentence, and not to those where it is claimed to have arisen
between 'conviction and sentence, then the provision in the
subsequent 'section, extending the remedy to cases arising
"after conviction," cured the omission, if any there was, in
the first statute. Instead, then, of construing the earlier as
controlling the later statute, the elementary rule of interpretation would require that the later be considered as amplifying and providing for the thing omitted in the prior statute.
While these conclusions are obvious, we are nevertheless
relieved from the necessity of so deciding, since the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State in the case before us.
expressly holds that "the provisions of the code relating to
inquisitions in such matters are sufficiently comprehensive to
cover all cases where the alleged insanity begins at any time
after the rendition of the verdict of guilty." We follow the
interpretation given by the Supreme Court of the State of
Georgia to the statutes of that State.
Indeed,. the question which arises on the record does not
require a consideration of what would be due process of law
under the Fourteenth Amendment where insanity was suggested between verdict and sentence, or even at the. time of.
sentence. This results from the fact that the suggestion of
insanity relied on was made, not at the time of sentence, but
,long after the sentence had been imposed. As stated, the bill

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

of exceptions recites that the accused had beearsentenced to
death at the term of court where the verdict of guilty was
found, that is, in July, 1895, and that when called into court
again, in'June, 1896, it was for a resentence upon the verdict,
because of the previous sentence "having been regularly and
legally superseded by the *orderof the court." In the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Georgia in this case it finds this fact
and holds that under the Georgia statutes the proceeding had
in June, 1896, although called a resentence, was in legal effect
but a fixing of a new date for the execution of the previous
sentence, the date fixed in the prior sentence having expired.
In other wokds, the Supreme Court of Georgia holds that the
prior sentence remained in force, and that the subsequent
action of the coui'rt was but a mere fixing of the date for its
execution. We take notice of the finding of fact, Egan v.
-art, 165 U. S. 188, and follow the legal conclusions of the
court, and are bound by them, since they involve but a construction by the court of last resort of the State of Georgia
of the statutes of that State. regulating the effect of a resentence in case the date fixed in a former sentence hag lapsed.
From these considerations it follows that the only question
which we are called upon to determine is whether, after a
regular conviction and sentence, a suggestion of a then existing insanity is made, it is necessary, in order to constitute due
process of law, that the question so presented should be tried
by a jury-in a judicial proceeding surrounded by all the safeguards and requirements of a common law jury trial, and
even although by the state law full and adequate administrative and quasi judicial process is created for the purpose
of investigating the suggestion. Without analysis of the
contention, it might well suffice to demonstrate its obvious
unsoundness by pointing to the absurd conclusion which
would result from its establishment. If it were true that at
common law a suggestion of insanity after sentence, created
on the part of a convict an absolute right to a trial of this
issue by a judge and jury, then (as a finding that insanity
did not exist at one time would not be the thing adjudged
as to its non-existence at another) it would be wholly at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

will of a convict to suffer any punishment whatever, for the
necessity of his doing so would depend solely upon his fecundity in making suggestion after suggestion of insanity, to be
followed by trial upon trial. Nor is this so extreme a possibility- that it should not be supposed, since in the argument
at bar it was admitted that the sentence first imposed was
suspended because the record was taken to the Supreme Court
of Georgia, where the question of the existence of insanity
was either directly or indirectly adversely decided.
Blackstone, it is urged, supports the proposition that at
common law there was an imperative duty, on the suggestion of the insanity of a convict, to try the issue by judge
and jury. The text to which reference is made is as follows
(4 Bl. Com. 24, 25):
"Also, if a man in his sound memory commits a capital
offence, and before arraignment for' it, he becomes mad, he
ought not to be arraigned for it; because he is not able to'
plead to it with that advice and caution that he ought. And
if, after he has pleaded, the prisoner becomes mad, he shall
not be tried; for how can he make his defence? If, after he
be tried and found guilty, he lose his senses before ,judgment,
judgment shall not be pronounced; and if, after judgment, he
becomes of non-sane memory, execution shall be stayed: for
peradventure, says the humanity of the English law, had the
prisoner been of sound memory he might have alleged some-.
thing in stay of judgment or execution."
And 1 Hale P. C. 34, 35, is referred to as being to the same
effect. But nothing in these citations is pertinent to the issue
under consideration. It is agreed that at common law an
insane person was pot to suffer punishment. The question
here is, what, after conviction and sentence, was the method
by which the existence of insanity in. the convict was to be
ascertained when a suggestion of such insanity was made. In
speaking on this subject, Blackstone says (Book-4, p. 395):
"Another cause of regular reprieve is, if the defendant
becomes non compos between the judgment. and the award
of execution: for regularly, as was formerly observed, though
a man be compos when he cominits a capital crime, yet if he

NOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

becomes non compos after, he shall not be indicted; if after
indictment, he shall iot be .convicted; if after conviction, he
shall not receive judgment; if after judgment, he shall not be
ordered for execution: for 'furiosus solo furorespunitur,'and
the law knows not that he might have offered some reason, if
in his senses, to have stayed these respective proceedings. It
is, therefore, an invariable rule, when any time intervenes between the attainder and the award of execution, to demand of
the prisoner what he hath to allege why execution should not
bG awarded against him: and if he appears to be insane, the
judge, in his discretion, may, and ought to, reprieve him."
In other words, by the common law, if, after conviction
and sentence, a suggestion of insanity was made, not that
the judge to whom it was made should, as a matter of right,
proceed to summon a jury and have another trial, but that
he should take- such action as, in his discretion, he deemed
best. In Laro v. Commonwealth, 84 Penn. St. 200, where a
suggestion of insanity was made after verdict, the court said
(p. 210):
"The last three assignments of error raise a single question
upon the power of the court to inquire by inspection and per
testes into the insanity of the prisoner since verdict. We have
no precedents in this State, known to us, how the inquiry shall
be conducted when such a plea in bar of sentence is put in.
It seems to us, however, that no right of trial by jury is
involved in the question. A jury having found a verdict
against the plea of insanity when set. kip as a defence to conviction, subsequent insanity cannot be set up in disproof of the
conviction. The plea at this stage is only an appeal to the
humanity of the court to postpone the punishment until a
recovery takes place, or as a merciful .dispensation.
"The rights of the prisoner as an offender on trial for an
offence are not involved. -He has had the benefit of a jury
trial, and it is now the court only which must be satisfied on
the score of humanity. If the right of trial by jury exist at
all, it must exist at all times, no matter how often the plea is
repeated alleging insanity occurring since the last verdict.
Such a right is inconsistent with the due administration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the'Court.

justice. There must be a sound discretion to be exercised by
the court. If a case of real doubt arise, a just judge will not
fail to relieve his own conscience by. submitting the fact to a
jury.3)
In Bonds v. Tennessee (1827), Martin & Yerger, 142, the
accused was convicted of the crime of murder, and upon being
led to the bar and asked by the court if he had anything to
say why sentence of death should not be pronounced against
him, though his counsel alleged that he was at the time a
lunatic, and that sentence could not be passed upon him, and
offered to plead his lunacy in bar of the sentence, and further
demanded of the court that a jury be called to try the issue of
fact arising upon the plea. But the court, upon. the inspection
of the prisoner and upon consideration of the case -because
probable that the defendant
nothing was shown to render it.
was a lunatic, or to make that matter doubtful -refused to
allow the prisoner his plea aforesaid, and denied him the privilege of a jury to try the question of his sanity or'insanity, and
passed upon the accused the sentence of death. In support of
his claim that the right to have a jury try the plea of insanity
was absolute, and that.it was not a matter of choice or discretion with the court to deny the application, counsel for the
accused relied upon a statement made in 1 Chitty Cr.Law, 761,
to wit, that "The judge may, if he pleases, swear a jury to
inquire, ex officio, whether the prisoner is really insane, or
merely counterfeits; and, if they find the former, he is bound
to reprieve him till the ensuing session." But the reviewing
court said: "The meaning of this passage, giving it a reasonable construction, must be that, if upon the question made, the
judge is not satisfied, or has doubts, he may call in to his
assistance the aid of a jury, and submit the matter -to them.
The law on this point is more fully stated in 1 Hawk. 1. 0.
p. 3, in the notes, where it is said: 'Every person of the age
of discretion is presumed of sane memory, until the contrary
appears, which may be, either by the inspection of the court
(1 Hale, 33; Tr. per pais 1.1; 0. B. 1783, No. 4); by evidence
given to the jury, who are charged to try the indictment, (3
Bac. Abr. 81; 1 Hale, 33, 35, 36; 0. B. 1784, No. 283,) or,

IOBLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court

being a collateral issue, the fact may be pleaded and*replied to
ore temus, and a venire awarded, returnable instanter in the
nature of an inquest of office. (Fost. 46; Kel. 13; 1 Lev. 61;
1 Sid. 72; 4 Comm. Appen. sec. 3.) And this method, in cases
of importance, doubt of difficulty, the court will, in prudence
and discretion, adopt. (1 Hale, 35.)' From this it appears
that inspection by the court is one of the legal modes of trying
the fact of insanity, and nothing appears in the record of this
case to show that the discretion of the court, in adopting the
mode pursued, was erroneously exercised. This court, therefore, is of opinion that there is no error in the matter of
the first bill of exceptions." (In making the foregoing quotation we have corrected what seem to be typographical errors
in the extract from the marginal note to section 4, chapter 1,
book first of Hawkins' Treatise, conforming it to the note as
found in the sixth edition, by Leach.)
It being demonstrated by reason and authority that at common law a suggestion made after verdict and sentence of
insanity did not give rise to an absolute right on the part of a
convict to have such issue tried before the court and to a jury,
but addressed itself to the discretion of the judge, it follows
that the manner in which such question should be determined
was purely a matter of legislative regulation. It was, therefore, a subject within the control of the State of Georgia.
Because we have confined our opinion exclusively to the 'question before us, that is, the right arising on a suggestion of insanity after sentence, we must not be understood as implying
that a different rule would prevail after verdict and up to and
including sentence, or as passing upon the question whether,
under the Fourteenth Amendment, a State is without power
to relegate the decision of a question of insanity, when raised
before conviction, to such apt and special tribunal .s the law
might deem best.

4ffirmed.

