OF THE UNITED STATES.

be sustained in the Courts of the United States;
in the judgment which
and that there is no error
"
was rendered against them in the District Court
of Illinois.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

and others, Plaintiffs
in Error,

ARCHIBALD GRACiE

V.

JoN PALMER and others, Defendantsin Error.
By a -charter-party, the sum of 50,000 dollars was agreed to be paid
for the use or hire of the ship, on a voyage from Pbiladelphi4
to Madeira, and thence to Bombay, and at the option of the charterer to Calcutta, and back to Philadelphia, (with an addition of
2000 dollars, if she should proceed to Calcutta,) the whole payable
on the return of the ship to Philadelphia, and before the discharge
of her cargo there, in approved notes, not exceeding an average
time of 90 days from the time at- which she should be ready to discharge her cargo. The charterer proceeded in the ship to Calcutta, and, with the consent of the master, (who was appointed by
the ship-owners,) entered into an agreement with P. &, Co. merchants there, that if they would make him an advance of money,
he would deliver to them a bill of lading stipulating for the delivery
of the goods purchased therewith to their agents in Philadelphia,
free of freight, who should be authorized to sell the same, and
apply the proceeds to the repayment of the said advance, unless
the charterer's bills, drawn on G. & S. of Philadelphia, should be
accepted, in which event the agents of P. 8t Co. should deliver the
goods to the charterer. The goods were shipped accordingly, and
a bill of lading signed by the master, with the clause, " freight for
the said goods having been settled here." The bills of exchange
drawn by the charterer were refused acceptance, and the agents of
P. & Co. demanded the goods, which the owners of the ship refused
to deliver without the payment of freight: Hed, that the owners of
the ship had a lien on these goods for the freight.

65
182M
oracle

X
pa t.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the eastern
District
of Pennsylvania. This was an action of
Grade
V. assumpsit, brought by the Jefendants in error
Palmer. against the plaintiffs in error, to recover back the
1823.

sum of 10,500 dollars, paid under the circumstances stated in the following case, to be considered as a special verdict.
On the 23d of October, 1818, -the defendants,
being the owners of the ship America, chartered
her to Hugh Chambers, by the following charterparty: "This charter-party, indented, made, and
entered upon, this 23d day of October, in the
year of our Lord 1818, between Archibald Gracie,
William Gracie, and Charles King, the persons
constituting the copartnership or house of trade,
under the firm and style of Archibald Gracie &
Sons, of the city of New-York, owners of the
ship or vessel called the America, of New-York,
of the burden of 460 tons, or thereabouts, register admeasurement, of the first part, and Hugh
Chambers, of the city-of Philadelphia, merchant,
of the other part, witnesseth, that the said ownbrs
have let, and the said Hugh Chambers hath taken
and hired the said vessel, to freight for the voyage, upon -the terms and conditions following:
whereupon the said owners do covenant, promise,
and agree, to and with the said charterer, by
these presents, that the said vessel shall be tight,
stanch, and strong, well and sufficiently fitted,
manned, provided, and furnished with all things
needful and necessary for such vessel, on her intended ioyage, herein after mentioned, and provisioned for the term of eighteen months, and

OF THE UNITED STATES,

fully and properly armed with large and small
arms, and with sufficient ammunition for the same;
and that she shall, on or before the 15th day of
November next, be in readiness, at the port of
Philadelphia, to receive and take on board, and
shall there, when tendered within reach of her
tackle, receive and take on board all such lawful
goods and merchandise, as the said charterer may
think proper to ship, not exceeding what she can
reasonably store and carry, over and above her
tackle, apparel, provisions, armament, and other
necessaries, and the privileges herein after reserved for the master, and first and second officers, and the lading of the dollars to be shipped
by the owners, as herein after mentioned; and
that the said ship shall be in readiness to sail from
Philadelphia aforesaid, and, on being loaded
and afterwards despatched, shall and will, (wind
and weather permitting,) set sail from the said
port of Philadelphia, on or before the 30th day
of November next, and proceed to the island of
M.adeira; and shall and will there make a right
and true delivery of such quantities of goods and
merchandise, as shall be there deliverable, loaded
at Philadelphia aforesaid, to such.persons as the
same shall have been consigned to; and the same
being so unloaded, the said ship shall and will receive and take on board all such legal goods,
wares, and merchandise whatsoever, as shall be
offered and tendered, within reach of her tackle,
by or for account of the said Hugh Chambers,
not exceeding as aforesaid. And as soon as the
said ship shall be thus loaded at Madeira afore-

607
1823.
Gracla

v.
t

U*

l
~"

,
PI.

CASES IN THE SUPREME CC).RT

said, she shall and will set sail and depart from
thence, (wind and weather permitting,) and directly-proceed on hek voyage, and put into the part
of Bombay, in the East Indies; and that she shall,
at the option of the said Hugh Chambers, his
agent or agents, be allowed also to put into Calcutta, and deliver her cargo, and take in returns
there. And at the said ports of Bombay and Calcutta, respectively, unlade all such goods and
mer6handise as shall remain on board, and relade
such lawful goods. wares, and merchandise, as
the said-charterer, his agents, factors, or assigns,
shall think fit to charge and lade on board,
over and above, and not exceeding as aforesaid,
and the lading, for account of the said owners,
in respect .of the returns for the said funds,
in dollars. to be shipped by them; and that
the said ship shall and will, with her said return
loading, (wind and weather permitting,) sail and
proceed back to the said port of Philadelphia;
and there deliver, unto the said charterer, his executors, administrators, or assigns, the full and
entire cargo laden and taken on board the said
ship at Bombay, and Calcutta, aforesaid, for his
account; upon the entire delivery whereof, the
said intended voyage shall end and be determined,
(the dangers of the seas, restraints of prinoes and
rulers, and all other unavoidable casualties, always
being excepted by these presents.) And it in
hereby agreed, that the said owners shall load -and
ship, on board the said vessel, for the said voyage,
15,000 Spanish milled dollars, to be invested in
goods and merchandise in India, in like manner

OF THE UNITED STATES,

as the residue of the cargo in general, and that
they shall be chargeable with freight on the returns thereof, at the rate of 50 dollars per ton; or,
if the said returng shall-be in.goods and merchandise, usually chargeable with, or taken on, freight,
by weight, that the same shall be estimated at
such rate as shall be equivalent to that sum by the
tor; and also, that the commission to be allowed
the supercargo of the said ship, shall be a clear
commission of five per centum on the amount of
the investment in India. And it is further agreed,
that the said charterer shall furnish and supply
the needful and sufficient cabin stores to and for
the supercargo, master,. and officers, of the said
ship, for the said voyage, and that the owners.shall
and will allow, and pay to him therefor, the sum of
1500 dollars; and, also, that the cabin shall belong to the said charterer, (excepting the respective state rooms in which the master and officera
shall sleep.) And it is hereby further agreed, and
granted and reserved, that the master shall have
a privilege of ixcubic tons, freight free; the first
officer a like free privilege of three cubic t6ns,
and the second officer a like free privilege of twa
cubic tons, provided, that neither of the said privileges shall be used for the purpose of shipping
flour out in the said ship. And the said charterer,
for himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, doth hereby covenant and agree with the said
owners, that the said charterer will well and truly
pay and satisfy all the port charges and expenses
of the said ship, as well abroad as at Philadelphia aforesaid, until she shall have discharged
VOL. VII.

77

60
12.
Grae

Y.
Pdmez

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Gradie

V.

her return cargo, excepting always the sea-stores,
the wages of the master, officers, and crew, and
the repairs and outfits of the said ship, with all
which she is to be chargeable. And it is hereby
further agreed, that there be allowed, and are
granted, one hundred and twenty working days in
all, for the loading and unloading of the said ship
at.the ports and places of loading and delivery,
and that the time not used and occupied at one
port or place, may be taken or inade up at the
others, so that the whole do not exceed the number allowed as above mentioned; and that for
every detention, over and above the said one hundred and twenty days, the said charterers shall
pay to the said owners the sum of 75 dollars per
day, to be paid in like manner as the freight. And
the said charterer, for himself, his heirs, executors,
and administrators, doth hereby promise and agree,
with the said owners, their executors, administrators, and assigns, that he will cause the said ship
or vessel to be loaded at the said port of Philadelphia, on her being in readiness to receive her
funds and cargo there, and reloaded at the island
of Madeira, and at Bombay and Calcutta, in the
manner above expressed ; and that he will pay to
them, on the return of the said ship to Philadelphia, and before the discharge of her cargo
there, in approved notes, not exceeding an average
time of ninety days from the time at which she
shall be ready to discharge her cargo, the clear
sum of 30,000 dollars; and if she shall have proceeded to Calcutta, the further sum of 2000 dollars, for the hire and freight of the said ship, for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the said voyage. In witness whereof, the said
owners and charterer have to these presents, in
duplicate, set their hands and seals, the day and

1823.

year first above written.

Palmer.

"ARcH. GRACIE & SONS.

[L. s.]

"HUGH, CHAMBERS."

[L. S.]

On the 28th of November, 1818, the America
sailed from Philadelphia, upon the voyage in the
charter-party mentioned, laden with sundry goods,
and also 15,000 dollars in specie, the property of
the- defendants. The flour and other merchandise
were delivered at Madeira, and the quantity of
207 pipes of wine, purchased with the proceeds,
or part thereof, was there laden on board the
America, and made deliverable in India. The
America proceeded from Madeira to Calcutta,
where the quantity of about 324 tons of her burthen was filled up from the proceeds of the outward cargo, and with such parts of the wine, taken
in at Madeira, as was not disposed of at Calcutta;
and the merchandise so taken in was made deliverable to sundry consignees, in the port of Philadelphia. Hugh Chambers, the charterer, was
on board the said ship at Calcutta, and it was impracticable to obtain any freight for the said ship
at the said port, beyond the amount so laden as
aforesaid; nor could any person be induced there
to ship on board of her any other goods, deliverable in the United States, upon the condition of
paying, or being liable, for any freight whatever.
Whereupon, the said Chambers applied to the
plaintiffs to make him an advance, for the purpose
of purchasing merchandise to ship on board the

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

If8.

ship America, and did then and there, with the
and consent of Edward Rosseter, the
captain or master of the said ship America, enter
into an agreement with the plaintiffs, that if they
would make such an advance, he would leave the
merchandise purchased therewith in their hands,
as a security for the said advance while in Calcutta,
and woiild, when shipped on board the America,
dbdliver to them a bill .of lading, stipulating for
the delivery thereof to their agents in Philadelphia,
free of frefght, who should be authorized to sell
the same,. and apply the proceeds to the payment
6f the said advance, unless the said Hugh Chambers' bills for thie same, drawn upon Messrs.
Grants & Stone, of Philadelphia, should be accepted, and the consigner should feel perfectly
assured they would be paid at maturity; in which
.event, the said agents should deliver the said
merchandise to him. That the said plaintiffs accordingly made the said advance, received the
said goods as they were purchased, and shipped
them on board the said ship America; for which
shipment, the said master signed and delivered
the following bill of lading to the plaintiffs, which
the said Chambers endorsed.
"Shipped, in good order, and well conditioned,
by Hugh Chambers, in and upon the good ship,
called the America, whereof is master for this
present voyage, Edward Rosseter, and now lying
in the port of Calcutta, and bound for Philadelphia, to say, seven hundred and forty-six bags, and
sixty-five boxes of sugai, five hundred and eightynine bags of saltpetre, ten hundred and sixty

Sknowledge

,.i
P'~*

OF TILE UNITED STATES.

alff

bags of ginger, thirty-five bags of aniseed, thirty- 182
two boxes of borax, thirty-two of castor oil, three
hundred and three bundles of twine, thirty-five
v.
bales of goat skins, six thousand one hundred and
.
sixty horns and born tips, two hundred and sixty
cow hides, fifteen hundred and sixty-nine gunny
bags, two bales of seesuckers, two boxes of choppas, six bales of sannahs, five bales of checks,
twenty-two bales of gurrahs,'and one box of mull
muslins. On account and risk of Hugh Chambers of Philadelphia, being marked and numbered
as in the margin; and are to be delivered in the like
good order, and well conditioned, at the aforesaid
port of Philadelphia, (the danger of the seas only
excepted,) unto Messrs. T. M. & R. Willing, or
to their assigns. Freight for the said goods having-been settled here.
A'In witness whereof, the master or purser of the
said ship, bath affirmed to five bills of ladifig, all
of this tenor and date; one of which being accompliahed, the others to stand void. Dated Calcutta, 7th of September, 1819.
"Contents'unknown.
" EDWARD ROSSETER."
"Marks and numbers on the*back Lif this bill,

countersigned. Hugl Chambers."
That the said Chambers, at the same time, drew,
and delivered to the plaintiffs, the said bills of ex-change upon Messrs. Grants & Stone, for the aim
of 8042 pounds 8 shillings and 4 pence sterling,
beingthe amount of the said advance; which said
bills were afterwards duly presented to Grants &
Stone for acceptance, who refused to accept the
same, and they were afterwards duly protested for

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

non-payment, and now remain unpaid. That
the said agreement to deliver the said goods withG]raci6
V. out paying freight, and the said bill of lading and
Palmer. endorsements, were made by the said Chambers,
by Edward Rosseter, and by the plaintiffd, in good
faith; and without them the said plaintiffs would
not have made the said advance, nor shipped the
said goods ; and the receipt of the said goods on
board the America, by the said master, under the
said agreement, and signing the bill of lading in
the terms aforesaid, were, under the circumstances
of the case at the time, the best he could do for
the interest of the owners of' the ship. That the
said plaintiffs were informed by Hugh Chambers,
that the America was chartered by the said Chambers for a specific sum, and that the stock or merchandise originally placed on board of her' at the
&omriencement of the voyage, and its proceeds,
were solely and sufficiently a pledge for the payment of the same. ,That the America arrived in
the port of Philadelphia, on or about the,'29th of
February, 1820, when the defendants gave notice
to the said Chambers, that they had ent6ted the
ship, and were keady to deliver the goods, after
payment of the freight Stipulated by the charterparty. On the 1st of March, 1820, the said
Chambers replied to the defendants, that he was
unable to comply with the requisitions of the charter-party. On the 2d of March, 1820, the defendants gave notice to all the consignees of goods
on board the America, as by letter of that date.to
T. M. & R. Willing. On the 3d of March, 1820,
Thomas M. & R. Willing, the consignees of the
merchandise shipped by the plaintiffs, demanded
1823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the defendants, and of Edward Rosseter, the
master, the delivery thereof, without paying freight,
and protested against the payment ofany freight.
On the 6th of March, 1820, the defendants refused to deliver the said merchandise without paying freight. On the same day, the said T. M. &
R. Willing, on behalf of the plaintiffs, replied to
the defendants, and repeated the protest against
paying any freight for the said merchandise, and
their refusal to pay any freight, unless they should
be compelled to do it, in order to obtain possession
of the said goods. The said T. M. & R. Willing,
being unable otherwise to obtain the said merchandises from on board the ship America, paid, as the
agents of the plaintiffs, and in their behalf, to the
defendants, the sum of 10,000 dollars; which
payment was made in acceptances of the defendant's drafts, dated the 29th of March, 1820, atninety
days, and duly paid, the 30th of June, 1820. The said
payment was compelled by the defendants, under
their claim of freight, and in consequence of their
having the custody of the said merchandises, and
was made under protest by the said T. M. & R.
Willing. In consequence of the said payment,
the said merchandises were delivered by the defendants to the said T. M. & R. Willing, as
agents and consignees of the plaintiffs. There
were other merchandises on board the said ship,
exclusive of those consigned to the said T. M. &
R. Willing, sufficient in value to pay the whole
freight due by the said charter-party. If, upon
the whole matter, the Court shall be of opinion,
that the defendants had no right to detain the said

615

182S.
Grade

V.

Palmer.

CASES IN.THE SUPREME COURT

I=.

gods for. freightjudgment to be entered for the

.Grad~e

plaintiffs for the sum of 10,500 dollars, with costa

V.
Pamer.

of suit.
If, upon the contary, the Court shall be of
opinion that the defendants had such right, then
judgment to be entered for the defendants.
Judgment being given upon this case for. the
plaintiffs below, the cause was brought by writ of
error to this Court.

Mara 5.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the plaintiffs in error,
stated, that the genetSl principle being, that the
ship-owners have a lien for the. freight, it must be
shown that they have parted with it in this case,
either by the terms of the charter-party, or are deprived of it by the particular circumstances of the
ease.
1. As to the terms of the charter-party; the
question is, whether the possession is fully parted
with, so that the charterer has the complete con.trol of the ship.a The entire instrument must be
taken together, and by that it will appear, that the
ship-owners hired and paid the master and crew;
and there is an express covenant, on the part of
the owners, for the carriage and delivery of the
goods, and on the part of the charterer for the
payment of the freight before the goods are delivered.
2. As to the particular circumstances of the
a HoQe v. Groverman, 1 Cranch's ReP'. 237. Marcardier v.
Chesapeake Ins. Co. 8 Cranch'8 Rep. 39. 49. Christie v. Lewisj
2 Bred.8f Bingh. 410. The Nereide, 9 Cranck's Pxp. 388. 424.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

case, the question is, was any freight due ? By 182$.
the charter-party, the vessel was bound to receive Gragie
all goods shipped by the charterer or his agent.
V.
Palmer.
borrowed
He
description.
that
of
This cargo was
money, and purchased the goods on his own account. They were to be delivered to the Messrs.
Willings, as a security for the repayment of the
money borrowed, and to be sold by them as the
agents of the lender. Can the charterer, by any
separate act of his, vary the right of the owner ?
Must not all the goods.shipped by the charterer,
be considered as under the charter-party ? It is
not within the scope of the master's authority to
dispense with the conditions of the charter-party.
The mome~t the goods were put on board the
ship, they were in possession of the owners, who
had a lien on them for the freight. The bill of
lading could not discharge this lien. The consignees alone were capable of endorsing the bill
of lading, go as to operate a valid transfer. The
charterer had no right to pay his own debt with
the freight due to the owners, and the master had
no right to bring goods free of freight.
But suppose the goods were the property of the
Messrs. Palmers; the right to freight must depend on the circumstances. The master has
power to bind the owner as to the contract of affreightment, but not to transport without freight.
The owner may limit his powers by the charterparty; and all that can be required, is, that the
shippers of goods should know, or have an opportunity of knowing, the restrictions upon the master's authority. The master was not on a general
VOL. VIII.

78

CASES IN THE SUPREIME COURT

1823.

voyage, seeking for freight, but was to perform his
to the owners under that charter-party. The
v.
shippers knew this, and had an opportunity of inPalmer. specting the charter-party, and julging for them-

'duty
Gracie

selves whether the master was authorized to assent
to such a contract. They knew that the cargo
was pledged for the freight, both by the general
law, and by the particular provisions of this charter-party. This case is precisely similar to the
very recent case of Faith v. The East India
Company, where the English Court of K. B.
held, that the ship-owner could not be devested
of his lien for freight, by such a transaction between the chatterer and shipper, who were cognizant of the terms of the charter-party.a The
a 4 Banuw. 4-.Ad. 630. [The case of Paithv. The East India
Company, was as follows: The plaintiff, Faith, was the owner
of the ship Eliza, of which Sivrac was master, and entered into
a charter-party with Gooch, by which freight was agreed to be
paid, for the use or hire of the ship, at a certain rate per ton, for
a voyage to India, out and home, in the following manner, viz. a
certain sum in advance, on the ship's clearing outwards, and the
residue, half in cash, and half in approved bills, upon the delivery
of the homeward cargo. The owner appointed Sivrac master, at
thie request of Gooch, the charterer, who executed a bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of the master's duty; and the
owner instructed the master to be careful to sign all bills of lading
with the clause C1freight payable as by charter-party." The ship
was consigned to Colvins & Co., in Calcutta, by whom she was
put up, for her homeward voyage, as a general ship, and different
merchants shipped goods by her, C. & Co. taking, for homeward
freight, bills payable 60 days after delivery of the cargo; and a
new master having been appointed by C. & Co., in conjunction
with Sivrac, signed bills of lading with the clause 11paying freight
agreeable to freight bill." The freight bills were made payable in

London, to Bazett & Co., to whom the charterer was indebted for

619

OF THE UNITED STATES.

case of Hutton v. Bragg,' which determined
against the lien, in a case of a general letting of
the ship, has been since overruled.

1823.
Grade

I.
Palmer.

Mr. Sergeant, contra, contended, 1. That the
goods of a third person, carried in a chartered
ship, are not liable for the freight due by charterparty, but only for what is due for their own carriage, as stipulated by the bill of lading at the
time of shipment. It would follow, that if the
freight be paid beforehand, bana fide, or it be
stipulated, that they shall be carried free of freight,
they are not liable at all.
2. That the goods in question were, both at

law and in equity, the goods of a third person.
It would follow, that having been fhirly shipped
under an agreement made with the charterer and
the master, that they should pay no freight, the
ship-owners had no lien upon them.
1. The first position is equally supported by
authority, by principle, and by the convenience
advances on the outward cargo, and who, as well as Colvins & Co.,
were cognizant of the terms of the charter-party. The Court of
King's Bench held, that the owner of the ship had a lien on these
goods to the extent of the homeward freight. Colvins & Co. also
put on board the ship goods purchased by them on account of the
charterer; but he being indebted to them, and Bazett & Co., their
agents, those goods were, by the bill of lading, consigned to
B. & Co. The Court also held, that as between the owner of the
ship and Bazett & Co., the goods were to be considered as the
goods of the charterer, and liable to the owners lien on them folthe freight due by charter-party.)
a 2 Marsl. Rep. 339. 7 Taunt. 14.
b Christie v. Lewis, 2 Prod.4 Bingh. 510.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT
i18.

%Birch,
i racie
,.

Talmer.

and necessities of trade.

The case of Paul v,

decided by Lord Hardwicke, in 1743,
seems less the introduction of a new doctrine,
than an authoritative declaration of what had been

before, and was then, understood to be the usage
and law. It has since frequently been cited with
approbation by elementary writers, and confirmed
by judicial authority.' The only question growing
out of this undeniable position is, whether, in
the case of a general letting and hiring of a ship,
the goods of the charterer himself are liable for
the freight.
In Hutton v. Bragg,' it was determined by the
English Court of C. B., that there was no lien in
such a case. This authority has, however, been
very much weakened by subsequent decisions a
and at last solemnly overruled (Lord Ch. J. Dallas dissenting) by the sar. a Court.' But in none
of these cases, is it even intimated, that there is
-any lien upon other goods than those of the charterer for the charterfreight. The word freight
is used in two different senses. (1) To signify
the price or cpnsideration of the carriage of goods
on board a ship. (2) To signify the price or hire
of a ship for a given time, or for a given employment. The first, which is the appropriate sense
of the word, may be, by contract, express or ima 2Atk. 621.
b Abbott. SMpp . 192, 193. 2 Barnw. If AL 509. s C4=y.
N. P. Rep. 2O. 2 Bred. 4' Bingh. 410.
c 2 Marsh. Rep. 339. 7 Taunt. 14.
d 2 Barmo. 8f Ad.- 503.
o Christie v. Lewis, 2 Brod. 4' Ringa. SW.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

plied; but the form of the contract is not mate- 1823.
rial. It may be by bill of lading, or it may be by Grae
V.
agreement or charter-party; or without stipulaPalmer.
ting a price.
Now, to constitute a lien, it is necessary, (1) That
there be a debt due, on account of the goods of
the shipper, for the carriage of those goods.
(2) That the goods be in the possession of the
creditor, with the assent of the debtor, for the
purpose of The carriage from which the debt
arises. How is the lien acquired at all, or whence
is the right of lien derived, for freight due by
charter-party ? If it be asked, how it is derived
in the case of a bill of lading, stipulating freight
or not, or where there is no bill of lading, the
answer is readily furnished. It is a particular
lien for the carriage of the goods; the same which
a common carrier has by the custom of the realm,
and given by the common law, or by the law merchant, which is a part of the common law. It is
restricted to the very goods carried ; for the common law knows of no such thing as a general
lien. The utmost extension it has ever received,
is to all the goods in the same bill of lading; and,
by a modern decision in England, to goods of the
same shipper, on board the same ship, though in a
different bill of lading.a And that is upon the
ground of an understanding to that effect, when
the first goods are delivered.
The lien for treight due by charter-party, stands
a Abbott. Shipp. 245.
220.

Birley v. Gladstone, 3 Maule 4, Sehe.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I823.

precisely on the same foundation.
'can

Gracie

V.

.-""l

A general lien

only be by general usage, by a particu-

lar usage, or by contract.a
gives no lien in terms.

The charter-party

The ship and goods are

(commonly) mutually bound for the performance
of the covenants; among which is the covenant
for the payment of freight. But here the goods
are not so bound ; end if they were, it would only
extend to the goods of the charterer. But even
the goods of the charterer are not bound for the
performance of covenants; because, (1) There
is no lien for port dues, or demurrage, or any
other charges of a similar nature. (2) There is
no lien till freight actuallyearned, and, therefore,
ndt if prevented by the freighter, or by a stranger.
Yet the owner can recover on the covenant.' (3,)
There is no lien upon the goods of the charterer,
for what is termed dead freight, i. e. of the unoccupied space., And this lien has no greater extent in equity, than at law., The cases cited,
while they disaffirm the lien by contract, equally
negative the existence of a general usage, operative either at law or in equity. How, then, can it
be that there is a lien upon the goods of a third
person for the charter freight? They do not
owe it by contract. The shipper, or the consignee, is not liable for it. Equity first gave the
owner a lien for the freight reserved by bill of
a 2 Miv. 401.

b 2 Holt. S)hpp. 178.
o Id. Phiflps v. Rodie, 15 East'sRep. 547.
stone, 3 Maule k. Sedw. 205.
d Birley v. Gladstone, 2 Meriv. 401.

Birley v. Glad:-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lading, and the law has followed equity. But
neither law nor equity have ever gone farther. It
follows, that if the freight be paid beforehand, or
the bill be freight free, and this be fairly done,

there is no lien at all.
If it be competent to the master, with the assent of the charterer, to receive goods on board,
on other terms than those of the charter-party, it
'will follow that he must be the conclusive judge
of the terms. The authority of the master, in
this respect, in a foreign port, is the same in the
case of a chartered ship, as in the case of a ship
not chartered. The only difference is, that he
must have the assent of the charterer. If it were
not so, the ship must, in many cases, return home
empty; which would be neither for the interest of
the owner and charterer, nor would it promote the
general interests of commerce and navigation.
The agreement between the charterer and shippers, in this case, was fairly made, with the assent of the master, and for the manifest benefit
of the owners. Was it, then, competent for the
master to bind the owners by his assent ? Theauthority of the master of a chartered ship, in
this respect, is no further restricted by the charterparty, than to require the assent of the charterer,
and to receive the goods of the charterer himself,
only on the terms of the charter-party. In the
event, then, of the failure, in whole or in part, by
the charterer, is it not competent for him to fill
up the ship? The only limitation is, where goods
are put on board, under or in pursuance of the
charter-party; or where the conduct of the master

623
1823.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'

1825. is collusive and fraudulent, and intended to injure
vhis owner. The express ,contract, then, was, that
V.
the goods should be free of freight; and there can

Pmea~r.

be no implied, where, there is an express contract.

If there was no freight.due by contract, express
or implied, for the carriage of these goods, it follows, from the principles already stated, that
there could be no lien. It follows, also, from another principle. There can be no lien created or
continued without a rightful possession. The
possession acquired by the agreement, if held in
violation of the agreement, would thereby become
a tortious possession.
Could any action be maintained against the
consignee for the carriage of these goods ? It is
well settled, that where freight is due for the carriage of' goods, the consignee to whom they are
delivered, impliedly contracts to pay the freight,
and assumpsit may be maintained against him.0
But here no action could be maintained upon the
charter-party, for he is no party to it; nor on
the bill of lading, for it stipulates that no *freight
is to be paid; nor on the implied assumpsit, for
there is none.
The case is thus reduced to a single point, and
that is, whether the goods in question were the
property of Chambers, so that they could not be
carried in the ship on any other terms than that of
paying the charter freight. Wherever the interest
of a third person intervenes, and is connected with
the power of control, the master has a discretion,
a Abbott. Shipp. 277. 2 Holt. Shipp; 163.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

625

and may accept or reject. If he accept, he is
bound, and so is the owner, as against such third
persons, by the terms he agrees to. Suppose the

1825.
--Gradie
v

charterer's goods to be pledged in a foreign port,

PaImer.

and the pawnee (the charterer being unable to redeem) to refuse to ship under the-charter-party,
or unless he has priority;- or suppose them to be
attached, or arrested by a creditor; the master
has an election, and the owner must abide by the
decision.
But it is unnecessary to discuss this question
further; for it is plain, that the property, before
the shipment, at the time of the shipment, and
upon the arrival of the vessel, was, and continued
to be, the property of the plaintiffs below. Admit
that the surplus, in case of sale, would belong to
Chambers, and the plaintiffs were only mortgagees;
still, as mortgagees, in possession, they are owners,
and Chambers had only an equity of redemption.
Nor does a mere interest in the profit and loss,
make any difference ;a nor that they were shipped for account and risk of Chambers.b
Mr. Webster, for the plaintiffs in error, in reply,
stated, that' it was not contended that these particular goods were bound for all the freight of. the
ship; but considering them as the goods of Messrs.
Palmer & Co. the claim was for a pro rata freight
only. It is clear, by the charter-party, that the
a Haile v. Smith, 1 BOS. 4, Pul. 563.
Evans v. Maclett,
1 Lord Raym. 271.
b The St. Jose Indiano, 1 Wheat. Rep. 208. The Aurora,
4 Rob. 218. cited in Note. 1 IViat. 214. 13 Mass. Rep. 76.
VoL. VIL.
79

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Gracie

v.
Palmer.

ship-owners retained possession of the ship, so as
to have a lien for the freight; and that this lien
was also expressly reserved by the terms of that
instrument. It is equally clear, that this lien extends to all sub-shippers or strangers. There
is no difference as to the validity and strength of
this lien, whether it is on the goods of a charterer,
or on those of other shippers, although there may
be as to its extent; the goods of other shippers
being liable for the freight stipulated by them,
and the charterer's goods being liable for the
whole amount of the charter freight. Have the
ship-owners, then, waived the lien which is thus
secured to them by the general law, and by this
particular contract? If they have done so, it is by
some act subsequent to the charter-party. All
that is relied on, is what the master did at Calcutta. But supposing the goods to be Palmer's,
could the master bind the owners by this agreement ? We contend he could not, because he
was limited by the express terms of the charterparty, which provided, that freight should be paid
at Philadelphia before the delivery of the cargo.
The contract was, that whatever goods were
brought should not be delivered till freight was
paid. The shippers, and the master, were cognizant of this contract. This provision was a
direct limitation of the master's power. He was
as much bound by it as by any other part of the
charter-party. It is said, that if the master may
take goods for diminishedfreight, the same reason
authorizes him to take goods for no freight. But
it is very obvious, that a freight diminished by cir-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cumstances, may still be just and reasonable;
whilst a contract to carry goods without any freight
cannot be so under any circumstances whatever.
It necessarily supposes, that freight is paid to the
charterer in some other way, to the prejudice of
the owners' rights ; since it is absurd to suppose
an agreement to carry goods without any compensation. If the charterer might take part of a
cargo in this way, he might take the whole, and
then what becomes of the owners' rights? Of
what use, in such a case, would be the covenant to
load the ship? The shippers here assist the
charterer in an attempt to break his contract with
the owners, by which he had stipulated, that the
goods should be holden for freight. The master
cannot, where there is a charter-party, vary the
rights and duties of the owner bythe billof lading.
If he cannot vary the contract in favour of the
charterer, neither can he in favour of any body
else. If goods be brought with the assent of the
owner, though there be no contract, and not even
a knowledge of the master, the lien attaches.
Nobody was authorized under the charter-party to
receive the owners' freight before it was earned,
or elsewhere than in Philadelphia.
We contend, then, that the owners' lien is not
lost by the agreement made at Calcutta with the
assent of the master. (1) Because it is, in effect,
an agreement made between the shippers and
charterer, to violate the charter-party, to which
the master was not competent to assent. (2) Bea Hunter v. Prinsep and others, 10 East's Rep. 378.

627
1823.
Gracie

v.
Palmer.

628

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
G
Gracde

V.

Palmer.

cause the general authority of the master, as
agent of the owners, was limited by the charterparty. The shippers knew of this limitation; and
could not, consequently, derive any right under an
agreement made with him, bey6nd the scope of
his authority. (3) There is no ground here for
saying, that the master was acting independent of
the charter-party, as setting up a general ship;
nor could he do this, under the circumstances of
the case.
But the true view is, that these goods were the
goods of Chambers, the charterer, as between
him and the ship-owners. They were purchased
and shipped by him, and for his account. They
were at his risk in transitit. There is no document showing any .interest whatever in Palmer
& Co. But there was a parol agreement, that the
goods should go consigned to the Messrs. Willings, and that the latter should hold them against
the bills drawn by Chambers. The legal property
was either in Chambers, or the Willings. The
,generalresiduary property was in Chambers; a
pledge or lien only existed in favour of Palmqr.
If there was a loss, Chambers was to bear it; if
a gain, it was to be his. If the goody have
been sold for more than Palmer's debt, Chambers
is entitled to the balance. Before the plaintiffs
recover back this money, ought they not to show,
that the goods, paying freight, do not leave them
enough to pay their debt? The lien claimed by
them may exist, and yet, in commercial law, the
goods may be the property of Chambers. It is
so in the contract of insurance; else no man

OF THE UNITED STATES.

629

would ever insure goods liable to freight, or corn- 1823.
missions, or duties, or any other species of lien.
Gracia
V.
No goods are brought across the seas without
being subject to liens of various sorts; Vpme Palmer.
arising from express contracts, others from the
operation of general principles. No one could
own goods, if the ownership implied an absence
of all liens. Therefore, in the commercial world,
he is esteemed owner, for whose account, and at
whose risk, they come. Chambers had a clear
insurable interest in those goods to the .whole
amount of their value, whatever that might be.
Palmer had an insurable interest only to. the
amount of the bills of exchange. The plaintiffs'
claim rests on the operation of the bill of lading;
but, that very bill of lading says that the goods
are shipped on account and risk of Chambers.
This circumstance alone is conclusive. It would
be so in the law of prize. The consignee would
not be allowed to show an interest by a lien for
advances." But Palmer's interest was contingent;
he was to have no proprietary interest in the
goods, until failure of the acceptance of the bills
of exchange, or equivalent security; i. e. until
after the arrival of the goods Whatever the
words are, that is the legal effect. Now, it has
been repeatedly determined in this Court, that
where goods are sent to a vendee, to be received
at his option, or conditionally, they are the goods
of the vendor, until that option be expressed, or
a The Frantes, 8 Cranch's Rep. 335. 418.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
iV'm

Gracie

V.

Palmer.
March

l3th.

that condition happen.a

So, if goods be shipped,

to be sold on joint account of the shipper and

consignee, or the latter alone, at his option, the
property is not vested until the election is made. b

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of

che Court. This is a writ of error from the Circuit
Court -of Pennsylvania, on a judgment, in which
the defendants in this Court were plaintiffs in the
inferior Court. The suit instituted in that Court,
was for the recovery of a sum of money paid under
the following circumstances:
The Gracies, being owners of the ship America, chartered her to one Chambers, on a voyage
to India. Chambers accompanied the vessel, and,
at Calcutta, put her up as a general ship, with
notice, however, of his being charterer, not owner.
Finding it difficult *there to obtain freight, he entered into an arrangement with Palmer, in pursuance of which, the latter supplied him with a
quantity of goods, to the value of 80100 pounds,

upon the following stipulations: "That Chambers
should draw bills, in favour of Palmer & Co., upon
his correspondent in Philadelphia, and that the
goods should be consigned to the Willings, correspondents of Palmer, in the same place; to
whom they should be delivered, freight free, in
pledge for the due payment. of Chambers' bills."
When the goods were laden on board the Amea The Venus, (Magee's claim,) 8 Craneh, 253. 275. The
Merrimack, (claim of Kinmel & Alberts,) Id. 328.
b The Frances, (Dunham's claim,) 8 Cranch, 354. S. C.
9 Cranch, 183.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rica, the ship-master signed bills of lading, stating 1823.
them to be shipped on account and risk of Cham- Gmdeo
v.
bers, to be delivered to the Messrs. Willings of
limer.
Philadelphia. And in that part of the bill of
lading in which the freight is usually specified,
are inserted these words : "Freight for the said
goods having been settled here." Indorsed on
the bill of lading are the mLrks and numbers of
the several packages, and on its face are written
Marks and numbers on the back
these words: "M
of this bill, countersigned. Hugh Chambers."
This is the endorsement noticed in the stated case.
A charter-party, with all the usual covenants and
formalities, was entered into by the parties, in
which the owner undertakes to furnish and navigate the ship, and the charterer to pay the sum of
32,000 dollars for the use of her, with certain specific reservations not material to the decision of
any of the questions raised in argument. The
clause which stipulates for the payment of the
compensation is in these words: " The said
charterer covenants," &c. " that he will pay to
the owners, on the return of the said ship to
Philadelphia, and before the discharge of her
cargo there, in approved notes," &c. the sum
stipulated for.
The ca~e stated affirms, that the whole transaction in Calcutta was effected in good faith; that it
was done with the knowledge and assent of the
ship-master, and was, under all circumstances,
"the best he could do for the interest of the owners
of the ship."
The bill of lading was enclosed to the Wil-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lings, with information of the arrangement between Palmer and Chambers; and the drawees
V. of Chambers' bill, having refused to accept them,
Palmer. the Willings demanded the delivery of the goods,
1823.

' Gradie
",.

freight free. The Gracies refused to deliver the
goods, insisting on their right to the freight usually
paid on such goods from India, whether they were
the property of Palmer, or of Chambers. And
in order to get possession of the goods, the freight
was accordingly advanced by the Willings, and
this action brought to recover it back.
The cause was decided in the Court below upon
a case stated, in nature of a special verdict, which
finds alternatively for the one or the other party,
according to the law of the case. The judgment
of the Circuit Court was in favour of the defendants.
Much of the argument be'ow appears to have
turned upon the general rights and liabilities of
owner and charterer under the contract of affreightment; but the learned and elaborate argument of
the presiding Judge in the Court below, has relieved this Court from much discussion on that
part of the subject. The doctrine, as laid down
there, and as stated by the counsel here, exhibits
no material shades of distinction. It is, in fact,
the common law doctrine of bailment, and common carriers, applied to transportation on the
ocean.
The carrier may hire his vehicle, or his team, or
his servant, for the purposes of transportation; or
he may undertake to employ them himself in the
act of transporting the goods of another. It is

633

OF THE UNITED STATES,

in the latter case only, that he assumes the liabilities, and acquires the rights of a common carrier.
So, the ship owner, who let his ship to hire to another, whether manned and equipped or not, enters

into a contract totally distinct from that of him
who engages to employ her himself in the transportation of the goods of another. In the former case, he parts with the possession to another,
and that other becomes the carrier; in the latter,
he retains the possession of the ship, although
the hold may be the property of the charterer;
and being subject to the liabilities, he retains the
rights incident to the character of a common carrier.
On examining the cases in which this subject
has engaged the attention of Courts of justice, it
will be found, that the great difficulty generally
has been, to decide in which of these two relations the ship-owner had placed himself, under
the particular stipulations of the charter-party;
and how far he has put it in the power of the char-

terer to defeat his acknowledged right to a lien for
the freight. The present case suggests the additional question, how far it lies in the power of the
ship-master to defeat this lien, or otherwise sanction a departure from the letter of the charterparty.
The cause has been argued as one vitally important to the commercial world; and very strong
views have been presented of the injuries that
might be sustained by foreign shippers on the one
hand, and by ship-owners on the other, as the
one or the other alternative of the stated case
VOL.

VIIL

80

1823.
V.
a

"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

shall obtain the sanction of this Court. But it is
obvious that most, if not all of these suggestions,
V. have been the offspring of a zealous, rather than
Paler.a calm survey of possible consequences.
1823.

The contract of affreightment, like every other
contract, is the creature of the will of the contracting parties. It may be varied to infinity, and
easily adapted to the exigencies of either party,
or of any trade. It is only where the express
contract is silent, that the implied contract can
arise. It is possible, that a captain and a charterer might connive at a fraud, and pass a chartered vessel upon foreigners as an unchartered
vessel; but it is not very probable, and would be
extremely difficult. Yet it is not easy to conceive
any other case in which a foreign affreighter can
be exposed to imposition, while it is always in his
power to inspect the charter-party, and determine,
from its stipulations, how far he may venture to
ship his goods upon a special contract. The
general liability of goods for freight, is known to
all mercantile men; and a stipulation in a charterparty, "that no goods shall be landed from the
vessel until the freight is paid," will always alarm
the fears of any prudent shipper.
But this case does not imperiously call for a
decision upon the general question. The goods
are expressly laden on board as the property of
Chambers, " on his account and risk." And the
question is not, how far his contract may exempt
the goods of another from freight, but how far he
may encumber his own goods with a lien, which

OF THE UNITED STATES.

shall ride over or supersede their general liability
for the freight.
We turn, in the first place, to the express contract of the parties, to afford a solution of the
question. But there we find that the charterer
cannot, without an express violation of his contract, deliver to the consignee a single article, not
only until its own peculiar freight be paid, but
until the payment of the sum of 32,000 dollars,
the whole of the freight reserved to the owner.
On what principles rests the general lien 9 f
goods for freight? The master is the agent of the
ship-owner, to receive and transport; the goods
are improved in value, by the cost and cares of
transportation. As the bailee of the shipper,
the goods are in the custody and possession of the
master and ship-owner, and the law will not suffer
that possession to be violated, until the labourer
has received his hire. But this is literally the
effect of that provision in the charter-party, which
deprives the charterer of the right of landing the
cargo until the stipulated hire be paid; or rather,
it would seem to go beyond it, and impose a liability beyond what the common law exacts. It
may, therefore, be fairly construed into a stipulation, that the charterer should, under no circumstances, dispense with the legal lien of the shipowner.
The question, then, is, who has trusted this charterer ? for he that trusts must pay.
That the ship-owner would not confide in the
charterer to land his goods without buying off his
right to detain, is expressly proved by the contract.

635
1823.
Grade

v.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,3.
Gracie

That contract was accessible to the foreign shipand ought to have been looked into to deter-

Sper,

V.
mine the extent of the power vested in the charPaber. terer. Whether he neglected this precaution,.or

contracted with the charterer knowing of this restriction on his power to contract, he is the party
that trusts. The charterer has contracted with
the shipper to do an act, which he could not perform without violating his own contract to the
ship-owner, and must, therefore, be considered as
having entered into a contract, subordinate in its
nature to that previously existing between the
owner and charterer. And as the undertaking of
the charterer to Palmer, could only be performed
upon first complying with his undertakings to the
owner, he must be considered as having rested on
the personal responsibility of the charterer for the
removal of that obstacle.
That, in ordinary -cases of the hypothecation of
goods, the lien for freight would take precedence,
cannot be questioned; and in a late adjudication,
on a case strikingly similar to the present, and in
the Courts of a nation, which thoroughly understands the laws and interests of commerce, (Faith
v. The East India Company, 4 Barnw. 4- Ald.

630.) it has been held, that goods so circumstanced, were bound to the whole extent of the
liability of the charterer to the ship-owner for
freight. In the present instance, a pro rata
freight only is demanded. In the same case, it
was further decided, that the ship-owner retained
his lien for freight, on goods shipped by. third

OF THE UNITED STATES.

persons, even after the drawing of freight-bills,
in favour of another, by previous agreement.
But it is contended, that the case where goods
are shipped freight free, or the freight has been
actually paid, remains undecided; that the lien
for freight attaches only where freight was actually
due, but in neither of those cases, (that of payment or redemption,)-could it be predicated of
freight that it was due.
Had the reasoning of the Judges, in the case of
Faith against The East India Company, been
followed out to its unavoidable consequences, it
would seem, that no doubt should have been expressed by them upon such a case. For, if the
ground of that decision was, that the ship-owner
was not bound to deliver the goods until his
freight was paid, it would seem to be immaterial
whether it had been previously paid to the charterer, or to any other not authorized to receive it
on account of the owner. But whatever might
be the opinion of this Court upon a cause so circumstanced, it is obvious, that this is not a case of
that nature.
These goods were not shipped freight free, nor
was the freight actually paid upon them. The
words upon the bill of lading are, " freight settled
here." And their ambiguity being explained by
other parts of the case stated, there is made out a
case, in which the freight was no farther settled
than by the arrangement made with Palmer, for
the purpose of postponing the freight to the defendant's lien for advances of money, or the payment of bills. The compensation for carriage,

637
182,.
Grade

V.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

although disguised under the form of possible profits upon the sales of the goods shipped, still ex(Gracie
V. isted; for freight is one of the charges which the
Palmer. consumer pays. It is, then, only an evasion of the
rights of the owner, and presents a facility to evasion which ought not to be encouraged. If it be
said, that the payment of freight was, nevertheless, contingent and uncertain, the reply still is,
that this is a subject for consideration between the
charterer and the shipper, and could not be sanctioned as the means of evading the express provision in the charter-party against the right of
delivery before the payment of freight. Although
no freight had been due to the charterer, there
was unquestionably a large sum. due the owner;
and by the terms of his agreement, literally construed, he was not bound to open the hatches
untilthe whole sum was paid. This, however, is
more than is contended for upon the plaintiffs'
construction of the contract; and more, unquestionably, than would have been sustained as
against other shippers; it is not, in this instance,
insisted upon as against the charterer himself.
But, in fact, this memorandum of the captain on the
subject of freight, is altogether an immaterial circumstance in a bill of lading made to the charterer
himself. With whom was he at liberty to settle
the freight upon his own shipments, to the prejudice of the ship-owner ?
And this leads to the consideration of the last
point made in argument for the defendants; to wit,
that the acts of the captain bound the ship-owner
to a compliance with the stipulations made to the
!823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

639

defendants, Palmer & Co., to the prejudice of 1823.
the lien insisted on by the present plaintiffs. That
is, that either the captain alone, or the captain and
v.
charterer together, could devest the owner, both p
of his implied and express right to detain these
goods.
Whence is such a power to be deduced? Not
from the charterer's rights in the ship, nor from
the master's power over the ship ; but it is supposed to result from the necessity of the case, the
nature of the interest acquired by the charterer,
and the general powers of a ship-master, as incident to the duties which he is called upon to perform.
But it is perfectly clear, that it is not in the
power of the master to release the charterer from
his contract to the owner. It is only when the
contract is at an end by misfortune, or by the acts
of the charterer, that he is called to the exercise
of that latitude of power over the ship, which
may lead to a resumption of the right to lade her
for the benefit of all concerned. In the mean
time, lie has no power to modify the contract entered into with his owner; since all the power
delegated to him, while the charter-party continues to operate, is to perform the undertakings
of his employer in the fulfilment of the contract.
When abandoned by his charterer, he is of necessity -cast upon himself to do the best he can
for all concerned; and whether that be to return
empty, or to take in such freight as may offer, he
is still acting under his original relations with his
owner; for, if not actually carrying into effect the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

stipulations of the charter-party, his general duty
is
to do nothing that can release the charterer from
0maois
V. his liability under it. This is altogether inconPalm r sistent with the idea of his being authorized xo
modify or dispense with the terms of the-charter'party.
So far as the interests of the charterer may be
affected by the want of power to modify contracts
for freight, in any manner that exigencies may requ're, it has been before observed, that this should
have been attended to in making his contract with
the owner. And as it is very certain, that a release
from the ordinary security of the carrier, must
have been purchased by an enhanced price orVersonal security; so, it would be highly unjust to
subject the owners to a loss of their ordinary security, without compensation in price, or extraordinary security as the substitute. As to the interests of ship-owners themselves, it is enough,
for the present case, to say, "let them judge for
themselves:"
But there is very great reason to think, that the
acts of the master, in this case, have had views and
effects attributed to them, directly the reverse of
his intention and understanding in performing
those acts. It is observed by one of the Judges,
in the decision before alluded to, " that had the
captain done his duty, he never would have taken
goods on board on which the owner would have
no lien." It is right that a construction should be
given to the conduct of the master, which may
comport both with a knowledge, and a due observance of his duty. And in this view of the case,

OF ThE UNITED STATES.

notwithstanding his privity to the arrangement
between the charterer and shipper, as he was himself called upon to dono act that could deprive his
owner of his lien, he might well have considered
the stipulation between the charterer and shipper
as, a matter inter alios ; in pursuance of which,
his employer could sustain no loss, however the
charterer might render himself liable to the shipper for consequences. Such was certainly not
the understanding of the shipper, as to the effect
of his contract with the charterer, but he might
have been better informed by studying the charterparty; and, non constat, if the captain hiad been
required to sign a bill of lading to the shipper,
with an explicit stipulation, that the goods should
be free from liability to his owner, that he would
have been betrayed into such a breach of duty, or
assumption of power. He might well have supposed, that in signing this bill of lading to Chambers, and not to Palmer, he was doing no act that
could impair the rights and interests of his employer.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that there is error
in the judgment of the Circuit Court ; that it must
be reversed, and a mandate issue to enter judgment for the defendants below, agreeably to the
case stated.
Judgment reversed.

VOL. VIIL

1823.
Gracie

v.
Palm

