CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Buel
V.
Vax Nes,

Court of the United States for the District of Maand was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the

Sryland,

said Circuit Court erred in the first and second
instructions given to the jury, as prayed for by the
defendants' counsel, and in the voluntary opinion
of said Circuit Court, so far as the said opinion
was intended to instruct the jury, that they oqIld

not find any less sum than two thousanddollars
valued on the freight.

It is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of Maryland, in this case,

be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled:
and it is further ORDERED, that said cause be re-

manded to said Circuit Court, with instructions to
issue a venirefacias de novo.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

PRACTICE.]

BUEL V. VAN NESS.
'The appellate jurisdiction of this Court, under the 25th sec. of the
Judiciary .Act of 1789, c. 20., may be exercised by a writ of error
issued by the clerk of a Circuit Court, under the seal of that
Court, in the form prescribed by the Act of the 8th of May, 1792,
c. 137. s. 9.; and the writ itself need not state that it is diected to
aghet
afinal judgment of the State Court, or that the Court is the
Court of law or equity of the State.
fhe appellate jurisdiction of this Court, in cases brought ftom the
State Courts, arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of
the union, is not limited by the value of the matter in dispute.

OF THE UNIrrED STATES.

si3

Its jurisdiction in such cases extends to a case where both parties jg
.
claim a right or title under the same act of Congress, and the decision is against the right or tide claimed by either party.
Bael
Under the'91st section of the Duty Act of 1799, c. 128. the share of
V.
a forfeiture to which the Collector, &c. of the District is entitled, is Van Ne's,
to be paid to the person who was tbe Collector, c. in office at the
time the seizure was made, and not to his successor in office at the
time of condemnation and the receipi of the moriey.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Vermont,
for tlfie county of Chittenden, being the highest
Court of law in that State.
The plaintiff in error, Buel, brought an action
of assumpsit against .the defendant in error, Van
Ness, in the State Court. The declaration -was
for money had and received, and ifioney lent and
advanced; to which defendant pleaded the general issue, and upon the trial the jury found the
following special verdict:
That for the space of two years preceding
the fifteenth day of February, in the year 1813,
the said Samuel Buel was collector of the customs for the District of Vermont, having been
theretofore duly appointed and commissioned
by the President of the United States to that
office, and sworn according to law, and taken
upon himself the discharge of the duties of
the office -aforesaid; that during the time the said
Duel was collector of the customs aforesaid, a
certain quantity of fur and wine was seized in the
said District, by one Joshua Peckham, an inspector of the customs within the said District, acting
under the authority of the said Buel, as collector
as aforesaid, hs forfeited to the United States, for
having been imported contrary to law; that the
Vol. VIII.

40

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. said fur and wine, during the time the said Bue
was collector as aforesaid, were duly libelled in
V. ther District Court of the United States for the
Van Ness. District .of Vermont; that at the term of said
Court, in which the said fur and wine were libelled, as aforesaid, one Zalmon Atwood preferred
his claim to the said ftr and wine, in due form, in
the said Court, and then and there executed to
the said United States, a bond in the sum of 1202
dollars and 64 cents, being the value of the said
fur and wine, as appraised according to law, and
conditioned for the payment of the said sum to
the United States, in case the said fur and wine
should be condemned; that afterwards, and while
the said Buel was collector as aforesaid, to wit,
at the term of the said Court holden at Rutland,
within and for said District, on the tenth day of
October, in the year 1812, such proceedings were
had on said libel, that the said fur and wine were
regularly condemned as forfeited to the United
States; that on the said fifteenth day of February,
in the year 1813, the said Samuel Buel was, by
the President of the United States, removed from
the said office of collector for the District of Vermont; that on the same day the said Cornelius P.
Van Ness was duly appointed to the said office,
and commissioned and sworn accordingly, and still
continues to hold said office; that on the tenth
day of May, in the year 1813, the said sum of
1202 dollars and 64 cents -was paid into. Court,
in discharge of the said bond, into the hands of
Jesse Gore, Es' ire, clerk of the said Court;
that on -the same day, the said sum of money was,

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

315

by the said Jesse Gore, paid into the hands of the 18!3.
said Cornelius P. Van Ness, Esquire, collector
as
,
Buel
aforesaid, to be by him distributed according to
V.
the laws of the United States; that the said Cor- Van Ne".
nelius P. Van Ness, on the first day of July, in
the year last aforesaid, paid into the Treasury of
the United States one moiety of the said sum of
1202 dollars and 64 cents, and that the said Cornelius P. Van Ness retains the remainder of the
said sum as belonging to him as collector as
aforesaid, and to the inspector who seized the
said goods, and to the person who first informed
of the said offence, notwithstanding the said Buel,
before the commencement of the said action, to
wit, on the fifth day of June, in the year 1813, at
Burlington aforesaid, did demand the same of the
said Van Ness. And if upon the whole matter
aforesaid, by the jurors aforesaid, in form aforesaid found, it shall seem to the Court here that
the said Cornelius P. Van Ness is liable in law for
the non-performance of the promises in said declaration contained, in manner and form as the
said Samuel Buel complains against him, then
the said jurors further upon their oath say, that the
said Cornelius did assume and promise, in manner
and form as the said plaintiff, in his said declaration hath alleged, and they assess the damages of
him, the said Samuel, by the occasion of the nonperformance of the said promises and undertaldagsj at the sum of 672 dollars and 47 cents,
and find for him to recover the said sum, with his
rcosts; but if upon the whole matters aforesaid,
by the jurors aforesaid. in form aforesaid found.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

it shall seem to the Court here, that the said CorP. Van Ness is not liable in law, in manner
Ruel
V.
and form as the said Samuel complains against
Van ess. him, then the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath say,
that the said Cornelius P. Van Ness did not assume and promise, in manner and form as the
said Samuel hath alleged against him, and find
for him to recover his costs.
. Upon which, judgment was rendered by the
State Court for the defendant; and the cause was
brought by writ of error to this Court. The writ
of error was issued by the clerk of the Circuit
Court of Vermont, under the seal of that Court,
and in the usual form of writs of error to the
judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United
States.
Snelius

Reb. i9h.

~Mr. Sergeant, for the plaintiff, argued, that the

judgment of the State Court was erroneous upon
the settled decisions of this Court. The collector, under whose authority the seizure was made,
was clearly entitled to the moiety of the forfeiture
given by the Collection Act of 1799, e. 122. s.
89. 91. and not the collector who was in office at
the time condemnation was pronounced, and the
money actually receiveda
TheAttorneyGeneral,contra, argued, (L.) That
the writ of error, in this case, was not, upon its
face, to a final judgment of the highest Court of
law of the State. This Court is a Court of a
a

3ones v. Shore, 1 Whqeat. Rep. 462.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

317

limited and special jurisdiction, both by the con- 1823.
stitution, and by the act of Congress'giving it
Buel
V.
in
cerCourts
the
State
over
jurisdiction
appellate
Nes.
Van
it
before
appear
who
tain cases. 411 persons
must bring themselves within the jurisdiction,
either by the nature of the controversy, or the
character of the parties.a The writ of error is
the instrument by which the record is to be brought
into this Court, and it must, therefore, exhibit, on
its face, the appellate jurisdiction. (2.) The writ
does not appear to have emanated from the office
of the clerk of -this Court, nor from any office authorized to issue it. The writ was issued by the
clerk of the Circuit Court of Vermont. The act
of May, 1792, c. 137. s. 9. directs the clerk of this
Court to send to the clerks of the Circuit Courts,
the form of a writ of error, to be issued by the
latter under the seal of the Circuit Court. But
this provision cannot apply to writs of error to
judgments of the State Courts. (3.) It is not
stated in the writ of error, nor does it appear,
that the Supreme Court of the State of Vermont
is the highest Court of law or equity in the State,
in which a decision could be had. Non constat,
but there may be another still higher appellate
tribunal, where the cause might have been carried.
(4.) The amount of the judgment is not sufficient
to support a writ of error to this Court. The
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
provides, that in all cases where this Court has apa Durousseau v. The United States, 6 Cranchl's Rep. 307'.

Turner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dall.Rep. 8.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

pellate jurisdiction from the judgments or decrees
of the State Courts, they may be re-examined on
a writ of error " in the.same manner, and under
Van Nes". the same regulations, and the writ shall have the

'

1823.
v
Buel
V.

same effect, as if the judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a Circuit Court." One of those regulations is, that the
matter in dispute must be of the value of 2000
dollars. And the policy of the law, or the supposed intention of the law makers, cannot give
jurisdiction by implication.
(5.) But if these
formal objections should be overruled, he insisted,
that the decision of the 8tate Court was not
againsta right claimed under a statute of the United States, within the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, c. 20. since both parties claimed the
.'sum of money in controversy under the same act
of Congress. If the State Court has committed
any error, it is merely in misconstruing an act of
Congress, and not in deciding against any right,
title, privilege, or exemption claimed by the plaintiff under it. The decision is in favour of a
party so claiming, and where that is the c'ase, this
Court has no jurisdiction.a (6.) The plaintiff was
not entitled to judgment on the special verdict,
because the inspector, who appears by it to have
acted as seizing officer, must have been entitled
by law to a proportion of the forfeiture, and,
therefore, the plaintiff could not have been entitled to the whole amount found by the jury.
a Gordon v. Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch'sRep. 268.
Zane, 4 Cranch'sRep. 382.

Matthews v.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

Mr. Sergeant, in reply, insisted, that it sufli- 1823.
ciently appeared upon the record that the judgBuel
V.
ment was final. The word judgment, implies
New.
Van
the
to
appears
that it was final, unless something
contrary. The Supreme Court of Vermont is, in
point of fact, the highest Court of law or equity of
that State. This Court cannot compel a State
Court to represent itself as the highest Court. It
appears so to be by the State constitution and laws.
They are not foreign laws, and this Court is bound
to take notice of them. They are expressly made
rules of decision in the national Courts, by the
Judiciary Act. As to the amount in controversy,
it is immaterial. The object of the provision
was to produce perfect uniformity in the decisions
upon the laws, treaties, and constitution of the
Union. It stands upon different grounds from that
where the character of the parties alone gives jurigdiction. There the sole object was to secure
'impartial tribunals, in controversies between citizefs of different States, and between aliens and
citizetis. The case is within the very letter of the
act. It does not appear how the defendant claimed. It appears that the plaintiff claimed under a
statute of Congress. The decision was against
his claim, and that is sufficient. To determine
otherwise, would be to defeat the whole object of
the provision, which was intended to secure uniformity in the construction of the statutes of Congress throughout the Union.
Mr. Justice JOHNsON delivered the opinion of Feb. 18!A.
the Court. This suit was instituted by the plaintiff

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Buel
e

V.
Van Ness.

in error, late collector of the District of Vermont,
against the collector, his successor in office. The
sum sued for, is one half the proceeds of a

seizure, made while Buel was in -office, but not

recovered until after he was superseded by the
defendant.
The right of Buel to the sum sued for, is not
now to be questioned.. It has already obtained
the sanction of this Court. (Jones v. Shore,
I Wheat. Rep. 462.) But before the question
was agitated here, a decision had already taken
place in the State Court, in favour of Van Ness,
and the cause being now broughlt up under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, a number of
exceptions have been"taken to the plaihtiff's right
of recovery, which have no bearing whatever upon
the right of action.
The first of the points made by the defendant's
counsel is, "that the writ of error does not, upon
"its face, purport to be issued upon a final judgment of the highest Court in the State."
We see no reason why it should be so expressed.
The writ of error is the. act of the Court; its object is to cite the parties to this Court, and 'to
bring up the record.' How else is this Court to
ascertain whether the judgment be final? Nor
can there be any danger of its being hastily or
.erroneously used, since it must be allowed either
-by the presiding Judge of the State Court, or a
Audge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
2. "That the writ does not appear to have ema:
nated from the office of the Supreme Court, nor
trom any office authorized to issue it."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This is answered by reference to the seal on the 182.
face of the writ, which appears to be that of the
Circuit Court of Vermont, and the signature of
v.
the clerk.

A form of a writ of error has been der Van ?=

signed by the Judges of this Court, and transmitted to the clerks of the respective Circuits, by the
clerk of this Court, according to law. And this
writ has duly issued from the Circuit Court, after
being allowed by the Circuit Judge. What more
does the law require? See s. 8. Act of May 8th,
1792.)
3dly. It is objected, "That it is not stated, nor
does it appear, that the Supreme Court of ths,State of Vermont is the highest Court in the State
in which a decision' in the suit could be had, and
therefore the jurisdiction of this Court is not
shown."
Nor was-it necessary, at this stage of the proceedings, that it should have been shown. It has
been before observed, that this writ is the act Qf
the Court, and if it has issued improvidently, the
question is open on a motion to quash it. No one
is precluded by the emanation of the writ; and
the right of the party who demands it, ought not
to be finally passed upon by a Judge at his chambers; It is a writ of common right in the cases to
which the jurisdiction of an appellate Court extends, and the abuse of it is sufficiently guarded
against, -as suggested to the first exception.
4thly. It is contended, " That the amount of
the judgment is not sufficient to ground an appeal
or writ of error to this Court."
This is a new question. Thirty-four years has
Voy,, VI1.

41

CASLS N THE SUPREME COURT

this Court been adjudicating under the 25th section
of the act of 1789, and familiarly known to have
V.n
passed in judgment upon cases of very small
Van Ness. amount, without having before had its attention
1823.

\uv.

called to the construction of the 25th section now
contended for. Nevertheless, if the received construction has been erroneously adopted, without
examination, it is not too late to correct it now.
But we think that it is not necessary to sustain
our practice upon contemporaneous and long protracted exposition; that as well the words of the
two sections unddr which we exercise appellate
jurisdiction, as the reasons and policy on which
those clauses were enacted, will sustain the received distinction between the cases to which those
sections extend.
The argument on this part of the case is, that
the appellate jurisdiction conferred by the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, is restricted
within the same limits, as to amount, with that conferred by the 22d section, under the influence of
those words which enact, as to the cases comprised
within the 25th section, "that they may be reexamined, and reversed, or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon a writ
of error, the citation being signed, &c. in the same
manner, and under the same regulations, and the
writ shall have the same effect as if the judgment
or decree complained of had been rendered in a
Circuit Court," &c.
The fallacy of the argument consists in attaching too enlarged an application to the meaning of
the word "regulation," as here used. It is ob-

OF THE UNITE.D STAVE&

vious from the context, as well as from its ordinary
meaning and use, that its proper bearing is altogether confined to the writ of error, citation, &c.
to be issued in a case which 18 been befare fidly
defined, and not that it should itself enter into the
descriptive circumstances by which those cases
are to be identified, to which the appellate jurisdiction of the Court is to be extended. By reference to the 22d section, it will be seen, that the
sum to which the appellate power is confined in
that section, is in every case the specific difference
by which it is distinguished from every other case;
and that the regulations under which the jurisdiction, in those cases, is to be exercised, constitute
the subject of the remaining part of that section,
and the whole of the 23d, as it does of various
other sections scattered through the laws passed
upon the same subject.
And this construction is fully supported by. reference to the political object of the two sections,
"ashas been forcibly insisted upon by the defendant's counsel. Questions of mere nwum and
tuuM, are ths to which the 22d section relatesI
but those intended, to be provided for by the 25th
section, are noticed only for their national importance, and. are deemed proper for an appellate
tribunal, from the principles, not the sums, that they
involve. Practically, we know, that experience
has vindicated the foresight of the Legislature in
making this distinction.
The 5th point submitted by the defendant's
counsel is, "that the decision of the State Court
was not against a right claimed under a statute of

32S
182&
Bud
V=

v.
"es"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the United States, within the provisions of the
25th section of the Judiciary Act; since both
B.
parties' claimed the money in contest under
the
.fan Ness. same act of Congress."
This point we consider as already decided in
the case of Matthews v. Zane; (4 Cranch'sRep.
.382.) nor do we feel any difficulty in again decid ing,' that the principle which it asserts cannot
be sustained. The simplest mode of meeting the
proposition,-is to negative it in its own terms. The
decision of the State Court was " against a right
claimed under a statute of the United States."
Buel's claim was altogether founded upon a statute 'of the United States. Nor vias he a volunteer in the State Court; for, being a citizen of the
same State with' the defendant, he could not, under
the Judiciary Act of the United States, come, in
the first instance, into the Courts of the United
States. Had it been otherwise, however, it
would seem to be a question of expediency with
the Legislature, rather than one of construction for a Court. The literal meaning of the
terms of the 25th section embraces the plaintiff's
case ; as it would also have embraced that of the
defendant, had the State Court decided against
his claim under the same act. If the United
States have jurisdiction over all causes arising
under their own laws, Congress must possess the
power of determining to what extent that jurisdiction shall be vested in this Court.
. The 6th and last point made for the defendant,
is, that the plaintiff was not entitled to judgment
on the verdict according to the facts found by the
1823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

325

jury. And under this head it is contended, "that 1823;
the inspector, acting as seizing officer, or informer,
Budl
who appears in the special verdict, must have been
v.
N&s.
Van
forfeiture,
entitled by law to a proportion of this
and, therefore, the plaintiff could not have been
entitled to the whole amount awarded him by the
jury in the alternative finding."
It is not now necessary, nor are we in possession
of the facts necessary to determine the relative
rights of the collector, and the supposed informer.
If Peckham was entitled in that character to share
with this plaintiff, he is not precluded by this decision. He was no party to the action. And if
his rights were intended to be set up against this
plaintiff, they should have been distinctly found
by the jury. Under the finding, as it actually
exists, there is no right definitively ascertained
but those of the two parties to the suit. The 6th
section of the Collection Law requires no officer
to be appointed for the District of Vermont but a
collector. The presumption, therefore, is, that
he is the only individual entitled to forfeitures in
that District, until the contrary be shown. The
91st section, which vests the interest on which this
suit is sustained, gives the whole to any one of
the three distributees of the moiety, when there
is but one officer for the District in which the
seizure is made.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the judgment be reversed, and a judgment entered for
the plaintiff upon the other alternative of the verdict.

