REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1823.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW,]

GREEN and Others v. BIDDLE.
The act of the State of Kentucky, of the 27th of February, 1797,
concerning occupying claimants of land, whilst it was in force, was
repugnant-to the constitution of the United States, but it was repealed
by a subsequent act of the 31st of January, 1810 to amend the said
act; and the last mentioned act is also repugnant to the constitution
of the United States, as being in violation of the compact between
the States of Virginia and Kentucky, contained in the act of the legislature of Virginia, of the 18th of December, 1789, and incorporated into the constitution of Kentucky.
By the common law, the statute law of Virginia, the principles of equity, and the civil law, the claimant of lands who succeeds in his suit, is
entitled to an account of mesne profits, received by the occupant from
some period prior to the judgment of eviction, or decree.
At common law, whoever takes and holds possession of land, to which
another has a better title, whether he be a boncfuiei or a malm idci
possessor, is liable to the true owner for all the rents and profits which
he has received: but the disseisor, if he be a on .f=dei occupant, may
recoup the value of the meliorations made by him against the claim
of damages.
VOL. VIII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green
V.
Biddle.

Equity allows an account of rents and profits in all cases, from the

time of the title accrued, (provided it does not exceed six years,) unless under special circumstances, as where the defendant had no notice of the plaintiff's tide, nor had the deeds in which the plaintiff's
title appeared in his custody, or where there has been laoches in the

plaintiff in not asserting his title, or where his title appeared by deeds
in a stranger's custody; in all which, and other similar cases, the account is confined to the time of filing the bill.
By the civil law, the exemption of the occupant from an account for
rents and profits is strictly confined to the case of a bq.mfidei possessor, who not only supposes himself to be the true owner of the land,
but who is ignorant that his title is contested by some other person
claiming a better right. And such a possessor is entitled only to the
fruits or profits which were produced by his own industry, and not
even to those, unless they were consumed.
Distinctions between these rules of the civil and common law, and of
the Court of Chancery, and the provisions of the acts of Kentucky,
concerning occupying claimants of land.
The invalidity of a State law, as impairing the obligation of contracts,
does not depend upon the extent of the change which the law effects
in the 6ontract.
Any deviation from its terms, by postponing or accelerating the period
of its performance, imposing conditions not expressed in the contract,
or dispensing with the performance of those which are expressed,
however minute or apparently immaterial in their effect upon the
contract, impairs its obligation.
The compact of 1789, between Virginia and Kentucky, was valid under
that provi-ion of the constitution, which declares, that "no State
shall, without the consent of Congress, enter into any agreement or
compact with another State, or with a foreign power :'--no particular mode, in which that consent must be given, having been prescribed by the constitution; and Congress having consented to the
admission of Kentucky into the Union, as a sovereign State, upon the
conditions mentioned in the compact.
The compact is not invalid upon the ground of its surrendering rights
of sovereignty, which are unalienable.
This Court has authority to declare a State law unconstitutional,
upon the ground of its impairing the obligation of a compact between
different States of the Union.
The prohibition of the constitution embraces all contracts, executed or
executory, between private individuals, or a State and individuals, or
corporations, or between the States themselves.

THIS

was a writ of right, brought in the Circuit

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court of Kentucky, by the demandants, Green and
others, who were the heirs of John Green, deceased, against the tenant, Richard Biddle, to
recover certain lands in the State of Kentucky, in
his po;session. The cause was brought before
-this Court upon a division of opinion of-the judges
of the Court below, on the following questions :
. Whether the acts of the legislature of the
State of Kentucky, of the 27th of February, 1797,
and of the 31st ofJanuiary, 1812, concerning occupyi ng claimants of land, are constitutional or not; the
demandants and the tenant both claiming title to
the land in controversy under patents from the
State of Virginia, prior to the erection of the district of Kentucky into a State ?
2. Whether the question of improvements
ought to be settled under the above act of 1797,
the suit having been brought before the passage
of 1he act of 1812, although judgment for the demandant was not rendered, until after the passage
of the last mentioned act ?
The grouind, upon which the unconstitutionality
of the above acts was asserted, was, that they impaired the obligation of the compact between the
States of Virginia and Kentucky, contained in an
act of the legislature of the former State, passed
the 18th of December, 1789, which declares, "that
all private rights, and interests of lands within the
said District" (of Kentucky) " derived from the
laws of Virginia prior to such separation, shall
remain valid and secure under the laws of the proposed State, and shall be determined by the laws
now existing in this State." This compact was

1823..
Green

V.
.

CASES IN THE 6UPIEME COURT

1823.
Green

V..
Biddle.

ratified by the convention which framed the constitution of Kentucky, and incorporated into that
constitution as one of its fundamental articles.

The most material provisions in the act of 1797,
which were supposed to impair the obligation of
the compact of 1789, and therefore void, are the
following:
1. It provides that the occupant of land, from
which he is evicted by better title, shall, in all
cases, be excused from the payment of rents and
profits accrued prior to actual notice of the adverse
title, provided his possession in its inception was
peaceable, and he shows a plain and connected
title, in law or equity, deduced from some record.
2. That the successful claimant is liable to a
judgment against him for all valuable and lasting
improvements made on the land prior to actual
notice of the adverse title, after deducting from
the amount the damages which the land has sustained by waste or deterioration of the soil by
cultivation.
3. As to improvements made, and rents and
profits accrued, after notice of the adverse title,
the amount of the one shall be deducted from
that of the other, and the balance added to, or
subtracted from, the estimated value of the improvements made before such notice, as the nature
of the case may require. But it is provided, by
a subsequent clause, that in no case shall the successful claimant be obliged to pay for improvements made after notice, more than what is equal
to the rents and profits.
4. If the improvements exceed the value of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

land in its unimproved state, the claimant shall be 1823.
allowed the privilege of conveying the land to the Green
V.
occupant, and receiving in return the assessed
Biddle.
to
thus
and
improvements,
the
without
it
of
value
protect himself against a judgment, and execution
for the value of the improvements. If he declines
doing this, he shall recover possession of his land,
but shall then pay the estimated value of the improvements, and also lose the rents and profits
accrued before notice of the claim. But to entitle
him to claim the value of the land as above mentiondd, he must give bond and security to warrant
the title.
The act of 1812 contains the following provisions :
1. That the peaceable occupant of land, who
supposes it to belong to him in virtue of some
legal or equitable title, founded on a record, shall
be paid by the successful claimant for his improvements.
2. That the claimant may avoid the payment
of the value of such improvements, at his election,
by relinquishing the land to the occupant, and be
paid its estimated value in its unimproved state.
Thus, if the claimant elect to pay for the value
of the improvements, he is to give bond and security to pay the same, with interest, at different
instalments. If he fail to do this, or if the value
of the improvements exceeds three fourths of the
unimproved land, an election is given to the occupant to have a judgment entered against the claimant for the assessed value of the improvements,
or to take the- land, giving bond and security to

5

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Greeb

V.

Biddle.

pay the value of the land, if unimproved, by inwith interest.
But if the claimant is not willing to pay for the
improvements, and- they should exceed three

Sstalments,

fourths of the value of the unimproved land, the
occupant is obliged to give bond and security to
pay the assessed value of the land, with interest;
which if he 'fail to do, judgment is to be entered
against him for such value, -the claimant releasing
his right to the land, and giving bond and security
to warrant the title.
If the value of the improvements does not exceed three fourths of the value of the unimproved
land, then the occupant is not bound (as he is in
the former case) to give bond and security to pay
the value of the land; 'but he may claim a judgment for the value of his improvements; or take
the land, giving bond and security, as before mentioned, to pay the estimated value of the land.
3. The exemption of the occupant from the payment of the rents ind profits, extends to all such
as accrued during his occupancy, before judgment
rendered against him in the first' instance: but
such as accrue after such judgment, for a term not
exceeding five years, as also waste and damage,
committed by the occupant after 8uit brought, are
to be deducted from the value of the improvements, or the Court may render judgment for them
against the occupant.
4. The amount of such rents-and profits, damages and waste, and alsb the value of the improvements, and of the land without the improvements,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

are to be ascertained by commissioners, to be appointed by the Court; and who act under oath.

1823.
Green
V.

The cause was argued at February term, 1821, Biddfle.
by Mr.' Talbot and Mr. B. Hardn, for the dernandants, no counsel appearing for the tenant.
They contended, that the acts of the State legis- Ftb.6 1h,
lature, in question, were inconsistent with the true

meaning and spirit of the compact of 1789, their
avowed scope and object being to change the existing condition of the parties litigant, respecting
the security of private rights and interests of land,
within the territory of Kentucky, derived from the
laws of Virginia prior to the separation. These
acts do not merely attempt to alter the mode of
prosecuting remedies for the recovery of rights and
interests thus derived, (which possibly- they nr.ght
do,) but essentially affect the right and interest in
the land recovered. They seek to accomplish
this, by diminishing or destroying the value of the
interest in controversy, by compelling the successful claimant and rightful owner of the land, to pay
the one half, and, in some instances, the entire
value of the land recovered; not the -actual value
of the amelibration of the land, while held by the
ocoupying claimant, but the expense and labour
of.'making the improvements.
Both the acts are framed in the same spirit and
with the same object; both are adapted to' change
the relative condition of the parties, to the great
prejudice of the rightful owner. The principal object in view in the act of 1797, was to exempt the
occupant from his liability for waste committed by
him, or rents and profits received by him, prior

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
- Green
v.

Biddle.

to the commencement of the suit for the land, al-.
though he may, when he first took possession,
have had full notice of the plaintiff's title, and
consequently be a male fidei possessor. The act
of 1812, purporting to be in amendment of the
former act, with the avowed purpose of still further protecting the interests of the occupant, completely exempts him from all liability for waste
committed, or for rents and profits received, before the judgment or decree in the suit. In no
possible case can the right owner recover more
than five years' rent, although the litigation may,
and frequently does, last a much 'longer period;
whilst he is subjected to the payment for all improvements made at any period of the suit, down
to the time of final judgment, to be set off against
the amount of his clainy for rents and profits.
abridged and limited as it is by this act.
The object of the compact was plainly to secure to all persons deriving titles under the then
existing laws of Virginia, the entire and perpetual
enjoyment of their rights of property, against any
future legislative acts of the State of Kentucky,
which it was foreseen might be passed under the
influence of local feelings and interests. The
compact did not merely intend to secure the determination of the titles to land by those laws, but
also the actual enjoyment of the rights and interests thus established. It did not intend to givb
the true owner a right to recover, and then to
couple that right with such onerous conditions as
to make it worthless: to compel him to repurchase
his own land, by indemnifying the occupant, (often

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a mala fidei possessor,) not for his expenses and
labour in improving the value, but frequently in
the deterioration of the land, to the -great injury of
the owner. The "rights and interests," of which
the compact speaks, were not only to be rendered
valid and secure, by preserving the modes and
forms of proceeding for the assertion of those
tights, .but by preserving the existing provisions
of law and -rules of equity, under which the practical object and end of a suit-are to be attained: the
possession and enjoyment of the land, unburthened
with any unjust conditions extorted by fraud and
violence. Its letter and-spirit both, forbid the interpretation, by which laws are made to exempt the
occupant from his liability to account for the mesne
profits, upon the pre-existing principles of law and
equity; and by which that exemption is extended
to every period of time, from his first taking possession down to his being actually ejected, without any regard to the circumstances by which the
original character of his possession may be entirely
changed by notice of a better tide, of which he
might have been originally ignorant. And is not
the loss or injury resulting from the diminution of
the value or amount, recovered and actually received by the true owner, by taking one half the
value of the land to pay for the estimated value or
cost of the pretended ameliorations, of the same
extent, as if, upon a recovery of an entire tract of
land, the judgment was*to be declared satisfied
by delivering possession of a moiety only? Do
then the 'ights and interests of land, as they were
derived from the laws of Virginia, remain valid
VOL. VIII.

2

11825.
v.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. and secure, under these acts of the legislature of
\Kentucky?
If by validity and security be meant
Gre~en
V. injury, forfeiture, and destruction, then indeed
Biddle.
the terms of the compact are amply satisfied.
But if an entire and complete protection of these
rights and interests, as to their value, use, and
enjoyment by the true owner, was intended; then
the laws in question, (the avowed object and
intontion, as well as the practical operation of
which, is to better the condition of the occupant
at the expense of the true and lawful owner, by
compelling the latter, after he has recovered a formal judgment, establishing the validity of his title,
to purchase the execution of that judgment by the
performance of conditions which the laws existing
in 1789 did not require,) are a gross violation of
the compact, and consequently unconstitutional
and void. If, in short, that which cannot be done
directly, ought not to be permitted to be done indirectly and circuitously, the legislature of Kentucky were no more authorized to enact rules or
regulations, by the operation of which the land
recovered by the real owner is encumbered with
a lien, to the amount of half, or any other proportion of its value, for the benefit of the occupant, and to indemnify him for his fault or misfortune in claiming under a defective title, than
they would have been to produce tli. -ame effect,
and to equalize the condition of the parties, by
dividing the specific land between them.
.Marc 5th,
81.

Mr. Justice

Court.

STORY

delivered the opinion of the

OF THE UNrTED STATES.

The first question certified from the Circuit
Court of Kentucky, in this cause, is, whether the
acts of Kentucky, of the 27th of February, 1797,
and of the 31st of January, 1812, concerning occupying claimants of land, are unconstitutional?
This question depends principally upon the
construction of the seventh article of the compact
made between Virginia and Kentucky, upon the
separation of the latter from the former .State,
that compact being a part of the constitution of
Kentucky. The seventh article declares, "that all
private rights and interests of lands, within tli said
District, derived from the laws of Virginia, shall
remain valid and secure under the laws of the
proposed State, and shall be determined by the
laws now existing in this State."
We should have been glad, in the consideration
of this subject, to have had the benefit of an argument on behalf of the tenant; but as no counsel has appeared for him, and the cause has been
for some time before the Court, it is necessary to
pronounce the decision, which, upon deliberation,
we have formed.
As far as we can understand the construction of
the seventh article of the compact contended for by
those who assert the constitutionality of the laws
in question, it is, that it was intended to secure to
claimants of lands their rights and interests
therein, by preserving a determination of their
titles by the laws under which they were acquired.
If this be the true and only import of the article,
it is a mere nullity; for, by the general principles
of law, and from the necessity of the case, titles to

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.

Biddle.

real estate can be determined only by the laws of
the State under which they are acquired. Titles
to land cannot be acquired or transferred in any
other mode than that prescribed by the laws of the
territory where it is situate. Every government
has, and from the nature of sovereignty must
have, the exclusive right of regulating the descent,
distribution, and grants of the domain within its
own boundaries; and this right must remain, tintil
it yields it up by compact or conquest. When once
a title to lands is asserted under the laws of a territory, the validity of that title can be judged of by
no other rule than those laws furnish, in which it
had its origin; for no title can be acquired contrary to those laws : and a title good by those laws
cannot be disregarded but by a departure from the
first principles of justice. If the article meant,
therefore, what has been supposed, it meant only
to provide for the affirmation of that which is the
universal rule in the Courts of civilized nations,
professing to be governed by the dictates of law.
Besides, the titles to lands can, in no just sense,
in compacts of this sort, be supposed to be separated from the rightsand interests in those lands.
iwould be.almost a mockery to suppose that Virginia could feel any solicitude as to the recognition of the abstract validity of titles, when they
would draw after them no beneficial enjoyment of
the property. Of what value is that title which
communicates no right or interest in the land
itself ? or how can that be said to be any title at
all which cannot be asserted in a Court of justice

OF THE UNITED STATES.

by the owner, to defend or obtain possession of his
property ?
•
The language of the seventh article cannot, in
our judgmentbe so construed. The word title does
not occur in it. It declares, in the most explicit
terms, that all private rights and interests of
lands, derived from the laws of Virginia, shall remain valid and secure under the laws of Kentucky,
and shall be determined by the laws then existing
in Virginia. It plainly imports, therefore, that
these rights and interests, as to their nature and
extent, shall be exclusively determined by the laws
of Virgiiiia, and that their security and validity
shall not be in any way impaired by the laws of
Kentucky. Whatever law, therefore, of Kentucky, does narrow these rights and diminish
these interests, is a violation of the compact, and
is consequently unconstitutional.
The only question, therefore, is, whether the acts
of 1797 and 1812 have this effect. It is undeniable that no acts of a similar character were in existence in Virginia at the time when the compact
was made, and therefbre no aid can be derived
from the actual legislation of Virgiida to support
them. The act of 1797 provides, that persons
evicted from lunds to which they can show a plain
and connected title in law or equity, without actual
notice of an adverse title, shall be exempt from
all suits for rents or profits prior to actual notice
of such adverse -title. It also provides, that comissioners shall be appointed by the Court pronouncing the judgment of eviction, to assess the
value of all lasting and valuable improvements.

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

CASES IN TflE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.

Biddle.

made on the land, prior to such notice, and they
are to return the assessment thereof, after subtracting all damages to the land by waste, &c. to
the Court; and judgment is to be entered for the
assessment, in favour of the person evicted, if
the balance be for him, against the successful party,
upon which judgment execution shall immediately
issue, unless such party shall give bond for the
payment of the same, with five per cent. interest, in
twelve months from the date thereof. And if the
balance be in favour of the successful party, a like
judgment and proceedings are to be had in his favour. The act further provides, that the commiasioners shall also estimate the value of the lands,
exclusive of the improvements;. and if the value
of the improvements shall exceed the value of the
lands, the successful claimant may transfer his
title to the other party, and have a judgment in his
favour against such party for such estimated value
of the lands, &c. There are other provisions not
material to be stated.
The act of the 31st of January, 1812; provides,
that if any person hath seated or improved, or shall
thereafter seat or improve any lands, supposing
them to be his own by reason of a claim in law or
equity, the foundation of such claim being of public
record, but which lands shall be proved to belong to
another, the charge and value of such seating and
improving, shall be paid by the right owner to such
seater or improver, or his assignee, or occupan't
so claiming. If the right owner is not willing to
disburse so much, an estimate is to be made of
the value of the lands, exclusive of the seating

OF T-IE UNITED STATLS.

and improvements; and also of the value of such 1823.
seating and improvements. If the value of the Green
seating. and improving exceeds three fourths of
V.
the value of the lands if unimproved, then the Biddle.
valuation of the land is to be paid by the seater or
improver; if not exceeding three fourths, then the
valuation of the seating and improving is to be
paid by the right owner of the land. The act
further provides, that no action shall be maintained for rents or profits against the occupier, for
any time elapsed before the judgment or decree in
the suit. The act then provides for the appointment of commissioners to make the valuations;
and for the giving of bonds, &c. for the amount
of the valuations, by the party who is to pay the
same; and in default theieof, provides that judgment shall be given against the party for the
amount; or if the right owner falls to give bond,
&c. the other party may, at his. election, give bond,
&c:..and take the land. And the act then proceeds to declare, that the occupant shall not be
evicted or dispossessed by a writ of possession,
until the report of the commissioners is made,
and judgment rendered, or bonds executed in pursuance of the act.
From this summary of the p'incipal provisions
of the acts of 1797 and 1812, it is apparent that
they materially impair the rights and interests of
the rightful owner in the land itself. They are
parts of a system, the object of which is to compel the rightful owner to relinquish his lands, or
pay for all lasting improvements.made upon them,
without his consent or default: and in many cases

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,.

those improvements may greatly exceed the original cost and value of the lands in his hands. No
V. judgment can be executed, and no possesqion obBiddle. tamined for the lands, unless upon the terms of com-

'' Green

plying with the requisitions of the acts. They,
therefore, in effect, create a direct and permanent
lien upon-the lands for the value of all lasting improvements made upon them; without the payment
of which, the possession and enjoyment of the
lands cannot be. acquired. It requires no reasoning to show, that such laws necessarily diminish
the beneficial interests of the rightful owner in
the lands. Under the laws of Vjrginia no such
burthen was imposed on the owner. He had a
right to sue for, recover, and enjoy them, without
any such deductions or payments.
The seventh article of the compact meant to secure all private rights and interests derived from
the laws of Virginia, as valid and secure under
the laws of Kentucky, as they were under the then
existing laws of Virginia. To make those rights
and interests so valid and secure, it is essential to
preserve the beneficial proprietary interest of the
rightful owner, in the same- state in which they
were, by the laws of Virginia, at the time of the
separation. If the legislature of Kentucky had
declared by law, that no person should recover
lands in this predicament, unless upon payment, by
the owner, of a moiety, or of the whole of their value, it would beobvious that the former rights and
interests of the owner would be completely extinguished pro tanto. If it had further provided,
that he should be compelled to sell the same at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

one half or one third of their value, or compelled
to sell, without his own consent, at a price to
be fixed by others, it would hardly be doubted
that such laws were a violation of the compact.
These cases may seem strong; but they differ not
in the nature,but in the degree only of the wrong
inflicted on the innocent owner. He is no more
bound by the laws of Virginia to pay for improvements, which he has not authorized, which he
may not want, or which he .may deem useless,
than he is to pay a sum to a stranger for the liberty
of possessing and using his own property, according to the rights and interests secured to him by
those laws. It is no answer, that the acts of
Kentucky, now in question, are regulations of the
remedy, and not of the right to lands. If those
acts so-change the nature and extent of existing
remedies, as materially to impair the rights and
interests of the owner, they are just as much a
violation of the compact, as'if they directly overturned his rights and interests.
It is the unanimous opinion of the Court, that
the acts of 1797 and 1812, are a violation of the
seventh article of the compact with Virginia, and
therefore are unconstitutional. This opinion renders it unnecessary to give any opinion on the
second question certified to us from the Circuit

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

Court.a
Mr. Clay, (as amicus curie,) moved for a re- March 12io

hearing in the cause, upon the ground that it ina Present Mr. Chief Justice M.ARSHALL, and Justices JoHNsox,
LIVINGSTON, TODD, D'VALL, and STORY.
Vor,. VII1.

1821.

CASES IN rI1E SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green
Green

V.
Biddle.

volved the rights and claims of numerous occupants of land in Kentucky, who had been allowed
by the laws of that State, in consequence of the
confusion of the land titles, arising out of the vicious system of location under the land law of
Virginia, an indemnity for their expenses and labour bestowed upon lands of which they had been
the bone fidei possessors and improvers, and
which were reclaimed by the true owners. lIe
stated, that the rights and interests of those claimants would be irrevocably determined by this decision of the Court, the tenant in the present
cause having permitted it to be brought to a hearing without appearing by his counsel, and without
any argument on that side of the question. He
therefore moved, that the certificate to the Circuit
Court, of the opinion of this Court upon the questions stated, should be withheld, and the cause
continued to the next term for argument.
Motion granted.

March 8th,
91h, l0th, and

la, 1822.

Mr. Montgomery, for the demandant, made
three points:

1st. That this Court is invested with the power
of questioning the validity of the legislative acts
of Kentucky, under which the tenant claims, both
by the national constitution and the State constitution of Kentucky.
2d. That the acts of Kentucky, so far as they
respect the present controversy, are null and void.
5d. That the act of 1812 cannot be applied to the
case, consistently with the provisions of the constitution of Kentucky and of ihe United States.

OF TUE UNITED STATES.

1. He denie.d that,.this Court was bound by the 1823.
exposition, given b.y the State Courts, to that part - Green
of the State constitution now drawn in question,
v.
even in a case of which the national judiciary had Biddle.
cognizance merely from the character of the parties litigant, as being citizens of different States:
and still less where the subject matter in controversy was connected with that provision of the
United States' constitution, which- secured the inviolability of contracts against State legislative
acts. Such a doctrine would furnish an effectual
recipe for sanctioning injustice by the forms of
law, by giving to local decisions a much more extensive effect than had ever been before attributed
to them. Unquestionably, the adjudications of the
State Courts, where they have become a settled
rule of property,.are in general to be regarded as
conclusive evidence of the local law; but where
the interpretation' of the fundamental law of the
State is involved, and especially where that interpretation depends upon the constitution of the
Union, (which is the supreme law,) the State
Courts must necessarily be controlled by the supe.rintending authority of this Court. This depends upon a principle peculiar to our constitutions, and which distiaguishes them from every
free and limited government which has been hitherto known in the world. In England, the
legislative power of Parliament is not nnly supreme, but it is absolute, and (so far as depends
upon written rules) despotic-and uncontrollable
by any other authority whatever.a But various
a 1 BI.-Com.

160-162.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

limitations upon the legislative power are contained in the constitution of Kentucky; and that
of the United States contains other restraints
upon the legislative power of the several States,
and gives to the national judiciary the authority
of enforcing them, especially in controversies arising between ciiizens of different States, as the
present case does.
2. He stated that the second point would be
maintained by establishing two propositions. First,
that the legislative acts in question are repugnant
to the -terms of the compact of 1789, between the
States of Virginia and Kentucky, which is made a
fundamental article of the constitution of Kentucky. Second, that the acts are repugnant to
that constitution, in depriving the demandant of
the trial by jury;
The terms used in the compact, " rights and
interests of land," import something more than a
mere formal title. A right of property necessarily includes the right to recover the possession,
to enter, to enjoy the rents and profits, and to continue to possess undisturbed by others." He
who has a right to land, and is in possession, has
a right to be maintained in that possession, .and
in the use of the land and its fruits; and he who
has a right to land, but is out of possession, has a
right to recover the possession or seisin. These
are the qualities and incidents of a right to land at
common law; i6ne of which had been taken away
by the statute at the time the compact was made.
a Jac. Law Dic. tit. Right, 536.
8 Rep. A f1wnz's case. Plowd. 478 -

Co. Lilt. . 445. 447.

OF "kHE UNITED STATES.

.As to the word "interest," it might have been in- 1823.
serted ez abundanti cautela, to protect rights Green
which, at the time of the compact, were not yet
V.
Biddle.
applied
as
interest,
term
carried into grant. The
to land, according to many authorities, may be
something different from a right to land in fee
simple; yet it cannot be doubted, that he who has
a fee simple has an interest in the land. A term
for years is an interest, and so is the right both of
mortgagor and mortgagee. It is then quite clear,
that the term rights and interests of land medns
a great deal more than the mere use and possession of the evidence of title.
What, then, were the pre-existing rules of law
and equity, with reference to which the compact
of 1789 is to be construed? By. the common law
then in force in Virginia, and by the statute of
1785, the remedy by writ of right was given to
him who had the fee; and if the demandant recovered.his seisin, he might also recover damages, to
be assessed by the recognitors of assize, for the
tenant's withholding possession of the tenement
demanded.a In cases where an ejectment was
brought, the: party might have his separate action
for the mesne profits, which could only be restrained in its operation by the statute of limitations of
fiv years. As to the system of positive equity,
which had been established at the period referred
to, and which it was supposed was not infringed
by the legislative acts now in question, it will be
found that the cases where the Court of Chancery
a I Virg. Rev. Cod. 33.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v%

Green

V.

Biddle.

has interfered, may be reduced to the following
classes: (1) Where the party came into equity in
order to disembarrass his legal title of difficulties
resulting from the defect of evidence at law, and
also prayed a decree for the mesne profits. (2.)
Where the title was merely equitable, Chancery
has decreed both as to the title and for the mesne
profits. (3.) So also in cases of dower, the title
as well as the mesne profits has been decreed.
(4.) In caseb where infants are interested, the
title and mesne profits have both been determined.
In all these cases, the plaintiff sought relief, as
well touching the title, as for an account of the
mesne profits; and the claimant has therefore
been allowed for valuable and lasting improvements, bona fide made. In the first and second
classes, the account for mesne profit has been
taken from the time of bringing the suit only, because tl-e plaintiff had improperly lain by with his
title. But where that fact does not appear, the
account is always carried back to the time the title
accrued.a There is no case where a bill has
been filed by the occupant, claiming the value of
his improvements against the right owner. The
cases where it has been allowed, are where the
title and an account of rents and profits constituted the matter of the complainant's bill, and
where the defendant resisted the relief sought, by
setting up some colour of title in himself, with a
a 2 Vern. 724. 1 4tk. 524-5'6. 2 Ak. 83. 283. 3.4tk.
130--134. 2 1'. Wns. 45, 616. 1 Madd. Chant. 73-75.
1 Wa],. 329.

tiF THE UNITED STATES.

claim for the improvements. This went upon the 1823.
favourite maxim of the Court of Chancery, that Green
V.
he who will have equity must do equity. But
Biddle.
plainthe
was
occupant
the
where
though no case,
tiff, is to be found before 1789, yet it is admitted
there are certain maxims and principles of equity,
which, combined with the peculiar state of land
titles in Ke.ntucky, would authorize a Court of
equity to relieve. Yet it is quite evident, that a
party coming with his bill for relief, after a recovery had against him at law, must have stood
upon a very different ground than the complainants in the cases above referred to. His application must have been to the extraordinary powers
of the Court; he must have come in under the
rule, that he who will have equity must do equity;
he would not have been permitted to gain by the
loss of the other party. 0 Upon a bill brought
after a recovery in a real action, the account would
have been carried .back to the time of his first
taking possession: complete equity would have
been done by making a full estimate of the value
of the rents and waste on one side, and of the improvements on the other; the want of notice of
the defendant's title could not have been considered as important, since he would stand upon
his judgment at law: but the decree would be for
the balance of the account thus taken. After a
recovery of mesne profits, in the action of tresa Locupletiorem neminem fieri cur alterius detrimeuto et injuria jure natura aquum est. L. Jure Naturc, 206. De Div.

Reg.

:.ru
Jntiq.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

pass, following a recovery in ejectment, if ihe occupant had not pleaded the statute of limitations,
he might have brought his bill, and the matter
would have been adjusted in the same mode; but
if he had pleaded the statute, and thus deprived
the true owner of a part of his indemnity, he could
not stand before the Court as a party willing to do
equity, and consequently could not have equity.
But even supposing that a bill would be retained
in such a case, most certainly the same rule of
limitations which deprived the proprietor of a part
of his damages, would also be applied to the improvements made before the time of limitation.
Admitting, too, that with respect to questions between the owner of the title as complainant, claiming relief, as well touching the title as for the
rents and profits, and the other party, all the cases
cannot be reconciled, yet there is a:very decided
preponderance in favour of the doctrine now
maintained; and with respect to a naked claim
for improvements,' there is no contradiction whatever.
As to the terms "vahd and secure," which are
used in the compact, with reference to the rights
and interests of land derived from the laws of Virginia, they must import the permanent validity
and security of whatever is included in, or incident to, the complete enjoyment of those rights
and interests. This validity and security is impaired by the acts of the State legislature. now in
question. By. the common law, connected with
the statute of Virginia, before cited, the demandant, in a writ of right, was entitled to recover,

OF THE UNITED STATES,

together with his seisin, .such damages as the jury 1828.
might think him entitled to, for the detention of Gmen
the land, and for the~waste committed upon it,- exV.
Bi~de.
enoccupant
the
when
time
tending back to the
tered upon the land. But by the act of 1797, s. 1,
he is to recover no damages for the 'use of the
land before actual notice, nor even subsequent to
that'notice, unless the suit is brought within a year.
By the third section of the act of 1812, -his damages for the detention are not to commence until
the final judgment or decree in the Court of original jurisdiction. Under the first act, his right
to damages is greatly diminished; under the second, it is almost annihilated. But suppose the
respective rights of the parties are teste.by the
settled doctrines of positive equity; the tenant,.
in the present case, seeking equity from a party
who had a clear legal right, would have been
compelled to do complete equity. He would have
received an equitable allowance for his improvements, if bona fide made; but the judgment of
the demandant would not- have been disturbed;
the value of the improvements would have been
compared with the amount of his damages, and a
decree rendered according to the result of that
comparison. In the case of a recovery by ejectment, followed by the action of trespass for mesne
-profits, which Was the undoubted right of the
owner of the land, as the law stood in 1789, the
right of the ,plaintiff is diminished by the acts now
in question. Under the old law, he could not be
restricted from inquiring into the damages sus-

tained, from the time the defendant entered upon.
VOL. VIII.

4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.

Biddle.

the land down to the time of suit brought, unless
the defendant pleaded the statute of limitations.
But if the occupant insisted on that defence, lie
could have no remedy in equity. The act of 1812
also makes the giving a bond for the value of the
improvements a condition to the recovery of possession, thus depiiving the true owner of his preexistent absolute right to the appropriate writ of
execution.
. It is clear, then, that the rights of the proprietor
of the land are impaired by the statutes in question; they are neither determined by the same
laws, nor by the same principles of equity incorporated into new laws.
Nor can these statutes be supported on the
principles of abstract justice. It is not only a
maxim of the Court of Chancery, but of every
wise legislator, that equality is equity. So, -also,
one ought, not to gain by the loss of another, who
was in no fault. From these two maxims, the
corollary may be drawn, that where the respective
capitals of two individuals are equal, and their occupations, skill, and industry are the same, their
condition in the social state, (so far as it depends
upon legislative regulations,) ought to be precise
ly the same. Not that one may not benefit by
turns of good fortune, without sharing his gains
with the other; but that the law should not take
from the one, to give to the other, tendering the
one richer to make the other poorer, without some
fault of the latter. Here the counsel illustrated
the application of these priliciples, by putting a
variety of cases which might occur under the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

statutes, to show the extreme injustice and inequality of their operation.
Nor does the fourth article of the compact, of
1789, warrant the passage of the acts under consideration. It merely gives to Kentucky the
power of requiring lands to be improved and cultivated after six years. Tha this article does not
apply to the present case may be shown by several
considerations : (1.) The acts-in question do not,
by their terms, purport to be in execution of such
a power. (2.) A power to require the owners
of land to improve and cultivate for the general
welfare, is one thing; and a power to take away
the property of one citizen and give it to another,
is a very different thing. (3.) A law requiring
improvement and. cultivation, and declaring a forfeiture for non-compliance, would only be applied
to un6ccupied lands; whereas the lands to which
alone the acts are applied are actually improved
and cultivated. The true owner is. prevented by
the acts of him who has usurped the possession
from personal compliance.
It may be contended, that there are certain ancient statutes of Virginia, recognising the same
obnoxious principles with the recent acts of Kentucky. But the only statute at all partaking of
this character was that (called) of the 13th of
Charles I., but in fact passed immediately after
the restoration. This statute was entirely retrospective in its operation, and was intended to apply :o a peculiar state of things existing duriig
the civil wars and the Commonwealth, as distinctly appears, both by the preamble and the enacting

I$o
v.
BWdle.

CASES IN TIlE SI.PREMIE COUJI'I

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

clauses. It contained, however, no provision br
depriving the true owner of the rents, &c. and
was actually repealed in 1748.
As to the second particular proposition, under
this general head, the constitution of Kentucky
expressly declares, (art. 10. s. 6.) that " The ancient mode of trial by jury shall be held sacred,
and the right thereof remain inviolate." The law
of Virginia prescribed this mode of trial as to
writs of right with all its details, and amongst
others, that the damages of the demandant for the
detention of the land should be assessed by the
jury. An arbitrary tribunal of commissioners is
substituted for this ancient mode of trial, by the
acts, the validity of which is now drawn in ques-:
tion. Thus is not only the amount of damages
to which the demandant was entitled, under the
old law, diminished to a pittance, buj even that is
to be liquidated by a tribunal far more unfavourable to him than a jury.
3. The third general point would follow as a
corollary from the proof of the two following propositions, or either of them : (1.) That the act
of 1812 is repugnant both to the United States'
constitution and that of Kentucky, as being retrospective in its operation upon vested rights,
and as impairing the obligation of contracts. (2.)
That it is repugnant to the constitution of Kentucky, in determining, by the legislative department, a matter which is exclusively cognizable by
the judicial.
And first: the State constitution provides, art.
10. s. 18, that " No ex post facto law, nor law

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

impairing contracts, shall be made ;" and the national. constitution declares, rt. 1. s. •13. that
"No State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts." The terms of the prohibition are very similar, and the substance is absolutely the same. In the
case at bar, the injury to the demandant was committed long before the passage of the act of 1812,
which has interposed and violently deprived him of
his remedy, even pendente lite. Considering the two
prohibitions against ex post facto laws, and against
laws impairing the obligation of contracts, together, they will be found to afford a complete protection to vested rights of property, and to apply
precisely to the present case. All rights of action
are founded either upon contracts or upon torts;
they are either ex contractu or cx delictu. The
framers of our constitutions, by the prohibitions
against impairing the obligation of contracts, intended to protect all rights dependent upon contract from being diminished or destroyed; and
they could not certainly have intended to leave
injuries to property arising ex delictu wholly unredressed, or to leave the remedy to the caprice of
the State legislatures. Doubtless, the more generally received opinion is, that this prohibition
of ex post facto laws is to be restricted to criminal
matters. But there are great authorities to the
contrary. The commentator on the laws of England, in laying down the maxim of political philosophy, that ex post facto laws ought not to be
passed, does indeed illustrate his position by a
criminal case: and probably some have been mis-

1823.
Green

V.
Bid

'e

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.

Biddle.

led, by taking the example for the rule.a Dr.
however, lays down the rule without any
qualification whatever.'
But supposing this first proposition to be ques-

SPaley,

tionable, there certainly can be no doubt as to the
second. By the constitution of Kentucky, it is
declared, that " The powers of government shall
be dividad into three distinct departments, and
iack of them be confided to a separate body of
magistracy, to wit: those which are legislative to
one; those which are executive, to another; and
those which are judicial, to another." And by the
second section of the same article, that "No person, or collection of persons, shall exercise any
power properly belonging to either of the others:
excepting in the instances hereinafter expressly
direqted or permitted." Now it cannot be denied,
that a particular controversy, arising out of facts,
which, by an existing law, give the parties a right
to certain remedies in the Courts, is a matter exclusively of judicial cognizance. But here' the
legislative department has adjudicated upon it by
interfering with these remedies, after a uis pendens, so as to take away the property of one and
give it to another party. It is an adjudicat-on discharging the tenant from a just claim which the
demandant had "against-himunder the former law,
without any equivalent or indemnity to the latter.
That this adjudication has been clothed with the
fbrms of public and general legislation, and includes every case of the same class, can make no
4

1 M. Cown.'46.

b Paley'8 Mor. and Pol.Phil. 444.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

difference. This is an example of that very sort
of legislation which Dr. Paley reprobates, and
calls double; it being the exercise both of judicial
and legislative power. Such legislative acts do
not discriminate between difli eit cases, according
to their peculiar circumstances, as the judicial
authority would do. Thus, the act of 1812 confounds together the case of the person lying in
wait with his title, to take an unfair advantage of
the compact, and that of the rightful owner, who
has constantly and openly pursued his claim;
cases of infancy and of full age; of fair and frau,
dulent settlement: in short, all circumstances a~d
qualities are indistinguishably blended in one
sweeping act of retrospective injustice.
Mr. Bibb, contra, contended, that the substantial effect of the acts of 1797 and 1812, went
merely to allow the grantee from the Commonwealth, who, under faith in his grant, has made
valuable and lasting improvements, the amount
of those improvements; 'and to exempt him from
accounting for rents and profits, down to the time
when lie begins to be a meilr fidei possessor by
resisting the better title of the true owner. That
the acts did not apply even to cases of disputed
boundaries, but only to cases of conflicting titles;
nor to cases of fraud, or of lands previously cultivated and improved. He entered into a detail of
the provisions of the laws, of. the practice under
them, 'and of the exposition they had received
from the Courts; and-contended,
1st. That the principle of the act of 1812. is a

182
v.

Bid e.

CASES IN THL SUPREMfE COURT

1823.
Green

V.

Biddle.

principle of natural equity and justice, as to perimprovements by a bona fidei possessor,
2d. That the principle of postponing the account of rents and profits, is the true Chancery

Smanent

rule, and such as "Qfamiliarly applied in the practice of Courts cf equity.
3d. That the laws are not repugnant to the compact of 1789..
1. The circumstances under which the country, where this momentous question arises, was
settled, are to be considered. The manner in
which it was colonized, and in which the titles to
land were first acquired, and the consequent confusion of conflicting claims and litigation, are, unfortunately, but too well known to the Court. Under
these difficult circumstances, all that the local legislature, has done, is to assert the principle of
natural justice and artificial equity, that he who
takes possession of vacant lands, under a prima
facie legal title, and makes valuable and -lasting
improvements, shall be considered as a bonefidei
possessor. Such is the well established rule of
the Court of Chancery, as to improvements which
must pass with the freehold to the party asserting
his paramount title. It is applied, where a vendee, under an agreement for a sale, takes possession : so, also, where a mortgagee is in possession,
the Court never permits a redemption without paying for permanent improvements. If, then, the
party has a right, in similar cases, to an indemnity,
is it any objection that the statute has defined a
rule, declaring what requisites shall be indispen-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sable? What better evidence of bona fides can
there b than a grant under the great seal?
There is a great variety of claims, consisting
of different grades or classes, complicating the

titles to lands in Kentucky, and depending mnt
merely on legal doubts, but on questions of evidence of great difficulty.'G What is thi opposing
claim, which is of such validity as, prima faie,
to conVert the occupant into a mala fidei possessor? The local tribunals have laid down the
only sai practical rule, which is, that the positive
decision of a Court of record shail alone be sufficient. All grants are by record, and the patent
can only be repealed by matter of record. There
must be a scire facids to repeal the patent; and
in the ease of escheat, a regular inquisitinn is indispensable. Until the grant of the Commonwealth is annulled, a person claiming and holding
under it, cannot be considered as a malev f&i
possessor. The validity of the laws in question,
has been confirmed by iimumerable decisions; and
they have been always strictly confined in their
operation to cases of conflicting titles under
grants and have never been extended to protect
a make ftdei possession.6
2. The general principle of eqUity is settled by
a series of decisions, both in England and in this
country. A leading case Pn this subject, is that
of the Duke of Bolton v. Deane.* There the
a 1 B0b's Rep. Preface.

b I Mareh. Kentucky Rep. 443. 2 Mhh. 214. 3 BiM's
Pep. 298. 4 Bibb's Rep. 461. 1 Marh. 246, 247.
c Finch&'s Prec. in Ch. 516.

VOL. VIII.

182.
V.

Bidd_.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18 3.
Green

IV.

Bidd"e.

doctrine was established, that if the lessor suffers
the lessee to hold over, equity will not compel the
tenant to account for mesne profits, unless the
lessor was hindered from entering by 'fraud, or
some extraordinary accident. The same principle is laid down, as to mesne profits, in several
other adjudged cases.a And wherever there has
,been any default or laches on the part of the true
,owner in asserting his title, the account is restrained to the filing of the bill. So, where a
man suffers another to build on his ground, without setting up a right till afterwards, a Court of
equity will compel the owiler to permit the builder
to enjoy it quietly. The same principle has been
recognised by our own Courts, and is also to be
found among the maxims of the Roman law.
3. As to the compact of 1789, between Virginia and Kentd ky, it is a treaty for good faith; a
mere recognition of the principles of natural law
and morality. A change of sovereignty does not
usually make any change in proprietary interests
in the soil; and the compact is merely declaratory
of that principle of public law. The Louisiana
treat* contains stipulations for the protection of
the property of the inhabitants, but it has never
been construed to limit the sovereign rights of the
United States over the domain of that province.
a 3 Eq. Cas. .4Ar

588. tit. Mesne Profits. 1 Ak. 526.
b Dormer v. Fortescue, 3 P. Wins. 136.

c East Ind. Company v. Vimcent, 2 4tk. 83.
d Southall v. M'Kean, 1 WYash. 336. 2 Domat's Cir. Law,
432. Strah l's Tramuation. Kaimea' Eq. 189. 1st Ed. 270.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Neither did the compact of 1789 intend to limit
the sovereignty of
Kentucky. It is merely a sti~Grewn
pulation for the conservation of titles in their integrity: for fair, and impartial legislation upon
.the rights of property which were originally derived from the laws of Virginia. It could not
have meant.to prevent the modification of reme-dies in the Courts, and generally. what is called
the &z foi. According to the doctrine contended
for on.the other side, the leislature of Kentucky
could not even extend the time for entering surveys: than which nothiifg could be more absurd
and extravagant.
-Butthe true principles by which the compact is
to be-interpreted have already been settled by this
Court. In Bodley v. Taylor, it laid down, that
if the same measure of justice be meted to the
citizens of each State; if laWs be neither mqde
nor expounded, for the purpose of depriving those
who are meant to be protected by the compact of
their rights; no violation of the compact can be
said to exist." This case also determines the
principle, that the decisions of the local Courts are
to be followed: and the inconveniences which
would flow from shaking'the system of land titles
established by the uniform series of their adjudications, is insisted on as a reason for adhering to
the rules of property thus established. " So, also,
this Court has solemnly sanctioned the act of Ken-:
tucky, giving further time for -urveys; as well as

a 5 Cranch's Rey.p23..

b 1b. 234.

1823.
v.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182$.
'concerning

V.
Biddle.

the statute of limitations of that State: and the act
champerty and maintenance.,
The system of legislation now in question, does
but follow the maxims laid down by Montesquieu,
that the laws should encourage industry; that the
more climate, and other circumstances, tend to discourage the cultivation of the earth, the more
should the legislator excite agriculture; and that
those laws which tend to monopolize the lands,
and take from individuals the proprietary spirit,
augment the effect of those unfavourable circumstances. Here. thQugh it is acknowledged that
the titles are to be decided according to the laws
of Virginia, existing at the epoch of the compact,
a new proprietary interest has grown bp since, not
foreseen nor provided for. The possessor in good
raith has covered the face of the country with his
own property, the fruits of his toil and industry,
which it is not just that the owner of the unimproved land should take from him, without an indemnity.
Again : how can this Court interfere, after the
settled decisions of the local Courts has confirmed
the validity of these laws, and thus disturb the
rules of property which have been firmly established;- and that too in a case where the parties
on both sides, really, interested in the controversy,
are citizens of the same State ? The subject is
not within the jurisdiction of the Court, either as
to the character of the parties really interested, or
a 2 Wheat. Rep. 324. 1 w.'wat. Rep. 292.
b EspritdesLoix,b. 14. c. 6. 8,9.11.

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

as to the subject matter of the controversy. The 1823.
jurisdiction originally given by the cpnstitution has
been defined and limited by the judiciary act, and
v.
idle.
is not co-extensive with what might have been
granted by Congress under the constitution. The
States may, with the consent of Congress, make
compacts or agreements with each other; but they
cannot make a treaty, even with the consent of
Congress. The judicial po wer then does not extend to such compacts, considering them as treaties, nor does that clause of the constitution, which
prohibits the States from making any law impairing the obligation of contracts, apply to lie present case. That prohibition can only bb fairly
construed to extend to contracts between private
indiViduals, or at most between a State and individuals. An agreement or compact, between two
different States, in their sovereign capacities, and
respecting their sovereign rights, can never, by
the utmost latitude of construction, be brought
within the grasp of a prohibition, which was evidently intended merely for the protection of private rights, growing out of private*contracts. or
out of a grant from the State, vesting a proprietary
interest in the grantee. The only remaining question -then is, whether this Court can declare a
State law void, as being repugnant to the constitution of the State, contrary to the uniform decisions of the State Courts,. who are the righttil
exclusive expounders of their own local law? It is
-a United States v. Bevans, 3 What. Rep. 336. 367. 390.
United States v. Wiltberger, 5 W'teat. Rep. 93.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
"the

Green

V.

Biddle.

conceived that this point is irrevocably settled by
decisions of this Court.a But even supposing
this to be a mistaken inference, it is quite clear,
from the uniform language and conduct of the
Court, that it will not declare an act, whether of
the State or national legislature, to be void, as
being repugnant to the fundamental law, unless
in a very- clear case. Besides, there is the 'less
necessity for the interference of the Court in the
present case, as the, compact itself provides a tribunal for the adjustment of any disputes which
may arise under it; and that stipulation, if-it does
not entirely exclude the jurisdiction of any other
tribunal in all cases arising under it, will at least
furnish a motive for great 'caution on the part of
the national judiciary in a case where, if citizens
of Kentucky alone are interested, they ought to be
bound .by the decisions of their own Courts; and
if the rights of citizens of Virginia are involved, it
depends upon the pleasure of that State to create
the triblinal by which they are to be determined.
Mr. Clay, on the same side, stated, that the
great question in the cause was, what is that'paramount rule, with which these laws are to be
compared, and, if found repugnant, to be declared
void by this Court. If the jurisdiction now to be
exercised arises under that clause of the national
constitution, prohibiting the individual States from
making any law impairing the obligation of contracts, then the Court may draw to its cognizance
a Calder v. Bill. S Dall. Rep. 386.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the subject matter in controversy. But if otherwise, then it can only acquire jurisdiction by the
character of the parties litigant, as. being citizens
of different States, and so entitled to the protection of the federal forum.
The first inquiry then would be, whether there
was any subsisting compact between the States
of Virginia and Kentucky, upon which the jurisdiction of *theCourt could fasten?
If there be a compact, it must be betweenparties capable of making it; upon a sukiicton which
they might constitutionally stipulate; and- made
in a form warranted by the constitution.
Waving the question as to the iparties,he would
contend,
1st. That the supposed cpmpact had not been
constitutionally made; and,
dly, That if the compact is to be"interpreted
as restraining the State of Kentucky froin passing
the laws in question, the restraint itself would be
unconstitutional and void.
1. Both by the original articles of confederation,
and the eisting national constitution, the States
are prohibited from treatipg or contracting with
each other, without the consent of Congress.
The terms of the prohibition in the constitution,
are very strong: " No State shall, without the
consent of Congress, enter into any agreement
or compact with another State, or. a foreign power." It extends to all agreements or compacts,
no matter what is the subject of them. It is immaterial, therefore, whether that subject be harmless or dangerous to the Union. There is here no

1823.
Grein

V.
]Bidde,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18.93.

room for interpretation. "Any agreement or
are the words, and all contracts between
the States, without the consent of Congress, are
interdicted. To make, therefore, the supposed
compact binding, it must have been entered into
with that consent. It is not now insisted, (though
perhaps it might -be,) that this consent must precede the compact. All that will be asked is, (what
cannot be denied,) that it must either precede or
follow the compact,
In the present case, there is no pretence for alleging a subsequent etpress assent. Was there
then a prior one? The act of Virginia did not
even profess to ask the consent of Congress to
the compact- All that it demanded, was, that
Congress should consent to the admission of the
proposed State into the Union, &.c. and. Congress
has not even responded to all that was asked.
What it has assented to, can only be ascertaihed
by resorting to the language it has thought fit to
use. The act of February 4, 1791. (by which
alone the will of Congress on this subject is
signified,) merely declares the consent of that
body to the erecting of the District of Kentucky
into a separate and independent State, and its reception into the Union upon a certain day. Beyond what was asked of it, Congress has not
gone: as to the rest of the matters connected
with these, it was altogether passive. There was
then no compact. It was a mere negotiation:
ubr the people of Kentucky did not meet in convention until 1792, when it is supposed that their
assent to the compact was given.

Scompact"

V.
Bidl.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But it may be said, that though Congress did
not expressly consent, yet it acquiesced in the
compact, which is equivalent. This is what is
denied. The consent of Congress being required,
it must be evidenced by some positive act. Congress is a collective body, or, rather, it consists of
three bodies, each of which participates in the
exercise of the legislative power of the nation.
The forms and ceremonies of passing laws must
be observed. The doctrine of acquiescence cannot apply to the exercise of such a sovereign
power. Did the House of Representatives; did
the Senate; did the President, acquiesce? How
do you ascertain it? Their sikence cannot be interpreted into acquiescence. It was not necessary
for them to interpose, in order to prevent that,
which, without their consent, would be a mere
nullity. If they had actually interposed by an
express prohibition, in the most solemn form, it
could not make the compact more void than it
was before. Being a nullity, from an inherent
defect in its original formation, it could not be
made more so, by any extraneous act. Never
having existed, its existence could not be destroyed by any conceivable power whatever. Indeed, to set up the doctrine, that Congress can
tacitly acquiesce in agreements, unconstitutionally
made between the States, would be of most dangerous and fatal consequences. It would sanction
whatever agreements the several States might
choose to make with each other, and introduce
chaos into the confederacy, by engagements between its different members, inconsistent with
VoL.

Viii.

6

1823.
Greew

v.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

each other, and conflicting with the duties they all
owe to the Union. All the analogies of the con.v. stitution are against such a doctrine. Various
Biddle. prohibitions of the 'exercise of different powers by
the States, without the consent of Congress, are
contained in the constitution. Thus, they are prohi.bited, without that consent, from laying imposts
or duties on imports or exports, except such as
are necessary for executing the inspection laws;
or any tonnage duty; and from keeping troops or
ships in time of peace; and from engaging in war,
unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay. These prohibitiois are all connected in the same clause with the
prohibition against their making contracts with
each other. Yet, surely, it cannot be pretended,
that in all these cases the consent of Congress.
can be inferred from its silence. It is true, that
the consent of Congress to such acts, has not always been asked by the States. But it was their
duty to have asked it;. and the acts are mere nullities unless the consent be obtained.
2. If the supposed compact is to be interpreted
to restrain the State of Kentucky from. passing
the laws in question,-'*uch restraint would be -unconstitutional.
It is.incontestabl6 that there are some attributes
of sovereignty, of which a State cannot be deprived, even with the concurrence of Congress
and the State itself. ,The true theory of our government is, ..that of perfect 'equality among the
bembers of tl~e Union:' Whatever sovereign
powers one.-has, each and.all have. A State may

41

OF TREZ UNITED STATES.

refuse to allow another *Stateto be carved-out of
its territory; but if it consents to.the formation of
a new State, such new State becomes invested
with all the sovereign attributes of every old one.
Congress may refuse to admit a new State; but if
it admits it, the State stands in the Union, freed
an&'liberated from every condition which would
degrade it below its coinpeers. Whatever one
State can do, all caw do. The pressure of. the
whole on all the parts, is equal, and all the parts
are equal to.each other. This implied-prohibition
extends to every coripact, in every form, by which
a State attbmpts to deprive itself of itg sovereigh
faculties.. The sovereignty of a State cannotexist
without a territorial domain upon which it is to
act: and there can be-no other restrictionsupon its
action-within its own territory, but what is to- be
found in its own constitution, or in. the national
constitution. Of all the attributes of sovereignty,
none is -more indisputable than that of its
action upon its: own territoty.. If that -territory
happens to be in a waste and. wilderness statej it
may pais laws to reclaim it; to encourage its population; to promote cultivation; to increase production. That any-of the old States can pass
such laws, is incontestable; and if they may rightfully do it, then Kentucky 'ay d6 the same.
If then there be no 'compact constitutionally
made, -and could have been none,- with the power
of restricting the State legislature from passing
the laws in question, there is no fundamedtal rule,
with the violation of which they stand chrgeable.
-

1823.
V.

Biddl

CASES ]N THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v
"Green

V.

idde.

But it may be said, that this rule is incorporated
into the State constitution.

To this it is answered, that the incorporation of
the supposed compact into the State constitution,
did not make it a compact, if otherwise it wanted
the requisite sanctions under the Federal constitution. If it were inserted upon the mistaken
supposition of its being a binding contract, does
the insertion produce any effect? Is it not to be
considered as the insertion of that which, being
before void, remains null, notwithstanding the insertion? That it is not made a compact by the
insertion, is clear: for the prohibition upon the
States, to contract or agree, without the consent
of Congress, is a prohibition to contract or agree
in any form, constitutional or otherwise.
But, although it has not the properties of a
compact, it may possibly be contended that it is
nevertheless a part of the constitution of Kentucky, and, therefore, binding upon the legislature of the State. The convention of Kentucky
proceeded upon the notion that it was a compact.
If in that they were mistaken, ought it to be
treated in a character which was never intended?
Can it be treated in that character? There are
reciprocal provisions in it. Supposing it to be no
compact, those stipulations on the part of Virginia, which formed the consideration of stipulations
on the part of Kentucky, would not be binding
on Virginia. It would, therebre, be most unjust
to hold Kentucky bound for grants, the equivalents
for-which she cannot enforce. If one party is not
bound, the other ought to be deemed free: and

OF THE UNITED STA'ITES.

the incorporation of the compact into the constitution of Kentucky, ought to be considered as
proceeding upon the erroneous supposition. It
was the compact, emphatically, that was made a
part of the constitution. If there were no compact, nothing was inserted: or it was the will of
one purty, expressed in the most solemn form, to
which there was wanting the will of the other, or
the federal sanction, to make it a compact. If,
notwithstanding the freedom of Virginia from any
obligations, Kentucky is to be regarded as bound
by her separate constitutional act, then the question is, what did she intend by that act? Who is
to expound it? Are we to look for the meaning
of the constitution of a State within the State itself, or are we to look abroad for foreign interpreters? It need not be denied, that in case of an
appeal to the Federal tribunals, by citizens of
other States, against the acts of local legislation,
upon the ground of repugnance to the State constitutions, they may pronounce on that repugnancy.
But it must be a clear case of. repugnancy to justify them in annulling the State law. And after
all the departments of a State government had
united in giving an exposition to its constitution,
which had been uniformlv acted on for a series of
years, and become a rule of property, this Court
would solemnly pause before it overturned such a
construction. This Court, in Bodley v. Taylor,
determined, that it would follow the decisions of
one department only (the judiciary) in respect to
a 5 Criy rPn Rep. 22

1823.
Grewn

V.
Biddle.

CAS1VS EN THE SUPREME COURT

the land laws of Virginia, although it intimated
the ground
&e. on which this determination justly pioceeds, is a
V.
-Biddle. regard to the peace of society, a respect for. the
rights of property,. and the preventioh of those
disorders which would flow from opposite and conflicting rules.
The convention, by inserting the declaration in
the constitution, that the compact was to be considered as a part of it, could not have intended
to prevent the passage of the laws for the benefit
of the occupying claimants, because the first of
those laws preceded the formation of the last
constitution. The State Court of.last resort has
affirmdd the consistency of the law with the. compact; and, consequently, its consistency with the
constitution." Thus, we have the deliberate
adoption of that system by the legislative authority, almost cotemporaneously, with the date of the
compact; the formation of the present onstitution, without disapproving of that system ; and an
adherence'to it by the legislative authority, for a
long serks of years, during which it has reviewed
it, expressly adhered to its principle, and given it
a more expansive effect.
3. If the compact is to be treated as one made
with all necessary solemnities, the jurisdiction of

'----'

strong doubts of their correctness.

.i.q

r-urt cannot attach until the party charged

with -a violation of it has refused td constitute the
.ribunal of the compact.
The eighth article of the compact provides for
a 4 Bibb'8 Rep. 52.

OF THE UNITED STArES.

a special tribunal.

That provision is as much a

part of the compact as any other.

It is admitted, \-i

1823.
'

that rights, which existed prior to and independent
V.
of the compact, cannot be affected by the deci- Tdd
sions of that tribunal. But whatever rights spring
out of the compact, originate with it, and are liable
to be affected by it. They rest, coupled witl all
the conditions which the enactment that gave
them birth has imposed upon them. If the party
complained of for violating the compact had refused to co-operate in the constitution of the tribunal of the compact, then the jurisdiction of this
Court might attach under that branch *of the distribution of judicial power which gives it cognizance of controversies between the States; (if Congress had made provision for giving effect to that
part of the constitution;) or perhaps the Court
might, in such case, exercise jurisdiction -as between the individuals interested. If there be
cause of complaint, it is by Virginia against Ken-,
tucky. But Virginii has never (until recently)
complained: "she has acquiesced : and Kentuchy,
so far from refusing to create the tribunal of the
compact, has offered to refer to it this very matter.
It will probably be contended, that this provision is like the ordinary stipulation in iolicips of
insurance, and other contracts. for referring to
arbitration, which has never been held to exclude'
the jurisdiction of the ordinary Courts of the land.
But the grouxid on which the Courts of' Westminster have assumed jurisdiction in such cases is

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that of their transcendent authority.a If it were
~ res integra,there would certainly be great reason
Greel
v.
to contend, that, in these cases, the forum domesRiddle. ticum stipulated for by the parties ought to have
1823.

exclusive jurisdiction. But, be this as it may, there
is this plain distinction, that the Courts of Westminster Hall have a general jurisdiction over the
realm, whilst this Court is one of limited jurisdiction, having special cognizance of a few classes of
cases only. So far as that jurisdiction results
from the will of the States, who are parties to the
compact, it must be taken with the restrictions
which that will imposes. The parties, in effect,
say,--" We make such a contract; if we differ
about its interpretation, or execution, we will constitute a special tribunal to decide that, difference."
Congress might indeed give you jurisdiction over
the compact, by providing a mode in which your
constitutional jurisdiction over con troversies between the States shall be exercised. But all
jurisdiction over sovereign States, (however derived,) is limited by the very nature of things.
Suppose this were a foreign treaty, and provided
for a reference to the arbitration of a foreign sovereign, would you take jurisdiction in that case ?
Supposing, however, that the Court should feel
itself compelled to take cognizance of the present
cause, as being a private controversy between citizens of different States, it will exercise its power
with the most deliberate caution. This Court is
invested with the most important trust that was
a 2 Mra rsh. Ins. 67'9.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ever possessed by any tribunal for the benefit of 1823.
mankind. The political problem is to be solved Oreen
iA America, whether written constitutions of goV.
vernment can exist. They certainly cannot exist Biddle.
without a depositary somewhere of the power to
pronounce upon the conformity of the acts of the
delegated authority to the fundamental law. This
Court is that depositary, and I know not of any
better. But the success of this experiment, so interesting to all that is dear to the interests of human nature, depends upon the prudence with
'which this high trust is executed.
4. The compact, supposing it to be valid and
binding, does not prohibit the passage of these
laws.
The mode by which private individuals could
acquire a part of the public domain in Virginia,
as prescribed.by the act of 1748, was by a survey,
accompanied with certain specified improvements.a
If not settled within three years, the grant was
forfeited, without any formal proceeding to repeal
the patent. In 1779 commenced the calamitous system under which Kentucky now suffers. In order to
raise a revenue, and provide for the defence of the
frontier, the previous survey was dispensed with;
and hence the conflicting claims, which now cover
the whole surface of the country. At the period
of the separation of the two States, the titles acquired under the law of 1779 were incomplete,
and in every stage of progression, from the entry
a LeigA's Rev. Jrg. Laws, 333.

VoL. VIL

7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.

Biddle.

to the. patent. Virginia was about to part with
sovereignty; that is, with the power of consummating the titles and fulfilling her engagements. If she made no provision; if she obtained

Sthe

no guarantee, for the complete execution of her
engagements; if she exposed those, who had acquired the right to, or interests in, land from her,
to the uncontrolled action of the new sovereignty,
she might jusily be reproached with infidelity to
her engagenients. Faithful to these, the stipulation in.question was inserted. The object, and
the ,only object of it, was to notify the new State
that it must not abuse its power to -the detriment
of persons claiming under Virginia, and to proclaim to those. persons her parental attention to
their interests. It was to announce to them, and
to.the new State, that their titles were to remain
vlid and secure under the new sovereign. It was
a devolution upon the new sovereign of all the
duties towards' them of the old sovereign, and
nothing mores It was to bind the new State as
far as Virginii. was bound, but ioleave it as free
as she woiild'have been had there been no separation. Virginia c6uld .have had no imaginable
motiveto prevent the new State from exercising
all the 'actustomed rights of sovereignty. On the
'contrary, .she,displayed a solicitude for the admission of the new State into the Union, making it a
condition of its independence. In conformity
with this view is the .language.of the third article:
It provides, " that all private rights and interests
of lands, ivithin the said district, derived- from
the laws of Virginia, prior to 'suh sepaatia n,.

OF THE U-NITED STATES.

shall remain valid and secure under the laws of

1823.

the proposed State, and shall. be determined by

Green

the laws now existing in this State." If the re4son for using the terms " rights and interests," be
attended to, it 'ill be. seen, that it is a guarantee
for the security of the title, and nothing but the
title. It is no restriction up'on the new sovereignty as to *any public 'policy which it might
think.fit to adopt. All the parts of -the compact
are to be taken 'together, and ohie' article may
serve to expound' another, where there is ambiguity. What is meant by the third, may be ascertained by the fourth condition, That is a clear
recognition of the right of the new State to enforce cultivation .or improvement, by forfeiture
or. other penalty. It expressly recognises the right
to exercise that power -forthwith as to citizens;
and, as to .non-residents, merely leaves a reasonable time (six years) .to enable them to settle and
improve. It admits the right of the State to effect
the object by forfeiture or other penalty. If the
parties to the compact had intended, by a provision. for the security of the title, to exclJe the
legislative authority from acting at all upo. the
subject, would they'hive left that subject exposed
-to the most formidable actibn of the s-overuign.
poWer, ty'forfeiture or o'her penalty ?
The Courts of Kentucky, the people of Kentucky; the legislature of Kentucky, have all proceeded upon the principle of.the perfect validity
of the titles derived from. the laws of Virginia.
Every body is interesteal in the pieservation of
lose titles. The legislative system of Kentucky

v.
Biddle,

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COLRT

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

does not begin to act until the system of Virginia
has had its complete effect. After the decision
upon the title, and after it has been pronounced
valid; after the terms of the compact are comp etely fulfilledi the laws of Kentucky commence
their operation. When they do operate, it is not
upon the title, but upon the subject. It is not on
account of any defect in the title, that they operate
at all. They spring from those considerations of
policy which sovereign State has a right to weigh
and give effect to. The title is admitted; but
from other causes dehors the title, the owner of it
is not compelled to pay for the title, nor for the
land, which he had a right to only in its native
State: but he is compelled (on grounds of public policy) to pay for something which is not inlierent in the title, which does not naturally belong
to the land. If this be not according to the true
interpretation of the compact, then the erection of
Kentucky into an independent State was a solemn mockery. It was a grant of the sovereignty,
without a capacity to exercise it; and a transfer
of the sovereign power of Virginia to the new
State, with a prohibition to the exercise of any
sovereign power. If the compact restrains her
from legislating on the subject to this extent, it
goes a great deal further, and exempts the subject entirely from her legislative jurisdiction. She
could not tax the lands of non-residents; nor subject the land to the payment of debts in any novel
manner; nor make a new law of descents ; por
establish a ferry; nor lay out a road; nor build a
town. In short, she can exert no sovereign power

OF 'THE UNITED STATES.

whatever over the subject. For if those conside- 1823.
rations of public policy, which led her to adopt SGreen
the system of compensation to the bone fide ocv.
bupant, cannot prevail, neither could similar con- Biddle.
siderations in any other case prevail to authorize
her legislative interference. The Virginia code,
of 1789, must immutably govern the territory.
But it may be said, that the words of the third
article must mean something more than a mere
security of the title, according to the laws under
which it is derived; otherwise, the insertion of
the article was utterly useless, since it would
create no obligation other than what would exist
without it. The answer to this is, that the necessity of such a stipulation grew out of the very extraordinary state of land titles in Kentucky. Even,
however, if this reason had not existed, instances
might be cited, without number, of similar precautions in international pacts and treaties. Such
are, among others, the cession by Virginia of her
western territory to Congress, which contains a
confirmation to the settlers of Kaskaskias, Vimcennes, &c. of their possessions and titles; the
Louisiana treaty; and the Florida treaty, all of
which contain similar confirmations.
It may, however, be urged, that the rights and
interests in land, as derived from the laws of Virginia, cannot be valid and secure, if these acts
have their effect: that there would be a nominal
compliance with the compact, but a real violation
of it.
If the laws operated on the title; if they obstructed or defeated it, the argument would in-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\'bsame

v.
Biddle.

deed. 'have weight. It would, however, at the
lime, .be,equally applicable to a case of forfeiture for non-settlement or non-cultivation; for
in'that case, too, it might be said, that you admit
the title, but forfeit the land. So,-in all other cases
where the State exercises its right of eminent domain, it might be said that the title was acknowledged, but the land taken away. The ground on
which the laws repose, is not that o"any inherent
taint or. defect in the title. It is one of policy,
founded on the peculiar condition of the country;
the multitude of dormant claims to the same land;
the non-assertion of their titles by adverse claimants; and the necessity of encouraging improvement. The decisions of this Court conform to
these principles of interpretation. In Wilson v.
Mason," the Court says, " It must be considdrbd
as providing for the preservation of titles, not for
the tribunals which should decide on -thosetitles."
The laws are of universal and impartial application. They apply as well between citizens of the
State, as between them and .non-residents. Such
an application of them was considered by the
Court, in Taylor'v. Bodley,b as a conclusive test
,of their validity.
5.1 If the compact limited the action of the new
sovereignty to the situation of the Virginia laws
respecting real property, in all cases whatever, at
the pieriod of the separation; still, it is insisted,
that the jrinciple on which the occupying claimant laws are founded, had been iecognised by that
a 1 Cranch'sRep. 45. 91.

b 5 Cranh6 Rep.' 223.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

State, and was then in force, and that Kentucky 1823.
had a right to constitute the tribunals which should Green
v.
execute it, and to direct its application. That the
whole subject of remedy devolved on the new Biddle.
State, is too clear a proposition to be contested.
It might refuse to 6siablish Courts of justice at all.
It might adopt the civil law or the Napoleon code.
It might abolish the Court ofChancery. In Wilson v. Masma this doctrine was substantially held.
The principle of the acts in questiop, was first
adopted by a law of the colony of Virginia, enacted in 1643.' It seems that this law never was repealed; and ty it, even the occupant, without colour-of tide, was exempted from the payment of
rents on eviction. But on general principles of
law and equity, iuch as they have been recognised
in every system of jurisprudence which has prevailed among civilized nations, the -meliorations
by a bon ftde possessor are to be paid for 'on
eviction by the .true.owner; and such possessor is
also exempt from responsibility for rents and profits.c

The whole law of prescription proceeds by

the same analogy. Soitthll v. MlKean," is an
adjudication on that principle, posterior to the separation, in a case occurring prior to it. Lowther
v. The Commonwealth,, proceeded on the same
ground; and the case of a party claiming under
the-State, is much stronger than if he claimed dnder a private individual. The -principle,then, being
a 1 Cranch'8Rep. 45.91.
b 1 Henn.Dig. LL. Virg. Pref.15.
c Kaime' Prin. Eq. 26-28. 189.

d 1 Waih. Rep. 336.

e 1 Henn. 4,Munf. Rep. 201.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
Green

v.

Biddle.

in existence in the parent State, it was competent
to the new State to modify it, and direct its application. The cases are numerous where a principle
originally applied by Courts of equity, is adopted
by the legislature, and being incorporated into a
statute, is enforced by the Courts of law as a legal
rule. Such are the cases of set-off, of penal
bonds, and. the remedy of creditors against devisees.
6. At all events, the laWs are not wholly repugnant to the compact, in their application to every
species of action or suit; and the Court will discriminate between the void and the valid provisions. The two laws provide, in substance,
(1.) That there shall be no allowance of rents
and profits, prior to notice. (2.) A definition of
what shall be considered as notice. By the act of
1797, it is the commencement of a suit, or the delivery of a certified copy of the record on which
the party claims, and the bringing a suit within a
year. By the act of 1812, it is the rendering a
judgment or decree. (3.) That the occupant shall
be paid for all valuable and lasting improvements,
subject, by the act of 1797, to the restriction, that
the value of such improvements after notice, shall
not exceed the amount of the rents and profits after
notice. (4.) That the occupant shall be chargeable with all waste or damage committed on the
land. (5.) That he shall hold possession until
the balance due to him is secured or paid. (6.)
That a sworn Board of Commissioners shall liquidate.the account between the parties. (7.) The
right of election given by the act of 1812.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Are all, and if not all, which of these principles
contrary to the compact ? Is the repugnancy
in the principles adopted, or the mode of executing
them? As to what is that notice which shall convert a bow fidei into a mala fidei possession, it
is so uncertain in itself, that it cannot be denied
that the legislature has a right to establish a rule
of positive institution on that subject. As to the
remedy, it may certainly change the form of action,
and the proceedings in any action; or convert an
equitable into a legal right, with its appropriate
legal remedy. Or it may forfeit the whole property, for no'n-cultivation or non-improvement.
This Cburt is not a mere Court of justice applying ordinary laws. It is -a political tribunal, and
may look to political considerations and consequences. If there be doubt, ought the settled policy of a State, and its rules of property, to be disturbed ? The protection of property should extend as well to one subject as to another: tW that
which results from improvements, made under the
faith of titles emanating from the government,
as to a proprietary interest in the soil, derived
from the same source. It extends to literary
property, the fruit of mental labour. Here is
a confusion of the proprietary interest in the
land, with the accession to its value, from the
industry of man fairly bestowed upon it.- The
wisdom of the legislator is tasked to separate the
two, and do exact justice to the claimants of each.
The laws now in question aie founded upon that
great law of nature, which secure&the right resulting from occupation and bodily labour. The laws
Voy. VIM

8

1823.
V.
Biddk.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

of society are but modifications of that superior

Slaw. If there be doubt respecting their validity,
GreenV. considerations of convenience and utility ought to
Biddle. prevail, in a case where the settled order of a

great people would be disturbed. Conquerors
themselves respect the religion, the laws, the property of the vanquished: and surely this Court
will respect those rules of property which had
their origin in early colonial times, which were
adopted by the parent State, and have been so
long acquiesced in and confirmed by inveterate
habit and usage among the people where they
prevail.
Mr. B. Hardin, for the demandant, in reply,
stated, that the cause divided itself into the following questions:
1. What were the laws of Virginia respecting
a compensation for ameliorations by a bona fidei
possessor, (for no other could be entitled,) and his
accountability for rents and profits, at the time
the compact was made?
2. Whether the consent of Congress was given
to the compact in the manner required by the constitution of the United States ?
3. What is the true exposition of the compact ?
4. The exposition of the legislative acts of
Kentucky, of 1797 and 1812, and an examination
of the question, how far they depart from the
laws of Virginia on the same subject matter existing in 1789?
5. Whether this Court has jurisdiction over the
cause, and power to declare the acts of Kentucky
null and void, as being repugnant to the compact,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and the constitution. of the United States; and

1823.

whether it will exercise that jurisdiction and power

Green

in the present case ?
1. The laws of Virginia, respecting this matter,
in force at the time of the compact, could only
consist of such parts of the common law of England
as had been adopted in that State; of the system
of.equity, and the principles of the civil law, applicable to the question; or, of the then existing
local statutes respecting it.
The rule of the common law, as to the action
for mesne profits, is well ascertained to be, that
the plaintiff is entitled to the mesne profits from
the time of the demise laid in the declaration
in ejectment, and that the tenant cannot set
off his improvements made upon the land.a At
law, then, the occupant was not entitled to compensation for his meliorations : and in equity, the
universal rule is, that the rents and profits are to
)e accounted for; though, under some circum3tances, the bona fidei occupant will be allowed
to deduct the value of his improvements, i. e. of
the increased value of the land. But, both by
the chancery rule, and that of the civil law, the
bona ftdes of his possession ceases the moment
he has notice of the adverse better title. In the
case cited on the other side, of Southzall v.
M"Kean,c the Court of Appeals of Virginia did
not mean to impugn the rule uniformly applied by
the English Court of Chancery. It went on the
a 1 Rtmnington's Eject. 437, 438.
6 1 Madd. Chlanc. 73,74.
c I Ma.Th. Rep. 336.

V.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
"do
Green

V.

Riddle,.

ordinary ground, that he who will have equity must
equity: and that if a party purchases land, with

notice of another's equitable title, but that other
lies by, and neglects to assert his right for a long
time, during which, valuable improvements are
made, the purchaser ought not, in equity, to lose
these improvements. Still less does the case of
Lowther v. The Commonwealtha impugn the rule.
It decides nothing more than that where land is
sold with warranty, and the vendee is evicted, he
shall recover of the vendor, not the value of the
land at the time of eviction, but the purchase moneys, with interest.
2. The consent of Congress was given to the
compact between Virginia and Kentucky, in the
xnanner required by the constitution of the United
States. No particular form of words is necessary
to signify this assent. Congress had the compact
before them, and have agreed to the agreement
for the formation of the new State, and its admission into the Union. The State Courts have repeatedly and constantly recognised the validity of
the compact :' and if this Court were now to determine it to be void, Kentucky would be compelled to recede the whole country south of Green
River, which was one of the equivalents she received for the stipulations on her part. The compact is also recognised as valid and binding by
the sovereign authority of the people of Kentucky,
a 1 Henn. 8 Munf. Rep. 201.
b 1 MarshalPsKentucky Rep. 199. Brown v. M'Murray) MS.
decision of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

being incorporated into the State constitution, 182,,
and thus made a part of their fundamental law.
Green
3. As to the interpretation of the compact, (supV.
Biddle.
corbe
side
other
the
on
that
if
valid,)
it
posing
rect, the compact is merely declaratory of the
public law as applicable to the case. It is a well
established principle, that changes of sovereignty
work no change in the rights of property in the
soil; and this applies even to such rights acquired
by governments de facto, established by violence,
against legal right. The stipulations inserted in
the treaties, and other public pacts, referred to on
the other side, are merely in affirmation of this
principle of universal law. Such is the stipulation in the third article of the Louisiana treaty,
tht " the inhabitants of the ceded territory shall
be 7maintained and protected in the free enjoymeat of their liberty, property, and the religion
they profess." Such a general provision must be
considered as merely declarato.ry of what the
high contracting parties understood and admitted
to be the law of nations, as to the effect of a change
of sovereignty on proprietary interests of private
individuals. But how much broader and stronger
is the provision in the compact, that " all rights
and interests of land derived from the laws of this
State, (i. e. Virginia,) shall remain valid and secure, and shall be determined by the laws now
existing in this State." It -must surely have been
meant to protect, not merely the naked title, but
the beneficial enjoyment of the interest in the
land. The public law of the world, and the constitution of the United States, would have been

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
"private

Green

V.

Biddle.

sufficient to protect the mere naked title.- " ALL
rights and interests," legal and equitable,

were to " remain valid and secure." The term
valid is applicable to rights, and the term secure
to interests, and both to each. But the provision
does not stop here. These "rights and interests"
are to be "determined by the laws now existing
in this State." Most certainly this was not intended to prevent Kentucky from making general
regulations on the subject of real property, and
the remedies applicable to it, so far as they make
a part of the lex firi. But she stipulates, that
she will not affect injuriously " private rights and
interests," of land derived under the laws of Vircinia, i. e. the beneficial proprietary interest in
land. The MS. case of Brown v. I ' '1rray,
shows that this exposition has been given to the
compact by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
So, also, the Circuit Court in that District has. determined that the act of Assembly of Kentucky,
of 1814 ,b which alters the statute of limitations of
1808, as to real actions,' by taking away the proviso in favour of non-residents, is void, as being
repugnant to the compact, not merely as an alteration of the remedy, but as rendering invalid and
insecure the rights and interests of land derived
under the laws of Virginia.
As to the objections made on the other side to
our interpretation of the compact, that it impugns
a Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch's Rep. 143.
JOHNSON.

b 5 LitteL LL. of Kentucky, 91.
c 4 LitteL LL. qf Kentucky. 56.

Per Mr. Justice

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the right to the pursuit of happiness, which is in- 1823.
herent in every society of men, and is inompati- Green
ble with these unalienable rights of sovereignty
v.
and of self-government, which every independent Biddle.
State must possess, the answer -is obvious: that
no people has a right to pursue its own happiness
to the injury of others, for whose protection solemn compacts, like the plesent, have been made.
It is a trite maxim, that man gives up a part of his
natural liberty when he enters into civil society,
as the price of the blessings of that state : and it,
may be said, with truth, this liberty is well exchanged for the advantages which flow from law
and justice. The sovereignty of Kentucky will
not be impaired by a faithful observance of this
compact in its true spirit. It does not prevent her
from making any general regulations of police
and revenue, which any other State may make;
but it does prevent her from confiscating the property of individuals under the pretext of a mere
modification of the law as to improvements made
by occupying claimants. There can be no doubt
that sovereign States may make pacts with each
other, limiting and restraining their rights of sovereignt as to proprietary interests in the soil.
Such conventions are not inconsistent with the
eminent domain which the law *of nations attributes to them. Here the sole object of the compact is perpetually to secure the vested rights of
private individuals from violation by legislative
acts. It is in furtherance of the most sacred duty
which society owes to its members. And even if
it stipilated a special restraint upon the legisla-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. tive power, in respect to the public revenue, it
would not be the less obligatory. All the new
Green
V.
States, on their admission into the Union, uniformBiddle. ly bind themselves not to tax the lands of the
United States. Various other restraints upon their
sovereign powers have been voluntarily consented
to by the States : such, for example,, as that contained in the act for the admission of Louisiana
into the Union, which provides that all the legislative proceedings shall be conducted in the
English language.
But this compact, so far from interfering with
the revenue of Kentucky, plainly recognises her
right to tax the lauds : and if it did not, it is clear
'that she might exercise the right, since she could
not exist nor support her civil government without a revenue. The means involve the end; and
therefore she may not only tax, but sell the lands
to enforce payment. Nor is there any thing in
the compact interfering with the legislative authority of the State, to regulate the course of descents, or the liability of real estates for the payment of debts. An alteration of the law of descents does not affect the right, title, or interest in
land, as derived from the laws in force at the
epoch of the compact: unless, indeed, the new
law of descents be retrospective i .its operation.
Nor is it denied, tiat the remedies in the Courts
of law and equity, the lex fori, may be modified,
as the wisdom of the legislature shall deem expedient. The forms of action, real. ad possessory,
may be -changed; the remedy, whether legal or
equitable, may be adapted to the purposes of jus-

OF THE UNITED STAT4E.

tice; .ne period of limitation, and the mode of 1823.
execution; all these may be modified and altered,
Y.
according to the fluctuating wants of society, provided they do not have an unjust retrospective Biale.
operation upon vested rights. All these changes
in the civil legislation of the State may be made,
and the titles to land, as acquired under the laws
of Virginia, will still remain unimpaired.
4. A fair exposition of the legislaive acts of
1797 and 1812, will show that they operate to invalidate the rights and-interests of land, derived
under the laws of Virginia.
And first, as to the law of 1812. It was intended for the protection of any person "peaceably seating or improving any vacant land, supposing it to be his own in law or equity." The
land, not being occupied by the true owner, it is
not necessary (under this law) that the party occupying it should bo~,z. fide and honestly believe
it to be his own property : but only that he should
believe it to be so from the circumstance of his
"having a conneeted title." The law supplies
him with his ground of belief, or rather it substitutes a fact .n the place of his belief. The State
Courts, whose peculiar province it is to interpret
the local law, have expressly determined, that tho
words " supposing them to be his own," &c. are
satisfied if the party had that foundation for hie
supposition. NO matter how much rnala fides
there may be, if the possession was vacant, and he
can deduce a connected paper title. This interpretation goes far beyond the ancient Chancery
rule, and therefore the statute goes beyond the
Vot, VIIL

9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

principle of that rule. Beside.s, the rule of equity
only pays the occupant for the increased value of
the land : not for " improvements," (in the sense
which local usage has given to that word, as indicating any fixtures annexed to the freehold,) but
only for actual ameliorations in the value of the
land. The statute, on the contrary, compensates
him for accessions to the property, which are
really deteriorations instead of ameliorations of its
value to the real owner. The terms used- by the
legislature--" the charge and value of seating and
improving," shows evidently that it meant to transcend the rule of equity, which, according to Lord
Kaimes, goes to make compensation for ameliorations only. The whole discussion in the legislature turned on these emphatic words, " charge
and value ;" and various amendments were proposed to strike them out of the bill, and to proceed
on the true chancery principle of taking a fair account between the parties, of rents and profits on
the one side, and the actual amelioration of the
property on the other.
5. The law in question is both a violation of
the compact and the national and State constitutions; and the Court will declare it void.
It is void by its retrospective operation, in giving
compensation for work and labour antecedent to
the epoch of the compact of 1789, and even back
to the first settlement of the country; and that, too,
whether this work and labour bestowed upon the
land actually deteriorated or ameliorated its value.
It may be admitted, that it is not an ex post facto
law in the sense of the constitutional prohibition,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as that is only applied to penal matters. But,
upon general principles, all retrospective laws,
whether civil or criminal, are unjust, and contrary
to the fundamental maxims of universal jurisprudence. The nature of the social state, and of civil
government itself, prescribe some limits to the
legislative power, independent of the express provisions of a written constitution.a What is a retrospective law, has been well defined by one of
the learned judges of this Court, and it is a definition which admits of an accurate and practical application. " Upon principle, every statute, which
takes away or impairs vested rights acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability, in
respect to transactions already past, must be
deemed retrospective." 'b There is something in
the very nature of all just legislation, which prevents its being retrospective. It necessarily deals
with future, and not with past transactions.o
The statute now in question is retrospective in
releasing rights of action already vested. By the
pre-existing local law, the successful claimant was
entitled to recover the mesne profits even in a real
action. But this act deprives him of this right, as
to rents and profits previously acquired, and even
antecedent to the compact itself; and repeals the
saving clause in the former act as to infants, &c.
It is, in effect, a law releasing A. from the right of
action which B. has against him.
a Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch's Rep. 135.
6 Per Mr. Justice STwaY.

R4p. 139.
c 4 Wksc.

Society, &c. v. Wheeler, 2 GaMk.

ft. 578. Note a.

1823.
Green
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\the

Green

v.

Biddle.

But even considered as a prospective enactment
law operates unjustly and oppressively, because the lawful owner is compelled to pay, not
merely for the actual ameliorations in the land,
not its increased value only; but the expense incurred by the occupant in making pretended improvements, whether they are merely useful, or
fanciful, and matter of taste and ornament only,
dictated by his whim and caprice. He is not even
liable for waste, unless committed after suit brought;
and may destroy the timber, constituting, perhaps,
the sole value of the land, without being called to
any account.
If the law be partly constitutional, and partly
not, the whole must fall; and there can be no
doubt, that the character of the parties, as being
citizens of different States, gives the Court cognizance of the cause, and jurisdiction to pronounce
the law a nullity. If you have jurisdiction, you
must decide according to law. But you cannot so
decide, without looking to see whether the acts of
the State legislature are repugnant to the State
constitution. This repugnancy has been frequently made the ground of decision in the Federal
Courts, where the character of the parties gave
them jurisdiction of the cause.a
But the acts are clearly void, as being repugnant
to the constitution of the United States. They
are laws impairing the obligation of contracts,
within the spirit of all the decisions of this Court,
according to which, it is immaterial whether the
a Society, &c. v. Wheeler. 2 Gallis. Rep. 105.

OF THE UNITED S'TATES.

sovereign States of the Union are parties to the
contract, or whether- it is made between private individuals.5 The special tribunal provided by the
compact, cannot oust the transcendent jurisdiction
of this Court. Even according to the maxims of
private jurisprudence, an agreement to submit to
arbitration cannot be pleaded in bar, without an
award actually made; and this must apply in a
ease wnere the agreement, though made by the
high contracting parties, was intended exclusively
for the .benefit of private individuals, and for the
protection of private rights.

1823.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court. In the examination of the' fiist
question stated by the Court below, we are naturally led to the following inquiries: 1. Are the
rights and interests of lands lying in Kentucky,
derived from the laws of Virginia prior to the separation of Kentucky from that State, as valid
and secure under the above acts as they were
urder the laws of Virginia on the 18th of December, 1789? If they were not, then,
2dly. Is the Circuit Court, in which this cause
is depending, authorized to declare those acts, so
far as they are repugnant to the laws of Virginia,
existing at the above period, unconstitutional ?
The material provisions of the act of 1797, are
as follow:

Rb. 2L

a Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranc'eRep. 87. Ne -Jersey v. Wflsnu, 7 Crandi'sRep. 164. Terretv. Taylor9 Cranc''sRep.4&
Dartmoth College v. Woodward, 4 W eat. Rep. 518.

Green'

V.
Biddle.

18.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

1st. That the occupant of land, from which he is
evicted by better title, is, in all cases, excused
from the payment of rents and profits, accrued
prior to actual notice of the adverse title, provided
his possession in its inception was peaceable, and
he shows a plain and connected title, in law or
equity, deduced from some record.
2d. That the claimant is liable to a judgment
against him for all valuable and lasting improvements made on the land prior to actual notice
of the adverse title, after deducting from the
amount the damages which the land has sustained
by waste or deterioration of the soil by cultivation.
3d. As to improvements made, and rents and
profits accrued, after notice of the adverse title,
the amount of the one was to be deducted from
that of the other, and the balance was to be add4d to, or subtracted from the estimated value of
the improvements made before such notice, as the
nature of the case should require. But it was
provided by a subsequent clause, that '- no case
should the successful claimant be obliged to pay
for improvements made after notice, more than
what should be equal to the rents and profits.
4th. If the improvements exceed the value of
the land in its unimproved state, the claimant was
allowed the privilege of conveying the land to the
occupant, and receiving in return the assessed
value of it without the improvements, and thus to
protect himself against a judgment and execution
for the value of the improvements. If he should
decline doing this, he might recover possession of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

his land, but then he must-pay the estimated value
of the improvements, and lose also the rents and
profits accrued before notice of the claim. But to
entitle him to claim the value of the land, as above
mentioned, he must give bond and security to
warrant the title.
The act of 1812 contains the following provisions :-1. That the peaceable occupant of land,
who supposes it to belong to him, in virtue of some
legal or equitable title, founded on a record, is to
be paid by the successful claimant for his improvements. 2. But the claimant may avoid the payment of the value of such improvements, if he
please, by relinquishing his land to the occupant,
and be paid its estimated value in its unimproved
state; thusIf he elect to pay for the value of the improvements, he is to give bond and security to pay the
same, with interest, at different instalments. If he
fail to do this; or if the value of the improvements
exceed three fourths the value of the unimproved
land, an election is given to the occupant to have
a judgment entered against the claimant for the
assessed value of the improvements, or to take the
land, giving bond and security to pay the assessed
value of the land, if unimproved, with interest.
and by instalments.
But if the claimant is not willing to pay for
the improvements, and they should exceed three
fourths the value of the unimproved land, the occupant is obliged to give bond and security to pay
the assessed value of the land, with interest, which,
if he fail to do, judgment is to be entered against

1823.
V.

Biddle.

72

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182 .
Green

v.

Biddle.

him for such value; the claimant releasing his right
the land, and giving bond and security to warrant the title.
If the value of the improvements does not ex-

Sto

ceed three fourths that of the land, then the
occupant is not bound (as he is in the former case)
to give bond and security to pay the value of the
land, but he may claim a judgment for the value
of his improvements, or take the land;. giving
bond and security, as before mentioned, to pay
the estimated value of the land.
3. The exemption of the occupant from the
payment of the rents and profits, extends to all
such as accrued during his occupancy, before
judgment rendered against him in the first instance. But such as accrue after such judgment,
for a term not exceeding five years, as also waste
and damages committed by ihe occupant after
suit brought, are to be dedicted from the value of
the improvements; or the Court may render judgment for them against the occupant.
4. The amount of such rents and profits, damages and waste; also the value of the improvements, and of the land, clear of the improvements, are to be ascertained by Commissioners,
to be appointed by the Court, and who act on
oath.
These laws differ from each other only ib degree; in principle they are the same. They agree
in depriving the rightful owner of the land of the
rents and profits received by the occupant up to a
certain period, the first act fixing it to the time of
actual notice of the adverse claim, and the latter

OF THE UNITED STATE,

act to the time of the judgment rendered against
the occupant. They also agree in compelling the
successful claimant to pay, to a certain extent, the
assessed value of the improvements made on the
land by the occupant.
They differ in the following particulars:
1. By the former act, the improvements to be
paid for must be valuable and lasting. By the latter, they need not be either.
2. By the former, the successful claimant wa
entitled to a deduction from the value of the improvements for all damages sustained by the land,
by waste or deterioration of the soil by cultivation,
during.tke occupancy of the defendant. By the
latter, he is entitled to such a deduction only for
the damages and waste committed after suit
brought.
3. By the -former, the claimant was bound to
pay for such improvements only as were made
before notice of the. adverse title; if those made
afterwards should exceed the rents and profits
which afterwards accrued, then he was not liable
beyond the rents and profits for the value of such
improvements. By the latter, he is liable for the
value.of all. improvements made up to the time of
tMte jdgment, deducting only the rents and profits
accrued, and the damage and waste committed
after suit brought.
4. By the former, the claimant might, if he
pleased, protect himself against a judgment for
the valuie of the improvements, by surrendering
the land to his adversary, and giving bond and
security to warrant the title. But he was not
YO VM.
10

1825.
Gref

,.
Biddre

GAAES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

bound to do so, nor was his giving bond and secuto pay the value of the improvements, a pre-

Srity
Green

V.
Biddle.

requisite to his obtaining possession of his land,
nor was the judgment against him made a lien on

the land.
By the latter act, the claimant is bound to give
such bond, at the peril of losing his land ; for if he
fail to give it, the occupant is at liberty to keep
the land, upon giving bond and security to pay the
estimated value of it unimproved; and even this
he may avoid, where the value of the improvements exceeds three fourths that of the land, unless the claimant will convey to the occupant
his right to the land; for upon this condition
alone is judgment to be rendered against the occupant for the assessed value of the land.
The only remaining provision of these acts,
which is at all important, and is not comprised in
the above view of them, is the mode pointed out
for estimating the value of the land in its unimproved state, of the improvements, and of the
rents and profits; and this is the same, or nearly
so, in both: so that it may be safely affirmed, that
every part of the act of 1797 is within the purview of the act of 1812; and, consequently, the
former act was repealed by the repealing clause
contained in the latter.
In pursuing the first head of inquiry, therefore,
Common law
h
as to account-gvsrie
ability of va/ to which this case gives rise, the Court will con-

.cpd bomofine its observations to the act of 1812, and com.fidd possessor,
for ts.
pare its provisions with the law of Virginia, as it

existed on the 18th of December, 1789.
The common law of England was, at that pe-

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

riod, as it still is, the law of that State; and we

1823.

are informed by the highest authority, that a right

Green

to land, by that law, includes the right to enter on
it, when the possession is withheld from thd right
owner; to recover the possession by suit; to retain
the possession, and to receive the issues and profits arising from it. (Altlham's case, 8 Co. 299.) In
Lifords case, ( II Co. 46.) it is laid down, that the
regress of the disseisee revests the property in
him in the fruits or profits of the land, as well
those that were produced by the industry of the
occupant, as those which were the natural productiof of the land, not only against the disseisor
himself, but against his feoffee, lessee, or disseisor;
"for," says the book, "the act of my disseisor
may alter my action, but cannot take away my
action, property, or right; so that after the regressf,
the disseisee may seize these fruits, though removed from the land, and the only remedy of the
disseisor, in such case, is to recoup their value
against the claim of damages." The doctrine laid
down in this case, tlhat the disseisee can maintain
trespass only against the disseisor for the rents
and profits, is, with great reason, overruled in the
case of Holcomb v. Rawlyns, (Cro. Eliz. 540.)
(See also Bull. N. P. 87.)
Nothing, in short, can be more clear, upon principles of law and reason, than that a law which
denies to the owner of land a remedy to recoverthe possession of it, when withheld by any person,
however innocently he may have obtained it; or
to recover the profits received from it by the occuPant; or which clogs his recovery of such posses-

r.
biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPRE1TE COURT

1823.
\tending
Green

V.
Biddle.

sion and profits, by conditions and restrictions
to diminish the value and amount of the
thing recovered, impairs his right to, and interest
in, the property. If there be no remedy to recover
the possession, the law necessarily presumes a
want of right to it. If the remedy afforded be
qualified and restrained by conditions of any kind,
the right of the owner may indeed subsist, and be
acknowledged, but it is impaired, and rendered
insecure, according to the nature and extent of
such restrictions.
A right to land essentially implies a right to the
profits accruing from it, since, without the latter,
the former can be of no value. 'Thus, a devise of
the profits of land, or even a grant of them, will
pass a right to the land itself. (Shep. Touch. 93.
Co. Litt. 4 b.) " For what," says Lord Coke, in
this page, " is the land, but-the profits thereof."
Thus stood the common law in Virginia at the
period before mentioned ; and it is not pretended
that there was any statute of that State less favourable to the rights of those who derived title under
her than the common law. On the contrary, the
act respecting writs of right declares, in express
terms, that " if the demandant recover his seisin,
he may recover damages to be assessed by the
recognitors of assiize,for the tenant's withholding
possession of the tenement demanded ;" which
damages could be nothing-else but the rents and
profits of the land. (2 vol. Last Revisal, p. 463.)
This provision of the act was-rendered necessary
on account of the intended repeal of all the British
statutes, and the denial of damages by the corn-

OF THE UNITED STATES,

mon law in all real actions, except in assize, which 182.
was considered as a mixed action. (Co. Litt. 257.) Green
But in trespass quare clazsum fregit, idamages
V.
were always given at common law. (10 Co. 116.) Diddle.
And that the successful claimant of land in Virginia, who recovers in ejectment, was at all times
entitled to recover rents and profits in an action of trespass, was not, and could not, be questioned -by the counsel for the tenant in this case.
If, then, such was the common and statute law of tyRuoas oftoEqulacVirginia, in 1789, it only remains to inquire, whe- c-uimbLy
ther any principle of equity was recognised by the prof.
Courts of that State, which exempted the occupant of land from the payment of rents and profits
to the real owner, who has successfully established
his right to the land, either in a Court of law or of
Equity ? No decision of the Courts of that State
was cited, or is recollected, which in the remotest
degree sanctions such a principle.
The case of Southwl V. M'Kean, which was
much relied upon by the counsel for the tenant,
relates altogether to the subject of improvements,
and decides no more than this: that if the equitabt6#vner of land, whb is conusant of his right
to it, will stand by, and see another occupy and
impro*e the property, without asserting his right
to it, he *shall not, in equity, enrich himself by
the loss of another, which it was in his power to
have prevented, but must-be satisfied to recover
the .value of the land, independent of the improvements.- The acquiescence of the owner in
the adverse possessioh of a person who he found
engaged in making valuable improvements on the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

property, was little short of a fraud, and justified

. Green

the occupant in the conclusion, that the equitable
claim which the owner asserted, had been aban-

V.
Biddl.

doned. How different is the principle of this
case from that which governs the same subject by
the act under consideration. By this, the principle is applicable to all cases, whether at law or in
equity-whether the claimant knew or did not
know of his rights, and of the improvements
which were making on the land, and even after he
had asserted his right by suit.
The rule of the English Court of Chancery, as
laid down in 1 Madd. Chanc. 72. is fully supported
by the authorities to which he refers. It is, that
equity allows an account of rents and profits in all
cases, from the time of the title accrued, provided
that do not exceed six years, unless under special
circumstances; as where the defendant had no
notice of the plaintiff's title, nor had the deeds
and writings in his custody, in which the plaintiff's title appeared; or where there has been laches
in the plaintiff in not asserting his title ; or where
the plaintiff's title appeared by deeds in a stranger's custody; in all which cases, and others similar to them in principle, the account is confined to
the time of filing the bill. The language of Lord
Hardwicke, in Dormer v. Fortescue, (3 Atk. 128.)
which was the case of an infant plaintiff, is remarkably strong. "Nothing," he observes, "can
be clearer, both in law and equity, and from natural justice, than that the plaintiff is entitled to
the rents and profits from the time when his title
His lordship afterwards adds, that
accrued."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

"where the title of the plaintiff is purely equita- 1823.
ble, that Court allows the account of rents and Green
profits from the time the title accrued, unless unv.
der special circumstances, such as have been re- Biddle.
ferred to"
Rulelaw.of the
Nor is it understood by the Court, that the prin- C101l
ciples of the act under consideration can be vindicated by the doctrines of the civil law, admitting, which we do not, that those doctrines were
recognised by the laws of Virginia, or by the decisions of her Courts.
The exemption of the occupant, by that law.
from an account for profits, is strictly confined to
the case of a barn fidei possessor, who not only
supposes himself to be the true proprietor of the
land, but who is ignorant that his title is contested
by some other person claiming a better right to it.
Most unquestionably, this character cannot be
maintained, for a moment, after the occupant has
notice of an adverse claim, especially, if that be
followed up by a suit to recover the possession.
After this, he becomes a male fidei possessor, and
holds at his peril, and is liable to restore all the
mesne profits, together with the land. (Just. Lib.
2. tit. 1. s. 35.)
There is another material difference between
the civil law and the provisions of this act, altogether favourable to the right of the successfiul
claimant. By the former, the occupant is entitled
only to those fruits or profits of the land which
were produced by his own industry, and not even
to those, unless they were consumed ; if they were
realized, and contributed to enrich the occupant.

CAES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.
Biddu.

he is accountable for them to the real owner, as
is for all the natural fruits of the land. (See
Just. the sect. before quoted. Lord Kaimes,
B.
2. c. 1. p. 411. et seq.) Puffendorf, indeed, (B. 4.

She

c. 7. s. 3.) lays it down in broad and general terms,
that fruits of industry, as well as those of nature,
belong to him who is master of the thing from
which they flow.
By the act in question, the occupant is not accountable for profits, from whatever source they
may have been drawn, or however they may have
been employed, which were received by him prior
to the judgment of eviction.
But even these doctrines of the civil law, so
much more favourable to the rights of the true
owner of the land than the act under consideration, are not recognised by the common law of
England. Whoever takes and holds the possession of land to which another has a better title,
whether by disseisin, or under a grant from the
disseisor, is liable to the true owner for the profits
which he has received, of whatever nature they
may be, and whether consumed by him or not;
and the owner may even seize them, although
removed from the land, as has already been
shown by Liford's case.
We are not aware of any common law case
which recognises the distinction between a boniz
jide possessor, and one who holds mala fide, in
relation to-the subject of rents and profits; and
we understand Liford's case, as fully proving, that
the right of the true owner to the mesne profits, is
equally valid against both. How far this distinc-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion is noticed in a Court of equity has already
been shown.
Upon the -whole, then, we take it to be perfectly

clear, that, according to the common law, the statute law of Virginia, the principles of equity, and
even those of the civil law, the successfiul claimant of land is entitled to an account of the mesne
profits received by the occupant from some period
prior to the judgment of eviction, or decree. In
a real .action, as this is, no restriction whatever is
imposed by the law of Virginia upon the recognitors, in assessing the damages for the demandant, except that they should be commensurate
with the withholding of the possession.
If this act of Kentucky renders the rights of
claimants to lands, under Virginia, less valid and
secure than they-were under the laws of Virginia,
by depriving -them of the fruits of theii land, during its occupation by another, its provisions, in
regard to the value of the improvements put upon
the land by the occupant, can, with still less reason, be indicated. It is not alleged by any person, that such a claim was ever sanctioned by any
law of Virginia, or by her Courts of justice. The
case of Southall v. M'Kean, has already been
noticed and commented upon. It is laid down,
we admit, in Coulter's case, (5 Co. 30.) that the
disseisor, upon a recovery against him, may recoup the damages to the value of all that he has
expended in amending the houses. (See, also,
Bro. tit. Damages, pl. 82., who cites 24 Edw.
III. 50.) If any common law decision has ever
gone beyond the principle here laid down, we
VOL. VIII.

I

1823.
ZrV..
Bide.

CASES -IN THf

1823.

have not been fortunate enough to meet with it.
doctrine of Coulter's case is not dissimilar
in principle from that which Lord Kaimes considers to be the law of nature. His words are,
"it is a maxim suggested by nature, that reparations and meliorations bestowed upon a house, or
on land, ought to be defrayed out of the rents.
By this maxim we sustain no claim against the
proprietor for meliorations, if the expense exceed
not the rents levied by the bonte fidei possessor."
He cites Papinian,L. 48., de rei vindicatione.
Taking it for granted, that the rule, as laid
down in Coulter's case, would be recognised as
good law by the Courts of Virginia, let us see in
what respects it differs from the act of Kentucky.
That rule is, that meliorations of the property,
(which, necessarily, mean valuable and lasting
improvements,) made at the expense of the occu-'
pant of the land, shall be set off against the legal
claim of the proprietor for profits which have accrued to the occupant during his possession. But,
by the act, the occupant is entitled to the value of
the improvements, to whatever extent they may
exceed that of the profits ; not on the ground of
set-off hgainst the profits, but as a substantive demand. For the account for improvements is carried down to the day of the judgment, although
the occupant was for a great part of the time a
male fidei possessor, against whom no more can
be off-set, but the rents and profits accrued after
suit brought. Thus, it may happen, that the occupant, who may have enriched himself to any
amount, by the natural, as well as the industrial

SThe

V.
Biddle.

SUPREME COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES.

products of land, to which he had no legal title,
(as by the sale of timber, coal, ore, or the like,) is
accountable for no part of those profits but such as
accrued after suit brought; and, on the other hand,
may demand full remuneratiQn for all the improvements made upon the land, although they were
placed there by means of those very profits, in
violation of that maxim of equity, and of natural
law, ?zemo debet locupletari alienajactura.
If the principle which this law asserts, has a
precedent to warrant it, we can truly say, that we
have not met with it. But we feel the fullest coifidence in saying, that it is not to be found in the
laws of Virginia, or in the decisions of her Courts.
But the act goes further than merely giving to
the occupant a substantive claim against the owner
of the land for the value of the improvements, beyond that of the profits received since the suit
brought. It creates a binding lien on the land
for the value of the improvements, and transfers
the right of the successful claimant in the land to
the occupant, who appears, judicially, to have no
title to it, unless the former will give security to
pay such value within a stipulated period. In
other words, the claimant is permitted to purchase
his own land, by paying to the occupant whatever
sum the Commissioners may estimate the improvements at, whether valuable and lasting, or
worthless and unserviceable to the owner, although
they were made with the money justly and legally
belonging to the owner;. and upon these terms
only, can he recover possession of his land.
If the law of Virginia has been correctly stated,

1823.
v.
idle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\ofGreen

v.
Biddle.

need it be asked, whether the right and interest
such a claimant is as valid and secure under this
act, as it was under the laws of Virginia, by
which, and by which alone, they were to be determined ? We think this can hardly be asserted. If
the article of the compact, applicable to this case,
meant any thing, the claimant of land under Virginia had a right to appear in a Kentucky Court,
as he might have done in a Virginia Court if the
separation had not taken place, and to demand a
trial of his right by the same principles of law
which .would have governed his case in the latter
State. What those principles are, have already
been shown.
If the act in question does not render the right
of the true owner less valid and secure than it
was under the laws of Virginia, then an act declaring, that no occupant should be evicted but
upon the terms of his being paid the value, or
double the value of the land, by the successful
claimant, would not be chargeable with that consequence, since it cannot be denied, but that the
principle of both laws would be the same.
The objection to a law, on the ground of its impairing the obligation of a contract, can never depend upon the extent of the change which the law
effects in it. Any deviation from its terms, by
postponing, or accelerating, the period of performance which it prescribes, imposing conditions not
-expressed in the contract, or dispensing with the
perfgrmance of those which are, however minute,
or apparently immaterial, in their. effect upon the
contract of the parties, impairs its obligation.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Upon this principle it is, that if a creditor agree

1823.

with his debtor to postpone the day of payment,

Oreem

or in any other way to change the terms of the
v.
Biddle.
the
surety,
the
of
consent
the
without
contract,
latter is discharged, although the change was for
his -advantage.
2. The only remaining question is, whether this
act of 1812 is repugnant to the constitution of
the United States, and can be declared void by
this Court, or by the Circuit Court from which this
case comes by adjournment ?
But, previous to the investigation of this question, it will be proper to relieve the case from
some preliminary objections to the validity and
construction of the compact itself.
1st. It was contended by the counsel for the
tenant, that the compact was invalid in toto, because it was not made in conformity with the provisions of the constitution of the United States;
and, ifnot invalid to that extent, still, 2dly. The
clause of it applicable to the point in controversy,
was so, inasmuch as it surrenders, according to the
construction given to it by the opposite counsel,
rights of sovereignty which are unalienable.
1. The first objection is founded upon the alle- The compact
gation, that the compact was made without the con- f1d,as h13lva
seni of Congress, contraryto the tenth section of the .1o
tao
first article, which declares, that " no State shall, of Coor.rewithout the consent of Congress, enter into any
agreement or compact with another State, or with a
foreign power." Let it be observed, in the first
place, thlrt the constitution makes no provision respecting the mode or form in which the consent

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

of Congress is to be signified, very properly leaving that matter to the wisdom of that body, to be
decided upon according to the ordinary rules of
law, and of right reason. The only question in
cases which involve that point is, has Congress,
by some positive act, in relation to such agreement, signified the consent of that body to its validity? Now, how stands the present case? The
compact was entered into between Virginia and
the people of Kentucky, upon the express condition, that the general government should, prior to
a certain day, assent to the erection of the District of Kentucky into an independent State, and
agree, that the proposed State should immediately,
after a certain day, or at some convenient time
future -thereto, be admitted into the federal Union.
On the 28th of July, 1790, the convention of that
District assembled, under the provisions of the
law of Virginia, and declared its assent to the terms
and conditions prescribed by the proposed compact ; and that the same was accepted as a solemn
compact, and that the said District should become
a separate State on the 1st of June, 1792. These
resolutions, accompanied by a memorial from the
convention, being communicated by the President
of the United States to Congress, a report was
made by a committee, to whom the subject was referred, setting forth the agreement of Virginia,
that Kentucky should be erected into a State, upon
certain terms and conditions, and the acceptance
by Kentucky upon the terms and conditions so
prescribed; and, on the 4th of February, 1791,
Congress passed an act, which, after referring to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the compact, and the acceptance of it by Ken- 1823.
tucky, declares the consent of that body to the Green
erecting of the said District into a separate and inV.
Bidcle.
receivand
day,
certain
a
dependent State, upon
ing her into the Union.
Now, it is perfectly clear, that, although Congress might have refused their consent to the proposed separation, yet they.had no authority to declare Kentucky a separate and independent State,
without the assent of Virginia, or upon terms variant from those which Virginia had prescribed.
But Congress, after recognising the conditions
upon which alone Virginia agreed to the separation, expressed, by a solemn act, the consent of
that body to the separation. The terms and conditions, then, on which alone the separation could
take place, or the act of Congress become a valid
one, were necessarily assented to ; not by a mere
tacit acquiescence, but by an express declaration
of the legislative mind, resulting from the manifest construction of the act itself. To deny this,
is to deny the validity of the act of Congress,
without which, Kentucky could not have become
an independent State; and then it would follow,
that she is at this moment a part of the State of
Virginia, and all her laws are acts of usurpation.
The counsel who urged this argument, would not,
we are persuaded, consent to this conclusion; and
yet it would-seem to be inevitable, if the premises
insisted upon be true.
2. The next objection, which is to the validity
of the particular clause of the compact involvedin this controversy, rests upon a principle, the cor-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rectness of which remains to be proved. It is
opposed by the theory of all limited
Green
V.
governments, and especially of those which conBiddle. stitute this Union. The powers of legislation
The
compact
up- granted to the government of the United States,
not invalid
on the grond as well as to the several State governments, by
of its surrendering sore- their respective constitutions, are all limited. The
1823.

Spractically

reignrhts

article of the constitution of the United States,

involved in this very case, is one, amongst many
others, of the restrictions alluded to. If it be answered, that these limitations werp imposed by
the people in their sovereign character, it may be
asked, was not the acceptance of the compact the
act of the people of Kentucky in their sovereign
character? If, then, the principle contended for
be a sound one, we can only say, that it is one of a
most alarming nature, but which, it is believed,
cannot be seriously entertained by any American
stateswan or -jurist.
Various objections were made to the literal construction of the compact, one only of which we
deem it necessary particularly to notice. That
was, that if it be so construed as to deny to the
legislature of Kentucky the right to pass. the act
in question, it will follow, that that State cannot
pass laws to affect lands, the title to which was
derived under Virginia, although the same should
be -wanted for public use. If such a consequence
grows necessarily out of this provision of the
compact, still we can perceive no reason why the
assent to it by the people of Kentucky should not
be binding on the legislature of that State. Nor
can we perceive, why the admission of the con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
elusion involved in the argument should invalidate
an express article of the compact in relation to a
quite different subject. The agreement, that the
rights of claimants under Virginia should remain
as valid and secure as they were under the laws of
that State, contains a plain, intelligible proposiion, about the meaning of which, it ia impossible
there can be two opinions. Can the government
of Kentucky fly from this agreement, acceded to
by the people in their sovereign capacity, because
it involves a principle which might be inconvenient, or even pericibus to the State, in some
other-respect? !The Court cannot perceive how
this proposition could be maintained.
But the fact is, that the consequence drawn by
counsel from a literal construction of this article
of the compaot, cannot-be fairly deduced from the
premises, because, by the common law of Virginia,
if not by the universal law of all free governments,
private property may be taken for public use, upon
making to the individual a just compensation.
The admission of this principle never has been
inagined by any person as rendering his right to
property less valid and secure than it would be
were it excluded; and, consequently, it would be
an unnatural and forced construction -ofthis article
of the compact, to say, that it included such a
case.

We pass over the other observations of counsel
upon the construction of this article, with the following remark: that where the words of a law,
treaty, or contract, have a plain and obvious meaning, all construction, in hostility with such meanVoP. YIM.

12

1823.
GreM

V.
Bhd.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
1, Green
%.
Y.
Biadle.

ing, is excluded. This is a maxim of law, and a
dictate of common sense; for were a different rule
to be admitted, no man, however cautious and intelligent, could safely estimate the extent of his

engagements, or rest upon his own understanding
of a law, until a judicial construction of those instruments had been obtained.
We now come to the consideration of the question, whether this Court has authority to declare
the act in question unconstitutional and void, upon
the ground, that it impairs the obligation of the
compact ? This is denied for the following reasons: It is insisted, in the fir'st place, that this
Court has no such authority, where the objection
to the validity of the law is founded upon its opposition to the constitution of Kentucky, as it was,
in part, in this case. It will be a sufficient answer
to this observation, that our opinion is founded exclusively upon the constitution of the United
States.
The'
jurisdi2dly. It was objected, that Virginia and Kention of this
Court, in the tucky, having fixed upon a tribunal to determine
present case,
not excluded the meaning of the compact, the jurisdiction of
by the tribunalof the com- this Court is excluded.
If this be so, it must be
pact.
admitted, that all controversies which involve a
construction of the compact, are equally excluded
from the jurisdiction of the State Courts of Virginia and Kentucky. How, then, are those contro, ersies, which we were informed by the counsel
on both sides crowded the Federal and State
Courts of Kentucky, to be settled? The answer,
we presume, would be, by Commissioners, to be
appointed by those States. But none such havo

OF THE UNITED STATES.

been appointed; what then? Suppose either of 182&b
those States, Virginia for example, should refuse Green
V.
to appoint Commissioners? Are the occupants
of lands, to whichi they have no title, to retain BiddO
their possessions until this tribunal is appointed,
and to enrich themselves, in the mean time, by the
profits of them, not only to the injury of non-residents, but of the citizens of Kentucky? The
supposition of such a state of things is too monstrous to be for a moment entertained. The best
-feelings of our nature revolt against a construction
which leads to it.
But how happens it that the questions submitted to this Court have been entertained, and, decided, by- the Courts of Kentucky, for twenty-five
years, as we were informed by the counsel? Have
these Courts, cautious and leained as they must
be acknowledged to be, committed the crime of
usurping a jurisdiction which did not belong to
them? We should feel very unwilling to come to
such a conclusion.
The answer, in a few words, to the whole of the
argument, is to be found in the explicit language
of that provision of the compact, which respects
the tribunal of the Commissioners. It is to be appointed in no case but where a complaint, or dispute shall arise, not between individuals,but between the Commonwealth of Virginia and the
State of Kentucky, in their high sovereig, characters.
Having thus endeavoured to clear the question
of these preliminary objections, we have only to
add, by way of conclusion, that the duty, not less

92

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

tnan the power of this Court, as well as of every
other Court in the Union, to declare a law unconGreen
V. stitutional, which impairs the obligation of conBiddle. tracts, whoever may be the parties to them, is too
A.compact
enjoined by the constitution itself, and too
between
two clearly
t
States is a firmly established by the decisions of this and
,

contract with-

in the consti- other Courts, to be now shaken.; and that those

tiprohi- decisions entirely cover the present case.
A slight effort to prove that a compact between
two States is not a case within the meaning of the
constitution, which speaks of contracts,was made
by the counsel for the tenant, but was not much
pressed. If we attend to the definition of .a contract, which is the agreement of two or more parties, to do, or not to do, certain acts, it must be
obvious, that the propositions offered, and agreed
to by Virginia, being accepted and ratified by
Kentucky, is a contract. In fact, the terms compact and contract are synonymous: and in F/etcher v. Peck, the Chief Justice defines a contract
to be a compact between two or more parties.
The principles laid down in that case are, that
the constitution of the United States embraces all
contracts, executed or executory, whether between
individuals, or between a State and individuals;
and that a State has no more power to impair an
obligation into which she herself has entered, than
she can the contracts of individuals. Kentucky,
therefore, being a party to the compact which
guarantied to claimants of land lying in that
State, under titles derived from Virginia, their
rights, as they existed under the laws of Virginia,
was incompetent to violate that contract, by pass-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

93

ing any law which rendered those rights less va- 1823.
lid and secure.
Gree=
It was said, by the counsel for the tenant, that
V.
Biddle.
have
Kentucky,
of
laws
above
the validity of the
been m*
aintained by an unvarying series of decisiofns of the Courts of that State, and by the opinions and declarations of the other branches of her
government. Not having had an opportunity of
examining the reported cases of the Kentucky
Courts, we do not feel ourselves at liberty to admit
or deny the first part of this assertion. We may
be permitted, however, to observe, that the principles decided by the -Court of Appeals of that
State, in the cases of Haye's Heirs v. M'ifurray,
a manuscript report -of which was handed to the
Court when this cause was argued, are in strict
conformity with this opinion. As to the other
branches of the government of that State, we need
only observe, that whilst the legislature has maintained the opinion, most honestly we believe, that
the acts of 1797, and 1812, were consistent with
the compact, the objections of the Governor to the
validity of the latter act, and the reasons assigned
by him in their 9upport taken in connexion with
the above case, incline us strongly to suspect, that
a great diversity of opinion prevails in that State,
up.n the question we have been examining. However this may be, we .hold ourselves answerable to
God, our consciences, and our country, to decide
this question according to the dictates of our best
judgment, be the consequences of the decision
what they may. If we have ventured to entertain
a wish as to the result of the investigation which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Green

v.
Biddle.

we have laboriou.ly given to the case, it was, that
it might be favourable to the validity of the laws;
our feelings being always on that side of the question, unless the objections to them are fairly and
clearly made out.
The above is the opinion of a majority of the
Court.
The opinion given upon the first question proposed by the Circuit Court, renders it unnecessary
to notice the second question.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON. Whoever will candidly
weigh the intrinsic difficulties which this case presents, must acknowledge, that the questions certified to this Court, are among those on which any
two minds may differ, without incurring the imputation of wilful, or precipitate error.
We are fortunate, in this instance, in being
placed. aloof from that unavoidable jealousy which
awaits decisions founded on appeals from the exercise of State jurisdiction. This s.uit was originally instituted in the Circuit Court of the United States; and the duty now imposed upon us is,
to decide, according to the best judgment we can.
form, on the law of" Kentucky. We sit, and adjudicate, in the present instance, in the capacity of
Judges of that State. I am bound to decide according to those principles which ought to govern
the Courts of that State when adjudicating between its own citizens.
The first of the t~ro questions certified to this
Court is, whether the laws, well known by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

description of the occupying claimant laws of

1823.

Kentucky, are constitutional ?
Green
v.
The laws known by that denomination are the
acts passed the 27th of February, 1797, and the Fiddle.
31st of January, 1812. The general purport of
the former is, to give to a defendant in ejectment,
compensation for actual improvements innocently
made upon the land of another. The practical
effect of the latter, is to give him compensation
for all the labour and expense bestowed upon -t,
whether productive of improvement or not.
The two acts differ as to the time from which
damages and rents are to be estimated, but concur,
1st. In enjoining on the Courts the substitution
of Commissioners, for a jury, in assessing damages.
2dly. In converting the plaintiff's right to ajudgment, after having established his right to land,
trom 4n absolute, into a conditional right; and,
dly. Under some circumstances, in requiring,
that judgment should be given for the defendant,
and that the plaintiff, in lieu of land, should recover an assessed sum of money, or, rather, bonds
to pay that sum, i. e. another right of action, if
any thing.
The second question certified is. on which of
these two acts the Court shall give judgment, and
seems to have arisen out of an argument insisted
on at the trial, that as-the suit was instituted prior
to the passage of the last act, it ought to be adjudicated under the- first act, notwithstandhg that
the act of 1812 was in force when judgment was

given.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
V.

As the language of the first question is sufficiently general to embrace all questions that may
arise, either under the State, or United States'

Biddle.

constitution, much of the argument before this

Green

Court turned upon the inquiry, whether the rights
of the parties were affected by that article of the
United States' constitution which makes -provision
against the violation of contracts-?
The general question I shall decline passing an
opinion upon. I consider such an inquiry as a
work of supererogation, until the benefit of that
provision in the constitution.shall be claimed, in
an appeal from. the decision of a Court of the
State. There is, however, one view of this point,
presented by one of the gentlemen who appeared.
on behalf of the State, which cannot pass uqnoticed. It was contended, that the constitution of
Kentucky, in recognising the compact with Virginia, recognises it only as a compact; and, therefore, that it acquires no more force under that
constitution, than it had before; and that but for
the constitution of Kentucky, questions arising
under it were of mere diplomatic cognizance; and
were not, by the constitution, transmuted into subjects of judicial cognizance.
I am constrained to entertain a different view of
this subject; and, without passing an opinion -on
the legal effect of the compact, in its separate exisence, upon individual rights, I must. adopt the
opinion, that when the people of Kentucky declared, that "the compact with the State of Virginiap, subject to such alterations as may be made
therein, agreeably to the mode prescribed by the

OF THE U1IITED STATES.

-said compact, shall be considered as part of this 1823.
constitution," they enacted it as a taw fbr tlemselves, in all those parts.in which it was previously
v.
obligatory on them as a contract; and made it MIMN
a findamental -law,one which could only be repealed in the mode prescribed for altering that
constitution. Had it been enacted in the ordinary
form of legislation, notwithstanding the absurdity
insisted on of enacting laws obligat6ry on Virginia,
it is certain, that the maxim, utile per inut'le
won vitiatur,would-have been applied to it, and
it wonid.have been'enforced as a law of Kentucky
in every Court of justice setting in judgment upon
Kentucky rights. How much more so, when the
p plo thoight proper to give it the force and
solemnity of a fundamental law.
IUtherefore consider the article -of the compact
whhie has relation to'this question, as operating
on the rights and interests of the parties, with the
force of a fundamental law of the State; and,
ceitainly, it can, then, need no supp*ort from viewing it as a contract, unless it be, that the constitution may be -repealed by one of the parties, but
the contract cannot. While the constitution continues unrepealed, it is putting a fifth wheel to thd
cariage to invoke the contract into this cause. It
can only eventuate in crowding our dockets with
appeals from the State Courts.
I consider, therefore, the following extract from
the compact, as an enacted law of Kentucky:
"That all private rights and interests of lands
within (Kentucky,) derived from the laws of Virginia prior to (thkr) separation, shall remaia valid
V6L.
.
13

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUM'

1823.

and secure under the laws of the proposed State,

-,.
Green

and shall be determined by the laws (existing ib

Virginia at the time of the separation.") The
Biddle. alterations here made in the phraseology, are such
as necessarily result from the adaptation of it to a
legislative form. The occupying claimant laws,
therefore, must conform to this constitutional provision, or be void; for a legislature, constituted
tinder that constitution, can exercise no powers
inconsistent with the instrument which created it.
The will of the people has decreed otherwise, and
the interests of the ildivjdual cannot be. affected
by the exercise of powers which the people have
forbidden their legislature to exercise.
To constitute the sovereign and independent
State of Kentucky was, unquestionably, the leading object of the act of Virginia of the 18th of
December, 1789. To exercise unlimited legislative power over the territory within her own limits,
is one of the essential attributes of that sovereignty;
and every restraint in the exercise of this power,
I consider as a restriction on the intended grant,
and -subject to a rigorous construction. On general principles, private property would have reinained unaffected by the transfer of sovereignty ,
but thenceforth would have continued subject, both
as to right and remedy, to the legislative power of
the State newly created. The argument ')r the
plaintiff is, that the provision now under consideration goes beyond the recognition or enforcement
of this principle, and restrains the State of Kentucky from any legislative act that can in any way
impair. or encumber, or vary the bsneficiary inteV.

t)F THE UNITED STA'1ES.

rests which the grantees of land acquired under
the laws of Virginia. Or, in other words, that it
creates a peculiar tenure- on the lands granted by
Virginia, which exempts them from that extent of
legislative action to which the residue of the State
is unquestionably subjected. It must mean this,
if it means any thing. For, supposing all the
granteesof lands, under the laws of Virginia, in
actual 'possession of their respective premises,
unless the lands thus reduced into possession be
still under the supposed protection of this compact, neither could they have been at any time
previous. The words of the compact, if they
-arry the immunity contended for beyond the period of separation, are equally operative to continue it ever after.
But where would this land us ? If the State ot
Kentucky had, by law, enacted, that the dower of
a widow-should extend to a life estate in one half
of her-husband's land, would the widow of a Virginian, whose husband died the day after, have
lost the benefit of this law, because the laws of
Virginia had given the wife an inchoate right in
but one third ? This would be cutting deep, indeed, into the sovereign powers of Kentucky, and
-would be establishing the anomaly of a territory
over which no goveriament could legislate; not
Virginia, forshe had parted with the sovereignty;
Dot Kentucky, for the laws of Virginia were irrevocably fastened upon-two thirds of her territory.
But, it is contended, that the clause of the compact under consideration, must have meant more

1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I 823.
v.
wIi.

than what is implied in every cession of, territory,
or it was nugatory to have inserted it.
I confess, I cannot discover the foree of this argument. In the present case it admits of two answers ; the one is found in the very peculiar nature
of the land titles created by Virginia, and then
floating over the State of Kentucky. Land they
were not, and yet all the attributes of real estate
were extended to them, and intended by the compact.to be preserved to them under the dominion
of the new State. There was, then, something
more than the ordinary rights of individuals in the
ceded territory to be perpetuated, and enough to
justify the insertion of such a provision as a necessary measure. But, there is another answer to be
found, in the ordinary practice of nations in their
'treaties, in which, from abundant caution, or, perhaps, diplomatic parade, many stipulations, are inserted for the preservation of rights which no
oivilian would suppose could "be affected by a
change of sovereignty. Witness the frequent
stipulations for the restoration of wrecked goods,
or goods piratically taken ; witness, also, the third
article of the treaty cediing Louisiana, and the
sixth article of that ceding Florida, both of which
are intended to secure to the inhabitants of the
ceded territory, rights which, under our civil institutions, could not be withheld from them.
But,. let us now reverse the picture, and inquire
whether this stipulation of the compact, or of the
constitution, prescribed no limits to the legislative
power of Kentucky over the ceded territory. Had
she State of Kentucky, immediately after it was or-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ganized, passed a law, declaring, that wherever a 1828.
plaintiff in ejectment,'or in a writ ofright, shallhave Green
v.
established his right in law to recover, the jury
Bidl.
of
instead
and,
claimed,
premises
shall value the
judgment'for the land, and the writ of possession,
the plaintiff shall have his judgment for the value
so assessed, and the ordinary process of law to recover a sum of money on judgment; who is there
who would not have felt that this was a mere
mockery of the compact, a violation of the first
principles of private right, and of faith in contracts? Yet-such a law is, in degree, not in principle, variant from the occupying claimant laws
under consideration, and the same latitude of
legislative power which will justify the one, would
justify the other.
But, again, on the other hand, (and I acknowledge that I am groping my way through a labyxinth, trying to lay hold of sensible objects to guide
me,) whQ can doubt, that where private property
had been wanted for national purposes, the legislature of Kentucky might have compelled the
individual to convey it for a value tendered, notwithstanding it was held under a grant from Virginia, and notwithstanding such a violation of private right had been even constitutionally tbrbidden by the State of Virginia ? Or who can doubt
the power of Kentucky to regulate the course of
descents, the forms of conveying, the power of .devising, the nature and extent of liens, within her
territorial limits? For example: By the civil law,
the workman who erects an edifice, acquires a lien
on both the building and the land it stands upon,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'of

Green

V.
1iddle.

for payment of his bill.

Why should not the State

Kentucky have adopted this wise and just principle into her jurisprudence ? Or why not have
extended it to the case of the labourer who clears

a field ? Yet, in principle, the occupying claimant
laws, at least that of 1797, was really intended to
engraft this very provision into the Kentucky code,
as to the innocent improver of another man's property. It was thought, and justly thought, that
as the State of Virginia had pursued a course of
legislation in settling the country, which had introduced such a state of confusion in the titles to
landed property, as rendered it impossible for
her to guaranty any specific tract to the individual, it was but fair and right that some security
should be held out to him for the labour and expense bestowed in im'roving the country; and
that where the successful claimant recovered his
land, enhanced in value by the labours of another,
it was but right that he should make compensation
for the enhanced value. To secure this benefit to
the occupying claimant, to give a lien upon the
land for his indemnity, and avoid the necessity of
a suit in equity, were) in fact, the sole objects of the
act of 1797. The misfortune of this system appears to have been, that to curtail litigation, by
providing the means of closing this account current of rights and liabilities in a Court of law,
and in a single suit, so as to obviate the necessity
of going into equity; or of an action for mesne
profits on the one side, and an action for compensation on the other, appears to have absorbed the
attention of the legislature. The consequence of

OF THE UNITED STATES,

-which is, that a course of proceeding, quite ineon- 1823.
sistent with the simplicity of the commoh law pro- %--'
Green
cess, and a curious debit and credit of land,
V..
damages and mesne profits on the one hand, and Bidd.
of quantum meruit on the other, has been adopted,
exhibiting an anomaly well calculated to alarm the
precise notions of the common law.
But suppose, that instead of imposing this
complex mode of coming at the end proposed,
the legislature of Kentucky had passed a law simply declaring, that the innocent improver of lands,
without notice, should have his action to recover
indemnity for his-improvements, and a lien on the
premises so improved, in preference to all other
creditors: I can see no principle on which such a
law could be declared unconstitutional ; nor any
thing that is to prevent the party from enforcing
it in any Court having competent jurisdiction.
But the inconsistency which strikes every one
in considering the laws as they now stand is, that
one party should have a verdict, and another,
finally, the judgment. That, eodem flatu, the
plaintiff should be declared entitled to recover
land, and yet not entitled to recover land.
After thus mooting the difficulties of this case,
I am led to the opinion, that if we depart from the
restricted construction of the article under consideration, we are left to float on a sea of uncertainty as to the extent of the legislative power of
Kentucky over the territory held under Virginia
grants; that if, obliged to elect between the assumed exercise, and the utter extinction of the
power of Kentucky over the subject, I would

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I823.
\

adopt the lbrmer; that every question betweeir
extremes, is oie of expediency or diplomacy, rather than of judicial cognizance, and not to
be decided before this tribunal. If compelled to

.those
green

v.

1idde

decide on the constitutionality of these laws,
strictly speaking, I would say, that they in no wise
impugn the force of the laws of Virginia, under
which the titles of landholders are derived, but
-operate to enforce a right acquired subsequently,
and capable of existing consistently with those acquired under the laws of Virginia. I cannot
admit, that it was ever the intention of the framers
of this constitution, or of the parties to this com-.
pact,- or of the United States, in sanctioning that
compact, that Kentucky should be for ever chained
down to a state of hopeless imbecility-embarrassed with a thousand minute discriminations
drawn from the common law, refinements on
mesne profits, set-offs, &c., appropriate ve a state of
society, and a state of property, having no analogy
whatever to the actual state of things in Kentucky
-and yet, no power on earth existing to repeal or
to alter, or to effect those accommodations to the
ever varying state of human things, which the necessities or improvements of society may require.
If any thing more was intended than the preservation of that very peculiar and complex system
of land laws then operating over that country,
under the laws of Virginia, it would not have extended beyond the maintenance of those great
leading principles of the fundamental laws of that
State, which, as far as they limited the legislative
power of the State of Virginia over the rights of

OF THE UiNITED STATES.

individuals, became, also, blended with the law of
the land, then about to pass under a new sovereignty. And if it be admitted, that the State of
Kentucky might, in any one instance, have legislated as far as the State of Virginia might have
legislated on the same subject, I acknowledge that
I -cannot perceive where the line is to be drawn, so
as to exclude the powers asserted-under, at least,
the first of the laws now under consideration.
But,-it appears to me, that this cause ought to be
decided upon another view of the subject.
The practice of the Courts of the United States,
that is, the remedy of parties therein, is subject to
no other power than that of Congress. By the
act of 1789, the practice of the respective State
Courts was adopted into the Courts of the United
States, with power to the respective Courts, and to
the Supreme Court, to make all necessary alterations. Whatever changes: the practice of the respective' States. may have undergone since that
time, thatof the United States Courts has continued
uniform; except so far as the respective Courts
have thought it advisable to adopt the chadgps
introduced by the State legislatures.
The District of Kentucky was established while
it was yet a part of Virginia. (JudiciaryAct,
September 24, 1789.) The practice o the State
of Virginia, therefore, was made the ptactice of
the United States Courts in Kentucky. Now,
according to the practice of Virginia, the plaintiff,
here, upon making out his title, ought to have had
a verdict and judgment in the usual form. Nor
can I recognise the right of the State of KenVOL. VIII.

14

1823.
Green

V.
Didd.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\i~ Green

V.

Biddle.

tucky to compel him, or to compel the Courts of
the United States, to pass through this subsequent

process before a Board of Commissioners, and,
afterwards, to purchase his judgment in the mode
prescribed by the State laws. I do not deny the
right of the State to give the lien, and to give the
action for improvements; but I do deny the right
to lay the Courts of the United States under an
obligation to withhold from a plaintiff the judgment to which, under the established practice of
that Court, he had entitled himself.
It may be argued, that the Courts of the United
States, in Kentucky, have long acquiesced in a
compliance with these laws, and thereby have
adopted this course of proceeding into their own
practice. This, I admit, is correct reasoning;
for the Court possessed the power of making rules
of practice ; and such rules may be adopted by
habit, as well as by framing a literal rule. But
the facts, with regard to the Circuit Court here,
could only sustain the argument as to the occupy,
ing claimant law of 1797, since that of 1812 appears tb have been early resisted. Here, however,
I am led to an inquiry which will equally affect
the validity of both laIs, viewed as rules of practice; as affecting a fundamental right, incident
to remedies in our Courts of law.
It is, obviously, a leading object of these laws,
to substitute a trial by a Board of Commissioners,
for the trial by jury, as to mesne profits, damages,
and a quantum mteruit. Without examining how
far the legislative power of Kentucky is adequate

OF THE UNITED STATES,

to this change in its own Courts, I am perfectly
satisfied, that it annot be introduced by State authority into the Courts-of the UnitedStates. And
I go farther: the Judges of these Courts have not
power to make the change; for the constitution
has too sedulously guarded the trial by jury;
(seventh articleof Amendm.nts;) and the judiciary
act of the United States both recognises the
separation between common law and equity proceedings, and forbids that any Court should blend
and confound them.
These considerations lead me to the conclusion,
that he defendant is not entitled to judgment
under either of the acts under consideration, even
admitting them to be constitutional; but if, under
either, certainly under that alone which has
been adopted into the practice of the United
States Courts in Kentucky.
This cause came ori to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky, on certain questions upon which the"
opinions of the Judges of the said Circuit CourE
were opposed, and which were certified to this
Court for their decision by the Judges of the
said Circuit Court, and wag argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it ig the opinion of this
Court, that the act of the said State of Kentucky,
of the 27th of February, 1797, concerning occupying claimants- of land, whilst it was in force,
was repugnant to the constitution of the United
CERTIFICATE.

107
1823.
Green

V.
Biddle.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

States, but that the same was repealed by the act

v
La Nereyda.

of the 31st of January, 1812, to amend the said
act;' and that the act last mentioned is also repug-

mant to the constitution of the United States.
Theopinion given on the first question submitted to this Court by the said Circuit Court, renders
it unnecessary to notice the second question.
All which is ordered to be certified to, the said
Cirouit Court.

[Pasni.
LA NEREYDA.

CoNcLusMzESSa

o SEN'T34.]

The Syanisl Consul, Libellant.

quare, Whether a regular sentence of condemnation in a Court of
the captor, or his ally, the captured property having ben carried
inraprwsidia, will preclude the Courts of this-country, from restoring it to the original owners, where the capture was made in
violation of our laws, treaties, and neutral obligations
Whoever cfaims under such- a condemnation, must show, that heis
a boM0 Wp purohaser for a valuable consideration, unaffected
with any participation in ther violation of our], neutrality by the
captors.
Wvoe-er sets up a title under any condemnation, as priz, Is bound
tt produce the lilel, or othm equivalent proeed blg, under which
the coudemnationwas pronounced, as, we4 as the sentence of conde6mnation itself.
Where an order for farther proof Is made, and the party disobeys, or
neglects to comply. with its injunctions, Courts of, prize generally
cousidex.sucz disabedience, or neglect, as fatal to his claim.
Upon such an order, it is almost the invariable practice for the claimant (besides other testimony) to make proof by his own oath of his
proprietary -interest, and to explain the other circumrtsancos of the

