CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
d
Sneed

v.

wster.

and the owner must be left to his remedy against
the corporation for adjusting the correct amount.
But if it be intended to obtain the decision of
this Court, whether one man's lots can be legally
sold for another man's debts, we cannot perceive
that it will admit of a question ; nor can it ever
occur, if the course be pursued which is marked
out by this decision.
The tenth point made in the cause, is one which
goes to contest the correctness of the decision
below, on a general principle of equity; but, understanding this question, as well as that which
arises upon the ground of the complainant's supposed remedy at law, to be withdrawn, we shall
decline noticing them.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[FLEADIe. LoCAL LA1w.

SNEED

and others, Plaintifsin Error,
V.

WISTER

and others, Defendants in Error.

The Act of Assembly of Kentucky, of the 7th of February, 1812,
" giving interest on judgments for damages, in certain cases,"
applies as well to cases depending in the Circuit Courts of the
Union, as to proceedings in similar cases in the State Courts.
The party is as well entitled to interest in an action on an appeal
bond, as if he were to proceed on the judgment, if the. judgment
be'on a contract for the payment of money. He is entitled to interest fAm the rendition of the original judgment.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Oyer is not demandable of a record; nor, in an action upon a bond
for performance of covenants in another deed, can oyer of such
deed be craved; for the defendant, and not the plaintiff, must
show it, with a profert of it; or an excuse for the omission.
If oyer be improperly demanded, the defec, is aided on a general
demurrer; but it is fatal to the plea, where. is set down as a cause
of demurrer.
-NW debet is an improper plea to an action of debt upon a specialty
or deed, where it is the foundation of the action.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
This was an action of debt, brought in the Circuit
Court for the District of Kentucky, by the defendants in error, against the plaintiffs, upon a bond
in the penalty of 4000 dollars, with condition, that
the said A. Sneed should prosecute with effect
his appeal from a judgment of the Franklin Circuit Court, pronounced in a suit wherein the said
Wister and others were plaintiffs, and the said A.
Sneed was defendant, and should well and truly
pay to the said obligees all such damages and
costs as should be awarded against him, in case
the .said judgment should be affirmed in whole or
in part, or the appeal should be dismissed or discontinued.
The averments in the declaration are, that the
said A. Sneed did not prosecute his said appeal
with effect, but that, afterwards, at a certain term
of the Court of Appeals, the said judgment was
affirmed, and judgment rendered in favour of the
said plaintiffs, against the said defendant, A.
Sneed, for damages at the rate of ten per cent.
on the amount of the said judgment, to wit,
on the sum of 1895 dollars J1 cents, as by
the records of the said Court of Appeals would

1823.
Sneed
v.
W'StCL

CASES LN THE SUPREM,

COURT

v
Sneed

appear. And, further, that the said judgment,
rendered by the said Franklin Circuit Court,

wisr.

dollars costs, as would appear by the records

1823.
V.

was for 1895 dollars 132 cents damages, and

of the said Court. The declaration then avers,
that the said A. Sneed hath not paid to the said
plaintiffs the said damages and costs aforesaid, or
either of them, whereby action accrued.
To this declaration, the defendants, after demanding oyer of the bond, and condition thereof;
in the declaration mentioned, and also of the
judgment of the Court of Appeals, therein proffered, pleads in bar of the action : 1. That by
the judgment and mandate of the said Court of
Appeals, the said cause was remanded to the Circuit Court of Franklin, where the judgment of
the 'said Court of Appeals, according to the mandate, was entered up as the judgment of the said
Court of Franklin ; and that after the said judgment was so entered, viz. on the 19th of August,
1820, in the clerk's office of the said Court, the
said A. Sneed, according to the laws of Kentucky,
did replevy the said sum in the declaration mentioned, by acknowledging recognisances, called
replevin bonds, before the said clerk, together
with Landon Sneed, his surety in said recognisances for the said sums of money, damages
and costs, in the declaration mentioned, to be paid
in one year from the date thereof; the said clerk
having lawful authority to take said replevin bonds,
having by law the force of judgments, and then
remaining in the said Court in full force, not
quashed, &e. 2. The second plea is nil debet.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

693

To these pleas the plaintiffs demurred, and as- 1823.
signed for cause of demurrer, to the first, that it Sneed
contains a prayer of oyer of records, of which
V.
wister.
defendthe
which
of
and
profert was not made,
ants had no right to oyer; and further, that the
said plea is defective, in not setting forth where
the replevin bond pleaded was executed, that the
Court might judge whether there was any authbrity to take it.
The demurrers being joined, the Court below
gave judgment in favour of the plaintiffs, and
awarded a writ of inquiry to assess the damages
to which they were entitled. On this inquiry, the
defendants' counsel moved the Court to instruct
the jury, 1. That the damages of 10 per cent. on
affirmance, cannot be given, because not within
the breaches assigned ; and, 2. That they ought
not to allow interest on the damages in the original judgment, for any period before affirmance.
These instructions the Court refused to give ;
but did, upon the motion of the counsel for the
plaintiffs, instruct the jury, that the act of At-sembly of Kentucky, of the 7th of February, 1812,
" giving interest on judgments for damages in
certain cases," applies to cases depending in this
Court, in actions on appeal bonds, as much as to
proceedings in similar cases in the State Courts.
That the party is as well entitled to interest in an
action on the appeal bond, as if he were to proceed
on the judgment at law; and that, by law, the
plaintiff is entitled to interest on the amount of
his judgment, from the time it was rendered in the
Franklin Circuit Court.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

694
1823.
Sneed

Judgment being rendered in favour of the plainbelow, for the damages assessed by the jury,
a writ of error was sued out by the defendants,
and the cause brought before this Court for re-

'tiffs

V.

Wister.

vision.
Alarc 71h.

The cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. M. B. Hardin, for
the defendants in error.*

azch 14th.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court; and, after stating the case, proceeded
as follows:
Whether the replevin bond entered into by A..
Sneed, in the clerk's office of the Franklin Circuit
Court, could be pleaded in bar of the action on
the appeal bond, is a question which this Court
would feel no hesitation in deciding, could we have
succeeded in our efforts to obtain the act or acts
of the Kentucky Legislature which authorized the
giving such bonds. The same reason prevents
this Court from giving an opinion as to the alleged
insufficiency.of the first plea, in not setting forth
where the replevin bond, so pleaded, was executed,
that the Court might judge whether there was any
authority for taking the same. If the cause turned
exclukvely upon those points, we should deem a
continuance of it proper, until the counsel could
have an opportunity of furnishing the Court with
those laws. This, we think, is not the case; being
all of opinion, that, for the other cause of demurrer
The latter cited I Chiity's Plead.302.

M9

OF THE UNITED STATES.

assigned to the first plea, the judgment of the

182S.

In this

Sneed

Court below, upon that plea, was correct.

V.
case, no profert was made, in the declaration, of
the records therein mentioned, nor would it have Witcr.
been proper to do so. And even if a profert be
unnecessarily, or improperly made, still, the defendant is not entitled to demand oyer of the instrument, but is bound to plead without it. We
take the law to be, that oyer is not demandable of
a record; nor in an action upon a bond, for performance of covenants in another deed, can oyer
of such deed be craved, but the defendant, and
not the plaintiff, must show it, or the counterpart,
with a profert of it, or an excuse for the omission.
If oyer be improperly demanded, and the instrument be stated upon it, although the defect in the
plea would be aided on a general demurrer, it is,
nevertheless, fatal to the plea, where it is set forth
as a cause of demurrer. The whole of this doctrine is laid down in 1 Ckitty's Plead.302. third
Am. ed.
As to the plea oi nil debet, to which there is a
demurrer, it is clearly bad, no principle of law
being better settled, than that this is an improper
plea to an action of debt upon a specialty or deed,
where it is the foundation of the action.
This brings the Court to the consideration of
the instructions given to the jury upon the application of the plaintiffs' counsel; and we are of
opinion, that the act referred to was strictly applicable to this case, in like manner as it would have
been had this action been brought in a State
Court; and that, according to the clear expressions

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Sneed

V.,
Wister.

of that act, the plaintiffs were entitled to legal interest on the damages recovered in.the Franklin
Circuit Court, from the time of the rendition of thht
judgment, since it fully appeared, by the record of
the Court of Appeals, that the judgment of the
Franklin Circuit Court was rendered on a contract
to pay money. The act declares, in substance,
that every judgment rendered after the passage of
the act-, founded upon contract sealed or unsealed,
expressed or implied, for the payment of money,
&c. which should be delayed in the execution, by
proceedings on the part of the defendant, by injunction, writ of error, &c. with a supersedeas,
or an appeal to the Court of Appeals, should,
in the event of the judgment being affirmed,
bear legal interest from the rendition of the
judgment; .&c. The last part of the section,
which declares it to be the duty of the clerk
of the Court in which the judgment was rendered, to endorse on the execution, that the
same is to bear legal interest until paid, is stritly
applicable'to the remedy, and not to the right.
The latter is given by the preceding parts of the
act; but it-can only be enforced where the plaintiff proceeds by execution, by virtue of the endorsement on that process, which it is the duty of
the clerk to make.
The Court is, also, of opinion, that the Court

below ws right in refusing to give the first instruction asked for by the defendants' counsel, inasmuch as the breaches assigned do, in our apprehension, manifestly embrace the 10 per cent.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

697

damages given upon affirmance by the Court of 1823.
Appeals.

And if the above opinion, in respect

to the interest to which the plaintiff was entitled,
be correct, it follows, that the Court below was
right in refusing to give the second instruction
asked for by the defendants' counsel.

Hugh

V.
Rgg.

Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[PACTICE.]

HuGH, Plaintiff in Error,

V.
HIGGS and Wife, Defendants in .Error.
-Noaction at law will lie on the decretal order of a Court of Equity.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the
plaintiff in error,' and by Mr. Jones, for the defendants in error.

Vrh 6th

Mr. Chief Justice MARSAALL delivered the mard, 14m.
opinion of the Court. This is an 'action on the
case, brought to recover the money which the
plaintiff in error had been decreed by a Court of
Chancery to pay to the defendants in error. The
defendant in the Court below contended, that an
a He cited Carpenter v. Thornton. 3 Bamp. &" JJ. 52.
VOL. VIII.

8

