CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
The

.Mary Ann.

[INsTANCE COURT.

The MARY AN.N.

SLAvE TRADE ACT.]

PLUMER,

Claimant.

A libel of information, under the 9th sec. of the Slave Trade Act of
March 9.d, 1807, c. 77. alleging that the vessel sailed from the
ports of New-York and Perth.Amboy, without the captain'; having
delivered the manifests required by law to the collector or 8urveyor
of.New-York and Perth Amboy, is defective; the act requiring tho
manifest to be delivered to the collector or surveyor of a aingle
portUnder the same section, the libel mUst charge tlhe vessel-to be of'tho
burthen of 40 tons or more. In general, it is sufficient to chargo
the offence in the words directing the forfeiture; but if the words
are general, embracing a whole class of individual subjects, but
must necessarily be so construed as to embrace only a subdivision
of that class, the allegation must conform to the legislative sense
and meaning.
Where the libel is so informal and defective, that the Court cannot
enter up a decree upon it, and the evidence discloses a case of forfeiture, this Court will not amend the libel itself, but will remand
the cause to the Couri below, with directions to permit it to be
amended.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.
This was an allegation of forfeiture, in the Court
below, against the brig Mary Ann, for a violation
of the act of March'2d, 1807, c. 77. prohibiting
the importation of slaves into any port or place
within the jurisdiction of the United States, from
and after the 1st. day of January, 1808. The
libel contained two counts. The first alleged, that
the brig Mary Ann, on the 10th of March, 1818,
sailing coastwise from a port in the Ul ited States,
to wit, the ports of New-York and Perth Amboy,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to a port or place within the jurisdiction of 1823.
the same, to wit, the port of New-Orleans, and
The
having on board certain negroes, mulattoes, or bi-y Am
persons of colour, for the purpose of transporting
them to be sold or disposed of as slaves, or to be
held to service or labour, to wit, No. 1, Lydia,
&c. did, laden and destined as aforesaid, depart
from the ports of New-York and Perth Amboy,
where she then was, without the captain or commander having first made out and subscribed duplicate manifests -of every negro, mulatto, and
person of colour, on board said brig iary Ann,
and without hAving previously delivered the same
to'the collectors or surveyors of the ports of NewYork and Perth Amboy, and obtained a permit,
in manner as required by the act of Congress, in
such case made and provided, contrary to the
form of -said act. The second count was, for
taking on board thirty-six negroes, mulattoes, or
persons of colour, previous to her arrival at her
said port of destination, contrary to the act, &c.a
a The 9th section of the act, on which this proceeding was
grounded, provides, "that the captain, master, or commander, of
any ship or vessel, of the burthen of forty tons or more, from and
after the first day of January, one th6usand eight hundred and
eight, sailing coastwise, from any port in the United States to any
port or place within the jurisdiction of the same, having on board
any negro, mulatto, or person of colour, for the purpose of transporting them, to be sold or disposed of as slaves, or to be held to
service or labour, shall, previous to the departure of such ship or
vessel, make out and subscribe duplicate manifests of every such
negro, mulatto, or person of colour, on board such ship or vessel,
therein specifying the name and sex of each person, their age and
stature, as near as may be, and the class to which they respectively

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
•The
iarj AmL.

The Court below condemned the vessel, as liable to fbrfeiture, under the act referred to, and
the claimant appealed t6 this Court.

belong, whether negro, mulatto, or person of colour, with the name
and place of residence of every owner or shipper of the same, and
shall deliver such manifests to the collector of the port, if there be
one, otherwise to the surveyor, before whom the captain, master,
or commander, together with the owner, or shipper, shall severally
swear or affirm, to the best of their knowledge and belief, that the
persons therein epe.fled were not imported or brought into the
United Sta(e8from and after thefirat day of January,one thou.
sand eight hundred and eight, and that, under the laws of the
State, they-are held to service or labour; whereupon the said colMetor or siurveyor shall certify the same on the said manifests, one
of which he shall return to the said captain, master, or commander;
with a permit, specifying thereon the number, names, apd general
"description of such persons. and authorizing him to proceed to the
port of his destination. And if any ship or vessel, being laden and
destined 'as aforesaid, shall depart from the port where she may
then be, without the captain, master, or commandqr, having first
made dut and subscribed duplicate manifests of every negro, mulatto., and person of colour, on board such ship or vessel as aforesaid, and without having previously delivered the same t9 the said
collector or surveyor, and obtained a permit, in manner as herein
required, or shall, previous to her arrival at the port of her destination, take on board any negro, mulatto, or person of colour, other
than those speified in the manifests, as aforesaid, every such ship
or vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, shall be
forfeited to the use of the United States, and may be seized, prosecuted, and condemned, in any Court of the Uniited States having
jurisdiction thereof; and the captain, master, or'commander,, of
every such ship or vessel, shall, moreover, forfeit, for every such
negro, mulatto, or person of colour, so transported) or taken on
board, contrary to the provisions of this act, the sum of one thousand dollars, one moiety thereof to the United States, and the other
moiety to the use of any person or persons who shall sue for and
prosecute the same to ef'ect."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

383

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellant, argued, 1823.
(1.) That the libel was insufficient in its allegaThe
tions to sustain the sentence which had been ren- Mary Am
dered by the Court below. It alleges, that the Feb. 10th.
vessel sailed from the ports of New-York and
Perth Amboy, without the captain's having made
out the duplicate manifests required by law, and
without his having previously delivered the same
to the collectors or surveyors of the ports of brewYork and Perth Amboy. This is too vague and
general. The act directs the manifest to be delivered to the collector or surveyor of a sinzgle
port. (2.) The libel alleges, that the manifest
required by law, was not made out and delivered
before the vessel sailed. But this allegation, as
laid, is disproved by the manifest itself, which is
in evidence; and if the prosecutor intended to
have availed himself of any defects in the manifest,
those defects ought to have been specified in the
libel. It ought to have charged the not specifying
the names, &c., if it was intended to rely on that
objection. (3.) The libel does not bring the case
within the 9th section of the act, on which it is
founded, by stating that the vessel was " of the
burthen of forty tons, or more." The clause of
forfeiture, in the latter part of that section, although it is in general terms, " any vessel," &c.
ought, upon every just principle of interpretation,
to be restricted to the vessels of forty tons, ot
more, which are mentioned in the first part of the
section. It is not sufficient to charge the offence
in the very words of the statute, but the sense and
effect of those words must be looked to, so as to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
The

give the party notice of the precise offence meant
to be charged."

ary Ann.

The Attorney General, contra, insisted, that
this case did not at all resemble that of the
Hoppet, where the ship, and the innocent goods,
were held not to be forfeited, because there was
no charge applicable to them, inasmuch as they
were not alleged to belong to the owner of the
prohibited articles, the French wines. This libel
of information does not' merely contain a general
reference to the law; it gives the party precise
notice- of the charge, and secures him against
any other prosecution for the same offence, which
is all that can reasonably be required. In the
case of the ,Samuel, there was a more serious
objection to the form of the allegation, which,
however, did not prevail. Those technical niceties, which were once insisted on, in criminal informations at common law, are not regarded in
admiralty informations, which are modelled up6n
the more liberal and rational principles of the civil
law. A libel may even allege the offence in the
alternative of several facts, if each alternative
constitute a substantive offence and cause of forfeiture. Here it charges the non-delivery of a
manifest, as required by the act, and the proof is,
a delivery of a, manifest, totally defective in every
particular required by the act.
a The H1oppet, 7 CI'aA'o ft. 389.
-6 1 Whseat. Rep. 9.
c The Carolluej, 7 Cranc4's Rep. 496. and note of errata to
the same volume.

OF THE UNtTED STATES.

Mr. Chief. Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- 1823.
nion of the Court, and, after stating the case, proThe
May Aim
ceeded as-follows:
Several objectigns have been made to the libel
in this case. The first is, that it alleges the brig .farch 1sf.
Mary Ann to have sailed from the ports of NewYork and Perth Amboy, without the captain's
having first made out and subscribed the duplicate
manifests required by law, and without his having
previously delivered the same to the collectors or
surveyors of the ports of New-York and Perth
Amboy, whereas the act of CQngress directs the
manifest to be delivered to the collector or surveyor'of a single port.
This objection is thought fatal. The libel either
requires more than the law requires, and charges,
as the cause of forfeiture, that the manifest was
not delivered to thecollectors or surveyors of two
ports, while the law directs that it should be deliverecl to the collector or surveyor only of one;
or it is too vague and uncertain, in not alleging,
with precision, the port where the offence was
committed.
It is probable that the District Attorney might
be uncertain whether the brig sailed from the port
of Perth Amboy or of New-York; but this circumstance ought to produce no difficulty, since
the offence might have been laid singly in each
port, and charged expressly, in separate counts.
The second objection is this:
The libel charges, that the manifest required
by law, was not made out and delivered before the
vessel sailed.
vdz. VII.

49

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

The counsel contends that a manifest was delivered; that this charge is, therefore, disproved
Muay Ann. by the fact ; and that if the libellant would avail
himself of any defects in the manifest, they ought
to be specified in the libel.
Whether a libel, charging, generally, that manifests have not been made out and delivered, as
required by the act of Congress, would be considered as sufliciently disproved by producing a
manifest, not strictly conformable to law, is a
question which belongs certainly to the merits of
the cause, and which would deserve consideration
on. the inquiry how far the defectiveness of the
manifest was put in issue by such a libel. But
certainly no particular defect can be alleged, when
there is no manifest; and, of consequence, the allegation, that the manifests required by law were
not made out, would be sufficient on a demurrer.
They are, of course, sufficient for the present
1823.

'

-'

inquiry.
Another objection, on which the Court has felt
great difficulty, is, that the libel does not state
that the brig Mary Ann was "of the burthen of
forty tons or more."
The 9th section of the act of Congress, on
which this prosecution was founded, enacts, that
" the captain," &c. " of any ship or vessel, of
the burthen of forty tons or more," and "sailing
coastwise," &c. "having on board any negro,"
&c. "shall, previous to the departure of such
ship or vessel, make out and delivez duplicate
manifests," &c. "And if any ship or vessel, being

laden and destined as aforesaid, shall depart from

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the port where-she may thenbe, without the cap- 1823.
taim, master, or commander, having first made
The
out and subscribed duplicate manifests of every mly AAM
negro, mulatto, and person of colour, on board
such ship or vessel, as aforesaid, and without
having previously delivered the same to the said
collector or surveyor, and obtained' a permit, in
manner as herein required," " every such ship or
vessel," &c. "shall be forfeited to the use of the
United States."
The fnrst step in-this inquiry, respects the exten t of the clause of forfeiture. Does it comprehend vessels under forty tons burthen ?
Although the language of the sentence is general, yet those rules for construing statutes, which
are dictated by good sense, and sanctioned by
immemorial usage, which require that the intent
of the Legislature shall have effect, which intent
is. to be collected from the context, restrain, we
think, the meaning of those terms to vessels of
the burthen of forty tons and upwards'
The burthen enters essentially into the description of those vessels which can commit the offence
prohibited by-this section. Only vessels of forty
tons or more) are directed to make out and deliver the manifests prescribed by the act; and
only such vessels could obtain the permit. The
whole provision must have been intended for vessels of that burthen only, or the words would have
been omitted, When, then, the act proceeds, after
prescribing the duty, to punish the violation of it,
the words, "any ship or vessel," must be applied

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\had
mary A

to those ships or vessels only to which the duty
been prescribed. We understand the clause
inthe same sense as if the word "such" had been
introduced.
The construction of this section may receive
some illustration from the 8th and the 10th.
The 8th section prohibits the commander of any
ship or vessel, of less burthen than forty tons, to
take on board any negro, mulatto, or person of
colour, for the purposes described in the 9th section,
on penalty of forfeiting, for every such negro, &c.
the sum of 800 dollars. But no forfeiture of. the
vessel is inflicted in this section. The words imposing forfeiture are, "and if any ship or vessel,
being laden and destined as aforesaid." Now, the
preceding part of the section, to which these words
refer, is confined to vessels of forty tons and
more. The act proceeds, "shall depart," "withgut the commander having first made out," &e.
"duplicate manifests, as aforesaid ;" showing that
the general words, "any ship or vessel," meant
those ships or vessels only which bad been directed
to make out these manifests; and without having
obtained apermit "in manner as herein prescribed."
Now, only a vessel of forty tons and more could
obtain the permit directed. The section proceeds
to enact, that every such ship or vessel -hall be
forfeited, and the commander thereof shall moreover forfeit, for every such negro, &c. the sum of
one thousand dollars.
It is perfectly clear, that this pecuniary penalty
is. zo-extensive with the forfeiture of the vessel.
But it cannot extend to the commanders of yes-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

389

sels under forty tons, because the eighth section 1823.
has inflicted on the commanders of such vessels,
The
for the same offence, the penalty of eight hundred Mary Ann.
dollars.
The 10th section inflicts a penalty of 10,000
dollars on the commander who shall land negroes,
&c. transported coastwise, without delivering to
the collector the duplicate manifests prescribed by
the 9th section. This section was unquestionably
intended to be co-extensive with the 9th, and is, in
terms, confined to vessels of the burthen of forty
tons or more.
We think, that the Legislature has inflicted forfeiture for the failure to make out, subscribe, and
deliver a manifest, on those vessels only which are
directed to perform those acts; that is, only on
vessels of the burthen of forty tons or more.
The question, then, recurs, is the omission, to
charge that the brig Mary Ann was a vessel of the
burthen of forty tons or more, fatal to this libel?
It is, in general, true, that it is sufficient for a
libel to charge the offence in the very words which
direct the forfeiture; but this proposition is not,
we think, universally true. If the 'words which
describe the subject of the law are general, embracing a whole class of individuals, but must necessarily be so construed as to embrace only a
subdivision of that class, we think the charge in
the libel ought to conform to the true sense and
meaning of those words as used by the Legislature. In this case, if the brig Mary Ann be a
vessel under forty tons, her commander is liable to
a pecuniary penalty, but the Court cannot pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

nounce a sentence of forfeiture against her. If
she be of the burthen of forty tons or more, the
The
Mary Ann. commander is liable to a heavier pecuniary penalty,
and the vessel is forfeited. The libel ought to
inform the Court, that the vessel is of that description which may incur forfeiture.
We think, therefore, that the sentence of the
District Court of Louisiana must be reversed for
these defects in the libel; but as there is much
reason to believe, that the offence for which the
forfeiture is claimed has been committed, the cause
is remanded to the District Court of Louisiana,
with directions to permit the libel to be amended.
Decree reversed.
DECREE. This cause-came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the District Court
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,
that the libel filed in the said cause, is insufficient
to sustain the sentence pronounced by the District
Court, because it does not state, with sufficient
certainty, the port in which the offence charged
therein was committed; and because also, it does
not allege that the brig Mary Ann was of the burthen of forty tons or more. This Court is of
opinion, that the sentence of the District Court of
Louisiana, condemning the brig Mary Ann,, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, as forfeited to the
United States, is erroneous, and doth reverse and
annul the same: and this Court doth further ADJUDGE, ORDER, and DECREE, that the cause be re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

manded to the Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana, with directions to allow the

further prolibel to be amended, and to take such

ceedings in the said cause, as law and justice may
require.

[INSTA-NCE COURT.

The

SARAH.

JURISDICTION.)

HAZARD,

Claimant.

In cases of seizures made on land under the revenue laws, the District Court proceeds as a Court of common law, according to the
course of the Exchequer on informations in rem, and the trial of
issues offact is to be by jury ; but in cases of seizures on watersnavigablefrom the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen, it proceeds
as an Instance Court of Admiralty, by libel, and the trial is to be by
the Court.
A libel charging the seizure to have been made on water, when in fact
it was made on land,will not support a verdict, and judgment or ,entence thereon ; but must be amended or dismissed. The two jurisdictions, and the proceedings under them, are to be kept entirely
distinct.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.
This was a libel of information in the Court below, -against 422 casks of wine, imported in the
brig. Sarah, and afterwards seized at New-Orleans,
alleging a forfeiture to the United States by a false
entry in the office of the collector of the port of
New-York, made for the benefit of drawback, on
re-exportation, and stating, that the seizure was
made on waters navigable from the sea by vessels

1823.

