OF THE UNITED STATES.

421

no evidence of a sale to Desmoland; none of 182s.
his alien character, if there had been a sale to
Wormley
o.
'him; the sale to L'Amoureaux did not subject her
to forfeiture; and not a- fact had been made out Woriey.
in evidence, which was not even more reconcilable with a state of innocence than a state of guilt.
I confess I think it a hard case.
Decree affirmed, wltt costs.

[CHA.iCERY.
HUGH

WALLACE

RICHARD

TRUST.

JuaRscIo.]

WORMLEY,

VEITCH,

THOMIAS

DAVID

STRODE,

CASTLEMIAN,

and

CHARLES M'CoRMICK, A-ypellants,
V.

Wife of Hugh Wallae Wormley,
F.
STROTHER, her next friend, and
by GEORGE

MARY WORMLEY,

JOHN S. WORMLEY, MARY W.

WORMLEY, JANE

B.

WORMLEY, and ANNE B. WORMLEY, infant
children of the said Mary and Hugh Wallace, by
the said STROTHER, their next friend, Respondents.
A trustee cannot purchase, or acquire by exchange, the trust property.
Where the trustee in a marriage settlement has a power to sell, and
reinvest the trust property, whenever, in his opinion, the purchase
money may be laid out advantageously for the cesfui que trus18,
that opinion must be fairly and honestly exercised, and the sale Vil
be void where he appears to have been influenced by private and
.selfish interests, and the sale is for an inadequate price.
Quere, How far a bone fide purchaser, ithout notice of the breach

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

of trust,in sucha case, isbound to see to the application of the
Spurchase

money ?

Wormley Where the purchase money is to be reinvested upon trusts that reqdiro
V.
time and discretion, or the acts of sale and reinvestment are conWormley.
templated to be at a distance fibm each other, the purchaser i6 not
bound to look to the application of the purchase money.
But wherever the purchaser is affected with notice of the facts, which
in law constitute the breach of trust, the sale is void as to him; and
a mere general denial of all knowledge of fraud will not avail him,
if the transaction is such as a Court of equity cannot sanction.
A,bonw.fidei purchaser, without notice, to be entitled to protection,
must be so, not only at the time of the contract or conveyance, but
until the purchase money is actually paid.
This Court will not suffer its jurisdiction, in an equity cause, to b6
ousted, by the circumstance of the joinder or non-joinder of merely
formal parties, who are not entitled to sue, or liable to be sued, in the
United States'- Courts.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Virginia.
The originiil bill was filed by the respondents,
Mary Wormley, and her infant children, suing by
their next friend, against the appellants, (Jugh
W. Wormley, her husband, Thonias Strode, as
trustee, Richard Veitch, as original purchaser,
and David Castleman and Charles M'Cormick, a
mesne purchasers from Veitch of the trust property, for. the purpose of enforcing the trusts of a
marriage settlement, and obtainiing an account,
and other equitable relief. The bill charged the
sale to have been a breach of the trusts, and that
the purchasers had notice.
In contemplation of a marriage between Hugh
W. Wormley and Mary Wormley, (then Strode,)
an indenture of three parts was executed on the
5th of August, 1807, by way of marriage settlement, to which the husband and wife, and Thomas Strode, her brother, as trustee, were parties.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

423

The indenture, after reciting the intended mar- 1823.
riage, in case it shall take effect, and in bar of Wonday
V.
dower andjointure, &c, &c. conveys all the real
and personal estate held by flugh W. Wormley, Worm'ey.
under a certain indenture specified in the deed,
as his paternal inheritance, to Thomas Strode, in
fee, upon the following trusts, viz. "for the use,
beirefit, and emolument of the said Mary and her
children," if any -she have, until the 'decease of
ber intended husband, and then, 'if she should be
the. longest liver, until the children should respectively arrive at legal maturity, at which time
each individual of them is to receive his equal
dividend, &c. leaving at least one full third part
of the estate, &c. in her possession, for and during her natural life; then, on her decease, the
landed part of the said one third to be divided
among the children, &c. and the personal property, &c. according to the will, &c. of the said
Mary, at. her decease. But- if the said Mary
should depart this life before the decease of the
said Hugh W. Wormley, then he is to enjoy the
whole b enefits, emoluments, -and profits, during
his natural life,. thqn to be divided amongst said
W.'s children, as he by will shall see cause to
direct, ani then this trust,- so far as relates to
T. .Strode, to end, &c.; and so, in like manner,
should the said Mary depart this life without issue,
then this trust tp end, &c.. But shouldWormley
depart this life before the said Mary, and leave no
issue, then the said Mary to have and enjoy the
whole of said estate for and during her natural

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. life, and then to descend to the heirs of the said
W., *or as his will relative thereto may provide."
\airv
:Wormley
v.
Then follows this clause. " And it is further
Wonnley. covenanted, &c. that whenever, in the bpinion
of the said Thomas Strode, the said landed property can be sold and conveyed, and the money
arising from the sale thereof be laid out in.the
purchase of other lands, advantageously for those
concerned and interested therein, that then, and
in that case, the said Thomas Strode is hereby
authorized, &c. to sell, and by proper deeds of
writing to convey the same; and the lands so purchased, shall be in every respect subject to all the
provisions, uses,, trusts, and contingencies, as
those were by him sold and conveyed. And it is
further understood by the parties, that the said
H. W. W.,under leave of the said Thomas Strode,
his heirs and assigns, shall occupy and enjoy the
hereby conveyed estate, real and personal, and
the iAsues and profits thereof, for and during the
term of his natural life, and after that, the said
estate tt be divided agreeably to the foregoing
contingencies"The property conveyed by the indenture consisted of about 350 acres of land, situate in Frederick county, in Virginia. The marriage took
effect, and there are now fou-. children by the marriage. For a short time after- the marriage,
Wormley nd his wife resided on the Frederick
lands; and a negotiation was then entered into
by Wormley and the trustee, for the exchange of
the Frederick lands for lands of the trustee, in the
county of Fauquier. Various reasons were sug-

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

4Z

gested for this exchange, the wishes of friends,
the proximity to the trustee and the other relations

of the wife, and the superior accommodations for
the family of Wormley.

54

'"/''

Wonaley

V.

The negotiation took Worrley.

effect; but no deed of conveyance or covenant of
agreement, recognising the exchange, was ever
made by Wormley; and no conveyance of any
sort, or declaration of trust, substituting the Fauquier lands for those in the marriage settlement,
was ever executed by the trustee. Wormley and
his family, however, removed to the FauquieA
lands, and resided on them for some time. During this residence, viz. on the 16th of September,
1810, the trustee sold the Frederick lands by an
indenture, to the defendant, Veitch, for the sum of
five thousand five hundred dollars; and to this
conveyance Wormley, for the purpose of signifying his approbation of the sale, became a party.
The circumstances of this transaction were as
follows: The trustee had become the owner of a
tract of land in Culpepper counir in Virginia,
subject to a mortgage to Veitch, and one Thompson, upon which more than $000 dollars were then
due, and a foreclosure had taken place. To discharge this debt, and relieve the Culpepper estate,
was a leading object of the sale, and so much of
the trust money as was necessary for the extinguishment of this debt, was applied for this purpose. At the same time, Strode, as collateral
security to Veitch for the performance of the covenant of general warranty contained in the indenture, executed a mortgage upon the Fauquier
lands, then in the possession of Wormley. In
VOL. VIII.

1823.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Wormley

V.

Wormley.

1811, Veitch conveyed the Frederick lands to the
Castleman and MICormick, for a large
pecuniary consideration, in pursuance of a previous agreement, and by the same deed made an

Sdefendants,

equitable assignment of the mortgage on the Fauquier lands. About this time, Wormley having become dissatisfied with the Fauquier lands, a negotiation took place for his removal to some lands of
the trustee in Kentudky; and upon that occasion
a conditional agreement was entered into between
the trustee and Wormley, for the purchase of a
part of the Kentucky lands, in lieu of the Fauquier
lands, at a stipulated price, if Wormley should, after
his removal there, be satisfied with them. Wormley accordingly removed to Kentucky with his
family; but becoming dissatisfied with the Kentucky lands, the agreement was never carried into
effect. Afterwards, in April, 1813, Castleman and
M'Cormick, by deed, released the mortgage on
the Fauquipr lands, in consideration, that Veitch
would enter into a general covenant of warranty
to them of the Frederick lands; and on the same
day, the trustee executed a deed of trust to one
Daniel Lee, subjecting the Kentucky lands to a
lien as security for the warranty in the conveyance
of the Frederick lands, and subject to that lien, to
the truss of the marriage settlement, if Wormley
should accept these lands, reserving, however, to
himself, a right to substitute any other lands upon
which to charge the trusts of the marriage settlement. At this period the dissatisfaction of Wormley was known to all the parties, and Wormley
was neither a party, nor aasented to the deed; and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

427

Castleman and M'Cormick had not paid the pur- 1823.
chase money. In August, 1-813, the trustee sold Wormley
the Fauquier lands to certain persons by the name W.
of Grimmar and Mundell, without making any Wormlay.
other provision for the trusts. of the marriage settlement.
At the -hearing, the Court below pronounced a
decree, declaring, " that the exchange of land
made between the defendants, Hugh W. Wormley and Thomas Strode, is not valid in equity,
and that the defendant, Thomas Strode, has committed a breach of trust in selling the land conveyed to him by the deed of the 5th of August,
1807, for purposes not warranted by that deed, in
misapplying the money produced by the said sale,
and in failing to settle other lands to the same
trusts as were created by the said deed; and that
the defendants, Richard Veitch, David C astleman,
and Charles M'Cormick, are purchasers, with notice of the facts which constitute the breach of
trust committed by the said Thomas Strode, and
are, therefore, in equity, considered as trustees;
and that the defendants, David Castleman, and
Charles M'Cormick, do hold the land conveyed,
&c. charged with the trusts in the said deed mentioned, until a Court of equity shall decree a conveyance thereof. The Court is further of opinion,
that the said defendants are severally accountable
for the rents and profits arising out of the said
trust property while in possession thereof, and that
the said defendants, Castleman and M'Cormick,
are entitled to the amount of the encumbrances
from which the land has been relieved by any of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the defendants, and of the value of the 'permanent
made thereqn, and of the advances
which have been made to the said Hugh Wallace
V.
woemey. Wormley, by any of the defendants, for the support of his family; the said advances to be credited
against therents and profits, and the value of the
said permanent improvements, and of the encumbrances which have been diseharged, and which
may not be abated by the rents and profits, to be
charged on the land itself; and it is referred to
One of the. commissioners of the Court to take
accounts according to their directions, and report," &c.
The Court, afterwards, partially confirmed the
report which had been made, reserving some questions for its future decision : " and it being represented on the part of the plaintiffs, that they have
removed to the State of Kentucky, and are about
removing to the State of Mississippi, and that it
will be highly advantageous to them to sell the trtmt
estate, and to invest the proceeds of sale in other
lands in the Stater of Mississippi, to the. uses and
trusts ,xpressed in the deed of August 5, 1807; and
it aplIearing, also, that there is no fund other than
the trust estate from which the sum due to the defendants, Castleman and M'Cormick, can be drawn,
this' Court is further of opinion,"that the said trust
estate ought to be sold, and the proceeds of sale,
after paying the sum due to the defendants, Castleman and M'Cormiek, invested in other lands in
the State of Mississippi, to the same uses and
trusts," &c. The sale, therefore, was decreed;
commissioners were appointed to make it; the
182&3.

Wormley Simprovements

OF THE UNITED STATES.

429

proceeds to be first applied in satisfaction of the 1825.
sums found due by the commissioner's report, and Wormley
the balance to be paid to the trustee, to be invested
v.
WorWICy.
he
which
"for
Mississippi,
in
by him in lands lying
shall take a conveyance to himself in trust, for the
uses and trusts expressed in the deed of 5th of
August, 1807, &c. and the Court being of opinion,
that Thomas Strode is an unfit person to remain
the trustee of the plaintiff, doth further order, that
he shall no longer act in that character," &c. and
proceed to appoint another in his stead, of whom
bond and surety was required.
So much of this last decretal order as directs a
sale of the property therein mentioned, was suspended until the further order of the Court, (,unless
the said David Castleman and Charles M'Cormick, shall sign and deliver to the marshal, or his'
deputy, who is directed to make the said sale, an
instrument of writing, declaring, that should the
decree rendered in this cause be reversed in whole
or in part, they will not claim restitution of the
lands sold, but will consent to receive in lieu
thereof, the money for which the same may be
sold ; which instrument of writing the marshal is
directed to receive, and to file among the papers
in the cause in this Court."
So much of the decretal order as directs the
land to be sold to the highest bidder, was subsequently set aside, and until the appointment of a
trustee, the marshal directed to receive propositions for the land, and to report the same to the
Court, which would give such further directions respecting the sale of the said land as shall then ap-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v
Wormley
V.

W"o'ley.

pear proper. Whereupon, the defendants appealed
from all the decrees pronounced in the cause.

Mr. Jones, for the appellants, argued, 1. That
Feb. I8t. in point of fact, all the arrangements of the trustee for exchanging and disposing of the trust
estate, were not only fair and honest, but a discreet
exercise of his authority; highly beneficial to the
cestui que trusts, and entirely to their advantage.
2. That whether they were so or not, was no
concern of the purchasers under the trustee: he
being invested, by the terms of the trust, with a
clear discretion, which invited all the world to
treat with him, as with one having a complete authority to act upon his own opinion of what was
discreet and expedient in the administration of the
trust, and not as with one executing a defined
duty or authority, either purely ministerial, or
mixed with a limited digeretion over the subordinate details..
3. That the selling of the trust estate, and the
inveting of the proceeds, were, in their nature,
and by the.terms of the deed,.to be two distinct
substantive acts in the exercise of the discretionary
authority vested in the trustee; and were not to
be done unoflatu: therefore the purchaser claiming a title under one consummate act in the exercise of that discretion, was not responsible for
any subsequent indiscretion or fraud of the trustee,
in the progressive execution of the trust. Wherever the deed confers an immediate power of sale,
for a purpose which cannot be immediately defned and ascertained, but must be postponed for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

any period of time, however short, the purchaser 1823.
is not bound to see to the application of the pur- Wormley
chase money. a It is observed by Sir W. Grant,
V.
Master of the Rolls, that the doctrine, binding Wormley.
the purchaser to see to the application of the
money, has been carried farther than any sound
equitable principle will warrant.' But it has never
been extended to a case like the present, where
the mode in which the i6ioney is to be invested,
depends upon a variety of contingent and complicated circumstances, which are submitted to the
judgment and discretion of the trustee. Where
the trust is, to pay debts and legacies, the purchaser is discharged by payment to a trustee.'
But it might, perhaps, be said, that the authority
to sell is combined with that to apply the proceeds.
But he contended that they were entirely independent and unconnected. They might indeed
be associated in the mind of the trustee, but that
remaining a secret in his breast, could not affect
an innocent purchaser with the consequences
of any subsequent error or fraud of the trustee.
Where indeed the cestui que trust is no party to
the sale, nor to the original deed creating the
trust, there may be more room for the application
of the doctrine, as to the purchaser seeing to the
application of the money. Such are deeds of assignment for the payment of debts, in which the
creditors are frequently not, originally, parties.
a Balfour v. Weland, 16 Ve8. 150.
b 1&156.
r Co. Itt. 290 b.

Budi. Notel. s. 12.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

M

And in the case cited, the Master of the Rolls
-says, that the circumstance of the creditorsi-oming
\
in-and executing the deed, consummates the auWobyV.
WOMIey, thoiity of the trustee, to give a valid discharge for
the purchase money of an estate sold by him."
But here the cestui que trusts are not only parties
to the deed creating the trust, but assenting to the
very transaction now complained of.
4. So that if the mere discretion of the trustee
benot competent, per se, strictly to justify the purchasersunder him; and to protect their title; still,
the peculiar circumstances of this case give them
a superinduced equity against the claims of the
ce&fi que trusts: let. The previous consultation
and delibeorteapprobhtion-of the respective parents,
and other disinterested friends of such of the cestui
quw twst as were ui jU7Zs. 2dly. The agency
of those who were suijuris, in soliciting and recommeiiding the-'measure in question, their active
co-operation in. it, and their subsequent acquiesceace. Sdly. The approbation of the parents of
such of theoestui qyew rustsas were not sui juri&
These circumstances would .have afforded sufficient evidence of the expediency of the measure.
to hie induced a Court of Chindery, upon the
applic6afio n of the prtieq, ;to have sanctioned and
ditected it. Coiqieuently, all the'preseitpleiu.
to equitable
ifi -are devestd of 'every .premsion
relief: and so.farasthec.iiuis.urged for the advantage of those who were sd justfs, and who, by
their active co-operatiQ and implicit acquiescence
182 .

a BUfourv. We6ig10,V6s. 157.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

encouraged and promoted the sale, it must be re- 1823
pudiated by the Court as inequitable and uncon- Worm]"
scientious. Wormley and wife were the efi~ieut
v.
cestui que'trusts. The equitable proprietary i
w
o
terest was in them. They were both sui juris.
A -married woman is considered as a feme sole as
to property settled to her use, whether in possession or reversion, and she may dispose of it, unless
particularly restrained by the terms of the settlement.a

There is no such universal, inflexible rule, as
that the trustee cannot change the trust estate.
If he had a diseretionary power, it signifies not
how the payment was made, and whether a credit
was given or not. Nor is this such a purihase, by
the trustee himself, as will invalidate the sale in
respect to bomzfidei purchasers.c It is not a sale
by himself t6 himself. He does not unite both
the characters of vendor and vendee, and, therefore, it does not-involve the mischiefs meant to be
corrected by the rule. The consent .of the cestui
que trztsts who are sui juris, confirms -the sale, at
least as to these innocent purchasers.
5. Bet if all these positions should be overruled,
a Sturge s v. Corp, 13 Ves. 190. [See, on the subject of the
power of a fame eovert over her separate estate, the Methodist

Episcoaa.Chwuch v. Jaqs,
3 Jots. Gh.Rep. 77. and Ewing
v.Smit, s Desausur'sRep. 417.]
6 2 FonbL .q. 88. note f.
1 FonbL Eq. 191-196. Fraser v. Bailey, 1 Bro. Cl Rep. 517.
c IVWhitecote v. Lawrence, 3 Yes. jr. 740. Lister v. Lister,
6 Yes. 631. EparteJames, 8 Yes. S48. Coles v. Trecothick,
9 Ves. 246. Randall v. Erringtoq, 16 Ves. 423.
VOL. VIH.

55

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

he insisted, that the decree of. the Court below
erroneous in its details: because it should,
Wovrrley in the first instance, have decreed, as against the
Worm"ley. trustee himself, an execution of the trust; and, in
Swas.

the alternative of his failure and inability, the repayment of the purchase money by Veitch, the
original purchaser from the trustee; and the land
in the hands of the appellants, Castleman and
M'Cormick, who were purchasers with a general
warranty from Veitch, as he was from the trustee,
should have been the last resource, after the others
had been exhausted; and then only to raise the
money due, giving Castleman and M'Cormick an
option to retain the land by paying the money;
instead of decreeing the land to be sold at all
events for the benefit of the cestui que trusts.
The appellants ought not to have been held
to account for the mesne profits; because Wormley, the only person yet entitled to receive them,
was a party to the sale, and was clearly competent
to alien the estate, and the rents and profits, during
his life; he being sole cestui que trust for life;
and thus, if the sale is to be set aside at all for
the benefit of his wife and children, it can only
be to the extent of protecting and securing their
future and contingent- interests.
6. He also contended, that the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Wormley, the
husband, is made a party defendant, though he is
a citizen of the same State with his wife and infant children, who are plaintiffs.9
a Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3 Cranch'a Rep. 267.
of New-Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. R&p. 94.

Corporatioa

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Attorney General, contra, argued, 1. That
the trustee had broken every one of the trusts he
had undertaken to perform, on assuming the fidu-

ciary character. If he, therefore, were now in
the actual possession of the Frederick lands, if
he had conveyed them, and taken back a reconveyance to his own use, there could be no question, that a Court of equity would hold these
lands in his possession subject to the original
trusts. But if the appellants purchased with
knowledge-of the trusts, and of the breach of trust,
equity converts them into trustees, with all the
liabilities of the original trustee.a He argued
upon the. facts to show, that they were chargeable
with this-knowledge. Although they had denied,
in the answer, all fraud on their own part, and all
knowledge of fraud in others, yet they do not deny
a knowledge of such facts as affects them with the
consequences of the trustee's misconduct.
2. It may be laid down as a general proposition, that. trustees are incapable of becoming the
purchasers of the trust subject. The two characters of buyer and seller are inconsistent: Emptor
emit quam minimo potest, 'oenditrr vendit quam
maziino potest.' Where the trust is for persons
not suijuris,as fenms covert, infants, and the like,
the Court will, under no circumstances whatever,
be they ever so fair between the parties, (as consuiting friends, &c.) confirm a.purchase of the
a Adair v. Shaw, 1 Scho. 4- Left. 862. Sanders 3. Dehew,
2 Vern. 271. 2 PonbL Eq. 152. 15 Ves. 350. Bovey v. Smith,
I Vern. 149. S.C.2 Cas. in Ch. 124.
-b Sugd. 'end. 422, 423. and cases there cited.

1823.
v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

trust property by the trustee, unless it be done
the immediate authority and sanction of the
f.7 Court.a It cannot be established even by a sale
WormI1y. at public auction, or before a master.' The only
Sunder

hnode in which it can be done, is by a previous
decree of permission, which the Court will not
grant, unless where it is clearly for the benefit of
the cestui que trust. A sale made without such
permission, may, or may not, be confirmed, at the
option of the cestui que trust And in order to
set aside a purchase by a trustee, it is not necessary to-show, that he has made any advantage by
his purchase. But the whole of this subject has
been so thoroughly examined by Mr. Chancellor
Kent, in several cases determined by him, that it
is -unnecessary to do more than to give the Court a
general reference to the authoritieff cited by him!
The rule is hpplicable with peculiar force to the
present case, because here the purchase was not
under the sanction of the Court, nor at a master's
89b, nor at auction, where the trustee resists a fair
cbmpetitioi; there was no payment of the purdbhge money to the use of any of the cestuis quw
t ; and (if we were bound to show, that the
trustee has made an advantage) he has made all
a Davidson, v. Gardner.

6 Strl. Vend. 427.
e I. 432.
d 5Ve. 678. 6 Pef 631.
e Ex pare James, 8

'en. S48.

Ex parte Bennett, 10 Ves.

SO3.
f Gieen v. Winter, 1 Joms. Ch. Re&p. 27. Schiefflih v. Stewart,
i. 620. Davoue v. Fanning, 2 Joms. Ch. ep. 252.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

4a7

the advantage. If Strode had been a trustee 1&2S.
merely for. the purpose of sale, he could not have wyonnky
V.
acquired the trust fund by purchase. But his was
Worm'ei.
sell,
to
power
a
it
was
to
sell;
not a mere power
whenever he could, in his honest Qpinion, invest
the proceeds of the sale advantageously iii other
lands, -to be settled to the same uses. The sale,
without a rinvestment, was a breach of trust.
Those who purchased under him had notice of
the breach of trust.
3. The general principle is, that a purchaser
from a trustee is bound to see to the applicatioi
of the purchase money. But that principle is
stated with this limitation, that he is only thus
bound where the trust is of a defined and limited
nature, and not where it is general and unlimited,
as a trust for the payment of debts generally.a
That -is, if the trust be of such a nature that the
purchaser may reasonably be' expected to see to
the application of the purchase money, as if it
be for the payment of legacies, or of debts which
are scheduled or specified, the purchaser is bound
to see that the money is applied accordingly; and
that, although the estate be' sold under a decree
of a Court of equity, or by virtue of an act of
parliament.' And Mr. Sugden says, that those
laost strongly disposed to narrow this rule, do still
hold, that where the act is a breach of*duty in the
trtustee, it isvery fit that those who deal with him
should be affected by an act tending to defeat the
a Sugd. Vend. 367.

b Id,s68.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

trust of which they have notice.a This is what
W. Grant says, in the case cited on the other
Wormley Sir
V. side, with this addition, that "where the sale is
Wormley. made by the trustee, in performance of his duty,
it seems extraordinary that he should not be able
tp do what one should think incidental to the right
exercise of his power; that is, to give a valid discharge for the purchase 'noney." 'b But here the
sale was made, not in performance of the trustee's
duty, but in violation of it; and the supposed assent of the husband and wife, to the breach of
trust, will not cure it.0
1823.

Mfarch 12th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court ; and, after stating the case, proceeded as
follows:
Such is the general outline of the case; and in
the progress of the investigation, it may become
necessary to advert to some other facts with more
particularity.
And the first question arising upon this posture
of -the case is, whether Strode, the trustee, by
the sale to Veitch, has been guilty of any breach
of trust. And this seems to the Court to be
scarcely capable of controversy. That there are
circumstances in the case, which raise a presumption of bad faith on the part of the trustee, and
expose him to some suspicion, cannot escape observation. But assuming him to have acted with
a Sugd. Vend. 373.
b Balfour v. Willard, 16 Vea. 151.
c Thayer v. Gold, 1 .4tk. 615.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

entire good faith, 'his proceedings were a plain 1823.
departure from his duty. In respect to the supposed exchange of the Fauquier for the Frederick WoT.ney
lands, it is impossible for a moment to admit its Wormley.
The
validity. In the first place, it was not made
of theez chang
Frede• n-Tbe•
tween parties competent to make it. Wormley ic, for oter
Invuld.
had no authority over the estate, after the marriage land,
settlement. The chief object of that settlement
was to secure the property to the use of the wife
and children, during the joint lives of the husband
and wife. And though it is said, in another part
of the deed, that Wormley shall occupy.and enjoy
the estate, and the issues and profits thereof, during his life, yet this was to be under leave of the
trustee; and to suppose that he thus acquired an
equitable interest for life, is to defeat the manifest
and direct intention of the other clauses in the
deed, which avow the whole object to be the security of the estate, during the same period, for
the use of the wife and children. The true and
natural construction of this clause is-, that it points
to the discretion which the trustee may exercise,
as to allowing the husband to occupy the estate,
and take the profits for the maintenance of.the
family, whenever the trustee perceives it may be
safely done, without involving the trustee in any
responsibility, to which be might be exposed, by
such a permission, without such an authority.
But, at all events, the right to dispose of the
equitable fee to any one, much less to the trustee
himself, did not exist in Wormley; and any exchange attempted to be made by him, however
beneficial, would have been utterly void. But no

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

exchange was in fact consummated. It is true,
" v- that the removal to the Fauquier lands took place
Wormley
V. upon an agreement to this effect; but no definiWonnley. tive conveyance was ever made; and the trustee
1823.

himself never settled, and never took a step towards settling, the Fauquier estate upon the
trusts of the marriage settlement, as it was his
indispensable duty to do, if he meant to conduct
himself correctly. As to the substituted Kentucky lands, the transaction was still more delusive. The agreement for the substitution was
merely conditional, depending upon the subsequent election of W6rmley, and his dissent put
an end to it. As to the conveyance to Lee, ostensibly for the trusts of the settlement, it can be
viewed in no other light than an attempt to cover
up the most unjustifiable proceedings. That conveyance was not executed until after the dissent and dissatisfaction of Wormley were well
known; and so far from its containing any valid
performance of the trusts, it expressly gives
a prior lien to the purchasers of the Frederi6k lands as security for their covenant of warranty; and to complete the delusion, the trustee
reserved to himself the authority to substitute any
other lands, leaving the trusts to float along, without fixing them definitively upon any solid foundation. If we add, that the Fauquier lands were
mortgaged to the purchasers for the same covenabt;
and that -this mortgage was discharged only for
the purpose of selling the property to Grimmar
and Mundell, we shall come irresistibly to the
conclusion, that the trustee never was in a situa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion to give an unencumbered title on either the
Fauquier or Kentucky
lands, to secure the trusts
.
and that if he was, he never in fact executed any

1823.
- Wormlty
W.

conveyance for thispurpose. In every view, there- Worm.
fore, of' this part of the case, it is clear, that no
valid exchange did, or could take place; and that
as there was no equitable or legal transmutation
-of the property from the cestuis que trust, it remained in the trustee, clothed -withall the original
fiduciary interests.
But, independent of these considerations, there Rule,that

a

is a stubborn rule'of equity, founded upon the purchas,
pcuffarly opplimost solid reasoning, and supported by pu.blic cable'
to ,ts
No c as "
poli-y, which forbade any such exchange.

rule.is better settled than that a trustee cannot
become a purchaser of the trust estate. He cannot be at once vendor and vendee. He cannot
represent in himself two opposite and conflicting
interests. As vendor he must always desire to
sell as high, and as purchaser to buy as low, as
possible; and the law has wisely prohibited any
person from assuming such dangerous and incompatible characters. If there be any exceptions to
the generality of the rule, they are not such as
can affect the present case. On the contrary, if'
there be any cogency in the rule itself, this is a
strong case for its application; for, by the very
terms of the settlement, the trustee was invested
with a large discretion, and a peculiar and exclusive confidence was placed in his judgment. Of
necessity, therefore, it was contemplated, that his
judgment should be free and impartial, and unbiassed by personal interests. The asserted exVOL. VI11.

56

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'-v-",,

Wormiley

v.

change, so far at least as it affects to justify or
confirm the proceedings of the trustee, may, there-

fore, beat once laid out of the question.
Then, was the sale to Veitch a breach of trust ?
sale The power given to the trustee by the settlement

WorWley.
The

tVeich, abraanunsainistms

certainly very broad and unusual in its terms
but it is not unlimited. The trustee had not an
unrestricted authority to sell, but only when, in
his opinion, the purchase money might be laid out
advantageously for the cestui qzie trust. It is true,
the sale and reinvestment are to be decided by his
opinion; which is an invisible operation of the
mind. But his acts, nevertheless, are subject to
the scrutiny of the law ; and if that opinion has not
been fairly and honestly exercised, if it has been
swayed by private interests and selfish objects,
if the sale has been at a price utterly disproportidnate to the real value of the property, and the
evidence demonstrate such facts, a Court of vqtity
will not sanction an act which thus becomes a
fraud up~on innocent parties.
Much ingenuity has been exercised in a critical
How far the
purchaser is
bound to see examination of the nature of the power itself, as
to the applicaIt is contion ofthe pur- it stands in the text of the settlement.
chase money
tended, that the acts of sale, and of reinvestmenlt,
are separate and distinct acts, and the power to
sell is, therefore, to be disjoined from that ofrepurchase, so that the sale may be good, though the
purchase money should be misapplied. How far
a bonce fidei purchaser is bound, in a case like the
present, to look to the application of the purchase
money, need not be decided in this case. There
is much reason in the doctrine, that where the

breach oftrust. is

OF THE UNITED STATES.

trust is defin.d in its object, and the prohase
money is to be reinvested upon trusts which remoney

1823.

isWormley

quire time and discretion, or the acts of sale and
v.
reinvestment are manifestly contemplated to be Wonnley.
at a distance from each other, the purchaser shall
not be bound to look to the application of the purchase money; for the trustee is clothed with a
discretion in the management of the trust fund,
and if any persons are to suffer by his misconduct,
it should be rather those who have reposed confidence, than those who.have boughit under an apparently authorized act. But, in the present case,
it seems difficult to separate the acts from each
other. The sale is not to be made, unless a reinvestment can, in the opinion of the trustee, be
advantageously made. He is not to sell upon
mere general speculation, but for the purpose of
direct reinvestment. And it is very difficult to*
perceive how the trustee could arrive at the conclusion, that it was proper to sell, unless he had,
at the same time, fixed on some definite reinvestment, which, compared with the former estate,
would be advantageous to the parties. Although,
therefore, the acts of sale, and purchase, are to
be distinct, they are connected with each other;
and, at least as to the trustee,.there cannot be an
exercise of opinion, such as the trust contemplated,
unless he had viewed them in connexion. If he
should sell without baving any settled intention to
buy, leaving that to be governed by future events,
he would certainly violate the confidence reposed
in him. Afortiori, if he should sell with an intention not to reinvest, but to speculate, for the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

purpose of relieving his own necessities, or of apSpropriating the trust fund indefinitely to his own

Wormleyv. uses.

WoIrmley.

Now, in point of fact, what has the trustee
done in this case ? He has sold the trust property
to pay his own debts. He has never applied the
proceeds to any reinvestment. To this very hour
there has been no just and fair application of the
purchase money. The Fauquier lands are gone,
the Kentucky lands have been rejected, and are
loaded with liens; and there is nothing left but
the personal responsibility of the trustee, emlfarTassed and distressed as he must be taken to be,
unless the trusts -are still fastened to the Frederick lands. Can it it then be contended for a
moment, that there is no breach of trust, when
the sale was not for the purposes of reinvestment?
"Whenthe party puts his right to sell, not upon an
honest exercise of opinion at the time of sale, but
upon a distinct anterior transaction, invalid and
incomplete, by vhich he became clothed with the
beneficial interest of the estate ? When he claims
to be, not the disinterested trustee, selling the
estate, but the trustee purchasing by exchange
-thetrust fund, and thus entitled to deal with it aceording to his own discretion, and for his own private accommodation, as absolute owner? Where the
purchase money is to be applied to extinguish his
own debts; and there is no proof of his means to
4eplenisb, or acquire an equal sum from other
sources? In the judgment of the Court, the sale,
was a manifest breach of trust. It was in no proper serse an execution of the power. The power,

QF THE UNITED STATES.

in the contemplation of the trustee, -was virtually
extinguished.

He sold, not because he intended

an advantageous reinvestment; but becauseL he

445
1823.
Wonnley

V.

considered himself the real owner of the Pstate. Wormley.

The very letter, as well as the spirit of the power,
was, therefore, violated;* for the trustee never
exercised an opinion upon that, which was the
sole object of the power to sell, an advantageous
reinvestment.
The next point for consideration is, whether
the defendants, Veitch, and Castleman and M'Cormick, were bone fidei purchasers of the Frederick lands, without notice of the breach of trust.
If they had notice of the facts, they are necessarily affected with notice of the law operating upon
those facts; and their general denial of all knowledge 6f fraud, will not help them, if, in point of
law, the transaction is repudiated by a Court of
equity.* If they were boncfidei purchasers, without notice, their title might have required a very
different consideration.
Theof the
putcba.
And first, as to Veitch. The deed to him con- sets
trust
tain'd a recital of the marriage settlement, and poPt affcoted with nothe power authorizing the sale. He, therefore, icaof the
oftrust,
had direct and positive notice of the title of the breach
!oastlovalidate the sale
trustee to the property. There is the strongestt them.
reason to believe that he was fully cognizant of
the exchange of the Frederick and Fauquier lands,
negotiated between Wormley and the trustee.
The certificate from Wormley, respecting the
exchange, and expressing satisfaction with it,
which was procured a few days. before the sale,
and which Veitch now produces, shows that he

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. most have had a knowledge of the exchange. Its
" "'~apparent object wasto ascertain the state of the
woV.Iy title. The removal of the Wormley family, and
Wonmey. their known residence, at this time, on the Fau-

.quier lands, strengthen, this presumption. If he
knew of -the exchange, he could not but know,
that he -purchased of the trustee an estate, which
he claimed as his own, in a bargain with an unauthorized person) and that the trustee was, at the
same time, the vendor and purchaser. He also
knew that'the sale to himseJf was not in executio of the power, or for the purpose of reinvestment; for, according to the other facts, the exchange had already effected that, and no further
reinvestment was contemplated. He iook a mortgage, as additional security, for the warranty, on
'the sale of the Fauquier lands, not even now al"leging,that he did not know their identity. And,
-nder these circumstances, he could not but
know, that there had been no actual conveyance
or declaration of trust of the Fauquier lands, in
execution of the trust, for, otherwise, the trustee
dould not have mortgaged them to him. He therefore stood by, taking a conveyance from the trustee of the trust, estate, knowing at the same time
that no reinvestment had been made, which
could be effectuEd, and that no reinvestment was
qontemplated as the object of the sale; and, as far
as his mortgage could go, he meant to obtain a
priority of security, that should ride over any future declaration of trust.
This is not all. The very sale of the trust fund
was to be, not for reinvestment, but to pay a large

OF THE UNITED STATES.

447

debt due to himself, upon which a decree of fore- 1823.
closure of a mortgaged estate had been obtained; WYornley
V.
and he could not be ignorant that the application
Wormley.
violaa
was
purpose,
a
such
of the trust fund to
tion of the settlement, and afforded a strong presumption that the trustee had no other adequate"
means of discharging the debt, or of buying other
lands advantageously in the market. And yet,
with notice of all these facts, the deed itself, from
the trustee to Veitch, contains a recital, that the
sale was made "with the intention of investing
the proceeds of such sale in other lands, of equal
or greater value." This was utterly untrue, and
could not escape the attention of the parties.
Veitch then had full knowledgi of all the material
facts, and he does not even den, it in his answer;
for that only denies the inferenci of fraud, which
is a mere conclusion of law from the facts, as they
are established. Purchasing, the.i, with a full
knowledge of the rights of Mrs. ,Vormley and
her children, and of the breach 'Of Lrust, Veitch
cannot now claim shelter in a Court of equity, as
a bonte ftei purchaser for a valuable considera-"
tion.
The next question is, whether Castleman and
M'Cormick are not in the same predicament. In
the judgment of the Court, they clearly are.
They purchased from Veitch, whose deed gave
them full notice of the trust, and they could not
be ignorant of the recital in it, since their title referred them to it. They must have perceived,
that the sale to Veitch, in order to be valid, must
have been with a view to reinvestment of the pur-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

chase money in other real estate. It was natural
them to inquire; whether the sale had been
made under justifiable circumstances, and whether
there had been any such reinvestment. Previous
to the sale to Veitch, they had entered into a negotiation with the trustee himself, for a direct
purchase of the Frederick lands; and on that occasion became acquainted with the fact, that the
trustee was largely indebted to Veitch, and that
one object.of the sale was to apply the proceeds
to the payment of that debt. How then could
they be ignorant, that the proceeds of the sale,
which was .very soon afterwards made to Veiteh,
were to be applied to extinguish the same debt,
and that the transfer was not in execution of the
trust, but to administer to the trustee's own necessities? This is not all. Before the execution of
the deed to them, they knew of-the arrangement
respecting the Fauquier lands, and that Wormley
had become dissatisfied with the bargain. They
knew that these lands had not been settled by the
trustee upon the trusts of the settlement, and they
took an equitable* assignment of the mortgage
from Veitch of the same. lands. It may be said,
that'the evidence of these facts is not positively
made out in the .record; but if.it be not, the circumstantial evidence fully supports the conclusion.
The answer itself of Castleman and M'Cormick,
does not deny notice of these facts. It states,
indeed, that they supposed the transaction with
Veitch fair, because they were satisfied that the
trustee never received more from Veitch than
what he has given the cestuig que trnut credit for.

WornileyY
* 'for
Worrley.

449

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Was it a fair execution of the trust, -so to sell the 1823.
estate, and to give credit for the proceeds ? To 'Wormley
' I
V.
apply them to pay the trustee's debts, and relieve
.Wormley.
indefinite
any
without
sell
his necessities ? To
tention as to a reinvestment? They also deny
all knowledge of fraud. But this is a mere general denial, and does not negative the knowledge
of the facts, from which the law-may infer fraud.
The subsequent conduct of Castleman and
M'Cormick shows, that they were not indifferent
to the exectition of' the trust; but that they felt
no interest to secure the rights of the cestuis quc
trust. They were privy to the removal to Kentucky, and exhibited much anxiety to have it accomplished. They knew subsequently the dissatisfaction of Wormley with that removal, and with
the Kentucky lands. Yet they, in the year 1813,
relieved the Fauquier lands from their own encumbrance, and enabled the trustee to dispose of
it for other purposes than the fulfilment of the
trusts for which it had been originally destined.
Aid throughout the whole, their conduct exhibits
an intimate acquaintance with the nature of their
own title, and the manner and circumstances
undr-which it had been acquired by Veitch, and
the objections to which it might be liable. And
they ultimately took the general warranty of Veitch,
upon releasing their claim on the Fauquier lands,
as a securitv for its validity.
A 6-Jidei
There is a still stronger view which may be purchaser
withoutnofice,
taken of this subject. It is a settled rule in equity, mus~t
so
be
that a.purchaser without notice, to be entitled to down to the
ofrm the

protection, must not only be so at. the time of the payMenot

the

purchare mo.

VOL. VIII.

57'

ney.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

\

contract or cmveyance, but at the time of the payment of the purchase money The answer of
Wormley
v.
Castleman and M'Cormick doe not even allege
Wormley. any such want of notice. On the contrary, it is
v

in proof, that upwards of 3000 dollar's of the pprchase money was paid in the- autihmn of 1813,
and the spring of 18,14. And this was not only
after full notice of "the anterior transactions,* but
after the commencement of the preden- suit.
It appears to us, theref'ore, that the circumstances
of the case can lead.to no other result, than that
Casileman and M'Cormick were not purchasers
without notice of the material facts constituting
the breach of trust; and that. therefore, the Frederick lands ought in their hands to stand charged
with the trusts in the marriage settlement. The
leading principle of the decree in the Circuit
Court was, therefore, right.
Some objections have been taken to the subordinate details of that decree; but it appears to us,
that the objections cannot be sustained. The
decree directs an account of the rents and profits
of the Frederick lands, while in possession of The
defenddats. It further directs an allowance of the
amoont of all encumbrances which have been discharged by the defendants, and of the value of
any permanent improvements made thereon, 4nd
also of any advances made for the support of
Wormley's family. These advances are to be
credited against- the. rents and profits; and the
value-of the improvements, and of the discharged
encumbrances, not recouped by the rents and profits, are t be a charge on the land itself. A more

OF THE UNITED STATES.

451

liberal decree could not, in our opinion, be re- 1823.
quired by any reasonable view of the case.
An objection has been taken to the jurisdiction Wor.ey
of the Court, upon the ground, that Wormley, the Wormiey.
of
husband, is made a defendant, and so all the par- the.r i.ction
Court 'not
of ffcted by the
ties on each side of the cause are not citizens
• . • . Joinder of

different States, since he has the same citizenship me
as his wife and minor children.

But Wormley is pauie,

but a nominal defendant, joined for the sake of
conformity in the bill, against whom no decree is
sought. He voluntarily appeared, though, perhaps, he could not have been compelled so to do.
Under these circumstances, the objection has no
good foundation. This Court will not suffer its
jurisdiction to. be ousted by the mere joinder or
non-joinder of formal parties; but will rather
proceed without them, and decide upon the merits
of the case between the parties, who have the real
interests before it, whenever it can be done without.prejudice to the rights of others."
a. Phe.general rule and its exceptions, as to who are necessary
parties to a bill in equity, are so fully and clearly laid down by
Mr. Justice S'roRy, in the case of West v. Randall,(2 Mason'8
Rep:.- 1-190.) and the principles of practice asserted in the
judgment, are so closely connected with the above position in the
principal case in the text, that the editor has thought fit to subjoin
the foiwing extract. It is only necessary to state, that the case
was of. a bill filed by an heir or next of kin fora distributive share
of an estate,
"1It is a general rule in equity, that all persons materially interested, either as plaintiffs or defendants, in the subject matter of the
bill, ought to be nade parties to the suit, bowever numerous they
may be. The reason is, that the Court may be enabled to make
a complete decree between the parties, may prevent future litiga--

formal

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
' W.orml~ey
Ie

Mr. Justice

JOHNSON..

After the most careful

examination of this voluminous record, I think it

V.

Wormley.

tion, by taking away the necessity of a multiplicity of suits, and
*may make it perfectly certain, that no injustice shall be done,
either to the parties before the Court, or to othert, who are interested by a decree, that may be grounded upon a partial view only
of the real merits. (Mitf. Pl. 29. 144. 220. Coop. Eq. Pl. 33.
'c. 185. 2 Madd. 142. Gilh. For.Rom. 157, 158. 1 Harris.
Ch. Fr. ch. 3. p. 25. Newt. Edit. Leigh v. Thomas, 2 Ves.
312. Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Fee. 321. Beaumont v. Meredith, 3 Ves. and Beamee, 180. Hamrm v. Stevens, 1 Vern.
110.) When all the parties are before the Court, it can see the
whole case; but it may not, where all the conflicting interests are
npt brought out upon the bill. Gilbert, in his Forum'Romanum,
p. 157. states the rule, and illustrates it with great precision.
IIf,' says he, I it appears to the Court, that a very necessary party
is wanting; that without him no regular, decree can be made; as
where a man seeks for an account of the profits or sale of a real
estate, and it appears upon the pleadings, that the defendant is only
tenant for life, and consequently the tenant in tail cannot be bound
by the decree; and where one legatee brings a bill against an execitor, and there are many other legatees, none of which will be
bound either by the decree, or by the account to be taken of the
testator's effects, and each of these legatees may draw the account
in question over again at their leisure; or where several persons
are entitled, as next of kin, under the statute of distributions, and
only one of them is brought on to a hearing; or where a man is
entitled to the surplus of an estate, under a will, after payment of
debts, and is not brought on; or where the real estate is to be sold
under a will, and the heir at law is not brought on. In these, and
all 6ther cases, where the decree cannot be made uniform, far %z
on the one hand, the Court will do the plaintiff right, so, on the
other hand, they will take care .that the defendant is not doubly
vexed, he shall not be left under precarious circumstances, because
of the plaintiff, who might have made all proper parties, and
whose fault it was that it was not done.' The cases here put are
very appropriate to the case at bar. That in respect to legatees,
probably refers to the case of a suit by one residuary leguse,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

due to the parties defendant, to express the opinion, that I cannot discover any evidence of fraud
in any part of their transactions.

455
182a.
v.
Wormley.

where there are other residuary legatees; in which case it has
often been held, that all must be joined in the suit. (Parsons v.
Neville, 3 Bro. CA. Cas. 365. Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Ves.
321. Sherritt v. Birch, 3 Bro. Ch. 229. Alward v. Hawkins,
Rep. T. Fin, 113. Brown v. Ricket%, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 553.)
But where a legatee sues for a specific legacy, or for a sum certain
on the face of the will, it is not in general necessary, that other
legatees should be made parties, for no decree could be had against
them, if brought to a hearing; (Haycock v. Haycock, 2 Ch. Cas.
124. Danstall v. Rabett, Finch, 243. Attorney General v. Ryder, 2 Ch. Cas. 178. Atwood v. Hawkins, Rep. F. Finch, 118.
Wainwright v. Waterman, 1 Ves. jr. 311.) and in general, no
person, against whom, if brought to a hearing, no decree could
be had, ought to be made a party. (De Golls v. Ward, 3 P. JFmr.
210. Note.) And when a party is eititled to an aliquot proportion only of a certain sum in the hands of trustees, if the propof.
tion and the sum be clearly ascertained, and fixed upon the face of
the trust, it has been held, that he may file a bill to have it transferred to him, without making the per.sons entitled to the other aliquot shares of the fund, parties. (Smith v. Snow, 3 Madd. Rep.
10.) -The reason is the same as above stated, for there is nothing
to controvert with the other cestuis qze trust. I am aware that
it has been stated by an eledientary writer of .considerable character, that one of the next of kin of an intestate may sue for his
distributive shar, and the master will be directed by the decree,

to inquire and state to the Court, who are all the next of kin, and
they may come in under the decree. (Coop. Eq. Pt 39, 40.)
This proposition may be true, s6 modo ; but that it is not universally true, is apparent from the authority already stated. (See
Bradburn v. Harper, Amb. Rep. 374. 2 Afadc 146. GiMh. For.
Rom. 157.)
,"The rule, however, that all persons, materially interested in the

subject of the suit, however numerous, ought to be parties, is not
without exteptions. As Lord Eldon has observed, it being a general -tle, established for the convenient administration of justice,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'

The proposed exchange between the Frederick

v-." and Fauquier lands, was made openly and deli-

Wormley
V.

Wormley.

it must not be adhered to in cases, to which, consistently with practical convenience, it is incapable of application. (Cockburn v.
Thompson, 16 Ves. 321. and see S. P. Wendell v. Van Rensselaer,
1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 349.) Whenever, therefdre, the party supposed
to be materially interested is without the jurisdiction of the Court;
or if a personal representative be a necessary party, and the right
of representation is in litigation in the proper ecclesiastical Court;
or the bill itself seeks a discovery of the necessary parties; nd,
in either case, the facts are charged in the bill, the Court will not
insist upon the objecti6n; but, if it can, will proceed t6, make a
decree between the parties before the Court, since it is obvious,
that the case cannot be made better.. (M tf. 145, 146. Coop. Eq.
P1. 39, 40. 2 kfadd. Ch. Pr. 143. 1 Harris.ch. 3.) Nor are
these the only cases ; for where the parties are very numerous, and
the Court perceives, that it will be almost impossible to bring them
all before the-C6urt; or ihere the question is of general interest,
and a few may sue for the benefit of the whole; or where the parties form a part of a voluntary association for public or private purposes, and may be fairly supposed to represent the rights and interests of the whole; in these and analogous cases, ifthe bill purports
to be not merely in behalf of the plaintiffs, but of all others-interested, the plea of the want of parties will be repelled, and the
Court will proceed to a decree. Yet, in these cases, so solicitous
is the Court to attain substantial justice, that it will permit the other
parties to come in under the decree, and take the benefit of it, or to
show it to be erroneous, and award a rehearing; or will entertain a
bill or petition, which shall bring the rights of such parties more
distinctly before the Court, if there be certainty or danger of injury
or injustice. (Coop. Eq. Pt. 39. 2 Madd. 144,145. Cockburn
v. Thompson, 16 Ves. 321.) Among this class of cases, are suits
brought by a part of a crew of a privateer again*st prize agents, for
an account, and their proportion of prize money. There, if the
bill be in behalf of themselves only, it will not be sustained; but if
it be in behalf of themselves, and all the rest of the crew, it will
be sustained upon the manifest inconvenience of any other course;
for it has been truly said, that no case can call more strongly for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

berately, upon consultation with friends of the 1823.
cestuis que trust, and obviously had many
pruden- Wonnley
y
V.

indulgence, than where a number of seamen have interests; for Wormley.
their situation at any period, how many were living at any given
time, how many are dead, and who are entitled to representation,
cannot be ascertained; (Good v. Blewitt, 13 Yes. 397. Leigh v.
Thomas, 2 Fes. 312. Contra, Moffa v. Farquherson, 2 Bro. Ch.
Cas. 338. Acc. Brown v. Harris, 1S Ves. 552. Cockburn v.
Thompson, 16 Ves. 321.) and it is not a case, where a great number of persons, who ought to be defendants, are not brought before
the Court, belt are to be bound by a decree against a few.. So,
also, is the common case of creditors suing on behalf of the rest,
and seeking an account of the estate of their deceased debtor, to
obtain pa 1 ment of their demands; and there the other creditors
may con'e ii lnd take the benefit of the decree. (Leigh v. Thomas, 2 Vee, 812. Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Ves. 321. Hendricks v. Fran'lin, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 283. Brown v. Ricketts,
3 .fohns. Ch. Rep 553. Coop. Eq. PL. 39. 186.) But Sir John
Strange said, the e was no instance of a bill by three or four, to have
an account of tht e. ate, without saying they bring it in behalf of
themselves and the r,.t of the creditors. (Leigh v. Thomas,
2 Ves. 312. Coop. L q. Pl. 39.) And legatees seeking relief,
and an account against executors, may stue in behalf of themselves
and all other interested persons, when placed in the same predicament as creditors. (Brown v Ricketts, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 553.)
Another class of cases is, v .i re a few members of a voluntary society, or an unincorporae. body of proprietors, have been permittedto sue in behalf of tht. whole, seeking relief, and an account
against their own agents and committees. Such was the ancient case
of the proprietors of the Temple Mill Brass Works; (Chancey v.
May,..Prec. Ch. 592.) and such were the modern cases of the
Opeaa House, the Royal Circus, Drury Lane Theatre, and the
Ne* River Company. (Lloyd v. Loaring, 6 Ves. jr. 773. Adair
v. New River Company, 11 IVes. 429. Cousins v. Smith, IS Ves.
542. Coop. Eq. PL 40. Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Ve8. 321.)
There is one other class of cases, which I will just mention, where
a lord of a manor has been permitted to sue a few of his tenants,
or a few df the tenants have been permitted to sue the lord, upon

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT

1823.
'~",-

Wormley

tial considerations to recommend it. That Worm.
ley and his family must'have starved had they re-

V.

Wormley. the question of a right of common , or a parson has sued, or beens
sued by some of his parishioners, in respect to the right of tithe a.
In these and analogous cases of general right, the Court dispen se
with having l the parties, who claim the same right, before it,
from the manifest inconvenience, if not impossibility of Vloing it,
and is satisfied with bringing so many before it, as may be considered as fairly representing that right, and honestly contesting 1n
behalf of the whole, and therefore binding, in a sense, that right.
(2 Madd. 145. Coop. E. P1. 41. Miff. P1. 145. Adair v.
New River Company, 11 Ires. 429.) But even in the case of a
voluntary siciety, where the question was, whether a disslution
and division of the funds, voted by the members, was consistent
with their articles, the Court refused to decree, until all the members were made parties. (Beaumont v. Meredith, 3 Ies. and
Beames, 180.) The principle upon'which all these classes of cases
stand, is, that the Court must either wholly deny the plainti"s an
equitable relief, to which they are entitled, or grant it without
making other persons parties; and the latter it deems the least
evil, ag it can consider other persons as quasi parties to the record,
at least for the purpose of taking the benefit of the decree, and of
entitling themselves to other equitable relief, if their rights are jeoparded. Of course, the principle always supposes, that the decree
can, as between the parties before the Court, be fitly made, without
substantial injury to third persons. If it be otherwise, the Court
will withhold its interposition.
"The same doctrine is applied, and with the same qualification,
to cases where a material party is beyond the jurisdiction of the
Court, as if the party be a partner with the defendant, and resident in a foreign country, so that he cannot be reached by the process of the Court. There, if the Court sees, that without manifest
injustice to the parties before it, or to others, it can proceed to a
decree, it acts upon its own notionof equity, without adhering to,
the objection. (Coop. Eq. P. 35. Miff. P. 146. Cowslad v.
Cely, Prec. Ch. 88. Darwent v.Walton, 2 .41k. 510. Whalley
v. Whalley, 1 res. 484. 487. Milligan v. Milledge, 3 Cranchks
Rep. 220.) The ground of this rule is peculiarly applicable to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

jV7

mained upon the lands in Frederick, is abundantly
proved; and no worse consequences eould have

18 J

Courts of the United States; and, therefore, if a party, who might

Wormley.

V.

other.wise be considered as material, by being a made a party to the
bill, would, from the limited nature of its authority, oust the Court
of its jurisdiction, I should strain hard to give relief as between the,
parties before the Court; as for instance, where a partner, or a
joint trustee, or a residuary legatee, or one of the next of kin, from
not being a citizen of the State where the suit was brought, or
from being a citizen of the State, if made a plaintiff, would defeat
the jurisdiction, and thus destroy the suit, I should struggle to administer equity between the parties properly before us, and not suffer a rule, founded on mere 'convenience and general fitness, to
defeat the purposes of justice. (Russell v. Clark, 7 Cranch's Rep.
69.98.)
"19Ihave taken up more time in considering the doctrine as to
making parties, than this cause seemed to require, with a viewto relieve us from some of the difficulties pressed at the argument, and
to show the distinctions (not always very well defined) upon which
the authorities seem to rest. Apply them to the present case. The
plaintiff claims, as heir, an undivided portion of the surplus, charged
to be in the defendants' hands and possession. No reason is shown
on the face of the bill, why the other heirs, having the same common interest, are not parties to it. The answer gives their names,
and shows them within the jurisdiction of the Court, and as defendants, they might have bden joined in this suit without touching
the jurisdiction of the Court, for they are all resident in this State.
As plaintiffs they could not be joined without ousting our jurisdiction, for then some of the plaintiffs would have been citizens of the
same State as the defendants. (Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch'g
Rep. 267.) Now, in the first place, the other heirs might, if parties,
controvert the very fact of heirship in the plaintiff, and that would
touch the very marrow of his right to the demand now in question.
The fact, hcwever, is not denied or put in issue by the answer,
and, therefore, as to the present defendants, it forms no ground
of controversy. But they insist that the present suit will not close
their accounts; and that the other heirs may sue them again, and
controvert the whole matter now in litigation, and thus vex them
Vol.. VIII.

5S

CASES fLN THE.SUPREME COURT

1823.
Wormley

happened to them from either of these exchanges,
is satisfactorily shown, also, that the exchange

SIt

V.

Wormley. with double inconveniences and perils. This is certainly true;
and it is as certain, that they could not be made plaintiffs without
ousting the present plaintiff of his remedy here. They might
have been made defendants; but the question is, whether the plaintiff is compellable so to make then, unless they deny his heir°
ship, or they collude with the defendants. If there be no controversy between him and them, he could have no decree against
them at the hearing; and it would be strange, if, when he has
nothing to allege against them, he must still name them as defendants in his bill. I agree to the general doctrine, that where a residuary legatee sues, he must make the other residuary legatees
parties; and I think it analogous to the present case. But there
the rule would not apply, if the other residuary legatees were in a
foreign country, or without the reach of the jurisdiction of the
Court. The case of the next of kin, put by Gilbert, in the passage before cited, is identical with the present. (Gib. For.Rom.
157, 158.) But there the same exception must be implied. And.
even in a case where a mistake in a legacy, of an aliquot part of
the personal estate, was sought to be rectified, and the next of kin
were admitted to be necessary parties, (as to which, however, as
the executor represents all parties in interest as to the personal
estate, a doubt might be entertained, whether, under the peculiar
circurmstances of this case, they were necessary defendants,)
(Peacock v. Monk, 1 Ves. 127. Lawson v. Barker, 1 Bro. Ch.
Cas. 303.

1 Eq..4brid.73. p. 13.

Anon. 1 Ve8. 261.

Wain-

wright v. Waterman, 1 Ves. jr. 311.) the Court dispensed with
their being made parties, it appearing that they were numerous,
and living in distant places, and the matter in dispute being small,
and the plaintiff a pauper. (Bradwin v. Harpur, Ambler, 374.)
The rule is not then, so inflexible, that it may not fairly leave
much to the discretion of the Court; and upon the facts of the
present case, it being impossible to make the otbr heirs plaintifts,
consistently with the preservation of the jurisdiction of the Court,
or to make them defendants, from any facts which can be truly
charged against them, I should hesitate a good while before I should
enforce the rule: and if thie causq turned solely upon this objec-

459

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the Fauquier land was highly advantageous.

1823.

Taking money, as the most correct comparison of
V.

tion, I should not be prepared to sustain it. (Clarke v. Russell, Wozmley.
7 Cranch, 69. 98.) There. is, indeed, a difficulty upon the face
of the bill, that it shows no reason why the other heirs were not
made parties, as plaintiffs; and if there had been a demurrer, it
might have been fatal. But the answer seems to set that right, by
disclosing the citizenship and residence of the other heirs; and, in
this respect, relying on the facts as a defence, it may well aid the
defects of the bill.
" There is) however, a more serious objection to this bill for
the want of parties; and that is, that the personal representative
of William West is not brought before the Court, and for this no reason is assigned in the bill. Now, itis to be considered that the bill
charges the defendants with trust property, personal as well as real.
and prays an account, and payment of the plaintiff's distributive
share of each. I do not say that the heir, or next of kin, cannot,
in any case, proceed for a distributive share against a third person,
having in his possession the personal assets of the ancestor, without
making the personal representative a party; but such a case, if at
all, must stand upon very special circumstances,. which must be
charged in the bill. The administrator of the deceased is, in the
first place, entitled to his whole personal estate, in trust for the
payment of'debts and charges, and as to the residue, in trust for
the next of kin. The latter are entitled to nothing until all the
debts are paid; and they cannot proceed against the immediate
debtor of the deceased, in any case, any more than legatees or
creditors, unless they suggest fraud and collusion with the personal
representative, and then he must be made a party, or some other
special reason be shown for the omission. (Newland v. Champion,
1 Ves. 105. Utterson v. Mair, 4 Bro. Ch. Cas. 270. S. C. 2
Ves. jr.95. Alsagar v. Rowley, 6 Ves. 751. Bickley v. Dodlgton, 2 Eq. Abrid. 78. 253.) It is, therefore, in general, a fatal
objection in a bill for an account of personal assets, that the administrator is not a party: nor is this objection repelled, if there be
none at the time, unlegs there be some legal impediment to a grant
of administration. (Humphreys v. Humphreys, 3 P. lF's. 348.
Griffith v. Bateman, Rep. T. Finch. 334.) Now, upon the facts

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. value, it appears, that the Frederick land, after
'being
long hawked about for sale, and having
V.
eY 1000 dollars added to its value by Strode, in the
WernleyT. extinction of the mother's life estate, sold for no
more than 5500 dollars, a sum satisfactorily proved
to be its full value at the time; whereas, the Fauquier land, after Wormley's refusal to take it,
was sold for 8000 dollars. So that the two tracts
then stood, in comparison of value, as 4500 to
8000 dollars. And that Strode was fully sensible
of the great difference in value, and satisfied to
bear the loss, is positively proved by the fact, that
when Wormley resolved to move to Kentucky,
of this case, it is apparent that William West died insolvent; and
if so, it would be decisive against the plaintiff's title to any portion
of the personalty. And as to the real estate, as that is also liable,
in this State, to the debts of the intestate, this fact would be equally
decisive of his title to any share in the real trust property. This
shows, how material to the cause the personal representative of
the intestate is, since he is, ex officio, the representative, in cases
of this sort, of the creditors. But upon the general ground, without reference to these special facts, I think, that the personal representative of William West, not being a party, is a well founded
objection to proceeding to a decree. I am aware, that a want of
parties is not necessarily fatal, even at the hearing, because the
cause may be ordered' to stand over to make further parties;
(Anon. 2 Atk. 14. Coop. Eq. PL.289. Jones v. Jones, 3 Atk.
f11.) but this is not done of course; and rarely, unless where the
cause, as to the new parties, may stand upon the bill and the answer of such' parties. For if the new parties may controVert the
plaimiff s very right to the demand in questidn, and the whole
cause must be gone over again upon a just examination of witnfesses,
it seems at least doubtful, whether it may not be quite as equitable
iodigmiss the .cause without prejudice, so that the plaintiff may
begi de novoa (GM . Por.Rom. 159.) If this cause necessarily
fumed upon this point alone, I should incline to adopt this course."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

461

they established the value of the Fauquier lands 1823.
between themselves at 7000 dollars; and Strode -wotmley
V.
actually gave an acknowledgment to Wormley for
wormley.
dividing
after
7000
the
of
balance
the
6500 dollars,
with him the sum paid for his mother's life estate.
The case is one in which, it is true, the conduct of the defendants is greatly exposed to misrepresentation and misconstruction; but when reduced to order, and examined, the circumstances
admit of the most perfect reconciliation with the
purest intentions. It is true, that Strode was in
debt; that it was necessary to sell the Fauquier
lands to satisfy his creditors; that the money
arising from the Frederick land was applied to
the. payment of Strode's debts. But there was
nothing iniquitous in all this. It is perfectly explained thus: The Fauquier land must be sold to
pay Strode's debts; the situation of the Wormleys
on the trust estate was so bad, that no change
could make it worse; the removal to the Fauquier
lands was thought advisable by all their friends;
where then was the fraud in letting them have the
Fauquier lands at an under price, and paying his
debts out of the actual proceeds of the trust estate? The money arising .from the latter was,
under this arrangement, the price of the former.
It was, in fact, paying his debts with the price of
his own property, not that of the trust estate.
It has been argued, that the sale of the trast
estate was not made with a view to reinvestment;
but the evidence positively proves the contrary.
It goes to show, that the reinvestment was the
leading object, and actually took place previous to

CASES IN' TRIE SUPREME COURT

1823.

the sale of the trust estate. And even' if that
construction of the power be conceded, which
V. would require the sale and reinvestment to be
Wornlley, simultaneo.us acts, or that which would render the
purchaser liable for the application of the purchase
money, the facts of the case would satisr either
exigency. For the reinvestment was actually
made simultaneously with the sale; or, if it was not
finally consummated, the cause is to be found altogether in the anxiety of the defendants to satisfy
a -capricious man, ind the ignorance of Strode, in
supposing himself justified in yielding to Wormley's judgment or will.
Had Strode actually sold the. Fluquier lands;
paid off his encumbrances from the purchase
money; then sold the Frederick land; and reinvested, the fund in a repurchase of the Fauquier
lands, there could not have been an exception
taken to the sufficiency of the reinvestment.' And
then the transaction would, in a moral point of
view, have been necessarily regarded as favourably as I am disposed to regard it. Yet, it is unquestionable, that, thus stated, it presents a correct
summary of the whole transaction, a made out in
the evidence. It has,.however, been put together
so as to admit of distorted views; and such will
ever be the case where men expose themselves to
suspicion by mixing up their own interests with
the interests of others placed under their protection. I can see nothing but liberality in the conduct of Strode towards Wormley, and little else
than improvidence, caprice, and ingratitude in the
conduct of the latter.
v
Worm~ley

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Nevertheless, there are canons of the Court of
equity which have their foundation; not in the actual commission of fraud, but in that hallowed

463
1823.
Wormley

V.

Worty.
orison, "lead us not into temptation."
One of these is, that a trustee shall not be permitted to mix up his own afiirs with those of the
cestui que trust. Those who have examined the
workings of the human heart, well know, that in
such cases, the party most likely to be imposedupon
is the actor himself, if honest; and, if otherwise,
that the scope for imposition given to human ingenuity, will enable it generallyto baffle the utmost
subtlety of legal investigation. Hence the fairness or unfairness of the transaction, or the comparison of price and value, is not suffered to enter
into the consideration of the Court, on these occurrences; but the rule is positive and general,
that the cestui que trust may be restored. to his
original rights against the trustee, at his option.
And where infants, &c. are interested,'they YM be
restored or not, with a view solely to the *benefitof
the cestuis que trust. It is unquestionable1 from the
evidence, that both Veitch, and Castleman and
M'Cormick, must be affected by both legal and
actual notice of the transactions of Strode. They
are, therefore, liable to the same decree which
ought to be made against the latter.
It is, however, some satisfaction to me, to be
able to vindicate their innocence, while I feel myself compelled to subject them to a serious loss.
The rule which requires this adjudication, may, in
many cases, be a hard one, but it is a fixed rule,
and has the sanction of public policy.
Decree nffirmed. with costs.

