OF THE UNITED STATES.

judgment of the said Distritt Court for the District of Lousiana, in this case, be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of eight per centum per annum, including interest on the amount of the judgment
of the said District Court.

[CHA~cZUY.

LoCAL LAW.]

PHILIP NORBORNE NICHOLAS, Attorney General of
Virginia, v. RICHARD C. ANDERSON, Surveyor,
&c.
Under the act of Assembly of Virginia, of October, 1788, for the better locating and surveying the lands given to the officers and soldiers on Continental and State establishments, the State of Virginia has no right to call upon the person who was appointed ono
of the principal surveyors, to account for the fees received by him,
of one dollar for every hundred acres, on delivering the warrants,
towards raising a fund for the purpose of supporting all contingent
expenses- the bill filed by the Attorney General of the State, to
compel an account, not sufficiently averring the want'of any prope3
private parties in esse to claim it.
qunr, Whetber, in sucl a case, the assignees of the warrants, or a
part of them, suing in behalf of the whole, could maintain a
suit in equity for an account ?

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
This was a bill in equity, filed by, and in the name
of the Attorney General of Virginia, under the
authority of a special act of the Legislature of
that State, passed on the 15th of February, 1813.

365
1823.
Nicolas

V.
Anders.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I
-2g.
The bill charged, that the Ldgislature of Virginia,
2
by-an act passed in October session, 1783, among
N'kbolas
Y. other things, provided, that -all persons holding
A~e". officers' or soldiers' warrants by assignment,
should pay down to the principal surveyor, at the
time of the delivery of siffl warrants, one dollar
,for every hundred acres thereof, exclusive of the
legal surveyor's fees, towards raising a fund for
the purpose of paying all contingent expenses,
&c. as will appear by reference to the act. That
the deputations of officers, in pursuance of the said
act, appointed two principal surveyors, one of
whom was the defendant, and who immediately
took upon himself- the duties of the office, and exwtd, in virtue of the act of 1783, from all the
hfolders of the military warrants, the one dollar per
one hundred acres above provided for. That the
defendanthad received a large sum of money in this
way, and had refused to account for the same to
thecomplainant, and the agents and attorneys ap..
pointed for this purpose under the act of 1813. It
Rurther charged a misapplication of the money;
and that the deputations of officers, under the act
of 1783, did appoint superintendants, &c. but
that most of them are long since dead. and the
survivors have declined to act for many years.
it proceeded to state the substance of the act .of
1813, which authorized Colonel John Watts,- the
surviviig superintendant, agent to settle with the
defendant; and to receive the moheys remaining
unappropriated in his hands, and if not paid, to
sue for, and recover the same, in the name of the
Attorney General of Virginia; and then charged,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

367

that the defendant refused to account with Watts, 1823.
and concluded with a prayer for an account, .discoI.
very, and general relief. To this, bill the defend.nde,
Kentucky,
of
Court
Circuit
ant demurred; and the
upon argument of the demurrer, held it valid, and
dismissed the bill. The cause was then brought
by appeal to this Court.
The Attornwj General,for the plaintiff, argued, Feb. Va.

that the State of Virginia still considered the defendant as an officer of that State, and he was so
styled in the bill.o The demurrer also admitted
the fact. The authority given to the superintendants has expired. The defendant, who, as surveyor, has received large sums of money, under
an act of the Legislature of Virginia, is now called
on to account for it. A special act has also been
passed, to authorize the Attorney General to proceed in equity, under which the present bill
was filed. The argument on the part of the
defendant must be, that the deputations of officer
no longer existing, the money belongs to- him.
The State, however, does not claim this money as
beneficially entitled to it, but as a trustee for those
who are so entitled. She claims, in virtue of her
sovereignty, a right to superintend the execution
of the law by her own officei. And it is a familiar and well established principle, that whetever a trust fails, there is a resulting trust in the
grantor for the benefit of the cestui ge trusts.
So, if a corporation endowed for a particular pura Laws of Virg. Ch. Rev. 210.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
"

pose, which fails, the funds revert back to the
grantor by whom. it was created or.endowed.a

V.

Anderson

1. Z

Mr. Talbot, contra, insisted, (J.) That the fees
in question were for the exclusive benefit, and elonged of right.to the owners of the warrants, under whose control, or that of the superintendants,
it must always remain; and that consequently the
State of Virginia had no authority,, such as that
pretended to be exercised by the special act of
1813, to. vest in the Attorney General of that State,
or any other person, a right'to sue for the recovery
.of the sums of money supposed to he due from
the defendant. The plaintiff has not shown any
interest in the subject, entitling him to sue; nor
can there be a resulting trust, where it is not shown
that the original trustees are no longer in ese.
(2.) That the. State of Virginia having, previous
to the passage of the act, authorized the erection
of the District of Kentucky into.an indbpendent
State, within the limits of which the defendant
resided, and where he was to perform his official
duties, he was no longer accountable, to the State
of Virgi."a, from whom he had not even derived
his original appointment; nor could that State, -by
any legislative act, impose upon him the duty of
answering the complaint stated in the bill.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court; and, after stating the case, proceeded as
follows:
a Co.Litt. lSb. GorA.211.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The question in this case is, whether the demurrer was well taken. In support of the decree,
two points are stated at the bar: 1st, that the
plaintiff has not shown any in'terest in the subject,
entitling the State of Virginia to maintain the bill;
2dily, that if there was originally any resulting
authority to the State, to compel an account, that
power, by the erection of Kentucky into an independent State, devolved on the latter State, the
defendant having been, and still continuing to be,
a citizen of that State; and that it was not competent for the Legislature of Virginia, in 1813,
to pass a law, which should bind a citizen of Kentucky to account for official duties, which were
not performed in virtue of any appointment made
by the government of Virginia.
It is unnecessary to conoider the last objection,
because we are of opinion that the first is fatal to
the bill. The act of 1783, for the better locating
and surveyiig the lands given to the officers and
soldiers on Continental- and State establishments,
authorizes the deputations of officers, therein
named, to appoint superintendants, in behalf of
their respective lines, for the purpose of surveying the lands; and also to appoint two principal
surveyors, and contract with them for their fees,
&e. The third section of the act then provides,
"that every person or persons holding officers' or
soldiers' warrants, by assignment, shall pay down
tothe prihcipal surveyors, at the time of the delivering such warrant or warrants, one dollar for every
hundred acres thereof, exclusive of the-legal surveyor's fees, towards raising a fund for the putrVOL.TI

47

-369
1823.
V.
Andern.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

pose of supporting all contingent expenses; or,
l1icholas at the option of such holder or holders, the same
V.
may be held up until the warrants of all the oriAnderson. ginal grantees have been surveyed; the said surveyors to account for all the'money so received,
to such person or persons as the said deputations
may direct." This is the clause upon which the
bill is founded. And it is 'apparent, that in terms
it.pi'ovides for an accountability, not to the State,
but to persons to be appointed by the deputations
of officers; to those for whose benefit the fund was
raised, and was to be applied, and not to the
State, which, had no interest whatsoever in' it.
Even then, if 1y the death of all the .deputations
of officers, without making any appointment, the
authority intended by the act became incapable
of being executed, there is no averment in the
bill to that effect; on the contrary, the bill does
admit that superintendants were appointed, of
whom some are dead, and the survivors decline
to act. If, therefore, under any circumstances, a
re.sulting power could arise to the State to enforce
an account, from the want of any proper private
parties in esse to claim it, such a case is not stated
by the bill. Whether, in such a case, the assignees of the warrants, or a part of them, suing
in. behalf of the whole, might* not maintain a
suit in equity for an account, is nut for'us now to
determine. . It is sufficient that the State of Virginia, by the very terms of the act, has delegated
to other persons, whose existence is not denied,
the authority to call the surveyors to account.

Decree affirmed, with costs.

