OF THE UNITED STATES.

697

damages given upon affirmance by the Court of 1823.
Appeals.

And if the above opinion, in respect

to the interest to which the plaintiff was entitled,
be correct, it follows, that the Court below was
right in refusing to give the second instruction
asked for by the defendants' counsel.

Hugh

V.
Rgg.

Judgment affirmed, with costs.

[PACTICE.]

HuGH, Plaintiff in Error,

V.
HIGGS and Wife, Defendants in .Error.
-Noaction at law will lie on the decretal order of a Court of Equity.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the
plaintiff in error,' and by Mr. Jones, for the defendants in error.

Vrh 6th

Mr. Chief Justice MARSAALL delivered the mard, 14m.
opinion of the Court. This is an 'action on the
case, brought to recover the money which the
plaintiff in error had been decreed by a Court of
Chancery to pay to the defendants in error. The
defendant in the Court below contended, that an
a He cited Carpenter v. Thornton. 3 Bamp. &" JJ. 52.
VOL. VIII.

8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

action at common law did not lie on a decree in
and excepted to the opinion of that
Court, overruling this objection. It is admitted
by the opposite counsel, that, in general, the

SChancery,
Hug

Higgs.

action does not lie to recover money claimed under
the decree of a Court of equity, but he supposed
that, in this case, the money had been received by
the defendant below, upon transactions which took
place after the decree. Upon examining the record, we perceive that the money was in his hands,
as trustee, at the time the order to pay it over was
made.
An objection was also made to an opinion of
the Circuit Court, upon another part of the case.
There was an agreement between the parties,
under seal, and having some relation to the money
to which part of the claim relates, and the defendant below objected to the form of the action
on that account. But we cannot discover, from
the bill of exceptions, whether the money in contest was, or was not, received under that instrument. On that point, therefore, the Court gives
no opinion. The judgment is to be reversed for
error in the opinion of the Court below, which
declares the action to be sustainable on the decretal order of the Court of Chancery, and the
cause is remanded to the Circuit Court for further
proceedings.
Judgment reversed.

