. CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Nicholls
V.

Webb.

[PRoMIssonr NoMn.

EvwuZc;.l

NICHOLLS, Plaintiff in Error,v. WEBB, Dc-.

fendant in Error.
No demand of payment, or notice of non-payment, &y a notary public, is necessary in the case of promissory notes. A protest is
(strictly speaking) evidence in the case of foreign bills of exchango
only.
But it is a principle, that memorandums made by a person, in the ordinary course of his business, of acts which his duty, in such business, requires him to do for others, are, in case of his death, admissible evidence of acts so done. A fortiori, the acts of a public
officer are so admissible, though they may not be strictly official,
if they are according to general usage, and the ordinary course of
his office.
Therefore, the books of a notdry public, proved to have been regulaxly kept, are admissible in evidence, after his decease, to prove a
demand of payment, and notice of non-payment, of a promissory
note.

ERROR to the District Court of Louisiana.

This was a suit brought by petition, according to
the course of proceedings in Louisiana,* by Webb,
the defendant in error, against Nicholls, the plaintiff in error, upon a promissory note, dated the
15th of January, 1819, made by one Fletcher, for
the sum of 4880 dollars, payabi6 to the order of
Nicholls, at the Nashville Bank, and endorsed by
Nicholls, by his agent, to Webb. The answer of
the defendant below denied such a demand, and
notice of non-payment, as were necessary to rena lide ante Vol. 111. p. 202. Note a.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

der him liable as endorser. At the trial it ap- 1823.
peared in evidence, that the note became due on Mchous
the 18th of July, which was Sunday. The deV.
mand of payment of the maker was made, and Webb.
notice of non-payment to the endorser, was given
at the request of the plaintiff below, by one Washington Perkins, a notary public, who died before
the trial. The original protest was annexed to
the plaintiff's petition, and was drawn up acording to. the usual formula of that instrument, stating a demaild and refusal of payment at the
Nashville Bank, on Saturday, the 17th of July,
the 18th being Sunday, and that he, the notary,
"duly notified the endorsers of the non-payment."
The plaintiff offered this protest, among other
evidence, to support his causd, together with the
deposition of Sophia Perkins, the daughter of the
notary: This witness stated, in her deposition,
that her father kept a regular record of his notarial icts, and uniformly entered, in a book kept by
himself,or caused the deponent to enter, exact
copies of the notes, bills, &c. which he protested;
and in the margin opposite to the copy of the protest, made memorandums after notification to endorsers, if any, of the fact of such notification,
and the manner; and that his notarial records
had been, ever since his death, in the house where
she lived. And to her deposition, she annexed,
and veiifiedas true, a copy of the protest in this
ease. The copy of the protest stated the demand
(as supposed by mistake) to have been made on
the 19th, instead of the 17th of July, 1819, and
contained the following memorandum on the mar-

C!ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'-

-

Nicholls

V.

Webb.

gin. ':Endorser duly notified in writing 19th of
July, 1819, the last day of grace being Sunday,
the 18th. Washington Perkins." In other respects the protest was in the same form with that
annexed as the original to the plaintiff's.petition.
The defendant below objected to, the admission
of this protest and deposition in evidence, but his
objection was overruled by the Court. Whereupon
the defendant excepted, and the jury returned a
verdict for the plaintiff; upon which, the Court,
according to the usual practice in Louisiana, ascertained the sum due, and rendered judgment.
The cause was then brought by writ of error to
this Court.

Rb. 15th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Eaton, and Mr.
C. J. Ingersolla for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Sergeant,b for the defendant in error. But as
the grounds of argument and the authorities are
so fully stated in the opinion of the"Court, it has
not been thought necessary to report their arguments.

d.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court. This is a writ of error to the District

Ab.

a They cited Hingham v. Ridgway, 10 East's Rep. 109. 1
Salk. 205. 2 Strange, 1129. 7 East's Rep. 279. 3 Burr.
1065. 1072. Chitty on Bills, 240. 273. 2 Camp. Rep. 177.
2 Caines' Rep. 343. 12 Mass. Rep. 89. 2 Johns. tep. 423.
2 Wash. Rep. 281.
b He cited Pritt v. Fairclough, 3 Camp. Rep. 305. Price v.
Torrington, Salk. 285. S. C. 2 Lord Raym. 87'3. Pitman v.
Maddox, Salk; 690. Hagedorn v. Reid, 3 Camp. Rep. 379.

Welsh v. Barrett, 15 Mass. i.p. 381.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court of Louisiana. The suit was brought by
Mr. Webb, as endorsee, against Mr. Nicholls, aa
endorser 'of a promissory note, dated the 15th of
January, 1819,, and made by Thomas H. Fletcher,
for the sum of 4880 dollars, payable to Nicholls
ororder, at the Nashville Bank, and endorsed'by
N.cholls, by his agent, to the plaintiff. The note
became due on the 18th of July, which being Sunday, the note, of course, was payable on the proceding Saturday. The cause came on for. trial
upon petition, and answer, according to the usual
course of proceedings, in Louisiana, the answer
setting up, among other things, a denial of due
demand; and notice of non-payment; and upon
the trial, the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff. The Court, thereupon, ascertained the sum
due, and entered judgment for the plaintiff, according to what is understood to be the usual practice of that State.
Several questions have been argued at the bar,
which may be at once laid out of the case, since
they do not arise upon the record; and we may,
theref6re, proceed to examine that alone upon
which'ny judgment was pronounced in the Court'
below.From the issue in the cause, the burthen of
proofrf due demand of payment,, and due notice of
the non-payment to Nicholls, rested on the plaintiff.
It appears,-that the demand was made, and notic?
given, at the request of the plaintiff, by one Washington Perkins, a notary public, who died before
the trial. The original protest was annexed to
the plaintiff's petition, and contained the usual
42
VOL. VIII.

-329
1823.
V.
Webb.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18231 language in this instrument, stating a demand,
-Nicholls and refusal of payment at the Nashville Bank, on
V. the 17th of July, the 18th being Sunday, and that
Webb. he, the notary, " duly notified the endorsers of

the non-payment." Among other evidence to
support the plaintiff's case, he offered this protest,
together with the deposition of Sophia Perkins,
the daughter of the notary. She stated, in her
deposition, that her father kept a regular record
of his notarial acts, and uniformly entered, in a
book kept by himself, or caused the deponent to
do it, exact copies of the notes, bills, &c.; and in
the margin opposite to the copy of the protest
made memorandums after notification to endorsers, if any, of the fact of such notification, and
the manner; and that his notarial records had
been, ever since his death, in the house where she
lived. And to'her deposition, she annexed, and
verified as true, a copy of the protest in this case.
The copy of the protest states the demand (most
probably by mistake) to have been made on the
19th, instead of the 17th of July, 1819, and contains a memorandum on the margin: "Endorser
duly notified in writing 19th of July, 1819, the
last day of grace being Sunday, the 18th. Washington Perkins." In other respects the protest is
the same in form as that annexed to the petition.
To the introduction of this deposition, as well as
of the prbtest, as evidence, the defendant, Nicholls,
objected, and his objection was overruled by the
Court, and the papers were laid before the jury.
A bill of exceptions was taken to the decision'of the
Court in so admitting this evidence; and the sole

OF THE UNITED-STATE'S.

331

question now before us, is, whether that decision 18 &
was right. What that evidence might legally con- VqI~oI6
duce to prove, or what its effect might be, if proM.
Webb.
u.
before
question
a
now
perly admitted, is not
It was left to the jury to draw such inferences
of fact -as they might justly draw from it; and
whether they were right or wrong in their inferences, we cannot now inquire.
It does not appear that, by the laws of Tennes-.
see, a demand of the payment of promissory notes
is required to be made by a notary public, or a protest made for non-payment, or notice given by a notary to the endorsers. And by the general commercial law, it is perfectly clear, that the intervention of a notary is unnecessary in these casep.
•The notarial protest is not, therefore, evidence
of itself, in chief, of the fact of- demand, as it
would be in cases, of foreign bill& of exchange;
and in strictness bf. law, it is -not an official act.
But, we all know, that, in point of fact, notaries
are very commonly employed in this business; and
in some of the States it is a general usage so to
protest all dishonoured notes, which are lodged in,
of
Prcilee proor have been discounted by the bank. The piac:.. prottaing
tice has, doubtless, grown up from a sense of its ,iy notm
convenience, and the just confidence placed in
men who, from their habits auid character, are
likely to perform thete important duties with punctuality and accuracy. We may, therefore, safely
take it to be true in this case, that the protesting
of notes. if not .strictly the duty of the notary,
was in conformity to general practice, and was an
employment in which he was usually engaged. If

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. he had been alive at the trial, there is no question
%Nicholls that the protest could not have been given in eviV.

deuce, except with his deposition, or personal ex-

Webb.

amination, to support it. His death gives rise to
the 'question, whether it is not, connected with
other evidence, and particularly with that of his
daughter, admissible secondary evidence for the
purpose of conducing to prove due demand and
notice.a

The rules of evidence are of great importance,
o bevidulesmust
dence
be
adapted to the and cannot be departed from without endangering
exigencies of
private as well as public rights. Courts of law
society.
are, therefore, extremely cautious in the introduction of any new doctrines of evidence which trench
upon old and established principles. Still, however, it is obvious, that as the rules of evidence are
founded upon general interest and convenience,
they must, from time to time, admit of modifications, to adapt them to the actual condition and
business of men, or they would work manifest injustice; and Lord Ellenborough has very justly
observed, that they must expand according to the
exigencies of society. (Pritt v. Fairclugk,
3 Camp. Rep. 305.) The present case affords a
striking proof of the correctness of this remark.
Much of the business of the commercial world is
.done through the medium of bills of exchange and
promissory notes. The rules of law require, that
a By the French law, inland bills of exchange, and promissr
notes, as well as foreign bills, are required to be protested ; and the
protest is the only evidence of demand, and refusal of payment,
and notice of non-payment. Code de Commerce, liv. 1. tit. 8. art,
187.175.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

due notice and demand should be proved,to charge
the endorser. What would be the consequence,
if,in no instance, secondary evidence could be admitted, of a nature like the present? It would
materially impair the negotiability and circulation
of these important facilities to commerce, since
few persons would be disposed to risk so much
property upon the chance of a single life; and the
attempt to multiply witnesses would be attended
with serious inconveniences and expenses. There
is no doubt, that, upon the principles of law, protests of foreign bills of exchange are admissible
evidence of a demand upon the drawee; and upon
what foundation does this doctrine rest, but upon
the usage of merchants, and the universal convenience of mankind ? There is not even the plea
of absolute necessity to justify its introduction,
since it is *equallyevidence, whether the notary be
living or dead. The law, indeed, places a confidence in public officers; but it is here extended
to foreign officers acting as the agents and instruments of private parties.
The general objection to evidence, of the character of that now before the Court, is, that it is
in the nature of hearsay, and that the party is deprived of the benefit of cross-examination. That
principle also applies to the case of foreign protests. But the answer is, that it is the best
evidence -the nature of the case admits of. If
the party is dead, we cannot have his personal
examination on oath; and the question then arises,
whether there shall be a total failure of justice,
or secondary evidence shall be admitted to prove

333
1823.
Nicholls

V.
Web.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.. facts, where ordinary prudence cannot guard us
h
Richolls

V.
Webb.

against the effects of human mortality?

Vast

sums of money depend upon the evidence of notaries and messengers of banks; and. if their me-

morandums, in the ordinary discharge of their
duty and employment, are not admissible in evidence after their death, the mischiefs niust be very
extensive.
Private wriBut how stand the authorities upon this subtinge
when
evidence
ofject? Do they as inflexibly lay down the general
facts stated in
rule as the Qbjection seems to imply? The writthem.
ten declarations of deceased persons, and entries
in their books, have been for a long time admitted
as evidence, upon. ,the general ground, that they
were made against the interest of the parties.
Of this nature are the entries made by receivers
of money charging themselves, rentals of parties,
and bills of lading signed by masters of vessels.
More than a century ago, it was decided, that the
entries in the books of a tradesman, made by a
deceased shopman, were admissible as evidence
of the delivery of the goods, and of other matters
there stated within his own knowledge." So, in
an action on a tailor's bill, a shop book was allowed as evidence, it being proved that the servant
who wrote the book was dead, and that this was
his hand, and he was accustomed to make the entries." In the case of Higham v. Ridgeway, (10
East's Rep. 109.) it was held, that the entry of a
midwife in his books, in the ordinary course of his
a Price v. Lord Torrington, 1 Salk. 285.

873.

6

Pitumanv. Maddox, Salk. 690.

S. C. 2 Lord Raym.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

business, of the birth of a child, accompanied by
another entry in his ledger, of the charge for the
service, and a memorandum of payment at a subsequent date, was admissible evidence of thd time
of the birth. It is true, that Lord Ellenborough,
in giving his own opinion, laid stress upon the circumstanoe, ihat the entry admitting payment was
to the prejudice of the party, and, therefore, like the
case of a receiver. But this seems very artificial
reasoning, and could not apply to the original entry
in the day book, which was made before payment;
and-even in the ledger the payment was alleged to
have been made six months after the service. So
that, in truth, at the time of the entry, it was not
against the party's interest. And Mr. Justice Le
Blanc, in the same case, after observing, that he
did not mean to give any opinion as to the mere
declarations or entries of a midwife who is dead,
respecting the time of a person's birth, being made
in a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of such
a person, as it was not necessary then to determine
that question, significantly said, " I -would not be
bound at present to say, that they are not evidence." In the recent case of Hagedorn v.
Reid, (3 Camp. Rep. 379.) in a suit on a policy
of insurance where a license was necessary, the
original not being found, it was proved, that it
was the invariable practice of the plaintiff's office,
(he being a policy broker,) that the clerk, who
copies any license, sends it off by post, and makes
a memorandum on the copy of his having done so;
and a copy of the license in question was produced
from the plaintiff's letter book, in the handwriting

335
1823.
v.

Webb.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

j823.

v.
web

of a deceased clerk, with a memorandum on.it,
stating, that the original was sent to Doorman;
and a witness, acquainted with the plaintiff's mode'
of transacting business, swore, that he had no doubt
the original was sent according to the statement
in the memorandum. Lord Ellenborough held
this to be sufficient evidence of the license. And.
in Pritt v. Fairclough,.(3 Camp. Rep. 305.) the
same learned, Judge held, that the entry of a copy
of a'letter in the letter book of a party, made by
a deceased clerk, and sent to the other patty, was
admissible in evidence, the letter book being
punctually kept, to prove the .contents of the letter
so sent. And- he observed; on that occasion, that,
if it were not so, there would be no way in which
the most careful merchant could prove the contents of a letter after the death of his entering
clerk. The case of Welsh v. Barrett,which has
been cited at the bar from the Massachusetts Reports,° is still more directly in point. It was there
field, that the memorandums of a messenger of 'a
bank, made in the usual course of his employment,
of demands on promisors, and notices to endorsers, in respect to notes left for collection- in thie
bank, were, after his decease, admissible evidence
to establish such demands and notices. And the
lear led Chief Justice of the Court, on that occasion, went into an examination of the grounds of
the doctrine, and put the very case of a notarial
demand and protest of notes, which had been suggested at the bar as a more correct course, as not
g 15 Man. Rep. 381.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-distinguishable in principle, and liable to the same 1823.
objections as the evidence then before the Court.
V.
We are entirely satisfied with that decision, and NicoU3
think it is founded. in good sense, and public con- Webb.
venience. - We think it a safe principle, that memorndums made by a person in the ordinary
course of his business, of acts or matters which
his duty in such business requires him to do for
others, in case of-his death, are admissible eviSdence of the acts and matters so done. It is of
course liable ta be impugned by other evidence;
and to be encountered by any presumptions or
facts which diminish its credibility or certainty.
A4fcfriori we think the acts of a public officer,
like a notary public, admissible, although they
may not be strictly official, it they are according
to-the customary business of his office, since he
acts as. a sworn officer, and is clothed with public
authority and confidence.
It isi therefore, the opinion of the Court, that
the evidence excepted to in this case was rightly
admitted. The variance between the copy, and
the original .protest, as to the time of the demand,
might have been explained to the satisfaction of
the jury at the trial; but it forms no ground upon.
which this Court is called upon to express any
opinion..
Judgment aflemed, with costs.

VOL. VIW.

