CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Hughes
Vi

Union Ins.
Company.

(IN sUANcz.]

HUGHES V.

The

UNION INSURANCE COMPANY OF
BALTIMORE.

Insurance ror 18,000 dollars on Yessel valued at that sum, and 2000
dollars on freight valued at 12,000 dollars, on the ship Henry, " at
and from Teneriffe, and at and from thence to New-York, with
liberty to stop at Matanzas ; the property warranted American."
The policy was executed in 1807; and in the same year another
policy was made, by the same underwriters, on freight for the same
voyage, to the amount of 10,000 dollars, and the property was also
warranted American, but there was no liberty to stop at Matanzas.
The following representation was made to the underwriters on the
part of the plaintiff, who was both owner and master of the ship:

" We are to clear out for New-Orleans, the property will be undor
cover of Mr. John Paul, of Baltimore, who goes supercargo on
board, yet Mr. Paul will only have part of the cargo to his consignment. There will be three other persons on board, that will
have the remainder of the cargo in their care. We are to stop
at the Matanzas, to know if there are any men of war off the Havanna." The vessel sailed from Teneriffe on the 17th of April,
1807, with a cargo belonging to Spanish subjects, but appearing to
be the property of John Paul Dumeste, a citizen of the United
States, and the same person called John Paul in the represebtation. The cargo was shipped under a charter party executed by
the plaintiff and Dumeste, representing New-Orleans as the place
of destination. The ship arrived at the Havanna on the 7th of
July, having put into Matanzas to avoid British cruisers, and unladed the cargo, which was there received by the Spanish owners,
and the freight, amounting to 7000 dollars, paid to the plaintiff,
who received it " in full of all demands, for freight or otherwise,
under or by virtue of the aforesaid charter party and cargo." At
the Havanna the ship took in a new cargo, belonging to merchants
in New-York, and was lost, with the greater part of the cargo, on
the voyage from Havanna to New-York. An action of debt was
brought on the first policy for the value of the ship and freight.
The sum demanded in the writ was 20,000 dollars, but the plaintiff

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M9

limited his demand at the trial to 18,000 dollars on the ship, and
182S.
420 dollars for the freight actually earned on the voyage from HaHugbes
vanna to New-York: tedd, that he was entitled to recover.
v.
In debt, a less sum may be recovered than that demanded in the writ,
where an entire sum is demanded, and it is shown by the couns to Union Imi.
oonsist of several distinct accounts, or where the precise sum de- Copany.
manded is diminished by extrinsic circumstanes.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was an action of debt, upon a policy of' in.surance, in the usual form, dated on the 27th of
May, 1807, on the ship Henry, "lost or not lost,"
"at and from Teneriffe to Havanna, .and at and
from thence to New-York, with liberty to stop at
Matanzas." Eighteen thousand dollars were insured on the ship, valued at that sum, and two
thousand dollars on the freight, valued at twelve
thousand dollars; and the property was warranted
American.
Oi the 1st of June, in the same year, a policy
was executed on the freight of the ship Henry,
by the same Company, for the -same voyage, to
the amount of .10,000 dollars; the whole 'freight
being valued. at 12,000 dollars. In this ,policy
also, the property was warranted American; but
there was no liberty to stop or touch at Matanzas,
or any other place.
Both these policies were effected under .an order for insurance, by Henry Thompson, of Baltimore, as agent for the plaintiff, an American citizen, who was -master for the voyage, as well as
owner. The order bears date on the 18th of May,
1807, and is in the following words:

ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
" Baltimore, May 18th, ItJ7.

1829.
€, GENTLEMEN,

Hughes
V.

Union Ins.

Company.

"Insurance is wanted on 18,000 dollars, on the
American ship Henry, Capt. Henry Hughes, and

12,000 dollars on her freight, each valued at the

same; at and from Tenerffe to Havanna, and at
and from thence to New-York, against all risks.
"The Henrywas expected to sail on or about the
12th ult.; she is a remarkably good vessel, about
-270 tons burthen, and now on her first voyage.
Said ship and freight are the sole property of
Capt. Hughes, who gives the following particulgxs
in his letter of instructions to N. Talcott, of NewYork.
"'

We are to clear out for New-Orleans; the

property will be under cover of Mr. John Paul, of
Baltimore, who goes supercargo on board, yet Mr.
Paul will only-have part of the cargo to his consignment. There will be three other pasons on
board, that will have the remainder of the cargo
in their care. We are to stop at the Matanzas, to
know if there are any men of war off the Havanna.
"1 When you make insurance, which I expect
will be done low, you will state the whole of this
business; so that there will be a right understanding of the voyage.'
" At what premium will you insure the above
risks?
HENRY THOMPSON."
(Signed)
The Henry sailed from Teneriffe on the 17th
of April, 1807, with a cargo for the Havanna,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which belonged to Spaniards, but appeared as the

%7
12.

property of John Paul Dumeste, (the person men-

tioned in the order for insurance by the name of
John Paul,) a citizen of the United States, who
for Com In.
went as supercargo. She took a clearance
New-Orleans. This cargo was laden at Tenerifte, under.a charter party, which bore date the
10th of March, 1807, and r.epresents New-Orleans
as the port of destination, without any mention
or notice of the Havanna. The parties to it wore
Dumeste, and Henry Hughes, the master. The
freight mentioned wae 11,000 dollars; of which it
was stipulated that 5000 dollars should be paid at
New-Orleans, and the remaining 6000 dollars at
New-York.
The ship proceeded to the Havanna, where she
arrived on the 7th of July; .having put into Matanzas on.the 2d of June, to avoid British cruisers
then in sight, and unladed the cargo, which was
there delivered to the real Spanish owners. The
real freight to the Havanna, amounting to 7000
.dollars, was paid at Natanzas to the plaintiff, who
received it " in full of all demands for freight or
otherwise, under or by virtue of the aforesaid
charter party and cargo." It was proved that this
unlading did not produce any'additional delay or
increase of risk, for the ship left Matanzas and
proceeded to Havanna in'ballast, asr soon as there
was any-reasonable prospect of escaping the cruisers stationed in the way, and was enabled to proceed sooner and more safely, -by being in ballast,
which put it in her. power to keep closer in shore.
At the lffAvanna she took in a new cargo, belongVOL. VIM

38

298

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
1 Hughes
V.

ing to persons in New-York, and consisting of
120 boxes of sugar, at a freight of 3 dollars and
50 cents the box.

On the voyage she sprung

aleak, soon after which she transhipped a part of
Company. her cargo, consisting of 60 boxes, into the Rising

Union n

Sun, a vessel bound to Norfolk, where the property was safely landed. Within about two days
after the transhipment, the Henry sunk, and was
totally lost, with the rest of the cargo. The master and crew escaped in their boat. In attempting
to makd their way to New-York, they were taken
up at sea, in an almost desperate situation.
The freight was abandoned to the underwriters,
and a demand was made of payment for that and
the ship; which being refused, this action was
brought to recover both. The sum demanded by
the writ and declaration was 20,000 dollars, and
the loss declared on was by the dangers of the
seas, one of the perils mentioned in the policy.
On the plea of nil debet, issue was joined, and
the case went to trial.
At the trial, the plaintiff gave the charter party
in. evidence, as one of the documents necessary
or proper for establishing the neutrhl character of
the vessel and freight; but there was no evidence
of its having been at any time produced or mentioned to the defendants, or in any manner known
to them. He also proved his own national character, and that of the ship, his interest in the ship
and freight. the commencement and prosecution
of the voyage, and the loss and abandonment. By
an admission at the bar he expressly limited his
demand of freight to that earned on the 120 boxes

OF THE UNITED STATES.

299

of sugar, amounting to 420 dollars; and renounced 1823.
all claim to any further or other sum on that ac- Hogke
V.
count.
Union h&
The defendants then gave in evidence the se- Company.
parate policy on the freight, which is mentioned
above; and also produced evidence tending to
show, that the plaintiff, in his management respecting the said ship, after the leak was discovered,
was guilty of gross negligence, in not using such
means as were in his power for condur.ting the
said ship into a place of safety in the Delaware ;
and that he might have conducted her into a place
of safety there, had he used those means.
The plaintiff then gave evidence of the causes,
nature, and duration of the delay at the Matanzas,
as stated above, and of the effect produced on the
risk by unlading the cargo.there; He also gave
in evidence, that after the said leak was discovered, the plaintiff did all in his power, according to
his skill and ability, to save the said ship, and to
conduct her safely to her port of destination; and
that there was no place of safety in the Delaware
to which the said ship could have been conducted,
nearer, or more easily reached, -in the state of the
wind and weather at that time, than New-York.
The defendants then prayed the opinion of the
Court, and their direction to the jury:
1. That if the jury should be of opinion, from
the evidence, that the cargo shipped at Teneriffe,
which the order for insurance of the 18th of May,
1807, mentions, and which the charter party, and
the policy of insurance upon freight of the 1st of
June, 1807, read in evidence on this trial, also

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\the

Hiqgbes

V.

COMPLY.

mentions, was landed, and finally separated from
ship at Matanzas, and was there delivered by
the plaintiff,. at the *instance of the freighters, and

accepted by the freighters, the plaintiff receiving
from the said freighters 7000 dollars, in lieu of all
demands upon the said charter party, including the
whole freight to the Hav'anna; and that a cargo
of sugar, for'an entirely new account and risk, to
wit, for the account and risk of Le Roy, Bayard &
.M'Evers, of New-York, ivas, by.the plaintiff, taken
in at the Havanna, with which the ship sailed upon
her voyage to New-York, as proved by the plaintiff's testimony, then the plaintiff is not entitled
to a verdict for any freight, upon the issue and
pleadings in this cause.
2. That if the jury should find, from the plaintiff's declaration, and the evidence, that the cargo
shipped at Teneriffe, which the order for insurance
of the 18th of May, 1807, mentions, and which
the charter party, and the policy of insurance upon
freight of the Ist of June, 1807, read in evidence
on this trial, also mention, was landed, and finally
separated from the ship, at the ,Matanzas, by the
freighters and the plaintiff, and was there delivered
by the plaintiff, and accepted by the freighters,
and their contract of freightment abandoned, the
plaintiff receiving from the said freighters the sum
of 7000 dollars, in lieu of all demands upon the
said charter party, including the whole-freight to
the Havanna; and that a cargo for an entirely new
aceount and risk, to wit, for the account and risk
of Le Roy, Bayard & iWEvers, of New-York,
was, by the plaintiff, taken in at the Havanna,

OF THE UNITED STATES:

with which the ship sailed to New-York, as proved
by the plaintiff's testimony; and further,- that in
the course of her said voyage to New-York, a part

1823.
Hughes

I v.

Union Ins.

of the said cargo was transhipped into the Rising Company.
Sun, as stated in the plaintiff's 'evidence; and if
they also find, that the risk was increased by taking
in the new cargo aforesaid, and the transhipment
aforesaid, beyond what it would have been, had
the said ship proceeded in ballast from the Havanna to New-York, then the policy was wholly
discharged, and the plaintiff cannot recover as to
the vessel, on the issue and proceedings in this
case.
3. That if the jury should be of opinion, from
the evidence, that the plaintiff had an opportunity
of causing the said ship, after the discovery of the
leak, to be carried into the Delaware, or elsewhere,
and there saved from the total loss which afterwards happened, and that he did not act with pro-'
per and reasonable care, in forbearing to do so,
he is not entitled to recover in this action.
These directions were given by the Court, who
further instructed the jury, that this was a valued
policy, on which an action of debt lies; the sum
claimed being specified by an agreement of the
parties. But the whole must be recovered, or no,
part of it can be recovered. In this suit, the action is for two distinct sums, 18,000 dollars on
the ship, and 2000 dollars on the freight. The
party can recover either entire, and not the other;
but not a portion of either, without accounting
for the residue.
To these opinions and directions, the plaintiff

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'rendered
Hugts

V.

Union Ins.

F6. 6th.

took a bill of exceptions, on which judgment was
for the defendants, and the cause was
brought by writ of error to this Court.
Mr. Harper,for the plaintiff,
made the following points:

1. That there was no connexion whatever between the policy and the charter party; which not
having been made known to the underwriters, can
make no part of the contract, nor in any manner
affect it.
2. That the policy on the freight alone, however 'it might have been affected by the payment
at'the. Havanna, had an action been brought on it,
cannot affect the present case ; the policy in which
expressly declares, that the whole freight on the
'wvhole voyage insured, should be valued at 12,000
dollars, of which only 2000 were to be covered by
that policy; a declaration entirely conformable to
the order on which both policies were made.
3. That the receipt of 7000 dollars at the Havanna, if it had been in full of all claims under the
charter party, could not affect the plaintiff's claim
in this case; because the policy has no connexion
with the charter party, and the freight now claimed arose on a voyage entirely different from the
one. described in that instrument.
4. That the reeeipt of the 7000 dollars at the
Havanna was not in flll satisfaction of all claims
and rights under the charter party; but merely
" in full of all demands.for freight or otherwise,
under or by virtue of the aforesaid charterparty
and cargo;" that is, in full payment of the freight

OF THE UNITED STATES.

due, under the charter party or otherwise, on the
cargo brought from Teneriffe, and landed at Alatanzas,

N3
1823.
Hughes
V.
Union Ins

5. That although the action brought is debt, Company.
and the sum declared for on account of freight is
2000 dollars, yet less may be recovered in such a
case as the present; where the right to recover
depends not on the contract alone, but on matter
dehors and independent.a
6. And, consequently, that the first direction
was wrong, and also the third, which applies to the
form of the action; a point equally open under
the first application.
And as to the second instruction,
1. That for the true construction and character
of this contract, we are to look to the policy alone,
or at most to that and the order for insurance.
The charter party not being referred to in the
order, or in any manner made known to the defendants, cannot be taken into view.
2. That the policy and the order make two distinct voyages, or one voyage divided into two distinct parts; so that, at the termination of the first
voyage, or of the first section, the first cargo might
be discharged, and a new one taken in for the
second section.
3. That the plaintiff thus having a right to take
in a new cargo at the Havanna, for the residue of
the voyage, it was his duty to use all proper means
for the preservation of that cargo; and, consea Incledon v. Crips, 2 Salk. 658. S. C. under the name of
Ingedew v. Crips, 2 Lord Raym. 814.

CASES5 IN THE SUPREME COURT

quently, ao delay, deviation, or increase of risk,
arising from the use of such means, can affect his
Hugbeb
V.
claim on the underwriters on the ship.
union,"u
4. And, consequently, that the second direction
Company. alsowas erroneous.
18a2&

Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra, argued, that the insurance was altogether restricted to the voyage
mentioned and stipulated in the charter party, and
that the voluntary surrender of that contract at the
Matanzas, annihilated the contract of insurance
onthe freight. That the receipt of a compensation by way of compromise for the, freight, as stipulated, on the voyage from the Havanna io NewYork, was, in fact, the receipt of the whole freight
for. that voyage. And that taking in a cargo at the
Havaiana, not provided for hy the charter party, or
mentioned in the representation to the underwriters, terminated the insurance on the vessel, and
discharged the underwriters altogether." He also
insisted, that the direction of the Court, as to the
form of action, was correctb
Feb.

15a.

Mr. Justice JooNsorq delivered the opinion of
the Court. This suit was instituted on a policy
of insurance on ,the ship Henry, and on the freight
to be earned by her, on a voyage from Teneriffe
to Havanna, and thence to New-York. Eighteen
thousand dollars on the ship, and two thousand
a 1 Marsh. on Ins. 92, 98. Thompson v. Taylor, 6 Term Rep.
478. Horncastle v. Stewart, 7 East's Rep. 400.
b The United States v. Colt, I Peters' jr. Rep. 145. and the
authorities there cited.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dollars on the freight, were insured in this policy;
and another sum of ten thousand dollars on the

305
1825.
Hughes

freight, was insured in a distinct policy, by the
v.
same Company. At the trial, the defendants Copany.
prayed .certain instructions to the jury, which the
Court gave, and added a further instruction in
their favour, in pursuance of which, the jury found
for the defendants below. The question is, whether the instructions so given were conformable to
the law of the case.
This must depend upon the construction of the
policy, as modified by the representations made
at the time of the contract.
The vessel, it appears, was at Teneriffe when
the -order for insurance was written, and had engaged in the transportation of Spanish property,
to be covered as American, in the manner specified in the representation. By the charter party,
John -Paul Dumeste appears as the owner and affreighter of the goods, and the voyage stipulated
for is precisely that insured againat, to wit, from
.Teneriffe to Havanna, (under the disguise of
New-Orleans,): with liberty to put into Matanzas,
and from -Havanna to New-York. There is no
imputation of unfairness; the nature of the voyagewas distinctly understood between the parties ;
and the only question which goes to the negation
of the ight of recovery of freight altogether, is
raised upon the supposed termination of the voyage insured against at Matanzas, and the actual
receipt there of the whole freight insured. And
as against the sum insured on the vessel, the defendants insist, that the act of taking in a cargo at
VOL. VI.

39

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18,2S.
'-.,,"

Hughes

V.

Union.

the Havanna, which was not permitted by the contract of insurance, avoided the contract.

The argument is, that the insurance was altogether confined to the voyage stipulated for under
the charter party.
And it has been contended, that the voluntary
surrender of that contract at the Matanzas, put
an end to the voyage, or to the adventure insured.
That the receipt of a compensation, by way of
compromise, for the 7000 dollars freight, stipulated for on the voyage from Havanna to New-York,
was in fact the receipt of the whole freight on that
voyage.
And, lastly, that taking in a cargo at the Havanna, not in contemplation under the charter
party or representation, put an end to the insurance
on the vessel, and discharged the underwriters
altogether.
It is obvious, that if this case be disposed of
upon the contract, as exhibited on the face of the
policy, the right of the plaintiff to recover would
be unquestionable. The defendants, however,
avail themselves of the right of insisting on the
contract, such as it really was in the intendment
of the parties, whatever the policy might purport
on the- face of it.
The benefit of the same principle, therefore,
cannot be withheld from their adversary ; and, accordingly, the existence of a charter party becomes altogether an immaterial circumstance in
the case. No mention of it was made in the
representation; and the voyage might have been
prosecuted without it. The representation was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

307

the document to which the parties were referred 182S,
for their respective undertakings. Engaging in
A voyage different from that, whether with or withv.
Union Ins.
outa charterparty, would have vitiated the contract.
to that
But a charter party so strictly conforming
representation, would only leave the parties where
it found them; and answered no other purpose
than to furnish the authentic evidence of freight
engaged, in case of loss, while sailing under it.
And this is the whole effect of the cases cited to
sustain this supposed intimate and mutual dependence between policies and charter parties.
Has, then, the representation been complied
with substantially ?
This depends upon the real nature of the voyage insured ; in considering which, it is obvious,
that although it was indispensable that the American mantle should be thrown over the cargo, it
was by no means so that the cargo should continue
to need the protection of that mantle. It would
be as reasonable to contend, that, if Spain had
ceased to be a belligerent, or John Paul Dumeste,
instead of being the nominal, had become the
real owner of the cargo, the contract of insurance
would have been avoided. We consider a representation of property, being covered as American,
as substantially compliedwith, if the property be
actually American: And as the presence and
agency of John Paul. Dumeste, had the cloaking
of the property as their sole object,- that his presence was dispensed with when the cargo became
actually American.
So much for the national character of the shipper. And as to his identity, we see nothing in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
,
Hughas
V.
'llon
Cowpany.

the contract to prevent the change which took
place under the transactions at Matanzas and the
Havanna, It, is very clear, that, provided John
Paul Dumeste had continued in the capacity of
stipposed owner, the representation
would have
-admitted of taking in a cargo from the Havanna,
belonging to any other Spanish subjects than the
shippers from Teneriffe. The plaintiff, then, was
not bound by any thing in the representation, to
hold the original shippers to their contract, but was
left at large, as in all such carrying voyages, to
do the best he could for himself in earning freight;
provided the cargo still continued covered as American. He was, then, at liberty to change the
actual shippe'r; and he. has done nothing more in
compounding with the Spanish charterers, and
putting his vessel up as a general ship at the
Havanna. •
But, it is contended, that by the composition
made at thb Matanzas, the plaintiff has actually
,eceived what he is now suing for, to wit, his
freight from Havanna to New-York.
Plausible as this argument appears, we are of
opinion, that the facts will not sustain it.' The
sum received in composition, to wit, 7000 dollars, (from which, we presume, was deducted both
primage and specific compensation, as stipulated
for under the charter party,) could not have been
for the hire of the vessel to New-York. To say
nothing of the difference in amount, what interest
could the first charterers have had in sending her
empty to New-York? The true understanding
of the arrangement is, that those shippers pur-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

S09

chased a release from the obligation to find a cargo 1823.
for New-York, and thus avoided paying the aum
T.
of 7000 dollars. The master then took the ri*
Union Ii.
of not being able to procure a freight for the last Company.
port of his voyage. This was the consideration
of the composition paid him, and events 1roved,
that he made a very hard bargain for himself and
a very beneficial one for the underwriters. Had
the vessel taken in full freight from the Havanna
for New-York, it might have been a question, upon
the loss happening, whether the underwriters were
entitled to deduct the 7000 dollars so received;
but in the present state of facts, no question can
be raised upon it, but that which has been raised,
to wit, whether it operated as a receipt in full to
the underwriters for all freight that might, by possibility, be engaged on the remaining voyage. We
have expressed our opinion that it did not.
With regard to that part of the instruction which
was voluntarily given by the Court, it is necessary
to remark, that although it does not appear to have
been moved by the defendants' counsel, yet it was
on a point certainly presented by the case; and as it
is one on which.this cause may, by possibility, be
again brought up to this Court, it is proper now
to decide it.
So far as relates to the policy on the ship, there
can be no difficulty. The plaintiff is entitled to
the whole, or nothing. We are of opinion, that
he was entitled to the whole. Bat as the plaintiff
demands only the sum of 420 dollars for freight
from the Havanna, the question arises, whether, in
this form of action, he could recover less than the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
%

2000 dollars specified in the contract, and claimed
by the writ.

HughesV.jury,

On this point the Court charged the

" that the whole must be recovered, or no
Union Ins. part of it could be recovered ; that the party could
recover either of the two sums
claimed, entire,

without the other, but not a portion of either without accounting for the residue."
On this subject, this Court is satisfied, that the
law of the action of debt is the same now that it
has been for centuries past. That the judgment
must be responsive to the writ, and musf, therefore, either be given for the whole sum demanded,
or exhibit the cause why it is given for a less sum.
Otherwise non constat,but the difference still remains due. That this is the law where an entire sum is demanded in the writ, and shown by the
counts to consist of several distinct debts, is established by the case of Andrews v. De la Hay;
(Hobart, 178.) that the law is the same where an
entire sum is demanded, and only half of it established, is laid down expressly in the case of
Speak v. Richards, in the same book, (209,210.)
and adjudged in the case of Grobbam v. Thornborough, (82.) and in the more modern case of
Ingledew v. Crips, (2 Lord Raym. 814-816.)
Our own Courts, in several of the States and Districts, have also recognised and conformed to the
same doctrine.
And the same cases establish, that the requisite
conformity between the writ and judgment, in the
action of debt, may be fully complied with, either
by the pleadings, the finding of the jury, or a remit-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ter entered by the plaintiff, either before or after 182.
verdict, or even after demurrer.
v.
If, therefore, the instruction to the jury on this
point, was intended to intimate, that they
the Union
thancould
any less sum
not find for the plaintiff

2000 dollars valued on the freight, we deem it exceptionable ; inasmuch as the plaintiff had a right
to claim a verdict for the freight established by
the evidence, and enter a remitter for the difference."
There was another question made by the defendants' counsel, on the argument, which had relation to the quantum of the sum to be recovered
for freight under this policy. It was contended,
that it ought to be reduced by reference to the
ratio which it bears to the other policy executed
on the same freight. But we decline deciding
the point, as well because it is not brought up
under the bill of exceptions, as because we cannot
discover how it can affect the interests of the parties, silice both policies were executed between
the same parties upon the same representation.
Judgment reversed, and a venire de nomo
awarded.
JUDGMENT.
This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit

u This question respecting the action of debt, is so fully discued and settled in the case of the United States v. Colt 1 Petew'

jr. Rep. 145. that the editor has taken the liberty of subjoining, in
the Appendix to the present volume, Note IL, the very able judgment of Mr. Justice WAsHINGTON in that case.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Buel
V.
Vax Nes,

Court of the United States for the District of Maand was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the

Sryland,

said Circuit Court erred in the first and second
instructions given to the jury, as prayed for by the
defendants' counsel, and in the voluntary opinion
of said Circuit Court, so far as the said opinion
was intended to instruct the jury, that they oqIld

not find any less sum than two thousanddollars
valued on the freight.

It is, therefore, ADJUDGED and ORDERED, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of Maryland, in this case,

be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled:
and it is further ORDERED, that said cause be re-

manded to said Circuit Court, with instructions to
issue a venirefacias de novo.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

PRACTICE.]

BUEL V. VAN NESS.
'The appellate jurisdiction of this Court, under the 25th sec. of the
Judiciary .Act of 1789, c. 20., may be exercised by a writ of error
issued by the clerk of a Circuit Court, under the seal of that
Court, in the form prescribed by the Act of the 8th of May, 1792,
c. 137. s. 9.; and the writ itself need not state that it is diected to
aghet
afinal judgment of the State Court, or that the Court is the
Court of law or equity of the State.
fhe appellate jurisdiction of this Court, in cases brought ftom the
State Courts, arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of
the union, is not limited by the value of the matter in dispute.

