LABOR BOARD v. CHENEY LUMBER CO. 385
372

Syllabus.

is required, under the General Motors decision, to be the
same. That ruling cannot be avoided by inverting the
length of the term specified and, correlatively, the character of the option added. Nor can it be avoided by
construing the term taken, in view of the contingent
option, in cases of the Petty type as including all of the
interest of the lessee, if in fact the Government exercises
the option and surrenders the premises before the lessee's
term expires. Upon such a showing the General Motors
rule would apply and the owner-lessee would be entitled
to recover compensation including all of the elements
specified in that rule, subject only to making proof of

them.
This question I think sufficiently important to be explicitly reserved for decision when a case arises requiring
application of the General Motors rule to such a situation.
I do not understand the Court to rule to the contrary,
since there is no showing on this record that the Government has exercised its option. I therefore concur in the
decision as it is rendered upon the record which has been
presented.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
CHENEY CALIFORNIA LUMBER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 319. Argued January 9, 10, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. Upon findings that an employer had engaged in unfair labor practices in violation of § 8 of the National Labor Relations Act, the
National Labor Relations Board ordered the employer to cease
and desist from (a) prohibited discrimination against employees
in regard to hire or tenure, and "(b) In any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in the exercise
of the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor
organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of
their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

as guaranteed in Section 7 of the Act." Upon the Board's petition for enforcement of the order, the circuit court of appeals
struck out paragraph (b). Held that, since no objection to the
paragraph was raised before the Board or any agent thereof, and
since the failure or neglect was unexcused, the circuit court of
appeals, by virtue of § 10 (e) of the Act, was without authority to
strike the paragraph from the order. P. 387.
2. Labor Board v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, differentiated. P. 387.
149 F. 2d 333, reversed.

Upon a petition to the circuit court of appeals for enforcement of an order of the Labor Board, the court
modified the order and decreed enforcement as modified.
149 F. 2d 333. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
706. Reversed, p. 389.
Ruth Weyand argued the cause for petitioner. With
her on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath and
Isadore Greenberg.
No appearance for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Cheney California Lumber Company, the respondent,
operated a sawmill at Greenville, California. Some employees of the Company were members of Lumber and
Sawmill Workers, Local 2647, affiliated with the American Federation of Labor. The union complained to the
National Labor Relations Board that the Company had
engaged in unfair labor practices, in violation of § 8 of the
Wagner Act, 49 Stat. 449, 452, 29 U. S. C. § 158. Following the usual procedure, there was a hearing before a trial
examiner who made an intermediate report, including
specific recommendations for a cease-and-desist order.
The Company filed no exceptions to this report, nor did
it request an oral argument before the Board. Upon due
consideration, the Board adopted the findings, conclusions,
and recommendations of the trial examiner. 54 N. L. R. B.

LABOR BOARD v. CHENEY LUMBER CO. 387
385

Opinion of the Court.

205. Thereupon the Board asked the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to enter a decree upon its
order. The Company then proposed modifications of the
Board's order, which were granted by the court below.
149 F. 2d 333. The Government petitioned for certiorari
urging that one of the changes made by the Circuit Court
of Appeals was based on a misconception of Labor Board v.
Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, as to the allowable
scope of the Board's power "to effectuate the policies" of
the Act. § 10 (c), 49 Stat. 454, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (c). So
we brought the case here. 326 U. S. 706. Upon the argument, this was the only modification to which the Government objected. We shall not consider the others. The
court below struck out from the Board's order paragraph
1 (b) whereby the Company was ordered, after appropriate treatment of the unfair labor practice arising from
prohibited discharge of employees, to cease and desist from
"(b) In any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in the exercise of the
right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor
organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in
concerted activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, as guaranteed in Section 7 of the Act."
The court found warrant for its excision of this provision in Labor Board v. Express Publishing Co., supra.
That case, however, recognized that it was within the
power of the Board to make an order precisely like 1 (b).
It merely held that whether such an inclusive provision
as 1 (b) is justified in a particular case depends upon the
circumstances of the particular case before the Board.
See 312 U. S. at 433, 437-38. Here the trial examiner
recommended the inclusion of 1 (b) on the basis of his
review of past hostilities by the Company against efforts
at unionization; no exception was made either to the findings or to this recommendation; upon full consideration
of the record the Board adopted the trial examiner's

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

recommendation; no objection was raised by the Company
until after the Board sought judicial enforcement of its
order. The objection came too late.
When judicial review is available and under what circumstances, are questions (apart from whatever requirements the Constitution may make in certain situations)
that depend on the particular Congressional enactment
under which judicial review is authorized. Orders of the
National Labor Relations Board are enforceable by decrees of circuit courts of appeals. In such an enforcement
proceeding, a court of appeals may enforce or modify or
set aside the Board's order. § 10 (e), 49 Stat. 454, 29
U. S. C. § 160 (e). Since ","e court is ordering entry of
a decree, it need not render such a decree if the Board has
patently traveled outside the orbit of its authority so that
there is, legally speaking, no order to enforce. But the
proper scope of a Board order upon finding unfair labor
practices calls for ample discretion in adapting remedy to
violation. We have said that "in the nature of things
Congress could not catalogue all the devices and stratagems for circumventing the policies of the Act. Nor
could it define the whole gamut of remedies to effectuate
these policies in an infinite variety of specific situations.
Congress met these difficulties by leaving the adaptation
of means to end to the empiric process of administration.
The exercise of the process was committed to the Board,
subject to limited judicial review." Phelps Dodge Corp.
v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.. 177, 194.
A limitation which Congress has placed upon the power
of courts to review orders of the Labor Board is decisive
of this case. Section 10 (e) of the Act commands that
"No objection that has not been urged before the Board,
its member, agent or agency, shall be considered by the
court, unless the failure or neglect to urge such objection
shall be excused because of extraordinary circumstances."
We have heretofore had occasion to respect this explicit
direction of Congress. Marshall Field & Co. v. Labor

LABOR BOARD v. CHENEY LUMBER CO. 389
385

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

Board, 318 U. S. 253; and see May Department Stores
Co. v. Labor Board, 326 U. S. 376, 386, n. 5. By this provision, Congress has said in effect that in a proceeding for
enforcement of the Board's order the court is to render
judgment on consent as to all issues that were contestable
before the Board but were in fact not contested. Cf. Pope
v. United States, 323 U. S. 1. We can say of this case,
as was said of the Marshall Field case, supra, that -it"gives
emphasis to the salutary policy adopted by § 10 (e) of
affording the Board opportunity to consider on the merits
questions to be urged upon review of its order." Marshall
Field & Co. v. Labor Board, supra, at 256. The appropriateness of such a prohibition as the Board's order contains depends, as the Express Publishing Company case,
supra, abundantly shows, upon evidence found by the
Board disclosing a course of conduct against which such
an order may be the only proper remedy. The Board here
so found. Justification of such an order, which necessarily involves consideration of the facts which are the foundation of the order, is not open for review by a court if no
prior objection has been urged before the case gets into
court and there is a total want of extraordinary circumstances to excuse "the failure or neglect to urge such objection . . ." Congress desired that all controversies of
fact, and the allowable inferences from the facts, be
threshed out, certainly in the first instance, before the
Board. That is what the Board is for. It was therefore
not within the power of the court below to make the deletion it made.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

concurring.

I concur on a ground which the Court's .opinion points
out and which is alone sufficient to sustain its decision,

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE, C. J., concurring.

327 U. S.

namely, that the court below erroneously applied Labor
Board v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426. But
I cannot say that when the court below was appealed to as
a court of equity to enforce by its injunction the Board's
order, § 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act
rendered the court powerless to frame its own injunction
consistently with the record, on which that section requires
it to act, and in conformity to accepted principles governing the scope of the injunction; or that if the tables
were turned the section would require the reviewing court
to repeat, by the excessive scope of its injunction, the
very abuse of power condemned by the Express Publishing Company case.
The prohibition by § 10 (e) of the court's consideration
of objections which the parties did not urge before the
Board is a limitation upon the court's review of the
grounds for granting or denying relief. This Court has
treated it as such. See Marshall Field & Co. v. Labor
Board, 318 U. S. 253. But we have not held that § 10 (e)
could, and I think it cannot rightly, be construed to be
also a limitation on the court's power to conform its own
process to accepted legal standards applied to the "entire
record" which § 10 (e) requires to be filed with it. Nor
is that prohibition a command to the court to act as a mere
ministerial agency to execute the order of the Board, without regard to those standards which control the court's
use of its own process, even though the Board and the
parties have ignored them.
Only recently we have held that the imposition of a
mandatory duty on a federal court of equity to restrain
violations of a statute is not to be taken as depriving the
court of its traditional power to administer its remedies
according to its own governing principles and in conformity to the standards of public interest. See Hecht
Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321, 331. In that case we held
that a command explicitly addressed to a court of equity,

LABOR BOARD v. CHENEY LUMBER CO. 391
385

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

by § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942,
to grant an injunction enforcing the act when violation of
it is shown, did not deprive the court of its equitable discretion to grant or withhold an injunction. It has been
well said that § 205 (a), which directs that the court upon
showing of violation "shall" grant the injunction, "does
not change the historic conditions for the exercise by
courts of equity of their power to issue injunctions . .
321 U. S. 331.
It should likewise be held that the present statute does
not alter the power of a court of equity to frame its injunction according to equitable principles applied in the
light of the record on which it must act. Here the statute
is not mandatory. It does not purport to curtail the
court's power to define the scope of its process. The
section only confers on the court the power to make "a
decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified,
or setting aside in whole or in part the order of the Board."
This emphasizes what was implicit in the statute involved in the Hecht case, and made explicit by the opinion,
that when a statute authorizes an appeal to equity to
enforce a liability created by statute, the exercise is invoked of those powers which pertain to it as a court of
equity. This at least includes the power to fix, on its
own motion, the scope of the decree which it may be required to enforce by contempt proceedings, in conformity
to recognized equitable standards applied to the record
before it.

