OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 292.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 7, 1945.-Decided February 4, 1946.
1. In a criminal prosecution under the Selective Training and Service
Act of 1940 for wilfully failing and refusing to submit to induction, a registrant who appeared at the induction center and was
finally accepted, but who refused to submit to induction-having
pursued his administrative remedy to the end-may interpose
the defense that the action of his local board in rejecting his
claim of exemption as a minister of religion and classifying him as
available for military service was beyond its jurisdiction. Falbo v.
United States, 320 U. S. 549, distinguished. P. 121.
2. Action of a local board which is contrary to the Act or the regulations prescribed pursuant thereto is beyond the jurisdiction of the
board. Pp. 120, 121.
3. The fact that the Selective Training and Service Act makes no
provision for judicial review of the action of local boards or the
appeal agencies is not necessarily to be construed as a denial of the
power of the federal courts to grant relief in the exercise of the
general jurisdiction which Congress has conferred upon them.
P. 119.
4. Apart from constitutional requirements, the question whether judicial review will be provided where Congress is silent depends on
the whole setting of the particular statute and the scheme of regulation which is adopted. P. 120.
5. Except when the Constitution requires it, judicial review of administrative action may be granted or withheld as Congress chooses.
P. 120.
6. Section 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act is not to be
read as requiring courts to sanction orders which flagrantly violate
the rules and regulations defining the jurisdiction of the local
boards. P. 121.
7. The provision of the Act making decisions of the local boards
"final" means that Congress chose not to give administrative action
under the Act the customary scope of judicial review which obtains
under other statutes; that the courts are not to weigh the evidence
to determine whether the classification made by the local board was
*Together with No. 66, Smith v. United States, on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Argued and decided on the same dates.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

justified; and that decisions of the local boards made in conformity
with the regulations are conclusive even though they may be
erroneous. P. 122.
8. On judicial review the question of the jurisdiction of the local board
is reached only if there is no basis in fact for the classification given
the registrant. P. 122.
150 F. 2d 768, 148 F. 2d 288, reversed.

No. 292. Petitioner was convicted of a violation of the
Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. The circuit
court of appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 768. This Court
granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 703. Reversed, p. 125.
No. 66. Petitioner was convicted of a violation of the
Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. The circuit
court of appeals affirmed. 148 F. 2d 288. This Court
granted certiorari. 325 U. S. 846. Reversed, p. 125.
Hayden C. Covington argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Grover C. Powell and Curran
E. Cooley.
Irving S. Shapiro argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the briefs were 'Solicitor General
McGrath and Robert S. Erdahl. Walter J. Cummings,
Jr., also was on the brief in No. 292.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S. 549, we held that
in a criminal prosecution under § 11 of the Selective
Training and Service Act of 1940 (54 Stat. 894, 50 U. S. C.
App. § 311) a registrant could not defend on the ground
that he was wrongfully classified and was entitled to a
statutory exemption, where the offense was a failure to
report for induction into the armed forces or for work of
national importance.' We found no provision for judicial
ISec. 5 (g) of the Act provides that a registrant shall "be assigned
to work of national importance under civilian direction" if he is conscientiously opposed to induction into the armed services even for
noncombatant service. See Selective Service Regulations, 652.1652.14, 653.1-653.16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

review of a registrant's classification prior to the time
when he had taken all the steps in the selective process
and had been finally accepted by the armed services. The
question in these cases is whether there may be judicial
review of his classification in a prosecution under § 11
where he reported for induction, was finally accepted, but
refused to submit to induction.
Estep's local board classified him as I-A, i. e., as available for military service.! Sec. 5 (d) of the Act exempts
from training and service (but not from registration)
"Regular or duly ordained ministers of religion ... "
Under the regulations those in that category are classified
as IV-D.3 Estep, a member of Jehovah's Witnesses,
claimed that he was entitled to that classification. The
local board ruled against him. He took his case to the
appeal board which classified him as I-A.4 He then asked
the State and National Directors of Selective Service to
appeal to the President for him.' His request was refused. The local board thereupon ordered him to report
for induction. He reported at the time and place indicated. He was accepted by the Navy. But he refused
to be inducted, claiming that he was exempt from service
because he was an ordained minister of the gospel.
Selective Service Regulations, 622.11.
3 Id., 622.44.
4 By § 10 (a) (2) of the Act the President was authorized to establish "civilian local boards and such other civilian agencies, including
appeal boards and agencies of appeal, as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this Act." The provisions governing appeals to the
boards of appeal are contained in 627.1-627.61 of the regulations.
The Act provides a special appeal procedure for conscientious objectors. See § 5 (g).
5 Either of them may take such an appeal at any time when he
"deems it to be in the national interest or necessary to avoid an injustice . . ." Selective Service Regulations, 628.1. A registrant may
appeal to the President when he is classified as I-A provided one
or more of the board of appeal dissented from such classification.
Id., 628.2. In Estep's case the board of appeal was unanimous in
classifying him in I-A.
2

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

He was indicted under § 11 of the Act for wilfully failing and refusing to submit to induction.' He sought to
defend on the ground that as a Jehovah's Witness he was
a minister of religion and that he had been improperly
denied exemption from service, because the classifying
agencies acted arbitrarily and capriciously in refusing to
classify him as IV-D. He also claimed that his right to
an effective appeal had been denied because the local
beard unlawfully withheld certain relevant documents
from the appeal board and included improper material in
the record on appeal. The district court rejected these
defenses and did not permit the introduction of evidence
to sustain Estep's contention. The jury found him guilty
and he was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of five
years. On appeal the circuit court of appeals affirmed,
on a divided vote. 150 F. 2d 768.
Smith, like Estep, is a member of Jehovah's Witnesses.
He claimed exemption from all service on the ground that
he was a minister of religion. His local board placed him
in Class I-A, as available for military service. His classification was affirmed by the appeal board. On appeal to
the President his classification was again affirmed. The
local board then ordered him to report for induction. He
reported to the induction station, was accepted by the
military, but refused to be inducted, claiming he was
exempt from service because he was a minister. He was
inducted against his will and later was held for trial by a
general court-martial for disobedience of military orders.
He filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus which was
denied. Smith v. Richart, 53 F. Supp. 582. While his
6Sec. 11 so far as material here provides: "any person who . . .
shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform any duty required of him
under or in the execution of this Act, or rules or regulations made
pursuant to this Act, . ... shall, upon conviction in the district court
of the United States having jurisdiction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more than
$10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

appeal was pending, we decided Billings v. Truesdell, 321
U. S. 542. He was thereupon released from military custody and indicted for violation of § 11 of the Act. At the
trial he sought to attack the classification given him by his
local board, claiming, among other things, that it acted
without any foundation of fact, discriminated against him
because he was a Jehovah's Witness, and denied him the
right to make full proof of his claim that he was a minister of religion. The court ruled that no such defense
could be tendered. Smith was found guilty by the jury
and a sentence of three and one-half years was imposed.
The judgment of conviction was affirmed on appeal. 148
F. 2d 288.
The cases are here on petitions for writs of certiorari
which we granted because of the importance of the question presented.
Congress entrusted the administration of the Selective
Service System to civilian agencies, not to the military.
It authorized the President to create and establish a Selective Service System and to establish civilian local
boards and appeal boards to administer it. § 10 (a) (2).
The Selective Service System was designed to "provide
for the classification of registrants and of persons who volunteer for induction under this Act on the basis of availability for training and service . . ." Id. Congress
specified certain restricted classes for deferment 7 or exemption from service, including in the latter, as we have
said, "Regular or duly ordained ministers of religion . . ."
§ 5. The President was authorized to provide for the
deferment of other classes by rules and regulations." § 5
7 Thus by § 5 (c)

(1) specified classes of public officials were deferred from training and service while holding their offices.
8 The regulations placed in deferred classifications those whose employment in industry, agriculture, or other occupations or whose activity was found to be necessary to the maintenance of the national
health, safety, or interest; those who had, persons dependent on
them for support; those found to be physically, mentally, or morally
deficient or defective. See Selective Service Regulations 622.21,
622.25-1, 622.32, 622.61, 622.62.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

(e). And the local boards "under rules and regulations
prescribed by the President" were granted the "power
within their respective jurisdictions to hear and determine,
subject to the right of appeal to the appeal boards herein
authorized, all questions or claims with respect to inclusion for, or exemption or deferment from, training and
service under this Act of all individuals within the jurisdiction of such local boards." § 10 (a) (2). The Act
makes no provision in terms for judicial review of the actions of the local boards or the appeal boards. For § 10
(a) (2) states that the "decisions of such local boards shall
be final except where an appeal is authorized in accordance
with such rules and regulations as the President may
prescribe." '
By the terms of the Act Congress enlisted the aid of
the federal courts only for enforcement purposes. Sec.
11 makes criminal a wilful failure to perform any duty
required of a registrant by the Act or the rules or regulations made under it. An order to report for induction is
such a duty; and it includes the duty to submit to induction. Billings v. Truesdell, supra, p. 557. Sec. 11 confers
jurisdiction on the district courts to try one charged with
such offense. But § 11 is silent when it comes to the
defenses, if any, which may be interposed.
Thus we start with a statute which makes no provision
for judicial review of the actions of the local boards or the
appeal agencies. That alone, of course, is not decisive.
9The part of § 10 (a) (2) relevant here provides: "Such local
boards, under rules and regulations prescribed by the President, shall
have power within their respective jurisdictions to hear and determine,
subject to the right of appeal to the appeal boards herein authorized,
all questions or claims with respect to inclusion for, or exemption or
deferment from, training and service under this Act of all individuals
within the jurisdiction of such local boards. The decisions of such
local boards shall be final except where an appeal is authorized in
accordance with such rules and regulations as the President may
prescribe."

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

For the silence of Congress as to judicial review is not
necessarily to be construed as a denial of the power of the
federal courts to grant relief in the exercise of the general
jurisdiction which Congress has conferred upon them.
American School of Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94;
Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S. 3; Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S.
288. Judicial review may indeed be required by the Constitution. Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276. Apart
from constitutional requirements, the question whether
judicial review will be provided where Congress is silent
depends on the whole setting of the particular statute and
the scheme of regulation which is adopted. Switchmen's
Union v. Mediation Board, 320 U. S. 297, 301. And except when the Constitution requires it, judicial review of
administrative action may be granted or withheld as Congress chooses.
The authority of the local boards whose orders are the
basis of these criminal prosecutions is circumscribed both
by the Act and by the regulations. Their authority to
hear and determine all questions of deferment or exemption is, as stated in § 10 (a) (2), limited to action "within
their respective jurisdictions." It is only orders "within
their respective jurisdictions" that are made final. It
would seem, therefore, that if a Pennsylvania board ordered a citizen and resident of Oregon to report for induction, the defense that it acted beyond its jurisdiction could
be interposed in a prosecution under § 11. That case
would be comparable to Tung v. United States, 142 F. 2d
919, where the local board ordered a registrant to report
for induction without allowing him the appeal to which
he was entitled under the regulations. Since § 10 (a) (2)
makes the decisions of the local boards final "except where
an appeal is authorized" under the regulations, the defense
was allowed in the criminal trial.
Any other case where a local board acts so contrary to
its granted authority as to exceed its jurisdiction 0 does
10

See cases cited in note 14, infra.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

not stand on a different footing. By § 10 (a) (2) the local
boards, in hearing and determining claims for deferment
or exemption, must act "under rules and regulations prescribed by the President . . ." Those rules limit, as well
as define, their jurisdiction. One of those regulations forbids the local boards from basing their classification of a
registrant on a discrimination "for or against him because
of his race, creed, or color, or because of his membership or
activity in any labor, political, religious, or other organization." 623.1. Another provides, in accordance with
the mandate contained in § 5 (c) (1) of the Act, for the
deferment of governors of States and members of Congress while they hold their offices.11 622.42. Another
provides that the local b oard "shall reopen and consider
anew the classification of a registrant" on the written
request of the State Director or the Director and upon receipt of the request "shall immediately cancel" any order
to report for induction or for work of national importance.
626.2-1. If a local board ordered a member of Congress
to report for induction, or if it classified a registrant as
available for military service because he was a Jew, or a
German, or a Negro, it would act in defiance of the law.
If a local board refused to reopen on the written request
of the State Director a registrant's classification and refused to cancel its order to report for induction, it would
be acting in the teeth of the regulations. In all such cases
its action would be lawless and beyond its jurisdiction.
We cannot read § 11 as requiring the courts to inflict
punishment on registrants for violating whatever orders
the local boards might issue. We cannot believe that
Congress intended that criminal sanctions were to be
applied to orders issued by local boards no matter how
flagrantly they violated the rules and regulations which
define their jurisdiction. We are dealing here with. a
" 622.42 provides, "In Class IV-B shall be placed any registrant"
who holds specified offices.

(Italics added.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

question of personal liberty. A registrant who violates
the Act commits a felony.' A felon customarily suffers
the loss of substantial rights." Sec. 11, being silent on the
matter, leaves the question of available defenses in doubt.
But we are loath to resolve those doubts against the accused. We cannot readily infer that Congress departed
so far from the traditional concepts of a fair trial when
it made the actions of the local boards "final" as to provide that a citizen of this country should go to jail for not
obeying an unlawful order of an administrative agency.
We are loath to believe that Congress reduced criminal
trials under the Act to proceedings so barren of the customary safeguards which the law has designed for the
protection of the accused. The provision making the
decisions of the local boards "final" means to us that Congress chose not to give administrative action under this
Act the customary scope of judicial review which obtains
under other statutes. It means that the courts are not to
weigh the evidence to determine whether the classification
made by the local boards was justified. The decisions of
the local boards made in conformity with the regulations
are final even though they may be erroneous. The question of jurisdiction of the local board is reached only if
there is no basis in fact for the classification which it gave
"All offenses which may be punished by death or imprisonment
for a term exceeding one year shall be deemed felonies." Criminal
Code § 335, 18 U. S. C. § 541.
"ICalifornia: § 2600 of the Penal Code provides that a sentence of
imprisonment for less than life suspends all civil rights and forfeits
all public offices and private trusts, authority, or power during the
imprisonment.
New York: For a similar provision see § 510 of the Penal Law.
Missouri: § 4561 Rev. Stat. Ann. renders any person sentenced to
a penitentiary or convicted of a felony for any crime incompetent to
serve as a juror, and forever disqualifies him from voting or holding
office, unless pardoned.
12

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

See Goff v. United States, 135 F. 2d
the registrant
610, 612.
Falbo v. United States, supra, does not preclude such
a defense in the present cases. In the Falbo case the defendant challenged the order of his local board before he
had exhausted his administrative remedies. Here these
registrants had pursued their administrative remedies to
the end. All had been done which could be done. Submission to induction would be satisfaction of the orders of
the local boards, not a further step to obtain relief from
them. 5
If § 11 were not construed to permit the accused to defend on the ground that his local board acted beyond its
jurisdiction, a curious result would follow. The remedy
of habeas corpus extends to a case where a person "is in
custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law . . .
of the United States

. .

."

R. S. § 753, 28 U. S. C. § 453.

It has been assumed that habeas corpus is available only
1

That is the scope of judicial inquiry in deportation cases where
Congress has made the orders of deportation "final." Chin Yow v.
United States, 208 U. S. 8; Ng Fung Ho v. White, supra; Mahler v.
Eby, 264 U. S. 32; U. S. ex rel. Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigra.
tion, 273 U. S. 103; Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S. 135. That is also the
-scope of judicial inquiry when a registrant after induction seeks release
from the military by habeas corpus. See United States v. Cain, 144
F. 2d 944.
15
It is said that our conclusion runs counter to an unbroken line of
cases holding that a registrant may not challenge his classification in a
prosecution under § 11. But most of those cases on their facts involved only the issue presented by the Falbo case. In only a few of
them was the issue presented here necessary for decision. The question was reserved-in United States v. Pitt, 144 F. 2d 169, 173 (C. C. A.
3d, 1944). In the following cases, the question was necessary for decision, and it was held that the defense was not available: Fletcher
v. United States, 129 F. 2d 262 (C. C. A. 5th, 1942); United States v.
Rinko, 147 F. 2d 1 (C. C. A. 7th, 1945); Gibson v. United States, 149
F. 2d 751 (C. C. A. 8th, 1945); Koch v. United States, 150 F. 2d 762
(C. C. A. 4th, 1945).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

after a registrant has been inducted into the armed services. 6 But if we now hold that a registrant could not defend at his trial on the ground that the local board had no
jurisdiction in the premises, it would seem that the way
would then be open to him to challenge the jurisdiction of
the local board after conviction by habeas corpus." The
16 See United States v. Grieme, 128 F. 2d 811; United States v.
Kauten, 133 F. 2d 703; United States v. Mroz, 136 F. 2d 221; Biron
v. Collins, 145 F. 2d 758; Fujii v. United States, 148 F. 2d 298; Gibson
v. United States, 149 F. 2d 751. See Connor and Clarke, Judicial Investigation of Selective Service Action, 19 Tulane L. Rev. 344; Elliff,
Jehovah's Witnesses and the Selective Service Act, 31 Va. L. Rev. 811.
17The courts which have said that habeas corpus was available only
after induction (see note 16, supra) appear to have been influenced by
the decisions arising under the 1917 Act, 40 Stat. 76, 50 U. S. C. App.
§ 201. Thus in United States v. Grieme, supra, note 16, p. 814, the
court in ruling that the findings of the local boards were not reviewable
by the courts said, "Here again the rule is similar to the construction
placed upon the Selective Draft Act of 1917. See Ex parte Hutflis,
245 F. 798, 799." The latter case involved a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus after induction, which was the accepted way of challenging the jurisdiction of the draft boards under the 1917 Act. But
as we pointed out in Billings v. Truesdell, supra, p. 546, a registrant
under the 1917 Act was subject to military law from the time he was
ordered to present himself for induction. Defiance of the order was
held to constitute desertion even though the draftee had not been afforded a fair hearing by the board. Ex parte Romano, 251 F. 762;
Ex parte Tinkoff, 254 F. 912. It was said in Ex parte Romano, supra,
p. 764: "Although based on irregular proceedings, it was not void.
Until vacated, it was binding on the petitioner."
But as Billings v. Truesdell, supra, makes plain, the present Act and
the regulations promulgated under it are different. A registrant is
not subject to military law from the time he is ordered to report for
induction, but only after he has submitted to induction. Thus the decisions under the 1917 Act, holding that his remedy against unlawful
action of the local board is by way of habeas corpus after induction,
are no guide to decision under the present Act.
It is true that after the conviction of the defendant in the Falbo
case, his petition for a writ of habeas corpus was denied. 141 F. 2d
689. And in a like situation habeas corpus was denied in advance of
the trial. Albert v. Goguen, 141 F. 2d 302. But in those cases addi-

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

125

MuPHr, J., concurring.

court would then be sending men to jail today when it was
apparent that they would have to be released tomorrow.
We do not suggest that because Congress has provided
one judicial remedy another should be implied. We may
assume that where only one judicial remedy is provided,
it normally would be deemed exclusive. But the fact
that habeas corpus after conviction is available in these
cases gives added support to our reading of § 11. It supports a rejection of a construction of the Act that requires
the courts to march up the hill when it is apparent from
the beginning that they will have to march down again.
We express no opinion on the merits of the defenses
which were tendered. Since the petitioners were denied
the opportunity to show that their local boards exceeded
their jurisdiction,' a new trial must be had in each case.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, concurring.

To sustain the convictions of the two petitioners in
these cases would require adherence to the proposition
that a person may be criminally punished without ever
being accorded the opportunity to prove that the prosecution is based upon an invalid administrative order. That
is a proposition to which I cannot subscribe. It violates
the most elementary and fundamental concepts of due
process of law. It condemns a man without a full hearing
and a consideration of all of his alleged defenses. To sanctional steps in the selective service procedure remained to be taken.
Denial of habeas corpus followed by analogy to the familiar situations
where other corrective procedures bad been available which might
have afforded relief from the orders complained of. See Bowen v.
Johnston, 306 U. S. 19; Ex parte Williams, 317 U. S. 604; Ex parte
Hawk, 321 U. S. 114. But in the present cases the registrants, as we
have said, had pursued their administrative remedies to the end.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

tion such a proposition is to place an indelible "blot upon
our jurisprudence and civilization," McVeigh v. United
States, 11 Wall. 259, 267, which cannot be justified by
any appeal to patriotism or wartime exigencies.
The two courts below condemned the petitioners to
prison for failing to obey orders to report for induction
into the armed services, which had previously found them
physically fit. Petitioners do not deny that they disobeyed these orders. They do claim, however, that there
was a singular lack of procedural due process in the issuance of the induction orders and that the orders were
therefore invalid-claims that must be assumed to be
true for purposes of the cases before us. But the courts
below, relying upon Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S. 549,
forbade them from raising such claims. Under that view,
it is irrelevant that the petitioners had never had a prior
opportunity and will never have a future chance to test
these claims; it is likewise immaterial that the claims, if
proved, might completely absolve them from liability.
Thus the stigma and penalties of criminality attach to
one who wilfully disobeys an induction order which may
be constitutionally invalid, or unauthorized by statute or
regulation, or issued by mistake, or issued solely as the
result of bias and prejudice. The mere statement of such
a result is enough to condemn it.
The reasons advanced for thus depriving the petitioners
of their liberty without due process of law are unmeritorious.
First. It is said that Congress so designed the Selective
Training and Service Act of 1940 as to preclude courts
from inquiring into the validity of an induction order during the course of a prosecution under § 11 for a wilful failure to obey such an order. But if that is true, the Act is
unconstitutional in this respect. Before a person may be
punished for violating an administrative order due process
of law requires that the order be within the authority of

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

MuRPHY, J., concurring.

the administrative agency and that it not be issued in such
a way as to deprive the person of his constitutional rights.
A court having jurisdiction to try such a case has a clear,
inherent duty to inquire into these matters so that constitutional rights are not impaired or destroyed. Congress lacks any authority to negative this duty or to
command a court to exercise criminal jurisdiction without
regard to due process of law or other individual rights.
To hold otherwise is to substitute illegal, administrative
discretion for constitutional safeguards. As this Court
has previously said, "Under our system there is no warrant
for the view that the judicial power of a competent court
can be circumscribed by any legislative arrangement designed to give effect to administrative action going beyond
the limits of constitutional authority." St. Joseph Stock
Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38, 52. This principle has been applied many times in the past for the
benefit of corporations. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287, 289; Dayton-Goose Creek
R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456, 4a6; PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 432; Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210. I assume that an individual
is entitled to no less respect.
But the Act need not be construed so as to reach this
unconstitutional result. Nothing in the statute commands courts to shut their eyes to the Constitution or to
deny a full and fair hearing when performing their functions under § 11, and we should be unwilling to imply such
a prohibition. Once the judicial power is properly
invoked under § 11, a court has unquestioned authority
under the Constitution and the Judicial Code to accord
a defendant due process of law and to inquire into alleged
deprivations of constitutional rights despite the absence
of any specific authority under the Act to that effect. A
contrary result certainly is not dictated by the fact that
the Act makes local board decisions "final," subject to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

administrative appeal provisions. This merely determines the point of administrative finality, leaving to the
courts the ultimate and historical duty of judging the
validity of the "final" administrative orders which they
are called upon to enforce with criminal sanctions, at least
where no other method of judicial review is previously
available.
A construction of the Act so as to insure due process of
law and the protection of constitutional liberties is not an
amendment to the Act. It is simply a recognized use of
the interpretative process to achieve a just and constitutional result, coupled with a refusal to ascribe to Congress an unstated intention to cause deprivations of due
process.
Second. It is urged that the purpose and scheme of the
legislative program necessitate the foreclosure of a full
hearing in a criminal proceeding under § 11. The urgent
need of mobilizing the manpower of the nation for emergency purposes and the dire consequences of delay in that
process are emphasized. From this premise it is argued
that no "litigious interruption" in the selective process can
be tolerated and that judicial inquiry into the validity of
an induction order during the course of a criminal proceeding is a prime example of a "litigious interruption."
This argument, which was pressed so urgently and successfully in the Falbo case, conveniently ignores the realities of the situation. The selective process, in relation to
the petitioners, was finally and completely interrupted at
the time when they disobeyed the induction orders and
subjected themselves to possible criminal liability. Any
subsequent judicial review of the induction orders could
have no possible effect upon the continuance of the selective process and could bear no earmarks of a "litigious interruption." Thus at the time of petitioners' trials the
courts were confronted with accomplished interruptions
rather than with a theory. A decision at that point to

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

grant petitioners full hearings and to protect their constitutional rights would simply be a recognition of the fact
that the Constitution protects the petitioners whenever
their liberty is at stake, whatever may have been their
motives in disobeying the orders.
It is alleged, of course, that to allow a full hearing in a
criminal proceeding under this Act would be to extend an
open invitation to all inductees to disobey their induction
orders and litigate the validity of the orders in the subsequent trials. This is at best a poor excuse for stripping
petitioners of their rights to due process of law. Moreover, the degree to which judicial review at this stage would
encourage disobedience of induction orders lies in the
realm of conjecture and cannot be demonstrated one way
or the other by proof. But common sense would indicate
that the number of those willing to undergo the risk of
criminal punishment in order to test the validity of their
induction orders, with the attendant difficulties of proof,
would be extremely small. Adherence to due process of
law in criminal trials is unlikely to impede the war effort
unduly. And should perchance the opposite be true there
are undoubtedly legislative means of combating the
problem.
Third. The further suggestion is made that the only
judicial review of induction orders available is by means
of habeas corpus proceedings brought subsequent to induction and that this remedy satisfies whatever judicial
review may be required by the Constitution. I fully concur in the desirability and necessity of such a proceeding
for those who have been inducted and who wish to test
the validity of their induction orders.
It should be noted in passing, however, that this remedy
may be quite illusory in many instances. It requires one
first to eater the armed forces and drop every vestige of
civil rights. Military orders become the law of life and
violations are met with summary court-martial procedure.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

No more drastic condition precedent to judicial review
has ever been framed. Many persons with religious or
conscientious scruples are unable to meet such a condition.
But even if a person is inducted and a quest is made for
a writ of habeas corpus, the outlook is often bleak. The
proceeding must be brought in the jurisdiction in which
the person is then detained by the military, which may be
thousands of miles removed from his home, his friends,
his counsel, his local board and the witnesses who can testify in his behalf. Should he overcome all these obstacles
and possess enough money to proceed further, he still faces
the possibility of being shifted by the military at a moment's notice into another jurisdiction, thus making the
proceeding moot. There is little assurance, moreover,
that the military will treat his efforts to obtain the writ
with sympathetic understanding. These practical difficulties may thus destroy whatever efficacy the remedy
might otherwise have and cast considerable doubt on the
assumption that habeas corpus proceedings necessarily
guarantee due process of law to inductees.
But the availability of judicial review through habeas
corpus proceedings misses the issue in this case. Such a
proceeding may or may not provide an adequate remedy
for the person who has been inducted. We are dealing
here, however, with two persons who have not been inducted and who never will be inducted by force of the
orders under attack. The writ of habeas corpus following induction is thus a completely non-existent remedy so
far as these petitioners are concerned. It neither adds to
nor detracts from the reasons for granting judicial review
in these criminal proceedings.
If, as I believe, judicial review of some sort and at some
time is required by the Constitution, then when and where
can these petitioners secure that review? They have not
had a prior chance to obtain review of the induction orders; nor will they subsequently be accorded the oppor-

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114.

MURPHY, J., concurring.

tunity to test their contentions in court. It is no answer
that they should have pursued different courses of action
and secured writs of habeas corpus after induction. Due
process of law is not dispensed on the basis of what people
might have or should have done. The sole issue here is
whether due process of law is to be granted now or never.
The choice seems obvious.
By denying judicial review in this criminal proceeding,
the courts below in effect said to each petitioner: You
have disobeyed an allegedly illegal order for which you
must be punished without the benefit of the judicial review required by the Constitution, although if you had
obeyed the order you would have had all the judicial review necessary. I am at a loss to appreciate the logic
or justice of that position. It denies due process of law
to one who is charged with a crime and grants it to one who
is obedient. It closes the door of the Constitution to a
person whose liberty is at stake and whose need for due
process of law is most acute. In short, it condemns a man
without a fair hearing.
There is something basically wrong and unjust about a
juridical system that sanctions the imprisonment of a man
without ever according him the opportunity to claim that
the charge made against him is illegal. I am not yet willing to conclude that we have such a system in this nation.
Every fiber of the Constitution and every legal principle of
justice and fairness indicate otherwise. The reports are
filled with decisions affirming the right to a fair and full
hearing, the opportunity to present every possible defense
to a criminal charge and the chance at some point to challenge an administrative order before punishment. Those
rudimentary concepts are ingrained in our legal framework and stand ready for use whenever life or liberty is in
peril. The need for their application in this instance
seems beyond dispute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLUDGE,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

We must be cognizant of the fact that we are dealing
here with a legislative measure born of the cataclysm of
war, which necessitates many temporary restrictions on
personal liberty and freedom. But the war power is not
a blank check to be used in blind disregard of all the individual rights which we have struggled so long to recognize and preserve. It must be used with discretion and
with a sense of proportionate values. In this instance it
seems highly improbable that the war effort necessitates
the destruction of the right of a person charged with a
crime to obtain a complete review and consideration of
his defense. As long as courts are open and functioning,
judicial review is not expen dble.
All of the mobilization and all of the war effort will have
been.in vain if, when all is finished, we discover that in
the process we have destroyed the very freedoms for which
we fought. These cases represent a small but significant
reflection of that fact. The reversal of the judgments
below is therefore in line with the highest traditions of the
Court.
M . JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I join in the result in each case and in the Court's
opinion for the reasons it sets forth. A further reason
would force me to this result. In my judgment a contrary
construction would invalidate the statute. I have no
doubt that Congress could make administrative or executive action final in such matters as these in the sense of
excluding all judicial review, excepting only what may be
required by the Constitution in the absence of suspension
of the writ of habeas corpus.1 Cf. Ex parte McCardle, 6
1Under the Selective Draft Act of 1917, the civil courts were not
called upon to enforce induction orders by criminal proceedings; for
the receipt of such an order automatically subjected a draftee to military law and for disobedience thereof he was triable by a court-martial for desertion. See United States v. McIntyre, 4 F. 2d 823; Billings
v. Truesdell, 321 U. S. 542, 545-546; cf. the Selective Draft Law Cases,
245 U. S. 366.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

RUTLEDGU,

J., concurring.

Wall. 318; Lockerty v. Phillips, 319 U. S. 182; Ng Fung
Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276.
But as I do not think Congress can make it a crime punishable by the federal judicial power to violate an administrative order without affording an adequate opportunity
to show its constitutional invalidity, cf. Yakus v. United
States, 321 U. S. 414, 460, dissenting opinion,' so even
more do I not think Congress can make criminal the disobedience to such an order allowing no opportunity
whatever for showing its unconstitutionality. It is one
thing to deny jurisdiction of the courts altogether, save in
so far as the Constitution of its own force may preserve
the jurisdiction. It is altogether different to confer jurisdiction for enforcement purposes, but in doing so to cut off
all right of defense on constitutional grounds.
To sustain such a view not only would have the courts
marching up the hill in the criminal case and down again
in habeas corpus.' It would make the judicial function a
rubber stamp in criminal cases for administrative or ex2And see the authorities cited in the Court's opinion, 321 U. S. at
433, 435. Apart from the question of the validity of splitting a criminal trial into civil and highly attenuated criminal parts, the issue in
the Yakus case related to the adequacy of the opportunity allowed for
challenging the order's validity in the Emergency Court of Appeals.
The ruling did not comprehend a situation where no opportunity is
afforded prior to or during the trial.
8It is not necessary in these cases to determine whether Congress
could confine the scope of review in the criminal cause, on constitutional grounds, to those which might be asserted in habeas corpus after
conviction. The very fact that ordinarily the permissible sope of
such objections in the latter type of proceeding is considerably more
restricted than in the former is additional reason for not accepting the
Government's view that Congress intended to allow review by habeas
corpus but not by defense in the criminal trial.
That view, of course, rejects the idea that "final" in the statute
"means final," that is, beyond judicial reach in any manner, as it likewise implicitly but necessarily denies that "within the jurisdiction"of the local boards-is wholly geographical.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRAxKFURTER,

J.q concurring.

327 U. S.

ecutive action. And it would close the trap which, in
Billings v. Truesdell, 321 U. S. 542, 558, we said would be
set if Falbo v. UnitedStates, 320 U. S. 549, were construed
to permit what it is now sought to have done to the
petitioners.
concurring in result.
Although Congress, in 1940, and by reenactment since,
provided that when a draft board determines whether a
registrant is entitled to exemption or deferment the board's
decision is "final," the Court now concludes that such a
decision is not final but may be reviewed when the registrant is tried before a jury for wilful disobedience of a
board's order. Not only is such a result opposed to the
expressed will of Congress. It runs counter to the achievement of the great object avowed by Congress in enacting
this legislation; it contradicts the settled practice under
the Selective Service Act throughout the war years, recognized as such by authoritative Congressional opinion; it
reverses all the circuit courts of appeals before whom the
matter has come, constituting an impressive body of
decisions and expressing the views of more than forty
judges.
The case is this. Estep was a Jehovah's Witness. By
virtue of that fact he claimed the protection of § 5 (d) of
the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (54 Stat.
885, 888; 50 U. S. C. App. § 305 (d)), which exempts
from service "Regular or duly ordained ministers of reMR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

ligion . . ." His local board ruled against this claim and

classified Estep as I-A, that is, available for military service, and ordered him to report for induction. He reported
and was accepted by the Navy but refused to submit to
induction. See Billings v. Truesdell, 321 U. S. 542. This
prosecution was then commenced under § 11 of the Act
(54 Stat. 885, 894; 50 U. S. C. App. § 311). That section
makes it an offense for any person wilfully to disobey

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

"any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or regulations made or directions given thereunder . . ." Concededly Estep failed to carry out the order of the board to
submit to induction. Estep sought to defend disobedience
on the ground that the local board had improperly denied
his claim of exemption from service in that they refused
to classify him as a "regular or duly ordained minister
of religion . . ." He also offered in defense proof of
alleged misconduct by the board bearing on his right of
appeal from the board's decision. Disallowance of these
defenses by the district court, which after conviction were
sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals, presents two
issues for our consideration: I. Is the decision of a local
board denying a claim of exemption subject to reconsideration in a criminal prosecution for knowingly failing to
discharge the duties required by the Act as a result of such
classification? II. Is action by the local board whereby
a registrant is cut off from the opportunities of a review
within the Selective Service process as authorized by the
Act available as a defense in such prosecution for disobedience of the local board's order? These are questions of
such moment in the enforcement of the Selective Service
Act as to call for an adequate statement of the reasons that
impel disagreement with the major conclusion of the
Court.
I.
Did Congress place within the Selective Service System
the authority for determining who shall and who shall not
serve in the armed services, who shall and who shall not
enjoy the exemptions and deferments by which Congress
has qualified the duty of all to serve? Or, did it leave
such determination for reconsideration in trials before
juries of persons charged with wilful disobedience of duties
defined by the Act? This is the crucial issue in the case
and touches the very nerve-center of the Selective Service
Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

One would suppose that Congress expressed its will with
the utmost clarity, precluding the need of labored argumentation as to its purpose. Section 10 (a) (2) gives
the answer.
"Such local boards, under rules and regulations prescribed by the President, shall have power within
their respective jurisdictions to hear and determine,
subject to the right of appeal to the appeal boards
herein authorized, all questions or claims with respect
to inclusion for, or exemption or deferment from,
training and service under this Act of all individuals
within the jurisdiction of such local boards. The decisions of such local boards shall be final except where
an appeal is authorized in accordance with such rules
and regulations as the President may prescribe." 54
Stat. 885,893; 50 U. S. C. App. § 310 (a) (2).
These words can only mean what they appear to mean if
they are read as ordinary words should be read. Ordinary
words should be read with their common, everyday meaning when they serve as directions for ordinary people. If
legislation was ever designed to define the rights and duties
of the vast body of ordinary people, it is the Selective Service Act. One need not italicize "final" to make final mean
final, when nowhere in the Act is there any derogation of
this Congressional command of finality to "the decisions
of such local boards," subject only to reviewability within
the Selective Service System.
But if one goes beyond the meaning that the text spontaneously yields, all other relevant considerations only
confirm what the text expresses. To allow judicial review
of a board's decision on classification is not to respect the
context of purpose into which a specific provision of a law
is properly placed. To do so disregards that purpose.
And Congress did not rely on the public understanding of
the purpose that moved it in passing the Selective Service
Act, as well it might have, considering that the Act was
passed in September, 1940. It was explicit: "the Con-

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

FRAxNxPmm_, J., concurring.

gress hereby declares that it is imperative to increase and
train the personnel of' the armed forces of the United
States." § 1 (a), 54 Stat. 885; 50 U. S. C. App. § 301 (a).
There cannot have been many instances in our national
life when Congress stamped its legislation as "imperative."
And history has amply underscored the desperate urgency.
Congress deemed it imperative to secure a vast citizen
army with the utmost expedition. It did so with due regard for the individual interests by giving ample opportunities, within the elaborate system which it established,
for supervision of the decisions of the multitudinous draft
boards on the selection of individuals for service. As to
such legislation, even were the language not explicit, every
provision of the Act should be construed to promote fulfillment of the imperative need which inspired it. Surely
it would hamper the aim of Congress to subject the decisions of the selective process in determining who is amenable to service to reconsideration by the cumbersome
process of trial by jury, admirably suited as that is for the
familiar controversies when the nation's life is not at stake.
To avoid such a palpable inroad upon Congressional purpose, we need not draw on implications. We must merely
resist unwarranted implications that sterilize what Congress has expressly required.
In construing the Act, this Court has heretofore applied
the reasons which led Congress to rely wholly on the
Selective Service System in determining the rights of
individuals. This is what we said two years ago:
"To meet the need which it felt for mobilizing national manpower in the shortest practicable period,
Congress established a machinery which it deemed
efficient for inducting great numbers of men into the
armed forces. Careful provision was made for fair
administration of the Act's policies within the framework of the selective service process."
We so ruled in Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S.549, 554.
That was a case in which we held that a challenge to a

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

local board's classification cannot be raised upon a trial
like the present for violation of the Court's order, where
the registrant disobeys the order before he is accepted for
national service. But the Congress made the decisions of
the board "final" without regard to the stage at which
the registrant disobeys it. The command of Congress
makes the decision of the board no less final after the registrant has submitted to the pre-induction examination than
before such submission. The finality of the board is
neither diminished, nor the authority of the courts to review such decision enlarged, because a registrant flouts the
Selective Service process at an early or at a late stage.
The language of the statute is unqualified and all-inclusive: "The decisions of such local boards shall be final except where an appeal is authorized in accordance with such
rules and regulations as the President may prescribe."
Such has been the construction of more than forty
judges in the circuit courts of appeals.1 The question
raised by the facts of this case has come before the Circuit
Courts of Appeals for the First, the Second, the Third, the
Fourth, the Fifth, the Sixth, the Seventh and the Eighth
'This is a list of the judges:
First Circuit: Mahoney, Woodbury, Peters.
Second Circuit: Learned Hand, Swan, Augustus N. Hand, Chase,
Clark, Frank, Simons, Hutcheson (the last two sitting as designated
judges).
Third Circuit: Jones, Maris, Goodrich, McLaughlin, Parker (the
last sitting as a designated judge).
Fourth Circuit: Parker, Soper, Dobie, Northcott.

Fifth Circuit: Sibley, Hutcheson, Holmes, McCord, Waller, Lee,
Strum.
Sixth Circuit: Hicks, Simons, Hamilton, Martin.
Seventh Circuit: Evans, Sparks, Major, Kerner, Minton, Lindley,
Briggle.
Eighth Circuit: Sanborn, Woodrough, Thomas, Johnsen, Riddick.
Since Falbo, the only contrary views have been expressed by
Judges Biggs and Leahy in the court below in No. 292.

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

Circuits. All, eight of them, have ruled that judicial review of a draft board classification is not available, in a
criminal prosecution, even though the registrant has submitted to the pre-induction physical examination. Sirski
v. United States, 145 F. 2d 749 (C. C. A. 1st, 1944) ; United
States v. Flakowicz, 146 F. 2d 874 (C. C. A. 2d, 1945);
United States v. Estep, 150 F. 2d 768 (C. C. A. 3d, 1945);
Smith v. United States, 148 F. 2d 288 (C. C. A. 4th, 1945);
Koch v. UnitedStates, 150 F. 2d 762 (C. C. A. 4th, 1945);
Fletcher v. United States, 129 F. 2d 262 (C. C. A. 5th,
1942); Klopp v. United States, 148 F. 2d 659 (C. C. A. 6th,
1945); United States v. Rinko, 147 F. 2d 1 (C. C. A. 7th,
1945); Gibson v. United States, 149 F. 2d 751 (C. C. A.
8th, 1945).'

Such was the impact of this Court's reason-

ing in the Falbo case that it greatly influenced the ruling
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the finality -of local
board orders and practically silenced whatever doubts may
theretofore have been held by a few of the judges.
That it was during the crucial war years that the Act
was thus interpreted and enforced, whereby the raising
of the armed forces was saved from obstruction by not
subjecting the Selective Process to judicial review when
Congress forbade it, is of course no reason for misconstru2 See, also, United States v. Kauten, 133 F. 2d 703 (C. C. A. 2d,
1943); United States v. Nelson, 143 F. 2d 584 (C. C. A. 2d, 1944);
United States v. Grieme, 128 F. 2d 811 (C. C. A. 3d, 1942); United
States v. Bowles, 131 F. 2d 818 (C. C. A. 3d, 1942), aff'd on other
grounds, 319 U. S. 33; Goodrich v. United States, 146 F. 2d 265 (C.
C. A. 5th, 194N; United States v. Mroz, 136 F. 2d 221 (C. C. A. 7th,
1943); United States v. Messersmith, 138 F. 2d 599 (C. C. A. 7th,
1943); United States v. Daily, 139 F. 2d 7 (C. C. A. 7th, 1943);
United States v. Sauler, 139 F. 2d 173 (C. C. A. 7th, 1944); United
States v. Van Den Berg, 139 F. 2d 654 (C. C. A. 7th, 1944); United
States v. Fratrick, 140 F. 2d 5 (C. C. A. 7th, 1944); United States v.
Baxter, 141 F. 2d 359 (C. C. A. 7th, 1944); United States v. Domres,
142 F. 2d 477 (C. C. A. 7th, 1944); Bronemann v. United States, 138
F. 2d 333 (C. C. A. 8th, 1943); Van Bibber v. United States, 151 F.
2d 444 (C. C. A. 8th, 1945).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

ing it now and relaxing the mode of administration which
Congress deemed necessary for its effectiveness.
Congress not only so willed but those especially entrusted with formulating this legislation were fully aware
of the judicial consequences of what it prescribed. This
is shown by an authoritative report of the House Committee on Military Affairs when that Committee, the originator of the Act, was considering amendments on renewal
of the Act. In its report in January, 1945, more than
four years after the Act had been in operation, the Committee thus stated with accuracy and acquiescence the
unanimity of judicial decisions in support of the respect
by the judiciary of finality of the decisions of the draft
board:
"Under the act as it is now written, registrants who
are ordered to submit to induction into the armed
forces may not refuse and defend such refusals in a
criminal prosecution on the ground that their classifications were not given fair consideration by their
boards. In order to obtain a judicial determination
of such issues such registrants must first submit to
induction and raise the issue by habeas corpus." H.
R. Rep. No. 36, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. (1945) 4-5.
Congress wanted men to get into the army, not to litigate about getting in. And so it legislated on the assumption that its carefully devised scheme for determining within the Selective Service System, who was under
duty to serve in the army would go awry too seldom to
justify allowance of review by the courts. If challenges
to such determination by the Selective Service System
were found baseless, as they were so found as a matter of
experience in all but a negligible number of instances, the
men having submitted to induction would be in the army,
available as such, and not in prison for disobedience. Accordingly, Congress legislated to discourage obstruction
and delay through dilatory court proceedings that would

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

have been inevitable if judicial review of classification had
been afforded during the war years.
The Court finds support for its reading that "final" does
not mean final in the fact that not even at a time of our
greatest national emergency was the writ of habeas corpus
withdrawn as the ultimate safeguard of personal liberty.
See U. S. Constitution, Art. I, § 9, cl. 2; 1 Stat. 81, as
amended, 28 U. S. C. § 451. But this general right to
question the entire want of a legal foundation for a restraint is no measure of the issues that Congress left open
for determination in a jury trial for disobedience of orders
of the local draft boards made "final" by § 10 (a) (2).
Still less can it justify nullification of an explicit direction by Congress that such orders shall finally be determined within the framework of the Selective Service System. The issues in a habeascorpus proceeding are quickly
joined, strictly limited and swiftly disposed of by a single
judge. See 14 Stat. 385; 28 U. S. C. § 465. Habeas corpus proceedings are freed from the cumbersomeness which
is a proper price to pay for the countervailing advantages
of jury trials in appropriate situations. Habeas corpus
"comes in from the outside," after regular proceedings
formally defined by law have ended, "not in subordination
to the proceedings, and although every form may have
been preserved opens the inquiry whether they have been
more than an empty shell." Holmes, J., dissenting in
Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 346. Habeas corpus,
after conviction, could not, of course, serve as a revisory
process of the determination of classification which Congress lodged with finality in the draft boards. It could
only be used in those hardly conceivable situations in
which the proceedings before the draft board were a mere
sham, "nothing but an empty form." Ibid. The availability in such a remote contingency of habeas corpus even
after conviction is certainly no reason for deflecting and
confusing a trial for the simple issue defined by § 11,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

namely, whether there was a wilful disregard of an order
made by the Selective Service System, a system ranging
from the local board to the President. It is one thing for
the writ of habeas corpus to be available even though an
administrative action may otherwise be "final." See e. g.,
Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276. It is quite another to
interpolate judicial review and thereby to disrupt a whole
scheme of legislation under which millions of orders need
promptly to be made and promptly to be respected and
were therefore endowed with finality when sanctions for
disobedience are sought.
Another ground for denying the evident purpose of
Congress and disregarding the terms in which it expressed
that purpose, is the suggestion that the validity of a classification goes to the "jurisdiction of the board" to issue an
order to report for induction. But Congress did not say
that "the decision of such local boards when properly acting under their authority shall be final." It said simply
and unqualifiedly "The decisions of such local boards shall
be final . . ." To be sure local boards are given power
to act "within their respective jurisdictions." But all
agencies upon which Congress confers authority have such
authority impliedly only "within their respective jurisdictions." If that inherent limitation opened the door to
review of their action in every enforcement proceeding
despite provisions for finality, a provision of finality is
meaningless.
This argument revives, if indeed it does not multiply,
all the casuistic difficulties spawned by the doctrine of
"jurisdictional fact." In view of the criticism which that
doctrine, as sponsored by Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22,
brought forth and of the attritions of that case through
later decisions, one had supposed that the doctrine had
earned a deserved repose. In withholding judicial review
in the situations with which we are concerned, Congress
was acting upon the conviction that it was dealing with

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

matters which were more fittingly lodged in the exclusive
discretion of the Selective Service System. Even in cases
of far less exigency, Congress has chosen to act on such a
view. See, e.-g., Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402; FinalReport of the Attorney General'sCommittee on Administrative Procedure (1941) 86. But the short answer to any
claim of reviewability drawn from the confinement of the
local boards to action "within their respective jurisdictions" is that Congress was concerned with geography and
not with law. Throughout this Act, the term "jurisdiction" has this geographic connotation. Is it reasonable
to believe that Congress, bent on creating a vast armed
force as quickly as possible, would in effect authorize every
order of the Selective Service System to be reconsidered
upon trials for disregard of such orders? The Act does
not differentiate between the power of the board to allow exemptions and its power to grant deferments. The
boards were invested with final authority to determine
such matters subject only to such review as the Act authorizes. When Congress talked about a. board acting
within its jurisdiction it meant that a registrant had submitted his papers to a board either because he resided
within its area or for some other relevant reason had registered with it.
For five years the circuit courts of appeals have construed § 10 (a) (2) to mean that Congress established a
system for organizing a vast citizen's army, the selection
of which shall be in civilian boards with such control over
them as the President may formulate. Designed obstruction of this means of meeting the great emergency was
made an offense. That the Congress had the Constitutional power to do so needs no argument at this late date.
See Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; Hirabayashi
v United States, 320 U. S. 81, 93. And yet the Court
today holds that eight circuit courts of appeals were wrong
in reading the language of Congress: as Congress wrote it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

even though in doing so these courts were respectful of the
considerations that moved Congress to write the Act as it
did in order to raise that army. If this be so, not only
were they wrong, but probably hundreds of convictions for
disobedience of local board orders based on such regard for
what Congress had written, were invalid.
II.
Since Congress has made final the decision of a local
board on a claim of exemption, its decision as to exemption
cannot be reopened upon a trial for disobedience of the
board's order. But Congress also authorized an appeal
from the local board to an appeal board and ultimately
to the President. Congress has not given to the local
board authority to decide when such statutory rights of
appeal may be availed of, nor to make "final" unwarranted
action by a board whereby such appeal is frustrated. Cf.
Tung v. United States, 142 F. 2d 919 (C. C. A. 1st, 1944).
Accordingly, if a registrant does not obey an order of induction because the board has cut off the opportunity
which the statute gives him to appeal to higher authority,
his obligation of obedience has not yet matured. Therefore he has not failed to discharge his obligation under the
Act. The duty to obey is not merely a duty to obey an
order of the draft board, but to obey such an order after
it is no longer subject to review within the Selective Service System. "The decisions of such local boards shall be
final except where an appeal is authorized in accordance
with such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe." Estep made the claim that he was effectively
denied the right to appeal in addition to his inadmissible
defense that the local board classified him improperly.
He offered to prove that for all practical purposes the local
board frustrated his right to have his case go to the appeal
board, in violation of the board's duty under the Act and
the Regulations. Estep should have been allowed to make

ESTEP v. UNITED STATES.
114

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

proof of this claim by appropriate motion to be disposed
of by the court. As in situations of comparable legal significance, a trial court may, of course, leave controverted
issues of fact to the jury.
Another issue is presented by the petitioner in No. 66.
The indictment alleges a failure to report for induction.
.While. the petitioner did not report at the local board as
he was ordered to do, he was forcibly taken to the induction center and went through the pre-induction physical
examination but subsequently refused to submit to induction. An order to report for induction, as we said in
Billings v. Truesdell, "includes a command to submit to
induction." 321 U. S., at 557; United States v. Collura,
139 F. 2d 345 (C. C. A. 2d, 1943). There is, however, basis
for the petitioner's contention that the case was tried and
submitted to the jury on the theory that he failed to show
up at his local board. He substantially complied with
that request by being at the induction center for examination. The trial court's charge is at best ambiguous.
The court more than once apparently charged not that he
did not submit to induction, but that he failed to appear
voluntarily at the induction points. "A conviction ought
not to rest on an equivocal direction to the jury on a basic
issue." Bollenbach v. United States, 326 U. S. 607. On
this ground the conviction is properly reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON, with whom MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
STONE concurs, dissenting.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and I think that the judgment of
conviction in these cases should be affirmed for reasons
stated in Part I of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion.
We think that under § 10 (a) (2) of the Selective Service Act, rightly construed, the registrant is required, on
pain of criminal penalties, to obey the local board's order
to report for induction into the armed forces, even though
the board's order or the action of the appeal board on

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

which it is based, is erroneous.

327 U. S.

"In order to obtain a ju-

dicial determination of such issues such registrants must
first submit to induction and raise the issue by habeas
corpus." H. Rep. No. 36, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. (1945) 5.

It follows that if the registrant is indicted for disobedience
of the board's order he cannot defend on the ground that
the draft procedure has not been complied with or, if convicted, secure his release on that ground by resort to habeas
corpus. The result is that such relief is open to him only
if he obeys the order and submits to induction, when he is
free to seek habeas corpus.

We do not find in the record of either case sufficient basis
for reversal thereof on the grounds suggested in Part II
of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion.

HANNEGAN, POSTMASTER GENERAL, v.
ESQUIRE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 399.

Argued January 11, 1946.-Decided February 4, 1946.

1. Section 14 of the Classification Act of 1879 provides that, in order
to be admitted as second-class mail, a publication "must be originated and published for the dissemination of information of a public
character, or devoted to literature, the sciences, arts . . ." Held
that, under this provision, the Postmaster General is without power
to prescribe standards for the literature or the art which a mailable
periodical (not obscene) disseminates, or to determine* whether
the contents of the periodical meet some standard of the public
good or welfare. Pp. 148, 158.
2. A purpose on the part of Congress to grant the Postmaster General
a power of censorship-a power so abhorrent to our traditions-is not lightly to be inferred. P. 151.
3. When read in the context of the postal laws of which it is an integral part, the provisions of § 14 must be taken as establishing
standards which relate to the format of the publication and to the
nature of its contents, but not to their quality, worth, or value.
P. 152.

