AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. SAMPSELL.

269

Counsel for Parties.

AMERICAN SURETY CO. OF NEW YORK v.
SAMPSELL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 142. Argued January 28, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. A bankruptcy court has equitable power to subordinate the claim
of a surety for subrogation and indemnity for payments under
a statutory construction bond to the claims of laborers and materialmen for whose benefit the bond was executed but who failed
to file lien claims or notify the surety of their unpaid claims within
the time required by the bond and the applicable state statute.
P. 271.
2. Federal bankruptcy law, not state law, governs the distribution
of a bankrupt's assets to his creditors. Prudence Realization Corp.
v. Geist, 316 U. S. 89. P. 272.
3. Controlling equitable principles forbid a surety from sharing
a bankrupt's assets on equal terms with creditors who are members
of the class its bond was given to protect. American Surety Co.
v. Westinghouse Electric Co., 296 U. S. 133. P. 272.
4. Failure to give the notice required by state law does not deprive
materialmen and laborers of the protection of this rule. P. 273.
148 F. 2d 986, affirmed.

A bankruptcy court subordinated the claim of a surety
for subrogation and indemnity for amounts paid under
a statutory construction bond to the claims of laborers
and materialmen who had not filed liens or notified the
surety of their unpaid claims within the time specified by
the bond and the applicable state statute. 53 F. Supp.
131. The circuit court of appeals affirmed. 148 F. 2d
986. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 699.
Affirmed, p. 274.
Homer Cummings argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Carl McFarland and Gordon
F. Hampton.

Martin Gendel argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was Thomas S. Tobin.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case raises questions concerning the equitable
power of a federal bankruptcy court to subordinate claims
of some creditors to those of others. The creditors are
a surety entitled to subrogation for payments upon its
surety bond and laborers and materialmen for whose benefit the bond was executed.
Stratton, now in bankruptcy, made certain alterations
in factory buildings located in California. In connection
with this project Stratton as principal, and the petitioner,
American Surety Company of New York, as surety, executed a joint statutory bond for $39,500, by which they
bound themselves to pay all persons furnishing materials
for, or performing work on, the job. The bond strictly
conformed in all respects with requirements of the California law governing laborers' and materialmen's liens
and was filed and recorded as provided by § 1183 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure. Parts of the bond's
language incorporated portions of §§ 1183 and 1187 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure which provide that
''no action" on a recorded bond may be maintained unless
within a specified statutory period a mechanic's lien claim
shall have been filed or the surety shall have been given
notice of the unpaid claim.
Because of financial difficulties Stratton was unable to
pay all the laborers and materialmen. Some of them,
with claims aggregating $6,724.78, filed lien claims and
gave notice within the statutory period and the surety
paid their claims in full. Others failed to file claims or
give the required notice and the surety did not pay them.
Stratton was later adjudged a bankrupt. The petitioner surety company filed a claim for the money it had
been compelled to expend in payment of the materialmen
and laborers who had given the statutory notice. Its
claim rested on an agreement by Stratton to indemnify it
and on the equitable doctrine of subrogation. Three of

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. SAMPSELL.
269

271

Opinion of the Court.

the materialmen and laborers who had failed to give notice
also filed claims totalling $1,336.11 owed them for materials furnished and work performed. The referee allowed
all of these claims including that of the surety company
as general claims in bankruptcy. Upon motion of the
respondent trustee, the referee subordinated the petitioner's claim to that of the unpaid laborers and materialmen, holding that as long as there are "creditors of the
class for whose benefit the original surety bond was written . . . the Surety Company cannot participate in dividends from the estate until these creditors have been paid
in full." Thus under the order the three unpaid laborers
and materialmen were to receive in addition to dividends
on their own claims a pro-rata share of dividends otherwise due the petitioner until they had been paid in full
or the petitioner's dividend had been exhausted. The district court sustained the referee's order, 53 F. Supp. 131,
and the circuit court of appeals affirmed, 148 F. 2d 986.
We granted certiorari because of petitioner's contention
that the order subordinating its claims failed to take into
consideration contractual rights of the surety under state
law.
Petitioner argues that because the state statute incorporated into the bond requires laborers and materialmen
either to file a lien claim or notify the surety within a
specified period after completion of the job, the referee
erred in subordinating the surety's claim to those of the
laborers and materialmen who had not complied with the
statutory notice provision. The rights of those creditors,
it is argued, had never, under California law, been more
than inchoate, and even as such had been completely
extinguished prior to the bankruptcy proceedings because
of a failure to give the statutory notice. Consequently,
the petitioner urges, these claims ought not to be preferred in a federal bankruptcy proceeding. We think this
contention is without merit and that the order of the
referee was correct.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

We recently had occasion to reiterate that federal bankruptcy law, not state law, governs the distribution of a
bankrupt's assets to his creditors. Prudence Realization
Corp. v. Geist, 316 U. S. 89, 95. See also Pepper v. Litton,
308 U. S. 295, 303-306; Prudence Realization Corp. v.
Ferris, 323 U. S. 650, 653. True, we stated in both Prudence opinions that the federal law governing distribution
of a bankrupt's estate should be applied with "appropriate
regard for rights acquired under rules of state law . . ."
But the extent to which state law is to be so considered
is in the last analysis a matter of federal law. Here the
referee's subordination of the surety company's claim did
not only follow the well-established rule under federal
bankruptcy law, but also achieved a result in complete
harmony with California's aim, expressed by both its Constitution 1 and statutes, of providing materialmen's and
workers' claims with extraordinary security.
The established federal rule of distribution in a situation such as the one before us was clearly set forth in
American Surety Co. v. Westinghouse Electric Co., 296
U. S. 133. In that case the surety company had paid out
to various creditors the full amount of the statutory surety
bond and filed a claim in the bankruptcy proceeding based
on those payments. The surety company argued that
since its full liability had been extinguished, it should be
permitted to share ratably with all the bankrupt's general
creditors. That contention was rejected. The Court
pointed out that while liability of the surety company had
ended, controlling equitable principles forbade the surety
1 Article XX, § 15, of the Constitution of the State of California is
as follows:
"Mechanics, materialmen, artisans, and laborers of every class,
shall have a lien upon the property upon which they have bestowed
labor or furnished material for the value of such labor done and material furnished; and the Legislature shall provide, by law, for the
speedy and efficient enforcement of such liens."

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. SAMPSELL.
269

273

Opinion of the Court.

from sharing the bankrupt's assets on equal terms with
any creditors who were members of the class its bond had
been given to protect. The rule stated by the Court was
that where insolvency supervenes, a surety's claim is postponed until payments in full are made to all "claimants
who are members of the class of creditors covered by the
bond."
The petitioner attempts to distinguish this case by arguing that the materialmen and workers to whose claims
its claim has been subordinated were not "covered by the
bond." This contention rests on the claim that according
to the construction of the applicable state statutes by the
California courts the bond does not protect materialmen
and workers who, as the ones here involved, have not complied with statutory filing and notice provisions. While
this claim as to California law is denied by the respondent,
we need not resolve the dispute. For even if petitioner's
claim as to California law is correct, the creditors in the
Westinghouse case were certainly no more protected by
that bond after the surety had paid out the full amount,
than the materialmen and laborers are said to be protected here after the time for notifying the surety had
expired. The phrase "covered by the bond" as used in
the Westinghouse case did not have the meaning petitioner ascribes to it but had reference rather to the class
of creditors for whose benefit the statutory bond was executed. All materialmen and laborers who contributed to
Stratton's job clearly come within that class. The basic
reason for the rule announced in the Westinghouse case
applies with equal force here. The bond was intended
to protect materialmen and laborers who worked on the
job so that they would not have to bear the risk of Stratton's insolvency. But for his insolvency and bankruptcy
these laborers and materialmen would have been able to
recover from him the money due them, no matter what
their rights against the surety might have been. Conse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

quently the surety should not, by claiming under subrogation or indemnity for money paid to some of the creditors for whose benefit the bond was intended, be allowed
to reduce the share of the bankrupt's assets due to other
creditors whom the bond also was intended to protect
from insolvency. For this would tend to defeat the very
purpose for which the bond was given and therefore cannot be permitted under the equitable principles governing distribution of a bankrupt's assets. Prudence Realization Corp. v. Geist, supra, at p. 96.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ASHCRAFT ET AL. V. TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 381.

Argued February 6, 7, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. On retrial of petitioner, whose conviction in a criminal case in
a state court had been reversed by this Court on the ground that
it had been obtained by use of a coerced confession, Asheraft v.
Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, the jury was permitted to hear testimony
narrating everything (except the confession) that took place during the inquisition at which the confession was obtained. This
resulted in another conviction. Held: There was no relevant distinction between the use of this evidence and the use of the confession; and the conviction is reversed as being contrary to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 278.
2. In oral argument before this Court in the earlier proceeding, the
State's attorney admitted that the confession was the only evidence
against petitioner and this was mentioned in the opinion of this
Court, which reversed the conviction and remanded the cause to
the state supreme court for proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this Court. Held: The mandate of this Court did not
forbid a new trial of petitioner. P. 279, n. 1.
3. A state supreme court's construction of its own mandate is final.
P. 279, n. 1.
Reversed.

