220

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 86.

Argued December 10, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

In 1924 a New York court entered an interlocutory decree divorcing respondent from petitioner. The decree was modified in 1926
to provide that petitioner should pay to respondent alimony in
a specified amount annually. Both parties were then residents
of New York, and the proceedings were contested. In 1936 the
court, also in contested proceedings, entered an order declaring
that there was due from petitioner to respondent, for the period
ending October 25, 1935, alimony arrears and accrued interest in
a specified amount. In 1938, without notice to the petitioner, a
judgment was by order of the court docketed in favor of the respondent against petitioner, and execution ordered to issue thereon,
in an amount embracing what was due upon the 1936 order plus
alimony arrears and interest from October 25; 1935, to the date
of the 1938 order. Respondent sued petitioner in the district
court of the District of Columbia upon the 1938 judgment, and
was awarded summary judgment in the amount of the 1938 judgment plus interest. Held:
1. To the extent that it adjudged as due and owing arrears of
alimony accrued since October 25, 1935, the 1938 judgment was
wanting in procedural due process and unenforceable. Pp. 223, 233.
(a) Because of the want of notice to petitioner of the proceeding to docket judgment against him for accrued alimony, and
to the extent that petitioner was thus deprived of an opportunity
which under the law of New York was open to him to raise defenses
in such a proceeding, there was want of procedural due process
and hence want of that jurisdiction over the person of petitioner
prerequisite to the rendition of a judgment in personam against
him. P. 228.
The law of New York is examined and found to differ significantly from that involved in Sistare v. Sistare, 218 U. S. 1.
P. 233.
(b) It is immaterial whether petitioner at the time of the
1938 proceeding was a domiciled resident of New York, either
within or temporarily without the State, or a resident of some
other jurisdiction. In any event, a judgment in personam direct-

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

221

Syllabus.

ing execution to issue against petitioner, and thus purporting to
cut off all available defenses, could not be rendered on any theory
of the State's power over him, without some form of notice by
personal or substituted service. P. 228.
(c) Although the 1926 decree, in light of the New York
practice, gave petitioner notice at the time of its entry that further
proceedings might be taken to docket in judgment form the obligation to pay installments accruing under the decree, due process
nevertheless required further notice of the time and place of such
further proceedings, inasmuch as they undertook substantially to
affect his rights in ways in which the 1926 decree did not. P. 229.
(d) The assertion for the first time by the 1938 judgment
of power to adjudicate petitioner's liability for accrued alimony
and to direct its enforcement by execution, does not differ in its
nature and constitutional effect from the like assertion of power
to issue execution by any other judgment rendered without notice.
P. 231.
(e) The contention that the 1938 judgment is not a final
adjudication of the defenses which the petitioner might have had,
and that notice was therefore not required, is irreconcilable with
the fact that the judgment authorizes immediate execution thereon.
P. 232.
(f) Even though petitioner could, if he knew of the judgment
before execution is actually levied, move to set the judgment aside,
that could not save the judgment from its due process infirmity,
since it and the New York practice purport to authorize the levy
of execution before petitioner is notified of the proceeding or the
judgment. P. 232.
2. To the extent that the 1938 judgment infringes due process,
it cannot be made the instrument for enforcing in another jurisdiction the rights purportedly adjudicated by it. P. 232.
(a) A judgment obtained in violation of procedural due
process is not entitled to full faith and credit when sued upon in
another jurisdiction. P. 228.
(b) Due process requires that no other jurisdiction shall give
effect, even as a matter of comity, to a judgment elsewhere acquired
without due process. P. 232.
3. To the extent that the 1938 judgment confirmed the 1936
adjudication of the amount of alimony and interest due as of
October 25, 1935, respondent was entitled to maintain suit upon
it. P. 233.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

327 U. S.

(a) The 1936 order was a final adjudication between the
parties that arrears of alimony were then due and owing by petitioner to respondent in the specified amount. P. 233.
(b) Existence of a power to modify or revoke installments of
alimony already accrued is not lightly to be implied. P. 233.
(c) The 1938 judgment, so far as it confirmed the 1936 order
by which petitioner was already bound, impaired no rights of
petitioner and foreclosed no defense which he had not had opportunity to offer. P. 233.
(d) Due process does not require that notice be given before
confirmation of rights theretofore established in a proceeding of
which adequate notice was given. Pp. 233-234.
(e) Upon remand of the cause, respondent will be taken as
having established the amount of alimony accrued to October 25,
1935, remaining due and unpaid as of February 25, 1936, subject
to any subsequent defense going to the discharge of the obligation
so established, which petitioner should be permitted to raise, if
any he has. P. 234.
4. Upon remand the district court will be free to consider
whether' respondent, upon issues appropriately framed in conformity to the summary judgment procedure, or by amended
pleadings, may recover on the basis of the 1926 decree arrears
of alimony accruing since October 25, 1935. P. 235.
5. Petitioner's claim that the judgment of the New York court
was procured or affected by fraud, and that parts of his answer and
response to the motion for summary judgment were improperly
stricken by the district court, is unsupported. P. 236.
148 F. 2d 17, reversed.

In a suit in the District of Columbia to enforce a New
York decree for alimony, the plaintiff was awarded summary judgment. The United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia affirmed. 148 F. 2d 17.
This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 705. Reversed
and remanded, p. 236.
Petitioner argued the cause and filed a brief pro se.
A. M. Goldstein argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in the district court of the District
of Columbia, in which respondent sought to recover the
amount of a judgment which she had secured against petitioner in 1938 in the Supreme Court of New York for
arrears of alimony. The question for decision is the extent
to which due process permits the New York adjudication
to be made the basis for recovery in another jurisdiction.
The record abounds in confusing and irrelevant matter,
but the following facts may be gleaned from the papers
in the New York court proceedings which it contains. On
June 24, 1924, the Supreme Court of the State of New
York entered its interlocutory judgment divorcing respondent from petitioner, which judgment was, in 1926,
modified to provide that petitioner should pay to respondent alimony in the sum of $3,000 annually in equal
monthly installments. Both parties were then residents
of New York, and the divorce action was contested.
Petitioner left New York in 1929, and though he has returned to the jurisdiction intermittently since that time,
the record does not show whether he ever again took up
residence there. Petitioner was a resident of the District
of Columbia at the time this suit was begun.
In 1935 respondent moved in the original divorce proceeding to punish petitioner for contempt for his failure
to pay installments of alimony as directed by the decree
of divorce, and petitioner, in conformity to New York
procedure, made a cross-motion to modify the original
judgment by reducing past due and future installments
of alimony. Thereupon the New York court entered an
order referring to a referee for determination two of the
issues of fact raised by the motions, (a) the amount of
unpaid installments of alimony due from petitioner to
respondent, and (b) petitioner's then ability to pay them.
These questions were litigated by the parties in contested

.OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

hearings before the referee, whose report of January 7,
1936, found the amount then due from petitioner to respondent as arrears of alimony, and that petitioner had
failed to present any credible testimony showing his iuability to pay. The New York supreme court then entered
its order of February 25, 1936, declaring that there was
due from petitioner to respondent for the period ending
October 25, 1935 alimony arrears and accrued interest in
the sum of $18,493.64 Petitioner's appeal from this order
to the Appellate Division of the New York supreme court
was dismissed for want of prosecution.
Some time later, respondent made a further motion in
the supreme court for an order directing the county clerk
to enter as a money judgment the arrears of alimony due
and unpaid under the judgment of divorce. This motion
was granted, and an order was entered February 19, 1938
directing the clerk to docket a judgment in favor of respondent against petitioner in the sum of $25,382.75. As
indicated in the order this amount was made up of the
following items:
Installments of alimony accrued to October 25, 1935, found due by the order
of the supreme court of February 25,
1936 ............................. $18,493.64
Interest on this amount to date of entry
of the 1938 order ..................
2, 589. 11
Installments of alimony due from October 25, 1935, to the date of the 1938
order ............................
3,750.00
Interest on these installments .........
550. 00
$25, 382.75
A judgment that respondent recover this amount from
petitioner and have execution upon it was entered by the
clerk on February 23, 1938. Both the order of February
19, 1938 and the judgment upon it were entered ex parte,
without notice to petitioner, as then seems to have been

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

permitted under § 538 of the New York Civil Practice
Act. Thayer v. Thayer, 145 App. Div. 268, 129 N. Y. S.
1035 (1st Dept.).1 Petitioner, by his answer in the present
suit on this judgment, set up as defenses that the judgment of February 1938 was entered without notice to him,
and was for that reason null and void for want of due
process, and also "because of gross fraud in its incidents,
and in its procurement, and in its making and entry, and
in its monetary contents, and in the amount claimed to
be due and owing under it," and so was not entitled to
any recognition in the District of Columbia.
On motion for summary judgment, supported by pleadings, affidavit and admissions establishing the several
judgments, orders and records of the New York supreme
court to which we have referred, the district court ordered
summary judgment in the sum of $25,382.75, with interest from February 23, 1938. The court of appeals for
the District affirmed without opinion. We granted certiorari, 326 U. S. 705, on a petition which urges the
sufficiency of the defenses raised below.
By Rule 56 (d) of the Rulet of Civil Procedure, the
court, on a motion for summary judgment, is required to
I Since the entry of the 1938 judgment, § 1171-b of the New York
Civil Practice Act has been added by Laws of 1939, Ch. '431, amended,
Laws of 1940, Ch. 226, so as to provide:
"§ 1171-b. Enforcement by execution of judgment or order in
action for divorce, separation or annulment. Where the husband, in
an action for divorce, separation, annulment, or declaration of nullity
of a void marriage, makes default in paying any sum of money as
required by the judgment or order directing the payment thereof,
the court may make an order directing the entry of judgment for
the amount of such arrears, together with ten dollars costs and disbursements. The applicationfor such order shall be upon such notice
to the husband as the court may direct. Such judgment may be enforced by execution or in any other manner provided by law for the
collection of money judgments. The relief herein provided for is in
addition to any and every other remedy to which the wife may be
entitled under the law." (Italics supplied.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ascertain by examination of the pleadings and the evidence
before it what material facts exist without substantial
controversy and what material facts are actually and in
good faith controverted, and thereupon to make an order
specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy, and directing such further proceedings in the
action as are just. For the purposes of the trial it is provided that the facts so specified shall be deemed established and the trial conducted accordingly. In the present
state of the record, and in order that the summary judgment procedure may be properly followed, it becomes
necessary to determine what facts appear without substantial controversy, and in the light of those facts to
direct such further proceedings in the action as are just.
Of controlling significance in this case are the following
uncontroverted facts of record: the judgment or decree
rendered by the New York supreme court in 1926 directing
annual payments of alimony in the sum of $3,000; the
order of the New York supreme court in the same proceeding determining as a result of an active litigation between
the parties that as of February 25, 1936, there was due
and payable from petitioner to respondent arrears of alimony in the sum of $18,493.64, representing installments
accrued to October 25, 1935, with interest to that date,
and that petitioner was not entitled to any reduction in
the amount due; and finally, the judgment of the New
York supreme court of 1938, which incorporated in the
amount adjudged to be due the arrears of alimony with
interest found by the 1936 order to have accrued to
October 25, 1935.
We have examined the New York law, and conclude
that the 1926 New York alimony decree was, under the
New York practice, subject to some power of modification
nunc pro tunc as to alimony accrued but unpaid up to the
time of modification. See New York Civil Practice Act,

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

§ 1170; Laws 1925, Ch. 240.2 Under the local practice,
alimony which has accrued under a decree of divorce -may
not be collected by execution unless and until a judgment
for the amount of alimony accrued but unpaid is docketed
by order of the court which issued the decree. Thayer v.
Thayer, supra;Ostrinv. Posner, 127 Misc. 313, 215'N. Y. S.
259. And upon a motion to docket as a judgment, arrears
of alimony awarded under a prior decree, the husband
may defend on the grounds that the alimony or some part
of it is not due because of the death or remarriage of the
wife, Kirkbride v. Van Note, 275 N. Y. 244, 9 N. E.,2d 852;
or that the obligation has been discharged by payment or
otherwise, Karlinv. Karlin,280 N. Y. 32, 19 N. E. 2d 669;
or that circumstances have so changed as to justify a reduction of alimony already accrued by modification of
the alimony decree, Van Dusen v. Van Dusen, 258 App.
Div. 1020, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 96 (3d Dept.); Cunningham v.
Cunningham, 261 App. Div. 973, 25 N. Y. S. 2d 933, 934
(2d Dept.); Eisinger v. Eisinger, 261 App. Div. 1031, 26
N. Y. S. 2d 22 (3d Dept.).
2 The New York law described in Sistare v. Sistare, 218 U. S. 1,
decided in 1910, differs significantly from the more recent New York
law which governs this case, as will be seen from the authorities cited.
Ch. 240 of the Laws of 1925 amended § 1170 of the Civil Practice Act
so as to provide in part: "Where an action for divorce or separation
is brought by either husband or wife, the court, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed by statute, must give, either in the final judgment,
or by one or more orders, made from time to time before final judgment, such directions as justic6 requires, between the parties, .
where the action is brought by the wife, for the support of the plaintiff.
The court, by order, upon the application of either party to the
action.... after due notice to the other, to be given in such manner
as the court shall prescribe, at any time after final judgment, may
annul, vary or modify such directions, or in case no such direction or
directions shall have beeni made, amend it by inserting such direction

or directions as justice requires .

.

. for the support of the plaintiff

in such final judgment or order or orders. ..

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Concededly the 1938 judgment was entered without
actual notice to or appearance by petitioner, and without
any form of service of process calculated to give him notice
of the proceedings. Compare InternationalShoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U. S. 310, 320-321. Because of the
omission, and to the extent that petitioner was thus deprived of an opportunity to raise defenses otherwise open
to him under the law of New York against the docketing
of judgment for accrued alimony, there was a want of
judicial due process, and hence want of that jurisdiction
over the person of petitioner prerequisite to the rendition
of a judgment in personam against him. McDonald v.
Mabee, 243 U.S. 90; cf. Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437,459.
The only indication in the record as to petitioner's residence at the time of the entry of the 1938 judgment is a
recitation in the judgment itself that he was then a resident
of the District of Columbia. But it is immaterial for
present purposes whether or not petitioner was a domiciled
resident of New York at the time, either within or temporarily without the State, or a resident of some other jurisdiction. It is plain in any case that a judgment in
personam directing execution to issue against petitioner,
and thus purporting to cut off all available defenses, could
not be rendered on any theory of the State's power over
him, without some form of notice by personal or substituted service. Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U. S. 13, 18-20;
Restatement of Conflict of Laws, § 75; and compare
Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U. S. 457. Such notice cannot be
dispensed with even in the case of judgments in rem with
respect to property within the jurisdiction of the court
rendering the judgment. Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398,
409.
A judgment obtained in violation of procedural due
process is not entitled to full faith and credit when sued
upon in another jurisdiction. National Exchange Bank
v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257; Old Wayne Life Assn. v. Mc-

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

Donough, 204 U. S. 8, 23; Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co.,
242 U. S. 394, 401. Moreover, due process requires that
no other jurisdiction shall give effect, even as a matter
of coiaity, to a judgment elsewhere acquired without due
process. Restatement of Judgments, § 11, Comment c.
While it is undoubtedly true that the 1926 decree,
taken with the New York practice on the subject, gave
petitioner notice at the time of its entry that further proceedings might be taken to docket in judgment form the
obligation to pay installments accruing under the decree,
we find in this no ground for saying that due process does
not require further notice of the time and place of such
further proceedings, inasmuch as they undertook substantially to affect his rights in ways in which the 1926 decree
did not.8 By § 1170 of the New York Civil Practice Act,
petitioner was afforded the opportunity to move to modify
the alimony decree nunc pro tunc. The right afforded by
that section is a substantial one, and may, under the law
of New York, be exercised by him, in effect by way of
defense, in addition to the defense of payment, in a proceeding begun by his wife to docket a judgment for accrued alimony. See Van Dusen v. Van Dusen, supra;
Cunninghamv. Cunningham, supra; Eisingerv. Eisinger,
supra. As we read the 1938 judgment, which recited that
the alimony was "due and unpaid," and directed the issuance of execution for its collection, it purported to cut off
any defense of payment or claim under § 1170, which petitioner might have been prompted to assert, and which he
3 We do not share in the apprehension that the cost of providing
such notice as will satisfy due process requirements each time a proceeding is begun to docket a judgment for an accrued installment of
alimony will be incommensurately high. In various statutes New
York has been able to provide for notice by mail, which is reasonably
adapted to provide actual notice and inexpensive in its operation.
New York Civil Practice Act, § 229-b; New York Real Property
Law, § 442-g; New York Vehicle and Traffic Law, §§ 52, 52-a;
see also Durlacher v. Durlacher, 173 Misc. 329, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 643.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

had the right to assert in the very proceeding which culminated in the judgment sued upon.' That right could not
be rendered nugatory by failure to give him notice of that
proceeding.
It is said that we must presume that the New York
practice requires that a judgment for accrued alimony
which has been docketed without notice must, quite apart
from due process requirements, be set aside on the defendant's application showing to the court that he had
a defense to the claim for accrued alimony." From this
it is said to follow that the 1938 judgment did not deprive
petitioner of any right which he previously had, or of any
4 A judgment procured by fraud may be vacated on that ground
in the State of its rendition, and the fraud may perhaps be urged
as a defense against its enforcement elsewhere. But a demonstration
that the alimony has been paid would not necessarily establish that
a judgment for arrears had been fraudulently procured by the wife's
false representations to the court that they had not been paid. There

are many instances in which a finding of payment will have turned
on substantial questions of fact or law upon which a defendant was
entitled to be heard, but as to which it could not be said that his
antagonist had practiced fraud on the court. Moreover, some available defenses other than payment, as for example, change of the
husband's circumstances, are of such nature as to afford no basis for
attacking the judgment as fraudulent.
1 In Thayer v. Thayer, 145 App. Div. 268, 270-271, 129 N. Y. S.
1035, it was said by way of dictum, "If the court is misled and an
installment improperly docketed, the defendant will find no difficulty
in having the mistake corrected." But that case was decided before
the adoption of § 1170 of the New York Civil Practice Act permitting
the modification of any alimony decree nunc pro tunc by reducing the
amount of accrued alimony. See note 2, supra. We cannot assumethat the "mistake" contemplated by that opinion was one not relating
to payment or discharge. Whether under New York practice a judgment for accrued alimony, docketed without notice, could be opened
and the amount of accrued alimony reduced nunc pro tunc, remains
a matter for speculation. In any case, § 1170 itself does not appear to
authorize a motion to set aside a judgment docketed for alimony
accrued under an earlier decree directing payment of installments
of alimony.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

defense which he might have been entitled to make, and
that therefore the judgment is not wanting in due process.
The argument then runs that since such a judgment satisfies due process it is entitled to as much faith and credit
in other jurisdictions as it has in New York. This, it is
suggested, means that the judgment may be made the
basis of suit in another jurisdiction, but subject there to
all those defenses which would be grounds for setting it
aside in New York.
But if want of notice were, without more, a sufficient
ground for setting aside the judgment under the New York
practice, this could hardly be held to amount to anything
more than recognition by New York of the constitutional
precept that a court may not act to give a personal judgment in the absence of notice. If New York, by its practice, recognizes the ineffectiveness of such a judgment, that
could not be made a ground for giving the judgment effect
elsewhere more than any other judgment rendered without
notice. It might as well be said that any judgment which
does not validly cut off defenses because rendered without
due process may be made the basis of suit elsewhere subject to those defenses. To the extent that New York refuses, if it does refuse, to set aside the judgment of 1938
unless there be some affirmative showing that there was
a meritorious substantive defense to its entry, there is an
assertion of power in the court to enter a money judgment
and issue execution upon it without notice. The assertion
for the first time by the 1938 judgment of power to adjudicate petitioner's liability for accrued alimony and to
direct its enforcement by execution, see Thayer v. Thayer,
supra, does not differ in its nature and constitutional
effect from the like assertion of power to issue execution
by any other judgment rendered without notice.
Due process forbids any exercise of judicial power which,
but for the constitutional infirmity, would substantially
affect a defendant's rights. To the suggestion that under

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the presumed New York practice the power asserted by
the judgment does not include the final adjudication of
any of the defenses which petitioner might have had, and
that notice is therefore not required, the answer must be
that the judgment authorizes the immediate issuance of
execution. We are unable to reconcile the direction that
petitioner's property be seized on execution to satisfy an
obligation for the first time found by the judgment to be
"due and unpaid" with the theory that the obligation is,
for constitutional purposes, thus only tentatively adjudicated. There can be no doubt that a levy upon any
property petitioner might have in New York would substantially, and in at least some instances, permanently
affect his rights. We cannot say that this could be done
without notice of the proceeding said to justify the levy.
Even though petitioner could, if he knew of the judgment
before execution is actually levied, move to set the judgment aside, that could not save the judgment from its due
process infirmity, since it and the New York practice purport to authorize the levy of execution before petitioner
is notified of the proceeding or the judgment.
Since by virtue of the due process clause the judgment
is ineffective in New York to adjudicate petitioner's rights
for enforcement purposes, it cannot be made the instrument for enforcing elsewhere the obligation purportedly
adjudicated by it. And even if we were to say that by
virtue of the New York practice, and without reference
to due process, the 1938 judgment is not an assertion of
judicial power to bind petitioner's property for the obligation which the judgment purports to establish, such a
judgment would obviously add nothing to the 1926 decree
as a basis for enforcing the obligation in another jurisdiction. Neither the judgment nor the earlier decree
would do more than establish the original obligation to
pay alimony subject to defenses which the supposed New
York practice would preserve if due process did not.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

It follows that to the extent that the 1938 judgment
purports to adjudge as due and owing arrears of alimony
accrued since October 25, 1935, the end of the period covered by the 1936 order, it is ineffective to establish petitioner's personal liability, or to deprive him of defenses
to his asserted liability for those arrears.
But the 1938 judgment, so far as it confirmed the adjudication of the amount of alimony and interest due as
of October 25, 1935, stands on a different footing. It has
not been suggested, and we have not found any New York
authority holding, that any of the questions with respect
to payment or to the modification of the alimony decree
nunc pro tunc which petitioner raised or might have raised
in the 1936 proceedings were thereafter open to him as to
the accrued installments which were the subject of his
motion to modify the decree. The 1936 order became
final upon the dismissal of petitioner's appeal from it, and
was an adjudication between the parties that arrears of
alimony were then due and owing by petitioner to respondent in the specified amount. As we said in Barber
v. Barber, 323 U. S. 77, 82, paraphrasing Sistare v. Sistare,
218 U. S. 1, where a decree for alimony is made the basis
of an action in another jurisdiction, " 'every reasonable
implication must be resorted to against the existence of'
a power to modify or revoke installments of alimony already accrued 'in the absence of clear language manifesting
an intention to confer it.' "
Defenses which might otherwise have been open to petitioner in the 1938 proceeding with respect to alimony
accrued to October 25, 1935 must thus be taken as having
been foreclosed by the 1936 proceedings, of which petitioner had actual notice, and in which he actively participated. The 1938 judgment, so far as it confirmed the 1936
order by which petitioner was already bound, impaired
no rights of petitioner, and foreclosed nb defense which
he had not had opportunity to offer. Due process does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

require that notice be given before confirmation of rights
theretofore established in a proceeding of which adequate
notice was given.
Upon the facts shown, respondent was therefore entitled
to maintain the present suit on the 1938 judgment for
the amount, with interest, thus adjudicated to be due by
the order of 1936, and as so adjudicated, confirmed by the
judgment of 1938. For in Sistarev. Sistare,supra,we held
that the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
required a Connecticut court to render judgment for past
due installments of alimony which had accrued under a
New York decree for future alimony, the right to which
we held had become vested under the then existing New
York law, even though the decree might be subject to modification prospectively as to future installments by further
orders of the New York court.
We have said that the failure to give petitioner notice
of the 1938 proceeding did not prejudice him as to any of
the defenses which he might have raised in the 1936 proceeding. But although it purported to do so, the 1938
judgment, because rendered without notice, could not
foreclose defenses going to the discharge of the obligation
established by the order of 1936, and arising since its date.
It follows that, upon further proceedings upon 'the remand of this cause to the district court, respondent will
be taken as having established the amount of alimony
accrued to October 25, 1935 remaining due and unpaid as
of February 25, 1936, subject to any subsequent defense
going to the discharge of the obligation so established,
which petitioner should be permitted to raise, if any he
has.
In the present state of the record, and because of the
limited nature of the questions presented and argued here,
we do not determine the extent to which respondent may,
upon such further proceedings as are appropriate on the
return of this case to the district court, recover, upon the

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

Opinion of the Court.

1926 decree, installments of alimony which have accrued
since October 25, 1935. While the 1926 decree is in the
record and must be the foundation of any right respondent
has to recover arrears of alimony accruing since October
25, 1935, her pleadings make it sufficiently clear that the
present suit was based upon the 1938 judgment rather
than upon the decree. If respondent is entitled to base
a suit for installments of alimony accruing after October
25, 1935 on the 1926 decree, she has misconceived her
cause of action as to those installments by seeking to recover them by virtue of the 1938 judgment, which is
invalid as to them because obtained without notice. But
petitioner is not to be prejudiced by respondent's mistake,
for since he was entitled to regard the suit as one upon
the judgment, he was not required to interpose defenses
which would be apt if the suit were upon the 1926 decree.
The suit on the 1938 judgment, in its present form, is not
to be viewed as if it were on the 1926 decree, a new and
different cause of action, and petitioner is not to be penalized for not having already raised his defenses to a claim
not presented by respondent's pleadings. In remanding
we leave the district court free to consider whether respondent, upon issues appropriately framed in conformity
to the summary judgment procedure, or by amended
pleadings, may recover on the basis of the 1926 decree,
arrears of alimony accruing since October 25, 1935.8
Only a word need be said as to petitioner's defense that
the judgment was procured by fraud. Although his
answer pleads his legal conclusion that the judgment is
not entitled to recognition because "of gross fraud in its
incidents, and in its procurement," etc., etc., his answer
sets up no facts showing the alleged fraud. A part of his
answer and an unverified statement filed by petitioner
C See Barber v. Barber, 323 U. S. at 81; Jacobs, The Enforcement
of Foreign Decrees for Alimony (1939), 6 Law & Contemporary

Problems, 250, 263-4.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

in response to the motion for summary judgment were
ordered stricken by the trial court, evidently because irrelevant and Scandalous. In these the charge of fraud is
elaborated by general statements that the machinations
of the New York counsel of the parties, and their racial,
religious and political affiliations with the judges who have
presided over the various phase&of the New York litigation, have resulted in the failure of justice exemplified
by the several decisions adverse to petitioner. We have
examined these assertions and find that the only support
for them, so far as appears, is petitioner's unsupported
suspicions. We thus find no basis for the allegation that
the judgment was procured or in some way affected by
fraud, or for the contention that the offensive matter was
improperly stricken. We have examined, but find it unnecessary to discuss various other of petitioner's contentions, which are likewise without merit.
The judgment will be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting in part.

I concur in the opinion except as it holds or implies that
the 1938 New York judgment is invalid and therefore is
not entitled to full faith and credit in so far as it includes
instalments of alimony accruing after October 25, 1935,
and interest upon them.
The Court apparently regards the judgment as invalid
to this extent because, under the New York procedure,
it was docketed without notice to the petitioner additional
to the notice he had received in the original proceeding for
divorce which resulted in the 1924 decree modified in 1926

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

to provide for the monthly accrual and payment of these
instalments.
The bases for this view seem to rest in two assumptions.
One is that the 1938 judgment, except as to the arrears
accumulated to October 25, 1935, is precisely the same as
any other money judgment and therefore falls within the
prohibition of Pennoyerv. Neff, 95 U. S. 714. In this view
the absence of further notice is equivalent to the absence
of any; and the judgment becomes invalid for want of due
process for purposes of local enforcement as well as for
receiving full faith and credit in other jurisdictions.' The
second assumption is that the docketing of the judgment
cut off petitioner's right to make any of the defenses, relating to matters arising after entry of the 1924 decree,
which by the law of New York he was entitled to make
(and which he did make in 1935 concerning arrears then
accrued) at any time prior to docketing of the judgment.
I am unable to accept either of these assumptions.
I.
If it were clear, as the Court seems to hold, that petitioner's right to make the allowable defenses was extinguished under the New York law by the docketing of
the judgment, we would be confronted with the necessity
of determining whether that fact would bring the case
within the rule and the reason of Pennoyer v. Neff, supra,
". .. the duly attested record of the judgment of a state is entitled to such faith and credit in every court within the United States
as it has by law or usage in the state from which it is taken." Adam
v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 62; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 5;
Hampt6n v. M'Connel, 3 Wheat. 234; Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch 481;

28 U. S. C. § 687.
In this case we are not concerned with the possible exception to
the general rule implicit in the situation presented by Williams v.
North Carolina,325 U. S. 226, that a decree for divorce, although not
entitled to full faith and credit in other States, still may be valid as
a matter of due process in the State where rendered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

and later cases following that decision.2 In that event,
the question to be decided would be whether it is within
the power of a State to provide that, after full notice and
hearing in a judicial proceeding resulting in a decree for
alimony to be paid in monthly instalments indefinitely,
those instalments should or might be docketed in the form
of judgments for specific amounts as they accrue without
further notice to the defendant; but with the qualification
that he should have the right to come in at any time before
an instalment is docketed and show that the circumstances
comprehended by the original decree have so changed as
to entitle him to reduce or terminate the payments. The
effect of such a provision would be simply to put upon the
defendant, against whom the decree had been rendered,
the burden of bringing to the court's attention and proving the changed situation.
It is difficult to see how such a provision could constitute
a want of due process or of notice in the jurisdictional
sense contemplated by the Pennoyer v. Neff line of decisions. Nor has this Court so held heretofore. By the
very terms of the alimony decree it is adjudicated that the
defendant is liable to pay the instalments as they accrue.
And also by its terms, together with the applicable
statutes, he is notified that the instalments will be, or may
be, docketed as judgments enforceable by execution, unless he takes the initiative in showing to the court before
the accrual date, or any later time when the plaintiff may
move for entry of judgment, that new conditions have
arisen requiring or justifying change or termination.
Moreover, in addition to the notice petitioner had received
from the original decree and the applicable statutes, he
received further notice from the 1936 order, entered after
2 See McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90; Milliken v. Meyer, 311
U. S. 457. See also Restatement, Judgments, § 6, Comment b; § 16,
Comment b; Burdick, Service as a Requirement of Due Process in
Actions in Personam (1922) 20 Mich. L. Rev. 422.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

contest, by virtue of the court's finding that he then had
no sufficient ground for securing a reduction, although
he had contended that he was financially unable to meet
these payments.
I cannot understand why such notice, clearly and unequivocally given in advance, is not sufficient both to
inform the defendant fully of his peril and to afford full
constitutional protection for his rights.' On the other
hand, to compel the wife to give additional notice before
docketing of each instalment is to shift to her the burden
which the original decree places squarely on the husband.
Moreover, in many cases where the amount of the monthly
or weekly instalment is small, the effect will be practically
to nullify the provision for payment of alimony, because
the cost of publishing or otherwise giving notice will equal
or exceed the amount of the instalment.4 A more perfect
tool hardly could be given to an absent or absconding
husband for defeating the substance of the award.
34 Cf. notes 9 and 13.

It is no answer to say that the wife may reduce the cost of publication or giving other form of notice by allowing the instalments to
accrue over long periods of time and then moving for entry of judgment in the aggregate sum, as the wife was forced to do in this case.
The very purpose of the provision for payment by instalments, rather

than in a lump sum, is to assure that the wife shall have them as
they accrue, as much as it is that the husband shall be allowed to
earn them as time goes along. She may be dependent for support
of herself and children more upon the promptness of the payments
than upon their ultimate certainty. And any technical requirement
for notice additional to that giyen by the original decree can only
result in depriving the wife of her right to prompt payment, if the
husband can take advantage of the requirement and the small amount
of the instalments to compel her to let them accumulate. Because
delay so often results in loss of substantial rights, the effect frequently
will be also to make impossible the ultimate as well as the immediate
collection of what is due; and to substitute a right of lifelong litigation for one of certain means of subsistence. The facts of this case
afford abundant illustration of both possibilities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

Due process does not require that notice of suit be given
more than once or, when this has been done and a valid
judgment entered, that additional notice must be given
before execution, original or alias.5 Jurisdiction over the
person having been obtained in the original proceeding
on adequate notice, further steps in the proceedings are
largely within the court's discretion, except in so far as
they are controlled by statute, including proceedings after
judgment and on execution. True, these later steps may
not be taken arbitrarily." But that limitation does not
require the giving of notice at each successive stage as
upon the original service of summons. Nor does it forbid
the court or the legislature to place upon the defendant
or other parties responsibility for keeping themselves informed concerning the progress of the cause. Judgment
by default, without further notice than a statutory warning to take steps to ward it off, is an everyday occurrence.
After judgment the burden of taking the initiative to
avoid the adjudication's effect falls even more heavily
upon the defendant. Unless he assumes and discharges
it, he cannot hold up execution for want of special notice
that authorized steps to reach his property are about to
be taken. Generally speaking, the stage of execution is
committed largely to the plaintiff's control; and that notice must be given to the defendant at that stage before
his property within the court's jurisdiction can be taken to
satisfy the judgment is foreign both to accepted conceptions of due process and to generally prevailing statutory
schemes for securing satisfaction.
In accordance with these principles, if an ordinary
money judgment were entered for a fixed sum, but with
authorized provision for payment in instalments over a
See Endicott Johnson Corp. v. Encyclopedia Press, 266 U. S. 285;
Taylor v. Stowe, 218 Mass. 248, 105 N. E. 890.
6 See Brown v. Brown, 62 R. I. 375, 6 A. 2d 144; State ex rel. Lane
v. Montgomery, 221 Mo. App. 1043, 295 S. W. 824.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

definite period, to be collected by levy upon failure to pay
any instalment when due, I fail to see what conceivable
constitutional objection could be raised against the judgment or any such levy by reason of failure to give notice
of the intended levy. Nor do I see how such a scheme
could be vitiated were the State additionally to require
that the levy, instead of being made automatically or ministerially at the plaintiff's instance, should be made only
after further order of the court, entered either of its own
motion or on application of the plaintiff. Whether judgments shall be paid in a lump sum or by instalments and
in either event whether execution shall issue and be levied
by one form of procedure or another, with or without
further notice, are matters wholly of policy within state
power to determine, raising no question of constitutional
import.
These principles are not altered fundamentally merely
because, in proceedings for divorce, the decree provides
that monthly instalments shall continue for the period of
need, in accordance with the duty to support imposed by
marriage and the birth of children,7 and take the place
of a lump sum payment fixed in amount.' Nor do they
become inapplicable because the State sees fit, as a matter
7 There are two principal theories as to the nature of alimony.

The

modern view is'that alimony "is a right of the same character as the
right of support lost by the dissolution of the marriage."

The histor-

ical view is that alimony "is a settlement of the property rights of the
parties and a distribution of the assets of the quasi-partnership
hitherto existing." Kelso, The Changing Social Setting of Alimony
Law (1939) 6 Law & Contemp. Prob. 186, 194-195; Wilson v. Hinman,
182 N. Y. 408, 410-412, 75 N. E. 236.
8The duty of support, incurred upon marriage, is not merely the
duty of a debtor arising upon a commercial transaction for the payment of a fixed sum with interest. Barber v. Barber, 217 N. C. 422,
428, 8 S. E. 2d 204. Nor is a judgment which enforces that duty to be
treatefd in all respects as one upon a commercial obligation in order
to be constitutionally valid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.'

of policy, to allow the defendant to show that the need,
or the duty created by the decree, has ended; at the same
time making it a condition of securing such relief that he
shall take the initiative in showing the changed situation
and shall do so before levy is made under instalments as
they accrue. Certainly there is nothing unreasonable,
harsh or arbitrary when a State, after full notice and hearing, determines that the basic familial obligation shall be
enforced by judicial decree formulated to embody the obligation in close analogy, if not exact identity, with the
obligation's substantive character, particularly when it
affords the husband opportunity for showing a change
affecting the substance of the obligation.
The fallacy of the Court's assumption, it seems to me,
is that the opportunity is inadequate if it is limited to the
period before the due date of the instalment arrives or such
later date as the wife may select to ask for entry of the
order. The Court has held a much less extended period
adequate, as against constitutional objections, for purposes of making defense in criminal prosecution. Yakus
v. United States, 321 U. S. 414. A fortiori, in view of the
character of the obligation and the previous adjudication
upon full notice and hearing, the period allowed by the
New York law for making further defense should be regarded as constitutionally sufficient, even if that law is
thought to cut off that right of defense when the order for
judgment is entered.
No more is involved than that the husband is commanded to make payment, unless conditions have changed
so as to justify nonpayment when the due date arrives;
and, if such changes have taken place, he is adequately
warned that he will be precluded from proving or relying
upon them to avoid payment of the preexisting judgment,
unless he makes the showing on or before that date. If
the husband's defense is payment, he will be able subsequently to vacate or attack collaterally the -judgment,'

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

since ordinarily it would be fraudulent for the wife to
docket a judgment for back alimony no longer owed to
her, as the Court's opinion suggests. Even if there were
a legal or factual dispute relating to payment and the
wife had acted in good faith in docketing the judgment,
as in a case where she had acted in ignorance of prior payment to her agent, it is inconceivable that a court, upon
a showing of payment, would refuse to vacate the judgment or that equity would not come to the husband's aid.
Her attempt to enforce the judgment or retain its proceeds
after learning of the satisfaction would be fraudulent.
I know of nothing in the Constitution which forbids a
State thus to limit the husband's right to upset the terms
of the general decree or which imposes upon the wife the
duty of keeping him informed of matters concerning which
the law of the State binds him to inform himself. Accordingly, if it were clear, as the Court assumes, that the
New York law forbids the husband to bring forward his
new defenses, if any, after the entry of the judgment, I
should see no valid constitutional objection to the judgment, or a levy made pursuant to it, on the score of want
of notice essential to due process.'
II.
But I am not convinced that New York law has the
effect of cutting off all right of defense upon the docketing of an instalment for the purposes of execution. Although this Court held in Sistare v. Sistare, 218 U. S. 1,
.that under New York law accrued instalments of alimony
could not be modified, this is no longer the case in New
York. N. Y. Civ. Prac. Act § 1170; Van Dusen v. Van
0 See Jones v. Jones, 204 Ark. 654, 163 S. W. 2d 528; also the authorities cited in note 13. It does not follow, however, that when alimony
decrees are enforced by other means, for example through exercise
of the contempt power, notice may not be required. Cf. Miller v.
Miller, 79 Colo. 118, 244 P. 66.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

Dusen, 258 App. Div. 1020, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 96; Eisinger v.
Eisinger,261 App. Div. 1031, 26 N. Y. S. 2d 22. See also
Karlinv. Karlin, 280 N. Y. 32, 19 N. E. 2d 669.
It is scarcely probable that, although such modification
may be made after accrual but before docketing of judgment, the New York courts would hold that it could not
be made after the formal act of docketing. The Court
points to no decision which so rules and none has been
cited or found. Indeed the Court's opinion indicates that
the husband could set aside the judgment upon showing
he had paid the instalment which it included. And in
Thayer v. Thayer, 145 App. Div. 268, 270-271, 129
N. Y. S. 1035, which is concededly leading authority upon
this general phase of New York law, the court said with
reference to the practice of docketing judgments for back
alimony without further notice than that given as foundation for the original decree:
"It is sufficient that the court is satisfied from the
proof presented to it that both parties are still alive,
and that the alimony remains unpaid. If the court
is misled and an installment improperly docketed, the
defendant will find no difficulty in having the mistake
corrected."
And in Caprio v. Caprio, 169 Misc. 568, 572, 8 N. Y. S. 2d
205, it was stated:
"The docketing of a judgment for back alimony is
a recognized practice . . . and the judgment is good
ifsupported by facts, but, like any other judgment,
it can be set aside or modified."
These statements made by courts familiar with the
New York practice plainly indicate that in circumstances
sufficient to justify such action the courts of New York
not only will hear the defendant's objections after the
judgment is docketed but, as in other cases when the showing is sufficient, will set aside the judgment or modify it
as the facts may require. This, of course, may not mean

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

that he will be heard to raise the identical objections which
he might have presented before docketing, since it is entirely possible for the court to find that he was lacking in
appropriate diligence in presenting them and should not
have further opportunity to do so in view of that fact.
But, whether or not this is true, the quoted statements
of New York practice clearly indicate that in any case
of serious hardship the defendant will not be foreclosed,
merely by the docketing of the judgment, from advancing
his objections by appropriate procedure and having them
determined. In the face of such authoritative expressions
concerning the local law and practice and in the absence
of any contrary expression from a source of similar authority, this Court should not substitute its own longdistance judgment or assumption to the opposite effect,

especially since on its own theory the constitutionality
of the New York statute in question falls on such an
assumption."0
III.
If this view of the New York law is correct, the New
York judgment is not wholly void for want of due process;
for the petitioner is not deprived of any right of defense
10 The declaration in Sistare v. Sistare, 218 U. S. 1, 22, quoted in
Barber v. Barber,323 U. S. 77, 82, that "every reasonable implication
must be resorted to against the existence of" a power to modify or
revoke instalments of alimony already accrued "in the absence of clear
language manifesting an intention to confer it" was addressed to a
different question, finality for purposes of full faith and credit, cf. Part
III of this opinion, and, if applied in this case, would be in direct contradiction of the rule that legislation is presumptively constitutional.
Under the decision of the Court, § 1171-b of the New York Civil
Practice Act may also be unconstitutional, as that section, enacted
since the entry of the 1938 judgment, provides that the application
for an order directing the entry of judgment for arrears in alimony
"shall be upon such notice to the husband as the court may direct."
It may be that under this wording the New York courts need not
direct any notice at all.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

which he may be entitled to make. It is not apparent,
nor has he shown, that even now he could not make full
defense upon any substantially meritorious ground in the
New York courts and succeed in having the judgment
set aside.
Nor, as petitioner has made his case, is the question
presented whether the New York judgment is so lacking
in finality that it is not entitled to receive full faith and
credit in other jurisdictions. 1 But if that question is
taken to lurk inescapably in the record, in the view which
I have taken of the state of the New York law, it does
not follow that the objection is valid.
The judgment under New York law is prima facie valid,
if it is not conclusively so. It affords foundation for
the issuance and levy of execution. In the absence of
timely assertion of grounds requiring it to be set aside,
.it becomes conclusive.
This Court has not heretofore held that such a judgment is not entitled to full faith and credit. Contrary
dicta reflecting the belief that it would be lacking in necessary finality are, in my opinion, neither conclusive nor
sound. Certainly in the absence of any suggestion that
the judgment has been questioned in the forum where
rendered, adequate opportunity being there afforded,
nothing but the most technical and absolute conception
of "finality" could be thought to deprive it of credit. Beyond this, it is not apparent why all substantial rights of
the defendant would not be fully secured, if the same effect
were given to the New York judgment in the suit brought
upon it elsewhere as it has in New York.
In the present case this would mean that the judgment
would be enforced in the courts of the District of Co"To have objected that the New York judgment was not sufficiently final to be entitled to receive full faith and credit would have
been in contradiction of petitioner's objection that it deprived him of
due process, since his due process argument is founded in the view
that his rights have been conclusively adjudicated.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

RuTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

lumbia, unless after service of summons in the suit for
enforcement there the defendant could show to the court's
satisfaction a change in circumstances or other defense
sufficient under New York law to require modification or
setting aside of the award. Indeed the Court does not
altogether foreclose this possibility, since it reserves the
question whether, upon further proceedings in the District
Court, the wife may amend her claim so as to rest upon the
1924 decree, as modified in 1926; and the husband then
may make his defenses allowed by New York law. If that
can be done with reference to the original decree, I see
no reason why the same thing should be forbidden as to
the 1938 judgment. And I think the question should be
determined now, not in still another chapter of this long
drawn out litigation.
The full faith and credit clause does not in any case
require that a judgment, to be credited, must be endowed
with absolute finality. It is enough, in my opinion, if
the judgment is endowed by the law of its origin with
finality sufficient to sustain the issuance and levy of execution, although the same law may afford an opportunity for
setting aside or modifying it upon the making of a specified showing. This is true, in my opinion, whether the
suit is on the 1938 judgment or on the original decree.
There is no sound ground for distinguishing them so as to
permit suit, with the right defense, upon the one and not
upon the other. The considerations stated by MR. JusTICE JACKSON in his concurring opinion in Barber v.
Barber,323 J. S. 77, 86, sufficiently state the reasons supporting the views set forth in this paragraph."
It was just such rigid notions of finality which long prevented
recognition of the Court of Claims as a judicial body. See Gordon v.
United States, 2 Wall. 561, 117 U. S. 697; United States v. Klein, 13
Wall. 128, 144-145. Subsequently the governing statute of the Court
of Claims was amended, and since that time it has never been doubted
that Congress may authorize an appeal to this Court from a final

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

Accordingly, whether one view or the other of the New
York law is taken, I think the 1938 New York judgment

is entitled to full faith and credit in the District of Columbia,"a according to the exact effect it had in New York.
Since, in my opinion, the law of that State allowed the
defendant on proper showing to make the defense of
change in situation, whether before or after the docketing
of the judgment, the same effect should be given to the
judgment in the District of Columbia. As no adequate
basis for modifying the judgment was tendered or proved
by the defendant in the District of Columbia proceeding,
I think the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be
affirmed in its entirety.
MR.

JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE

BLACK joins in this opinion.
FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

My brother RUTLEDGE has discussed in detail difficulties
involved in the Court's disposition of this case and I shall
state briefly the grounds for my support of his conclusion.
judgment of the Court of Claims. United States v. Klein, supra;
Williams v. United States, 289 U. S. 553, 563-564.
Even if the judgment were not sufficiently final for full faith and
credit purposes, it nevertheless would be within the discretion of the
District of Columbia to give it effect on grounds of comity. The
full faith and credit clause commands States in certain instances to
recognize the judgments of sister States; it does not prohibit them
from doing so in other instances. See Jacobs, The Enforcement of
Foreign Decrees for Alimony (1939) 6 Law & Contemp. Prob. 250,
263-264. See generally Note, The Finality of Judgments in the Conflict of Laws (1941) 41 Col. L. Rev. 878, 884-887.
Upon the Court's treatment of the North Carolina law in Barber
v. Barber, the reservations made by MR. JUSTICE JACKSON were per-

haps not required, since on that treatment the question now presented
was not involved.
:1 See Dadmun v. Dadmun, 279 Mass. 217, 181 N. E. 264, where
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts gave full faith and credit
to a New York judgment for arrears in alimony which had been
entered without notice to the defendant; Nelson, Divorce and Annulment (2d ed.) § 33.45; cf. Barns v. Barns, 9 Cal. App. 2d 427, 50 P.
2d 463; Defoe v. Defoe, 116 W. Va. 197, 179 S. E. 74.

GRIFFIN v. GRIFFIN.
220

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

The opportunity to defeat a claim-the right to notice
before a court can determine liability-is a safeguard
guaranteed by the Due Process Clause. But money judgments are not like peas in a pod. Because of differences in
the source and function of liability, the demand of fairness
which underlies the requirement of notice may well be
satisfied by different procedures. A judgment for future
alimony, as one of the incidents of jurisdiction to decree
a divorce, is very unlike a judgment for the ordinary lump
sum indebtedness. It is in effect an ambulatory judgment
for each instalment as it becomes due. The obligation to
pay arrears flows from the original judgment and may be
pursued upon that judgment elsewhere than in the rendering State. Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582; Sistare v.
Sistare, 218 U. S. 1. For purposes of suability as a judgment elsewhere, the accrued instalments need not be reduced to judgment anew in the State of the original
decree, whatever may be the requirements for the execution of that judgment in the rendering State.
But it is said that the State rendering the original judgment for alimony may allow, as New York has done here,
mitigation of such judgment even as to accrued instalments. If so, such mitigating defenses may be set up
when the decree for alimony is sued on in a sister State as
well as when enforced in the rendering State. A judgment
may have been paid and yet a suit thereon may be brought
in another State. While such a defense, if well founded,
precludes a second recovery on that judgment anywhere,
the availability of such a defense does not bar suit on such
a judgment in a sister State. It runs counter to no requirement of Due Process to make a judgment debtor defend
a suit on that judgment by claiming discharge of its
liability, whether through payment or otherwise. Such a
procedure is entirely consonant with the full faith and
credit which "shall be given in each State to the . . . judicial Proceedings of every other State." Article IV, § 1

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

of the Constitution; see the concurring opinion in Barber
v. Barber, 323 U. S. 77, 86, at 87. Moreover, the District
of Columbia, as is true of a State, see Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551, may as a matter of conflict of laws go
beyond what is required by the Full Faith and Credit
Clause. If, perchance, relief from accrued instalments is
based on considerations of policy peculiarly within the
local understanding and discretionary determination of
judges of the originating jurisdiction, sister State tribunals have ample power of abstention to respect such
local qualifications. In any event, access to this Court is
always open on such a federal issue.

I agree therefore with my brother

RUTLEDGE

that the

judgment below should be affirmed in its entirety. While
formally the suit was on the New York judgment of 1938,
this in turn was based on the original judgment for alimony. That judgment is in the record and is the real
source of these proceedings. If a misdescription of a criminal prosecution is deemed a formal irrelevance so long
as an offense is intrinsically charged, Williams v. United
States, 168 U. S. 382, a misdescription by the pleader of
the basis of a suit for accrued instalments on a judgment
for alimony can hardly be too tight a knot for courts to
untie.
Pleadings, particularly in a case of this sort, are no
longer to be dealt with in the spirit of Baron Parke. See
L. Hand, The Deficiencies of Trials to Reach the Heart of
the Matter (1921), in 3 Lectures on Legal Topics, Association of the Bar of the City of New York (1926) 89.
A suitor is entitled to have relief justified by the facts he
has pleaded, whether he has accurately described his pleading or has asked for relief appropriate to the pleaded
facts. See United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288
U. S. 62, 68-69; Bemis Bro. Bag Co. v. United States, 289
U. S. 28, 34. The purpose of a complaint is to give the defendant fair notice of the claim against him. If it does

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
220

251

Syllabus.

that, the complaint is legally sufficient. Griffin could have
had no doubt that his wife was suing in the District of
Columbia for unpaid instalments of alimony which New
York, as part of the divorce proceedings, had decreed in
her favor. Upon the record before us the petitioner disclaimed liability for these arrears on grounds which do not
save him. We ought not to deny liability flowing from
a live judgment by assuming that the petitioner has better
grounds for avoiding liability than those that he has already asserted. If, perchance, he could satisfy the district
court that he has failed to set up a valid defense through
a reasonable misconception of what was the essence of his
wife's suit, namely a suit for arrears of alimony which were
her due, it would not be casting an unreasonable burden
on the petitioner to require him to move to set aside the
judgment on appropriate grounds.

BIGELOW

ET AL.

v. RKO RADIO PICTURES, INC.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 444. Argued February 7, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. Petitioners owned a motion picture theatre in Chicago. Some of
the respondents were distributors of motion picture films; others
owned or controlled motion picture theatres in Chicago. Petitioners
sued respondents under the Sherman and Clayton Acts to recover
treble damages. The gist of the complaint was that, by reason
of an unlawful conspiracy of the respondents, petitioners were prevented from securing pictures -for exhibition in their theatre until
after the preferred exhibitors had been able to show them in earlier
and more desirable runs, and that petitioners were thus discriminated against in the distribution of feature films in favor of competing theatres owned or controlled by some of the respondents.
It appeared that, after the introduction in 1937 of the practice
of showing double features, petitioners were no longer able to secure
films which had not had a prior showing. Petitioners charged that

