OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

which it is based, is erroneous.

327 U. S.

"In order to obtain a ju-

dicial determination of such issues such registrants must
first submit to induction and raise the issue by habeas
corpus." H. Rep. No. 36, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. (1945) 5.

It follows that if the registrant is indicted for disobedience
of the board's order he cannot defend on the ground that
the draft procedure has not been complied with or, if convicted, secure his release on that ground by resort to habeas
corpus. The result is that such relief is open to him only
if he obeys the order and submits to induction, when he is
free to seek habeas corpus.

We do not find in the record of either case sufficient basis
for reversal thereof on the grounds suggested in Part II
of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S opinion.

HANNEGAN, POSTMASTER GENERAL, v.
ESQUIRE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 399.

Argued January 11, 1946.-Decided February 4, 1946.

1. Section 14 of the Classification Act of 1879 provides that, in order
to be admitted as second-class mail, a publication "must be originated and published for the dissemination of information of a public
character, or devoted to literature, the sciences, arts . . ." Held
that, under this provision, the Postmaster General is without power
to prescribe standards for the literature or the art which a mailable
periodical (not obscene) disseminates, or to determine* whether
the contents of the periodical meet some standard of the public
good or welfare. Pp. 148, 158.
2. A purpose on the part of Congress to grant the Postmaster General
a power of censorship-a power so abhorrent to our traditions-is not lightly to be inferred. P. 151.
3. When read in the context of the postal laws of which it is an integral part, the provisions of § 14 must be taken as establishing
standards which relate to the format of the publication and to the
nature of its contents, but not to their quality, worth, or value.
P. 152.

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

Opinion of the Court.

In that view, "literature" and the "arts" mean no more than
productions which convey ideas by words, pictures, or drawings.
P. 153.
151 F. 2d 49, affirmed.

In a suit by the respondent to enjoin the Postmaster
General from carrying into effect an order revoking
respondent's second-class-mail permit, the district court
denied the injunction and dismissed the complaint. The
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed.
151 F. 2d 49. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
708. Affirmed, p. 159.
Marvin C. Taylor argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett and Vincent M. Miles.
Bruce Bromley argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Morris L. Ernst and Harriet F.
Pilpel.
Briefs were filed by the following as amici curiae, in
support of respondent: James W. Stites, George Roberts
and Whitney North Seymour; Elisha Hanson for the
American Newspaper Publishers Association; Francis H.
Scheetz and Arthur H. Clephane for the Curtis Publishing Company; Robert E. Coulson and William R. Sherwood for the Reader's Digest Association, Inc.; Sidney R.
Fleisher for the Authors' League of America, Inc.; and
Charles Horsky, Arthur Dehon Hill, Luther Ely Smith
and Arthur GarfieldHays for the American Civil Liberties
Union.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Congress has made obscene material nonmailable (35
Stat. 1129, 18 U. S. C. § 334), and has applied criminal
sanctions for the enforcement of that policy. It has

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opipion of the Court.

327 U. S.

divided mailable matter into four classes, periodical publications constituting the second-class.1 § 7 of the Classification Act of 1879, 20 Stat. 358, 43 Stat. 1067, 39 U. S. C.
§ 221. And it has specified four conditions upon which a
publication shall be admitted to the second-class. § 14 of
the Classification Act of 1879, 20 Stat. 359, 48 Stat. 928, 39
U. S. C. § 226. The Fourth condition, which is the only
one relevant here, provides:
"Except as otherwise provided by law, the conditions upon which a publication shall be admitted to
the second class are as follows . . . Fourth. It must
be originated and published for the dissemination
of information of a public character, or devoted
to literature, the sciences, arts, or some special
industry, and having a legitimate list of subscribers.
Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
admit to the second-class rate regular publications
designed primarily for advertising purposes, or for
free circulation, or for circulation at nominal rates."
Respondent is the publisher of Esquire Magazine, a
monthly periodical which was granted a second-class permit in 1933. In 1943, pursuant to the Act of March 3,
1901, 31 Stat. 1107, 39 U. S. C. § 232, a citation was issued
1 "That mailable matter of the second class shall embrace all newspapers and other periodical publications which are issued at stated
intervals, and as frequently as four times a year and are within the
conditions named in sections twelve and fourteen." § 10 of the Classification Act of 1879, 20 Stat. 359, 39 U. S. C. § 224. For other periodical publications which are included in second-class matter, see 37
Stat. 550, 39 U. S. C. § 229; 31 Stat. 660, 39 U. S. C. § 230.
2 The first three conditions are:
"First. It must regularly be issued at stated intervals, as frequently as four times a year, and bear a date of issue, and be
numbered consecutively. Second. It must be issued from a
known office of publication. Third. It must be formed of printed
paper sheets, without board, cloth, leather, or other substantial
binding, such as distinguish printed books for preservation from
periodical publications: Provided, That publications produced by
the stencil, mimeograph, or hectograph process or in imitation of
typewriting shall not be regarded as printed within the meaning
of this clause."

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

149

Opinion of the Court.

to respondent by the then Postmaster General (for whom
the present Postmaster General has now been substituted
as petitioner) to show cause why that permit should not
be suspended or revoked.' A hearing was held before a
board designated by the then Postmaster General. 4 The
board recommended that the permit not be revoked. Petitioner's predecessor took a different view. He did not
find that Esquire Magazine contained obscene material
and therefore was nonmailable. He revoked its secondclass permit because he found that it did not comply with
the Fourth condition. The gist of his holding is contained
in the following excerpt from his opinion:
"The plain language of this statute does not assume
that a publication must in fact be 'obscene' within
the intendment of the postal obscenity statutes before
it can be found not to be 'originated and published
for the dissemination of information of a public character, or devoted to literature, the sciences, arts, or
some special industry.'
"Writings and pictures may be indecent, vulgar,
and risque and still not be obscene in a technical sense.
Such writings and pictures may be in that obscure
and treacherous borderland zone where the average
person hesitates to find them technically obscene, but
still may see ample proof that they are morally improper and not for the public welfare and the public good. When such writings or pictures occur in
isolated instances their dangerous tendencies and
malignant qualities may be considered of lesser
importance.
"When, however, they become a dominant and systematic feature they most certainly cannot be said to
be for the public good, and a publication which uses
them in that manner is not making the 'special con8Sec. 1 of that Act provides:
"When any publication has been accorded second-class mail
privileges, the same shall not be suspended or annulled until a
hearing shall have been granted to the parties interested."
4 See 7 Fed. Reg. 3001.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

tribution to the public welfare' which Congress intended by the Fourth condition.
"A publication to enjoy these unique mail privileges and special preferences is bound to do more than
refrain from disseminating material which is obscene
or bordering on the obscene. It is under a positive
duty to contribute to the public good and the public
welfare."
Respondent thereupon sued in the District Court for
the District of Columbia to enjoin the revocation order.
The parties stipulated at a pre-trial conference that the
suit would not be defended on the ground that Esquire
Magazine was obscene or was for any other reason nonmailable.' The district court denied the injunction and
dismissed the complaint. 55 F. Supp. 1015. The court
of appeals reversed. 151 F. 2d 49. The case is here on
a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the postal laws.
The issues of Esquire Magazine under attack are those
for January to November, inclusive, of 1943. The material complained of embraces in bulk only a small percentage of those issues.6 Regular features of the magazine
(called "The Magazine for Men") include articles on
topics of current interest, short stories, sports articles or
stories, short articles by men prominent in various fields
of activities, articles about men prominent in the news,
a book review department headed by the late William
Lyon Phelps, a theatrical department headed by George
Jean Nathan, a department on the lively arts by Gilbert
Seldes, a department devoted to men's clothing, and pictorial features, including war action paintings, color photographs of dogs and water colors or etchings of game
5It was not contended that Esquire Magazine does not comply with
the first three conditions of 39 U. S. C.§ 226, set forth in note 2, supra.
6Items taking up a part or all of 86 pages out of a total of 1,972
pages.

HANNEGAN v: ESQUIRE, INC.
146

Opinion of the Court.

birds and reproductions of famous paintings, prints and
drawings. There was very little in these features which
was challenged. But petitioner's predecessor found that
the objectionable items, though a small percentage of the
total bulk, were regular recurrent features which gave the
magazine its dominant tone or characteristic. These include jokes, cartoons, pictures, articles, and poems. They
were said to reflect the smoking-room type of humor, featuring, in the main, sex. Some witnesses found the challenged items highly objectionable, calling them salacious
and indecent. Others thought they were only racy and
risque. Some condemned them as being merely in poor
taste. Other witnesses could find no objection to them.
An examination of the items makes plain, we think, that
the controversy is not whether the magazine publishes
"information of a public character" or is devoted to "literature" or to the "arts." It is whether the contents are
"good" or "bad." To uphold the order of revocation
would, therefore, grant the Postmaster General a power
of censorship. Such a power is so abhorrent to our traditions that a purpose to grant it should not be easily
inferred.
The second-class privilege is a form of subsidy.' From
the beginning Congress has allowed special rates to certain
classes of publications. The Act of February 20, 1792,
1 Stat. 232, 238, granted newspapers a more favorable
rate. These were extended to magazines and pamphlets
by the Act of May 8, 1794, 1 Stat. 354, 362. Prior to the
Classification Act of 1879, periodicals were put into the
second-class,8 which by the Act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat.
It was found to be worth $500,000 a year to Esquire Magazine.
"A newspaper editor fears being put out of business by the administrative denial of the second-class mailing privilege much more than
the prospect of prison subject to a jury trial." Chafee, Freedom of
Speech (1920), p. 199.
8 Rates on periodicals, designed primarily for advertising
purposes
or for free circulation, were increased by the Act of July 12, 1876, 19
Stat. 78, 82.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

701, 705, included "all mailable matter exclusively in
print, and regularly issued at stated periods, without addition by writing, mark, or sign." That Act plainly
adopted a strictly objective test and left no discretion to
the postal authorities to withhold the second-class privilege from a mailable newspaper or periodical because it
failed to meet some standard of worth or value or propriety. There is nothing in the language or history of the
Classification Act of 1879 which suggests that Congress
in that law made any basic change in its treatment of
second-class mail, let alone such an abrupt and radical
change as would be entailed by the inauguration of even
a limited form of censorship.
The postal laws make a clear-cut division between mailable and nonmailable material. The four classes of mailable matter are generally described by objective standards
which refer in part to their contents, but not to the quality
of their contents. The more particular descriptions of
the first,"° third," and fourth 12 classes follow the same
9Sec. 7 of the Classification Act of 1879, as amended, 39 U. S. C.
§ 221, provides:
"Mailable matter shall be divided into four classes:
"First, written matter;
"Second, periodical publications;
"Third, miscellaneous printed matter and other mailable matter not in the first, second, or fourth classes;
"Fourth, merchandise and other mailable matter weighing not
less than eight ounces and not in any other class."
10 First class. "Mailable matter of the first class shall embrace letters, postal cards, and all matters wholly or partly in writing . .
39 U. S. C. § 222.
11Third class. "Mail matter of the third class shall include books,
circulars, and other matter wholly in print (except newspapers and
other periodicals entered as second-class matter), proof sheets, corrected proof sheets, and manuscript copy accompanying same, merchandise (including farm and factory products) and all other mailable matter not included in the first or second class, or in the fourth
class . . ." 39 U. S. C. § 235.
22 Fourth class. "Mail matter of the fourth class shall weigh in excess
of eight ounces, and shall include books, 'circulars, and other matter
wholly in print (except newspapers and other periodicals entered as

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

153

Opinion of the Court.

pattern, as do the first three conditions specified for secIf, therefore, the Fourth condition
ond-class matter.'
is read in the context of the postal laws of which it is an
integral part, it, too, must be taken to supply standards
which relate to the format of the publication and to the
nature of its contents, but not to their quality, worth, or
value. In that view, "literature" or the "arts" mean no
more than productions which convey ideas by words,
pictures, or drawings.
If the Fourth condition is read in that way, it is plain
that Congress made no radical or basic change in the type
of regulation which it adopted for second-class mail in
1879. The inauguration of even a limited type of censorship would have been such a startling change as to have
left some traces in the legislative history. But we find
none. Congressman Money, a member of the Postal Committee who defended the bill on the floor of the House,
stated that it was "nothing but a simplification of the
postal code. There are no new powers granted to the
Department by this bill, none whatever." 8 Cong. Rec.
2134. The bill contained registration provisions which
were opposed on the ground that they might be the inception of a censorship of the press. Id., p. 2137. These
were deleted. Id., pp. 2137, 2138. It is difficult to
imagine that the Congress, having deleted them for fear
of censorship, gave the Postmaster General by the Fourth
second-class matter), proof sheets, corrected proof sheets and manuscript copy accompanying same, merchandise (including farm and
factory products), and all other mailable matter not included in the
first or second class, or in the third class as defined in section 235 of
this title, not exceeding eleven pounds in weight, nor greater in size
than seventy-two inches in length and girth combined, nor in form or
kind likely to injure the person of any postal employee or damage
the mail equipment or other mail matter and not of a character perishable within a period reasonably required for transportation and
delivery." 39 U. S. C. § 240.
18See note 2, supra.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

condition discretion to deny periodicals the second-class
rate, if in his view they did not contribute to the public
good. Congressman Money indeed referred to "the daily
newspapers, with their load of gossip and scandal and
every-day topics that are floating through the press" as
being entitled without question to the second-class privilege. Id., p. 2135. To the charge that the bill imposed
a censorship, he pointed out that it only withheld the
privileged rate from publications "made up simply of
advertising concerns not intended for public education";
and added:
"We know the reason for which papers are allowed to
go at a low rate of postage, amounting almost to the
franking privilege, is because they are the most efficient educators of our people. It is because they go
into general circulation and are intended for the dissemination of useful knowledge such as will promote
the prosperity and the best interests of the people all
ovrer the country. Then all this vast mass of matter
is excluded from that low rate of postage. I say, instead of being a censorship upon the press, it is for the
protection of the legitimate journals of the country."
Id., p. 2135.
The policy of Congress has been clear. It has been
to encourage the distribution of periodicals which disseminated "information of a public character" or which were
devoted to "literature, the sciences, arts, or some special
industry," because it was thought that those publications
as a class contributed to the public good.14 The standards prescribed in the Fourth condition have been criticized, but not on the ground that they provide for
censorship. 5 As stated by the Postal Commission of
1911, H. Doc. 559, 62d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 142:
14 See Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288, 301; Annual
Report of Postmaster General (1892), p. 71.
" See Report of the Postal Commission of 1906, H. Doc. 608. 59th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. xxxvi-xxxvii:
"But in what way can it be said that a requirement that a certain
printed matter should be 'devoted to literature' serves to mark it

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

Opinion of the Court.

"The original object in placing on second-class matter a rate far below that on any other class of mail
was to encourage the dissemination of news and of
current literature of educational value. This object
has been only in part attained. The low rate has
helped to stimulate an enormous mass of periodicals,
many of which are of little utility for the cause of
popular education. Others are of excellent quality,
but the experience of the post office has shown the
impossibility of making a satisfactory test based upon
literary or educational values. To attempt to do
so would be to set up a censorship of the press. Of
necessity the words of the statute-'devoted to literature, the sciences, arts, or some special industry'must have a broad interpretation."
We may assume that Congress has a broad power of
classification and need not open second-class mail to publications of all types. The categories of publications
entitled to that classification have indeed varied through
the years.1" And the Court held in Ex parte Jackson, 96
U. S. 727, that Congress could constitutionally make it a
off from anything else that can be put into print. There is practically no form of expression of the human mind that can not be
brought within the scope of 'public information,' 'literature, the
sciences, art, or some special industry.' It would have been just
as effective and just as reasonable for the statute to have said,
'devoted to the interests of humanity,' or 'devoted to the development of civilization,' or 'devoted to human intellectual

activity.'
"The prime defect in the statute is, then, that it defines not by
qualities but by purposes, and the purpose described is so broad
as to include everything and exclude nothing.
"With the exception of a few instances where the publication
has been excluded because the information was deemed not to
be public, no periodical has ever been classified by the application
of tests of this kind. Any attempt to apply them generally would
simply end in a press censorship."
16 As we have seen, the Fourth condition bars admission to secondclass privileges of publications "designed primarily for advertising
purposes, or for free circulation, or for circulation at nominal rates."
Publications of state departments of agriculture were not granted the
special rate until the Act of June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 660, 39 U. S. C.
§ 230. And that was not done for publications of benevolent and fra-

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

crime to send fraudulent or obscene material through the
mails. But grave constitutional questions are immediately raised once it is said that the use of the mails is a
privilege which may be extended or withheld on any
grounds whatsoever. See the dissents of Mr. Justice
Brandeis and Mr. Justice Holmes in Milwaukee Publishing Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S. 407, 421-423, 430-432, 437438. Under that view the second-class rate could be
granted on condition that certain economic or political
ideas not be disseminated. The provisions of the Fourth
condition would have to be far more explicit for us to assume that Congress made such a radical departure from
our traditions "7and undertook to clothe the Postmaster
General with the power to supervise the tastes of the reading public of the country. 8
ternal societies, of institutions of learning, trade unions, strictly professional, literary, historical and scientific societies until the Act of
August 24, 1912, 37 Stat. 550, 39 U. S. C. § 229.
17 See Deutsch, Freedom of the Press and of the Mails, 36 Mich.
L. Rev. 703, 715-727.
s18When Congress has been concerned with the content of matter
passing through the mails, it has enacted criminal statutes making, for
example, obscene material (35 Stat. 1129, 18 U. S. C. § 334), fraudulent material (35 Stat. 1130, 18 U. S. C. § 338), and seditious literature
(40 Stat. 230, 18 U. S. C. § 344) nonmailable in any class. And it has
granted the Postmaster General power to refuse to deliver mail for any
person whom he finds to be using the mails in conducting lotteries or
fraudulent schemes. Rev. Stat. 3929, 39 U. S. C. § 259.
But that power has been zealously watched and strictly confined.
See, for example, S. Doe. 118, 24th Cong., 1st Sess., reporting adversely
on the recommendation of President Jackson that a law be passed
prohibiting the use of the mails for the transmission of publications
intended to instigate the slaves to insurrection. It was said, p. 3:
"But to understand more fully the extent of the control which
the right of prohibiting circulation through the mail would give
to the Government over the press, it must be borne in mind, that
the power of Congress over the Post Office and the mail is an
exclusive power. It must also be remembered that Congress,
in the exercise of this power, may declare any road or navigable
water to be a post road; and that, by the act of 1825, it is pro-

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

157

Opinion of the Court.

It is plain, as we have said, that the favorable secondclass rates were granted periodicals meeting the requirements of the Fourth condition, so that the public good
might be served through a dissemination of the class of
periodicals described. But that is a far cry from assuming that Congress had any idea that each applicant for
the second-class rate must convince the Postmaster General" that his publication positively contributes to the
public good or public welfare. Under our system of government there is an accommodation for the widest varieties of tastes and ideas. 9 What is good literature, what
has educational value, whAt is refined public information,
what is good art, varies with individuals as it does from
one generation to another. There doubtless would be a
contrariety of views '0concerning Cervantes'Don Quixote,
vided 'that no stage, or other vehicle which regularly performs
trips on a post road, or on a road parallel to it, shall carry letters.'
The same provision extends to packets, boats, or other vessels,
on navigable waters. Like provision may be extended to newspapers and pamphlets; which, if it be admitted that Congress
has the right to discriminate in reference to their character, what
papers shall or what shall not be transmitted by the mail, would
subject the freedom of the press, on all subjects, political, moral,
and religious, completely to its will and pleasure. It would, in
fact, in some respects, more effectually control the freedom of
the press than any sedition law, however severe its penalties. The
mandate of the Government alone would be sufficient to close
the door against circulation through the mail, and thus, at its
sole will and pleasure, might intercept all communication between the press and the people . . ."
19"The foolish judgments of Lord Eldon about one hundred years
ago, proscribing the works of Byron and Southey, and the finding by
the jury under a charge by Lord Denman that the publication of
Shelley's 'Queen Mab' was an indictable offense are a warning to all
who have to determine the limits of the field within which authors
may exercise themselves." United States v. One Book Entitled
Ulysses, 72 F. 2d 705, 708.
20 In the present case petitioner's predecessor said in his report:
"when the polls of public opinion submitted by the publication
are examined, it is found that these pictures were characterized
as obscene or indecent by 19 to 22% of the persons interviewed,
and that 20 to 26% of the persons polled would object to having
them in their homes,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Shakespeare's Venus and Adonis, or Zola's Nana. But a
requirement that literature or art conform to some norm
prescribed by an official smacks of an ideology foreign to
our system. The basic values implicit in the requirements
of the Fourth condition can be served only by uncensored
distribution of literature. From the multitude of competing offerings the public will pick and choose. What
seems to one to be trash may have for others fleeting or
even enduring values. But to withdraw the second-class
rate from this publication today because its contents
seemed to one official not good for the public would sanction withdrawal of the second-class rate tomorrow from
another periodical whose social or economic views seemed
harmful to another official. The validity of the obscenity
laws is recognition that the mails may not be used to
satisfy all tastes, no matter how perverted. But Congress
has left the Postmaster General with no power to prescribe
standards for the literature or the art which a mailable
periodical disseminates.
This is not to say that there is nothing left to the Postmaster General under the Fourth condition. It is his
duty to "execute all laws relative to the Postal Service."
Rev. Stat. § 396, 5 U. S. C. § 369. For example, questions
will arise as they did in Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S.88;
Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S.106, and Smith v.
Hitchcock, 226 U. S.53, whether the publication which
seeks the favorable second-class rate is a periodical as defined in the Fourth condition or a book or other type of
publication. And it may appear that the information
contained in a periodical may not be of a "public character." But the power to determine whether a periodical
(which is mailable) contains information of a public character, literature or art does not include the further power

HANNEGAN v. ESQUIRE, INC.
146

FRANKFURTER,

159

J., concurring.

to determine whether the contents meet some standard
of the public good or welfare.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

The case lies within very narrow confines. The publication under scrutiny is a periodical. It is therefore entitled to the special rates accorded by Congress provided
it is published "for the dissemination of information of
a public character, or devoted to literature, the sciences,
arts . . ." If it be devoted to "literature" it becomes
unnecessary to consider how small an infusion of "information of a public character" entitles a periodical to
the second-class mail rates when the bulk of its contents would not otherwise satisfy the Congressional
conditions.
Congress has neither defined its conception of "literature" nor has it authorized the Postmaster General to do
so. But it has placed a limitation upon what is to be
deemed "literature" for a privilege which the Court
rightly calls a form of subsidy. Matters that are declared
nonmailable (Criminal Code § 211; 35 Stat. 1129, 36 Stat.
1339; 18 U. S. C. § 334) are of course not "literature"
within the scope of the second-class privilege. But the
Postmaster General does not contend that the periodical
with which we are concerned was nonmailable. He merely
contends that it was not devoted to the kind of "literature" or "art" which may claim the subsidy of secondclass matter. But since Congress has seen fit to allow
"literature" conveyed by periodicals to have the secondclass privilege without making any allowable classification of "literature," except only that nonmailable matter
as defined by § 211 of the Criminal Code is excluded, the

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

area of "literature, the sciences, arts" includes all composition of words, pictorial representation, or notations
that are intelligible to any portion of the population, no
matter whether their appeal is extensive or esoteric.
Since the Postmaster General disavows the nonmailability
of the issues of the periodical he had before him and since
Congress did not qualify "literature, the sciences, arts" by
any standards of taste or edification or public elevation,
the Postmaster General exceeded his powers in denying
this periodical a second-class permit.
It seems to me important strictly to confine discussion
in this case because its radiations touch, on the one hand,
the very basis of a free society, that of the right of expression beyond the conventions of the day, and, on the
other hand, the freedom of society from constitutional
compulsion to subsidize enterprise, whether in the world
of matter or of mind. While one may entirely agree with
Mr. Justice Holmes, in Leach v. Carlile,258 U. S. 138, 140,
as to the extent to which the First Amendment forbids
control of the post so far as sealed letters are concerned,
one confronts an entirely different set of questions in considering the basis on which the Government may grant
or withhold subsidies through low postal rates, and huge
subsidies, if one is to judge by the glimpse afforded by the
present case. It will be time enough to consider such
questions when the Court cannot escape decision upon
them.

