U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
416

437

Syllabus.

that the tax, now struck down, in fact resulted in parity
of treatment between Nippert and her local competitors.
The record does not enlighten us on any of these matters.
I think that one who complains that a state tax, though
not discriminatory on its face, discriminates against interstate commerce in its actual operation should be required
to come forward with proof to sustain the charge. See
Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S.524, 534-537.
This does not, of course, require proof of the obvious.
But, as Mr. Justice Brandeis pointed out, cases of this
type should not be decided on the basis of speculation;
the special facts and circumstances will often be decisive.
Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 170-172.
Without evidence and findings we frequently can have
no "sure basis" for the informed judgment that is necessary for decision. Terminal Railroad Assn. v. Brotherhood of Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1, 8. That seems to me to
be the case here. Proof should be required to overcome
the presumptive validity of this local legislation as applied
to Nippert.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT, INC. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 44.

Argued October 11, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. A forwarder of freight for transshipment by common carriers by
water in foreign commerce, although not contractually or corporately affiliated with a common carrier by water, held to be "carrying on the business of forwarding . . . in connection with a common
carrier by water," hence an "other person subject to this Act"
within the meaning of § 1 of the Shipping Act of 1916, and therefore subject to the regulatory provisions of that Act. Pp. 441, 443.
2. The conclusion that independent forwarders are subject to the
Act's regulatory provisions is supported by the broad terms of

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

its definition of "other person subject to this Act"; by the policy
implicit in the scheme of regulation; by the legislative history; and
by the decision in Californiav. UnitedStates, 320 U. S. 577. P. 443.
3. A different conclusion is not required by the fact that the administrative agencies had not previously exercised jurisdiction over
such forwarders; nor by the history of interstate commerce legislation affecting non-water transportation; nor by judicial decisions
relating to that legislation. Pp. 454-455.
4. The fact that no question is involved of the use of forwarders by
carriers to evade regulation gives no basis for relieving independent
forwarders from the Act's provisions. P. 456.
5. The wisdom of regulating forwarders-with the corresponding
restriction of competitive freedom in the business-is a question
for Congress, not the courts. P. 457.
Reversed.

Appeal from a decree of a district court of three judges,
enjoining enforcement of an order of the Maritime Commission. See 55 F. Supp. 682. Reversed, p. 457.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr. argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor GeneralJudson,John F. Sonnett and DavidL. Kreeger.
Harold L. Allen argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States appeals from a decree entered by
a District Court of three judges permanently enjoining
enforcement of an order of the United States Maritime
Commission. The order required the appellees and
others to answer within thirty days a questionnaire concerning certain aspects of their business transacted during 1940, 1941 and 1942.' The central issue is whether
I See note 4. Jurisdiction rests on § 31 of the Shipping Act, 46
U. S. C. § 830; 28 U. S. C. §§ 47, 47a; 28 U. S. C. § 345 (4). See
California v. United States, 320 U. S. 577, 579.

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

439

Opinion of the Court.

appellees are within the coverage of the Shipping Act,
46 U. S. C. § 801, for this purpose.
On August 21, 1942, the Commission, upon its own
motion, ordered an investigation concerning the lawfulness of the rules, regulations, practices and operations
of named persons and firms, described as carrying on "the
business of forwarding in foreign commerce . ..." The
order stated that from information before the Commission
it appeared that a certain forwarding firm was engaging
in practices which seemed to be in violation of § 17 of
the Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C. § 816, and further "that
the public interest requires a general inquiry to determine
the extent of the existence of the said practices among
all other forwarders in the port of New York subject to
said Act, and the lawfulness of said practices under section 17 thereof . ...
Accordingly, the Commission sent to the persons and
firms named a questionnaire containing the inquiry,
among others, "Do you carry on the business of forwarding in connection with common carriers by water in foreign commerce?" ' Each of the appellees answered this
in the affirmative.' But negative answers were given to
the question, "Is your company owned or controlled by or
affiliated with any shippers for whom you act as forwarder
or with any common carrier?"
2 The inquiry was framed with reference to the statutory provision
immediately in issue, namely, the definition of "other person subject
to this Act" contained in § 1 of the Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C. § 801,
set forth hereinafter in the text.
8 In their complaint the appellees allege that the affirmative answers
given were erroneous and were made "without knowledge of the import of the said question or of the kind or nature of the business which
it was necessary to carry on, or the character of relationship with
a common carrier by water in foreign commerce, which it was necessary
to maintain, in order to fall within the said definition . . .."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

In December, 1942, the Commission held public hearings before a trial examiner pursuant to the investigation
order. On the second day the hearings were adjourned
sine die so that the Commission might obtain additional
information. They have not been resumed.
On January 14, 1943, the Commission entered an order,
pursuant to § 21 of the Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C. § 820,
directing appellees and others to answer a questionnaire
relating to their forwarding operations in 1940, 1941 and
1942. The answers were to be filed within thirty days.
Before this period expired appellees instituted this suit
to enjoin the carrying out of that order and the general
order of investigation. Thereafter the Commission extended the time for answering the questionnaire, and on
May 18, 1943, withdrew its order of January 14, issuing
instead another under § 21. This order, like the earlier
one, required the appellees to answer a questionnaire concerning their forwarding operations. The only difference,
apparently, was that the information sought was somewhat more extensive. The parties agreed that the suit
should be continued as against the order of May 18 without formal amendment of the complaint.
On November 30, 1943, the District Court denied the
Commission's motion for summary judgment and granted
a temporary injunction restraining execution of the May
18, 1943, order. The injunction was made permanent on
November 30, 1944.1 The court held that the Maritime
Commission had no jurisdiction over the appellees since,
in its view, they did not come within the definition of the
term "other person subject to this Act" given in § 1 of the
statute, 46 U. S. C. § 801. It refused, however, to enjoin
4The opinion of the District Court on motion for interlocutory injunction and on motion for reargument is reported in 55 F. Supp. 682.
The opinion on final judgment, which was simply an adherence to the

court's previous opinion, is not reported.

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

441

Opinion of the Court.

the order of August 21, 1942, on the ground that it had
no jurisdiction to annul an order which itself did not adversely affect the complaining parties.
The question we are to review is whether the appellees
are included within the designation "other person subject
to this Act" as that phrase is defined in § 1 of the Shipping
Act. The definition reads: "The term 'other person subject to this Act' means any person not included in the
term 'common carrier by water,' carrying on the business
of forwarding or furnishing wharfage, dock, warehouse,
or other terminal facilities in connection with a common
carrier by water." (Emphasis added.)
Substantially, the issue turns upon the meaning of
"in connection with," that is, whether some relation of
affiliation with the carrier is required, such as that exemplified in RailroadRetirement Board v. Duquesne Warehouse Co., 326 U. S. 446; or, on the other hand, the statutory phrasing is satisfied by the type of relationship illustrated by the companion cases of California v. United
States and Oakland v. United States, 320 U. S. 577.V
If, as appellees contend, "in connection with" covers
only forwarding businesses actually affiliated with a common carrier by water in a corporate sense, or under the
control of or pursuant to a continuing contract with such
a carrier, then plainly the Maritime Commission is without jurisdiction over these appellees, since none of them
is controlled by or affiliated with a common carrier by
water in any such manner. All are so-called independent
5 The agencies found subject to the Act in these cases were public
authorities. Although some continuing contractual relationship may
have existed between the state wharfinger and the carriers in the
California case, no such relation existed, except as to one pier, in
the Oakland case, a fact of which the District Court in this case
obviously was not informed, in view of its contrary statement. See
note 17.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

forwarders and the case comes down to whether such
forwarders are covered by the Act.
There is little or no dispute as to the nature of their
business. They are primarily forwarders of freight, as
that term is generally understood,' for transshipment in
foreign commerce. The foreign freight forwarding business is a medium used by almost all export shippers. An
exporter, intending to send goods abroad, consigns the
merchandise to a forwarder who then makes all the arrangements for dispatching it to a foreign port. The
forwarder must arrange for necessary space with the
steamship companies, procure and prepare the many documents, obtain permits for the acceptance of freight at
piers, and at times must find available storage space for
the shipment until steamers are available. If requested
to do so, a forwarder will secure whatever insurance is
needed.
Forwarders also have many other incidental duties.
They check the marks on shipping papers and containers
6See Place v. Union Express Co., 2 Hilt. (N. Y.) 19, 25; In re
Emerson, Marlow & Co., 199 F. 95, 97; H. Rep. No. 1682, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., 5 et seq. Cf. the definition of "freight forwarder" in
Part IV of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1002
(a) (5), discussed at a later point in this opinion.
In addition to acting as freight forwarders, the appellees also act
as freight brokers. And for their services as brokers they receive
brokerage commissions or fees from the carrier with respect to the
same shipments for which they act as forwarders.
In view of the disposition we make of the cause, we need not consider the argument made by the Government that in any case the
appellees, because they also act as freight brokers and receive compensation from the carriers, come within the Maritime Commission's
jurisdiction. Cf. In re Gulf Brokerage and Forwarding Agreements,
1 U. S. M. C. 533, 534, where it was said: "Brokers are not subject
to the Shipping Act, 1916, and consequently agreements between
carriers subject to that act and brokers are not of the character required to be filed under section 15 thereof."

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

443

Opinion of the Court.

in order to be certain that they are in accordance with
the regulations of the country of destination. They convert weights and measurements into the metric system
when necessary. They keep records, for the convenience
of the exporter, of all shipments dispatched. They also
prosecute such claims as may be required by the exporter
against carriers, insurance companies, and any other
parties in interest.
By engaging in these many activities of the forwarding
business, independent forwarders-and particularly the
appellees-act as agents of the shipper. They assume
no responsibility for the transportation of goods.
We think the appellees are within the coverage of § 1.
This conclusion is required not only by the broad and
literal wording of the definition but also to make effective
the scheme of regulation the statute established and by
considerations of policy implicit in that scheme, as well as
by the legislative history and the decision in the California
and Oakland cases, supra. In order to place the discussion of our reasons in statutory as well as factual setting,
we sketch below some of the more pertinent statutory
provisions. In doing so we shall emphasize the consequences of including or excluding so-called independent
forwarders, like the appellees, for effective administration
of the Act and achievement of its policy. But first we turn
to the definition in § 1 itself.
The language is broad and general. No intent is suggested to classify forwarders, covering some but not others,
just as none appears to divide persons "furnishing
wharfage, dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities"
into regulated and unregulated groups. California v.
United States; Oaklandv. United States, supra. The absence of any such suggestion becomes highly significant
by contrast with similar definitions of other statutes more
or less related to the Shipping Act. In these Congress,

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

when regulating carriers and "other persons," repeatedly
has made plain the intent to cover only affiliates or other
specially limited groups when this has been in fact its
purpose.
Thus, in the legislation relating to railroads, forwarders
were first covered expressly in 1942. 49 U. S. C. (Supp. V)
§ 1002 (a) (5). The definition in shortened paraphrase
is limited to any "person," other than a carrier, holding
itself out "to transport or provide transportation" which
"in the ordinary and usual course of its undertaking" (A)
performs the usual functions of a forwarder, "and (B)
assumes responsibility for the transportation of such property from point of receipt to point of destination, and (C)
utilizes, for the whole or any part of the transportation
of such shipments, the services of a carrier or carriers . . . ." (Emphasis added.) Not only would language so explicitly limited be difficult to apply to a person
not performing any part of the "transportation service"
proper, cf. Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S.
444; but the very limitations, altogether absent from § 1
of the Shipping Act, forbid identical constructions of the
two definitions. See also, in relation to the different treatment of rail forwarders, the correlated definition of "service subject to this chapter." 49 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1002
(a) (7).
The same difference applies with reference to the definitions of the term "employer" in the Railroad Retirement
Act of 1937, 45 U. S. C. § 288a, and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act of 1938, 45 U. S. C. § 351, construed in Railroad Retirement Board v. Duquesne Warehouse Co., supra. In each instance the statute declares
that "employer" shall mean "any carrier . . . and any
company" carrier-owned or controlled "and which operates any equipment or facility or performs any service . . . in connection with the transportation of pas-

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

445

Opinion of the Court.

sengers or property . . .," thus plainly setting forth as to

others covered than the carrier both the affiliation requirement and that of performing part of the transportation service.
In the face of such repeated demonstrations that Congress makes its purpose plain, when it actually intends
to limit the coverage of others than carriers to affiliates
or to persons performing part of the transportation service, the conclusion hardly is tenable that it means the
same thing when it employs more broadly inclusive language and wholly omits all such limitations. This view
is further emphasized, as will appear, by the fact that
to cut down the meaning of § 1 as appellees suggest would
be to single out the term "forwarding" from all others
in the definition and give to it a narrow application none
of them possesses.
In view of these facts, it is doubtful that the wording
of the definition is sufficiently ambiguous to require construction, more especially in view of the decisions in the
California and Oakland cases. But if room for doubt
remains, it is altogether removed by the considerations
of policy and history to which we have referred. We
turn accordingly to'the statutory setting.
In several sections, for example, §§ 15, 16, 17, 20 and
21 (pursuant to which this proceeding began), "other
persons" as well as common carriers by water either are
made subject to affirmative duties or are prohibited from
engaging in certain activities.
Section 15 ' requires filing of specified agreements or
memoranda with the Commission and exempts from the
I "Every common carrier by water, or other person subject to this
Act, shall file immediately with the board [commission] a true copy,
or, if oral, a true and complete memorandum, of every agreement
with another such carrier or other person subject to this Act, or modification or cancellation thereof, to which it may be a party or conform

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

operation of the antitrust laws arrangements made by
carriers and "other persons" among themselves or with
one another which have been filed with and approved by
in whole or in part, fixing or regulating transportation rates or fares;
giving or receiving special rates, accommodations, or other special
privileges or advantages; controlling, regulating, preventing, or destroying competition; pooling or apportioning earnings, losses, or
traffic; allotting ports or restricting or otherwise regulating the number and character of sailings between ports; limiting or regulating in
any way the volume or character of freight or passenger traffic to be
carried; or in any manner providing for an exclusive, preferential, or
cooperative working arrangement. The term 'agreement' in this section includes understandings, conferences, and other arrangements.
"The board [commission] may by order disapprove, cancel, or modify any agreement, or any modification or cancellation thereof,
whether or not previously approved by it, that it finds to be unjustly
discriminatory or unfair as between carriers, shippers, exporters, importers, or ports, or between exporters from the United States and
their foreign competitors, or to operate to the detriment of the commerce of the United States, or to be in violation of this Act, and shall
approve all other agreements, modifications, or cancellations.
"Agreements existing at the time of the organization of the board
[commission] shall be lawful until disapproved by the board [commission]. It shall be unlawful to carry out any agreement or any
portion thereof disapproved by the board [commission].
"All agreements, modifications, or cancellations made after the organization of the board [commission] shall be lawful only when and
as long as approved by the board [commission], and before approval
or after disapproval it shall be unlawful to carry out in whole or in
part, directly or indirectly, any such agreement, modification, or cancellation.
"Every agreement, modification, or cancellation lawful under this
section shall be excepted from the provisions of the Act approved
July second, eighteen hundred and ninety, entitled 'An Act to protect
trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,' and
amendments and Acts supplementary thereto, and the provisions of
sections seventy-three to seventy-seven, both inclusive, of the Act
approved August twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and ninety-four,
entitled 'An Act to reduce taxation, to provide revenue for the Gov-

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

447

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission.9 The Commission is given the power
to disapprove, cancel or modify, among others, any agreement which it finds to be unjustly discriminatory or unfair
as between carriers, shippers, exporters, importers or ports,
or between United States exporters and their foreign competitors; or to operate to the detriment of the commerce
of the United States; or to be in violation of the Act.
Obviously agreements or understandings between forwarders or between forwarders and shippers or between
forwarders and carriers may be discriminatory in such
a way as to violate the provisions of § 15. Moreover, since
forwarders arrange the terms of carriage for shippers
with carriers, they may be the active agents who bring
about the very types of agreement or arrangement the
section contemplates the Commission shall have power
and opportunity to outlaw. Consequently jurisdiction by
the Commission over forwarders would seem essential to
effectuate the policy of the Act and the absence of jurisdiction well might prevent giving full effect to that policy.
Section 16 1 forbids various forms of discrimination, as
well as other practices, on the part of any common car-,
ernment, and for other purposes,' and amendments and Acts supplementary thereto.
"Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be liable to
a penalty of $1,000 for each day such violation continues, to be recovered by the United States in a civil action." 39 Stat. 733; 46 U. S. C.
§ 814. (Emphasis added.)
8See the language of the statute, note 7 supra; and see Current
Legislation, 17 Col. L. Rev. 357, 358. It should not be necessary to
emphasize, in view of the statute's plain language, that, as is indicated,
the exemption arises not upon the mere filing of the agreement, but
only after approval by the Commission.
9"That it shall be unlawful for any shipper, consignor, consignee,
forwarder, broker, or other person, or any officer, agent, or employee
thereof, knowingly and willfully, directly or indirectly, by means of
false billing, false classification, false weighing, false report of weight,
or by any other unjust or unfair device or means to obtain or at-

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

rier by water "or other person," which an independent
forwarder readily may commit or induce. It is suggested, however, that whatever discriminations might be
practiced necessarily would be in pursuance of an agreement between a carrier and a forwarder who, it is well
to point out again, acts as agent of the shipper; and that
since Congress has given the Commission jurisdiction over
the carriers, it is to be presumed that such jurisdiction
was thought to be sufficient.
Whether or not the premise is correct, the conclusion
does not follow. That the Commission may have jurisdiction over one of the two parties to a discriminatory
agreement or arrangement hardly means that it shall not
have jurisdiction over both. Indeed, unless the juristempt to obtain transportationby water for property at less than
the rates or charges which would otherwise be applicable.
"That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier by water, or
other person subject to this Act, either alone or in conjunction with
any other person, directly or indirectly"First. To make or give any undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage to any particular person, locality, or description of
traffic in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person,
locality, or description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.
"Second. To allow any person to obtain transportation for property
at less than the regular rates or charges then established and enforced
on the line of such carrier by means of false billing, false classification,
false weighing, false report of weight, or by any other unjust or unfair
device or means.
"Third. To induce, persuade, or otherwise influence any marine
insurance company or underwriter, or agent thereof, not to give a
competing carrier by water as favorable a rate of insurance on vessel
or cargo, having due regard to the class of vessel or cargo, as is
granted to such carrier or other person subject to this Act.
"Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 for each
offense." 39 Stat. 734, as amended by 49 Stat. 1518; 46 U. S. C.
§ 815. (Emphasis added.).

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

449

Opinion of the Court.

diction includes both, it may be ineffective as to the one
covered; for the Commission then might lack the necessary means of obtaining or checking upon information
(cf. § 21) necessary to ascertain the existence of a discrimination or to take other action commanded by the
statute. Moreover, some of the practices forbidden appear to be peculiarly if not exclusively susceptible of commission or inducement by forwarders, brokers and shippers' agents, all specifically mentioned in the section.
The purpose of § 17,10 in relevant part, is to provide for
the establishment, observance and enforcement of just
and reasonable regulations and practices relating to or in
connection with the receiving, handling, storing or delivering of property. By the nature of their business, independent forwarders are intimately connected with these
various activities. Here again, unless the Commission
has jurisdiction over them, it may not be able effectively
to carry out the policy of the Act.
Section 20,11 which for the most part was copied from
§ 15 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act, forbids the
S,... Every such carrier and every other person subject to this
Act shall establish, observe, and enforce just and reasonableregulations
and practices relating to or connected with the receiving, handling,
storing, or delivering of property. Whenever the board [commission]
finds that any such regulation or practice is unjust or unreasonable
it may determine, prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable
regulation or practice." 39 Stat. 734; 46 U. S. C. § 816. (Emphasis
added.)
"1"That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier by water or
other person subject to this Act, or any officer, receiver, trustee, lessee,
agent, or employee of such carrier or person, or for any other person
authorized by such carrieror person to receive information, knowingly
to disclose to or permit to be acquired by any person other than the
shipper or consignee, without the consent of such shipper or consignee,
any information concerning the nature, kind, quantity, destination,
consignee, or routing of any property tendered or delivered to such
common carrier or other person subject to this Act for transportation

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

disclosure of confidential information by a common carrier
by water or other person,' when the information might
be used to the detriment or prejudice of a shipper or consignee, or of a carrier, or might improperly disclose his
business transactions to a competitor.
Finally, § 21, which is immediately involved in this case,
requires the filing of reports, records and documents relating to the business of persons subject to the Act.
The intimate relationship of the forwarder to both shipper and carrier, essentially that of go-between, gives him
not only unique sources of information, perhaps in its
totality available to no one else, but also unique opportunity to engage in practices which the Act contemplates
shall be subject to regulation, some of which we have emphasized in quoting the statutory provisions. The statute
throughout is drawn in very broad terms. It forbids direct
or indirect accomplishment of the outlawed acts. It
broadly covers specific practices, including false billing,
classification, weighing, and the manner of placing insurance, § 16, as well as general practices resulting in forbidden evils, §§ 15, 17, which forwarders, affiliated or
independent, are favorably placed to bring about. It
mentions forwarders specifically, not only in § 1, but elsewhere, e. g., § 16, without suggestion of distinction bein interstate or foreign commerce, which information may be used
to the detriment or prejudice of such shipper or consignee, or which
may improperly disclose his business transactions to a competitor,
or which may be used to the detriment or prejudice of any carrier;

and it shall also be unlawful for any person to solicit or knowingly
receive any such information which may be so used." 39 Stat. 735;
46 U. S. C. § 819. (Emphasis added.) Exceptions are made for disclosure in response to legal process, etc.
2 Section 15 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 15
(11), does not contain the "other person" provision. The coverage of
the two sections, however, is so broad that it probably would include
forwarders even though they were not within the coverage of other

sections.

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

451

Opinion of the Court.

tween independent and affiliated operators. To include
the latter but exclude the former would be incongruous,
not only for want of any such explicit suggestion, but because inclusion of one without the other would create a
statutory discrimination tending in time to force out the
affiliated forwarder and, with that achieved, to remove
forwarding entirely from the reach of the regulatory plan.
We do not believe that Congress had in mind such a selfdefeating scheme. Almost as well might it have exempted
all forwarders in the first place. Nor do we think the design of the Act was merely by indirection to forbid carriers
or their affiliates to act as forwarders.
The legislative history clearly supports this view, although for explicit statement it is scanty. No discussion
concerning the meaning of "any person [not a carrier]
carrying on the business of forwarding . . . in connec-

tion with a common carrier by water" appears except in
the statement of the manager of the bill in the House of
Representatives." When dealing with the breadth of the
term "other person subject to this act," he said: "Hence,
if this board [the United States Shipping Board] effectually regulates water carriers, it must also have supervision of all those incidental facilities connected with the
main carriers .

. . ."

53 Cong. Rec. 8276.

Certainly

this language is not indicative of intent to give a narrowly restricted scope to the definition's coverage. Quite
the opposite is its effect.
The more significant legislative history, however, appears in the metamorphosis which this provision of § 1
underwent during the process of enactment. A predecessor bill (H. R. 14337, 64th Cong.) worded the definition
as follows:
"The term 'other person subject to this Act' means
any person not included in the term 'common carrier

13 Representative Alexander, then Chairman of the Committee on
the Merchant Marine and Fisheries.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

by water' and carrying on the business of forwarding,
ferrying, towing, or furnishing transfer, lighterage,
dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities in or in
connection with the foreign or interstate commerce
of the United States." (Emphasis added.)
As this was revised in the bill which was enacted (H. R.
15455, 64th Cong.), two changes occurred, apart from
adding explicit mention of wharfage as among the terminal services. One was to eliminate the words "ferrying,
towing . . . transfer, lighterage." The other was to
substitute "in connection with a common carrier by water" for "in or in connection with the foreign or interstate
commerce of the United St-'2s."
Had this latter wording been retained there could not
have been the remotest basis for suggesting that independent forwarders were not covered, as there could have
been none with reference to any of the other businesses
or services mentioned. But, for a reason wholly unrelated to narrowing the class of forwarders and others not
carriers who had been included, the original concluding
phraseology was changed. That language was obviously
inexact when applied, as the Shipping Act did apply, to
carriage by water and incidental activities. Taken literally, the broad wording would have included forwarders and others furnishing terminal facilities in connection
with shipments by rail. Obviously it was to eliminate
this incongruity, and not to constrict the classes of "other
persons" previously enumerated, that this change was
made.
That it had no other purpose appears, moreover, from
the elimination of "ferrying, towing . . . transfer, lighterage," which shows that when Congress wished to cut
down the classes originally covered it did so attentively
and explicitly. These eliminated persons were included
originally, along with forwarders and others, not simply

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

453

Opinion of the Court.

to reach affiliates of carriers, but broadly to provide "for
equal treatment to all shippers and water carriers by
transfer and lighterage concerns when forming a link in
interstate or foreign commerce." 14 (Emphasis added.)
Nothing in the hearings, the committee reports, or the
debates, upon the original or the substituted bills, 5 suggests either an original intention to restrict to carrier
affiliates the coverage of forwarders or other furnishers
of terminal or "link" service or a later intention to change
the initial broad coverage by so restricting it. Silence so
complete cannot be taken as the voice of change. The
original congressional purpose clearly was to reach all who
carry on the specified activities, whether in or out of affiliation with a carrier. That purpose remained unaltered
by anything which took place in the course of transition
from the first to the final form in which the bill was
enacted.
Indeed, we held as much in the cases of Californiav.
United States and Oakland v. United States, supra. The
decision was that the Commission has jurisdiction over
state and municipally owned businesses furnishing terminal facilities. The ruling would include a fortiori pri14H. Rep. No. 659, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., 32. It is true that no
comparable explicit statement appears concerning forwarding or terminal activities. But in the absence of distinguishing language, the
original coverage of "ferrying,

towing ...

transfer, lighterage"

hardly can be taken to have been broader, as respects affiliation, than
"forwarding or furnishing wharfage, dock, warehouse, or other
terminal facilities .

. . .";

and the elimination of the former cannot

be said to have restricted the latter in this respect or, in view of the
decision in the California and Oakland cases, to have singled out forwarding alone for such restriction.
15Hearings on H. R. 14337 before the House Committee on the
Merchant Marine and Fisheries, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; Hearings on
H. R. 15455 before the Senate Subcommittee on Commerce, 64th
Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No. 659, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; S. Rep. No.
689, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

vately owned independent businesses of the same type.
It would be a strange reading of the "other person" provision if forwarders alone, were required to be affiliated in
order to come within its terms, all others covered in both
the original and the final forms of the legislative proposals
being either independent or affiliated. Yet this is, in
effect, appellees' exact contention and the view taken by
the District Court. As has been noted,16 that court misconceived the facts in the Oakland case and thus perhaps,
at the time of entry of its final order, the full scope and
effect of our decision. 7 At any rate, since Congress has
indicated no intention to single out forwarders for regulation only when they are affiliated with a carrier, while at
the same time broadly covering terminal operators and
others, we are not free to inject such a distinction.
What has been said disposes of the principal contentions and issues. Appellees however offer other arguments, founded chiefly in the absence of prior established administrative practice,' but also in the history
16 See note 5.
The District Court's opinion, 55 F. Supp. 682, was filed November
30, 1943, and refers to the California case, but it makes no reference
to the Oakland case, although both were then pending here. The
court's further opinion, filed March 8, 1944, upon the motion for reargument, makes no reference to either of these cases. The findings
of fact and conclusions of law were filed November 30, 1944, and judgment was entered the same day, nearly eleven months after our decision in the California and Oakland cases had been announced on
January 3, 1944. As has been stated, see note 5, in the Oakland case,
except in one instance, there was no showing of affiliation with a carrier, whether by continuing agreement or otherwise.
18 It is pointed out that until the present proceeding neither the
United States Maritime Commission nor its predecessor, the United
States Shipping Board, attempted to exercise jurisdiction over forwarders such as the appellees. See, however, Fifth Annual Report of
the United States Shipping Board, p. 75; Seventeenth Annual Report
of the United States Shipping Board, p. 10. It is not to be inferred
however that either of those bodies held the view that they were with1

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

455

Opinion of the Court.

of interstate commerce legislation affecting nonwater
transportation and in decisions relating to that legislation.' We regard these considerations as inapposite to
the problem raised by this case in connection with the
quite different wording, coverage, history and, to some
extent, policy of the Shipping Act, for reasons already set
forth in part and for others briefly indicated in the marginal notes attached to this paragraph."
out such jurisdiction or that, if either did, that fact would be conclusive. An administrative agency is not ordinarily under an obligation immediately to test the limits of its jurisdiction. It may await
an appropriate opportunity or clear need for doing so. It may also
be mistaken as to the scope of its authority. Cf. Social Security
Board v. Nierotko, 327 U. S. 358.
Although failure to exercise power may be significant as a factor
shedding light on whether it has been conferred, see Federal Trade
Commission v. Bunte Bros., 312 U. S. 349, that fact alone neither
extinguishes power granted nor establishes that the agency to which
it is given regards itself as impotent. The present case, by virtue
of differences from that of Bunte Bros. relating to the clarity and
definiteness of the statute's terms, the policy of the Act, and the
legislative history, is one which falls within the pronouncement:
"Authority actually granted by Congress of course cannot evaporate
through lack of administrative exercise." 312 U. S. at 352.
19 Appellees strongly urge that this case is governed by the construction of the phrase "in connection with transportation" in the
Interstate Commerce Act, cited and discussed in the text above (see
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444), and for this
view rely upon United States Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co.,
284 U. S.474, 481, which held that the Shipping Act and the Interstate Commerce Act, "each in its own field, should have like interpretation, application and effect." As we have stated, the phrase
"connected with transportation," in the entirely different setting of
the Interstate Commerce Act, is so dissimilar in terms and setting
to the phrase "in connection with a common carrier by water" as
used in the Shipping Act that the interpretation of the former cannot
be controlling in determining the meaning of the latter.
2 Appellees' contentions that'there was no evidence to support a
finding by the Commission that they were engaged in the business
of forwarding "in connection with" a common carrier by water and

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

It remains only to notice the further objections that the
case does not involve the use of forwarders by carriers to
evade regulations applicable to carriers; and that to hold
independent forwarders "subject to this Act" will bring
them under its regulatory provisions, in other words, will
make them "subject to this Act."
Needless to repeat, it is precisely because we think the
latter effect is required by the considerations already set
forth that our conclusion has been reached. Moreover,
support for it is given by. the very terms of the specific
regulatory provisions cited to contradict it, as we have
pointed out."' The ground need not be traversed again.
The cited provisions, like § 1, are broad and general. They
strike at evils as likely to be perpetrated by independent
forwarders as by any of the "other persons" admittedly
covered by the Act. They afford no suggestion of application narrowed to affiliated forwarders or of other distinction between them and independent forwarders, such
as invariably and in the clearest terms Congress has stated
whenever it has dealt with forwarders by land.
The common sense of all this, of course, is that Congress
knew what it was about in both instances. We cannot
ignore its repeated demonstrations of that fact. To do
so would be to rewrite the statute, injecting limitations
of affiliation no more rightfully within our function than
inserting others of physical participation in the transportation service proper or of financial responsibility for it.
These admittedly cannot go in, although there would
be as much warrant for adding them as for putting in
affiliation.
that the District Court erroneously refused to set aside the order of
1942, are founded in their view that the Act requires

August 21,

affiliation. For this and other reasons it is not necessary to consider
them further.
21 See notes 7, 9, 10, and discussion in the text.

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

FRANKFURTER,

457

J., dissenting.

Statutes may be emasculated as readily and as much
by unauthorized restricted reading as by one unduly expansive. And the wisdom of the regulation of forwarders
with the corresponding restriction of competitive freedom
in the business is the concern of Congress, not of this
Court. We leave the statute as Congress enacted it.
It is inherent in the view we take of the statute that
more is involved than merely a carrier's attempt to immunize itself against the Act's penalties by using a forwarder to evade the regulations made binding on carriers. In that respect forwarderb are obviously no different from other persons, for the Act does not permit such
evasion by a carrier whether through the use of forwarders
or any other persons. What is more important is that the
Act is designed and in terms undertakes not only to prevent such evasion by carriers through denying them immunity when they hide behind forwarders; it also denies
immunity to the forwarders themselves when they commit the acts or practices carriers and others subject to the
Act are forbidden to perform.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissenting, with whom MR.
and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur.

JUSTICE BLACK

It is important to keep in mind what this case is not.
It does not involve the power of the Maritime Commission to obtain from a forwarder all information relevant
to any inquiry by the Commission, based on complaints
of violations of the Shipping Act or on its own motion.
Section 27 of that Act gives the Commission such subpoena powers and subjects every person, forwarder or

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

not, to testimonial compulsion. 39 Stat. 728, 737, 46
U. S. C. § 826. Nor does the case involve the attempt
of a carrier to use a forwarder as a means of evading the
regulations by which water carriers are controlled. By
no such indirection can a carrier immunize itself against
the Act's penalties. Compare Lehigh Valley R. Co. v.
United States, 243 U. S. 444.
The case is this. The business of these appellees is to
negotiate on behalf of shippers for shipping space and to
make the necessary administrative arrangements for the
carriage of goods. They have no part in the physical
process of moving goods. They have no corporate, physical, or financial tie with the carriers. The sole question
here is whether such business has been brought under the
regulatory scheme of the Act. The Commission contends
that they are "persons subject to the Act." If the Commission is correct, these forwarders would have to submit
all sorts of agreements with carriers and with other forwarders to the Commission for approval (39 Stat. 733,
46 U. S. C. § 814), whereupon such agreements may be
freed from the restrictions of the Sherman Law; they
would be required to maintain uniform rates (39 Stat.
734, 46 U. S. C. § 815); they would be subject to the
Commission's supervision insofar as their activities involved practices pertaining to the handling and care of
shipments (39 Stat. 734, 46 U. S. C. § 816); they would
have to file reports and business records called for by the
Commission (39 Stat. 736, 46 U. S. C. § 820) ; they would
be subject to the Commission's power to award reparations for violations of the Act (39 Stat. 736, 46 U. S. C.
§ 821); and they would be liable to heavy penalties (39
Stat. 734, 736, 738, 40 Stat. 900, 902, 46 U. S. C. §§ 815,
820, 831, 839).
The Shipping Act has been on the statute books since
1916. Yet not until 1942 did the agency charged with

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

FRANKFURTER,

459

J., dissenting.

the duty of enforcing the Act deem forwarders of this
type to be covered by it. The scope of its legislation is,
of course, for Congress to determine and not for the enforcing agency. Inaction, no matter how consistent and
long-continued, cannot contract the reach of a statute.
But much has properly been said about the important
significance which attaches to the meaning given a statute
by those whose duty it is to enforce it and who are deemed
especially equipped to breathe life into inert language.
Just as assumption of jurisdiction by an administrative
agency for a long period of time goes a long way to prove
that powers exercised were impliedly given, see United
States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, a consistent and
unexplained failure to exercise power not obviously conferred by legislation may be equally persuasive that the
power claimed was never conferred. It is not to be presumed that for decades officials were either ignorant of
the duties with which Congress charged them or derelict
in their enforcement.
A consideration of the language of the legislation in its
proper setting makes it abundantly clear that the failure
of the Commission and its predecessor for more than
twenty-five years to exercise the authority which it now
claims was due neither to ignorance nor to indifference.
The explanation that would spontaneously occur to one
for such administrative practice is, I believe, the right
one: the power was not exercised because Congress did
not grant it.
It is a fair generalization that Congress has never supplanted the forces of competition by administrative regulation until a real evil had, in the opinion of Congress,
manifested the need for it. One turns in vain to the Congressional investigation which led to the Shipping Act,
to the hearings on the bills which became that Act, to the
reports on which it was based, to the experience under the

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

Act since its inception, as reflected in the reports of the
Maritime Commission and its predecessor the Shipping
Board, for any indication that the business of independent
forwarders, like those in this case, was so conducted as to
make their regulation appropriate either to curb practices themselves inimical to the public interest or to render
effective the regulation of water carriers.
The Commission's claim of jurisdiction must rest on
construction of the phrase "business of forwarding . . .
in connection with a common carrier by water." 39 Stat.
728, 46 U. S. C. § 801. Whatever the "business of forwarding" may here mean, effect must be given to the
qualifying phrase "in connection with a common carrier
by water." If it is left without any appropriate function
unless these independent forwarders are covered, it must
be applied to them. But if ample scope can be given to
the phrase without attributing to Congress such a sudden
assumption of authority over independent forwarders
although no need for taking such control had been revealed, we should avoid undue extension of language as
part of our duty to give fair meaning to what Congress
has said.
Abstractly it may be argued that "forwarding" was
intended to cover only those activities which included
the physical transportation or movement of goods from
one place to another. Cf. e. g., H. R. 9089, 9090, 9888,
76th Cong., 3d Sess. (1940); S. 3665, 3666, 4096, 76th
Cong., 3d Sess. (1940). Support for such a restrictive
meaning might be drawn from the fact that the "other
persons" subject to the Act were those concerned with
the physical handling of the goods. But such a construction would disregard the purpose of the statute. Again,
the term may be said to cover only those businesses in
which the forwarder assumes the liability for safe shipment of the goods from point of shipment to their desti-

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
437

FRANKFURTER,

461

J., dissenting.

nation. Cf. 56 Stat. 284, 49 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 1002
(a) (5) (B). Such a construction likewise does not harmonize with the aims of the statute. The most natural
meaning of "forwarding" includes the business in which
these appellees engage, namely, the rendering of administrative and brokerage services. Cf. H. R. Rep. No. 1682,
77th Cong., 2d Sess. (1942).
But Congress did not regulate "forwarders"; it regulated the "business of forwarding . . . in connection with
a common carrier by water." When, then, is forwarding
"in connection with a common carrier by water"? That
term may mean a business or financial connection; it may
mean a physical connection, i. e., the mutual handling of
goods; it may mean both. Or it may mean any share in
the process of offering of goods for water shipment. This
last construction would mean that the restriction could
have been included only for the purpose of excluding forwarders like these but concerned with shipment by rail.
Such is the Commission's essential argument, that the
phrase is merely a saving clause against its application to
forwarders dealing with land carriers. To suggest that
such a roundabout method was used for the purpose of
saying that this statute was not impliedly intended as an
amendment to the familiar Interstate Commerce Act, 24
Stat. 379, 49 U. S. C. § 1, amendments to which have always been designated as such, the administration of which
was vested with a different Commission, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and the subject matter of which
was completely distinguishable in the very titles of the
statutes, is to attribute a fanciful abundance of caution,
and less than common sense to the draughtsman. If every
forwarder dealing with water carriers was to be covered
by the Act, the obvious way of covering them would have
been simply to say "forwarders" without qualification.
The Commission really asks us to disregard the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

courts to give effect to every phrase used by Congress.
The construction which is now accepted means that "in
connection with a common carrier by water" are perfectly
superfluous words and are to be deleted.
Significance must be given to the qualification. What
more reasonable than to hold that this phrase means those
forwarders who are so closely tied to the business of the
water carrier, by corporate, financial, or physical union,
as to make regulation of them appropriate in order to
control effectively the carriers with which they are affiliated? Such a forwarder is really a part of the process of
carrying. Here the forwarders are closely connected not
with the carrier but with the shipper.
That such construction respects Congressional purpose
is reinforced by Congressional action regarding forwarders
dealing with land carriers. When Congress, in 1942, first
regulated such land-carrier forwarders, 56 Stat. 284, 49
U. S. C., Supp. V, § 1001, forwarders, having the same
functions in relation to land traffic as these appellees do
in relation to water-borne traffic, were not included. And
yet it is argued that Congress thirty years ago asserted
control over such forwarders concerned with water-borne
traffic and forbade ordinary competition among them,
though no basis in experience can account for such action
by Congress.
California v. United States, 320 U. S.577, involved a
totally different situation. That case was concerned with
wharves-facilities physically connected with water carriers. These were just as much the agents of the carrier
as of the shipper; they formed an integral part of the
carrier's business. As a matter of physical fact, the "connection" of these forwarders to a carrier is very different
from the "connection" of wharf facilities to the carrier.
Awareness of that fact was demonstrated by the specific
omission, in the California opinion, of the term "for-

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
437

Syllabus.

warder" in considering whether port facilities were "connected" with water carriers. See California v. United
States, supra, at 586. The difference in fact and in business relation between the forwarders' "connection" in this
case, constituting merely an aspect of the shipper-carrier
relationship, and the "connection" in the Californiacase,
which normally involves a close business tie with the carrier, is vital and should be observed in applying a section
in which Congress dealt compendiously with various enterprises outside of, but related to, the regulated functions
of water carriers.
BOUTELL ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS F. J. BOUTELL
SERVICE CO., v. WALLING, WAGE AND HOUR
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued October 9, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. Employees of a garage who are engaged exclusively in repairing
and maintaining vehicles of a single interstate motor carrier come
within the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 466.
2. They are not engaged in a "service establishment the greater part
of whose . . . servicing is in intrastate commerce" within the ex-

emption provided by § 13 (a) (2) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. P. 467.
3. Nor do they come within § 13 (b) (1) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act exempting "any employee with respect to whom the Interstate
Commerce Commission has power to establish qualifications and
maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of Section
204 of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935," since their employer is not
a carrier. P. 467.
4. The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish
maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of § 204
of the Motor Carrier Act (Part II of the Interstate Commerce
Act) is limited to employees of "carriers." P. 467.
5. Administrative interpretations of the Fair Labor Standards Act
by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the De-

