OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

Utah is otherwise a "court of competent jurisdiction" is
not gainsaid. How could the State include the United
States District Court in its consent to be sued in a "court
of competent jurisdiction" short of stating explicitly that a
"court of competent jurisdiction" shall include the federal
courts? The opinion does not say that nothing short of
such specific authorization to sue in the federal court gives
the State's consent to be sued there. But if such a formal
requirement be the meaning of the present decision, it
runs counter to a long course of adjudication and pays undue )obeisance to a doctrine, that of governmental immunity from suit, which, whatever claims it may have,
does not have the support of any principle of justice.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR ET AL. V.
WATSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 448. Argued February 8, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
1. Section 24 (8) of the Judicial Code, granting federal district courts
jurisdiction of all "suits and proceedings arising under any law
regulating commerce," applies to a suit seeking to protect rights
asserted under the National Labor Relations Act. P. 589.
2. Section 266 of the Judicial Code, providing that only a three-judge
court may issue an interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining "the enforcement, operation, or execution of any statute of a
State," applies to a suit in a federal court to enjoin the enforcement
of a provision of a state constitution. P. 591.
(a) The policy underlying § 266 admits no distinction between
state action to enforce a constitutional provision and state action
to enforce an act of the legislature. P. 592.
(b) The word "statute" in § 266 is a compendious summary of
various enactments, by whatever method they may be adopted, to
which a State gives her sanction and is at least sufficiently inclusive
to embrace constitutional provisions. P. 592.
3. Where a state attorney general has construed a provision of the
state constitution as outlawing all closed-shop agreements with

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

583

Syllabus.

labor unions, has ordered law enforcement agencies to enforce it
by criminal prosecution of labor unions, their officers and agents,
and of employers having closed-shop agreements, and has threatened and actually instituted quo warranto proceedings to cancel
franchises of corporations having and observing closed-shop agreements with labor unions, the situation involves a threat of "irreparable injury which is clear and imminent," so as to justify a
federal court of equity in interfering with the enforcement of the
state law, notwithstanding § 267 of the Judicial Code forbidding
the maintenance of suits in equity in the federal courts "in any
case where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at
law." P. 593.
(a) The disruption in collective bargaining which would be occasioned by holding closed-shop agreements illegal would be so
serious as to make it futile to attempt to measure the loss in money
damages and any remedy at law in the federal courts would be
inadequate. P. 594.
(b) The announcement of the state attorney general of a policy
to prosecute criminally all violators of the law involved and the
actual institution of quo warranto proceedings against several corporations having closed-shop agreements make the threat real and
imminent. P. 594.
(c) The allegation that there is an imminent threat to an entire
system of collective bargaining which, if carried through, will have
such repercussions on the relationship between capital and labor
as to cause irreparable damage states a cause of action in equity.
P. 595.
4. However, in such a situation, the federal district court should not
pass on the merits of the controversy until the state constitutional
provision has been authoritatively construed by the state courts.
Pp. 595-599.
(a) If it is construed so as to eliminate any conflict with the
National Labor Relations Act, one of the constitutional questions
alleged to exist in this case will disappear. P. 598.
(b) If it is construed as doing no more than to grant an individual
working man a cause of action if he is denied employment unless
he joins a union or to make closed-shop agreements unenforceable
between the parties, no case or controversy raising the due process
question would be presented by this suit, in which no individual
working man is asserting rights against unions or employers and
no union is seeking to enforce a closed-shop agreement against an
employer. P. 598.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

327 U. S.

(c) If it is construed nbt to be self-executing, suits seeking to
raise any constitutional question would be premature until the
State supplies sanctions for its enforcement. P. 598.
5. In such circumstances, the district court should retain the bill
until a definite determination of the local law questions can be
made by the state courts. P. 599.
6. Notwithstanding the fact that one of the principal grounds asserted for equitable relief is the continuance of litigation in the
state courts, the purpose of a suit to enjoin enforcement of the
state law will not be defeated by retaining the bill pending determination of proceedings in the state courts, since the resources
of equity are not inadequate to deal with the problem so as to
avoid unnecessary friction with state policies while selective cases
go forward in the state courts for an orderly and expeditious adjudication of the state law questions. P. 599.
60 F. Supp. 1010, reversed and the cause remanded.

Appellants sued to enjoin enforcement of a provision
of the Florida constitution (quoted in the opinion) on
the ground that it violated the First Amendment, Fourteenth Amendment, and the Contract Clause of Article I,
§ 10 of the Federal Constitution and was in conflict with
the National Labor Relations Act and the NorrisLaGuardia Act.
A district judge granted a temporary restraining order
and caused a three-judge court to be convened pursuant
to § 266 of the Judicial Code.
The district court concluded that it had jurisdiction of
the controversy; but, without determining whether there
was equity in the bill or whether the case should be held
until an authoritative interpretation of the Florida law
by the courts could first be obtained, proceeded at once
to a consideration of the constitutional questions. It held
that the Florida law did not violate the First or Fourteenth
Amendment or the Contract Clause of Article I, § 10 of
the Federal Constitution and that it would be time to consider any conflict with the National Labor Relations Act
if and when it arose, since that Act and the Florida law
did not on their face appear to be in conflict. It accord-

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

ingly vacated the temporary restraining order and dismissed the bill. 60 F. Supp. 1010.
Reversed and remanded, with directions to retain the
bill pending determination of proceedings in the state
courts in conformity with the opinion of this Court.
P. 599.
Herbert S. Thatcher argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were Joseph A. Padway, Edward
J. Brown, Pat Whitaker and Tom Whitaker.
J. Tom Watson, Attorney General of Florida, Sumter
Leitner and Howard S. Bailey, Assistant Attorneys General, argued the cause and filed a brief for appellees. Ray
C. Brown filed a motion to dismiss for the Cigar Manufacturers Association of Tampa, appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1944 Florida adopted an amendment to her Constitution 'which reads as follows:
"The right of persons to work shall not be denied or
abridged on account of membership or non-membership in any labor union, or labor organization; provided, that this clause shall not be construed to deny
or abridge the right of employees by and through a
labor organization or labor union to bargain collectively with their employer."
Shortly thereafter this suit was instituted to enjoin the
enforcement of that provision on the ground that it violated the First Amendment, Fourteenth Amendment, and
the Contract Clause of Article I, § 10 of the Federal Constitution and was in conflict with the National Labor
IThe amendment, designated as House Joint Resolution No. 13,
was passed by the regular session of the legislature in 1943 (L. 1943, p.
1134) and was ratified by the people at the general election held on
November 7, 1944.

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Relations Act (49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. § 151) and the
Norris-LaGuardia Act. 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C. § 101.
The appellants (plaintiffs below) are various national
and local labor organizations operating in Florida, individual employee members of those organizations who are
citizens of the United States, and three employers doing
business in Florida.' Appellees are the Attorney General
and other officials of Florida charged with duties of law
enforcement and various employers.8 The theory of the
bill is that the law in question outlaws any agreement
which requires membership in a labor organization as a
condition of employment, all of which we refer to herein
as the closed shop. It is alleged that the appellant labor
organizations or their affiliates have been designated as
the collective bargaining representatives of employees of
numerous employers in Florida and that a large number
of those local and national unions either have,' or desire
McCloskey & Co., a Delaware corporation in the business of building ships at Tampa, Florida; R. J. Gould, engaged in general welding
and structural steel building work in Tampa, Florida, and doing business under the name of Gould Welding &Erecting Co.; Tampa Florida
Brewery, Inc., a Florida corporation, engaged in the brewery business
at Tampa, Florida.
3Tampa Shipbuilding Co. and St. Johns River Shipbuilding Co.,
Florida corporations, engaged in the building and construction of ships
at Florida ports; Weir's Dry Cleaners & Laundry, Inc., a Florida corporation, engaged in the dry cleaning and laundry business in Tampa,
Florida; National Container Corp., a Florida corporation, manufacturing paper containers in Jacksonville, Florida; Cigar Manufacturers
Assoc. of Tampa, a voluntary association of Tampa cigar manufacturers.
These parties were joined as defendants because they had collective
bargaining agreements with various of appellant labor organizations.
They are called nominal defendants since no relief was sought against
them.
' It is alleged that some of these agreements are for periods of one
year with automatic renewal clauses for additional one-year periods,
2

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

or are about to become parties to, closed-shop agreements
with Florida employers. It is alleged that the closed-shop
agreement constitutes the most effective means possessed
by organized labor to attain economic security, to deter
practices destructive of public policy and the interests of
wage earners, and effectively to bargain collectively. It
is alleged that all of the defendant employers and two of
the three plaintiff employers are parties to closed-shop
agreements with some of the appellant unions which expire
at various dates in the year 1945 and thereafter continue
in effect on a year-to-year basis. These contracts are alleged to be valuable property rights of the appellant unions
and their members. It is alleged that one appellant employer (R. J. Gould) and some of the appellant unions are
desirous of entering into closed-shop agreements but are
prevented from doing so by the Florida law. It is alleged
that the same problem obtains with respect to other employers in Florida.
The bill alleges that appellee law enforcement officials
have taken the position that closed-shop agreements violate the Florida law and that they intend to enforce compliance with it by civil and criminal proceedings. The bill
alleges that appellee Watson threatens to institute quo
warranto proceedings against various companies with
whom appellant unions have collective bargaining agreements containing closed-shop agreements, whereby it will
be sought to cancel their corporate franchises unless the
others for periods of years up to five, some for the duration of the
war, and others for periods about to expire.
The constitutions of some of the appellant unions require that all
persons who desire to obtain or retain memberships in the unions shall
work only with union members.
It is alleged that membership in appellant unions is open to all who
can meet the requirements of skill prescribed for the work, who will
submit to the discipline and by-laws of the unions, and who are of
good character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

closed-shop provisions of the agreements are not observed.
And appellants' motion for a restraining order alleges that
quo warranto proceedings have been instituted for that
purpose against a number of such companies, including
three of the corporate appellees. The bill further alleges
that appellee Watson, has threatened appellant unions
and their officers and agents and the individual appellants
with criminal prosecutions unless they give up the closedshop agreements and refrain from renewing or entering
into any such agreements. It alleges that he has ordered
law enforcement agencies to institute such prosecutions
immediately and that they are in process of being
prepared.
Irreparable injury is alleged as follows: the threatened
actions (a) will result in interminable litigation and multiplicity of prosecutions and legal proceedings; (b) will
cause widespread disruption of employment relations and
production; (c) will deprive appellants of the benefits of
existing contracts; (d) will cause appellant unions to lose
present and prospective members and imperil the security
of the unions and their members; (e) will make it impossible for one of the appellant employers (R. J. Gould)
to obtain sufficient skilled labor to conduct his business;
and (f) will cause a cessation of collective bargaining relations between the appellant unions and employers and
will result in the disorganization and disintegration of the
unions.
The prayer was for a temporary and permanent injunction. A motion to dismiss was made which, though denying a showing of irreparable daniage, raised no issue of
fact, other than the question whether the amount involved
in the controversy exceeds $3,000.
The district judge granted a temporary restraining order
and pursuant to a prayer of the bill caused a three-judge
court to be convened. § 266 Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 380. The District Court concluded that it had juris-

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

diction of the controversy. But without determining
whether there was equity in the bill (Douglas v. Jeannette,
319 U. S. 157, 162-163) or whether, pursuant to the rule
of Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496;
Chicago v. FieldcrestDairies,316 U. S. 168; Spector Motor
Co. v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101, the case should be held
until an authoritative interpretation of the Florida law by
the Florida courts could first be obtained, it proceeded at
once to a consideration of the constitutional questions.
It held that this Florida law did not violate the First or
Fourteenth Amendment nor the Contract Clause of Article I, § 10 of the Federal Constitution. It held that it
would be time to consider any conflict with the National
Labor Relations Act if and when it arose, since that Act
and the Florida law did not on their faces appear to be in
conflict. It accordingly vacated the temporary restraining order and dismissed the complaint. 60 F. Supp. 1010.
The case is here on appeal.
The initial question is whether the District Court had
jurisdiction as a federal court to hear and decide the
merits.' The federal district courts have jurisdiction of all
suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity where
the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest
and costs, $3,000 and "arises under the Constitution or
laws of the United States . . ." Judicial Code § 24 (1),
28 U. S. C. § 41 (1). The allegations are that if the
Florida law becomes effective there will be an immediate
decrease in the membership of appellant unions and the
dues collected by them will decrease far in excess of
$3,000. Similar allegations are made to the effect that enforcement of the Florida law will result in such decimation of the membership of these unions, both local and
national, as to cause reduction in income greatly in excess
The case has not been argued on the merits here, as we limited the
argument, when we noted probable jurisdiction, to jurisdictional
questions.
5

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

of $3,000 jeopardizing the ability of the unions to function. Supporting affidavits were filed by a union official
showing that appellant unions have about 500 contracts
with Florida employers containing closed-shop agreements and affecting about 100,000 employees; and
averring that if those contracts are nullified the loss in
dues will greatly exceed $3,000, with resulting injury
to the unions far in excess of that amount. The
answer of one of the appellees, the sheriff of Hillsborough
County, admitted that the matter in controversy exceeded
$3,000. But, as we have said, the motion to dismiss filed
by appellee Watson challenged the showing of the necessary jurisdictional amount. No counter affidavits, however, were filed. The District Court held it had jurisdiction under § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code. None of the
parties challenges that finding here. The District Court
also held that it had jurisdiction under § 24 (14) of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (14). That provision'
gives the district courts of the United States jurisdiction
over suits brought under the Civil Rights Act ' without
allegation of any jurisdictional amount. See Hague v.
C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Douglas v. Jeannette, supra, pp.
SIt provides that the district courts shall have original jurisdiction
"Of all suits at law or in equity authorized by law to be brought by
any person to redress the deprivation, under color of any law, statute,
ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State, of any right,
privilege, or immunity, secured by the Constitution of the United
States, or of any right secured by any law of the United States providing for equal rights of citizens of the United States, or of all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States."
7
See. 1 of the Civil Rights Act of April 20, 1871, 17 Stat. 13, has been
continued without substantial change as R. S. § 1979, 8 U. S. C. § 43,
which reads as follows: "Every person who, under color of any statute,
ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory,
subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or
other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any
rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws,
shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity,
or other proper proceeding for redress."

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

161-162. We do not pass on the question whether the District Court had jurisdiction under § 24 (1) or § 24 (14) of
the Judicial Code. For it is the view of a majority of the
Court that jurisdiction is found in § 24 (8) of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (8), which grants the federal district
courts jurisdiction of all "suits and proceedings arising
under any law regulating commerce." As we have said,
the bill alleges a conflict between the Florida law and the
National Labor Relations Act. The theory of the bill is
that labor unions, certified as collective bargaining representatives of employees under that Act, are granted as a
matter of federal law the right to use the closed-shop agreement 8 or, alternatively, that the right of collective bargaining granted by that Act includes the right to bargain
collectively for a closed shop. Whether that claim is correct is a question which goes to the merits. It is, however,
a substantial one. And since the right asserted is derived
from or recognized by a federal law regulating commerce,
a majority of the Court conclude that a suit to protect it
against impairment by state action is a suit "arising under"
a federal law "regulating commerce." Cf. Mulford v.
Smith, 307 U. S.38,46; Peyton v. Railway Express Agency,
316 U. S. 350; Parkerv. Brown, 317 U. S. 341,349; Tunstall
v. Brotherhood of Firemen,323 U. S.210, 213.
Another preliminary question is whether this is a proper
case for a three-judge court. The statute provides that
only a three-judge court may issue an interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining "the enforcement, oper8

Sec. 8 (3) of that Act provides that "nothing in this Act .. .or
in any other statute of the United States, shall preclude an employer
from making an agreement with a labor organization (not established,
maintained, or assisted by any action defined in this Act as an unfair
labor practice) to require as a condition of employment membership
therein, if such labor organization is the representative of the employees as provided in section 9 (a), in the appropriate collective
bargaining unit covered by such agreement when made,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ation, or execution of any statute of a State by restraining
the action of any officer of such State in the enforcement
or execution of such statute . . ." § 266 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 380. The question is whether within
the meaning of that section "statute" is restricted to legislative enactments or includes provisions of state constitutions as well. It is sometimes used to embrace all enactments, however adopted, to which a State gives the force
of law. See Stevens v. Griffith, 111 U.S. 48, 50. In speaking of § 266 we recently said,
"To bring this procedural device into play-to dislocate the normal operations of the system of lower
federal courts and thereafter to come directly to this
Court-requires a suit which seeks to interpose the
Constitution against enforcement of a state policy,
whether such policy is defined in a state constitution
or in an ordinary statute or through the delegated
legislation of an 'administrative board or commission.'
The crux of the business is procedural protection
against an improvident state-wide doom by a federal
court of a state's legislative policy. This was the aim
of Congress and this is the reconciling principle of the
cases."
Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S. 246, 251. And see
Sterling v. Constantin,287 U. S. 378, 393. It would, as the
court below stated, be somewhat incongruous to hold that
a single judge, while prohibited from enjoining action under an act of the state legislature, would be free to act if
the state constitution alone were involved. The policy
underlying § 266 admits no distinction between state action to enforce a constitutional provision and state action
to enforce an act of the legislature. There is no suggestion
in the history of § 266 that Congress was willing to give
the federal courts a freer hand when state 'constitutional
provisions were involved. In our view the word "statute"
in § 266 is a compendious summary of various enactments,
by whatever method they may be adopted, to which a

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

593

Opinion of the Court.

State gives her sanction and is at least sufficiently inclusive
to embrace constitutional provisions.
But even though a district court has authority to hear
and decide the case on the merits, it should not invoke its
powers unless those who seek its aid have a cause of action
in equity. Douglasv. Jeannette,supra, pp. 162-163. The
power of a court of equity to act is a discretionary one.
Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185. Where a
federal court of equity is asked to interfere with the enforcement of state laws, it should do so only "to prevent
irreparable injury which is clear and imminent ..."
Douglas v. Jeannette, supra, p. 163; Spielman Motor Co.
v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire Ins.
Assn., 296 U. S. 64; Watson v. Buck, 313 U. S. 387.
That is a strict test. But we think appellants satisfy it.
We reach that conclusion on the basis of the allegations
concerning the disruption of the collective bargaining
processes and the injury to the unions and to the employers
alike, if the closed-shop agreement is outlawed. As we
have said, it is averred that there are about 500 contracts
with Florida employers containing closed-shop agreements
and affecting about 100,000 employees. Each contract is
affected if the closed-shop agreement is held unlawful.
Some of those contracts have expired and it is desired to
renew them. Others are sought to be negotiated. Thus,
in case of plaintiff, R. J. Gould, it is alleged that although
he is anxious and willing to enter into such a contract, he
is prevented from doing so by the threats of appellees. As
a result, it is alleged, he is and has been unable to secure
sufficient skilled labor to conduct his business. It is alleged that there are numerous other situations of the same
character. And it is shown that one employer, against
whom quo warranto proceedings have been instituted, already has given notice of the suspension of the closed-shop
agreement which it had with one of the appellant unions.
Allegations are made that outlawry of closed-shop agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ments will cause a disruption in production and the decimation of union membership. It is fair to say on a reading
of the bill that from the viewpoint both of the appellant
unions and the appellant employers the disruption in collective bargaining which would be occasioned by holding
closed-shop agreements illegal would be so serious as to
make it futile to attempt to measure the loss in money
damages. The allegations certainly state a cause of action
in equity no less clear than that sustained in Utah Fuel Co.
v. National Bituminous Coal Comm'n, 306 U. S. 56. The
loss in bargaining position by the unions, the disruption of
harmonious relationships between the union and the employers, the almost certain decrease in union membership-these are matters involving intangible values. Sec.
267 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 384, forbids the
maintenance of suits in equity in the courts of the United
States "in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete
remedy may be had at law." But in view of the character
of the intangible interests at stake, we cannot see how any
remedy at law in the federal courts' would be adequate,
A legal cause of action in the federal courts, which involves
the point, may be slow in developing. Meanwhile, collective bargaining of the kind alleged to be permitted or secured by the National Labor Relations Act may be disastrously affected. We, of course, do not intimate an
opinion on the question whether the alleged conflict exists.
Whether the bill makes out a case to determine the issue
is the only question now before us.
Moreover, the threat to enforce the Florida law is real
and imminent. Quo warranto proceedings have been instituted against several of the corporations who are parties
to the suit on the basis that they have closed-shop agreements with the unions. And appellee Watson has an9The inadequacy of the relief at law is measured by the character
of the relief afforded by the federal not the state courts. Di Giovanni
v. Camden Fire Ins. Assn., supra,p. 69.

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

nounced a policy to prosecute criminally all violators of
the Florida law. The threat of multiplicity of prosecutions
which is here alleged would not alone be sufficient to establish a cause of action in equity. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284
U. S. 521, 529-530; Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra;
Beal v. Missouri PacificR. Co., 312 U. S. 45, 49-50; Douglas v. Jeannette,supra,pp. 163-165. But we mention the
matter here to show that the threat of irreparable injury
is real not fanciful, immediate not remote. The crux of
the matter is the allegation that there is an imminent
threat to an entire system of collective bargaining, a threat
which, if carried through, will have such repercussions on
the relationship between capital and labor as to cause irreparable damage. We conclude for that reason that the
bill states a cause of action in equity.10
As we have said, the District Court passed on the merits
of the controversy. In doing so at this stage of the litigation, we think it did not follow the proper course. The
merits involve substantial constitutional issues concerning
10 We do not pass on the question whether an interlocutory injunction should issue. That will be open on our remand of the cause. Sec.
266 provides in part: "if of opinion that irreparable loss or damage

would result to the complainant unless a temporary restraining order
is granted, any justice of the Supreme Court, or any circuit or district
judge, may grant such temporary restraining order at any time before
such hearing and determination of the application for an interlocutory
injunction, but such temporary restraining order shall remain in force
only until the hearing and determination of the application for an
interlocutory injunction upon notice as aforesaid. The hearing upon
such application for an interlocutory injunction shall be given precedence and shall be in every way expedited and be assigned for a hearing
at the earliest practicable day after the expiration of the notice hereinbefore provided for. An appeal may be taken direct to the Supreme
Court of the United States from the order granting or denying, after
notice and hearing, an interlocutory injunction in such case." As to
the findings necessary to support such relief, see Lawrence v. St. LouisSan Francisco R. Co., 274 U. S. 588, 595--596; Mayo v. Lakeland
Highlands Canning Co., 309 U. S. 310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the meaning of a new provision of the Florida constitution
which, so far as we are advised, has never been construed
by the Florida courts. Those courts have the final say
as to its meaning. When authoritatively construed, it
may or may not have the meaning or force which appellees
now assume that it has. In absence of an authoritative interpretation, it is impossible to know with certainty
what constitutional issues will finally emerge. What
would now be written on the constitutional questions
might therefore turn out to be an academic and needless
dissertation.
There is, in the first place, some question whether this
new provision of Florida's constitution is self-executing"
or requires legislation for its enforcement." The District
Court itself took the view that it is not self-executing and
noted that no enforcing legislation has been enacted. If,
on the other hand, it be assumed, as Florida's Attorney
General asserts, that this constitutional provision is selfexecuting, we do not know what sanctions Florida will
afford for its enforcement. It provides that "The right of
persons to work shall not be denied or abridged on account
of membership or non-membership in any labor union,
or labor organization . . ." It is asserted that this provision outlaws the closed-shop agreement and makes those
who enter into one criminally liable, or, in case of corpo"Tampa v. Tampa Waterworks Co., 45 Fla. 600, 628-629, 34 So.
631; Coleman v. State, 118 Fla. 201, 159 So. 504; Lummus v. Miami
Beach CongregationalChurch, 142 Fla. 657, 195 So. 607.
12 See Porter v. First National Bank, 96 Fla. 740, 119 So. 130, 519;
State v. Alsop, 120 Fla. 628, 163 So. 80; State v. Jones, 121 Fla. 216,
163 So. 590; Draughon v. Heitman, 124 Fla. 24, 168 So. 838; State
v. Emerson, 126 Fla. 576, 171 So. 663; American Bakeries Co. v. Haines
City, 131 Fla. 790, 180 So. 524; Miami v. State, 139 Fla. 598, 190 So.
774; Bryan v. Miami, 139 Fla. 650, 190 So. 772.
1 Here, too, there is doubt whether the constitutional provision is
self-executing. Appellee Watson apparently takes the position that
those who enter into closed-shop agreements violate an old Florida

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

Opinion of the Court.

rations, subjects them to quo warranto proceedings." So
far as we know, however, it may not have that effect but do
no more than give to an individual working man a cause of
action in case the rights granted him are denied or abridged.
Or as in the case of contracts in restraint of trade at common law, it may make closed-shop agreements unlawful
only in the sense that courts will not enforce them." The
proviso itself raises questions of interpretation which when
authoritatively settled may put the constitutional issues
now sought to be raised in quite a different light or even
eliminate some of them. The proviso states that "this
clause shall not be construed to deny or abridge the right
of employees by and through a labor organization or labor
union to bargain collectively with their employer." The
bill alleges that the right to bargain collectively granted by
the National Labor Relations Act includes the right to a
statute (22 Fla. Stats. Ann. § 833.02) which provides: "If two or more
persons shall agree, conspire, combine or confederate together for the
purpose of preventing any person from procuring work in any firm
or corporation, or to cause the discharge of any person from work in
such firm or corporation; or if any person shall verbally or by written
or printed communication, threaten any injury to life, property or
business of any person for the purpose of procuring the discharge of
any workman in any firm or corporation, or to prevent any person
from procuring work in such firm or corporation, such persons so
combining shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars each, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year." But in
Jetton-Dekle Lumber Co. v. Mather, 53 Fla. 969, 43 So. 590, the
Supreme Court of Florida said that that statute "will not be applied
to the case of union laborers who strike in order to secure all the labor
for themselves."
14 On quo warranto under Florida law see State v. Tampa Water
Works Co., 57 Fla. 533, 48 So. 639; State v. Duval County, 105 Fla.
174, 141 So. 173; State v. Prevatt, 110 Fla. 29, 148 So. 578; State v.
S. H. Kress & Co., 115 Fla. 189, 155 So. 823.
15See Mogul Steamship Co. v. McGregor, Gow & Co., [1892] A. C.
25, 39; Attorney General v. Adelaide Steamship Co., [1913] A. C.
781, 797.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

closed-shop agreement.18 Conceivably the proviso may
be construed to make this Florida law applicable only to
enterprises not subject to the National Labor Relations
Act. Or the right to bargain collectively, recognized by
the proviso, may be construed to mean the right which is
granted by the National Labor Relations Act.
We give these illustrations to indicate how uncertain it
is what constitutional issues will emerge once the Florida
law receives an authoritative interpretation. A decision
today on the constitutionality of this Florida law would
be based on a preliminary guess concerning its meaning,
not on an authoritative construction of it. We have already noted that this law may be so construed as to eliminate any conflict alleged to exist between it and the
National Labor Relations Act. If so, one of the constitutional questions presented by this case would disappear.
It is suggested, however, that the due process question is
ripe for adjudication no matter how the Florida law is construed. But if the law does no more than to grant an individual working man a cause of action in case he is denied
employment unless he joins a union, or if it goes no further
than to make closed-shop agreements unenforceable between the parties, no case or controversy raising the due
process question would be presented for decision by the
present bill. For individual working men are not here asserting rights against unions or employers. Nor does the
present case involve litigation by unions to enforce closedshop agreements against employers. Furthermore, if, as
the District Court thought, this Florida law is not selfexecuting, suits seeking to raise the due process question
or any other constitutional question would be premature
until Florida supplied sanctions for its enforcement. A decision today on the merits might, therefore, amount to no
more than an advisory opinion. In Railroad Commission
16 See

note 8, supra.

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

582

v. PullmanCo., supra;Chicagov. FieldcrestDairies,supra;
and Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin, supra,we held that
under such circumstances the proper course was for the
District Court to retain the bill until a definite determination of the local law questions could be made by the state
courts. The doubts concerning the meaning of the Florida
law indicate that such a procedure is peculiarly appropriate
here. Quo warrantoproceedings presently pending in the
Florida courts may resolve the doubts. And other actions,
such as suits for a declaratory judgment,17 would seem to
be available in the state courts.
It is said that since the continuance of litigation in the
state courts is the only ground asserted for equitable relief, the entire purpose of the present suit will be defeated
by retaining the bill pending determination of proceedings
in the state courts. But the problem is not unique. It was
implicit in Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., supra.
Moreover, the case for equitable relief rests not merely
on the presence of a few cases in the state courts but also
on the threat of wholesale prosecutions under a state law
which the chief law enforcement official of the State maintains outlaws contracts for collective bargaining which
labor and management have widely made. The resources
of equity are not inadequate to deal with the problem so
as to avoid unnecessary friction with state policies, while
selective cases go forward in the state courts for an orderly
and expeditious adjudication of the state law questions.
We reverse the judgment of the District Court and remand the cause to it with directions to retain the bill pending the determination of proceedings in the state courts in
conformity with this opinion.
By consent of the parties the Cigar Manufacturers Association of Tampa was dismissed as a party defendant in
17

See 5 Fla. Stats. Ann., § 62.09; Sheldon v. Powell, 99 Fla. 782,

128 So. 258.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

the District Court. Accordingly, its motion to dismiss this
appeal as against it is granted.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the suit should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in equity.
A criminal prosecution or other litigation conducted in
state courts by a. state official, within the scope of his authority as such, may, it is true, cause apprehension on the
part of those who are alleged to be lawbreakers. Such apprehensions and those of others may lead to changes in
business practices to the injury of the alleged lawbreakers.
But the conduct of such proceedings, in good faith and in
conformity to law, is not actionable at law or in equity.
Damage or loss to one's business or pocketbook, resulting
from such proceedings, is but an incident to the necessary
performance of a public function of state government. It
is damnum absque injuria. SpielmanMotor Co. v. Dodge,
295 U. S. 89, 95, and cases cited; Beal v. Missouri Pacific
R. Co., 312 U. S. 45,49, 50, and cases cited. And even when
the threatened injury is attributable to the state court
proceeding to enforce a state statute which is asserted to
be unconstitutional, it does not follow that equity will or
should exercise its jurisdiction to restrain the prosecution.
Congress has adopted the policy of leaving to the courts
of the states the trials for criminal violations of state law
and of quo warranto proceedings against their own corporations. Federal courts of equity, in the exercise of their
sound discretion, conform to that policy by refusing to interfere with proceedings in the state courts except where
unusual circumstances clearly call for equitable relief.
Hence it is well recognized that measures taken by state

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

officials to enforce state laws said to be unconstitutional
may be enjoined by federal courts only to prevent "irreparable injury," and not merely to avoid that harm which
is inseparable from the litigation of the mooted issues
whether in a state or a federal court. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 123, 155, 156, 166; Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S.
453, 456; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S.
497, 500; Fennerv. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243; Massachusetts State Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525, 527; Spielman
Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra; Di Giovanni v. Camden Fire
Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64; Douglas v. Jeannette, 319 U. S.
157, and cases cited. It is not enough to show that the
injury to appellants is only that which is a normal incident
of the state's assertion of its authority to enforce its laws.
No person is immune from any good faith prosecution by
the state for his unlawful acts. Neither the imminence of
the prosecution nor the incidental injury which may flow
from it is a ground for equity relief, since the constitutionality of the statute may be ascertained by the proceeding
in the state courts with appellate review by this Court, as
readily as by a suit in the federal courts. Spielman Motor
Co. v. Dodge, supra, 95, and cases cited; Beal v. Missouri
PacificR. Co., supra,49, and cases cited; Watson v. Buck,
313 U. S. 387; Williams v. Miller, 317 U. S. 599; Douglas
V.Jeannette,supra.
Until the state questions here mooted are authoritatively settled by the state courts, and the constitutional
questions which it is asserted they raise are settled by this
Court, the threat to the closed shop will continue to embarrass labor unions and employers who have or seek to
have closed-shop contracts. That embarrassment can be
removed only by the process of adjudication which the
state is constitutionally entitled to pursue, so long as the
state and its officials proceed according to law. Davis &
FarnumMfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207; Fenner y.
Boykin,. supra; Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra, 95.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

Hence the arrest by federal courts of the processes of the
civil or criminal law of the state, and the determination of
questions of civil or criminal liability under state law, must
be predicated not only upon a showing of unlawful or unconstitutional action on the part of the state, but upon
some showing of a resulting immediate and irreparable injury which can be avoided or prevented only by the federal
court's transferring the trial of the state questions from
the state courts to itself. Douglasv. Jeannette,supra, 164.
There is no contention here that the state officials are
acting outside their authority as such, that they are not
acting in good faith, Beal v. Missouri PacificR. Co., supra,
49; Douglas v. Jeannette,supra,164, or that they threaten
to make oppressive or malicious use of the legal processes
of the state. Cf. Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131. Nor is
there any showing that the litigation of pending questions
in the federal courts will be any less embarrassing or injurious to appellants than the litigation of suits already
pending in the state courts with review by this Court.
Douglas v. Jeannette,supra, 164.
There are no allegations which would take this case out
of the rule that in general a federal court of equity will not
exercise its power to stay litigation lawfully proceeding in
state courts, or at all except where it is plain that by the
exercise of its jurisdiction and its decision of the issue pending in the state courts it will avoid some immediate and
irreparable injury to a plaintiff. The case is to be distinguished from those sustaining federal equity jurisdiction where the acts sought to be enjoined, which* are
asserted to be unlawful, do not involve any resort by an
enforcement officer to the courts, where their lawfulness
would, as here, be determined. Utah Fuel Co. v. Coal
Comm'n, 306 U. S. 56; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496.
It is not suggested that appellants will be forced to comply with the Act because the penalties attending its violation are cumulative or so great that appellants may not,

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

without risk of irreparable loss, continue their closed-shop
contracts in order to test the constitutionality of the Act.
Cf. Ex parte Young, supra, 144; Missouri Pacific R. Co.
v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 349; Terrace v. Thompson, 263
U. S. 197, 212, 214-216; Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Co.,
supra,51. Nor does the complaint allege that any of the

persons, other than appellants, with whom appellants deal,
employers or employees, have, because of the threats of
appellees, broken or threatened to break their existing
closed-shop agreements or have refused to enter into such
agreements.* Cf. Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285. So
far as the complaint shows such persons have refused to
recognize the applicability or validity of the Florida
amendment and are prepared to contest it. Thus there is
no showing of threatened injury to applicants which would
afford any basis for an injunction. True, it is alleged that

appellant Gould, an employer, to his irreparable damage,
*It is stated in the papers on appellants' motion in the district court
for a restraining order, which now stands denied, that one employer,
against whom quo warranto proceedings have been brought, has sus'pended the closed-shop agreement which it had with one of appellants'
unions, and further, that appellees have filed quo warranto proceedings against several corporations having closed-shop agreements with
appellants, that "there will not be any bona fide defense made in said
suits, or most of them," and that the "prayers contained in the petitions" filed by appellees for a declaration "to the effect that the Constitutional -Amendment here under attack is legal and valid and the
closed.shop provisions of the contracts invalidated" will be granted.
iNTo such averments appear in the complaint, the allegations of which
alone supply the test of the equity jurisdiction. Massachusetts State
Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525, 528; Williams v. Miller, 317 U. S.
599. Further, assuming that statements in the motion papers may
supply essential allegations lacking in the complaint, no reason appears
why the employee appellants cannot test the validity of the Florida
laws and constitution by suits against their employers who have broken
their closed-shop contracts. There is no allegation on the motion
that any employer has refused to enter into a closed-shop contract
because of the threats of appellees.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

has not been able to enter into closed-shop agreements although anxious to do so. But it is not said that any of the
other appellants are, or have been, damaged by his failure
to enter into such agreements, and Gould himself may test
the law in Florida proceedings by refusing to comply with
the alleged threats of appellees. It does not appear that
his damage will be any different or greater if the litigation
proceeds in the state instead of the federal courts, or that
it is more than an unavoidable incident to litigation wherever conducted where the lawfulness of a business practice
is drawn in question. There is no showing that appellants
have sought or been denied the right to intervene in pending quo warranto proceedings, compare Florida Stats.
§ 63.09; Switow v. Sher, 136 Fla. 284, 186 So. 519; Daugherty v. Latham, 139 Fla. 477, 190 So. 742; Riviera Club v.
Belle Mead Develop. Corp., 141 Fla. 538, 194 So. 783; Carr
v. Carlisle, 146 Fla. 201, 200 So. 529; Tallentire v. Burkhart, 150 Fla. 137, 7 So. 2d 326, although the Attorney General of the state has taken the position in the pending
proceedings, as he does here, that he does not oppose the
granting of applications for intervention by the appellant
labor unions.
We cannot assume that the pending suits in quo warranto, with review by this Court of the federal questions
involved, will not settle all pending legal questions, state
and federal, as readily as a suit in the federal court, or that
the parties will not abide by the result. The bill of complaint is not framed on the theory of a bill of peace. Cf.
Cleveland v. Cleveland City R. Co., 194 U. S. 517; Boise
Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276; Beal v.
Missouri PacificR. Co., supra, 50. It does not allege that
repeated, groundless or otherwise vexatious suits will be
brought. McDanielv. Traylor,212 U.S. 428; Di Giovanni
v. Camden Fire Ins. Assn., supra, 68. It does not seek to
join all parties threatened by the prosecution of suits or
show such singleness of issue of decisive questions as will

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

permit the adjudication of all in a single suit. Francisv.
Flinn, 118 U. S. 385; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 115;
Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, 77 et seq.; St. Louis, I. M. &
S. R. Co. v. McKnight, 244 U. S. 368, 375; Kelley v. Gill,
245 U. S. 116, 120; Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521,
530.
And, finally, the determination of the constitutional
questions, which is the only purpose of the suit, must turn
on the authoritative decision of the numerous and novel
state questions presented. Cf. Hygrade Provision Co. v.
Sherman, supra; Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445;
Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, supra; Beal v. Missouri
PacificR. Co., supra,50. The presence of such state questions in the suit is itself a sufficient ground for our declining to decide the constitutional questions in advance of
authoritative determination of the state questions by the
state courts. Cf. Alabama State Federationv. McAdory,
325 U. S. 450; C. I. 0. v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 472; see
Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101.
Further, since the whole aim of appellants' suit is to
enjoin the appellees from proceeding in the state courts,
this Court's direction to the district court to retain the bill
pending the determination of proceedings in the state
courts defeats the entire purpose of the present suit and
permits the continuance of state litigation which is the
only ground asserted for equitable relief. If appellees
should at any time make oppressive use of legal processes
of the state, bring repeated, groundless suits, or otherwise
threaten irreparable damage to appellants, the federal
courts are open to them upon their making allegations
sufficient to justify intervention by equity. But the mere
chance that such irreparable damage may be threatened at
some indefinite time in the future, although it is not now,
is no reason for the district court to retain the bill which
wholly fails to show any ground for equitable relief. There
being no showing of damage to the appellants, actual or

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting in part.

327 U. S.

potential, save that which is a necessary incident to the
state's exercise of its constitutional power to enforce its
constitution and laws, which this Court now permits, it is
our plain duty to dismiss the suit.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting in part.
I dissent from that part of the Court's opinion that holds
that the District Court erred in passing upon the merits
of the controversy presented by this case.
It may well be that there are serious questions as to how
and against whom Florida's new constitutional provision
will be enforced. And the provision may be construed so
as not to conflict with the National Labor Relations Act.
Such matters must wait for authoritative action by the
Florida courts. But there are federal constitutional issues
inherent on the face of this provision that do not depend
upon any interpretation or application made by Florida
courts. Those issues were raised and decided in the court
below. And they should be given appropriate attention
by this Court.
The Court today holds that there is a very real and imminent threat to the entire system of collective bargaining
in Florida growing out of the current attempts to enforce
the Florida law. It should not be and is not difficult to
discover the federal constitutional issues that are involved
in that threat. True, we cannot say what constitutional
issues may arise out of the law as subsequently interpreted
and applied by the Florida courts. But we can say what
issues are apparont on the face of the law itself, the law that
has given rise to the grave threat to collective bargaining
in Florida. Either the provision does or does not violate
due process as guaranteed in the Fourteenth Amendment;
either it falls outside or inside the permissible scope of the
police power of the state; either it is in accord or in conflict on its face with the National Labor Relations Act.
Those are the issues the parties have raised and the court

A. F. OF L. v. WATSON.
582

MuRPHY, J., dissenting in part.

below has decided. Those are the issues that are obviously
involved in relation to the Florida law. I do not believe
that a federal court is incapable of recognizing or deciding
those issues. Nor do I believe that it should close its eyes
to those issues merely because they are difficult or highly
controversial. In short, appellants' claims are ripe for
adjudication.
Moreover, the Court remands the case to the District
Court -ith directions to retain the case until the Florida
courts interpret the provision in the Florida constitution.
The efficacy of this disposition of the case is less real than
apparent. It affords little if any protection to the appellants so far as the issues now in dispute are concerned.'
They are left unprotected against the very threat which
this Court states is real and imminent. And should the
Florida courts ultimately decide these issues adversely to
appellants' contentions they will have no effective recourse
in the District Court, which already has expressed itself
fully and adversely relative to those contentions.
I dissent, therefore, from a procedure depriving appellants of a full hearing and a determination of the issues
they have properly raised in the District Court and denying them the right to secure the protection the federal
equitable power might give them.

