OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

power in that section, the long established administrative
practice of holding embezzled funds to be taxable income
of the embezzler, and finally because of the arbitrary distinctions in favor of the embezzler which arise from an
opposite interpretation of the Code, I believe that embezzled funds are taxable gains as defined by Congress.
NIPPERT v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 72. Argued November 8, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. A municipal ordinance imposed upon persons "engaged in business
as solicitors" an annual license tax of "$50.00 and one-half of one
per centum of the gross earnings, receipts, fees or commissions for
the preceding license year in excess of $1,000." A permit from
the Director of Public Safety was a prerequisite to issuance of
the license, and violators were subject to criminal penalties. Upon
a record which showed that appellant had been soliciting in the
city for five days, without a license, orders for out-of-state confirmation and shipment into the State, appellant was convicted
and fined. Held that the ordinance as so applied violated the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 417, 434.
2. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489, and later
cases, followed; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33,
distinguished. Pp. 417-418, 420.
3. The tax here can not be sustained as one upon the "local incident"
of "solicitation." Whether a "local incident" related to or affecting interstate commerce may be made the subject of state taxation
depends upon considerations of constitutional policy having reference to the substantial effects, actual or potential, of the particular tax in suppressing or burdening commerce unduly. Pp. 422424.
4. The effects of the tax here in question are not only prohibitive
in an absolute sense, in many applications, but are discriminatory
in favor of the local merchant as against the out-of-state one.
P. 431.
(a) The ordinance is not saved by the fact that it is neither prohibitive nor discriminatory on its face; nor by the fact that it is
applicable also to all local distributors operating similarly. P. 431.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

(b) The very difference between interstate and local trade, taken
in conjunction with the inherent character of the tax, makes equality of application as between those two classes of commerce, generally speaking, impossible. P. 432.
5. Local governments may not impose a tax which, though applicable to all commerce, strikes down or discriminates against large
volumes of that commerce, in order to reach other portions as to
which the application of the tax would produce no such consequences or only negligible ones. P. 433.
6. The tax here in question involves too many probabilities, and
actualities, for exclusion of or discrimination against interstate
commerce in favor of local competing business, to be sustained
in any such application as that given it in this case. P. 434.
183 Va. 689, 33 S. E. 2d 206, reversed.

Appeal from a judgment which affirmed a conviction
for violation of a municipal ordinance imposing a license
tax. Reversed, p. 435.
Cornelius H. Doherty argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief was Stanley H. Kamerow.
Edwards argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief was Henry R. Miller, Jr.
Horace H.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The question is whether a license tax laid by an ordi-

nance of the City of Richmond, Virginia, upon engaging
in business as solicitor can be applied in the facts of this
case consistently with the commerce clause of the Federal

Constitution, Article I, § 8. As the case has been made,
the issue is substantially whether the long line of so-called
"drummer cases"' beginning with Robbins v. Shelby
I See the authorities cited in McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309
U. S. 33, 55-57, and the Court's discussion, particularly in note 11.
As there stated, in the Shelby County case the Court was cognizant
of the rapidly growing tendency of states and municipalities to lay
license taxes upon drummers "for the purpose of embarrassing this

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, shall be adhered
to in result or shall now be overruled in the light of what
attorneys for the city say are recent trends requiring that
outcome.
The ordinance lays an annual license tax in the following terms:
"[Upon] . . .- Agents - Solicitors - Persons,
Firms or Corporations engaged in business as solicitors . . . $50.00 and one-half of one per centum of
the gross earnings, receipts, fees or commissions for
the preceding license year in excess of $1,000.00. Permit of Director of Public Safety required before license will be issued .
,,
2
competition with local merchants,!' and following the Shelby County
decision nineteen such taxes were held invalid.
For a discussion of distinction between drummers and peddlers, see
Comment, 40 Yale L. J. 1094.
2 Chapter 10, § 23, Richmond City Code (1939).
Chapter 10, § 1661/2 (a) reads: "Every person, firm and corporation desiring a license under sections 14, 16, 23, 94, 120 and 143, of
this chapter shall first apply to the Director of Public Safety for a
permit on behalf of said individual, firm or corporation, as the case
may be, to conduct the business which is desired to be conducted and
shall produce to that Director evidence of the good character of the
individual, the members of the firm, or the chief officers of the corporation, as the case may be, and it shall thereupon be the duty of the
Director of Public Safety to make a reasonable investigation of the
character of said individual, each of the members of the firm, or each
of the chief officers of the corporation, as the case may be, and if he
be satisfied that the individual, the members of the firm or the principal officers of the Corporation, as the case may be, be of good moral
character and a person or persons fit to engage in the proposed business, he shall issue the permit. The form of the application for such
permit and the form of the permit itself 'shall be prepared and
furnished by the Director of Public Safety."
Appellant has argued in this Court that the ordinance's requirements relating to permits, particularly in so far as they may vest in
the Director of Public Safety discretionary power to grant or withhold the permit, of their own force and without reference to the char-

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

419

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant was arrested in Richmond for having engaged
in the business of a solicitor there without previously pro-

curing the required license.

After hearing before a police

court justice she was fined $25.00 and costs and ordered
to secure a license. An appeal was noted to the Hustings

Court of the City of Richmond, where a trial de novo was
had upon the agreed statement of facts set forth in the

margin.8 The Hustings Court held the ordinance appliacter of the tax in other respects render it invalid in the present
application. Appellee insists that the point was not presented in
the state courts and therefore is not open for consideration here. In
view of the disposition we make of the cause on other grounds, it is
not necessary to consider these questions.
3 "The American Garment Company, which is owned and operated
by John V. Rosser, with its main office at 3617 12th Street, N. E.,
Washington, D. C., is engaged in the manufacture and sale of certain
ladies' garments. The American Garment Company employs solicitors
who travel from City to City throughout the country and obtain
orders for this particular garment, which is sold for $2.98, and the
solicitor receives from the purchaser a down payment usually sufficient
to pay the commission of the solicitor, and the order is then sent to the
home office of the American Garment Company and the garment is
then sent through the United States mails C. 0. D. for the balance
to the purchaser. The solicitors at no time make a delivery of the
article.
"The defendant herein was not and is not carried on the rolls of the
American Garment Company as an employee and her sole compensation is the commission received from the sale of each article.
"The defendant, Dorothy Nippert, on January 20, 1944, was soliciting orders for the American Garment Company, as above set
forth, in the City of Richmond, and that Dorothy Nippert had been
engaged for four days prior to January 20, 1944, in going from place
to place in the City of Richmond and in soliciting orders for the sale
of merchandise on behalf of the American Garment Company and had,
during that time, been engaged in going from place to place within
the places of business of Miller & Rhoads, Incorporated, a large department store in the City of Richmond and within the place of business of one of the Five and Ten Cent Stores in the City of Richmond,
and therein soliciting the Clerks in those stores so as to procure from

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

cable to appellant in the circumstances disclosed by the
facts and was of the opinion that, so applied, it was not
in conflict with the commerce clause. Accordingly the
court found the appellant guilty and fined her five dollars
and costs. The Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
affirmed. 183 Va. 689, 33 S. E. 2d 206. From that judgment of the State's highest court the case comes here by
appeal.
If the matter is to be settled solely on the basis of
authority, nothing more is required than bare reference
to the long list of drummer decisions, which have held
unvaryingly that such a tax as Richmond has exacted
cannot be applied constitutionally to situations identical
with or substantially similar to the facts of this case.
Among the latest of these is Real Silk Hosiery Mills v.
Portland,268 U. S.325, in which a municipal ordinance
requiring solicitors to pay a license fee was held unconstitutional, as a forbidden burden upon interstate commerce when applied to an out-of-state corporation whose
representatives solicited orders for subsequent interstate
shipment. Cf. Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S.454.
Counsel for Richmond, however, insist that other cases
decided here have seriously impaired the "drummer" line
of authority, so much so that those rulings no longer can
stand consistently with the later ones. Their principal
reliance is on McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S.
33, in which the Court sustained the application of New
York City's sales tax to the delivery there, at the end of
its interstate journey, of coal shipped from Pennsylvania
pursuant to contracts of sale previously made in New
those Clerks orders for the sale of merchandise on behalf of the American Garment Company, and that such solicitation occurred on the
20th of January, 1944, and that she, the said Dorothy Nippert, had
not there[to]fore procured a City revenue license from the City of
Richmond."

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

York.' It is urged that the case is indistinguishable from
the present one on any tenable basis relating to the bearing or effect of the tax upon interstate commerce, although
the opinion reviewed at some length the drummer cases,
among others, and expressly distinguished them.'
Unless therefore this latest pronouncement upon their
continuing authority is to be put aside with the cases
themselves, the application made of the ordinance in this
case must be stricken down. For the tax thus laid is precisely the "fixed-sum license taxes imposed on the business
of soliciting orders for the purchase of goods to be shipped
SSome reliance appears to be placed also upon other more recent
cases, including International'Harvester Co. v. Department of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, and General Trbhding Co. v. State!Tax Commission,
322 U. S. 335.
5 Pointing out, with a reference to the Shelby County case itself,
that in some of the cases the tax appeared to be aimed at the suppression of this type of business or putting it at disadvantage with
competing intrastate sales, the opinion continued:
"In all [the cited cases], the statute, in its practical operation, was
capable of use, through increase in the tax, and in fact operated to
some extent to place the merchant thus doing business interstate at
a disadvantage in competition with untaxed sales at retail stores
within the state. While a state, in some circumstances, may by taxation suppress or curtail one type of intrastate business to the advantage of another type of competing business which is left untaxed, . . . it does not follow that interstate commerce may be similarly affected by the practical operation of a state taxing statute ...
It is enough for present purposes that the rule of Robbins v. Shelby
County Taxing District, supra, has been narrowly limited to fixedsum license taxes imposed on, the business of soliciting orders for the
purchase of goods to be shipped interstate . ..;and that the actual
and potential effect on the commerce of such a tax is wholly wanting
in the present case." 309 U. S. at 56-57. In Best & Co. v. Maxwell
the Court said: "In McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co. . . .we
pointed out that the line of decisions following Robbins v. Shelby
County . . .rested on the actual and potential discrimination inherent in certain fixed-sum license taxes." 311 U. S. 454, 455, note 3.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

interstate" which the Berwind-White opinion distinguished from the New York tax.'
But we are told that the rationale of the decision requires the distinction to be discarded. As counsel state it,
this was "that the tax was imposed upon events which
occurred within the taxing jurisdiction which events are
separate and distinct from the transportation or intercourse which is interstate commerce." ' The logic is completed by noting that the New York tax was upon the
"local incident" of "delivery" while in this case it is on the
like incident of "solicitation"; and by adding the contention, given more substance since the argument by our
decision in International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U. S. 310, that "mere solicitation" when it is regular, continuous and persistent, rather than merely casual, constitutes "doing business," contrary to formerly prevailing
notions. Hence it is concluded, since the delivery in the
Berwind-White case could be taxed, so can the solicitation
in this case.
6 See note 5. Whether or not the "fixed sum" reference would apply
to a tax measured in part by gross receipts (cf. the language of the
ordinance in this case relating to earnings, etc., in excess of $1000),
the tax as applied here presumably would not involve that feature,
since by the explicit wording it applies only to earnings, etc., "for the
preceding license year" and there is no showing relating to such earnings in this case. See also note 7.
7 Counsel cite the Court's statement made in differentiating Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, "The rationale of the Adams Manufacturing Co. case does not call for condemnation of the present tax.
Here the tax is conditioned upon a local activity, delivery of goods
within the state upon their purchase for consumption." 309 U. S.
at 58. (Emphasis added.) However, the Court went on immediately
to say, "It is an activity which, apart from its effect on the commerce,
is subject to the state taxing power. The effect of the tax, even though
measured by the sales price [cf. note 6 supra], as has been shown,
neither discriminates against nor obstructs interstate commerce more
than numerous other state taxes which have repeatedly been sustained
as involving no prohibited regulation of interstate commerce." Ibid.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

Appellee's rationalization takes only partial account of
the reasoning and policy underlying the Berwind-White
decision and its differentiation of the drummer authorities. If the only thing necessary to sustain a state tax
bearing upon interstate commerce were to discover some
local incident which might be regarded as separate and
distinct from "the transportation or intercourse which is"
the commerce itself and then to lay the tax on that incident, all interstate commerce could be subjected to state
taxation and without regard to the substantial economic
effects of the tax upon the commerce. For the situation
is difficult to think of in which some incident of an interstate transaction taking place within a State could not be
segregated by an act of mental gymnastics and made the
fulcrum of the tax. All interstate commerce takes place
within the confines of the States and necessarily involves
"incidents" occurring within each State through which it
passes or with which it is connected in fact. And there
is no known limit to the human mind's capacity to carve
out from what is an entire or integral economic process
particular phases or incidents, label them as "separate and
distinct" or "local," and thus achieve its desired result.
It has not yet been decided that every state tax bearing
upon or affecting commerce becomes valid, if only some
conceivably or conveniently separable "local incident"
may be found and made the focus of the tax. This is not
to say that the presence of so-called local incidents is irrelevant. On the contrary the absence of any connection in
fact between the commerce and the state would be sufficient in itself for striking down the tax on due process
grounds alone; and even substantial connections, in an
economic sense, have been held inadequate to support the
local tax.' But beyond the presence of a sufficient con8The latest instance decided here being McLeod v. Ddworth Co.,
322 U. S. 327.

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

nection in a due process or "jurisdictional" sense, whether
or not a "local incident" related to or affecting commerce
may be made the subject of state taxation depends upon
other considerations of constitutional policy having reference to the substantial effects, actual or potential, of the
particular tax in suppressing or burdening unduly the
commerce.0 Some of these at least were emphasized in
the Berwind-White opinion.
Thus the Court, referring to the Shelby County line of
decisions, stressed that "read in their proper historical
setting these cases may be said to support the view that
this kind of a tax is likely to be used 'as an instrument of discrimination against interstate or foreign
commerce' . . ."'y and that the tax ,inits practical operation, was capable of use, through increase in the tax,
and in fact operated to some extent to place the merchant
thus doing business interstate at a disadvantage in competition with untaxed sales at retail stores within the
state." "1 Noting that the State in some instances can
suppress or curtail one kind of local business for the advantage of another type of competing business, the opinion
denied that interstate commerce "may be similarly affected by the practical operation of a state taxing statute,"
and also denied that the New York tax had any such actual
or potential effect.
Thus the essence of the distinction taken in the BerwindWhite case was that the taxes outlawed in the drummer
9Itis old doctrine, notwithstanding many early deviations, that the
practical operation of the tax, actual or potential, rather than its descriptive label or formal character is determinative. See the authorities cited in note 23. The Berwind-White and other recent cases,
including Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S.454, only bring that doctrine down to date. Cf. Lockhart, The Sales Tax in Interstate Commerce (1939) 52 Harv. L. Rev. 617, 621.
309 U. S. at 56, note 11; see note 5, supra.
See note 6.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

cases in their practical operation worked discriminatorily
against interstate commerce to impose upon it a burden,
either in fact or by the very threat of its incidence, which
they did not place upon competing local business and
which the New York sales tax did not create." See Best
& Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454; cf. Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359.
As has been so often stated but nevertheless seems to
require constant repetition, not all burdens upon commerce, but only undue or discriminatory ones, are forbidden.' For, though "interstate business must pay its
way," "4a State consistently with the commerce clause
cannot put a barrier around its borders to bar out trade
from other States and thus bring to naught the great constitutional purpose of the fathers in giving to Congress
the power "To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States . . ." " Nor may the pro12

See Lockhart, The Sales Tax in Interstate Commerce (1939) 52

Harv. L. Rev. 617, 621.
18 Cf. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252, 259;
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 254; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 46; Nelson v. Sears,
Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S. 359.
14 Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252, 259;
New Jersey Bell Telephone Co. v. State Board of Taxes, 280 U. S.
338, 351.
15 Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446,455-458. Thus, even the commerce in intoxicating liquors, over which the Twenty-first Amendment gives the States the highest degree of control, is not altogether
beyond the reach of the federal commerce power, at any rate when
the State's regulation squarely conflicts with regulation imposed by
Congress governing interstate trade or traffic, United States v. Frankfort Distilleries, 324 U. S. 293, whether or not also in some instances
in addition to complete exclusion from passing through the State,
Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518, in"the absence of such
congressional action. Cf. Carter v. Virginia, 321 U. S. 131, 137;
Ziffrin v. Reeves, 308 U. S. 132, 140.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

hibition be accomplished in the guise of taxation which
produces the excluding or discriminatory effect.16
Appellee argues, as the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals held,17 that the Richmond tax is not discriminatory
or unduly burdensome in effect. In support of this view
it relies mainly on two contentions, first, that the tax is
no more discriminatory or burdensome than was the tax
in the Berwind-White case; and, second, that it applies
alike to all solicitors whether they are engaged in soliciting for local or for interstate business. Apart from the
fact that the tax as applied here is laid directly upon sales
arising only under contracts requiring interstate shipment
of goods, cf. 309 U. S. 48 ff., the contentions entirely misconceive what is meant by discrimination or undue burden
in the sense applicable to these problems.
In view of the ruling in InternationalShoe Co. v. Wash-

ington, supra, we put aside any suggestion that "solicitation," when conducted regularly and continuously
within the State, so as to constitute a course of business,
may not be "doing business" just as is the making of
delivery, at any rate for the purpose of focusing a tax
which in other respects would be sustainable. But we
do not think the tax as it was applied in this case either
conforms to those conditions of regularity and continuity
or avoids other prohibited effects.
The sales and the deliveries in the Berwind-White case
were regular, continuous and persistent. They constituted a "course of business." There was no suggestion,
nor any basis in the facts for one, that they were only
casual, spasmodic or irregular. On the present record the
16 Cf. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 256;
Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511, 522-523; Best & Co. v.
Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454, 455, and authorities cited in note 3 therein.
17
See, in addition to the instant case, Dunston v. Norfolk, 177 Va.
689, 15 S. E. 2d 86.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

only showing is that appellant "on January 20, 1944, was
soliciting orders" in Richmond, for later out-of-state confirmation and fulfillment, and that for four days prior to
that date she had been engaged in such solicitation "from
place to place in the City of Richmond," including particularly solicitation of the clerks in the department store
of Miller & Rhoads, Incorporated, and in a five and ten
cent store. There was no showing that, apart from these
five days, appellant had solicited previously in Richmond,
that she intended to return later for the same purpose
or, if so, whether regularly and indefinitely or only occasionally and spasmodically.
This difference in the facts would be sufficient in itself
to distinguish the cases. But there are other differences.
The tax here was a fixed substantial sum for the first year,
to which in subsequent years would be added one-half of
one per cent of the gross returns in excess of $1000. And,
regardless of the discretionary element in the issuing function of the Director of Public Safety, his permit was required with payment of the tax before the license could
issue or the act of solicitation could lawfully take place,
criminal sanction being prescribed for violation. So far
as appears a single act of unlicensed solicitation would
bring the sanction into play. The tax thus inherently bore
no relation to the volume of business done or of returns
from it. The New York sales tax, on the other hand, was
limited to a percentage of the gross returns, being thus
directly proportioned to the volume of business transacted
and of returns from it. Although the seller was put under
duty to pay the tax within a specified time from the sale,
he was not required to obtain a permit or license beforehand in order to initiate or complete the transaction.
Moreover the economic incidence of the tax fell only upon
completed transactions, not as in this case on the very
initial step toward bringing one about.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Obviously different therefore are the two taxes, first,
in their exclusionary effects, especially upon small outof-state operators, whether casual or regular; and also,
it would seem clear, in discriminatory effects as between
such operators and local ones of the same type or other
competing local merchants. The New York tax bore
equally upon all, whether local or out-of-state and
whether making a single sale or casual ones or engaging
continuously in them throughout the year. As the Court
said, it is difficult to see how the New York tax could bear
in any case more heavily upon out-of-state operators than
upon local ones, apart from possible multiple state taxation or the threat of it such as, among other considerations,"8 was thought to forbid the levy and collection
of the tax in Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307.
The incidence of the tax was the same upon both types
of transactions, as was its amount; and if in any instance
there was exclusionary effect or tendency, this did not
appear from the record or from the inherent character of
the tax. Neither did any possibility appear that it would
strike more heavily upon out-of-state sellers than on local
ones, apart from that of multiple state taxation. 9
I8The Court said: "The vice of the statute as applied to receipts
from interstate sales is that the tax includes in its measure, without
apportionment, receipts derived from activities in interstate commerce; and that the exaction is of such a character that if lawful it may
in substance be laid to the fullest extent by States in which the goods
are sold as well as those in which they are manufactured. Interstate
commerce would thus be subjected to the risk of a double tax burden
to which intrastate commerce is not exposed, and which the commerce
clause forbids. We have repeatedly held that such a tax is a regulation of, and a burden upon, interstate commerce prohibited by
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution. The opinion of the State Supreme
Court stresses the generality and nondiscriminatory character of the
exaction, but it is settled that this will not save the tax if it directly
burdens interstate commerce." 304 U. S. at 311-312.
19 It should be noted that no question has been raised in this case
concerning any issue of so-called "multiple state taxation." Cf. note 7.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

429

Opinion of the Court.

In addition to that possibility, the Richmond tax imposes substantial excluding and discriminatory effects
of its own. As has been said, the small operator particularly and more especially the casual or occasional one
from out of the State will find the tax not only burdensome but prohibitive, with the result that the commerce
is stopped before it is begun. And this effect will be
extended to more substantial and regular operators, particularly those whose product is of highly limited or
special character and whose market in any single locality
for that reason or others cannot be mined more than
once in every so often. 0
The potential excluding effects for itinerant salesmen
become more apparent when the consequences of increasing the amount of the tax are considered. Cf. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra, at 58. And they
are magnified many times by recalling that the tax is
a municipal tax, not one imposed by the state legislature
for uniform application throughout the State.
It is true that in legal theory the municipality exercises by delegation the State's legislative power and that
prior decisions here have not rested squarely upon any
difference between a tax municipally imposed and one
laid by the legislature. But the cumulative effect, pracBut if a nondiscriminatory state tax may become discriminatory or
unduly burdensome by virtue of the fact that other States also may
impose a similar tax bearing upon the transaction, the possibilities
for such multiplication would seem obviously to be magnified many
times by the application of municipal taxes like that involved here.
20 The established merchant maintaining a local place of business
where he deals in a variety of commodities, for instance, is much more
favorably placed to absorb the cost of the tax than the itinerant vendor who deals in or takes orders for a single specialized commodity
or only a few.
The record does not show whether appellant would have been compensated by the company for whom she solicits, had she paid the tax.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

tically speaking, of flat municipal taxes laid in succession
upon the itinerant merchant as he passes from town to
town is obviously greater than that of any tax of. statewide application likely to be laid by the legislature itself.
And it is almost as obvious that the cumulative burden
will be felt more strongly by the out-of-state itinerant
than by the one who confines his movement within the
State or the salesman who operates within a single community or only a few. 1 The drummer or salesman whose
business requires him to move from place to place, exhausting his market at each periodic visit or conducting
his business in more sporadic fashion with reference to
particular localities, would find the cumulative burden of
the Richmond type of tax eating away all possible return
from his selling. A day here, a day there, five days now
and five days a year or several months later, with a flat
license tax annually imposed lacking any proportion to
the number or length of visits or the volume of the busi2

The discriminations against solicitors constitute only part of the

more general problem of interstate trade barriers. See Hearings before the Temporary National Economic Committee, 76th Cong., 2d
Sess., Pt. 29; Melder, State and Local Barriers to Interstate Commerce in the United States (1937). But as to the different types of
statutes and ordinances designed to favor local business as against
itinerant solicitors and peddlers and "gypsy truckers," see Hearings,
supra, 15965-15987 and Exhibit No. 2394 (not included in the printed
Hearings); Gould, Legislative Intervention in the Conflict between
Orthodox and Direct-Selling Distribution Channels (1941) 8 Law &
Contemp. Prob. 318. One method used to discourage solicitors has
been to require elaborate information. It is said that "In some New
Jersey cities this method has reduced the number of canvassers by 35
per cent." 18 Public Management 83. And in Arizona at one time
an itinerant trucker, who went through all the counties of the State,
would have been obliged to pay $4,400 in fees in addition to posting
a $5,000 bond. Hearings, supra, Ex. 2353. In addition, licensing
statutes, otherwise fair on their face, are said to have been discriminatorily enforced against itinerant merchants. See Note (1940) 16
Ind. L. J. 247, 251.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
416

Opinion of the Court.

ness or return, can only mean the stoppage of a large
amount of commerce which would be carried on either in
the absence of the tax or under the incidence of one taking
account of these variations.
These effects, not present in the Berwind-White type
of tax," are inherent in the Richmond type in relation
to a wide variety of selling activities. They are not only
prohibitive *inan absolute sense, for many applications.
They are discriminatory in favor of the local merchant
as against the out-of-state one.
It is no answer, as appellee contends, that the tax is
neither prohibitive nor discriminatory on the face of the
ordinance; or that it applies to all local distributors doing
business as appellant has done. Not the tax in a vacuum
of words, but its practical consequences for the doing of
interstate commerce in applications to concrete facts are
our concern. ' To ignore the variations in effect which
follow from application of the tax, uniform on the face
of the ordinance, to highly different fact situations is only
to ignore those practical consequences. In that blindness lies the vice of the tax and of appellee's position.
22The Berwind-White case furnishes an illustration that the difference between municipal and state-wide taxes may not be controlling or even relevant in relation to a tax which, apart from the
possibility of multiple state taxation, presents neither the prohibitive consequences inherent in Richmond's tax nor any element of
discrimination in favor of local business. The itinerant out-of-state
merchant could pay the New York sales tax and survive, according-,
to its general effect, without any disadvantage as compared with local
merchants, itinerant or established, resulting from the tax, excepting
only the possibility of multiple state taxation.
- Cf. Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 224, 227;
Lawrence v. State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 280; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 167, 177; Wisconsin v. J. C. Penney"
Co., 311 U. S. 435, 444,445; Nelson v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S.
359, 363, 366.

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

The tax, by reason of those variations, cannot be taken
to apply generally to local distributors in the same manner
and with like effects as in application to out-of-state distributors. The very difference in locations of their business headquarters, if any, and of their activities makes this
impossible. This, of course, is but another way of saying
that the very difference between interstate and local trade,
taken in conjunction with the inherent character of the
tax, makes equality of application as between those two
classes of commerce, generally speaking, impossible.
It is true that the tax may strike as heavily upon some
Virginia solicitors, and even upon some who confine themselves to Richmond, as it does upon others who come
periodically or otherwise from Washington, New York or
Cedar Rapids. And it may bear upon a few of the former
more heavily than upon most of the latter. But neither
consequence is the more probable one for the larger number of cases. The strong likelihood is the other way. And
to point to either of those possibilities is only to say, in
a different way, that the tax is highly variable in its incidence and effects with reference to the manner in which
one organizes his business and especially in respect to its
location and spread in relation to state lines. It was exactly these variations, when they bear with undue burden
upon commerce that crosses state lines, which the commerce clause was intended to prevent.
We are not unmindful that large enterprise which "does
business" by sending solicitors regularly and continuously
into several States, cf. InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, supra, may have the financial resources and established course of business enabling it to absorb the tax and
justifying its doing so in an economic sense; or that, therefore, if the ruling should extend to such a situation, the
business so situated would escape to that extent bearing
the burden of the tax borne by local businesses similarly

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.'
416

433

Opinion of the Court.

situated, absent some other form of tax to equalize the
burden. But, in the first place, no such case is presented
by the facts here. 4 And even if such a result should be
thought necessary in order to avoid the forbidden consequences in so many other applications, that fact would not
justify sustaining the tax and permitting those consequences to occur.
There is no lack of power in the State or its municipalities to see that interstate commerce bears with local
trade its fair share of the cost of local government, more
especially in view of recent trends in this field. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra. But this does not
mean, and the trends do not signify, that the state or
municipal governments may devise a tax applicable to
all commerce alike, which strikes down or discriminates
against large volumes of that commerce in order to reach
other portions as to which the application of the tax
24Since appellant works for an out-of-state firm and the record
contains nothing to show her presence in Richmond at any time other
than during the one five-day period, or any intention to return,
whether periodically or casually, no presumption can arise that she
was a resident of Richmond or was regularly engaged in solicitation
there. The presumption on the facts before us is the other way.
Moreover, here as in Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454, the "real
competitors" of petitioner are, among others, the local retail merchants. The Richmond ordinance, unlike the North Carolina statute,
does not discriminate on its face between such merchants and transient
solicitors; nor does it fix a lower rate for the former. But the opinion
in the Best case expressly pointed out that nominally the statute
treated local and out-of-state transients alike. Nevertheless, since
the latters' principal competition obviously came from "regular retail
merchants" and the tax bore "no relation to actual or probable sales,"
the Court found the North Carolina atmosphere too hostile to allow
survival of interstate commerce. The discrimination resulting from
the present application of the Richmond ordinance, as between outof-state solicitors and regular retail merchants, is only less obvious.
It is not less real. Cf. note 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

would produce no such consequences or only negligible
ones. Other types of tax are available for reaching both
portions which do not involve the forbidden evils or the
necessity for putting them upon some commerce in order
to reach other. The problem comes down therefore to
whether the state or municipal legislative bodies in framing their taxing measures to reach interstate commerce
shall be at pains to do so in a manner which avoids the
evils forbidden by the commerce clause and puts that
commerce actually upon a plane of equality with local
trade in local taxation, not as is said to a question of
whether interstate trade shall bear its fair share of the
cost of local government, the benefit and protection of
which it enjoys on a par with local business.
The tax here in question inherently involves too many
probabilities, and we think actualities, for exclusion 25
of or discrimination against interstate commerce, in favor
of local competing business, to be sustained in any application substantially similar to the present one. Whether
or not it was so intended, those are its necessary effects.
Indeed, in view of that fact and others of common knowledge, we cannot be unmindful, as our predecessors were
not when they struck down the drummer taxes, that these
ordinances lend themselves peculiarly to creating those
very consequences or that in fact this is often if not always the object of the local commercial influences which
induce their adoption. Provincial interests and local
political power are at their maximum weight in bringing
about acceptance of this type of legislation. With the
forces behind it, this is the very kind of barrier the commerce clause was put in the fundamental law to guard
against. It may be, as the Court said in the Berwind25

Obviously a total exclusion of commerce is itself the most effec-

tive form of discrimination in favor of the local merchant who is so
situated that he can continue in the business.

NIPPERT v. RICHMOND.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

416

White case, that the State is free to allow its municipal
subdivisions to erect such barriers against each other,
to some extent, as to the commerce over which the State
has exclusive control. It cannot so outlaw or burden
the commerce of the United States.
The drummer is a figure representative of a by-gone
day.2 But his modern prototype persists under more
euphonious appellations. So endure the basic reasons
which brought about his protection from the kind of local
favoritism the facts of this case typify.
We have considered appellee's other contentions and
find them without merit.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK
MR.

JUSTICE

dissents.

DOUGLAS,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

MURPHY concurs, dissenting.
The Court has not shared the doubts which some of us
have had concerning the propriety of the judiciary acting
to nullify state legislation on the ground that it burdens
interstate commerce. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona,
325 U. S. 761, 784, 795, dissenting opinions. But the
policy of the Court is firmly established to the contrary.
Even in that view, however, this judgment should not
be reversed. The Court has held drummer taxes unconstitutional where they were discriminatory on their face
or where it appeared that necessarily or in practical op26 See, for the part played by itinerants in our history, Wright,
Hawkers and Walkers in Early America (1927). Peddlers were discriminated against in favor of town merchants as early as 1700.
Wright, supra, at 90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

eration they worked to the disadvantage of interstate
commerce. See McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309
U. S. 33, 45-46, note 2. But the present ordinance on its
face seems to reflect no more than a bona fide effort to
make interstate commerce pay its way. Western Live
Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 254. It treats
a solicitor for a Virginia manufacturer exactly the same
as it treats solicitors for manufacturers located in other
States. Under this type of tax, the solicitor for a Virginia manufacturer pays as much as Nippert, whether he
confines himself to one locality or works his way through
the State.
In that view a grant of immunity to Nippert is the grant
of a preference to interstate commerce.
The problem, however, does not end there. Best &
Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454. In that case, a North
Carolina tax on those who displayed goods in any hotel
room or temporary office in order to obtain retail orders
was applicable to solicitors representing local as well as
out-of-state distributors. We held that that parity of
treatment did not save the tax. We said that the tax must
be compared with the tax on the local retail merchantsthe "real competitors" of the out-of-state solicitor. Finding that the tax on the local retail merchants was lighter,
we held that the tax discriminated against the out-of-state
solicitor and was therefore invalid.
In the present case the tax on Nippert may or may not,
in practical operation, work to the disadvantage of this
interstate business. It would be one thing if Nippert's
business took her from town to town throughout the State.
But, so far as we know, Nippert may be a resident of Richmond working exclusively there, full or part time. In that
event, we could not determine the issue of discrimination
without knowing what taxes the retail merchants in Richmond must pay. If the facts were known, it might appear

U. S. v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT.
416

437

Syllabus.

that the tax, now struck down, in fact resulted in parity
of treatment between Nippert and her local competitors.
The record does not enlighten us on any of these matters.
I think that one who complains that a state tax, though
not discriminatory on its face, discriminates against interstate commerce in its actual operation should be required
to come forward with proof to sustain the charge. See
Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S.524, 534-537.
This does not, of course, require proof of the obvious.
But, as Mr. Justice Brandeis pointed out, cases of this
type should not be decided on the basis of speculation;
the special facts and circumstances will often be decisive.
Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 170-172.
Without evidence and findings we frequently can have
no "sure basis" for the informed judgment that is necessary for decision. Terminal Railroad Assn. v. Brotherhood of Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1, 8. That seems to me to
be the case here. Proof should be required to overcome
the presumptive validity of this local legislation as applied
to Nippert.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN UNION TRANSPORT, INC. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 44.

Argued October 11, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. A forwarder of freight for transshipment by common carriers by
water in foreign commerce, although not contractually or corporately affiliated with a common carrier by water, held to be "carrying on the business of forwarding . . . in connection with a common
carrier by water," hence an "other person subject to this Act"
within the meaning of § 1 of the Shipping Act of 1916, and therefore subject to the regulatory provisions of that Act. Pp. 441, 443.
2. The conclusion that independent forwarders are subject to the
Act's regulatory provisions is supported by the broad terms of

