U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
Syllabus.

512

payers and award them special tax exemptions which the
whole Act was designed to deny all other taxpayers who
did not happen to have tax litigation pending in September 1940. The proviso indicates no such purpose.
The proviso means what it says, that the enactment of
the 1940 Act was not to affect the tax liability of those
who had cases before the Board or courts, whatever that
tax liability under the earlier revenue laws. Under those
earlier laws as interpreted by us in the Wheeler case, the
distribution of General Motors stock to Fisher imposed on
him a tax liability which remained unaffected by the enactment of the 1940 statute.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. PIERCE AUTO FREIGHT
LINES, INC. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 74.

Argued January 28, 1946.-Decided March 11, 1946.

1. Each of two motor carriers made application to the Interstate
Commerce Commission under Part II of the Interstate Commerce
Act for a permit to operate between points A and C. One was
then operating between A and B; the other between B and C;
and they operated joint service between A and C by freight interchange. Each applicant opposed the other's application, and competing carriers opposed both. The applications were heard
separately by different joint boards but were dealt with by the Commission in a single report. Held that 'an order of the Commission
granting both applications was valid. Pp. 517, 523.
2. Neither the fact that the Commission dealt with both applications
in one report nor the fact that the Commission granted both applications invalidated its order. P. 523.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

327 U. S.

3. The Commission's disposition of the applications did not inject
into the proceedings as a "new issue" the question whether both
applications should be granted. P. 526.
4. That the Commission did not determine each case exclusively on
the record therein but considered the evidence in both proceedings
does not warrant invalidating its order, in the absence of any showing of specific prejudice. P. 528.
5. Where the Commission's report contains all the required findings, it is not obliged to annotate to each finding the evidence supporting it. P. 529.
6. The fact that an administrative agency has considered* matters
dehors the record does not invalidate its action unless substantial
prejudice is shown. P. 530.
7. The order of the Commission granting both applications was supported by the findings and the ^-dence. P. 530.
8. The Commission's ultimate finding as to the fitness and ability
of one of the applicants in this case was supported by a sufficient
basic finding and by evidence. P. 533.
9. Rehearings before administrative bodies are within their own discretion, and only the clearest abuse, not shown upon the record in
this case, will sustain an exception to the rule. Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co. v.: United States, 284 U. S. 248, distinguished. P. 534.
10. The Interstate Commerce Commission and not the reviewing court
is the arbiter of the paramount public interest. The judicial function is limited to ascertaining whether the order has support in the
law and in the record. P. 535.
57 F. Supp. 192, reversed.

Appeal from a decree of a district court of three judges,
which suspended an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and remanded the cause to the Commission
for a rehearing. 57 F. Supp. 192. Reversed, p. 536.
J. Stanley Payne argued the cause for the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton and Allen
Crenshaw.
DonaldA. Schafer argued the cause and filed a brief for
Consolidated Freightways, Inc. et al., appellants.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Win. P. Ellis argued the cause for appellees. With him
on the brief were Henry T. Ivers and Alfred A. Hampson.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The validity of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission is in question. The order granted to appellants, Consolidated Freightways, Inc., and OregonNevada-California Fast Freight, Inc., certificates of public convenience and necessity authorizing extensions of
their operations as motor carriers. Appellees, competing
carriers, some of whom are railway affiliates, were protestants in the proceedings before the Commission. They
successfully attacked the order in a specially constituted
District Court, on grounds questioning the sufficiency of
the findings and the evidence, as well as the propriety and
fairness of the Commission's procedure. The District
Court's decree, 57 F. Supp. 192, "suspended" the order and
remanded the cause to the Commission for rehearing although a stay pending appeal was denied.
The shortened statement of the major thing in controversy is whether the appellants, Consolidated and 0. N. C.,
properly were allowed by the Commission to substitute
wholly independent and competing through services between Portland, Oregon, and San Francisco, California,
for the service which they jointly rendered between
those cities, prior to the filing of these applications, by
interchanging freight at intermediate points. The protesting appellees were carriers competing with the joint
service of Consolidated and 0. N. C. and will be competitors of each, as those companies will be with each other,
if the Commission's order is sustained. This fact is the
source of the controversy and is important to bear in mind
for full understanding of the detailed facts and issues as
well as of what is ultimately at stake. Although each ap-

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

pellant originally sought exclusive authority to conduct
the proposed through operation in substitution for the
former joint service, and thus opposed the other's application, both now seek to sustain the Commission's order, as
of course does the Commission itself.
At the time of Consolidated's application in December,
1939, it operated various routes in the Northwest, some
extending eastward from the Portland and Seattle areas,
in addition to the joint service by interchange with 0. N. C.
southward from Portland to San Francisco.' Two of these
routes, comprising part of the latter service, extended from
Portland southerly to Medford and Klamath Falls, both
of which lie just north of the Oregon-California boundary
and were points of interchange with 0. N. C.' In so far
as it is now pertinent, Consolidated's application sought
permission to extend its operations from Medford and
Klamath Falls southward to San Francisco,' in other
words, over the portion of the route previously used in
the joint service for 0. N. C.'s operations.
'There are two main north-south highways between the San
Francisco and Portland areas, U. S. 101, the so-called Coast Route,
and U. S. 99, roughly parallel but some miles inland, called the Valley
Route. The joint service was conducted over the latter and the
applications of Consolidated and 0. N. C. each sought to extend
operations over this route.
2The
joint service followed Highway 99 from San Francisco nearly
to the northern boundary of California, from where part continued on
No. 99 to Medford and the remainder followed a separate highway
to Klamath Falls, this leg of the journey being made with 0. N. C.'s
equipment in both directions. Consolidated's "leg" between Portland at the north and Medford and Klamath Falls at the south followed different, but substantially parallel, highways, the westerly
route being No. 99.
3 Consolidated also sought authority to extend its service from
Marshfield, Oregon, to San Francisco over the Coast Route, see note
1, and from Lakeview, Oregon, to Redding, California, through
Alturas, California.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Conversely, at the time of 0. N. C.'s application in
January, 1940, it was operating from San Francisco to
Medford and Klamath Falls.' It sought to extend its operations from Medford to Portland and, as an alternative
slightly longer route, from Klamath Falls to Portland
through Goshen, Oregon.'
Thus, in effect, Consolidated and 0. N. C. each sought
to conduct operations independently throughout the entire distance between Portland and San Francisco.' The
occasion for the separate applications was 0. N. C.'s refusal to join an association of connecting carriers which
Consolidated was sponsoring
The applications were heard separately, as the statute
requires, before different joint boards.' However, because
4O. N. C. also operated a route from San Francisco to Elko,

Nevada.
50. N. C. also sought authority to serve Marshfield, Oregon, and
other points in the Coos Bay area.

The Commission stated in its report:

"...

0. N. C. and Con-

solidated have interchanged freight at Medford for over 11 years and
at Klamath Falls for over 6 years to give joint through service between
points served by each. Since July 1939 about one-third of the tonnage
has been handled through interchange of trailers. At first, the amount
of interchanged traffic was small and Consolidated's principal business
was of a local nature to and from Medford. Apparently, 0. N. C.'s
principal business also was local. The interchange business has since
increased until it far exceeds that of the local business."
7Although the president of Consolidated admitted at the hearing
that 0. N. C.'s refusal to join the association had a substantial influence in causing the filing of Consolidated's application, he could not
say whether or not that application would have been filed if 0. N. C.
had joined.
8
Section 205 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C.

ยง 305 (a). Apparently the reason that the two proceedings were not
consolidated and heard before one joint board arose from the fact

that, although the major issue, whether or not a through route between
San Francisco and Portland should be allowed, was common to both

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

they were so closely related in their common features, the
hearings were held at the same places and one application
was heard immediately after the other. Each applicant
intervened in the proceeding on the other's application,
and various parties, including the appellees,' appeared in
opposition in both proceedings. The parties stipulated
that much of the evidence presented in the 0. N. C. hearing should be introduced by reference into the Consolidated record. This included all of the appellees' affirmative evidence in opposition to the two applications. The
hearings thus were substantially coordinated, though not
technically consolidated, for the common features of the
applications.
As neither joint board could agree upon the recommendations to be made, both matters were referred to an
examiner. 0 In separate reports he recommended the denial of both applications. Division 5, with one commissioner dissenting, dealt with both in a single report. It
reversed the examiner in both cases and ordered that each
cases, certain other issues were not and, since some of the latter relating to 0. N. C. affected operations in Washington as well as in
Oregon and California, a differently constituted board was required
for making recommendations concerning them. Cf. American Trucking Ass'ns v. United States, 326 U. S. 77, 81-83.
9 There are five appellees. Pierce Auto Freight Lines, Inc., Los
Angeles-Seattle Motor Express, and Angelo Colletti (doing business
as Colletti Fast Freight), are common carriers by motor vehicle which
operate between Portland and San Francisco. Pacific Motor Trucking
Company is a subsidiary of Southern Pacific Company and performs
certain motor vehicle operations which are auxiliary to the rail services
of the Southern Pacific Railway. Pacific Southwest Railroad Association is an unincorporated association of railroads serving the Pacific
southwest territory, organized to protect rail interests as they may be
affected by motor carrier operations in that territory.
10 Section 205 (b) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C.
ยง 305 (b).

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

application be granted.1 ' Appellees' petition for rehearing
was denied. They thereupon brought this suit in the
District Court.'
The findings of fact and the court's opinion, 57 F. Supp.
192, disclose that it held the Commission's order invalid
on several grounds. One was that "the Commission considered the separate records as though the case was a
consolidated one. Evidence which appeared only in one
record was used by the Commission to support general
findings in the Report concerning both Consolidated and
0. N. C. In each proceeding embraced within the Report
and the Commission's order, evidence not offered or
received in such proceeding and not a part of the record
therein was drawn upon and considered by the Commission." The court also found that there was no evidence
in either record to support the Commission's finding that
"the present and future public convenience and necessity
require both the operations" by Consolidated and those by
0. N. C. (Emphasis added.) And it further found that
at no time in the proceeding had there been notice to the
parties, the witnesses, or the general public that both
": The certificate of public convenience and necessity granted to
Consolidated authorizes extensions of its routes from Medford and
Klamath Falls to San Francisco and also from Lakeview, Oregon, to
Redding, California. The certificate granted to 0. N. C. authorizes
extensions from Medford to Portland and from Klamath Falls to
Goshen, Oregon. In both cases, operation was thus authorized over
alternate highways. Cf. notes 3 and 5.
12 The District Court permitted Consolidated to intervene and file
an answer "with admissions and denials to the petition," but refused
to consider and ordered stricken the affirmative defenses which Consolidated set up. One of these was that the appellees were guilty of
laches in bringing the suit, since the certificates of public convenience
and necessity were issued in September, 1943, and the complaint was
not filed until January, 1944. Consolidated contends that the District
Court erred in striking the affirmative defenses. In the view that we
take of the case it is not necessary to consider this question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

applications might be granted; that indeed "the whole
basis of the original proceedings before the Joint Boards
was the question of whether any through-line operation
between San Francisco and Portland should be allowed
and, if so, which one of the two separate applications";
and that "no opportunity was given to plaintiffs to maintain their rights or to present appropriate protests and
defenses to the institution of two competing through-line
operations between San Francisco and Portland." (Emphasis added.) Finally the court held that in granting
both applications the Commission had not considered the
public interest and suggested that its denial of the petition
for rehearing was improper.1 8
For all these supposed errors the District Court suspended the Commission's order and remanded the cause
"for rehearing." In doing so it said: "This action will be
taken in order that all parties may be placed on notice as to
what type hearing will be held, whether joint or several,
and in order that appropriate findings be made as to
the public convenience and necessity which requires the
authorization of two new through-lines in competition
with each other and in competition with the other facilities, and also as to the ability of Consolidated to initiate
and maintain one of such lines in view of present conditions." (Emphasis added.) 57 F. Supp. at 198.
1

The District Court also found that "The Commission failed to

find, and there was no evidence in either record to support such a
finding, that each applicant was separately capable of equipping, main-

taining, and conducting the proposed operation in the face of competition from the other"; that "the Commission's Report fails to
disclose that it gave any consideration to the possibility of adverse
effect upon any plaintiff of the institution of two through-line competitive operations between San Francisco and Portland"; and that
"the Commission failed to find, and there is no evidence in either
record to support such a finding, that Consolidated is adequately

equipped to establish and maintain the proposed through-line operations under any conditions." These findings are considered below.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Obviously the court's objection was not to the manner
in which the proceedings were conducted prior to the time
when the hearings ended and the Commission took the
cases under consideration. Up to this point no fault is
found with what was done. The difficulty lay altogether,
in the court's view, with the way in which it thought the
Commission had considered the cases and reached its conclusions. And this arose entirely from the fact that the
Commission disposed of them in a single report, rather
than in separate ones for each case; and from the further
fact that it concluded that both applications should be
granted rather than that both should be denied or one
denied and one granted.
We are not informed, of course, whether the court
would have reached the same result if the Commission had
written separate reports in each case, arriving at the same
conclusions, although it seems suggested that any of the
other possible results would have been impeccable,
whether stated in separate reports or a single one. Obviously it was no sufficient ground for suspending the
Commission's order that it chose to write one report rather
than two, especially in matters as closely related as these,
if the single report together with the findings and the evidence was sufficient to sustain the action taken in each
case. It is not uncommon judicial practice to follow this
course.
Nor, with those conditions satisfied, could the mere fact'
that the Commission concluded to grant rather than to
deny both applications, or to grant one and deny the
other, invalidate its judgment. For each application
when it was filed sought to conduct the extended operation which it specified; 4 nothing in either foreclosed the
They were not the same, since the extension sought in each case
covered the portion of the joint route over which the other applicant
then was operating. But, of course, if one application had been
14

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

possibility that both might be granted, although for obvious reasons each applicant opposed the granting of the
other's extension; and from the beginning it was as much
a possible outcome that both applications would be
granted as that both would be denied or one be granted
and one denied. If therefore the Commission had written
separate reports in each case, reaching the same result, it
Jwould have been squarely within the issues and within
the outcomes comprehended from the beginning; and the
only questions for judicial consideration, absent some procedural deviation not now presented, would have been
the sufficiency of the findings and the evidence to sustain
its action in each case. We think those are the only
questions of any substance arising upon this appeal.
The District Court, however, regarded the Commission's
failure to write separate reports as indicating that it did
not consider each case separately and exclusively on its
own record, but looked to the evidence in both in forming
its judgment. This "approach" the court thought wrong,
not only as showing that the Commission considered evidence in each case which it had no right to take into account, but also as injecting a new and important issue in
both proceedings not previously regarded by the parties as
comprehended within the applications and the hearings.
The "new issue" thought to be thus injected was the possibility that both applications might be granted. From this
granted and one denied, the practical effect would have been to award
to the successful applicant the entire route of the prior joint service,
and thus to exclude the unsuccessful one at least from any share in the
joint operation; probably also from any practical opportunity of successful operation over its remaining "leg" of the previous joint service.
These considerations no doubt were influential in leading the Commission to conclude that either both applications should be granted or both
denied, since to grant one and deny the other, entirely apart from
considerations relating to so-called "grandfather rights," would work
obvious hardship on one. Cf. note 15.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

basic idea other errors were pyramided, among them that
the protesting appellees had been given no notice of the
kind of proceeding which would be held and had been deprived of any opportunity to present proper protests and
evidence relating to the allegedly newly injected issue.
The case has taken longer to state than the merits should
require for its disposition. Appellees plant themselves
here squarely on the District Court's objections to the
Commission's "approach" and procedure. Two principal
questions thus are presented: (1) Was evidence improperly considered by the Commission, so as to require
reversal of its order; and (2) were new issues injected by
its action in disposing of the cases with a single report?
Other issues more or less related may be shortly disposed of.
We put to one side, in the first place, the idea that the
Commission, by the manner in which it disposed of the
causes, injected as a "new issue" the question whether both
applications might be granted and with it the correlative
notions that the appellees had no notice that this issue
would be involved and no opportunity to make appropriate protests or to present evidence upon it. In a strict
view neither the appellees nor the court were entitled to
raise these questions. For it was not at any time suggested to the Commission, as it might have been upon
petition for rehearing, that the proceedings had been conducted on the theory that both applications would not be
granted. Appellees stated in their petition for rehearing
only that "Division 5 has erroneously and improperly
assumed that in granting one of the applications it is by
force of necessity required to grant the other . . . ." This
is very different from suggesting that the Commission was
not entitled at all to consider granting both applications.
It is highly questionable therefore whether the appellees
have not waived this question. But the District Court,

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

in raising it, has said that it was acting in protection of
the public interest and we pass therefore to consideration
of the issue on its merits.
The Commission did not, by the manner in which it
disposed of the cause, inject as a "new issue" the question
whether both applications might be granted. If the appellees actually assumed in the beginning that both applications could not be granted, their assumption was in
the teeth of the applications and the permissible outcomes
presented for the Commission's decision.
As has been said, the two applications were separately
instituted and heard. In the natural course of events
each joint board was to decide whether to grant or to deny
the particular application before it. The possibilities
therefore were that both applications might be denied,
that one might be granted and the other denied, or that
both might be granted. Moreover, the record contains
evidence showing that the possibility of granting both applications was in the minds of counsel and witnesses.:"
15One example is sufficient. The president of Consolidated was
asked:
"From your experience in watching the development of this joint
service, what do you expect the effect to be of the granting of this
application upon the existing carriers between San Francisco and
Medford, and San Francisco and Klamath Falls ?" He replied:
"Treating them separately, south of Medford, we have in our operation the Oregon-Nevada-California Fast Freight and the Pacific
Truck Express and the Pierce Auto Lines.
"The California Fast Freight are concurrently applying for the
right to extend their services north of Medford to Portland. The net
result of the granting of their application and our application would
be the splitting of the traffic between the two companies. We would
each take part of the present business we are now jointly handling,
and operate our equipment straight through.
"In my opinion, this will result in both of us operating about the
same number of vehicles, about the same number of miles; and if
our divisions of revenues of the past have been properly arranged,

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

And this possibility must have been apparent from the
beginning, not only from the history of the prior operations and the primary cause for their impending disruption, but also from the obvious relations of the applications to each other, the equally obvious consequences to
the applicants of granting one and denying the other, and
the Commission's recognition of these facts by the manner
in which it scheduled the hearings for substantially concurrent treatment. The parties too apparently gave
similar recognition to the questioned possible outcome
by their stipulation for the use of evidence in both
proceedings.
The issue concerning whether both applications should
be granted was injected, not by the Commission's report
or any other action taken by it, but by the filing of the
applications in the first place. If appellees misconceived
the nature of the proceedings in this respect, as we do not
think was the case, they were not misled into doing so by
any action of the Commission or the other appellants.
We turn therefore to the objections made on the score
of the Commission's findings and its treatment of the evidence. In our opinion they are equally untenable. The
we continue to gross about the same amount of revenue. It should
result in our both having a more profitable operation, as it will eliminate the present waste of checking, weighing, and transferring

freight at an intermediate point.
"The service would be improved and no doubt it would attract
more volume. That is a conjecture. At the present time, both companies are maintaining terminal facilities in San Francisco so on our
part it would mean very little increase in our terminal costs.
"It will mean an increase in terminal costs for the Oregon-NevadaCalifornia Fast Freight, but the cost of it would be offset, in my
opinion, by eliminating the cost of transferring the through freight
at Medford."

In its report, the Commission stated, "For reasonswhich are obvious
[see note 14], authority should be either granted or denied to both
applicants to operate over the Valley Route."

(Emphasis added.)

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

principal cause of complaint in these respects is that the
Commission did not consider each case exclusively on its
own record but looked to the evidence in both proceedings
in forming its judgment. If this is true and if it has
resulted in substantial prejudice to the appellees, as might
occur, for example, if the Commission were shown prejudicially to have considered evidence bearing on one case
which did not affect it and was presented in the other, and
which appellees were given no opportunity to meet, the
orders, or one of them, would be improperly grounded.
But no showing of this sort has been made. It is to be
recalled that all of the appellees, as well as both of the
applicants, were parties to both proceedings; were represented at all of the hearings, which were conducted at substantially the same times and places; and were given full
opportunity to present all evidence they considered pertinent, to cross-examine witnesses and otherwise to protect
their interests. Moreover, large portions of the evidence
applied as much to one application as to another. This
was true, for example, of the proofs relating to traffic conditions, shipper demands, the need for faster service and
mechanical refrigeration, and other items. In these circumstances it is difficult to see how appellees could have
sustained substantial prejudice from the Commission's
consideration of the evidence upon matters as closely
related as those in issue in these two proceedings.
Nor indeed do they succeed in showing such prejudice.
As we understand them, the most that they assert is that
the Commission's report so commingles the two cases that
it is impossible to determine which statements are supported by which record. But neither in the briefs, nor
upon specific inquiry at the argument, were they able to
point to any particular instance of prejudice. Nor in fact
does the opinion of the District Court, although it asserts
that the report is filled with numerous instances of this

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

sort. The assertion, we think, is colored by the court's
erroneous idea that the report first injected the question
whether both applications should be granted; and to the
same cause, it would seem, may be attributed the court's
undue discounting of the fact that upon this issue, as on.
the alternative possible outcomes, much of the evidence
was identical, made so by the parties' own stipulation. In
any event the appellees have not pointed to any specific
statement in the report which is obviously applicable to
both cases or which is required as a basic finding to support
the order in one, which is without support in both records
or in the one which is appropriate.
In the absence of any showing of specific prejudice, the
claim comes down to the highly technical objection that
the Commission, in the final stage of forming its judgment,
could not in either case take account of what had been
done in the other, notwithstanding the closely related
character and objects of the applications and the prior
proceedings. The contention in its farthest reach
amounts to a legal version of the scriptural injunction
against letting one's right hand know what one's left hand
may be doing.
Obviously it would be consistent neither with good sense
nor, we think, with the type of hearing assured by the
statute to force the Commission to put on such complete
blinders. Whatever may be the limits outside which it
cannot go in looking beyond the record in the particular
proceeding at the stage of formulating its judgment, none
certainly would go so far. And, given that the report contains all the essential findings required, cf. Florida v.
United States, 282 U. S. 194, the Commission is not compelled to annotate to each finding the evidence supporting it.
It is true that ordinarily an administrative agency will
act appropriately, in a proceeding of this sort, upon the

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

record presented and such matters as properly may receive
its attention through "official notice." 10 It is also true
that this Court, in appropriate instances, has limited the
use of the latter implement in order to assure that the
parties will not be deprived of a fair hearing. See United
States v. Abilene & Southern R' Co., 265 U. S.274,,286290; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S.88, 93-94. But in doing so it
has not undertaken to make a fetish of sticking squarely
within the four corners of the specific record in administrative proceedings or of pinning down such agencies,
with reference to fact determinations, even more rigidly
than the courts in strictly judicial proceedings. On the
contrary, in the one, case as in the other, the mere fact
that the determining body has looked beyond the record
proper does not invalidate its action unless substantial
prejudice is shown to result. Market Street R. Co. v.
RailroadComm'n, 324 U. S. 548, 561-562; cf. Opp Cotton
Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126, 154-155. In these
cases no more is necessary than to apply that rule.
The remaining objections are directed more appropriately to the findings and their support in the evidence.
Appellees say that the order granting both applications
is defective in that it is not founded upon an express
finding or indeed upon any finding that there was a need
for two through-line operations which would be in competition with one another. They urge that it was not
sufficient for the Commission to find, as it did on adequate
evidence, that the existing service between Portland and
San Francisco was inadequate; and to conclude, as the
report expressly stated, that in view of this fact, among
others, "public convenience and necessity require the op18Cf.

Judicial Notice by Administrative Tribunals (1934) 44 Yale
L. J. 355; Faris, Judicial Notice by Administrative Bodies (1928)
4 Ind. L. J. 167.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

erations set forth in our findings herein." 1' This statement was additional to the explicit conclusion already
noted I that the situation presented by the applications
was one which required either granting both or denying
both. And the findings expressly stated, concerning each
application, that the "present and future public convenience and necessity require" the extended operations. 9
Apart from the fact that this was all that the statute
required, cf. United States v. Detroit & Cleveland Navi17 The

Commission's report stated: "Of the motor-carrier protestants, there is only one-Pierce-which is authorized to transport general commodities to and from all intermediate points along the Valley
Route. Pierce did not reinstitute daily operation to and from San
Francisco, however, until after the filing of these applications and but
a few weeks prior to the hearings herein. Shipper witnesses generally
were unfamiliar with the fact that Pierce's operation was daily. There
are, of course, certain other motor carriers operating .over this route
but their authority is either (1) restricted in such a way as to preclude
a finding that their service is adequate especially as to intermediate
points, or (2) the record definitely establishes that their service to
intermediate points, and in some instances to and from San Francisco,
is at best negligible. In view of the foregoing, we are of the opinion
that public convenience and necessity require the operations set forth
in our findings herein."
18See note 14.
19 The Commission rested this ultimate finding in part upon the
following, statement as to the need for extended operations: "There
is no doubt but that a number of shippers desire such proposed services. Each applicant also operates units equipped with mechanical
refrigeration, which service certain of the shippers desire for the
proper transportation of their shipments. The proposed service will
enable shippers to obtain goods more rapidly, resulting in an increase
in their businesses. Some of the shippers estimate an increase in
business amounting to several thousand dollars. Practically all of the
witnesses prefer a single-line through service. Some of them have
used the services of existing carriers and have not found them satisfactory principally because of improper refrigeration or lack of service
to intermediate points." See also note 17. The Commission noted
in its report that the traffic between San Francisco and Portland was
increasing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

gation Co., 326 U. S. 236, and the further fact that there
can be no presumption that the Commission disregarded
the public or any other interest, there are two obvious
answers. One is that the Commission, in making the
separately stated findings, could not have been oblivious
to the competitive consequences of its order or the relation
of those consequences to the public interest.0 The other
is that those findings, read in the light of the report, adequately and expressly cover the element of public convenience and necessity, including the competitive factors
which the Commission inescapably had in mind. Only
the most hypercritical reading of the findings, and one
which ignores the report's explicit statements in many
respects, could construe them as meaning only that each
operation was required by public convenience and necessity without any regard to the competitive consequences
of granting both. The Commission should not be required to rewrite its report simply to say, redundantly we
think, that both operations, as well as each, are required
by public convenience and necessity.
Appellees further say that, even if the Commission was
correct in granting a certificate of public convenience and
necessity to 0. N. C., it improperly granted such a certificate to Consolidated. Section 207 (a) requires that the
Commission find "that the applicant is fit, willing, and
able properly to perform the service proposed" and the
District Court made a finding of fact that "the Commission failed to find, and there is no evidence in either record
to support such a finding, that Consolidated is adequately
equipped . . . under any conditions."
20 The Commission has recognized the value of reasonable competition, cf. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 35;
United States v. Detroit & Cleveland Navigation Co., 326 U. S. 236;
Inland Motor Freight v. United States, 36 F. Supp. 885; 44 M. C. C.
535, 548, in no case perhaps more clearly than in those presented on
this appeal. See also note 15.

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

The court undoubtedly did not mean that there was no
finding whatever as to fitness, willingness and ability, for
the Commission did make such a finding in the statutory language. What was obviously meant was that such
an ultimate finding was not enough, as of course it was
not, see Floridav. United States, supra, in the absence of
a basic finding to support it; and that there was no such
basic finding.
We do not agree, however, that there was no such basic
finding. The paragraph of the Commission's report set
out in the margin " was a sufficient finding, though inartistically drawn, concerning Consolidated's financial fitness
and ability. Nor was there a lack of evidence to support
this.22
- "Fitness.-There is no doubt as to 0. N. C.'s fitness, financial or
otherwise, to conduct the operations herein authorized, although protestants question Consolidated's financial ability to conduct the proposed operation. Protestants contend that if these applications are
granted each applicant will operate at a loss. Each applicant of
course claims that it will be better off if allowed to operate straight
through without the necessity of interchanging at Medford. Elimination of the cost of transfer at Medford would save approximately
fifteen or sixteen hundred dollars a month. Considering the fact
heretofore discussed in some detail, we are of the opinion that we
should give applicants the benefit of any doubts that may exist as to
whether they could operate successfully over the routes authorized
herein." See also note 22.
22
It is true that in 1939 Consolidated had approximately $215,000
of current liabilities in excess of current assets and had hypothecated
a great deal of equipment as a means of obtaining capital. Nevertheless, from its inception the company had been financed largely out of
earnings and in every year but 1932 had been able to earn profits.
Moreover, there was ample testimony that its service was satisfactory
and reliable. There was evidence also from which the Commission
could find that the additional financial burden which would be imposed by granting Consolidated's application could be met by that
company. The amount of additional capital investment needed for
terminals and equipment was doubtful. But there was testimony that

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Finally, the District Court remanded the cases for rehearing in order for the Commission, among other things,
to determine Consolidated's fitness "to initiate and maintain one of such lines in view of present conditions." This
action was unwarranted. The records in the two proceedings were closed in October, 1940. The Commission issued
its report and order on March 1, 1943. A petition for rehearing was filed by the appellees and other protestants
on April 30, 1943, and was denied by the Commission on
August 2, 1943.2 The certificates were issued on September 7 and 15, 1943. Suit was brought in the District Court
on January 13, 1944. The court rendered its decision on
September 20, 1944, suggesting that the Commission had
improperly denied the petition for rehearing. Its view
was that the record was so stale, particularly in view of
the influence of the war upon transportation facilities,
that application of the doctrine of Atchison, T. & S. F. R.'
Co. v. United States, 284 U. S.248, was proper.
That case, as has been indicated more than once,
was "promptly restricted . . . to its special facts, United

States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 288 U. S.490, and it
the intermediate cash outlay necessary for new terminals at Oakland
and Sacramento would not be more than $12,000 and that, if additional
equipment were needed, Consolidated was in a position to furnish it
and have it financed. In addition, because of the considerable distance covered by the new through route, Consolidated would be able
to make "a profitable load factor."
On this and other evidence we cannot say that the Commission's
finding as to the financial ability of Consolidated to undertake the new
service lacked support in the record. For us or the District Court to
do so would be to invade the Commission's proper function.
23 In its exceptions to the examiner's report, 0. N. C. asked that
the proceeding be reopened because of many changes that had occurred since the closing of the record. In its report, the Commission
stated: "In its exceptions, 0. N. C. also requests a further hearing,
but in view of our conclusions herein it is doubtful whether it would
still desire such further hearing. Its request for further hearing is
hereby denied."

U. S. v. PIERCE AUTO LINES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

stands virtually alone." Interstate Commerce Commission v. Jersey City, 322 U. S. 503, 515; see also Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 389. Except in the single instance, it has been held consistently
that rehearings before administrative bodies are addressed
to their own discretion. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Jersey City, supra. Only a showing of the clearest
abuse of discretion could sustain an exception to that rule.
The Commission was well acquainted with the impact of
the war upon facilities for transport and upon the transportation business in general. In addition to its own expert knowledge concerning such matters, it had before it
not only the facts set forth in the petition for rehearing 24
but also those alleged in the extended replies filed by the
applicants.
We think the court misconceived not only the effects of
the Commission's action in these cases but also its own
function. It is not true, as the opinion stated, that "...
the courts must in a 'litigated case, be the arbiters of
the paramount public interest." 25 This is rather the
24 The petition alleged, in part, that "new motor vehicle common
carrier operations such as are authorized by the order and which
duplicate adequate existing operations are forbidden by orders of the
Office of Defense Transportation"; that "since orders of the Office of
Defense Transportation prohibit speeds in excess of 35 miles per hour,
and the promised service would require consistent highway speeds
averaging 521/2 miles per hour outside of cities and other restricted
areas, it is certain the service proposed and authorized cannot and
will not be given, nor can any service faster than that of existing
operators be rendered"; and that "all controlling statements of fact
relied upon by the division to sustain its conclusions were as of the
date of the report and are now entirely and completely untrue . . ."
25 The full sentence is as follows: "While it is true that problems
such as these can only be brought to the courts when private interests
conceive there has been injury of rights of property, and although
the field of judicial review of administrative determination has been
narrowly confined, the courts must in a litigated case, be the arbiters
of the paramount public interest." 57 F. Supp. 192, 196.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

business of the Commission, made such by the very terms
of the statute. The function of the reviewing court is
much more restricted. It is limited to ascertaining
whether there is warrant in the law and the facts for what
the Commission has done. Unless in some specific respect
there has been prejudicial departure from requirements
of the law or abuse of the Commission's discretion, the
reviewing court is without authority to intervene. It cannot substitute its own view concerning what should be
done, whether with reference to competitive considerations or others, for the Commission's judgment upon
matters committed to its determination, if that has support in the record and the applicable law.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissents.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
CHERRY COTTON MILLS, INC. v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 187.

Argued December 14, 1945.-Decided March 25, 1946.

1. Under 28 U. S. C. 250 (2) giving the Court of Claims jurisdiction
to hear and determine "All set-offs, counterclaims . .. or other
demands whatsoever on the part of the Government . . . against
any claimant against the Government in said Court," it is within
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, in a suit against the Government for a refund of taxes, to hear and determine a counterclaim of
the Government based upon a debt owed by claimant to the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation. P. 539.
2. That Congress chose to call the R. F. C. a corporation does not
alter its characteristics so as to make it something other than it

