LAVENDER v..
KURN.
633

645

Statement of the Case.

as to protect those described in the indictments as collecting funds by coercion, through their control over jobs, for
their own personal advantage at the expense of the wage
earner, the labor union, and the taxpayer.
LAVENDER, ADMINISTRATOR, v. KURN
TRUSTEES, ET AL.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 550.

Argued March 6, 7, 1946.-Deciaed March 25, 1946.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
evidence of the defendants' negligence (detailed in the opinion)
was sufficient to justify submission of the case to the jury; and
the judgment of the appellate court setting aside the verdict for
the plaintiff can not be sustained. P. 652.
2. There being a reasonable basis in the record for an inference by
the jury that the injury resulted from the defendants' negligence,
it is not within the province of the appellate court to weigh the conflicting evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and arrive at a
conclusion opposite from that reached by the jury. P. 652.
3. In suits under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the appellate
court's function is exhausted when the evidentiary basis for the
jury's verdict becomes apparent, it being immaterial that the
court might draw a contrary inference or consider another conclusion more reasonable. P. 653.
4. Only when there is a complete absence of probative facts to support the conclusion reached by the jury does reversible error appear.
P. 653.
5. The jury could reasonably have inferred from the evidence in
this case that the place at which the employee of the carrier was
.working, though technically a public street, was unsafe and that
this circumstance contributed in part to the employee's death.
P. 653.
6. In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, rulings on
the admissibility of evidence must normally be left to the sound discretion of the trial judge. P. 654.
354 Mo. 196, 189 S. W. 2d 253, reversed.

In a suit brought in a state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act by petitioner against the respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ents, a judgment for the petitioner was reversed by the
Supreme Court of the State. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 713. Reversed, p. 654.
N. Murry Edwards argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were James A. Waechter and Douglas H. Jones.
Cornelius H. Skinker, Jr. argued the cause for Kurn et
al., respondents. With him on the brief were Maurice
G. Roberts and Alexander P. Stewart.
Wm. R. Gentry argued the cause for the Illinois Central
Railroad Co., respondent. With him on the brief were
C. A. Helsell and John W. Freels.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act permits recovery
for personal injuries to an employee of a railroad engaged
in interstate commerce if such injuries result "in whole
or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents,
or employees of such carrier, or by reason of any defect or
insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines,
appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats,
wharves, or other equipment." 45 U. S. C. ยง 51.
Petitioner, the administrator of the estate of L. E.
Haney, brought this suit under the Act against the respondent trustees of the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway
Company (Frisco) and the respondent Illinois Central
Railroad Company. It was charged that Haney, while
employed as a switch-tender by the respondents in the
switchyard of the Grand Central Station in Memphis,
Tennessee, was killed as a result of respondents' negligence. Following a trial in the Circuit Court of the City
of St. Louis, Missouri, the jury returned a verdict in favor
of petitioner and awarded damages in the amount of

LAVENDER v. KURN.
645

Opinion of the Court.

$30,000. Judgment was entered accordingly. On appeal,
however, the Supreme Court of Missouri reversed the
judgment, holding that there was no substantial evidence
of negligence to support the submission of the case to the
jury. 354 Mo. 196, 189 S. W. 2d 253. We granted certiorari to review the propriety of the Supreme Court's action under the circumstances of this case.
It was admitted that Haney was employed by the Illinois Central, or a subsidiary corporation thereof, as a
switch-tender in the railroad yards near the Grand Central
Station, which was owned by the Illinois Central. His
duties included the throwing of switches for the Illinois
Central as well as for the Frisco and other railroads using
that station. For these services, the trustees of Frisco
paid the Illinois Central two-twelfths of Haney's wages;
they also paid two-twelfths of the wages of two other
switch-tenders who worked at the same switches. In
addition, the trustees paid Illinois Central $1.872 for each
passenger car switched into Grand Central Station, which
included all the cars in the Frisco train being switched into
the station at the time Haney was killed.
The Illinois Central tracks run north and south directly past and into the Grand Central Station. About
2,700 feet south of the station the Frisco tracks cross at
right angles to the Illinois Central tracks. A west-bound
Frisco train wishing to use the station must stop some 250
feet or more west of this crossing and back into the station
over a switch line curving east and north. The events in
issue center about the switch several feet north of the main
Frisco tracks at the point where the switch line branches
off. This switch controls the tracks at this point.
It was very dark on the evening of December 21, 1939.
At about 7:30 p. m. a west-bound interstate Frisco passenger train stopped on the Frisco main line, its rear some
20 or 30 feet west of the switch. Haney, in the perform-'
ance of his duties, threw or opened the switch to permit

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the train to back into the station. The respondents
claimed that Haney was then required to cross to the
south side of the track before the train passed the switch;
and the conductor of the train testified that he saw Haney
so cross. But there was also evidence that Haney's duties
required him to wait at the switch north of the track until
the train had cleared, close the switch, return to his shanty
near the crossing and change the signals from red to green
to permit trains on the Illinois Central tracks to use the
crossing. The Frisco train cleared the switch, backing at
the rate of 8 or 10 miles per hour. But the switch remained open and the signals still were red. Upon investigation Haney was found north of the track near the
switch lying face down on the ground, unconscious. An
ambulance was called, but he was dead upon arrival at
the hospital.
Haney had been struck in the back of the head, causing
a fractured skull from which he died. There were no
known eyewitnesses to the fatal blow. Although it is not
clear, there is evidence that his body was extended north
and south, the head to the south. Apparently he had
fallen forward to the south; his face was bruised on the
left side from hitting the ground and there were marks
indicating that his toes had dragged a few inches southward as he fell. His head was about 51/2 feet north of
the Frisco tracks. Estimates ranged from 2 feet to 14 feet
as to how far west of the switch he lay.
The injury to Haney's head was evidenced by a gash
about two inches long from which blood flowed. The back
of Haney's white cap had a corresponding black mark
about an inch and a half long and an inch wide, running
at an angle downward to the right of the center of the
back of the head. A spot of blood was later found at a
point 3 or 4 feet north of the tracks. The conclusion following an autopsy was that Haney's skull was fractured
by "some fast moving small round object." One of the

LAVENDER v. KURN.
645

Opinion of the Court.

examining doctors testified that such an object might have
been attached to a train backing at the rate of 8 or 10
miles per hour. But he also admitted that the fracture
might have resulted from a blow from a pipe or club or
some similar round object in the hands of an individual.
Petitioner's theory is that Haney was struck by the
curled end or tip of a mail hook hanging down loosely on
the outside of the mail car of the backing train. This
curled end was 73 inches above the top of the rail, which
was 7 inches high. The overhang of the mail car in relation to the rails was about 2 to 21/ feet. The evidence
indicated that when the mail car swayed or moved around
a curve the mail hook might pivot, its curled end swinging
out as much as 12 to 14 inches. The curled end could thus
be swung out to a point 3 to 31/2 feet from the rail and
about 73 inches above the top of the rail. Both east and
west of the switch, however, was an uneven mound of
cinders and dirt rising at its highest points 18 to 24 inches
above the top of the rails. Witnesses differed as to how
close the mound approached the rails, the estimates varying from 3 to 15 feet. But taking the figui'es most favorable to the petitioner, the mound extended to a point 6
to 12 inches north of the overhanging side of the mail car.
If the mail hook end swung out 12 to 14 inches it would
be 49 to 55 inches above the highest parts of the mound.
Haney was 671/2 inches tall. If he had been standing on
the mound about a foot from the side of the mail car he
could have been hit by the end of the mail hook, the exact
point of contact depending upon the height of the mound
at the particular point. His wound was about 4 inches
below the top of his head, or 63 inches above the point
where he stood on the mound-well within the possible
range of the mail hook end.
Respondents' theory is that Haney was murdered.
They point to the estimates that the mound was 10 to
15 feet north of the rail, making it impossible for the mail

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

hook end to reach a point of contact with Haney's head.

Photographs were placed in the record to support the
claim that the ground was level north of the rail for at
least 10 feet. Moreover, it appears that the area immediately surrounding the switch was quite dark. Witnesses
stated that it was so dark that it was impossible to see a
3-inch pipe 25 feet away. It also appears that many
hoboes and tramps frequented the area at night in order
to get rides on freight trains. Haney carried a pistol to
protect himself. This pistol was found loose under his
body by those who came to his rescue. It was testified,
however, that the pistol had apparently slipped out of
his pocket or scabbard as he fell. Haney's clothes were
not disarranged and there was no evidence of a struggle
or fight. No rods, pipes or weapons of any kind, except
Haney's own pistol, were found near the scene. Moreover, his gold watch and diamond ring were still on him
after he was struck. Six days later his unsoiled billfold
was found on a high board fence about a block from the
place where Haney was struck and near the point where
he had been placed in an ambulance. It contained his
social security card and other effects, but no money. His
wife testified that he "never carried very much money,
not very much more than $10." Such were the facts in
relation to respondents' theory of murder.
Finally, one of the Frisco foremen testified that he arrived.at the scene shortly after Haney was found injured.
He later examined the fireman's side of the train very
carefully and found nothing sticking out or in disorder.
In explaining why he examined this side of the train so
carefully he stated that while he was at the scene of the
accident "someone said they thought that train No. 106
backing into Grand Central Station is what struck this
man" and that Haney "was supposed to have been struck
by something protruding on the side of this train." The
foreman testified that these statements were made by an

LAVENDER v. KURN.
645

Opinion of the Court.

unknown Illinois Central switchman standing near the
fallen body of Haney. The foreman admitted that the
switchman "didn't see the accident . . ." This testimony

was admitted by the trial court over the strenuous objections of respondents' counsel that it was mere hearsay
falling outside the res gestae rule.
The jury was instructed that Frisco's trustees were liable
if it was found that they negligently permitted a rod or
other object to extend out from the side of the train as it
backed past Haney and that Haney was killed as the direct
result of such negligence, if any. The jury was further
told that Illinois Central was liable if it was found that the
company negligently maintained an unsafe and dangerous
place for Haney to work, in that the ground was high and
uneven and the light insufficient and inadequate, and that
Haney was injured and killed as a direct result of the said
place being unsafe and dangerous. This latter instruction as to Illinois Central did not require the jury to find
that Haney was killed by something protruding from the
train.
The Supreme Court, in upsetting the jury's verdict
against both the Frisco trustees and the Illinois Central,
admitted that "It could be inferred from the facts that
Haney could have been struck by the mail hook knob if he
were standing on the south side of the mound and the mail
hook extended out as far as 12 or 14 inches." But it held
that "all reasonable minds would agree that it would be
mere speculation and conjecture to say that Haney was
struck by the mail hook" and that "plaintiff failed to make
a submissible case on that question." It also ruled that
there "was no substantial evidence that the uneven ground
and insufficient light were causes or contributing causes of
the death of Haney." Finally, the Supreme Court held
that the testimony of the foreman as to the statement
made to him by the unknown switchman was inadmissible
under the res gestae rule since the switchman spoke from
what he had heard rather than from his own knowledge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

We hold, however, that there was sufficient evidence of
negligence on the part of both the Frisco trustees and the
Illinois Central to justify the submission of the case to the
jury and to require appellate courts to abide by the verdict
rendered by the jury.
The evidence we have already detailed demonstrates
that there was evidence from which it might be inferred
that the end of the mail hook struck Haney in the back
of the head, an inference that the Supreme Court admitted could be drawn. That inference is not rendered unreasonable by the fact that Haney apparently fell forward toward the main Frisco track so that his head was
5 feet north of the rail. He may well have been struck
and then wandered in a daze to the point where he fell
forward. The 'testimony as to blood marks some distance
away from his head lends credence to that possibility, indicating that he did not fall immediately upon being hit.
When that is added to the evidence most favorable to the
petitioner as to the height and swing-out of the hook, the
height and location of the mound and the nature of
Haney's duties, the inference that Haney was killed by
the hook cannot be said to be unsupported by probative
facts or to be so unreasonable as to warrant taking the
case from the jury.
It is true that there is evidence tending to show that it
was physically and mathematically impossible for the
hook to strike Haney. And there are facts from which it
might reasonably be inferred that Haney was murdered.
But-such evidence has become irrelevant upon appeal,
there being a reasonable basis in the record for inferring
that the hook struck Haney. The jury having made that
inference, the respondents were not free to relitigate the
factual dispute in a reviewing court. Under these circumstances it would be an undue invasion of the jury's
historic function for an appellate court to weigh the conflicting evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses and

LAVENDER v. KURN.
645

Opinion of the Court.

arrive at a conclusion opposite from the one reached by
the jury. See Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318
U. S. 54, 67-68; Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319
U. S. 350, 353-354; Tennant v. Peoria&P. U. R. Co., 321
U. S. 29, 35. See also Moore, "Recent Trends in Judicial
Interpretation in Railroad Cases Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act," 29 Marquette L. Rev. 73.
It is no answer to say that the jury's verdict involved
speculation and conjecture. Whenever facts are in dispute or the evidence is such that fair-minded men may
draw different inferences, a measure of speculation and
conjecture is required on the part of those whose duty it
is to settle the dispute by choosing what seems to them
to be the most reasonable inference. Only when there is
a complete absence of probative facts to support the conclusion reached does a reversible error appear. But where,
as here, there is an evidentiary basis for the jury's verdict,
the jury is free to discard or disbelieve whatever facts are
inconsistent with its conclusion. And the appellate
court's function is exhausted when that evidentiary basis
becomes apparent, it being immaterial that the court
might draw a contrary inference or feel that another
conclusion is more reasonable.
We are unable, therefore, to sanction a reversal of the
jury's verdict against Frisco's trustees. Nor can we approve any disturbance in the verdict as to Illinois Central.
The evidence was uncontradicted that it was very dark
at the place where Haney was working and the surrounding
ground was high and uneven. The evidence also showed
that this area was entirely within the domination and
control of Illinois Central despite the fact that the area
was technically located in a public street of the City of
Memphis. It was not unreasonable to conclude that these
conditions constituted an unsafe and dangerous working
place and that such conditions contributed in part to
Haney's death, assuming that it resulted primarily from
the mail hook striking his head.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

In view of the foregoing disposition of the case, it is
unnecessary to decide whether the allegedly hearsay testimony was admissible under the res gestae rule. Rulings
on the admissibility of evidence must normally be left to
the sound discretion of the trial judge in actions under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. But inasmuch as there
is adequate support in the record for the jury's verdict
apart from the hearsay testimony, we need not determine
whether that discretion was abused in this instance.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is reversed and the case is remanded for whatever further
proceedings may be necessary not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE REED dissents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in

or decision of this case.

the consideration

