CAIII v. CENTRAL VICTORIA, LTD.
466

469

Syllabus.

ures reasonably adapted to promote the purpose. The
denaturing in order to render the making and sale of
industrial alcohol compatible with the enforcement of
prohibition of alcohol for beverage purposes is not always
effective. The ignorance of some, the craving and the
hardihood of others, and the fraud and cupidity of still
others, often tend to defeat its object. It helps the main
purpose of the Amendment, therefore, to hedge about the
making and disposition of the denatured article every
reasonable precaution and penalty to prevent the proper
industrial use of it from being perverted to drinking it.
The conclusion is fully supported by the decisions of this
Court in Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U.,'S. 264, 282, and
National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350, Par. 11. See
also Huth v. United States, 295 Fed. 35, 38.
Affirmed.
CAMI, COMMISSIONER v. CENTRAL VICTORIA,
LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 370.

Submitted April 30, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.

1. Certiorari will not ordinarily be granted to review decisions of
the Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining decisions of the Supreme
Court of Porto Rico on local questions; but where the judgment
of the Court of Appeals is a reversal, this Court cannot sustain a
decision of the Porto Rico court without plausible grounds merely
because the question is local. P. 470.
2. Porto Rican Act No. 9, of May 12, 1920, ยง 49, provides that
municipal revenues shall embrace license taxes provided by Act
No. 26, of March 28, 1914, "hereby declared to be in force", and
"(f) any other . . . tax" that may be levied by two-thirds
of the municipal assembly the object or matter of which is not
also the object of any federal or insular tax. Held that a municipal
tax of ten cents per cwt. on sugar manufactured in the municipality
is unauthorized, because taxation of the business of sugar mills is

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

governed, and limits affixed, by the license tax provision in the
Act of 1914. P. 471:
295 Fed. 809, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Porto Rico refusing to prevent collection of a
municipal tax.

Mr. E. B. Wilcox, with whom Mr. Juan B. Soto was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Francis G. Caffey, with whom Mr. George W.
Study was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to prevent the collection of a tax imposed
by a municipal ordinance of Carolina, Porto Rico, on the
ground that the ordinance is void. The Supreme Court
of the Island upheld the tax, 30 P. R. 413, but the judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 295
Fed. 809, following its decision on the same day in Successors of C. & J. Fantauzzi v. Municipal Assembly of
Arroyo, 295 Fed. 803. A writ of certiorari was granted
by this Court. 265 U. S. 577. Had the Circuit Court
of Appeals deferred to the local interpretation of Porto
Rican statutes, we should not have granted a writ. We
repeatedly have stated the reason for such deference, and
we believe that the appellate jurisdiction was granted
with other ends in view than that of setting the local
courts right in their interpretation of their own laws.
But since the case has been decided the other way we
cannot avoid dealing with the merits and we should not
be warranted in reversing the decision under review unless
we thought either that it was wrong or at least that there
was such plausible ground for the judgment reversed by
it, that the local decision ought not to be disturbed.

CAMI v. CENTRAL VICTORIA, LTD.
469

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Porto Rico expressed an intelligible doubt whether a bill for an injunction would lie
in this class of cases, but no error was assigned on that
ground, and in view of our opinion on the merits there is
no sufficient reason for opening that question. When we
come to the merits we are compelled to agree with the
Circuit Court of Appeals as we understand the reasoning
of that Court.
On February 17, 1921, the ordinance complained of was
passed, and imposed a tax of ten cents on every hundredweight of sugar manufactured in the municipality. The
statutes affecting the power to levy this tax are set out
more fully in the principal opinion below. We give only
those that immediately determine the result. The Porto
Rican Act No. 9 of May 12, 1920, ยง 49, provides that
the municipal revenues shall consist of (d) License taxes
provided by Act No. 26, of March 28, 1914, "which is
hereby declared to be in force." "(f) Any other impost,
excise or tax that may be levied by two thirds of the
members of the municipal assembly, provided that the
object or matter of taxation is not also the object or
matter of any federal or insular tax." The Act of 1914
included in its Group C the business of sugar and molasses
mills among those that municipalities were empowered to
tax, and proceeded: "The rates of taxation for Group C
are made as follows: For each $1,000 or fraction thereof
in excess of the first $500 of volume of business transacted,
up to $1,000,000 inclusive $0.25 a year," and over that,
$0.125. As the Act of 1914 is taken up into that of 1920,
it is difficult for us to believe that in one paragraph the
latter Act gave power to tax up to a specified maximum
and in another a general power limited only by the other
principles of taxation. Therefore when in ยง 49 (f) the
later Act allows 'any other impost, excise or tax' we
think it must be taken to mean any tax on other objects
of taxation not any other tax on those for which a limit
already definitely is prescribed.

