OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

ascertaining the truth, there can be no estoppel." Brant
v. Virginia Coal & Iron Co., 93 U. S. 326, 336-337; Crary
v. Dye, 208 U. S. 515, 521; Westbrook v. Guderian, 3
Tex. Civ. App. 406; Hunter v. Malone, 49 Tex. Civ. App.
116, 121; Bender v. Brooks, 130 S. W. 653, 657; Barclay
v. Dismuke, 202 S. W. 364, 365; Pomeroy's Eq., 4th ed.,
sec. 807. There was no laches on Roberts' part in asserting his claim after the company purchased. He soon
went to the land with a surveyor to run out his lines
and make his claim known, but was prevented from doing
so by an armed guard. With reasonable promptness he
brought a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce his rights. Proceedings in that suit were soon suspended by reason of this receivership, and he promptly
asserted his claim here.
An order will be entered overruling the exceptions, confirming the master's report and directing payment of the
royalty interest to Roberts and Britain. The costs will
be adjusted in the order.
Claim of Roberts and Britain sustained.
Claim of Durfee Mineral Company denied.
COCKRILL ET AL. v. PEOPLE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO

CALIFORNIA

DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL,

THIRD

APPELLATE DISTRICT.

No. 182. Argued March 6, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.
By the California Alien Land Law, under which acquisition, use or
control of agricultural land is forbidden to aliens not eligible to
citizenship under the laws of the United States and interests which
such persons can not take are to escheat to the State when conveyed with intent to avoid that result, it is provided that a
prima facie presumption that conveyance is made with that intent shall arise upon proof of the taking of the property in the
name of a person not inhibited if the consideration is paid, or

COCKRILL v. CALIFORNIA
258

Opinion of the Court.

agreed or understood to be paid, by an alien of the disqualified
classes-In a prosecution for conspiracy to violate the statute,
where the conveyance was taken by an American citizen and the
consideration paid by an ineligible Japanese, but with intent, as
it was claimed, that the interest should be held for his children,
who were American citizens by birth, held; That the statutory presumption of intent is consistent with the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment and with
the provision of the treaty with Japan guaranteeing to the subjects of the parties to it protection of persons and property and
enjoyment in that respect of the rights and privileges granted
native citizens. Pp. 261, 262.
62 Cal. App. 22, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the California District Court
of Appeal affirming a sentence for conspiracy to violate
the Alien Land Law of that State. The Supreme Court
of California had refused a petition for review.

Mr. Algernon Crofton, with whom Mr. CharlesA. Wetmore, Jr., was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. L. Guerena for defendant in error. Messrs. U.
S. Webb, Attorney General of. California, Frank English,
John H. Riordan and J. Charles Jones, Deputy Attorneys General, were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiffs in error were convicted in the superior court
of Sonoma County, California, of conspiracy to effect a
transfer of real property in violation of the Alien Land
Law of that State. Judgment was affirmed by the district court of appeal. 62 Cal. App. 22. A petition to
have the case heard and determined in the Supreme Court
of California was denied. The case is here on writ of
error. ยง 237, Judicial Code.
Under the Alien Land Law, Japanese subjects who are
not eligible to citizenship under the laws of the United

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

States are not permitted to acquire, use or control agricultural lands in California. Statutes of California, 1921,
p. lxxxiii. Treaty of February 21, 1911, 37 Stat. 1504.
Porterfield v. Webb, 263 U. S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien,
263 U. S.313; Frick v. Webb, 263 U. S.326; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197. Section 9 provides: "Every
transfer of real property, or of an interest therein, though
colorable in form, shall be void as to the state and the
interest thereby conveyed or sought to be conveyed shall
escheat to the state if the property interest involved is
of such a character that an alien mentioned in section
two hereof Tone not eligible to citizenship under the laws
of the United States] is inhibited from acquiring, possessing, enjoying or transferring it, and if the conveyance
is made with intent to prevent, evade or avoid escheat
as provided for herein. A prima facie presumption that
the conveyance is made with such intent shall arise upon
proof of

.

.

the taking of the property in the name

.

of a person other than the persons mentioned in section
two hereof if the consideration is paid or agreed or understood to be paid by an alien mentioned in section
two hereof;

.

.

."

Section 10 provides that, if two

or more persons conspire to effect a transfer of real property or of any interest therein in violation of the provisions of the statute, they shall be punishable by fine
or imprisonment or both.
Plaintiff in error Cockrill is an American, and Ikada
is a Japanese subject not eligible to citizenship. They
entered into an agreement to purchase certain agricultural lands and to take title in the name of Cockrill.
Ikada furnished the money which was paid on account
of the purchase price, and, upon the making of the contract., took possession of the property. Cockrill had no
interest in the land; and the prosecution maintained that
he made the contract with the seller and intended to
take the deed and hold the land in trust for Ikada. But

COCKRILL v. CALIFORNIA.
258

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs in error represented that the land was being
acquired for and was to be owned by the children of
Ikada, who are natives of the United States and entitled
to take and hold such lands. See Estate of Tetsubumi
Yano, 188 Cal. 645, 649. The court included in its charge
to the jury the above quoted provisions of section 9.
Plaintiffs in error assert that the rule of evidence so declared violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and also the treaty between the
United States and Japan.
It is not, and could not reasonably be, suggested that
the statute is repugnant to the due process clause. It
does not operate to preclude any defense. The inference that payment of the purchase price by one from
whom the privilege of acquisition is withheld and the
taking of the land in the name of one of another class
are for the purpose of getting the control of the land
for the ineligible alien is not fanciful, arbitrary or unreasonable. There is a rational connection between the
facts and the intent authorized to be inferred from them.
The statute involves no attempt to relieve the prosecution of the burden of proving guilt beyond reasonable doubt. It merely creates a presumption which may
be overcome by evidence sufficient to raise a reasonable
doubt. See Yee Hem v. United States, ante, p. 178;
Mobile, J. & K. C. R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35,
43; People v. Rodriguez, 182 Cal. 197.
The statute is not repugnant to the equal protection
clause. The rule of evidence applies equally and without discrimination to all persons-to citizens and eligible
aliens as well to the ineligible. In the application of
the law at the trial, no distinction was made between
the citizen and the Japanese. Plaintiffs in error maintain that invalidity results from the fact that., where
payment of the purchase price is made by an ineligible
alien, the law creates a presumption of a purpose to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

vent, evade br avoid escheat, while no such presumption
arises where such payment is made by a citizen or eligible
alien. But there are reasonable grounds for the distinction. Conveyances to ineligible Japanese are void as
to the State and the lands conveyed escheat. Payment
by such aliens for agricultural lands taken in the names
of persons not of that class reasonably may be given a
significance as evidence of intent to avoid escheat not
attributable to like acts of persons who have the privilege of owning such lands. The equal protection clause
does not require absolute uniformity, or prohibit every
distinction in the laws of the State between ineligible
aliens and other persons within its jurisdiction. The
State has a wide discretion and may classify persons on
bases that are reasonable and germane having regard
to the purpose of the legislation. Truax v. Corrigan,
257 U. S. 312, 337. This is well illustrated by the Alien
Land Laws. Terrace v. Thompson, supra, 218; Porterfield v. Webb, supra, 233; Webb v. O'Brien, supra, 324;
Friclk v. Webb, supra, 333. The fact that in California all privileges in respect of the acquisition, use and
control of the land for agricultural purposes are withheld from ineligible Japanese constitutes a reasonable and
valid basis for the rule of evidence.
It is the third paragraph of Article I of the treaty that
plaintiffs in error contend is violated. The treaty provision is, "The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall receive, in the territories of the
other, the most constant protection and security for their
persons and property, and shall enjoy in this respect
the same rights and privileges as are or may be granted
to native citizens or subjects, on their submitting themselves to the conditions imposed upon the native citizens or subjects." It is plain that the treaty does not
furnish any protection to Japanese subjects in this country against the application of a rule of evidence created

