ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
189

203

Syllabus.

On the contrary, it declares that persons licensed to grade
under it shall not be interested in any grain elevator or
in buying or selling grain, or be in the employ of any
owner or operator of a grain elevator. Equally unrelated
to inspection are the provisions exacting a bond to pay
for all wheat bought on credit; requiring that a record be
kept of the price paid in buying at the local elevator and
the price received in selling at the terminal market; and
authorizing the State Supervisor to investigate and supervise the marketing with a view to preventing unreasonable margins of profit. None of these finds any example
in the federal Act; and their presence in the state Act
makes it a very different measure from what it would be
without them. Aside from the adoption of the grades
established and promulgated under the federal Act, we
find little in the state Act to support and much to refute
the assertion that it is merely an attempt to carry out
the purposes of the federal Act.
For the reasons .here given we hold that the Act is a
direct regulation of the buying of 'grain in interstate commerce, and therefore invalid, and that the District Court
rightly granted the injunction.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JuSTIcE BRANDEIS dissents.

ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 103 and 327. Argued October 23, 1924.-Decided May 4, 1925.
1. A State may not impose upon a foreign corporation which transacts only interstate business within her borders an excise tax measured by a combination of the total value of capital shares attributed to transactions therein, and the proportion of net income
attributed to such transactions. Mass. Gen. Ls. c. 63. P. 216.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Massachusetts.

268 U. S.

2. Any excise laid on account of interstate commerce is invalid,
without regard to measure or amount. P. 217.
3. Under the Commerce Clause and the Fourteenth Amendment, a
State may not burden interstate commerce or tax property beyond her borders under the guise of regulating or taxing intrastate
business; the amount demanded is unimportant, and payment as
a condition precedent to doing business is not a controlling element. Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts 231 U. S. 68, 87, in
part disapproved. P. 218.
248 Mass. 156; 244 Id. 530, reversed.

ERROR to judgments of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts sustaining excise taxes imposed on the
plaintiff in error corporation.
Mr. Louis H. Porter, with whom Messrs. F. Carroll
Taylor and John G. Palfrey were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alexander Lincoln, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Jay R. Benton, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the defendant in error.
The tax, so far as measured by the value of the corporate excess employed within the Commonwealth, is
valid as to foreign corporations engaged solely in interstate commerce. It is well established that property of
a non-resident located within a State is subject to taxation by it, although the property is used exclusively in
interstate commerce, except when it is actually in the
course of an interstate journey, if the tax is laid without discrimination. Apparently the petitioner concedes
the application of this rule to tangible personal property, but contends that the rule is otherwise with respect
to intangible assets such as a corporate franchise and
credits due from residents. So far as the franchise is concerned, the point seems to be concluded by the decisions
of this court. Atlantic & Pac. Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia,
190 U. S. 160; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

205

Argument for Massachusetts.

U. S. 305; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155
U. S. 688, 696.
The objection to a tax on credits due from residents to
non-residents may be based upon the contention either
that intangible property is not subject to the foregoing
rule or that a tax on such credits is in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. As to the second point it is
submitted that the petitioner is concluded by numerous
decisions sustaining state taxation of credits due to nonresidents. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National D'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388;
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Neu, Orleans, 205 U. S.
395; Liverpool, etc., Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221
U. S. 346, 354; Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 52.
The fact that such credits arise from and are used exclusively in interstate commerce, it is submitted, makes
no difference. The rule with respect to the taxation of
property used in interstate commerce does not distinguish
between tangible and intangible property. The validity
of the tax does not depend on the connection of the property with some local business but on the remoteness of
any burden or effect upon interstate commerce. See
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530;
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688;
Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S.
194, 222; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S.
450, 456; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330.
If a tax on tangible and intangible assets, including the
corporate franchise of a foreign corporation, employed in
a State, although employed exclusively in interstate commerce, is valid, an excise tax measured by such property
should also be valid. A tax measured by property may
be valid when a tax on the property itself would be invalid. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co. 220 U. S. 107, 165; Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 87. But the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

converse is not true. This Court has on several occasions
held that such a tax is in effect a tax on property and
therefore in no respect repugnant to the Federal Constitution. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts,
supra.
The tax, so far as measured by net income derived
from business within the Commonwealth, is valid as to
foreign corporations engaged solely in interstate commerce. The income of a non-resident is subject to taxation within the State where it was earned or accrued.
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37; Travis v. Yale & Towne
Mfg. Co. 252 U. S. 60. Such a tax does not constitute
a direct interference with interstate commerce. Peck v.
Lowe, 247 U. S. 165, 174, 175; United States Glue Co. v.
Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 326-329; Shaffer v. Carter,
supra.; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254
U. S. 113, 119, 120; Atlantic Coast Line v. Daughton,
262 U. S. 413, 416, 420. See also Schwab v. Richardson,
263 U. S. 88; Transport & Terminal Co. v. New Orleans,
264 U. S. 150, dissent; 32 Harv. L. R. 634-640, 646-649;
12 Calif. L. R. 39-44. Cf Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 59.
The taxes assessed were measured by the value of property used and net income earned within the Commonwealth.
Mr. Basil Robillard filed a brief as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Plaintiff in error claims that the Commonwealth
illegally exacted of ft $800.45 as an excise tax for the year
1921, and $567.57 plus $22.97 interest for 1922.. The
court below upheld the tax and definitely ruled that it was
not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment or the Commerce Clause of the federal Constitution. 244 Mass. 530;

ALPHA CEMENT'CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

207

Opinion of the Court.

248 Mass. 156. With negligible exceptions the assessments followed the Corporation Tax Law (Gen. Acts
1919, c. 355), now codified in Gen. Laws, c. 63. Chapters
361 and 493, Gen. Acts 1921, are subsidiary and demand
no particular notice. Record No. 327 discloses how the
assessments were calculated; also the essential facts hereinafter stated. The opinion in No. 103 discusses the
findamental questions of law; the later one is supplementary and explanatory.
The statute provides that "every foreign corporation
shall pay annually, with respect to the carrying on or
doing of business by it within the Commonwealth, an
excise equal to the sum of . . . five dollars per thousand upon the value of the corporate excess employed by
it within the Commonwealth " and "two and one-half
per cent. of that part of its net income . . . which is derived from business carried on within the Commonwealth;" provided that the total tax shall be not less
than an amount equal to one-twentieth of one per cent.
of such proportion of the fair cash value of its capital
stock as its assets employed within the State shall bear to
the total assets. Annual returns, and additional information when demanded, must be filed with the Commissioner. He is empowered to determine, under prescribed
rules, the net portion of income from business within the
State. But if dissatisfied any corporation may file "a
statement in such detail as the Commissioner shall require, showing the amount of its annual net income derived from business carried on within the Commonwealth." Credit for five per cent. of dividends paid to
inhabitants of the State is authorized. Pertinent portions
of the general statute are in the margin.*
Section 39. Every foreign corporation shall pay annually, with
respect to the carrying on or doing of business by it within the
commonwealth, an excise equal to the sum of the following, pro*"

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

We accept the following statements in the opinion below: "The petitioner is a corporation organized under
the laws of New Jersey. Its business is the manufacture
and sale of cement. Its principal office is at Easton,
Pennsylvania. Its mills are located in several other
States outside of Massachusetts, from which shipments
are made to various parts of the United States and to
foreign countries. It maintains an office in Boston 'in
charge of a district sales manager, with a clerk, where its
correspondence and other natural business activities in
connection with the receipt of orders and shipments of
goods for the New England States are conducted. The
vided that every such corporation shall pay annually a total excise
not less in amount than one twentieth of one per cent of such proportion of the fair cash value of all the shares constituting its
capital stock as the assets, both real and personal, employed in any
business within the commonwealth on April first following the close
of the taxable year, bear to the total assets of the corporation employed in business on said date:
"(1) An amount equal to five dollars per thousand upon the value
of the corporate excess employed by it within the commonwealth.
"(2) An amount equal to two and one half per cent of that part
of its net income, as defined in section thirty and in this section,
which is derived from business carried on within the commonwealth .... "
"Section 30 ....
'Corporate excess employed within the commonwealth' by a foreign corporation, [shall mean] such proportion of
the fair cash value of all the shares constituting the capital stock
on the first day of April when the return called for by section thirtyfive is due as the value of the assets, both real and personal, employed in any business within the commonwealth on that date,
bears to the value of the total assets of the corporation on said
date. . ..
"'Net income,' . . . [shall mean] the net income for the taxable
year as required to be returned by the corporation to the federal
government under the federal revenue act of nineteen hundred and
eighteen," less interest on obligations of the United States.
"Section 41. The commissioner shall determine in the manner provided in this section the part of the net income of a foreign corpora-

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

209

Opinion of the Court.

office is used as headquarters for travelling salesmen, who
solicit orders in Massachusetts and the other New England States. Orders so taken are transmitted at the
Boston office by mail to the principal office at Easton,
Pennsylvania, where exclusively they are passed upon,
and if accepted, the goods are shipped and invoices sent
directly to the customer. Remittances usually are made
to the petitioner at Easton, though in exceptional instances prepayments or collections are made by the salesmen and immediately transmitted to Easton. No samples
or other merchandise are kept in this Commonwealth.
tion derived from business carried on within the commonwealth ....
The net income as defined in section thirty [less certain credits not here involved] shall be allocated as follows: If a
foreign business corporation carries on no business outside this
commonwealth, the whole of said remainder shall be allocated
to this commonwealth. If a foreign business corporation carries
on any business outside this commonwealth, the net income taxable under this chapter shall be determined as provided in section
thirty-eight."
"Section 38.... 2. If the corporation carries on any business
outside the commonwealth, the said remainder shall be divided into
three equal parts:
"(a) Of one third, such portion shall be attributed to business
carried on within the commonwealth as shall be found by multiplying said third by a fraction whose numerator is the value of the
corporation's tangible property situated within the commonwealth
and whose denominator is the value of all the corporation's tangible
property wherever situated.
"(b) Of another third, such portion shall be attributed to business carried on within the commonwealth as shall be found by
multiplying said third by a fraction whose numerator is the expenditure of the corporation for wages, salaries, commissions or
other compensation to its employees, and assignable to this commonwealth as hereinafter provided, and whose denominator is the
total expenditure of the corporation for wages, salaries, commissions or other compensation to all its employees.
"(c) Of the remaining third, such portion shall be attributed to
business carried on within the commonwealth as shall be found

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The only property of the petitioner in Massachusetts is
its office furniture, valued at $573. It maintains no bank
account here, its salaries and office rent being paid from
its principal office. Incidental expenses are paid from an
account not exceeding $1,000 kept by the district sales
manager in his own name. No corporate books, records,
or meetings are in Massachusetts. There is no controversy as to the facts, valuations or computation of the
tax. The issues between the parties relate solely to the
correct interpretation of our corporate tax law as to

foreign corporations and to the constitutionality of that
by multiplying said third by a fraction whose numerator is the
amount of the corporation's gross receipts from business assignable
to this commonwealth as hereinafter provided, and whose denominator is the amount of the corporation's gross receipts from all its
business.
"3. In a case where only two of the foregoing three rules are
applicable, the said remainder of net income of the corporation shall
be divided into two equal parts only, each of which shall be apportioned in accordance with one of the remaining two rules. If only
one of the three rules is applicable, the part of the net income received from business carried on within the commonvealth shall be
determined solely by that rule.
"4. The value of the corporation's tangible property for the purposes of this section shall be the average value of such property during the taxable year.
"5. The amount assignable to this commonwealth of expenditure
of the corporation for wages, salaries, commissions or other compensation to its employees shall be such expenditure for the taxable
year as represents the compensation of employees not. chiefly situated at, connected with or sent out from premises for the transaction of business owned or 'rented by the corporation outside the
commonwealth.
"6. The amount of the corporation's gross receipts from business
assignable to this commonwealth shall be the amount of its gross
receipts for the taxable year from (a) sales, except those negotiated
or effected in behalf of the corporation by agents or agencies chiefly
situated at, connected with or sent out from premises for the transaction of business owned or rented by the corporation outside the

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v.MASSACHUSETTS.
203

211

Opinion of the Court.

It is rightly
law in its application to the petitioner ....
petitioner
that
the
conceded by the Attorney General
was engaged in this Commonwealth exclusively in interstate commerce."
Having ascertained the necessary items, the Comptroller made the calculations indicated below. The corporation's total net income returned for federal taxation,
after allowances, amounted to $707,577.98; $7,602,090.21
(although not quite accurate) was treated as the total
value of intangible assets.
commonwealth and sales otherwise determined by the ccmmissioner
to be attributable to the business conducted on such premises, (b)
rentals or royalties from property situated, or from the use of
patents, within the commonwealth; provided, that upon application
by a corporation which owns or controls substantially all the capital
stock of another corporation, or by the corporation so owned or
controlled, the commissioner may impose the tax provided for by this
chapter upon the income of the two corporations jointly in the
same manner as though they were a single corporation, or may, in
such other manner as he shall determine, equitably adjust the tax
of the applying corporation ...
"9. A rule shall not be deemed to be inapplicable merely because
all the tangible property or the expenditure of a corporation for
wages, salaries, commissions or other compensation, or the gross
receipts of the corporation, are found to be situated, incurred, or
received without the commonwealth."
"Section 75. In addition to the methods provided by sections
seventy-two and seventy-three [distraint or action in contract],
taxes under this chapter, except section sixty-two [not here involved], may be collected by an information brought in the Supreme
Judicial Court by the attorney general at the relation of the state
treasurer. The Court may issue an injunction upon such information, restraining the further prosecution of the business of the company, association or corporation until such taxes, with interest and
costs thereon, have been paid; but no telegraph company accepting
the provisions of section fifty-two hundred and sixty-three of the
Revised Statutes of the United States shall be enjoined from constructing, maintaining cr operating a telegraph line over and along
any of the military or post roads of the United States within this
commonwealth."

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Amount of tax measured by net income.
Average value of tangible property in Mass.,
$573. Divide this by average value all tangible property, $16,992,355.22; multiply resulting fraction by $235,859.33 (1/3 of $707,577.98,
$8.02
supra) ...................................
Wages, salaries, etc., assignable to Mass.,
$11,493.38. Divide this by amount of all
wages, salaries, etc., $1,650,614.73; multiply
resulting fraction by $235,859.33 (1/3 of
=1 ,642.29
............
$707,577.98, supra) ..........
Gross receipts assignable to Mass., $343,204.60. Divide this by gross receipts from all
business, $10,717,546.43; multiply resulting
fraction by $235,859.33 (/3 of $707,577.98,
=7, 552.22
supra) ...................................
$9, 202.53
Net income ............................
21/2% of $9,202.53 ............... $230. 06
Less 5% of dividends paid Mass.
42.15
inhabitants ..................
Total according to income ...............

$187.91

Amount of tax measured by corporateexcess.
Income assigned to Massachusetts, as above shown,
$9,202.53. Divide this by $707,577.98 (entire apportionable net income); multiply resulting fraction by $7,602,090.21 (used for total intangible assets). This yields
$98,827.17, which was taken as the value of intangible
assets assignable to Massachusetts. The tangible assets,
$573, were added and $99,400 became the total accepted
value of assets assignable to the State.
Cash value of the company's capital stock was fixed at
$16,352,162; all assets $21,406,098. Divide $99,400 by

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

213

Opinion of the Court.

$21,406,098; multiply resulting fraction by $16,352,162;
the result is 875,932.08-the "corporate excess." Five
dollars per thousand upon this is $379.66.
Total Assessment for 1922 ($187.91 plus $379.66),
$567.57.
In the course of its opinion the court below said"This tax law, placing as it does both domestic and
foreign corporations on common ground as to taxation
except so far as essential differences require different
treatment in details, follows the policy established in this
Commonwealth for many years of levying an excise instead of a property tax on corporate franchises and corporate transaction of business. Eaton, Crane & Pike Co.
v. Commonwealth, 237 Mass. 523.
"The general scheme of this tax law is that an excise
is levied on both domestic and foreign business corporations doing business in this Commonwealth. Real estate and machinery used in manufacture by such corporations alone are subject to a local property tax in the
city or town where situated. All other personal property, whether tangible or intangible, is exempt from direct or local taxation. The amount of the excise tax is
measured as to a foreign corporation, ยง 39, by the sum
of 'An amount equal to five dollars per thousand upon
the value of the corporate excess employed by it within
the Commonwealth,' and 'An amount equal to two and
one half per cent of that part of its net income, as defined in section thirty and in this section, which is derived from business carried on within this Commonwealth,' with a further provision that a minimum tax
[shall be paid] of not less than one twentieth of one per
cent of such proportion of the fair cash value of its shares
of capital stock as its assets employed in business in this
Commonwealth bear to its total assets employed in business. . ..

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

"The statute is an attempt to measure the excise on
foreign corporations solely by the property and net income fairly attributable to the business done within this
Commonwealth. This excise tax is in place of any other
tax on personal property within the Commonwealth
from which, except as to machinery used in manufacture
or in supplying and distributing water, foreign corporations (and also domestic corporations) are expressly exempted by G. L. c. 59, ยง 5, cl. 16.
"The present tax act imposes the excise with respect
to the carrying on of business by foreign corporations
within the Commonwealth. It is an excise for the privilege of having a place of business under the protection of our laws and with the financial, commercial and
other advantages flowing therefrom, measured solely by
the property and net income fairly attributable to the
business done here by a foreign corporation. The excise
is measured by two factors, (1) the value of the corporate excess employed within the Commonwealth, and (2)
the net income derived from business within the Commonwealth.
" 1. The value of the corporate excess employed in
the Commonwealth as a factor of the tax is not measured by the capital stock of the corporation. If it were,
it would be invalid. International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135. It is measured by the value of
the property of the foreign corporation, including its franchise, employed in the Commonwealth, after certain deductions are made. It seems to us that this factor of
the tax stands under the protection of several decisions
of the Supreme Court of the United States. .
"It is manifest as matter of common business knowledge that commerce within this Commonwealth yielding
to the petitioner annual gross receipts of $424,982.70 must
have involved credits, bills receivable and obligations to
it of considerable amounts. No contention to the con-

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

215

Opinion of the Court.

trary has been urged by the petitioner. Such credits,
bills receivable and obligations might be made subject
to direct taxation within the Commonwealth by appropriate legislation under numerous decisions of the United
States Supreme Court. Such credits, bills receivable and
obligations constitute a part of 'the value of the assets'
[its] business
.
of the petitioner 'employed in .
within the Commonwealth' used as the basis of ascertaining 'the corporate excess' of the petitioner' employed
within the Commonwealth' upon which this factor of the
excise is calculated.
"2. The tax, as measured by the net income from business transacted in Massachusetts as a factor, is dependent upon net profits derived solely from interstate commerce. But there is no discrimination in the statute
against interstate commerce. This net income is used
as a measure applicable to all corporations alike. While
not an income tax according to strict definition, in substance it affects net income alone, is measured by net
income alone, is reasonable in amount and incidence, and
is payable out of net income. .
"The tax considered as a whole with both its main
factors is general in nature and reasonable in amount.
The tax upon the petitioner in substance and effect, so
far as concerns the factor of its corporate excess employed
within the Commonwealth, is levied upon its tangible
personal property within the Commonwealth, upon the
credits due it from debtors within this Commonwealth,
and upon the exercise of its franchise within this Commonwealth, and, so far as concerns the factor of its income, upon the net income derived from business in this
Commonwealth after all losses and expenses have been
.paid. It is not directed against interstate commerce or
property outside the State but is confined to business
done, property located, capital employed and net income
earned within the Commonwealth. It affects interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

commerce indirectly and is not an immediate burden upon
it.. It affords to the State only a fair and reasonable
revenue for the maintenance of the government, the benefits from the protection of which the petitioner enjoys.
Our conclusion is that the law thus construed, as applying to a foreign corporation using a part of its property
exclusively for interstate commerce within the Commonwealth, violates no guaranty established by the Constitution of the United States. The tax statute, therefore,
is interpreted as applying to a corporation engaged in
business within the Commonwealth as is the petitioner."
Counsel for the Commonwealth assert: "The present
tax law imposes an excise on foreign corporations for the
privilege of doing business in Massachusetts under the
protection of its laws and with the financial, commercial
and other advantages flowing therefrom, measured solely
by the property and net income fairly attributable to the
business done within the State. Payment of the tax is
not made a condition precedent to the doing of business.
Collection of the tax is to be made by ordinary methods.
There is no discrimination either against foreign corporations or against interstate commerce." "The taxes complained of were excises and not property taxes." "Being
excises these taxes are not taxes on property or net income, but taxes measured by property and net income,
used in or derived from business done in Massachusetts."
See Judson Freight Forwarding Co. v. Commonwealth,
242 Mass. 47.
This view of the nature of the exaction was adopted
by the court below, and we think it is the correct one.
The right to lay taxes on tangible property or on income
is not involved; and the inquiry comes to this: May a
State impose upon a foreign corporation which transacts.
only interstate business within her borders an excise tax
measured by a combination of two factors-the proportion of the total value of capital shares attributed to

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

217

Opinion of the Court.

transactions therein, and the proportion of net income
attributed to such transactions?
Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147,
153, 154, necessitates a negative reply. Under St. 1909,
c. 490, Part III, ยง 56, the State demanded an excise
of a foreign corporation which transacted therein only
interstate business. The excise was laid upon the corporation and the basis of it the same as in the present
cause. This court said: "We think the tax on this company was essentially a tax on doing an interstate business and therefore repugnant to the commerce clause."
Here also the excise was demanded on account of interstate business. A new method for measuring the tax
had been prescribed, but that cannot save the exaction.
Any such excise burdens interstate commerce and is
therefore invalid without regard to measure or amount.
Looney v. Crane, 245 U. S.178, 190; InternationalPaper
Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 142; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 259; Texas Transport & Terminal Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150.
International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts considered
an excise upon a corporation doing both local and interstate business, measured by its capital stock. St.
1909, c. 490; St. 1914, c. 724. Pertinent cases were cited
and discussed and the tax declared "unconstitutional and
void as placing a prohibited burden on interstate commerce and laid on property of a foreign corporation located and used beyond the jurisdiction of the State."
Payment as a condition precedent to the doing of any
business was not a controlling circumstance. The opinion
recognizes the State's right to demand excises of foreign
corporations in respect of intrastate business unless the
exaction is really a tax on interstate business or property
beyond the State. Under this principle certain of the
complaining corporations in Cheney Brothers Co. v.
Massachusetts, supra, were properly taxed. Plaintiff in

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

error did no local business, and there was no proper
foundation for the excise.
It must now be regarded as settled that a State may
not burden interstate commerce or tax property beyond
her borders under the guise of regulating or taxing intrastate business. So to burden interstate commerce is
prohibited by the Commerce Clause; and the Fourteenth
Amendment does not permit taxation of property beyond
the State's jurisdiction. The amount demanded is unimportant when there is no legitimate basis for the tax.
So far as the language of Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 87, tends to support a different
view it conflicts with conclusions reached in later opinions
and is now definitely disapproved.
Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275, 282, et
seq., pointed out the limitations which must be observed when property used in interstate commerce is
valued for purposes of taxation by a State. We there declined to follow the rule applied in Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 26, and held that
determination of real value with fair accuracy is essential.
Many methods adapted to that end have been accepted,
but this does not tend to support an excise laid iipon a
foreign corporation on account of interstate transactions.
The local business of a foreign corporation may support an excise measured in any reasonable way, if neither
interstate commerce nor property beyond the State is
taxed. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254
U. S. 113, approved such an excise measured by income
reasonably attributed to intrastate business; but nothing
there said was intended to modify well established principles. It must be read with the essential facts in mind.
Local business was a sufficient basis for the excise, and
there was no taxation of interstate commerce or property
beyond the State. Of course, the opinion does not support the suggestion that the present statute is free from

ALPHA CEMENT CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
203

219

Opinion of the Court.

the fatal objections to the former one because payment
of the tax is no longer a condition precedent to carrying
on any business. It cites approvingly St. Louis S. W.
Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 364; and there this
court said"So far as the commerce clause is concerned, it seems
to us that the principles upon whose application the present decision must depend are those set forth in Postal
Tel. Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 695, where the
court, by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, .said: 'It is settled
that where by way of duties laid on the transportation
of the subjects of interstate commerce, or on the receipts
derived therefrom, or on the occupation or business of
carrying it on, a tax is levied by a State on interstate
commerce, such taxation -amounts to a regulation of
such commerce and cannot be sustained. But property
in a State belonging to a corporation, whether foreign or
domestic, engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, may
be taxed, or a tax may be imposed on the corporation on
account of its property within a State, and may take the
form of a tax for the privilege of exercising its franchises
within 'the State, if the ascertainment of the amount is
made dependent in fact on the value of its property situated within the State (the exaction, therefore, not being
susceptible of exceeding the sum which might be leviable
directly thereon), and if payment be not made a condition precedent to the right to carry on the business, but
its enforcement left to the ordinary means devised for
the collection of taxes.'"
The excise challenged by plaintiff in error is not materially different from the one declared unconstitutional
in Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, and cannot
be enforced against a foreign corporation which does
nothing but interstate business within the State. The
introduction of an extremely complicated method for calculating the amount of the exaction does not change its
nature or mitigate the burden.

