MID-NORTHERN CO. v. MONTANA.
39

Syllabus.

upon a finding made without evidence, The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263, or upon a finding made
upon evidence which clearly does not support it, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R., 222
U. S. 541, 547, is an arbitrary act against which courts
afford relief. The error under discussion was of this
character. It was a denial of due process. Compare
New York & Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345,
348. The invalidity was not avoided by making the
order, in terms, for an experimental period. The rates
as to which the evidence was primarily directed were
those in force before and during the hearings. If even
the existing rates were confiscatory, as the carriers' evidence embodying the results of ample experience tended
to show, there could be no reason for awaiting the test
of the much lower rates which were prescribed. The
cases which applied the principle of awaiting the result
of an experimental period for untried rates have no application here. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas, 212 U. S.
19; Northern Pacific Railway v. North Dakota, 216 U. S.
579; Cedar Rapids Gas Light v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S.
655; Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 225 U. S.
430, 436; Brush Electric Co. v. Galveston, 262 U. S. 443.
Reversed.
MID - NORTHERN OIL COMPANY v. J. W.
WALKER, AS TREASURER, JOSEPH M. DIXON,
GOVERNOR, AND C. T. STEWART, SECRETARY,
OF THE STATE OF MONTANA, ET AL.
ERROR TO IHE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 256.

Argued March 9, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. Assuming that a private corporation engaged in producing oil
from public lands as lessee of the United States under the Leasing
Act of February 25, 1910, is a governmental agency, means or
instrumentality such that an annual license tax measured by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argulrient for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

percentage of the gross value of the annual production can not
without the consent of Congress be imposed by the State in which
the operations are conducted,-held that consent was given
by the act, § 32, in the proviso "That nothing in this Act shall
be construed or held to affect the rights of the States or other
local authority to exercise any rights which they may have, including the right to levy and collect taxes upon improvements, output
of mines, or other rights, property, or assets of any lessee of the
United States." P. 4.
2. Ejusdem generis is a rule of construction, to be used to ascertain
the intent of the law-makers and not to subvert it when ascertained. P. 49.
65 Mont. 414; 68 id. 550, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
of Montana sustaining a state license tax in a suit brought
by the Oil Company to enjoin its enforcement.

Mr. FrederickD. Anderson, with whom Messrs. Charles
S. Thomas and Donald Campbell were on the brief, for
the plaintiff in error.
No license, occupation or privilege tax can lawfully
be imposed by a State upon a governmental agency,
means or instrumentality. The plaintiff in error, acting
as a lessee of oil and gas lands from the United States,
is a governmental agency, means or instrumentality.
The disposal of public lands by governmental oil and
gas lease is the performance of a trust by the United
States and an exercise of governmental power such as
cannot be controlled or interfered with by the States.
The Montana tax lays such a burden or interference as
to render it invalid.
The Act of February 25, 1920, (The Leasing Law)
does not by its terms grant to the State the power to
impose the License Tax in question. The statute confirms the existing rights of the States. It adds nothing
to them. The right to tax the governmental agency,
means or instrumentality is inconsistent with the whole
purpose and object of the leasing law and is not conferred

MID-NORTHERN CO. v. MONTANA.
45

Opinion of the Court.

by it. The phrase "other rights" refers to property uf
an intangible or special nature subject to a property tax.
The proviso clause in § 32 is introduced out of abundant
caution to remove all doubt of the intention of Congress.
Assuming the language of § 32 to be uncertain and doubtful, it cannot confer the right, to tax operations of plaintiff
in error. The history of the legislation shows that Congress intended the distribution of royalties to be in lieu
of the extensive right of taxation belonging to the States
under the public mining laws.
Messrs. C. E. Pew, L. A. Foot, Attorney General of
the State of Montana, and A. H. Angstman, Assistant
Attorney General, were on the brief for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the Oil Company to enjoin
the enforcement of an annual license tax imposed by a
state statute (Montana Revised Codes, 1921, §§ 23972408) ' upon persons producing petroleum, etc., equal to
one per centum of the gross value of the oil produced
during the year. The statute, as applied to the company, is assailed as invalid, upon the ground that the
company, by assignment of the original leases, is a lessee
of the United States of certain public lands entered as
homesteads but not yet granted by patent, upon which it
'2398.

Oil license tax. Every person engaging in or carrying on

the business of producing, within this state, petroleum,
must, for the year 1921, and each year thereafter, when engaged in
or carrying on any such business in this state, pay to the state
treasurer, for the exclusive use and benefit of the state of Montana,
license tax for engaging in and carrying on such business, in an
amount equal to one per centum of the total gross value of all
petroleum and other mineral or crude oil produced by such person
within this state during such year; . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

is engaged in prospecting for and producing crude petroleum, under the provisions of the Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, c. 85, 41 Stat. 437, and, therefore, "is a
governmental agency, means or instrumentality whose
operations cannot be taxed by the state." The state
supreme court held otherwise. 65 Mont. 414; 68 Mont.
550.
Whether the company under its leases is an agency,
means or instrumentality of the United States, or in the
absence of congressional consent would be outside the
reach of state taxation, we need not stop to consider,
since we are of opinion that the authority of the state
exists in virtue of such consent. Section 32 (41 Stat.
450) of the act contains the following proviso: "Provided, That nothing in this Act shall be construed or held
to affect the rights of the States or other local authority
to exercise any rights which they may have, including the
right to levy and collect taxes upon improvements, output of mines, or'other rights, property, or assets of any
lessee of the United States."
The contention on behalf of the company is that this
proviso, which saves from the effect of any possible adverse construction of the act, rights of the states "which
they may have," relates to, and is confirmatory of, existing'rights only,-that is to say, rights existing when
the act was passed. But we find nothing in the body of
the act which, by any stretch of meaning, purports to detract from or render less certain any such preexisting
rights; and, in that view, the theory advanced fails for
want of material upon which to operate. It fairly cannot
be supposed that Congress would indulge in the altogether idle ceremony of enacting a law to save rights
which, being in no way challenged or affected, stood in no
need of being saved. The more natural view, and the one
we adopt, is that Congress, having provided for leasing
the public lands to private corporations and persons whose

MID-NORTHERN CO. v. MONTANA.
45

Opinion of the Court.

property, income, business and occupations ordinarily
were subject to state taxation, meant by the proviso to
say in effect that, although the act deals with the letting
of public lands and the relations of the government to the
lessees thereof, nothing in it shall be so construed as to
affect the right of the states, in respect of such private
persons and corporations, to levy and collect taxes as
though the government were not concerned. In other
words, the purpose of Congress was to remove altogether
from the field of controversy, among other questions, the
very question which is here presented, and to put beyond
doubt the authority of the states to impose taxes upon
lessees in respect of their property, although arising from,
and in respect of their taxable rights, although exercised
under, the act, without regard to the origin thereof or to
the interest of the United States in the lands or leases.
Further, it is said that the enumeration of particular
objects of taxation causes it to be necessary to limit the
general words, "or other rights," to things of the same
nature in accordance with the doctrine of ejusdem generis;
and that, thus limited, the right or privilege of carrying
on a business or following an occupation is not included.
These general words follow the more particular words,
"improvements [and] output of mines," and are followed
by the equally general words, "property or assets," the
entire clause being "improvements, output of mines, or
other rights, [other] property, or [other] assets." The
doctrine invoked is a rule of construction, to be used as
an aid in the ascertainment of the intention of the lawmakers, and not for the purpose of subverting such intention when ascertained. Here, the enumeration of taxable things, including the general classes, property and
assets, is so comprehensive that nothing remains to which
the phrase in question can apply, unless to rights like theone here taxed; and to construe it as contended would,

