ALASKA STEAMSHIP CO. v. McHUGH.
5

Argument for Steamship Co.

ing them the doctor necessarily transcended the limits
of that professional conduct with which Congress never
intended to interfere.
The judgment below must be reversed. The cause will
be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
ALASKA STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. McHUGH.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 294. Submitted March 10, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
The First Employers' Liability Act (June 11, 1906, c. 3073, 34
Stat. 232) did not undertake to regulate the liability of shipowners
for personal injuries suffered by their employees due to negligence.
P. 27.

The Circuit Court of Appeals certified two questions,
the first of which is set out and answered, in the opinion.
Messrs. W. H. Bogle, Lawrence Bogle, R. E. Robertson
and A. H. Zeigler for the steamship company.
It was never the intent of Congress that this act should
apply to maritime torts either in territorial or other
navigable waters. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205; Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375.
The statute requires the amount of damages sustained
by the plaintiff and the proportion thereof that should
be diminished by reason of his contributory negligence
to be determined by a jury, and also that the question
of the negligence of the defendant shall be determined
by a jury. There is no possibility of reconciling these
provisions with the inherent admiralty jurisdiction over
maritime causes of action. AgainSince the decisions of this Court in the Employers'
Liability Cases (207 U. S. 463), holding the act uncon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for McHugh.

268 U. S.

stitutional as general legislation, and in El Paso etc. Co.
v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87, and Washington etc. Co. v.
Downey, 236 U. S. 190, upholding the act as local legislation for the territories, its application to maritime torts
will offend against the uniformity rule which this Court
has repeatedly held to be a constitutional requirement
of any congressional legislation modifying or altering the
rules of the maritime law. At any rate, a construction
of the statute as applied to maritime causes of action
plainly raises grave questions regarding its constitutional
validity. Panama Railroad Company Case, supra.
If the act was applicable to maritime torts at the time
of its enactment, it was repealed by implication or superseded by the Act of April 22, 1908, the Second Employers' Liability Act, Cong. Rec. 60th Cong., 1st Section,
1347.
This Act of 1908 is a revision of the prior Act of June,
1906. Roche v. Jersey City, 40 N. J. L., 257.
Further, on the unconstitutionality of the act if applied to maritime torts, see Washington v. Dawson, 264
U. S. 219; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149; Osceola Case, 189 U. S. 158; Atlantic Transport Co.
v. Imbrovey, 234 U. S. 52.
Mr. James Wickersham, for McHugh.
The Act of June 11, 1906, is constitutional and valid
in the Territories. El Paso v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87;
Washington Ry. v. Downey, 236 U. S. 190; Hyde v.
Southern R. Co., 31 App. D. C. 466. Alaska is an organized territory. The Employers' Liability Act was not
repealed by the second Act of June 22, 1908. ยง 8, Act
June 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65; El Paso v. Gutierrez, supra;
Walsh v. Pacific Steamship Co., 172 Pac. 269; Sanstrom
v. Pacific Steamship Co., 260 Fed. 661.
The provisions of the Act of 1906 apply to and govern a suit for personal injury received on a vessel en-

ALASKA STEAMSHIP CO. v. McHUGH.
23

Argument for McHugh.

gaged in trade and commerce in the navigable waters of
Alaska Territory. Walsh v. Pacific Steamship Co., supra.
Sanstrom v. Pacific Steamship Co., supra.; Lancer v.
Anchor Line, 155 Fed. 433; Howard v. Ill. Cent. R. R.
Co., 207 U. S. 463.
The Act of 1906 is not void for conflict with any constitutional rule of uniformity. PanamaR. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S.375; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558. In
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 140, the
rule of uniformity in admiralty and maritime law was
considered, and Southern Pacific Co. v: Jensen, 244 U. S.
205, and Chelentis v. Luckenback Steamship Co., 247
U. S.372, examined and quoted, and in these three cases
the foundation of the rule was stated to be based upon
the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress and the federal
courts over admiralty and maritime cases, and not upon
any supposed rule of exact uniformity in congressional
enactment. See Waring v. Clarke, 4 How. 441; Workman v. New York, 179 U. S. 552; Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia,257 U. S.233; Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohde,
257 U. S. 469; State Industrial Comm. v. Nordenholdt
Corp., 259 U. S.263. The object in vesting in the General Government the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States was to
insure uniformity of regulation and to prevent discriminating state legislation. Walton- v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Mobile Co. v.
Kimball, 102 U. S.691. Congress undoubtedly has authority under the commercial power if no other to introduce such changes as are likely to be needed. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; Butler v. The B. & S. Steamship
Co., 130 U. S. 527. In Alaska v. Troy, 258 U. S. 101,
this court said: "the best interests of a detached territory may often demand that its ports be treated very
differently from those within the States. And we can
find nothing in the Constitution itself or its history which

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

compels the conclusion that it was intended to deprive
Congress of the power so to act."
Mr.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The court below has certified two questions of law concerning which it desires instruction. Judicial Code, ยง
2839. The first question follows. Our answer to it renders a reply to the second one unnecessary.
" 1. Is the owner of a ship, a common carrier engaged
in coastwise commerce trade in the territory of Alaska,
liable to one of its employees, a stevedore, for damages
which have resulted by reason of a defect or insufficiency
due to the owner's negligence in an appliance furnished
to the employee as provided under sections 1 and 2 of
the Act of June 11, 1906, Ch. 3073, 34 Stat. 232, commonly known as the First Employers' Liability Act?"
The designated statute is entitled, "An Act relating to
liability of common carriers in the District of Columbia
and Territories and common carriers engaged in commerce between the States and between the States and
foreign nations, to their employees," and providesSec. 1. "That every common carrier engaged in trade or
commerce in the District of Columbia, or in any Territory
of the United States, or between the several States, or
between any Territory and another, or between any Territory or Territories and any State or States, or the District of Columbia, or with foreign nations, or between the
District of Columbia and any State or States or foreign
nations, shall be liable to any of its employees, or, in the
case of his death, to his personal representative for the
benefit of his widow and children, if any, if none, then for
his parents, if none, then for his next of kin dependent
upon him, for all damages which may result from the
negligence of any of its officers, agents, or employees, or
by reason of any defect or insufficiency due to its negli-

ALASKA STEAMSHIP CO. v. McHUGH.
23

Opinion of the Court.

gence in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track,
roadbed, ways or works.
"Sec. 2. That in all actions hereafter brought against
any common carriers to recover damages for personal injuries to an employee, or where such injuries have resulted
in his death, the fact that the employee may have been
guilty of contributory negligence shall not bar a recovery
where his contributory negligence was slight and that of
the employer was gross in comparison, but the damages
shall be diminished by the jury in proportion to the
amount of negligence attributable to such employee. All
questions of negligence and contributory negligence shall
be for the jury."
Sec. 3. No contract of employment, insurance, etc., shall
constitute a defense to an action brought to recover damages for injuries or death.
"Sec. 4. That no action shall be maintained under this
Act, unless commenced within one year from the time the
cause of action accrued.
"Sec. 5. That nothing in this Act shall be held to limit
the duty of common carriers by railrods or impair the
rights of their employees under the safety-appliance Act
of March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, as
amended April first, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, and
March second, nineteen hundred and three."
The Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, held
that, "conceding the power of Congress to regulate the
relations of employer and employee engaged in interstate
commerce, *the [above-quoted] Act was unconstitutional
in this, that in its provisions regulating interstate commerce, Congress exceeded its constitutional authority in
undertaking to make employers responsible, not only to
employees when engaged in interstate commerce, but to
any of its employees, whether engaged in interstate commerce or in commerce wholly within a State." El Paso
& Northeastern Ry. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87, 93.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The case last cited declared the Act valid and controlling in so far as it relates to the District of Columbia and
the Territories, although invalid as to accidents within
a State. It was there said, p. 97: "When we consider
the purpose of Congress to regulate the liability of employer to employee, and its evident intention to change
certain rules of the common law which theretofore prevailed as to the responsibility for negligence in the conduct of the business of transportation, we think that it
is apparent that had Congress not undertaken to deal with
this relation in the States where it had been regulated
by local law, it would have dealt with the subject and
enacted the curative provisions of the law applicable to
the District of Columbia and the Territories over which
its plenary power gave it the undoubted right to pass a
controlling law, and to make uniform regulations governing the subject."
This Court has never held the act applicable to marine
torts. To give it such construction would give rise to a
grave constitutional question as to its validity and cause
much confusion and uncertainty concerning the reciprocal
rights and obligations of ships and those who work upon
them. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149;
Panama R. R. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 386, 390. The
language employed--" negligence in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, ways or works;" "actions . . . to recover damages for personal injuries;"
"all questions of negligence and contributory negligence
shall be for the jury "-and the "evident intention to
change certain rules of the common law which theretofore prevailed as to the responsibility for negligence in
the conduct of the business of transportation," oppose the
suggestion that the purpose was to regulate purely maritime matters, from time immemorial subject to the law
of the sea, which recognizes and enforces rights and
remedies radically different from those of the common
law.

