MILES v. GRAHAM.
473

Statement of the Case.

of other States should not have been iflcluded at their
full value without deducting the transfer tax paid to such
States in respect of those stocks; and thirdly, that there
was no error in refusing to make any deduction from the
clear value on account of the estate tax imposed by the
United States.
Petitions for certiorari were presented in these cases,
but as the cases are properly here on writs of error, the
petitions will be denied.
Judgments reversed on writs of error.
Petitionsfor certiorarLdenied.

MILES, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. GRAHAM.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 53.

Argued March 16, 1925.--Decided June 1, 1925.

1. Under Art. III, ยง 1, of the Constitution it is the duty of Congress
definitely to declare the amount which a federal judge shall receive

from time to time out of the public funds, and the times of payment; and the amount thus specified becomes his compensation
which is protected against diminution during his continuance in
office. Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245. P. 506.
2. So held where the salary of a judge of the Court of Claims was
fixed and the appointment was made after enactment of the
"Revenue Act of 1918," which prescribed that the bfficial compensation of all the federal judges should be included in their gross
income in computing their income taxes.
3. This provision of the Revenue Act for taxation of income can not
be treated as reducing the salaries of the judges of the Court of
Claims specifically fixed by later enactment. P. 509.
284 Fed. 878, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court against an
internal revenue collector in an action by a judge of the
Court of Claims to recover a sum which the defendant
had exacted of hija as an income tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

268 U. S.

The Solicitor General, for plaintiff in error. Mr.
Robert P. Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief.
In Evans v. Gore this court did not suggest any doubt
of the power of Congress to impose taxes which should
apply to salaries of federal judges appointed after the enactment of the taxing statutes. The imposition of the
tax in that case constituted a diminution of a salary already existing during the judge's continuance in office,
and was therefore unconstitutional. But here, the judge
was appointed after the enactment of the statute. It is
submitted that, within the meaning of the Constitution,
the diminution of the salary did not occur during his term
of office.
The proceedings of the Constitutional Convention show
that it did not intend that the provision for the protection
of judicial salaries should apply to any diminution of the
compensation of judges appointed to office after a statute
making the diminution had been enacted.
While Article III, ยง 1, of the Constitution forbids Congress to tax a very small proportion of the persons embraced within the broad terms of ยง 213 of the Revenue
Act of 1918, that section is not thereby rendered inoperative as to all other persons who come within its provisions.
It is clear that Congress might constitutionally have imposed a tax which would have fallen upon the defendant
in error after his appointment to office, and that, in enacting the law of 1918, Congress intended to authorize
the tax which was collected from him. The law was a
permanent taxing statute, dealing not merely with the
taxes which might be collected for the year 1918 but with
the taxes for years to come.
Messrs. William L. Rawls and William L. Marbury for
defendant in error.
At the time of the assessment and collection of the
taxes in question there was no validly existing law author-

MILES v. GRAHAM.
501

Argument for Defendant in Error.

izing their exaction. Section 213 of the Act of February
24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1062, was before this Court in the
case of Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245, wherein it was held
that the tax imposed in pursuance thereof upon the salary
of a judge of an inferior court of the United States was
contrary to the constitutional prohibition against the
diminution of his salary during his continuance in office,
and was therefore invalid. The intention being clear to
tax all judges, the operation of the clause cannot be
limited without re-writing it so as to give it a narrower
scope than it was the intention of Congress it should have,
a task which the courts will not assume. Where the legislative will is expressed in a single, indivisible provision,
obviously incapable of modification without destroying its
integrity, no separation or severance is logically or legally
possible. Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Child Labor Tax
Case, 259 U. S. 20; Butts v. Merchants Transportation
Co., 230 U. S. 126.
In Evans v. Gore, supra, the power of Congress to impose a tax upon the compensation received for their services by judges was denied. This denial we understand
was based both upon the specific prohibition in the Constitution against diminution of the compensation of the
judges, and the limitation necessarily implied upon the
taxing power from th&erection by the Constitution of the
three separate and independent departments of the Government. In any event it follows necessarily from the narrowest interpretation that can be put upon that decision,
that the taxing power as attempted to be exercised with respect to the compensation of judges by the Act of 1918,
even when confined in its application to those judges appointed thereafter, is in violation of the Constitution. It
must be admitted, when the comprehensive nature of the
taxing power is considered, that whatever amount is exacted by virtue of the Act of 1918 from A federal judge on
account of his having received compensation as such from

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

268 U. S.

the Government, cannot in any real sense be said to be
exacted as a result of the exercise of the taxing power. If
it were so taken in the exercise of that power, necessarily
the amount exacted could be raised from time to time in
the discretion of Congress, because the power once recognized acknowledges no limits. But admittedly the amount
exacted from a judge at the time he assumes office cannot
be increased thereafter by Congress without violating the
express prohibition of the Constitution. This limitation,
therefore, is so destructive of the asserted power to tax
as to make it impossible with any regard to reality to
describe the exaction mentioned as an exercise of that
power.
The only question which remains open is whether, by
regarding the Act of 1918 as simply a reduction of the
salaries of such federal judges as should thereafter come
into office, in an amount equal to the tax mentioned in
the Act, it can be held to be a reduction of compensation
in a manner authorized by the Constitution. Not only
does the Constitution prohibit the diminution of the
salary of the judges during their continuance in office, but
it enjoins three things: first, that there shall be "a compensation" fixed and determined for the judges; second,
that the judges shall "receive" the compensation so fixed
and determined for their services; third, that they shall
receive this compensation "at stated times."
An examination of the Act of 1918 respecting the time
of payment of the tax therein attempted to be imposed
upon the compensation of judges, and the method by
which the tax thereon is to be ascertained, will show indisputably that the collection of a tax upon the compensation of judges thereunder will violate all of these express
constitutional injunctions as to the certainty of the
amount of compensation, the time of payment and the
right to receive it.
The effect of these requirements, therefore, is to make
it impossible by taxation or any other indirect means to

MILES v. GRAHAM.
501

Opinion of the Court.

deal with the compensation of judges. Any change
therein must be made directly, and in accordance with
the specified requirements of the Constitution. If the
Act of February 24, 1919, be regarded as an attempt by
Congress to reduce the compensation of judges it plainly
does not meet the requirements of the Constitution.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The defendant in error is a judge of the Court of Claims.
He assumed the duties of that office September 1, 1919,
when the statute (Act Feb. 25, 1919, c. 29, 40 Stat. 1156,
1157) declared that judges of that court should be entitled
to receive "an annual salary of $7,500, payable monthly
from the Treasury." He was required to pay to plaintiff
in error, Collector of Internal Revenue, the income taxes
for 1919 and 1920 prescribed by "An Act to provide
revenue, and for other purposes," approved February 24,
1919, [the Revenue Act of 1918] c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057. In
computing these his judicial salary was treated as part of
his "gross income."
"Sec. 213. That for the purposes of this title (except
as otherwise provided in section 233) the term 'gross
income '" (a) Includes gains, profits, and income derived from
salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service (including in the case of the President of the United States,
the judges of the Supreme and inferior courts of the
United States, and all other officers and employees,
whether elected or appointed, of the United States, Alaska,
Hawaii, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District
of Columbia, the compensationreceived as such), of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or from professions,
vocations, trades, businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal, growing out
of the ownership or use of or interest in such property;

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U.S.

also from interest, rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any business carried on for gain or profit, or
gains or profits and income derived from any source
whatever .
After payment and the necessary preliminary steps he
instituted this proceeding to recover, upon the ground that
the exactions on account of his salary were without
authority of law. Judgment went for him in the trial
court. It was there said"Unless he was taxable under the [Revenue] Act of
1918 [.approved Feb. 24, 1919] he was not taxable at all.
If he is taxable under that statute, he is so by virtue of a
clause which applies to all the federal judges, irrespective
of the time they came upon the bench. That clause as
written has been held invalid. . . . When the clause
which has been declared invalid is out of the Act, no
other imposes the tax. What the court here is asked to
do is to rewrite the pertinent portion of the statute in
question so that it will read as did the provisions of the
Acts of 1913 and 1916 relative to this general subject.
But that would be for the court to do what Congress expressly decided not to do. With its eyes wide open to
the possible consequences, it made up its mind to seek
uniformity by imposing the tax upon all judges. Whether
it would or would not have been willing to tax the
minority, if the majority were immune, nobody knows,
perhaps not even the members of that Congress itself, for
upon that question they never were called upon to make
up their minds."
Plaintiff in error now insists that, although the challenged provision of the Act of February 24, 1919, has been
adjudged invalid as to all judges who took office prior to
that date, it is obligatory upon those thereafter appointed.
Sec. 1, Art. III of the Constitution provides-"The judicial power of the United States shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts

MILES v. GRAHAM.
501

Opinion of the Court.

as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The judges, both of the supreme and inferior courts,
shall hold their offices during good behavior, and shall, at
stated times, receive for their services a compensation,
which shall not be diminished during their continuance
in office."
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245, arose out of the claim that
Judge Evans was liable for the tax upon his salary as prescribed by the Act now under consideration, although appointed before its enactient. We there gave much consideration to the purpose, history and meaning of the
above-quoted section of the Constitution and, among
other things, said"These considerations make it very plain, as we think,
that the primary purpose of the prohibition against
diminution was not to benefit the judges, but, like the
clause in respect of tenure, to attract good and competent
men to the bench and to promote that independence of
action and judgment which is essential to the maintenance
of the guaranties, limitations and pervading principles of
the Constitution and to the administration of justice without respect to persons and with equal concern for the poor
and the rich. Such being its purpose, it is to be construed,
not as a private grant, but as a limitation imposed in the
public interest; in other words, not restrictively, but in
accord with its spirit and the principle on which it
proceeds."
"Obviously, diminution may be effected in more ways
than one. Some may be direct and others indirect, or
even evasive as Mr. Hamilton suggested. But all which
by their necessary operation and effect withhold or take
from the judge a part of that which has been promised
by law for his services must be regarded as within the
"
prohibition.
"The prohibition is general, contains no excepting
words and appears to be directed against all diminution,

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

whether for one purpose or another; and the reasons for
its adoption, as publicly assigned at the time and commonly accepted ever since, make with impelling force for
the conclusion that the fathers of the Constitution intended to prohibit diminution by taxation as well as
otherwise,-that they regarded the independence of the
judges as of far greater importance than any revenue
that could come from taxing their salaries.
"For the common good-to render him [the judge], in
the words of John Marshall, 'perfectly and completely
independent, with nothing to influence or control him but
God and his conscience '-his compensation is protected
from diminution in any form, whether by a tax or otherwise, and is assured to him in its entirety for his support.

"

"Here the Constitution expressly forbids diminution
of the judge's compensation, meaning, as we have shown,
diminution by taxation as well as otherwise. The taxing
Act directs that the compensation-the full sum, with no
deduction for expenses-be included in computing the net
income, on which the tax is laid. If the compensation be
the only income, the tax falls on it alone; and, if there
be other income, the inclusion of the compensation augments the tax accordingly. In either event the compensation suffers a diminution to the extent that it is taxed.
"We conclude that the tax was imposed contrary to
the constitutional prohibition and so must be adjudged
invalid."
Does the circumstance that defendant in error's appointment came after the taxing Act require a different
view concerning his right to exemption? The answer
depends upon the import of the word "compensation"
in the constitutional provision.
The words and history of the clause indicate that the
purpose was to impose upon Congress the duty definitely
to declare what sum shall be received by each judge out

MILES v. GRAHAM.
501

509

Opinion of the Court.

of the public funds and the times for payment. When
this duty has been complied with the amount specified
becomes the compensation which is protected against
diminution during his continuance in office.
On September 1, 1919, the applicable statute declared:
"The Chief Justice [of the Court of Claims] shall be
entitled to receive an annual salary of $8,000, and each
of the other judges an annual salary; of $7,500, payable
monthly." The compensation fixed by law when defendant in error assumed his official duties was $7,500
per annum, arid to exact a tax in respect of this would
diminish it within the plain rule of Evans v. Gore.
The taxing Act became a law prior to the statute prescribing salaries for judges of the Court of Claims, but if
the dates were reversed it would be impossible to construe
the former as an amendment which reduced salaries by
the amount of the tax imposed. No judge is required to
pay a definite percentage of his salary, but all are commanded to return, as a part of "gross income," "the compensation received as such" from the United States.
From the "gross income " various deductions and credits
are allowed, as for interest paid, contributions or gifts
made, personal exemptions varying with family relations,
etc., and upon the net result assessment is made. The
plain purpose was to require all judges to return their
compensation as an item of "gross income," and to tax
this as other salaries. This is forbidden by the Constitution.
The power of Congress definitely to fix the compensation to be received at stated intervals by judges thereafter
appointed is clear. It is equally clear, we think, that
there is no power to tax a judge of a court of the United
States on account of the salary prescribed for him by law.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRA DEIS dissents.

