510

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

PIERCE, GOVERNOR OF OREGON, ET AL. v.
SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
PIERCE, GOVERNOR OF OREGON, ET AL. v. HILL
MILITARY ACADEMY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

Nos. 583, 584. Argued March 16, 17, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.
1. The fundamental theory of liberty upon which all governments
of this Union rest excludes any general power of the State to
standardize its children by forcing them to accept instruction from
public teachers only. P. 535.
2. The Oregon Compulsory Education Act (Oreg. Ls., § 5259) which,
with certain exemptions, requires every parent, guardian or other
person having control of a child between the ages of eight and
sixteen years to send him to the public school in the district where
he resides, for the period during which the school is held for the
current year, is an unreasonable interference with the liberty of
the parents and guardians to direct the upbringing of the children,
and in that respect violates the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 534.
3. In a proper sense, it is true that corporations can not claim for
themselves the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment,
and, in general, no person in any business has such an interest in
possible customers as to enable him to restrain exercise of proper
power by the State upon the ground that he will be deprived of
patronage;
4. But where corporations owning and conducting schools are
threatened with destruction of their business and property through
the improper and unconstitutional compulsion exercised by this
statute upon parents and guardians, their interest is direct and
immediate and entitles them to protection by injunction. Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33. P. 535.
5. The Act, being intended to have general application, can not be
construed in its application to such corporations as an exercise
of power to amend their charters. Berea College v. Kentucky,
211 U. S. 45. P. 535.
6. Where the injury threatened by an unconstitutional statute is
present and real before the statute is to be effective, and will

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Appellant Van Winkle.

become irreparable if relief be postponed to that time, a suit to
restrain future enforcement of the statute is not premature. P. 536.
296 Fed. 928, affirmed.

from decrees of the District Court granting
preliminary injunctions restraining the Governor, and
other officials, of the State of Oregon from threatening
or attempting to enforce an amendment to the school
law,-an initiative measure adopted by the people
November 7, 1922, to become effective in 1926-requiring
parents and others having control of young children to
send them to the primary schools of the State. The
plaintiffs were two Oregon corporations, owning and conducting schools.
APPEALS

Mr. Willis S. Moore, Assistant Attorney General of
Oregon, with whom Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellant Van Winkle.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not remove or restrict the power of the State to enact laws necessary to
promote the health, safety, peace, morals, education or
general welfare of its people. Munn v. People of Illinois,
94 U. S. 278; Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.
25; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 666; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127
U. S. 678; Re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 449; Crowley v.
Christensen, 137 U. S. 86; Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180,
182; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Interstate
Consol. Street R. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79;
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Middleton v. Texas
Power & L. Co., 249 U. S. 152; N. 0. Gas Light Co. v.
Louisiana Light, etc., Mfg. Co., 115 U. S. 650; Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 22; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S.
814; Sanitary District of Chicago v. United States, 266
U. S. 405.
The provisions of a corporation charter and of any law
pursuant to which a corporation may have entered into

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant Van Winkle.

268 U. S.

valid contracts, are subject to modification and annulment under the police power. Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, supra; Stone v. Mississippi, supra; The
Mayor, etc. v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; Eagle Insurance Co. v.
Ohio, 153 U. S. 449; Chicago B. & Q. Co. v. Nebraska, 170
U. S. 59; Pacific Gas & E. Co. v. Police Court, 251 U. S.
22; Thornton v. Duffy, 254 U. S. 361; Chicago L. Ins. Co.
v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574.
As to minors, the State stands in the position of parens
patriae and may exercise unlimited supervision and control over their contracts, occupation and conduct, and the
liberty and right of those who assume to deal with them.
State v. Shorey, 48 Ore. 396; Stettler v. O'Hara,69 Ore.
519; State v. Bunting, 71 Ore. 259; Gibbons v. Gibbons,
75 Ore. 500; Merges v. Merges, 94 Ore. 246; State v.
Bailey, 157 Ind. 324; Sturges & Burn Mfg. Co. v. Beauchamp, 231 U. S. 320; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412;
Starnes v. Albion Mfg. Co. 147 N. C. 566; People v. Ewer,
141 N. Y. 129; Berea College v. Commonwealth, 123 Ky.
209; State v. Jackson, 71 N. H. 552; Commonwealth v.
Roberts, 159 Mass. 372; State v. Counort, 69 Wash. 321;
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; In re Turner, 49 Kan.
115; Vanwalters v. Board of Children's Guardians, 132
Ind. 567; State v. Rose, 125 La. 462; Ex parte Powell,
6 Okla. Cr. Pr. 495; Egoff v. Board of Children's Guardians, 170 Ind. 238; United States v. Behrendsohn, 197
Fed. 953; Interstate Company v. Massachusetts, 207
U. S. 79.
The statute does not interfere with religious liberty.
Permoli v. New Orleans, 3 How. 589; Brunswick Co. v.
Evans, 228 Fed. 991; People v. Board of Education, 245
Ill. 335; Swagford v. Keaton., 23 Ga. App. 238; State v.
Mockus, 113 Atl. 39 (Me.); Reynolds v. United States,
98 U. S. 145; Commonwealth v. Herr, 229 Pa. St. 132;
Owens v. State, 6 Okla. Cr. 110; People v. Pierson, 176
N. Y. 201; Scales v. State, 47 Ark. 476; Commonwealth

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Society of Sisters.

v. Has, 122 Mass. 40; Philips v. Gratz, 2 Pen. & W. 412;
Wilkes-Barre v. Garabed, 11 Pa, Super. 355; Smith v.
People, 51 Colo. 270.
The American people as a whole have unalterably determined that there shall be an absolute and unequivocal
separation of church and state, and that the public schools
shall be maintained and conducted free from influences in
favor of any religious organization, sect, creed or belief.
Art. I, Const. U. S.; Art. I, § 5, Oregon Const.; Art. VIII,
§ 3, Id.; Knowlton v. Baumhover, 182 Iowa 691; Wilkerson v. Rome, 152 Ga. 762; Evans v. Selma Union High
School District (Cal., 1924), 222 Pac. 801; Donahoe v.
Richards, 38 Me. 379.
The provisions of subdivision "d" of the act conferring
upon county superintendents power to determine that a
child is not being properly taught and to order him sent
to a public school, do not invalidate the measure, but relate to a proper exercise of administrative power. The
fact that the amendment to § 5259, Oregon Laws, contains new provisions in conflict with a succeeding section
of the act, which was not amended, does not invalidate
the amendment.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. Bernard
Hershkopf was on the brief, for appellee in No. 583.
This bill establishes a case of irreparable injury imminent to the appellee's business and property. International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S. 215,
236; Springhead Spinning Co. v. Riley, L. R. 6 Eq. 551,
558; Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S.
65, 82; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Walla Walla
v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1; School of Magnetic
Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Kennington v.
Palmer, 255 U. S. 100.
Courts of the United States have jurisdiction because
a federal constitutional right of the plaintiff-appellee was

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Society of Sisters.

268 U. S.

invaded by the enactment in question. If the liberty of
parents be unconstitutionally impaired by the enactment
in suit, surely it must needs follow, by the same token
and with irresistible logic, that the constitutional rights
of the appellee are likewise directly and unconstitutionally abridged. Truax v. Raich, 239 U.S. 33,38; Nebraska
District v. McKelvie, 262 U. S. 404; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 215-6; Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S.
140, 143.
The enactment in suit is not a legitimate exercise of
the police power of the State. The courts are entrusted
with authority, and it becomes their solemn duty, to
review the reasonableness and propriety of any attempted
use of that power. Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S.
20, 37. This Court, like the court below, must know that
the true purpose of the act, as well as its plain and
intended practical effect, was the destruction of private
primary, preparatory and parochial schools; for they certainly could not survive the denial of the right of parents
to have their children thus educated in the primary
grades. Such drastic and extraordinary legislation is a
portentous innovation in America. Private and religious
schools have existed in this country from the earliest
times. Indeed, the public or common school, as we know
it today, dates only from 1840. For generations all
Americans-including those who fought for liberty and
independence in the eighteenth century, and who drafted
the Declaration of Independence, the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, and the Constitution of the United
States-were educated in private or religious schools, and
mostly the latter. Perhaps no institution is older or a
more intimate part of our colonial and national life than
religious schools and colleges, both Catholic and Protestant. The private and religious schools have been the
laboratories in which educational methods have been
worked out and pedagogic progress accomplished from

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Society of Sisters.

the very beginning of our history. Out of them have
developed, or to them is due, our greatest colleges and
universities, the most important of them to this day being
private or religious institutions. In more recent times
commonwealth colleges and universities have grown up.
The legislation before the court manifestly carries within
itself a threat, not merely to the private elementary and
preparatory schools which it now practically proscribes,
but to every private or religious preparatory school and
every private or religious college or university in the land.
The statute in suit is so unusual and extraordinary that
it must arouse misgivings in the judicial mind upon even
the slightest reflection. More than ever must it be borne
in mind in judging it, as pointed out by the Chief Justice
in Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 534, that
"restraints must not be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Freedom is the general rule, and restraint the exception."
The statute abridges the freedom of four classes closely
interrelated: (1) the freedom of the private and parochial schools, (2) the freedom of teachers engaged in those
schools, (3) the freedom of parents and guardians, and
(4) the freedom of children. There is nothing in the
record which warrants even the suggestion that private
and parochial schools in Oregon are in any respect inferior to the public schools. If, however, the contrary
were the fact, the case would still be no different; for
there would still not exist any valid reason for their total
suppression. The State of Oregon has regulatory power
adequate to every reasonable and proper need in this relation. Indeed, it has largely exercised it as its statutes
demonstrate.
In the brief submitted on behalf of the appellant
Governor, it is urged in justification for the enactment
that it was necessary in order to prevent the teaching of
disloyalty and subversive radicalism or bolshevism. Assuming, therefore, but only for the purposes of the argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Society of Sisters.

268 U. S.

ment, that there may be in fact such an evil as this appellant conjures up and that it is not a mere chimera., nevertheless, there is no reasonable necessity for any such
prohibitory law as is now under discussion. This Court
has emphatically held that the States have power to make
criminal and forbid the teaching of disloyalty, sedition,
or pacifism. Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325. It has
also declared "that this court and other courts have decided that a license or certificate may be required of a
.

.

.

school teacher."

Lehmann v. Board of Ac-

countancy, 263 U. S. 394, 398; People v. American
Socialist Society, 202 N. Y. App. Div. 640.
Where regulation is so completely adequate, prohibition
is unnecessary and constitutes mere arbitrariness and
wanton abuse of power. Particularly must this be true,
where the subject of the alleged prohibition is an ordinary, innocuous and useful calling, trade, or business.
However the matter may stand as to nuisances and businesses tainted with vicious qualities, tendencies, or
effects, there is no doubt that this Court has repeatedly
and authoritatively refused to countenance destruction of
honest and ordinary businesses charged with abuses which
were readily remediable by regulation. Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
Nebraska District of Evangelical Lutheran Synod v.
M11cKelvie, Id. 404, 410. See Hamilton v. Vaughn, 179
N. W. 553, 558 (Mich.); Columbia Trust Co. v. Lincoln
Institute, 138 Ky. 804, 812-4.
That the assimilation of the foreigner is not a justificafion for any such prohibitory statute, was expressly decided in Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 402. But the
fact is, that the whole contention is fallacious and merely
:a far-fetched extravagance or pretense. Oregon has no
substantial unnaturalized immigrant problem. Eightyfive per cent of its population is native-born. Half of the
remainder is naturalized and presumably Americanized.

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Society of Sisters.

Of the children of the seven and a half per cent. unnaturalized, only a small number attend private schools. The
children of poor, ignorant foreigners do not attend private
schools where tuition must be paid for; they generally go
to the free public schools. The public school is not a
"melting pot." Schools are, and obviously must. be,
located in given districts. If the neighborhood be American, the school there will have a similar character. If,
however, it be situated in a poor and foreign quarter, the
school will be attended almost entirely by children of the
poorer class of foreigners. The child of a foreigner is
quite as likely to be assimilated and Americanized in a
private or parochial school as in a public school. But
there was no claim that as a matter of fact and truth
American history and the aims of our Governments were
not being correctly taught in the private and parochial
schools of the State, nor was there any suggestion that
the children attending such schools were not being properly or adequately instructed in any fundamental principles of freedom and democracy or in reverence and
righteousness. The private and parochial schools teach
the same subjects as the public schools-whatever one
does to inculcate and foster patriotism, the other can
and does do quite as well.
No legislation can proscribe social discrimination, and
the statute in the case at bar is singularly inappropriate
to that end. Young children do not discriminate against
each other; that is a characteristic of maturity. The
picking and choosing of friends for reasons based upon
money, creed, or social status come, not during elementary school days, but afterwards; and no force thus far
vouchsafed to man has ever been equal to the destruction or elimination of social distinctions. How the act in
suit could accomplish that result, no one can tell; and, as
a reason for annihilating the appellee's useful and honorable business, it amounts to nothing. It is now intimated

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Society of Sisters.

268 U. S.

that the statute was necessary in order to effectuate compulsory education. But the suggestion is clearly based
upon false premises. The notion that private and public
schools cannot exist in peace and harmony side by side,
which underlies the act in suit, is not only contradicted
by long experience, but is probably held by no competent
educator.
Thus far we have considered the enactment in suit only
in reference to the rights of the private and parochial
schools and the teachers they employ. But there is involved in the case at bar a far more important group of individual rights, namely, the rights of the parents and
guardians who desire to send their children to such
schools, and the rights of the children themselves. Reflection should soon convince the court that those rights,
which the statute seriously abridges and impairs, are of
the very essence of personal liberty and freedom. Tillman v. Pillman, 26 L. R. A. (n. s.) 781, 785 (S. Car.).
In this day and under our civilization, the child of man
is his parent's child and not the State's. "Take away
from the parents all care and concern for their children's
education, and you make a social life an impossible and
unintelligible notion." Pufendorf's Law of Nature and
Nations, book VI, c. II, § 4. It need, therefore, not excite
our wonder that to-day no country holds parenthood in so
slight esteem as did Plato or the Spartans-except Soviet
Russia.
It is not seriously debatable that the parental right to
guide one's child intellectually and religiously is a most
substantial part of the liberty and freedom of the parent.
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399-400; Taylor v.
Beckham (No. 1), 178 U. S. 548, 602-3. See also Wolff
Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 534; Coppage v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 10, 14; Smith v. Texas, 233 U. S.
630, 636; People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y. 389, 398-9; Tillman
v. Tillman, 26 L. R. A. (n. s.) 781, 785 (S. Car.).

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Society of Sisters.

The statute in suit trespasses, not only upon the liberty
of the parents individually, but upon their liberty collectively as well. It forbids them, as a body, to support
private and parochial schools and thus give to their children such education and religious training as the parents
may see fit, subject to the valid regulations of the State.
In that respect the enactment violates the public policy
of the State of Oregon and the liberty which parents have
heretofore enjoyed in that State. Liggett v. Ladd, 17 Ore.
89, 94. See also Milwaukee IndustrialSchool v. Superiors,
40 Wis. 328, 332; People v. Turner, 55 Ill. 280; State
ex rel. Sheibley v. School District, 31 Neb. 552, 556;
Trustees v. People, 87 Ill. 303. In whatever light the act
in suit be regarded, it must be manifest that, in the end,
it embodies the pernicious policy of state monopoly of
education.
The legislative power of a State in relation to education
does not involve the power to prohibit or suppress private
schools and colleges. The familiar statement that education is a public function means no more than that it is a
function that the State may undertake, because it vitally
interests and concerns the state that children shall be
furnished the means of education and not left to grow up
in ignorance. But the power of the State to provide
public schools carries with it no power to prohipbit and
suppress private schools and colleges which are competent
and qualified to afford what the State wants, namely,
education. Thus, there is no question as to the power
of the State to construct and operate public roads, bridges
and other means of transportation; yet it would hardly
be seriously contended that the State might under the
police power forbid the further operation of all private
highways, bridges and railroads. Whenever the State
desires the use of any such existing facilities for some
distinctly public purpose, it can take them only by the
exercise of the power of eminent domain. Los Angeles

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Society of Sisters.

268 U. S.

v. Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corporation, 251 U. S.
32, 38; Green v. Frazier,253 U. S. 233; Adams v. Tanner,
244 U. S. 590.
The present case is wholly outside the principle that,
where a State may enter upon an undertaking which can
be conducted profitably and satisfactorily only as a
monopoly, it may prevent competition or the continued
use of competing facilities by condemning and destroying
property under the power of eminent domain and just
compensation. In its essence, the Oregon law is one
strangling scientific investigation in private laboratories.
The social interests menaced by the suppression of private
educational institutions and the denial of liberty to pursue
long rooted habits and traditions among our people are
peculiarly of the character that the Fourteenth Amendment was most immediately designed to protect from
state political action. Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San
Francisco, 216 U. S. 358, 366. The Fourteenth Amendment had for its primary object the prevention of state
legislation calculated to keep one class in subjection to
another in respect of opportunities for economic and social
advancement, the pursuit of happiness, and the exercise
of fundamental rights comprehended in an essential individual liberty, among men fit for freedom. Buchanan v.
Warley, 245 U. S. 60; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
Bartels v. Iowa, 262 U. S. 404.
The statute impairs the obligation of the contract embodied in the appellee's corporate charter. Dartmouth
College case, 4 Wheat. 518. The corporation laws under
which the appellee exists as a corporation (Deady's Code,
1886, pp. 632-4, as amended by General Laws of Oregon
for 1903, pp. 176-7) do not contain any provision empowering the State to alter, amend, or repeal the charter;
and the constitutional provision which was in force in
Oregon when the appellee was organized (§ 2, Art. XI),
while permitting the corporation laws of the State to be

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Pierce, Governor.

altered, amended, or repealed, nevertheless, expressly
limited that power by providing that it was not to be
exercised " so as to impair or destroy any vested corporate
rights." In Liggett v. Ladd, 17 Ore. 89; Lornsten v.
Union Fishermen's Co., 71 Ore. 540, it was held that a
corporation had a vested right to its corporate name which
subsequent legislation could not impair. If that be so,
a fortiori the right granted to the plaintiff-appellee upon
its incorporation to maintain and conduct schools for
pay, is likewise a vested right within the meaning of the
Oregon constitutional provision above referred to; and,
as such, may not be impaired or destroyed by the legislature. The enactment in suit is, consequently, void, not
only because of this provision of the Oregon constitution,
but also because it impairs the obligation of a contract in
violation of section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of
the United States. Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S.
45, distinguished.
Mr. J. P. Kavanaugh, with whom Messrs. Jay Bowerman, Dan J. Malarkey, Hall S. Lusk, E. B. Seabrook and
F. J. Lonergan were on the brief, for appellee in No. 583.
Messrs. George E. Chamberlain and Albert H. Putney,
with whom Mr. P. Q. Nyce was on the brief, for the
Governor of Oregon.
The assertion that this law impairs the obligation of
contracts is clearly disposed of by Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S.45. A State cannot contract away any
of its fundamental governmental powers.
It is now definitely settled that the Fourteenth Amendment did not radically alfer the relations between the
federal and state governments, or make the provisions
of the Bill of Rights in the United States Constitution
binding upon the state governments.
The charge that the statute violates the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States is hardly

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pierce, Governor.

268 U. S.

worthy of serious consideration. Slaughter House Cases,
16 Wall. 36; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; Hodges
v. United States, 203 U. S. 1; Hudson County Water Co.
v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349; Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash.
371; Eadleigh v. Newhall, 136 Fed. 941.
The statute does not deprive anyone of property without due process of law. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland R. Co., 242 U. S. 311; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304. The principle of the non-liability of
government for loss to business incidentally resulting
from state legislation is not confined to business similar
to the liquor traffic.. Madera Waterworks v. City of
Madera, 228 U. S. 454; Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U. S.
394; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369; Hebe Company v.
Shaw, 248 U. S. 297; Purity Extract and Tonic Co. v.
Lynch, 226 U. S. 192.
Cases in which this Court has protected the right to
labor, are not precedents in this case. There is a great
distinction between the right to work and the right to
have a private business protected as against public competition or the exercise of the police powers of the State.
In Terracev. Thompson, 264 U. S. 197, it was held that
"The quality and allegiance of those who own, occupy
and use the farm lands within its borders are matters of
highest importance and affect the safety and power of the
State itself." Is "the safety and power of the State"
less effected by the control of education than by the control of farm lands?
This Court has never held that there was a denial of
due process of law where a private business was injured
or even destroyed by state competition in a field in which
a State might lawfully engage. If a State may engage at
all in any field, the question of the effect of state competition upon private business is immaterial. The owners of
private schools have even less basis for the claim that

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Pierce, Governor.

their property is taken without due process of law through
the enactment of a compulsory education law than the
owners of property used for saloon purposes had when
their business was interfered with by a state prohibition
law. In the latter case the entire use of the property for
the purpose for which it was intended was prohibited; in
the former case the school is only deprived of certaint
prospective students. A private school might still be con tinued for students under or over the age limits set by the
law. A properly qualified teacher in a private school
might easily secure a position as one of the additional
teachers who would be required by the public schools. No
person in any business has such an interest in possible
customers as to enable him to restrain the government
from exercising any proper power because it might deprive him of such patronage. To state such a contention
is to show its absurdity.
The case of the Hill Military Academy is no stronger
under the law, than would have been the case of a merchant who had attempted to restrain the operation of the
draft act, during the recent war, on the ground that the
Government, by taking away certain of his customers, was
depriving him of his property without due process of law.
See Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113.
The Oregon law does not deprive any person of liberty
without due process of law. The-appellees are corporations. The liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment is that of natural, and not of artificial, persons.
Northwestern Nat. L. Ins. Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 243,
255; Western Turf Ass'n. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359,
363. Nor can the appellees claim to have any such interests in the liberties of the school children of the State,
or their parents. No person has the right to test the
constitutionality of a law merely because it may affect
the liberty of another person in whom he has no recognized legal interest. Gusman v. Marrero, 180 U. S. 81.
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33, distinguished.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pierce, Governor.

268 U. S.

No claim can arise that the school children themselves
are deprived, by this law, of liberty without due process
of law. It will be admitted by all that children under
sixteen years of age cannot be given liberty of choice as to
their education; this must be under the control either of
the State, or of their parents, or of both the State and
their parents. If any persons have been; deprived of
liberty without due process of law it is the parents of the
school children. The determination of this last point
brings us to the question of the respective authority of
the State and of parents over minor children.
Even in -the freest country no person can possess
absolutely uncontrolled liberty, either with respect to
himself personally, or to. his children. A parent cannot
have a more complete right of control over the actions
of his child than over his own ,actions. Liberty of all is
subject to reasonable conditions deemed essential by the
governing body to the safety, health, peace, good order
and morals of the community. Crawley v. Christensen,
137 U. S. 86; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11.
Under all governments, even those which are the most
free and democratic in their character, the citizen must
always owe duties to the State; and it necessarily follows
that the State has an interest in making it certain (which
can only be done by appropriate legislation) that the
citizen is fitted, both in mind and body, to perform these
duties. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, supra. The discretionary powers of a State are broad enough to permit it
to decide that compulsory attendance at public schools
is a proper "precautionary measure against the moral
pestilence of paupers, vagabonds, and possibly convicts."
Mayor, etc. of New York v. M1filn, 11 Pet. 102.
The voters of Oregon who adopted this law had the
right to act on the belief that the fact that the great
increase in juvenile crime in the United States followed
so closely after the great increase in the number of chil-

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Pierce, Governor.

dren inthe United States who were not attending public
schools, was more than a coincidence. The voters in
Oregon might also have based their action in adopting
this law upon the alarm which they felt at the rising tide
of religious suspicions in this country, and upon their
belief that the basic cause of such religious feelings was
the separation of children along religious lines during the
most susceptible years of their lives, with the inevitable
awakening of a consciousness of separation, and a distrust
and suspicion of those from whom they were so carefully
guarded. The voters of Oregon might have felt that the
mingling together, during a portion of their education,
of the children of all races and sects, might be the best
safeguard against future internal dissentions and consequent weakening of the community against foreign
dangers.
In Mayor, etc. of New York v. Miln, supra, this Court
was considering the evil effects upon a State of the immigration of ignorant foreigners, unacquainted with, and
lacking sympathy with, American institutions and ideals.
In this connection, it should be remembered that the vast
majority of children not now attending the public schools
of Oregon who will be compelled to do so by the new
statute, are either themselves immigrants or the children
of immigrants. Surely a State can require of all immigrants admitted to the advantages and opportunities of
life in the United States, that their children shall be
taught by the State the English language, and the character of American institutions and government. Meyer v.
Nebraska, 262 U. S.390, distinguished.
The compulsory attendance of all children of school
age at the public schools during the relatively short hours
during which these schools are in session would not deprive the parents of any just rights. There would remain
an abundance of time and opportunity for supplementary
instruction either in religion or in the language, history,
and traditions of the land of their ancestors. The ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pierce, Governor.

268 U. S.

jectionable feature about the Nebraska law was that it
forbade the teaching of modem languages either in regular schools or in supplementary schools. The dicta in
the Meyer Case would appear to be somewhat broader
than can be supported by the previous decisions of this
Court which are cited to support it.
The subject of immigration is one which is exclusively
under the control of the Central Government. The
States have nothing to say as to the number or class of
the immigrants who may be permitted to settle within
their limits. It would therefore appear to be both unjust
and unreasonable to prevent them from taking the steps
which each may deem necessary and proper for Americanizing its new immigrants and developing them into
patriotic and law-abiding citizens. At present, the vast
majority of the private schools in the country are conducted by members of some particular religious belief.
They may be followed, however, by those organized and
controlled by believers in certain economic doctrines entirely destructive of the fundamentals of our governxnent. Can it be contended that there is no way in
which a State can prevent the entire education of a considerable portion of its future citizens being controlled
and conducted by bolshevists, syndicalists and communists?
The exact question involved in the present case has
never been passed upon by any American court. Perhaps the cases which come nearest are those on whether
the school authorities have the right to exclusive control
over the list of studies to be taken by pupils in the public
schools, or whether the parents have a limited right of
selection. The decisions on this question are in hopeless
conflict. In New Hampshire (Kidder v. Chelis, 59 N. H.
473) Indiana (State v. Webber, 108 Ind. 31,) and Iowa
(State v. Mizner, 50 Ia. 145,) the power of the public is
held exclusive; while in Illinois (School Trustees v. People, 87 Ill. 303,) Oklahoma (School Board District v.

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Argument for Pierce, Governor.

Thompson, 24 Okla. 1,) and Wisconsin (Morrow v. Wood,
35 Wis. 59,) some right of control has been held to belong
to the parent. This Court has twice recently, in the
child labor cases, (Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251,
and Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20,) held
that all questions relative to the care, control and custody
of minor children belong exclusively to the State.
The Oregon law does not deny the equal protection of
the law. The whole opposition arises from the fact that
it is intended to bring about a greater equality in the
operation of the school law of Oregon than has previously
existed. A law which increases the uniformity of the
application of a law cannot by any stretch of the imagination be classed as a law which denies the equal protection
of the law. The new Oregon School Law merely removes
an exception to the generality of the application of the
former law. The right to the equal protection of the
laws is not denied when it is apparent that the same law
or course of procedure is applicable to every other person
in the State under similar circumstances and conditions.
Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 5 2; Tinsley v. Anderson,
171 U. S. 106; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79.
If the compulsory school laws of the other States are
constitutional, this. law must be held so. If a State may
pass a law applying to a certain portion -of the things or
persons included in a general class, it can pass one applying to all in a general class, unless express exceptions are
to be found in the prohibitions in the Federal Constitution.
Fisher v. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361. The constitutionality
of the Oregon law can be sustained as an exercise of the
police power of the State. The scope of this power is very
broad. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561;
Bacbn v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Mayor, etc. of New York
v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102. This law may also be sustained
under the powers of the State in connection with its duties
to aid the United States in time of war. Arver v. United
States, 245 U. S. 366; Holdman v. United States, 245 U. S.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Military Academy.

268 U. S.

474; Ruthenberg v. United States, 245'U. S. 480; Cox v.
Wood, 247 U. S. 3; Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U. S.
204; Debs v. United States, 249 U. S. 211; McKinley v.
United States, 249 U. S. 397. The power and duty to be
prepared for war is shared by the state government. Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325; Halter v. Nebraska, 205
U. S. 34.
The discretion of the States in the exercise of their
powers is broad enough to justify a State in holding that
a compulsory system of public school education will encourage the patriotism of its citizens, and train its younger
citizens to become more willing and more efficient defenders of the United States in times of public danger.
This is particularly true in view of the fact that if the
Oregon School Law is declared unconstitutional there will
be nothing to prevent the establishment of private
schools, the main purpose of which will be to teach disloyalty to the United States, or at least the theory of the
moral duty to refuse to aid the United States even in the
case of a defensive war. If a State cannot compel certain children to attend the public schools it cannot compel any children to do so. An attempt to do so would
be clearly a violation of the "equal protection of the
laws" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. John C. Veatch, for appellee in No. 584.
Any restrictions upon the rights of the individual are
arbitrary and oppressive unless intended to promote the
public welfare and having a reasonable relation to that
purpose. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192;
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539. Where the legislative action is arbitrary and has no reasonable relation to
a purpose which it is competent for the Government to
effect, the legislature transcends the limits of its power
in interfering with the liberty of contract. C. B. & Q.
R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Atlantic Coast Line
v. Goldboro, 232 U. S. 559; House v. Mayes, 219 U. S.
270; Reduction Company v. Sanitary Works, 199 U. S.

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Opinion of the Court.

306; C. B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners,
200 U. S. 561; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45. If
it is within the power of the State to take away the business of the private schools in the elementary grades, it is
equally within that power to take away their business in
all grades. Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
This act is not designed and intended to promote compulsory education. It adds nothing to the standard of
education, it does not broaden the educational field; the
changing of the ages for compulsory school attendance
is in no way affected by the clause relating to private
schools. Commonwealth v. Roberts, 159 Mass. 372.
While no rule of law defines the limits of the State's
power, the principle, based upon the universal decisions
of the courts, is that the power shall not interfere with
the rights of the individual, unless such interference is
necessary to promote the public welfare and the restrictions placed upon the individual's rights have a real, substantial, and direct relation to the object to be accomplished. Adkins v. Childrens Hospital, 261 U. S. 525;
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
By special leave of Court briefs of amici curiae were
filed by Mr. Louis Marshall for the American Jewish
Committee; Mr. Win. A. Williams, for the North Pacific
Union Conference of Seventh Day Adventists; Messrs.
Chas. H. Tuttle, Chas. E. Hotchkiss, Alexander J. Field,
and Woodson P. Houghton, for The Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of the Protestant Episcopal
Church in the United States.
MR. JUsTIcE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These appeals are from decrees, based upon undenied
allegations, which granted preliminary orders restraining

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

appellants from threatening or attempting to enforce the
Compulsory Education Act * adopted November 7, 1922,
under the initiative provision of her Constitution by the
voters of Oregon. Jud. Code, § 266. They present the
same points of law; there are no controverted questions
of fact. Rights said to be guaranteed by the federal
Constitution were specially set up, and appropriate
prayers asked for their protection.
The challenged Act, effective September 1, 1926, requires every parent, guardian or other person having
control or charge or custody of a child between eight and
sixteen years to send him "to a public school for the
period of time a public school shall be held during the
current year" in the district where the child resides; and
failure so to do is declared a misdemeanor. There are
*Be it Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
Section 1. That Section 5259, Oregon Laws, be and the same is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:
Sec. 5259. Children Between the Ages of Eight and Sixteen YearsAny parent, guardian or other person in the State of Oregon, having
control or charge or custody of a child under the age of sixteen years
and of the age of eight years or over at the commencement of a term
of public school of the district in which said child resides, who shall
fail or neglect or refuse to send such child to a public school for the
period of time a public school shall be held during the current year
in said district, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and each day's
failure to send such child to a public school shall constitute a separate
offense; providIed, that in the following cases, children shall not be
required to attend public schools:
(a) Children Physically Unable-Any child who is abnormal, subnormal or physically unable to attend school.
.(b) Children Who Have Completed the Eighth Grade-Any child
who has completed the eighth grade, in accordance with the provisions of the state course of study.
(c) Distance from school-Children between the ages of eight and
ten years, inclusive, whose place of residence is more than one and
one-half miles, and children over ten years of age whose place of
residence is more than three miles,.by the nearest traveled road, from
a public school; provided, however, that if transportation to and

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Opinion of the Court.

exemptions-not specially important here-for children
who are not normal, or who have completed the eighth
grade, or who reside at considerable distances from any
public school, or whose parents or guardians hold special
permits from the County Superintendent. The manifest
purpose is to compel general attendance at public schools
by normal children, between eight and sixteen, who have
not completed the eighth grade. And without doubt enforcement of the statute would seriously impair, perhaps
destroy, the profitable features of appellees' business and
greatly diminish the value of their property.
Appellee, the Society of Sisters, is an Oregon corporation, organized in 1880, with power to care for orphans,
educate and instruct the youth, establish and maintain
academies or schools, and acquire necessary real and perfrom school is furnished by the school district, this exemption shall
not apply.
(d) Private Instruction-Any child who is being taught for a like
period of time by the parent or private teacher such subjects as are
usually taught in the first eight years in the public scho6l; but before
such child can be taught by a parent or a private teacher, such parent
or private teacher must receive written permission from the county
superintendent, and such permission shall not extend longer than the
end of the current school year. Such child must report to the county
school superintendent or some person designated by him at least once
every three months and take an examination in the work covered.
If, after such examination, the county superintendent shall determine
that such child is not being properly taught, then the county superintendent shall order the parent, guardian or other person, to send
such child to the public school the remainder of the school year.
If any parent, guardian or other person having control or charge
or custody of any child between the ages of eight and sixteen years,
shall fail to comply with any provision of this section, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be subject
to a fine of not less than $5, nor more than $100, or to imprisonment
in the county jail not less than two nor more than thirty days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
This Act shall take effect and be and remain in force from and
after the first day of September, 1926.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

sonal property. It has long devoted its property and
effort to the secular and religious education and care of
children, and has acquired the valuable good will of many
parents and guardians. It conducts interdependent primary and high schools and junior colleges, and maintains
orphanages for the custody and control of children between eight and sixteen. In its primary schools many
children between those ages are taught the subjects
usually pursued in Oregon public schools during the first
eight years. Systematic religious instruction and moral
training according to the tenets of the Roman Catholic
Church are also regularly provided. All courses of study,
both temporal and religious, contemplate continuity of
training under appellee's charge; the primary schools are
essential to the s3istem and the most profitable. It owns
valuable buildings, especially constructed and equipped
for school purposes. The business is remunerative-the
annual income from primary schools exceeds thirty thousand dollars--and the successful conduct of this requires
long time contracts with teachers and parents. The Compulsory Education Act of 1922 has already caused the
withdrawal from its schools of children who would otherwise continue, and their income has steadily declined.
The appellants, public officers, have proclaimed their
purpose strictly to enforce the statute.
After setting out the above facts the Society's bill alleges that the enactment conflicts with the right of parents
to choose schools where their children will receive appropriate mental and religious training, the right of the child
to influence the parents' choice of a school, the right of
schools and teachers therein to engage in a useful business
or profession, and is accordingly repugnant to the Constitution and void. And, further, that unless enforcement
of the measure is enjoined the corporation's business and
property will suffer irreparable injury.
Appellee, Hill Military Academy, is a private corporation organized in 1908 under the laws of Oregon, engaged

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Opinion of the Court.

in owning, operating and conducting for profit an elementary, college preparatory and military training school
for boys between the ages of five and twenty-one years.
The average attendance is one hundred, and the annual
fees received for each student amhount to soine eight hundred dollars. The elementary department is divided into
eight grades, as in the public Schools; the college preparatory department has four grades, similar to those of the
public high schools; the courses of study conform to the
requirements of the State Board of Education. Military
instruction and training are also given, under the supervision of an Army officer. It owns considerable real and
personal property, some useful only for school purposes.
The business and incident good will are very valuable.
In order to conduct its affairs long time contracts must
be made for supplies, equipment, teachers and pupils.
Appellants, "law-officers of the State and County, have
publicly announced that the Act of November 7, 1922, is
valid and have declared their intention to enforce it. By
reason of the statute and threat of enforcement appellee's
business is being destroyed and its property depreciated;
parents and guardians are refusing to make contracts for
the future instruction of their sons, and some are being
withdrawn.
The Academy's bill states the foregoing facts and then
alleges that the challenged Act contravenes the corporation's rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment
and that unless appellants are iestrained from proclaiming its validity and threatening to enforce it irreparable
injury will result. The prayer is for an appropriate
injunction.
No answer was interposed in either cause, and after
proper notices they were heard by three judges (Jud.
Code § 266) on motions for preliminary injunctions upon
the specifically alleged facts. The court ruled that the
Fourteenth Amendment guaranteed appellees against the

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

deprivation of their property without due process of law
consequent upon the unlawful interference by appellants
with the free choice of patrons, present and prospective.
It declared the right to conduct schools was property and
that parents and guardians, as a part of their liberty,
might direct the education of children by selecting
reputable teachers and places. Also, that these schools
were not unfit or harmful to the public, and that enforcement of the challenged statute would unlawfully deprive
them of patronage and thereby destroy their owners' business and property. Finally, that the threats to enforce
the Act would continue to cause irreparable injury; and
the suits were not premature.
No question is raised concerning the power of the State
reasonably to regulate all schools, to inspect, supervise
and examine them, their teachers and pupils; to require
that all children of proper age attend some*school, that
teachers shall be of good moral character and patriotic
disposition, that certain studies plainly essential to good
citizenship must be taught, and that nothing be taught
which is manifestly inimical to the public welfare.
The inevitable practical result of enforcing the Act under
consideration would be destruction of appellees' primary
schools, and perhaps all other private primary schools for
normal children within the State of Oregon. These parties are engaged in a kind of undertaking not inherently
harmful, but long regarded as useful and meritorious.
Certainly there is nothing in the present records to indicate that they have failed to discharge their obligations to
patrons, students or the State. And there are no peculiar
circumstances or present emergencies which demand extraordinary measures relative to primary education.
Under the doctrine of Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S.
390, we think it entirely plain that the Act of 1922 unreasonably interferes with the liberty of parents and
guardians to direct the upbringing and education of chil-

PIERCE v. SOCIETY OF SISTERS.
510

Opinioi of the Court.

dren under their control. As often heretofore pointed out,
rights guaranteed by the Constitution may not be
abridged by legislation which has no reasonable relation to
some purpose within the competency of the State. The
fundamental theory of liberty upon which all governments in this Union repose excludes any general power
of the State to standardize its children by forcing them to
accept instruction from public teachers only. The child is
not the mere creature of the State; those who nurture
him and direct his destiny have the right, coupled with

the high duty, to recognize and prepare him for additional
obligations.
Appellees are corporations and therefore, it is said, they
cannot claim for themselves the liberty which the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees. Accepted in the proper
sense, this is true. Northwestern Life Ins. Co. v. Riggs,
203 U. S. 243, 255; Western Turf Association v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359, 363. But they have business and
property for which they claim protection. These are
threatened with destruction through the unwarranted
compulsion which appellants are exercising over present
and prospective patrons of their schools. And this court
has gone very far to protect against loss threatened by
such action. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S.312; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.197.
The courts of the State have not construed the Act, and
we must determine its meaning for ourselves. Evidently
it was expected to have general application and cannot
be construed as though merely intended to amend the
charters of certain private corporations, as in Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S. 45. No argument in favor of
such view has been advanced.
Generally it is entirely true, as urged by counsel, that
no person in any business has such an interest in possible
customers as to enable him to restrain exercise of proper
power of the State upon the ground that he will be de-

