WELLER v. NEW YORK.
315

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

574, at a time when it was not necessary for the majority
to speak upon it. The priority claimed by the United
States is not given to it by the law.
Decrees in 786 and 787 affirmed.
Decree in 1085 reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

was absent and took no part

in this decision.
WELLER v. PEOPLE OF STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR T6 THE COURT OF SPECIAL SESSIONS OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 349.

Argued April 28, 29, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. A state law forbidding and penalizing the engaging without a license

in the business of re-selling theater tickets does not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 325.
2. The provisions of the New York General Business Law, as amended,
c. 590, 1922, requiring theater ticket brokers to give bond and
obtain a license are separable and workable apart from those restricting the price at which the tickets may be resold, so that the
validity of the former is independent of the validity of the latter.

Id.
207 App. Div. N. Y. 337; 237 N. Y. .316, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Court of Special Sessions
of the City of New York adjudging the plaintiff in error
guilty of reselling theater tickets without a license, entered
after successive affirmances by the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, and the Court of Appeals.
ERROR

Mr. Louis Marshall, for plaintiff in error.
Chapter 590 of the New York Laws of 1922 is unconstitutional and void, because it deprives the defendant of
his liberty and property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

That the business of a ticket broker is a lawful one,
that the pursuit of it cannot be prohibited, directly or
indirectly, and that theatre tickets constitute property
in the constitutional sense of the term, has been expressly
adjudicated. People ex rel. Tyroler v. Warden of the City
Prison, 157 N. Y. 116; People ex rel. Fleischmann v. Caldwell, 64 App. Div. 46; affd. 168 N. Y. 671; People v.
Marks, 64 Misc. Rep. 679; Collister v. Hayman, 183 N. Y.
250; Matter of Newman, 109 Misc. Rep. 622.
The whole theory of such legislation is vicious and dangerous, and the precedent that would be created, by sustaining the act now under consideration would be an invasion of liberty, calculated to work lasting injury not
only to the individual but to the public welfare. There
are limitations on the power of the legislature to fix the
price of commodities or of services, or to limit the right
to contract with regard to them. People v. Budd, 117
N. Y. 15, affd. sub. nom. Budd v. New York, 143 U. S.
517; Adkins v. Children'sHospital, 261 U. S. 525; Adams
v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Fisher Co. v. Woods, 187 N. Y.
90; Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 251 U. S. 230; Michigan Public Utilities Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570. Carefully adjudicated cases
have denied the power of the legislature to fix the price
of theatre tickets. People v. Newman, 109 Misc. 622;
Ex parte Quarg, 149 Cal. 79; People v. Steele, 231 Ill.
340; City of Chicago v. Powers, 231 *Ill. 531; People v.
Weiner, 271 Ill. 74; Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Ill. 104.
The business of conducting a theatre, and consequently
of selling or procuring tickets of admission, is not affected
by a public interest, in the sense that the legislature
may fix the price at which such tickets may be sold by
brokers or limit the compensation chargeable by brokers
for procuring them. Charles Wolff Packing Co. v. Court
of IndustrialRelations, 262 U. S. 522; Dorchy v. Kansas,
264 U. S' 286.

WELLER v. NEW YORK.
515

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Assuming that, if standing alone, that part of the
statute requiring the aeking out of a license and the
giving of a bond could be sustained, the fact that,
by compliance, the licensee would be estopped from
questioning the other provisions, renders the act unconstitutional in its entirety; Musco v. United Surety Co.,
196 N. Y. 459; Guffanti v. National Surety Co., 196
N. Y. 453; Russo v. Illinois Surety Co., 141 App. Div.
690; Huson v. Brown, 90 Misc. 175; Pierce v. Somerset
Railway, 171 U. S. 641; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 56; Wall v. ParrotSilver & Copper Co., 244 U. S.
407; Pierce Oil Corp. v. Phoenix Refining Co., 259 U. S.
125; St. Louis Co. v. Prendergast Co., 260 U. S. 461;
Matter of Cooper, 93 N. Y. 507; Embury v. Conner, 3
N. Y. 511; Mayor, etc.-of New York v. Manhattan Railway Co., 143 N. Y. 1. If the licensing provision of the
act standing by itself were constitutional, the defendant
could not be charged with a misdemeanor for non-compliance therewith if the price-fixing clauses of the act are
invalid and he would be precluded from attacking them,
because of his compliance with the licensing provision.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Harrison v. St. Louis
& San Francisco R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318; Mercantile
Trust Co. v. Texas, etc., Ry. Co., 216 Fed. 225. That
a statute unconstitutional in a part essential and vital
to its whole scheme cannot be enforced by the courts in
its other provisions is likewise a well settled principle.
Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; International
Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Pollock v. FarmersLoan & Trust Co., 158
U. S. 601; Howard v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 207
U. S. 463; Sherrill v. O'Brien, 188 N. Y. 185; Hauser v.
North British & Mercantile Ins. Co., 152 App. Div. 91.
The provision, in § 174 of the statute "that in case it is
judicially determined that any section of this article is
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such determination

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

shall not affect its validity or effect of the remaining
provisions of the article" does not militate against the
authorities considered under the foregoing subdivisions of
this point. Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 70. In none of
the courts below was there any attempt to sever the
license provision from the price-fixing provision.
MV1r. Robert D. Petty, with whom Messrs. Joab H.
Banton, District Attorney of New York County, and
Felix C. Benvenga, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Chapter 590, New York Laws 1922, added eight sections,
167-174, to the General Business Law of the State. They
are copied in the margin.* Section 168 directs: "No per- § 167. Mlatters of Public Interest. It is hereby determined and
declared that the price of or charge for admission to theatres, places
of amusement or entertainment, or other places where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held is a, matter affected
with a public interest and subject to the supervision of the state for
the purpose of safeguarding the public against fraud, extortion,
exorbitant rates and similar abuses.
§ 168. Reselling of Tickets of Admission; Licenses. No person:
firm or corporation shall resell or engage in the business of reselling
any tickets of admission or any other evidence of the right of entry
to a theatre, place of amusement or entertainment, or other places
where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held
without having first procured a license therefor from the comptroller.
Such license shall be granted upon the payment by or on behalf of
the applicant of a fee of one hundred dollars and shall be renewed
upon the payment of a like fee annually. Such license shall not be
transferred or assigned, except by permission of the comptroller.
Such license shall run to the first day of January next ensuing the
date thereof, unless sooner revoked by the comptroller. Such license
shall be granted upon a written application setting forth such information as the comptroller may require in order to enable him to carry
into effect the provisions of this article and shall be accompanied by

WELLER v. NEW YORK.
315

323

Opinion of the Court.

son, firm or corporation shall resell or engage in the business of reselling any tickets of admission or any other
evidence of the right of entry to a theatre, place of amusement or entertainment, or other places where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held without
having first procured a license therefor from the comptroller." And § 173 declares every violation of the inhibition shall be a misdemeanor.
By an information in the Court of Special Sessions, New
York City, the District Attorney accused plaintiff in error
of engaging in the business of reselling theatre tickets
without the license required by law. The evidence showed
he was engaged in that business, and it was conceded he
had never taken out a license or complied with Chapter
proof satisfactory to the comptroller of the moral character of the
applicant.
§ 169. Bond. The comptroller shall require the applicant for a
license to file with the application therefor a bond in due form to
the people of the state of New York in the penal sum of one thousand dollars, with two or more sufficient sureties, who shall be freeholders within the state of New York, conditioned that the obligor
will not be guilty of any fraud or extortion, and will not exact or
receive a price for any such ticket or evidence of the right of entry
in excess of the price authorized by this article. The comptroller
shall keep books wherein shall be entered in alphabetical order all
licenses granted and all bonds received by him as provided for in this
article, the date of the issuance of such licenses and the filing of
such bonds, which record shall be open to public inspection. A suit
to recover on the bond required to be filed by the provisions of this
article may be brought by the comptroller or on the relation of any
party aggrieved in a court of competent jurisdiction, and in the event
that the obligor named in such bond has violated any of the conditions
of such bond, recovery for the full penal sum of such bond may be
had in favor of the people of the state.
§ 170. Revocation of licenses. In the event that any licensee shall
be guilty of any fraud or misrepresentation or shall charge for any
ticket a price in excess of the price authorized by this article or
otherwise violate any of the provisions of this article or any other
law or local ordinance, the comptroller shall be empowered, on giving

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

590. His defense rested upon the claim that the statute
is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. The trial
court adjudged him guilty and imposed a fine of twentyfive dollars. This was affirmed by the Appellate Division
and by the Court of Appeals. 207 App. Div. 337; 237
N. Y. 316. In an extended opinion the latter court upheld the challenged enactment, but said nothing of the
ten days' notice by mail to such licensee, and on affording such licensee
an opportunity to answer the charges made against him, to revoke
the license issued to him.
§ 171. Supervision of comptroller. The comptroller shall have the
power, upon complaint of any citizen or of his own initiative, to investigate the business, business practices and business methods of any
such licensee if in the opinion of the comptroller such investigation
is warranted. Each such licensee shall be obliged, on request of the
comptroller, to supply such information as may be required concerning his business, business practices or business methods.
§ 172. Restriction as to Price. No licensee shall resell any such
ticket or other evidence of the right of entry to any theatre, place
of amusement or entertainment, or other place where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are given at a price in excess
of fifty cents in advance of the price printed on the face of such
ticket or other evidence of the right of entry. Every person, firm or
corporation who owns, operates or controls a theatre, place of amusement or entertainment, or other place where public exhibitions, games,
contests or performances are held shall, if a price be charged for admission thereto, print on the face of each such ticket, or other evidence of the right of entry the price charged therefor by such person,
firm or corporation.
§ 173. Violations; Penalties. Every person, firm or corporation
who resells any such ticket or other evidence of right of entry or
engages in the business of reselling any such ticket or other evidence of
the right of entry, without first having procured the license prescribed
and filing of a bond required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Every person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 174. Constitutionality of Article. In case it be judicially determined that any section of this article is unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such determination shall not affect the validity or effect of
the remaining provisions of the article.

