OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

v. United States, 13 Wall 38. The Railway was entitled
to judgment for the amount wrongly deducted by the
Auditor.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.
YEE HEM v. THE UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 303.

Argued March 19, 1925.-Decided April 27, 1925.

1. Congress has power to prohibit the importation of opium and,
as a measure reasonably calculated to aid in the enforcement
of the prohibition, to make its concealment, with knowledge of
its unlawful importation, a crime. P. 183.
2. The Act of February 9, 1909, §§ 1 and 2, as amended, January
17, 1914, prohibited the importation of smoking opium after April
1, 1909, made it an offense to conceal such opium knowing it to
have been imported contrary to law, and provided that possession
by the defendant "shall be deemed sufficient evidence to authorize conviction unless the defendant shall explain the possession
to the satisfaction of the jury." Section 3 provided that on and
after July 1, 1913, all smoking opium within the United States
should be presumed to have been imported after April 1, 1909,
and that the burden of proof should be on the claimant or accused to rebut the presumption. Held that the presumptions thus
created are reasonable and do not contravene the due process of
law and the compulsory self-incrimination clauses of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 183.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a. sentence upon conviction of the offense of
concealing smoking opium with knowledge that it had
been illegally imported.

Mr. Gerard J. Piltiod, with whom Mr. Joseph C.
Breitenstein was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The statute rests upon the authority of Congress t6 restrict imports, and the jurisdiction of the court was derived accordingly. The statute denounces primarily the

YEE HEM v. U. S.
178

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unlawful importation of opium and declares such importation after April, 1909, to be unlawful, except for certain purposes and under certain regulations. Up to this
point the authority of Congress is unquestioned. But the
legislators sought to go further. As in the Harrison Act
they desired to reach the mere possession of smoking
opium and fasten to such possession a penal responsibility to the Federal Government. To achieve this purpose
it was necessary to infuse into "possession" a criminal
element allying it. with the original source of congressional authority and federal jurisdiction, and scienter
was therefore employed to give to the offense a federal
tinge. "Knowing the same to have been imported contrary to law" constitutes a necessary ingredient of the offense, and the duty therefore rests upon the Government
to prove, first, that the opium had been in fact imported
contrary to law, second, that the accused had knowledge
of that fact.. Such facts would generally be difficult if
not impossible of proof, and the statute therefore provides a special rule of evidence to meet the exigency, and
effectually relieves the prosecution of the burden and
places it upon the defendant. It is not contended that a
rigid rule exists derived from the common law or the
principles of the Constitution which prohibits Congress
from constituting certain facts presumptive or primafacie
evidence of guilt, as, for instance, the possession of narcotics under the Narcotic Act. This may well be a reasonable exercise of legislative power, though fraught with
danger and to be jealously confined. The question is
whether Congress has exceeded proper limits in thus creating a special rule of evidence profoundly affecting the
constitutional privileges of the accused.
If crude opium or its derivative could under no circumstances be imported into the United States, the problem would be simple indeed; but crude opium may be
lawfully imported, may be lawfully converted into smok-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

ing opium, and so diverted. Shall mere restriction be
construed to charge the accused with scienter equally with
absolute prohibition? If so, why were unlawful importation and guilty knowledge expressly made ingredients
of the offense? Congress apparently contemplated the
possibility that opium might be possessed which had not
in fact been unlawfully imported, or which the accused
did not know had been so imported. The presumption
of accused's innocence therefore related to the fact of unlawful importation and his guilty knowledge thereof and
the burden of proof continued with the Government until
adequate evidence relating to these elements had been
introduced. But no evidence was introduced and none
was necessary under this statutory special rule of evidence as applied to the case and addressed to the jury in
the court's charge. Possession needed to be proved, and
possession only, and the presumption of innocence and
its corollary responsibility, the burden of proof, were peremptorily interrupted by force of the statute, and the
accused charged with guilty knowledge of unlawful importation stood before the jury condemned by the law because of possession.
Justice would require, at least in its Anglo-Saxon concept, that evidence be introduced on these subjects, and
that the accused be confronted with witnesses. The benefit of salutary rules excluding inadmissible, incompetent
and irrelevant testimony is denied him. The opportunity to expose falsehood and to discover malice, are forcibly
withheld, for, if unlawful importation and guilty knowledge be difficult or impossible of proof by the Government, they are equally or more so by the accused, for
aside from the practical difficulties surrounding the proof
of origin of such opium he is forced to explain his posession to the satisfaction of the jury, which tends rather
to expose him to condemnation of his personal vice, than
to the consequences of a violation of a federal imlort
law.

'YEE
178

HEM v. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Assuming that the ambiguous clause means that the
defendant shall explain possession as being separate and
free from unlawful importation and guilty knowledge, its
practical effect is to compel him to be a witness against
himself. Should he decline, the consequence is obvious.
And this proposition cannot be evaded by the contention
that the law contemplates explanatory evidence generally, aside from the testimony of the accused. The constitutional provision against self incrimination should
receive a broad construction to secure immunity to the
citizen from every kind of self accusation. Wilson v.
United States, 221 U. S. 361; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.
591; M. C. Knight v. United States, 115 Fed. 962;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom the
Solicitor General and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in
the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the
United States.
MiR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Plaintiff in error was convicted in the court below of
the offense of concealing a quantity of smoking opium
after importation, with knowledge that it had been imported in violation of the Act of February 9, 1909, c. 100,
35 Stat. 614, as amended by the Act of January 17, 1914,
c. 9, 38 Stat. 275. Sections 2 and 3 of the act as amended
are challenged as unconstitutional, on the ground that
they contravene the due process of law and the compulsory self-incrimination clauses of the Fifth Amendment of the federal Constitution.
Section 1 of the act prohibits the importation into the
United States of opium in any form after April 1, 1909,
except that opium and preparations and derivatives
thereof, other than smoking opium or opium prepared for

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

smoking, may be imported for medicinal purposes only,
under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. Section 2 provides, among other things, that
if any person shall conceal or facilitate the concealment
of such opium, etc., after importation, knowing the same
to have been imported contrary to law, the offender shall
be subject to fine or imprisonment or both. It further
provides that whenever the defendant on trial is shown
to have, or to have had, possession of such opium, etc.,
"such possession shall be deemed sufficient evidence to
authorize conviction unless the defendant shall explain
the possesion to the satisfaction of the jury." Section 3
provides that on and after July 1, 1913, "all smoking
opium or opium prepared for smoking found within the
United States shall be presumed to have been imported
after the first day of April, nineteen hundred and nine,
and the burden of proof shall be on the claimant or the
accused to rebut such presumption."
The plaintiff in error, at the time of his arrest in
August, 1923, was found in possession of and concealing a
quantity of smoking opium. The lower court overruled
a motion for an instructed verdict of not guilty, and,
after stating the foregoing statutory presumptions,
charged the jury in substance that the burden of proof
was on the accused to rebut such presumptions; and that
it devolved upon him to explain that he was rightfully in
possession of the smoking opium,-" at least explain it
to the satisfaction of the jury." The court further
charged that the defendant was presumed to be innocent
until the government had satisfied the minds of the jurors
of his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt; that the burden
to adduce such proof of guilt beyond the existence of a
reasonable doubt rested on the government at all times
and throughout the trial; and that a conviction could
not be had "while a rational doubt remains in the minds
of the jury."

YEE HEM v. U. S.
178

Opinion of the Court.

The authority of Congress to prohibit the importation
of opium in any form and, as a measure reasonably calculated to aid in the enforcement of the prohibition, to
make its concealment with knowledge of its unlawful importation a criminal offence, is not open to doubt. BroIan v. United States, 236 U. S. 216; Steinfeldt v. United
States, 219 Fed. 879. The question presented is whether
Congress has power to enact the provisions in respect of
the presumptions arising from the unexplained possession of such opium and from its presence in this country
after the time fixed by the statute.
In Mobile, etc., R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42,
43, this Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Lurton, said:
"The law of evidence is full of presumptions either of
fact or law. The former are, of course, disputable, and
the strength of any inference of one fact from proof of another depends upon the generality of the experience upon
which it is founded ...
"Legislation providing that proof of one fact shall constitute prima facie evidence of the main fact in issue is
but to enact a rule of evidence, and quite within the general power of government. Statutes, National and state,
dealing with such methods of proof in both civil and
criminal cases abound, and the decisions upholding them
are numerous ....
"That a legislative presumption of one fact from evidence of another may not constitute a denial of due process
of law or a denial of the equal protection of the law it is
only essential that there shall be some rational connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed, and that the inference of one fact from proof of
another shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely
arbitrary mandate. So, also, it must not, under guise of
regulating the presentation of evidence, operate to preclude the party from the right to present his defense to
the main fact thus presumed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

See also, Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 25;
State v. Moriarty, 50 Conn. 415, 417; Commonwealth v.
Williams, 6 Gray 1, 3; State v. Sheehan, 28 R. I. 160.
The legislative provisions here assailed satisfy these
requirements in respect of due process. They have been
upheld against similar attacks, without exception so far
as we are advised, by the lower federal courts. Charley
Toy v. United States, 266 Fed. 326, 239; Gee Woe
v. United States. 250 Fed. 428; Ng Choy Fong v. United
States, 245 Fed. 305; United States v. Yee Fing, 222 Fed.
154; United States v. Ah Hung, 243 Fed. 762 764. We
think it is not an illogical inference that opium, found
in this country more than four years (in the present case.
more than fourteen years) after its importation had been
prohibited, was unlawfully imported. Nor do we think
the further provision, that possession of such opium in
the absence of a satisfactory explanation shall create a
presumption of guilt, is "so unreasonable as to be a
purely arbitrary mandate." By universal sentiment, and
settled policy as evidenced by state and local legislation
for more than half a century, opium is an illegitimate
commodity, the use of which, except as a medicinal agent,
is rigidly condemned. Legitimate possession, unless for
medicinal use, is so highly improbable that to say to any
person who obtains the outlawed commodity, "since you
are bound to know that it cannot be brought into this
country at all, except under regulation for medicinal use,
you must at your peril ascertain and be prepared to show
the facts and circumstances which rebut, or tend to rebut,
the natural inference of unlawful importation, or your
knowledge of it," is not such an unreasonable requirement as to cause it to fall outside the constitutional power
of Congress.
Every accused person, of course, enters upon his trial
clothed with the presumption of innocence. But that
presumption may be overcome, not only by direct proof,
but, in many cases, when the facts standing alone are

YEE HEM v. U. S.
178

Opinion of the Court.

not enough, by the additional weight of a countervailing
legislative presumption. If the effect of the legislative
act is to give to the facts from which the presumption
is drawn an artificial value to some extent, it is no more
than happens in respect of a great variety of presumptions not resting upon statute. See Dunlop v. United
States, 165 U. S. 486, 502-503; Wilson v. United States,
162 U. S. 613, 619. In the Wilson case the accused,
charged with murder, was found, soon after the homicide, in possession of property that had belonged to the
dead man. This Court upheld a charge of the trial court
to the effect that such possession required the accused
to account for it, to show that as far as he was concerned
the possession was innocent and honest, and that if not
so accounted for it became "the foundation for a presumption of guilt against the defendant."
The point that the practical effect of the statute creating the presumption is to compel the accused person to be
a witness against hinself may be put aside with slight discussion. The statute compels nothing. It does no more
than to make possession of the prohibited article prima
facie evidence of guilt. It leaves the accused entirely free
to testify or not as he chooses. If the accused happens
to be the only repository of the facts necessary to negative the presumption arising from his possession, that is
a misfortune which the statute under review does not
create but which is inherent in the case. The same situation might present itself if there were no statutory presumption and a prima facie case of concealment with
knowledge of unlawful importation were made by the evidence. The necessity of an explanation by the accused
would be quite as compelling in that case as in this; but
the constraint upon him to give testimony would arise
there, as t arises here, simply from the force of circumstances and not from any form of compulsion forbidden
by the Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.

