OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

268 U. S.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. REYNOLDSDAVIS GROCERY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 329.

Submitted April 21, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

Where the final carrier named in the bill of lading on a through interstate shipment employs a carrier not named in the bill nor participant in the joint rate to switch the car for the rate named in its
tariff from a point on the lines of the former carrier to the consignee's warehouse on the lines of the latter, both within the city
named in the bill as destination, the first carrier is the delivering
carrier and the second merely its agent for the purpose of delivery,
so that the one is liable for loss of the goods while in the hands
of the other. Oregon-Washington R. R. v. McGinn, 258 U. S. 409,
distinguished. P. 368.
161 Ark. 579, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas which affirmed a judgment entered on a verdict
against the Railroad in an action by the Grocery Company
to recover damages for loss of a car-load of sugar.

Messrs. Thomas B. Pryor and Vincent M. Miles for
petitioner. Mr. Edward J. White was also on the brief.
The entire charge for the transportation from Louisiana to Fort Smith was covered by tariffs on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. A part of this charge
was the amount paid the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway
for transporting the car from the line of the Missouri Pacific to the warehouse of the respondent. This switching
rate was properly a part of the "freight charges" and,
therefore, the St. Louis-San Francisco shared in the
freight charges. Notwithstanding the absolute liability
of the initial carrier, under the Interstate Commerce Act,
a presumption arises, in the absence of proof as to where
the loss or damage to the shipment occurred, that the delivering carrier was negligent, in a suit against an inter-

MISSOURI PAC. v. REYNOLDS-DAVIS.
366

367

Argiunent for Petitioner.

mediate or delivering carrier. Georgia etc. R. R. v. Blish
Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190. In a suit for loss or damage
to freight in transit, there is no presumption against an
intermediate carrier, which is neither the initial nor the
delivering carrier, that the loss or damage occurred on its
line, and a recovery may be had against it only upon actual
proof that the loss or damage occurred on its line. Oregon, Washington R. R. v. McGinn, 258 U. S. 409. The
Interstate Commerce Commission has power to fix the
charges for delivering cars on a private track. Terminal
Railroad v. United States, 266 U. S. 17. Grand Trunk
Railway v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 231 U. S. 457,
held that Congress has not so taken over the whole subject of terminals, team tracks, switching tracks and sidings
of interstate railways as to invalidate state regulations
relative to the interchange of traffic. This Court in
United States v. Penna. R. R., 266 U. S. 191, upheld the
power of the Commission to treat movements such as this
as transportation and to regulate them.
The Missouri Pacific had not directly contracted with
the respondent.
Under the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by the
Transportation Act, ยง 15, Pars. 3 and 4, 41 Stat. 485, the
Interstate Commerce Commission approved a tariff fixing the rate that the St. Louis-San Francisco might charge
for moving this car under its own control and with its own
locomotive and over its own line of railroad, to the door
of respondent's warehouse. Prior to the time Congress
entered this field, the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company
might have made a private contract with the St. Louis-San
Francisco Railway Company for such movement, but as
the case stands the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway was
performing a service as a common carrier under a tariff
approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, pursuant to authority granted it by an act of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Messrs. Joseph M. Hill, Harry P. Daily, and John P.
Woods, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought in a state court of Arkansas
by Reynolds-Davis Grocery Company against the Missouri Pacific Railroad to recover for the loss of part of a
carload of sugar shipped from Raceland, Louisiana, to
Fort Smith, Arkansas, on a through bill of lading. The
loss occurred within the city of Fort Smith while the car
was in the possession of the Saint Louis-San Francisco
Railroad. This carrier had been employed by the Missouri Pacific to switch the car from a point on its lines
within the city to the consignee's warehouse, which lay
within the city on the lines of the switching carrier. The
Missouri Pacific, relying upon Oregon-Washington Railroad & Navigation Co. v. McGinn, 258 U. S. 409, requested the trial court to rule that, as the bill of lading
provided that no connecting carrier should be liable for
any damage which did not occur on its own lines, and
delivery at the consignee's warehouse was part of an
interstate shipment, the defendant was not liable, because
it was neither the initial nor the delivering carrier. The
court refused to rule as requested; the jury found for
the plaintiff; and the judgment entered on the verdict
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. 161
Ark. 579. This Court granted a writ of certiorari. 265
U. S. 577.
The joint through rate covered delivery at the warehouse of the consignee. The bill of lading named iorgan's Louisiana & Texas Railroad and Steamship Company as the initial carrier and the route designated
therein named the Missouri Pacific as the last of the connecting carriers. Its lines enter Fort Smith but do not
extend to the consignee's warehouse. It employed the

