OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

READING STEEL CASTING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,

TRANSFERRED

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 233.

Argued January 26, 1925.-Decided April 27, 1925.

1. Upon review of a judgment of the District Court in an action on
a claim against the United States, (Jud. Code ยง 24, par. 20,) facts
admitted and concessions made by the parties may be considered
with the lower court's findings of fact. P. 188.
2. A contract between a private party and the United States for
sale of goods by the one to the other is to be construed, and the
rights of the parties under it determined, by the same principles
as if it were between individuals. Id.
3. Casting's, defective because of checks, were delivered to the Government under a contract allowing the vendor to remedy such defects after their extent should be revealed by machining, the burden
of which was assumed by the Government. The machining was
not done. Held that the Government's failure to inspect the castings and give notice of rejection, within a reasonable time,
amounted to an acceptance. P. 187.
Reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in favor of
the United States in an action on contract. The case
went to the Circuit Court of Appeals and was transferred.
293 Fed. 386.

Mr. Paul C. Wagner for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General was on the

brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion
Court.

of the

This action was brought under ยง 24, par. 20 of the
Judicial Code, to recover $7581.95, alleged to be due upon

READING CO. v. U. S.
186

Opinion of the Court.

a contract between plaintiff and defendant. The court
gave judgment in favor of defendant. Plaintiff took the
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals on writ of error, but
it should have been brought to this court. J. Homer
Fritch, Inc. v. United States, 248 U. S. 458; Campbell
v. United States, 26.6 U. S.368. The case was transferred
to this court under ยง 238a, Judicial Code; Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837. 293 Fed. 386.
The facts admitted include the following. September
4, 1918, plaintiff made a contract with the Post Quartermaster, United States Marine Corps, Quantico, Virginia,
acting under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy
for and in behalf of the United States. By it, plaintiff
agreed to furnish two fly-wheels according to certain
drawings, each to be cast in halves "in the rough." Delivery was to be made by September 28, 1918, at Reading, Pennsylvania, for shipment to the De La Vergne
Machine Company, New York City. The contract contained a provision that upon delivery, and as a condition
precedent to their acceptance, the castings should be inspected and approved by defendant, and that any article
not so approved would be rejected and should be removed
by plaintiff immediately after receipt of notification of
such rejection. The court found facts as follows. "The
plaintiff failed to perform its contract in that the castings
were defective because of the presence of checks. These
defects could have been remedied by welding, and the
castings thus made to conform to contract. The extent of
the cracks and the consequent required welding could not
be determined until after the castings had been machined. Plaintiff sent the castings to the company which
was to- do the machining, and plaintiff was given the
privilege of welding the cracks when disclosed by the
machining. This welding was, however, not done, nor the
castings made as required by the contract. The smaller
casting which was the first casting supplied was inspected

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

and rejected within a reasonable time. After partial
welding it was again inspected and rejected within a
reasonable time. The large casting was not inspected
until after a reasonable time. This wheel was shipped
December 27, 1918, and reached its destination before
February 7, 1919. It had not been inspected on December 6, 1919, and notice of inspection and rejection wis
not given until October 26, 1920, after suit brought."
In its brief, defendant contends that the plaintiff was
bound by the contract to weld checks disclosed by machining; and the plaintiff so construes the contract. The
facts admitted and the concessions made by the parties
may be considered with the findings of fact made by the
district court. This is not inconsistent with the rule
stated in Croclker v. United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78, restricting our inquiry to a consideration of the case on the
findings. See Ackerlind v. United States, 240 U. S. 531,
535. The contract is to be construed and the rights of
the parties are to be determined by the application of the
same principles as if the contract were between individuals. Smoot's Case, 15 Wall. 36, 47; Manufacturing
Company v. United States, 17 Wall. 592, 595; United
States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214, 217.
As the castings for the smaller wheel were not made to
conform to the contract by the welding of the checks for
which it was rejected within a reasonable time, plaintiff
is not entitled to recover on account of it.
The defendant failed within a reasonable time to inspect the castings for the larger wheel or to give notice of
rejection. Plaintiff was not in default. It made delivery
as agreed by shipping the castings to the company which
was to do the machining. Plaintiff was not bound to
have the machining done, and, as between it and defendant, that burden was on the latter. The extent of the
checks could not be determined before the castings were
machined. Defendant was bound by the contract to ac-

