WESTERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
263

Syllabus.

notice, but adopted for the preservation of its rights the
method of endorsing its protests upon the separate vouchers. Having adopted this method of procedure it was
compelled to follow it in order to preserve its rights. Between January 1 and October 1, 1914, about three-fifths
of the vouchers, and between October 1, 1914 and June
18, 1916, about two-sevenths, bore no protest. The number is too great to be presumptively explained on the
theory of inadvertence and oversight. There is nothing
in the findings of fact to indicate that this was the case,
and no explanation whatever appears for the absence of
the protests. Under these circumstances we think that
as to all the bills presented on land-grant vouchers after
January 1, 1914, which bore no protest whatever, the case
is in the same situation as the bills .vhich were presented
prior to that date, without any protest; and that for the
same reason it must be held that the presentation of these
vouchers at the land-grant rates and the acceptance of
payment thereof, established an acquiescence on the part
of the claimant which discharged its claim for further
compensation at the full tariff rates.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 287.

Argued November 19, 20, 1924.-Decided May 11, 1925.

1. Where transportation bills at land-grant rates bore endorsements
sufficiently notifying government officers that payment at those

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

rates to the railroad was not accepted in final settlement, the railroad was not barred by acquiescence from further claiming the difference between the amounts received and the lawful tariff fares.
See So. Pacific Co. v. United States, ante, p. 263. P. 274.
2. Claims accruing more than six years before beginning the action
in the Court of Claims are barred by Jud. Code ยง 156. P. 275.
3. The provision of Rev. Stats. ยง 3477 that all transfers and assignments of any claim against the United States shall be absolutely
null and void unless made after the allowance of such claims and
the ascertainment of the amcunt due, does not apply to a transfer
of claims through a judicial sale under an order of court. St.
Paul Railroad v. United States, 112 U. S. 733, distinguished.
P. 275.
59 Ct. Cls. 67, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting claims of a railroad for transporting passengers for the
Government.
Mr. George Francis Williams, with whom Mr. Henry
C. Clark was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered
Court.

the opinion of the

This case, which was heard with Southern Pacific Co.

v. United States, ante, p. 263, just decided, is a similar
action brought by the Western Pacific Railroad to recover the difference between the land-grant rates and the
full tariff rates for the transportation of passengers carried
at the request of the Government. The Court of Claims,

on its findings of fact, entered judgment dismissing the
petition. 59 Ct. Cls. 67.
The petition covers claims for transportation services

alleged to have been furnished between September 24,

WESTERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
271

Opinion of the Court.

1914, and June 18, 1916,1 (a) by the Western Pacific

Railway, a predecessor in title of the claimant; (b) by
receivers of the property of said Railway appointed in
a suit brought against it by a Trustee in a Federal District
Court in California; and (c) by the claimant, which became the purchaser of the property of said Railway under
a sale made in the said suit.
The material facts, as found, are as follows: During the
period in question the Western Pacific Railway-which
had entered into the so-called land-grant equalization
agreements 2 for the transportation of troops of the United
States at land-grant rates-the receivers in the said suit,
and the claimant, successively carried as passengers, on
Government requests, various discharged and retired soldiers, discharged military prisoners, and other persons.
Bills for the transportation of such persons were presented by the Railway, the receivers, and the claimant,
respectively, on land-grant vouchers, claiming land-grant
rates, as in the Southern Pacific Case, supra. In all cases,
however, there was typewritten on the vouchers before
they were presented, an endorsement in the following
form: "As United States Government accounting officers
claim that they have no authority to allow or pay for
the transportation of [here is typewritten the class of
travel objected to] more than the fares for troops of the
United States, such fares are shown herein but under
protest, and the Western Pacific Railway Co. for itself
and connecting carriers does not waive [?] of its rights
to full publish-tariff fares and payment of any less
amount will be accepted as part payment only for the
services performed." All these vouchers were presented
to the Government disbursing officers, and were paid by
'On the hearing other claims covering transportation furnished
by the claimant after June 18, 1916, the effective date of the socalled "interterritorial military arrangement," were withdrawn.
'Southern Pacific Co. v. United States, supra.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

them in the amounts of the land-grant rates, as claimed;
and all these payments were accep ted by the Railway,
the receivers and the claimant, respectively.
Pursuant to a sale made under a decree in the Trustee's suit in the District Court the claimant, acquired by a
special master's deed all the property, assets and choses
in action belonging to the Western Pacific Railway or to
its receivers. In 1920, after payment had been received
of all the land-grant vouchers, the claimant presented to
the proper accounting officers of the Government supplemental claims covering the balance of the full passenger fares on all the transportation in question. These
were disallowed; and the claimant on February 2, 1921,
brought the present action.
1. It is not questioned that in the light of the decision
in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad,249 U. S. 354,
none of the classes of persons here in question can be regarded as troops of the United States, and that the claimant and its predecessors would have been entitled originally to compensation at the full passenger rates. The
Government contends, however, that-as was held by the
Court of Claims-the action of the claimant and its predecessors in voluntarily presenting their bills at landgrant rates and accepting payment thereof, precludes the
recovery of the balance of the full rates to which they
would otherwise have been entitled. In this aspect the
present case is in all respects similar to the Southern
Pacific Case, supra, and is controlled by the decision
therein; and on the authority of that decision we hold
that the endorsements on the vouchers sufficiently notified the Government officers that the payment of landgrant rates was not accepted in final settlement of the
transportation claims, and that the Government has not
established an acquiescence in the payment of such rates
which discharges the claims for the remainder of the full
tariff fares.

WESTERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
271

275

Opinion of the Court.

2. All the claims which accrued more than six years
prior to the beginning of the present action are, however,
barred by the express provision contained in ยง 156 of the
Judicial Code. This was recognized by the Court of
Claims, and is not here questioned.
3. The Government further contends that as to the
claims for transportation furnished by the Western
Pacific Railway and its receivers, which were acquired
by the claimant under the special master's deed, a recovery is precluded by ยง 3477 of the Revised Statutes.
This section provides, inter alia, that all transfers and
assignments of any claim against the United States, shall
be "absolutely null and void," unless made after the allowance of such claims and the ascertainment of the amount
due. The object of this section is to protect the Government and prevent frauds upon the Treasury. It applies
only to cases of voluntary assignment of demands against
the Government, and does not embrace cases where there
has been a transfer of title by operation of law. United
States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, 416; Erwin v. United States,
97 U. S. 392, 397; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556,
560; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410, 421. And see Seaboard Air Line v. United States, 256 U. S. 655, 657. In
Price v. Forrest,supra,p. 422, it was specifically held that
this section did not apply to the assignment of a claim
to a receiver under the order of a court, this being "the
act of the law." So here the sale to the claimant of so
much of the claims as had-accrued to the receivers for
transportation furnished by them, was clearly a transfer
by operation of law and did not come within the prohibition of the statute.
As to the claims for the transportation that had been
previously furnished by the Western Pacific Railway, the
Government relies upon St. Paul Railroad v. United
States, 112 U. S. 733, 736, in which there was a general
statement-not necessarily involved in the decision of the

