SHERWIN v. UNITED STATES.
366

Opinion of the Court.

Saint Louis-San Francisco to perform the necessary
switching service. And it paid therefor $6.30, the charge
fixed by the tariff on file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The switching carrier was not named in the
bill of lading and did not receive any part of the joint
through rate. It was simply the agent of the Missouri
Pacific for the purpose of delivery. The Missouri Pacific
was the delivering carrier and is liable as such.
Affirmed.
CHARLES SHERWIN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 379.

Argued April 16, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

Section 9 of the Federal Trade Commission Act grants immunity
from prosecution only where testimony is given or evidence produced before the commission in obedience to a subpoena issued by
it, and not where information was furnished upon the demand made
by an agent of the commission after the commission had requested
such information by letter. P. 372.
290 Fed. 517; 297 id. 704, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court. of

Appeals affirming a conviction and sentence in a criminal
case in the District Court in which the petitioner's plea
of immunity was denied.
Mr. S. R. Sayers, with whom Mr. W. P. McLean was
on the brief, for petitioners.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Sherwin and Schwarz were indicted in the federal court
for northern Texas, under § 215 of the Criminal Code, for

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

using the mails in consummation of a scheme to defraud;
and also, under § 37, for a conspiracy to commit the
offense. They filed in bar a plea of immunity under §
9 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, September 26,
1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717, 723. Their claim was that the
indictment rested upon information which the Commission had compelled them to give. There was a replication; issue was joined; a trial was had upon the plea; and
under instructions of the court, the jury found against
the defendants upon their plea of immunity. They were
found guilty upon the various counts of the indictment
and sentenced. United States v. Lee, 290 Fed. 517. The
judgment was affirmed by the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals. 297 Fed. 704. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari. 265 U. S. 578. Whether the giving of the
information under circumstances to be stated created an
immunity is the sole question for decision.
The Federal Trade Commission Act in § 5 empowers
and directs the commission to prevent the use of unfair
methods of competition and provides for proceedings to
that end. In § 6 it provides that the commission shall
have power to investigate the practices of corporations
engaged in interstate commerce; and may require of them
special reports in writing, under oath or otherwise, concerning their practices. In § 9 it provides that the commission or its agents shall "have access to, for the purpose
of examination, and the right to copy any documentary
evidence of any corporation being investigated or proceeded against "; and "to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all
such documentary evidence relating to any matter under
investigation. Any member of the commission may sign
subpoenas, and members and examiners of the commission
may.administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses,
and receive evidence." Methods of enforcing obedience
to such orders are provided by § 9. Refusal "to attend

SHERWIN v. UNITED STATES.
369

Opinion of the Court.

and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce
documentary evidence . .
in obedience to the subpoena or lawful requirenment of the commission" is punishable criminally under § 10. It is further provided
by § 9:
"No person shall be excused from attending and testifying or from producing documentary evidence before the
commission or in obedience to the subpoena of the commission on the ground or for the reason that the testimony
or evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of him
may tend to criminate him or subject him to a penalty
or forfeiture. But no natural person shall be prosecuted
or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account
of any transaction, matter, or thing concerning which he
may testify, or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, before the commission in obedience to a subpoena
issued by it: Provided, That no natural person so: testifying shall be exempt from prosecution and punishment for
perjury committed in so testifying."
Sherwin and Schwarz were the promoters of alleged
gas and oil properties conducted under the names of General Lee Interests Nos. 1 and 2, and General Lee Development Interests. The commission addressed to the concern letters requesting, under §§ 5, 6, 9 and 10 of the
Act, detailed information in writing concerning its organization and business. No reply was made thereto. Later,
an agent of the commission, referred to as a special examiner, called in person at the office of the concern and
demanded the information. This was at first refused, on
the ground that the concern, being a common law trust,
was not subject to the jurisdiction of the commission.
The agent insisted that the Act required Sherwin and
Schwarz to give the information and answers sought;
pointed out that refusal to comply with the commission's
request would subject them to the criminal penalties
provided in the Act; and, in so doing, omitted to call to

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

their attention the provision granting immunity from
subsequent prosecution under certain circumstances.
Conferences were then had with their legal adviser.
Thereupon, they gave the agent access to books and papers; furnished him copies of some documents; and answered freely the enquiries made by him. It does not
appear that the commission, or any member thereof, ever
issued any order in the matter. There was no hearing
of any kind, unless the informal conversations of the
agent with Sherwin and Schwarz could be called such.
No subpoena from any source was ever served upon Sherwin or Schwarz or any other person connected with their
business. No one made any answer under oath either
orally or in writing. There was no claim by Sherwin or
Schwarz of immunity, or that the giving of information
might tend to incriminate the m. The subsequent prosecution which resulted in the indictment was instituted by
a post office inspector. It does not appear that the Federal Trade Commission had any part in the prosecution
or communicated any of the information gained to any
government officials who did have; or that any fact was
elicited by the commission which connected Sherwin and
Schwarz with the crime of which they were convicted.
The question is not, as in Councilman v. Hitchcock, 142
U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; and Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, whether the immunity provided
by the Act is sufficiently broad to deprive the witness of
his constitutional privilege against self-incrimination. It
may be that, for this and other reasons, Sherwin and
Schwarz could not have been compelled to furnish the
information which they gave. See Federal Trade Commission v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298. The
quest-ion is not, as in Glickstein v. United States, 222
U. S. 139, and Cameron v. United States, 231 U. S. 710,
whether an admitted immunity extends to the particular
attempted use of the testimony. Nor is it necessary to

