OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

NORTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STORY, SHERIFF OF ALAMANCE COUNTY,
NORTH CAROLINA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO TILE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 322. Argued April 14, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.
1. A judgment of a state supreme court affirming the refusal of a
lower court to continue a temporary restraining order and to grant a
permanent injunction on the petition and answer, and leaving nothing for the lower court to do but dismiss the petition, held a final
judgment and reviewable by certiorari under Jud. Code § 237, as
amended September 6, 1916. P. 291.
2. An appellate court, upon an appeal from a temporary or interlocutory order or decree, has power, under general equity practice,
to examine the merits, if sufficiently shown by the pleadings and
record, and, upon deciding them for the defendant, to dismiss the
bill. Id.
3. A judgment not appealed from, however erroneous, is res judicata.
P. 292.
4. Section 206 (g) of the Transportation Act of 1920, providing: "No
execution or process . . . shall be levied upon the property of
any carrier where the cause of action on account of which the judgment was obtained grew out of the possession, use, control, or
operation of any railroad or system of transportation by the President under Federal control," does not prevent judgments in the
cases specified but protects the carrier's property from execution
under them. Id.
5. A decision by a state supreme court that a judgment recovered
against a carrier for personal injuries suffered while its railroad was
under federal control conclusively established the right to recover
a second judgment in an action on the first, is not a decision that
the first judgment established plaintiff's right to levy execution on
the carrier's property notwithstanding § 206 (g) of the Transportation Act. P. 293.
6. The reasoning and opinion of a court are not res judicata unless
the subject matter be definitely disposed by the decree. P. 294.
187 N. C. 184, reversed.

NORTH CAROLINA R. R. v. STORY.
288
CERTIORARI

Opinion of the Court.

to a decree of the Supreme Court of

North Carolina affirming a decree which refused relief by
injunction against the levy upon the Railroad's property
of an execution to satisfy a judgment based on another
judgment, which last had been 'recovered in an action
against the railroad for personal injuries. See also 184
N. C. 442.
Mr. S. R. Prince, with whom Messrs. H. O'B. Cooper,
TV. M. Hendren and L. E. Jeffries were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Chapin, Brown, with whom Messrs. Robert C.
Strudwick and William P. Bynum were on the briefs, for
respondents.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The questions in this case are two. One is of our
jurisdiction to issue the writ of certiorari to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, and
turns on its finality. The second is whether a judgment
of that court against the North Carolina Railroad Company for injuries caused by the operation of the road
by the United States will bar a suit by the Company to
enjoin the execution of such judgment against its property under §, 206 (g) of the Transportation Act of 1920
(c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 462). The relevant part of the
section reads as follows:
"No execution or process . . . shall be levied upon
the property of any carrier where the cause of action
on account of which the judgment was obtained grew
out of the possession, use, control, or operation of any
railroad or system of transportation by the President
under Federal control."
Maggie Barber was killed in North Carolina by a collision between a locomotive of the Southern Railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Company and an automobile in which she was riding.
It was on the line of the North Carolina Railroad Company, then under a long lease to the Southern Railway
Company. King, the administrator of the deceased, sued
the North Carolina Company, in the Superior Court of
Guilford County, charging negligence by defendant's lessee. The defendant by answer denied that the death
was caused by the negligence of its lessee or its employees, because the railroad was then being operated by the
Director General of Railroads. The jury returned a verdict for $2,500 and judgment was entered. An appeal
was attempted but was not perfected, due, it is said, to
the illness of counsel. Without seeking execution, the
administrator instituted a second suit, based on the first
judgment, averring that it was unpaid. The Company
by answer set up § 206 (g), above quoted, as a defense,
and averred that the second suit was brought to evade
the section. The plaintiff demurred, on the ground that
the first judgment had become res judicata. The court
rendered judgment with interest and further costs. The
Company appealed, and the judgment was affirmed. 184
N. C. 442. The Company opposed execution in the lower
court, and excepted to the order directing it to Story, the
Sheriff of Alamance County, to be levied upon certain
real estate of the Company in that county.
The Company then brought the present action based
on § 206 (g) in the Superior Court of Guilford County
against Story and the administrator, seeking to enjoin
permanently the execution. The defendants answering
admitted the execution but pleaded the second judgment
as res judicata. The Company secured a temporary restraining order and a rule on the defendants to show
cause why the temporary order should not be continued
and made permanent. On hearing, the motion to continue the order and make it permanent was denied. The
court, pending plaintiff's appeal, stayed the execution

NORTH CAROLINA R. R. v. STORY.
288

Opinion of the Court.

upon the giving of bond, while the plaintiff was taxed
with the costs of the case. On appeal, the action of the
lower court was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 187
N. C. 184. This Court then granted a certiorari and
brought, the case here. 264 U. S. 579.
Section 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act
of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, provides that
final judgments of the highest court of a State are subject
to review by certiorari. Is this judgment a, final judgment? We think it is. In its terms it affirms the refusal of the lower court to continue the temporary order
and to grant a permanent injunction. The Supreme
Court based its decision on the facts admitted in the petition and answer. Its judgment was that the previous
judgment as between the parties was res judicata, estopped the Company from resisting execution and thereby
deprived it of any right to either a temporary or permanent injunction. Injunction was the only relief which
the Company sought or could seek under its petition and
prayer. The affirmance of the judgment of the lower
court upon the certified opinion of the Supreme Court,
left. nothing for the Guilford County Court to do but to
dismiss the petition. Something is said about other
issues raised by the administrator in his answer; but the
ruling of the Supreme Court ignored them and disposed
of the case in his favor. Such a decree is a final decree.
Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company v. Manning,
186 U. S. 238; Mower v. Fletcher, 114 U. S. 127; Commissioners v. Lucas, Treasurer, 93 U. S. 108; Flemming
v. Roberts, 84 N. C. 532, 539. See also Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201; Bronson v. Railroad Company, 2 Black,
524; Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283; Crosby v. Buchanan,
23 Wall. 420; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342. Compare
Headman v. Commissioners, 177 N. C. 261.
It is said that the judge of the lower court to whom the
application for the continuance of the temporary injunc-

292

OCTOBER TERMvf, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tion and the granting of a permanent injunction in this
case had been referred by the regular judge of Guilford
County, was a judge of a court of another county, and had
by the practice of the State no power to grant a permanent injunction, and so that the appeal from his order
denying the application to continue the temporary injunction did not bring to the Supreme Court for its decision
the question of the issue of a permanent injunction. The
report of the case in the Supreme Court shows it as one
presenting the question of an application to continue the
temporary injunction and to make it permanent, and,
whatever the power of a judge of a court in another county
in North Carolina to allow a permanent injunction in his
court, we must assume from the action of the Supreme
Court, and the recital of what was before it, that it
intended the Guilford County Court on the coming down
of its mandate to terminate the case by following its opinion. By the ordinary practice in equity as administered
in England and this country an appellate court has the
power on appeal from a temporary or interlocutory order
or decree, to examine the merits of the case if sufficiently
shown by the pleadings and the record and upon deciding
them in favor of the defendant to dismiss the bill and save
both parties the needless expense of further prosecution
of the suit. Smith v. Vulcan, Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518,
523, 524, and cases cited; Denver v. New York Trust Co.,
229 U. S. 123; Mcccano Ltd. v. John Wanamaker, 253
U. S. 136, 141. We think we have jurisdiction.
Coining now to the merits, it may be conceded that the
first judgment against the Company in favor of the administrator, however erroneous it was in view of the cases of
MissouriPacificRailroadv. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, and North
Carolina Railroad Company v. Lee, Administrator, 260
U. S. 16, not having been appealed from was res judicata.
Nor could § 206 (g) prevent the second judgment. It was
not directed against judgments. It was intended to pro-

NORTH CAROLINA R. R. v. STORY.
288

293

Opinion of the Court.

tect the property of the Company not by preventing a
judgment but by preventing an execution to satisfy a
judgment for injury by Government operation of its road,
whether that judgment was rendered against the carrier
which leased the road, against the carrier which owned the
road, or against the Government itself. The language of
the statute assumes the existence of judgments against
carriers for fault of the Government management before
the section comes into play. There had been so much
diversity of practice as to the person against whom the
judgment should be rendered in seeking to establish and
collect claims for injuries caused in government operation
that Congress adopted this unusually broad method of
rendering the property of the carriers immune. By virtue
of a law of Congress plainly within its power, a distinction
was thus made between the judgment and the execution.
The state Supreme Court decided that the right to a judgment as between the plaintiff and the Railroad Company
in the second case was established by the first judgment,
not that a right to execution thereon was established. 184
N. C. 442.
After considering the contention made by the Company
against the right to a judgment because of § 206 (g), the
court said (page 448):
"It might suffice to say in answer to this position that
plaintiff thus far has not undertaken to levy any process
or execution against the property of the defendant road,
and his proceeding, therefore, does not come within the
literal terms of the provision on which he here relies, but
inasmuch as the answer contains averment that plaintiff is
wrongfully seeking in this present suit to avoid the force
and effect of the statutory provision just quoted, we consider it pertinent to say that in our opinion the judgment
sued on does not come within the inhibition as stated."
The Court then proceeded to consider § 10 of the Federal Control Act, 40 Stat. 456, and paragraphs A, B, C,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

D, E, and G of § 206 of the Transportation Act of 1920,
and to hold that the former was a prohibition against
physical interference by third persons, creditors or others,
while the road was in the possession of the Government,
and that the latter was a protection of the carriers in possession from physical interference by actions or judgments
provided and allowed for by the Government. "But,"
said the Court, "this legislation in our view was never
intended to protect the carriers from judgments in independent suits by claimants when they have failed to plead
or properly insist on the immunity from liability which
had been provided for their protection." In effect, the
Court gave two reasons for its conclusion, the first of
which was that it was not dealing with an execution and
the second that § 206 (g) did not apply to either a judgment or an execution in a case like the one before it.
But the point adjudged was not the effect of § 206
(g) on an execution, whatever the inference from the
Court's reasoning. The estoppel of the Court's conclusion reached only the judgment
It is well settled that the principle of res judicata is
only applicable to the point adjudged and not to points
only collaterally under consideration, or incidentally under
cognizance or only to be inferred by arguing from the
decree. Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 114; Norton v.
Larney, 266 U. S. 511, 517. The reasoning and opinion of
the court are not res judicataunless the subject matter in
issue be definitely disposed of by the decree. Keane v.
Fisher, 10 La. Ann. 261; Bridges v. McAlister, 106 Ky.
791; Probate Court v. Williams, 30 R. I. 144; ScottishAmerican Mortgage Company v. Bunckley, 88 Miss. 641;
Braun v. Wisconsin Rendering Company, 92 Wis. 245;
Citizens Bank of Emporiav. Brigham, 61 Kan. 727.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

