SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
258

263

Statement of the Case.

by state enactment that is not given them by the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. As the law does not contravene these constitutional provisions, it must be held not to violate the
treaty.
Judgment affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 285.

Argued November 19, 20, 1924.-Decided May 11, 1925.

1. Where a railroad, for transporting applicants for enlistment in
the Army, discharged, retired and furloughed soldiers, and civilian
employees of the War Department, rendered its bills at land-grant
rates, knowing that according to a ruling of the Comptroller of
the Treasury such persons were to be regarded as "troops of the
United States" for whose transportation only land-grant rates
could be paid by disbursing officers, and accepted payment of its

bills on that basis without protest, held that, though the Comptroller's ruling was erroneous, the railroad was bound by acquiescence and could not recover the difference between the amount
received and the larger amount which it would have been lawfully
entitled to charge under its tariff. P. 268.
2. But aliter where the bills, though rendered at land-grant rates,
bore a short form of protest; "Amounts claimed in this bill accepted under protest "; or a form more extended and explanatory;
since by these the government officers were sufficiently notified
that payment at the lower rates would not be accepted in final
settlement. P. 268.
3. Where, however, the railroad rendered most of its bills with indorsed protests, but a considerable number during the same period
without them, as to these latter it was bound by its acceptance of
the land-grant rates. P. 270.
59 Ct. Cls. 36, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting the appellant's claim for the difference between

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

amounts paid by the Government for transportation at
land-grant rates and the lawful tariff charges.
Mr. William R. Harr,with whom ITr. Charles H. Bates
was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to thu Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Southern Pacific Company, having carried certain
persons as passengers at the request of the Government
and received payment for such transportation at landgrant rates, brought this action to recover the difference
between the rates thus paid and the full tariff rates. The
Court of Claims, on its findings of fact, being of opinion
that the claimant by its course of proceeding and acceptance of the land-grant rates was precluded from the
recovery of the balance of the full tariff rates, entered
judgment dismissing the petition. 59 Ct. Cls. 36.
The facts found, shortly stated, are as follows: The
claimant in 1911 became a party to the so-called "landgrant equalization agreements" with the Quartermaster
General, by which it agreed (subject to certain exceptions not here material) to transport troops of the United
States at the net rates effective over land-grant lines, that
is, at fifty per cent. of the rates charged private parties.'
Thereafter, between March 1, 1912, and June 18, 1916,the claimant transported, upon Government requests, a
number of applicants for enlistment in the Army, discharged, retired and furloughed soldiers, and civilian employees in the War Department.
'See United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, 249 U. S. 354, note 1.
The date on which the so-called "interterritorial military arrangement" became effective as to the claimant and the other railroads.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
263

Opinion of the Court.

It had been previously ruled by the Comptroller of the
Treasury that such persons were to be regarded as troops
of the United States and that their transportation could
be paid for only at land-grant rates; and disbursing
officers, as the claimant knew, were authorized to make
payments on that basis only. Because of this ruling the
claimant presented its bills for all such transportation on
the form of voucher prescribed for transportation at landgrant rates, 3 in which it stated in appropriate columns the
"gross amount" of the regular fares, the "amount to be
deducted on account of land-grant," and, in the final
column, the "amount claimed" (the gross amount less
the land-grant deduction); and certified the accounts to
be correct. All these vouchers were presented to the Disbursing Quartermaster at San Francisco, and were paid
by him in the amounts claimed; and all these payments
were accepted by the claimant.
Prior to January 1, 1914, the claimant, except in one
instance, accepted payment of these bills without protest
or other objection.
After January 1, 1914, however, there was written,
typewritten or stamped by the claimant upon a part of
the land-grant vouchers, before they, were paid, a socalled short form of protest, reading as follows: "Amounts
claimed in this bill accepted under protest." This form of
protest was understood by the cldrk who handled these
bills in the office of the Disbursing Quartermaster as being
"addressed to the matter of land-grant rates," for the
purpose of reserving the claimant's right to present a
further claim for full commercial fares to the accounting
officers or the courts. The claimant used this form of
protest on 201 vouchers between January 1 and October
1, 1914;" but 303 of the vouchers presented and paid during this period bore no protest.
'See 14 Comp. Dec. 967.
'Also on one previous voucher.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

On October 1, 1914, the claimant began "systematically" to endorse in typewriting on the land-grant
vouchers, before presentment, a so-called long form of
protest, reading as follows: "As U. S. Government accounting officers claim they have no authority to allow
or pay for the transportation of discharged soldiers more
than the fares for troops of the U. S. such fares are shown
herein but under protest and S. P. Co. for itself and connecting carriers does not waive any of its rights to full
published tariff fares and any payment at any less amount
will be accepted as part payment only for the services
performed." This form of protest was used on 516 vouchers between October 1, 1914, and June 18, 1916,' but 212
of the vouchers presented and paid within this period bore
no form of protest whatever.
The claimant brought the present action in March,
1918, shortly before the decision in United States v. Union
Pacific Railroad, 249 U. S. 354. In that case the railroad
company, a party to the land-grant equalization agreement, having transported persons of all the classes that
are here in question except civilian employees, had presented to the Auditor for the War Department claims
for such transportation at the full tariff rates, and the
Auditor and Comptroller having successively refused to
allow these claims at more than the land-grant rates,
had then brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover
the full passenger fares. It was held by this court that
such persons were not troops of the United States within
the meaning of the land-grant acts and the equalization agreements, and that the railroad company was entitled to recover the full amount claimed. In the present case the Court of Claims held that in the light of
this decision none of the classes of persons here in question could be regarded as troops of the United States,
and recognized' that the claimant would have been enAlso on four previous vouchers.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
263

Opinion of the Court.

titled originally to compensation at the full passenger
rates. This is not questioned by the Government; the
sole contention being that, as was further held by the
Court of Claims, the action of the claimant in voluntarily presenting its bills at the land-grant rates and accepting payment thereof, precludes it from recovery of
the balance of the full rates to which it would otherwise have been entitled.
The question when the substantive right to recover
an amount justly due from the Government is lost
through some act or omission upon the part of the claimant, was considered at length in St. Louis, Brownsville
& Mexico Railway v. United States, ante, p. 169, in
which the decisions bearing on this question were collated. It was there said that this right "can be lost
only through some act or omission on the part of the
claimant which, under the rules of the common law as
applied by this Court to claims against the Government,
discharges the cause of action. Acquiescence by the
claimant in the payment by the Government of a smaller
amount than is due will ordinarily effect the discharge.
Acquiescence can be established by showing conduct before the payment which might have led the Government
to believe that the amount allowed was all that was
claimed, or that such amount, if paid, would be received
in full satisfaction of the claim. Acquiescence can, also,
be established by showing conduct after the payment
which might have led the Government to believe that
the amount actually received was accepted in full satisfaction of the original claim. But to constitute acquiescence within the meaning of this rule, something more
than acceptance of the smaller sum without protest must
be shown. There must mave been some conduct on the part
of the creditor akin to abandonment or waiver or from
which an estoppel may arise." The defense of acquiescence by the acceptance of a smaller sum than was actu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ally due, it was further pointed out, is not to be confused with the defense "of accord and satisfaction or
compromise of a disputed claim," evidenced by a receipt in full or a release.
Manifestly there was here "no accord and satisfaction or compromise of a disputed claim." The claimant, while presenting its bills for transportation at the
land-grant rates and accepting payment thereof, did not
execute either a receipt in full for its transportation
charges or a release thereof. The crucial question then
is whether the conduct of the claimant with reference
to the acceptance of the land-grant rates establishes an
acquiescence in the payment thereof, in the nature of an
abandonment or waiver, that operated as a discharge of
its claim for the full passenger rates. This is to be determined by the application of the rules stated in St.
Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Railway v. United States,
supra.
1. It is clear that as to all the bills which were presented at land-grant rates prior to January 1, 1914, and
paid and accepted without protest or other objection, the
conduct of the claimant was such as to lead the Government to believe that the land-grant rates were accepted
in full satisfaction of the original claims and established
an acquiescence on the part of the claimant that operated as a discharge of the claims for the full passenger
rates. Oregon-WashingtonRailroadv. United States, 255
U. S. 339, 347; Western Pacific Railroad v. United States,
255 U. S. 349, 355; Louisville & Nashville Railroad v.
United States, 258 U. S. 374, 375; Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. United States, 267 U. S. 395; St. Louis,Brownsville & Mexico Railway v. United States, supra.
This is not seriously questioned by the claimant.
2. The case is manifestly different as to those bills presented on the land-grant vouchers which bore either the
short or long form of "protest." While a "protest "has no

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
263

Opinion of the Court.

definite legal significance in connection with the receipt of
money-being ordinarily used in connection with the involuntary payment of money under legal compulsion or
duress-it may nevertheless be effective as an indication
of non-acquiescence in the receipt of the amount paid
as a final settlement of the claim. In the present case
it is clear that the use of these protests upon the vouchers was reasonably adapted to lead the Government officials to believe that the amounts of the vouchers W/ere
not all that was claimed and such amounts were not
accepted in full satisfaction of the transportation claims.
This was not only brought to the attention of the disbursing officer in the first instance, but later, in due
course, to the attention of the accounting officers by
whom the payment of the vouchers was approved. The
clerk in the office of the Disbursing Quartermaster who
handled these bills understood that the short form of protest was addressed to the matter of land-grant rates, for
the purpose of reserving the claimant's right to present
a further claim for full commercial fares; and there is
no suggestion that either the Disbursing Quartermaster
or the accounting officers understood that the payment
of the vouchers on which the protests were endorsed was
received in full settlement of the transportation claims.
We find no essential difference in this respect between
the short and long forms of protest. The short form gave
notice that the amounts claimed in the bills were "accepted under protest;" and the long form gave notice
that by reason of the claim of the Government accounting officers the fares were shown at land-grant rates, under
protest, without waiver of the claimant's right to full
tariff fares, and that the payment of less than the full
fares would be accepted "as part payment only for the
services performed." And the fact that a preliminary reference was made merely to the claim of the accounting
officers as to discharged soldiers, did not destroy the effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

of the protest in its entirety as a notice that the landgrant rates were claimed and accepted in part payment
only.
We conclude that the endorsement of these protests
on the vouchers sufficiently notified the government
officers that the payment of the land-grant rates was not
accepted in final settlement of transportation claims, and
that, as to such vouchers, the Government has not established an acquiescence in the payment of the land-grant
rates which discharges the claims for the remainder of
the full tariff fares. And we are of opinion that the claimant was not compelled, at its peril, to present its claims
originally for the full tariff rates, as was done in the
Union Pacific case-which would have involved delay
in the payment of any part of its claims-but that, having
first presented its claim for the land-grant rates accompanied by notices showing that it did not accept such
rates in final settlement, it was thereafter entitled tq
bring suit for the recovery of the remainder of the full
tariff fares.
3. A different question arises, however, as to those bills
which were presented on land-grant vouchers after January 1, 1914, upon which no protests were endorsed. It
is perhaps true that the claimant, although presenting its
bills on land-grant vouchers, might have sufficiently preserved its right to full compensation by a general notice,
in advance, to the War Department that in so doing and
in accepting payment on such vouchers at land-grant
rates it did not intend to waive its claims to the full tariff
rates and reserved the right to present subsequently its
claims for the difference between the amounts paid and
the full rates, and that in such case it would not have been
essential to the claimant's right to full compensation that
each specific bill should be accompanied by a notice showing its non-acquiescence therein as a final settlement.
This, however, it did not do. It gave no such general

