STEBBINS v. RILEY.
121

Syllabus.

cannot complain of laches. See Insurance Company v.
Eldridge, 102 U. S. 545, 548.
We hold that Dunn and Gillam were constructive trustees of whatever interest they acquired in the Thomas
lease and of the proceeds derived from the transfer thereof
to the Bull Head Oil Company, whatever its form,
whether stock or money, and that they and all defendants
claiming under them, other than innocent purchasers for
value, may in equity be compelled to account to the plaintiff for such proceeds, for the benefit of the minor.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, with respect only to the defendants T. H. Dunn, N. E. Dunn.
J. Robert Gillam and Mrs. J. Robert Gillam, is-reversed
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in accordance with this 6 pinion; as to the
other defendants the appeal was barred by the agreement
entered into by the appellant with them and as to them
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
So ordered.
Reversed, in part; affirmed, in part.
STEBBINS AND HURLEY, AS EXECUTRIX AND
EXECUTOR OF THE WILL OF WATKINSON,
DECEASED v. RILEY, CONTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 227.

COURT OF THE STATE
FORNIA.

OF CALI-

Argued March 9, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. The California Inheritance Tax Law of 1917, § 2, sub-div. 10, by
providing that in determining the market value of the property
transferred, for the purpose of fixing the amount of tax, no deduction should be made of the Federal Estate Tax, (assessed upon the
whole estate,) resulted in a much larger proportionate tax on
the succession to the residuum of an estate when the estate was
large than when it was small, though the residuary bequest and

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

the residuary estate were equal in each instance. Held consistent
with the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 140.
2. There are two elements in the transfer of a decedent's estate, exercise of the legal power to transmit at death and privilege of succession, and both may be made the basis of classification in a single
state taxing statute, so that the amount of tax which a legatee
shall pay may be made to depend both on the total net amount
of the decedent's estate subject to the jurisdiction of the State and
passing under its inheritance and testamentary laws, and the
amount of the legacy to which the legatee succeeds under those
laws. P. 144.
191 Cal. 591, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California sustaining, on review, a judgment of the Superior
Court confirming an assessment of inheritance taxes.
Mr. Carey Van Fleet, with whom Messrs. Joseph G.
De Forest,Sidney M. Ehrman,Maurice E. Harrison,William M. Madden, Lloyd M. Robbins and Luther Elkins
ware on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Ralph W. Smith, Inheritance Tax Attorney for
California, with whom Messrs. Wesley E. Marten, Dion
R. Holm, Arthur W. Brouillett, Erwin P. Werner and
Adrian C. Stanton were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
Messrs. Martin Saxe, Samuel P. Goldman, Charles R.
McSparren and William F. Unger, filed a brief as amici

curiae by special leave of court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of California to review the determination of that court

upholding the constitutionality of the Inheritance Tax
Act of the State of California enacted in 1917, particularly
Subdivision 10 of § 2 of the Act, which prescribes the

STEBBINS v; RILEY.
137

Opinion of the Court.

method of determining the market value of the property
transferred, for the purpose of fixing the amount of the
tax. Subdivision 10 of § 2 reads as follows:
"In determining the market value of the property
transferred, no deduction shall be made for any inheritance tax or estate tax paid to the Government of the
United States."
The decedent left a gross estate exceeding $1,800,000,
on which the federal Estate Tax amounted to the sum
of $128,730.08. In fixig the amount of inheritance tax
due to the State of California upon the residuary legacies, the state Tax Appraiser, acting pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 10 of § 2, did not deduct the amount
of federal Estate Tax. In consequence the total amount
of state tax assessed upon the residuary estate was $26,205.75 greater than it would have been had the federal
Estate Tax been deducted from the residuum of the estate
before fixing the amount of the state tax. The Superior
Court of San Francisco County having jurisdiction in the
premises confirmed the tax, and the Supreme Court of
California, on writ of error, held that the tax was in accordance with the laws and the constitution of California
and was not a denial of due process or equal protection
of the laws" under the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. Stebbins v. Riley,
191 Cal. 591.
It is urged here that the California Inheritance Tax
Act of 1917 is a succession tax; that the provision of the
taxing law requiring that there shall be no deduction of
the federal tax in fixing the fair value of the legacy on
which the state tax is levied is an arbitrary discrimination
bearing no relation either to the persons succeeding to
the decedent's estate or to the amount which the taxpayer takes by succession, and that it is accordingly a
taking of property without due process of law, and, because of the inequalities in the amount of the tax result-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ing from the application of the taxing statute to successions, there is a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
On the other hand, it is urged that the so-called "right"
of acquiring property by devise or descent, is not a property right but a mere privilege, the creature of state law,
and the authority which confers it may impose conditions
upon its exercise; that in consequence the State may tax
the privilege, discriminating not only between the status
of those who inherit and the amounts which they thus
acquire, but discriminating likewise between inheritances
or legacies of like amount which are transmitted from
estates of varying size, if the discrimination is based upon
or bears some reasonable relation to the size of the whole
estate transmitted on the death of the decedent. In presenting this aspect of the case, it was argued by the appellant, on the one hand, that there was a natural right
to inheritance entitled to the protection of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and by the appellee, on the other, that the legislative authority could
deny wholly the privilege of inheritance and consequently
could place unlimited burdens upon it.
There is much in judicial opinion to suggest that a State
may impose any condition it chooses on the privilege of
taking property by will or descent, or, indeed, that it may
abolish that privilege altogether, and, for this reason, that
a State is untrammeled in its power to tax the privilege.
See Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490; United States v. Perkins,
163 U. S. 625; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, at page
55; Campbell v. California,200 U. S. 87, at page 94.
But we do not find it necessary to discuss the issue thus
raised, for it has been repeatedly held by this Court that
the power of testamentary disposition and the privilege
of inheritance are subject to state taxation and state
regulation and that regulatory taxing provisions, even
though they produce inequalities in taxation, do not
effect an unconstitutional taking of property, unless, as

STEBBINS v. RILEY.
137

141

Opinion of the Court.

was said in Dane v. Jackson, 256 U. S. 589, 599, the taxing statute "results in such flagrant and palpable inequality between the burden imposed and the benefit received, as to amount to the arbitrary taking of property
without compensation-' to spoilation under the guise of
exerting the power of taxing.'" Citing Bell's Gap R. R.
v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Henderson Bridge
Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 615; Wagner v.
Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 220.
The subject matter of an inheritance taxing statute
may be either the transmission, or the exercise of the
legal power of transmission, of property by will or descent, (United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 629;
Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, 125; New York Trust
Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345), or it may be the legal privilege of taking property by devise or descent (Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Campbell v. California, 200

U. S. 87.)
Even assuming that a State does not, under the Constitution of the United States, possess unlimited power
to curtail the power of disposition of property at death
or the privilege of receiving it by way of inheritance,
there is nevertheless no constitutional guarantee of
equality of taxation. The power of the States to discriminate in fixing the amount and incidence of taxation
upon inheritances is undoubted. A State may levy a tax
upon the power to dispose of property by will, graduated
by the size of the legacy, and it may grant exemptions.
See Plummer v. Coler, supra; Keeney v. Comptroller of
N. Y., 222 U. S.525. It may discriminate between property which has not borne its full share of taxation in the
testator's lifetime and other property passing to the same
class of transferees. Watson v. State Comptroller, 254
U. S. 122. It may fix a graduated succession tax, even
though the amount of tax assessed does not vary in pro-

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

portion to the amount of the legacy received by persons
of the same class. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank, supra. It may fix a succession tax which imposes
a tax upon inheritances to brothers and sisters and not
on those to daughters-in-law and sons-in-law. Campbell
v. California,supra.
The guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
equal protection of the laws is not a guarantee of equality
of operation or application of state legislation upon all
citizens of a State. As was said in Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, supra, at page 293:
"It only prescribes that that law have the attribute
of equality of operation, and equality of operation does
not mean indiscriminate operation on persons merely as
such, but on persons according to their relations. In
some circumstances it may not tax A more than B, but if
A be of a different trade or profession than B, it may.
In other words, the State may distinguish, select
and classify objects of legislation, and necessarily this
power must have a wide range of discretion."
The taxing statute may, therefore, make a classification
for purposes of fixing the amount or incidence of the tax,
provided only that all persons subjected to such legislation within the classification aro treated with equality
and provided further that the classification itself be
rested upon some ground of difference having a fair and
-substantial relation to the object of the legislation.
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, supra; F. S.
Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia., 253 U. S. 412.
"It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes of property from any taxation at all, such as churches, libraries,
and the property of charitable institutions. It may impose different specific taxes upon different trades and professions, and may vary the rate of excise upon various
products; it may tax real estate and personal property
in a different manner; it may tax visible property only,

STEBBINS v. RILEY.
137

Opinion of the Court.

and not tax securities for payment of money; it may allow
deductions for indebtedness, or not allow them. All such
regulations, and those of like character, so long as they
proceed within reasonable limits and general usage, are
within the discretion of the state legislature, or the
people of the State in framing their Constitution."
Bell's Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, at p. 237.
It is not necessary that the basis of classification should
be deducible from the nature of the thing classified. It
is enough that the classification is reasonably founded in
the "purposes and policies of taxation." Watson v.
Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122. It is not open to objection
unless it precludes the assumption that the classification
was made in the exercise of legislative judgment and
discretion. Campbell v. California, supra.
Unquestionably the- operation of Subdivision 10 of § 2
of the California Inheritance Act of 1917 now under consideration may result in inequalities in the incidence of
taxation. The requirement that the federal Estate Tax
shall not be deducted in fixing the state Inheritance Tax
imposes a much larger proportionate tax on the succession to a residuum of a large estate than a smaller estate,
although the residuary estate and the residuary legacy
be equal in each instance.
The plaintiffs in error base their argument that this is
a denial of the equal protection of the laws on the assumption that the California Inheritance Tax must be
dealt with exclusively as a tax upon succession, and that,
since the privilege of receiving residuary legacies of like
amounts by persons of like relationship is subjected to
unequal taxation, the inequality depending upon the size
of the estate from which the legacy is received, there is an
arbitrary discrimination and a denial of the equal protection of the laws. It is true that the inheritance tax
law of California in force before the adoption of the law
of 1917 repealing it, was held by the Supreme Court of

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

California to be a succession tax. Estate of Miller, 184
Cal. 674. That statute contained no express provision
prohibiting the deduction of federal estate taxes before
fixing the state tax on legacies, and that court held,
adopting the principle of construction applied in Knowlton v. Moore, supra, that the true effect of the California
Inheritance Tax Act, being that of a tax on succession,
the federal tax must be deducted in order to determine
the amount on which the state tax should be based. It is
true, too, that the California Inheritance Tax Act of 1917
provides for a graduated tax dependent upon the size of
the legacy and discriminates between different classes of
persons receiving the legacy, provisions which are characteristic of laws levying the tax upon successions. But § 2
of that Act expressly imposes the tax " upon the transfer
of any property" of the character described in the Act,
and Subdivision 3 of § 1 of the Act provides that the
word " transfer" as used in this Act shall be "taken to
include the passing of any property or any interest
therein" in the manner provided in the Act. Subdivision
10 of § 2, which is new, in its practical operation, makes
the amount of the tax dependent to some extent upon the
amount of the decedent's estate which passes, since the
federal Estate Tax which under that provision may not
be deducted in fixing the state tax is assessed upon the
whole estate. To that extent the statute establishes a
classification based on the amount of the estate passing
under the power of disposition at the time of death, as
well as the classification, based upon the amount of the
legacy received, contained in other provisions of the
taxing law.
There are two elements in every transfer of a decedent's estate; the one is the exercise of the legal power to
transmit at death; the other is the privilege of succession. Each, as we have seen, is the subject of taxation.
The incidents which attach to each, as we have observed,

STEBBINS v. RILEY.
137 .

Opinion of the Court.

may be made the basis of classification. We can perceive
no reason why both may not be made the basis of classification in a single taxing statute, so that the amount of
tax which the legatee shall pay may be made to depend
both on the total net amount, of the decedent's estate
subject to the jurisdiction of the State and passing under
its inheritance and testamentary laws and the amount
of the legacy to which the legatee succeeds under those
laws. Such a classification is not, on its face, unreasonable. The discrimination is one which bears a substantial
relationship to the exercise of the power of disposition by
the testator. It is one of the elements in the transfer
which is made the subject of taxation. The adoption of
the discrimination does not preclude the assumption that
the legislature, in enacting the taxing statute, did not act
arbitrarily or without the exercise of judgment or discretion which rightfully belong to it, and we can find in
it no basis for holding the statute unconstitutional.
It is urged by appellants that the decision of this Court
in Knowlton v. Moore, supra, is in conflict with the conclusion here reached. We do not so read the opinion in
that case. It was there held that an act of Congress fixing
a graduated tax upon legacies was within the taxing
power of the United States. In construing that law, however, the question arose whether the progressive rate of
tax which it imposed upon legacies or distributive shares
of decedent's estate, should be measured, not separately
by the amount of each legacy or distributive share, but
by the total amount of the estate transmitted. This
Court held that inasmuch as the statute laid down no
express rule determining the question, it would adopt the
construction which produced the least inconvenience and
inequality to taxpayers, and that the tax should therefore
be measured and apportioned according to the amount
of each individual legacy rather than the amount of the
whole estate. The question was one of construction only

