BARRETT v. VAN PELT.
Counsel for Parties.

BARRETT, AS PRESIDENT OF THE ADAMS EX. PRESS COMPANY v. VAN PELT
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE. STATE

OP

NEW YORK.

No. 160.

Argued January 6, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. The first Cummins Amendment, to ยง 20 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, concerning the duty of carriers to issue receipts or
hills of lading for interstate freight and their liability for loss or
damage, provides: "That if the loss, damage, or injury complained
of was due to delay or damage while being loaded or uinloaded, or
damaged in transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of
claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition precedent
to recovery." Held that the words " carelessness or negligence"
qualify the whole clause; "damaged" should be read "damage'
and the comma after "unloaded" should be omitted. P. 87.
2. Thus read, carelessness or negligence is an element of each
case of loss, damage or injury included in the clause, and in such
case carriers are not permitted to require notice or filing of
claim as a condition precedent to recovery. P. 91.
3. In an action against an express company for damages due to
delay, the shipper, not having given notice and filed a claim, as
required by the uniform express receipt, must prove the delay
was due to the carrier's carelessness or negligence. P. 91.
205 App. Div. 332, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the New York Supreme
Court, Appellate Division, affirming a judgment for
damages based on delay of an express company in transporting and delivering a carload of eggs.
Mr. K. E. Stockton, with whom Mr. Charles TW. Stock-

ton was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Selig Edelman and Ralph Merriam for respondent. Messrs. Lamar Hardy and Louis C. White

were on the briefs.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Messrs. H. S. Marx and A. M. Hartung filed a brief as
amici curiae, by special leave of Court.
Mr. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

February 23, 1918, at Louisville, Kentucky, respondent's assignor delivered to the Adams Express Company, a
carload, consisting of 522 cases of fresh eggs, for transportation to New York City, there to be delivered to
Harold L. Brown Company. The shipment was so delivered, March 4, 1918. This action was brought to recover damages for loss in market value due to delay in
transportation. At the trial, respondent contended that
the express company was bound to make delivery of the
eggs within a reasonable time, which he claimed to be
not more than 30 hours. It was shown that the price of
eggs in New York declined between the time respondent
claimed delivery to consignee should have been made and
the time when it was made. The trial court directed a
verdict in favor of respondent. A judgment was entered
thereon. Petitioner appealed. It was affirmed by the
Appellate Division. 205 App. Div. 332. Leave to appeal
to the Court of Appeals of New York was denied. This
court granted certiorari. 263 U. S. 697.
The case involves the construction of a provision of the
Act of Congress of March 4, 1915, known as the first Cummins Amendment, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, 1197, amending
ยง 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce of February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 386, as amended by ยง 7 of the Act
of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 593, 595. Chapter 176
requires any common carrier receiving property for transportation in interstate commerce to issue a receipt or bill
of lading therefor, and makes it liable to the lawful holder
thereof for any loss, damage or injury to such property,
and contains certain provisos, the last two of which are:
"Provided further, That it shall be unlawful for any such
common carrier to provide by rule, contract, regulation,

BARRETT v. VAN PELT.
85

Opinion of the Court.

or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice of claims
than ninety days and for the filing of claims for a shorter
period than four months, and for the institution of suits
than two years: Provided, however, That if the loss, damage, or injury complained of was due to delay or damage
while being loaded or unloaded, or damaged in transit by
carelessness or negligence, then no notice of claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition precedent to
recovery." At the time of the delivery of the property for
transportation, the express company issued and delivered
a receipt or bill of lading therefor, which contained the
following: "Received from Ky. Creameries the shipment
hereinafter listed, subject to the Classification and Tariffs
in effect on the date hereof, which shipment the Company agrees to carry upon the terms and conditions of the
Uniform Express Receipt in effect on date of shipment."
Section 7 of the uniform receipt contains the following:
"Except where the loss, damage or injury complained of
is due to delay or damage while being loaded or unloaded,
or damaged in transit by carelessness or negligence, as
conditions precedent to recovery claims must be made in
writing to the originating or delivering carrier within four
months after delivery of the property or, in case of failure to make delivery, then within four months after a
reasonable time for delivery has elapsed; and suits for
loss, damage or delay shall be instituted only within two
years and one day after delivery of the property, or, in
case of failure to make delivery, then within two years and
one day after a reasonable time for delivery has elapsed."
(Official Express Classification No. 25, filed May 18, 1917.
I. C. C. A-2130.)
No claim was made or filed within four months after
the delivery of the property to the consignee. We are
required to decide whether the case is one where notice
or filing of claim may be required as a condition precedent
to recovery. If the first clause of the above quoted pro-

OCTOBER TERi, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

vision stood alone, the rule established would be clear.
But the purpose of the second clause is to except some
cases from the application of the general rule and to provide that as to them no notice of claim nor filing of claim
shall be required. The language and structure of the
second clause is so inapt and defective that it is difficult
to give it a construction that is wholly satisfactory.* The
Appellate Division held that the requirement of the receipt for the filing of claims within four months after
delivery was prohibited by law, and was without force or
effect. The court quoted from its opinion in Bell v. New
York Central Railroad, 187 App. Div. 564, 566: "It will
be noted that both the Cummins Amendment and the bill
of lading provision make a double classification of claims,
to wit, (1) those for loss due to delay or damage while
being loaded or unloaded, or damaged in transit, which
we will call transit claims; and (2) those for loss otherwise sustained, which we will call nontransit claims.
The Cummins Amendment permitted the carrier to require as a condition precedent to recovery the filing of a
nontransit claim within four months, and in such cases
to require suit to be instituted within two years. In the
case of transit claims it forbade the carrier to require the
filing of a claim as a condition precedent to recovery but
authorized a requirement that suit be instituted within
two years." Respondent supports this construction. But
we think it is not satisfactory. The language does not
require such a classification. The court suggests no rea*

See Hailey v. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 253 Fed. 569; Gillette

Safety Razor Co. v. Davis, 278 Fed. 864; Conover'v. Wabash Railway, 208 I1. App. 105; Conover v. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern
I. Co., 212 Ill. App. 29; Bell v. New York Central R. R., 187 App.
Div. 564; Henningsen Produce Co. v. American Ry. Express, 152
Minn. 209; St. Sing v. Express Co., 183 N. C. 405; Cunningham v.
Missouri Pacific R. Co., (Missouri) 219 S. W. 1003; Lissberger v.
Bush Terminal R. Co., 197 N. Y. S. 281; Allen v. Davis, (South
Carolina), 118 S. E. 614.

BARRETT v. VAN PELT.
85

Opinion of the Court.

son for such a division, and there seem to be no substantial
considerations supporting it. Apparently, no effect is
given the phrase, "by carelessness or negligence."
The petitioner contends that the word " delay" is to
be read with "while being loaded or unloaded." This
would make two classes of claims excepted from the general rule. One would include claims for loss due to delay
or damage while being loaded or unloaded. The other
would include those for damage in transit due to carelessness or negligence. But it is not apparent why
claims for loss, damage or injury due to delay in transit
should not be included in the same class as claims for
damages due to delay while being loaded or unloaded.
And no good reason is shown for the elimination of the
element of carelessness or negligence from the definition
of one class, while including it in the definition of the
other.
It must be assumed that Congress intended to make
the classification on a reasonable. basis having regard to
considerations deemed sufficient to justify exceptions to
the rule. The element of carelessness or negligence is
important. There are such differences between liability
without fault and that resulting from negligence that
Congress upon good reasons might permit carriers to require notice and filing of claim within the specified times
where the carrier is without fault, and forbid such a requirement in the cases referred to where the loss results
from the carrier's negligence. Notice and filing of claim
warns the carrier that there may be need to make investigations which otherwise might not appear to be necessary; and if notice of claim is given and filing of claim
is made within a reasonable time it serves to enable the
carrier to take timely action to discover and preserve the
evidence on which depends a determination of the merits
of the demand. As to claims for damages not due to negligence, in the absence of notice, there may be no. reason

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

for anticipating demand or to investigate to determine
the fact or extent of liability. But as to damages resulting from carelessness or negligence, it reasonably may be
thought that the carrier has such knowledge of the facts
or has such reason to expect claim for compensation to
be made against it that the carrier should not be permitted to exact such notice and filing of claim as a condition precedent to recovery. No other basis of classification seems as well supported in reason as the element of
carelessness or negligence. And that basis is substantially sustained by the language of the clause. The elimination of the final "d" in "damaged" and the omission
of the comma after "unloaded" would make the clause
read as follows: " Provided, however, That if the loss,
damage, or injury complained of was due to delay or
damage while being loaded or unloaded or damage in
transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of
claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition
precedent to recovery."
The context does not permit the use of the word "damaged" or allow any meaning to be given to it. Its
presence makes a grammatical defect and embarrasses interpretation. It seems obvious that the word "damage"
was intended. That word is in harmony with the context as well as with the probable intention of Congress.
The final "d" may be eliminated. The intention of the
law-maker constitutes the law. Stewart v. Kahn, 11
Wall. 493, 504. See Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, 380.
Being satisfied of the legislative intention, the court will
not be prevented from giving that intention effect by a
too rigid adherence to the very word and letter of the
statute. Oates v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 239, 244.
Having found that the word "damage" was intended
to be used, the court applies the rule that, "A thing which
is within the intention of the makers of a statute is as
much within the statute as if it were within the letter,

BARRETT v. VAN PELT.
85

Opinion of the Court.

and a thing which is within the letter of a statute, is not
within the statute, unless it is within the intention of the
makers." People v. 'Utica Insurance Co., 15 Johns. 358,
381; Hawaiiv. M1ankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 212.
The comma after the word " unloaded" is not entitled
to have any weight as evidence of the legislative intention as against the considerations supporting the extension of the qualifying effect of the words "by carelessness or negligence" to all claims referred to in the second
clause. "Punctuation is a minor, and not a controlling,
element in interpretation, and courts will disregard the
punctuation of a statute, or re-punctuate it, if need be,
to give effect to what otherwise appears to be its purpose
and true meaning." Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Voelker,
129 Fed. 522, 527.
We hold that the second clause must be read as above
indicated, that carelessness or negligence is an element in
each case of loss, damage or injury included therein, and
that, in such cases, carriers are not permitted to require
notice of claim or filing of claim as a condition precedent
to recovery. See Hailey v. Oregon Short Line R. Co.,
253 Fed. 569.
No notice of claim having been given and no claim
having been filed as required by the uniform express receipt, it was incumbent upon the respondent to show loss,
damage or injury due to delay by carelessness or negligence of the company. The carload of eggs was delivered
to the company at Louisville, February 23, and was delivered by the company to the consignee at New York,
March 4. It was shown that the car was taken out of
Louisville, February 23, on a train of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, and that it should have gone to Pittsburg without transfer. There was no other evidence in
respect of the intended or actual movement of the car.
There was evidence tending to show that the ordinary
time of a passenger train on the Pennsylvania Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

between Louisville and New York was 25 or 26 hours.
But there was no evidence that such shipments usually
moved, or that this shipment could have moved, on any
train making that time, or to show the time usually made
by trains upon which such shipments were or could be
moved. There was no evidence to show what was the
customary or usual time for the transportation and delivery of such shipments. The trial judge held that such
reasonable time was not more than 30 hours. We think
the evidence was not sufficient to sustain that finding or
to show what was a reasonable time for such transportation and delivery. It follows that there was nothing to
give rise to ,any inference or presumption that failure to
deliver at destination within 30 hours was due to negligence or to support a finding that there was any loss or
damage due to delay caused by carelessness or negligence
of the company. The evidence of market value of such
eggs in New York City was as follows. February twentyfifth, 53 cents per dozen; February twenty-sixth, 52 to 53
cents; March first, 36 cents; March second, 35.5 to 36
cents; March fourth, 36.5 cents. The eggs in question
were sold March 4,-some for 35 cents, some for 35.5, and
the rest for 36.5 per dozen. There was no evidence of
market value at any other time. The court directed a
verdict in favor of respondent for $3,396.26, the difference between the amount for which the eggs were sold
March 4 and their value calculated at 53 cents per dozen,
the price prevailing February 25, with interest. The date
when the eggs should have been delivered to consignee
and the market value at that time were essential to respondent's case. In the absence of either, the amount of
the loss, if any, cannot be determined. The judgment
given cannot be sustained.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

