MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.

563

Syllabus.
MAPLE FLOORING MANUFACTURERS ASSN. ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 342. Argued December 1, 2, 1924; reargued March 3, 1925.Decided June 1, 1925.
1. In a suit to enjoin a trade association under the Anti-Trust Act
in which the Government adduced, as evidence of guilty purpose,
the history of earlier combinations which this one had superseded,
held that there was no evidence of any present agreement or purpose to produce any effect on commerce other than that which
necessarily would flow from the activities of the present association, and that the only question was whether that association, as
actually conducted, had a necessary tendency to cause direct and
undue restraint of competition condemned by the Act. P. 577.
2. Each case arising under the Sherman Act must be determined upon
the particular facts disclosed by the record; and opinions of the
Court in those cases must be read and applied in the light of their
facts, with clear recognition of essential differences in that regard.
P. 579.
3. Trade associations or combinations of individuals or corporations,
which, as in this case, openly and fairly gather and disseminate
information as to the cost of their product,, the actual prices it
has brought in past transactions, stocks on hand and approximate
cost of transportation from the principal point of shipment to
points of consumption, and meet and discuss such statistics without
reaching or attempting to reach any agreement or concerted action
respecting prices, production or the restraining of competition, do
not thereby engage in an unlawful restraint of commerce. P. 582.
4. In a suit under the Anti-Trust Act to dissolve a trade association
formed by numerous manufacturers of hard-wood flooring, the
following activities were complained of: (1) Computation and distribution among the members of information as to the average
cost of their products, based (a) on cost of raw material as ascertained and averaged by the association's secretary from reports of
actual sales of rough lumber by members in open market, (b) on
manufacturing costs ascertained through questionnaires sent the
members, and (c) on percentage of waste in milling, ascertained
through test runs made by selected members under direction of

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

268 UJ. S.

the secretary; (2) compilation and distribution among them of
booklets showing freight rates from a basing point to numerous
points to which their products were shipped, enabling members
to quote delivered prices promptly; (3) gathering by periodical reports from members of information as to the quantity
and kind of flooring sold by them, dates of sales and prices received,
average freight rates, commissions paid, amount and kinds of stock
on hand, and of unfilled orders, monthly production and new orders
booked; which information, embracing only past and closed transactions and omitting names of purchasers, current prices and many
other details, was transmitted in summarized form to the members
by the secretary of the association, without, however, revealing the
identity of members in connection with specific information transmitted, and was given wide publicity through publication in trade
journals, communication to the Department of Commerce, etc.;
(4) monthly meetings at which problems of the industry were
discussed, without discussion or agreement upon prices. Held
that such activities did not constitute an unlawful restraint on
commerce. Am. Column Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.
377; United States v. Am. Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, distinguished. P. 568.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court awarding
an injunction, in a suit brought by the Government under
the Anti-Trust Act against a combination, in the form of
a trade association, of manufacturers of hardwood flooring
lumber.

Mr. Edward R. Johnston, with whom Messrs. Jacob
Newman, Conrad H. Poppenhausen,Henry L. Stern, and
Henry Jackson Darby were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. J. A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney

General, with whom the Solicitor General and Mr. C. S.
Thompson, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Herbert Pope filed a brief as amicus curiae for the
National Malleable & Steel Castings Company, by special
leave of Court.

MAPLE FLOORiNG ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

By bill in equity filed March 5, 1923, the United States
asked an injunction restraining the defendants, who are
appellants here, from violating ยง 1 of the Act of Congress
of July 2, 1890, entitled, "An Act to Protect Trade and
Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and Monopolies"
(c. 64.7, 26 Stat. 209), commonly known as the Sherman
Act.
The defendants are the Maple Flooring Manufacturers Association, an unincorporated ".trade association";
twenty-two corporate defendants, members of the Association, engaged in the business of selling and shipping
maple, beech and birch flooring in interstate 'ommerce,
all but two of them having their principal places of business in Michigan, Minnesota or Wisconsin (one defendant
being located in Illinois and one in New York); the several individual representatives of the corporate members
of the Association; and George W. Keehn, Secretary of
the Association. Of the corporate defendants, approximately one-half own timber lands and saw mills and are
producers of the rough lumber from which they manufacture finished flooring, sold and shipped in interstate
commerce. The other defendants purchase rough flooring lumber in the open market and manufacture it into
finished flooring which is sold and shipped in interstate
commerce. In .1922 there were in the States of Illinois,
Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin seventeen nonmember manufacturers of maple, beech and birch flooring
and there were fifty-eight non-member manufacturers of
maple, beech and birch flooring in the United States who
reported to the Government. In that year thirty-eight
non-member manufacturers reported a manufacturing
capacity of 238,610,000 feet of flooring of the types mentioned and during the same year the manufacturing capacity of the defendants was 158,400,000 feet. Estimates

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

submitted in behalf of the Government indicate that in
the year 1922 the defendants produced 70% of the total
production of these types of flooring, the percentage having been gradually diminished during the five years preceding, the average ior the five years being 74.2%. It
is also in evidence that aside from non-member manufacturers who reported to the Government, there are numerous other non-member manufacturers of such flooring in
the United States and Canada. The defendants own only
a small proportion of the total stand, in the United States,
of maple, beech and birch timber from which the various
types of flooring produced and sold by defendants are
manufactured.
In March, 1922, the corporate defendants organized
the defendant Maple Flooring Manufacturers Association,
but for many years prior to that time and certainly since
1913 a substantial number of the corporate defendants
have participated actively in maintaining numerous successive trade associations of the same name, which were
predecessors of the present association. The oral testimony and documentary evidence have covered a wide
range and have reached a great volume which it will be
impossible, within the limits of an opinion, to review in
detail. The defendants have engaged in many activities
to which no exception is taken by the Government and
which are admittedly beneficial to the industry and to
consumers; such as co-operative advertising and the
standardization and improvement of the product. The
activities, however, of the present Association of which
the Government complains may be summarized as
follows:
(1) The computation and distribution among the members of the association of the average cost to association
members of all dimensions and grades of flooring.
(2) The compilation and distribution among members
of a booklet showing freight rates on flooring from Cadil-

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

lac, Michigan, to between five and six thousand points of
shipment in the United States.
(3) The gathering of statistics which at frequent intervals are supplied by each member of the Association to
the Secretary of the Association giving complete information as to the quantity and kind of flooring sold and prices
received by the reporting members, and the amount of
stock on hand, which information is summarized by the
Secretary and transmitted to members without, however,
revealing the identity of the members in connection with
any specific information thus transmitted.
(4) Meetings at which the representatives of members
congregate and discuss the industry and exchange views
as to its problems.
Before considering these phases of the activities of the
Association, it should be pointed out that it is neither
alleged nor- proved that there was any agreement among
the members of the Association either affecting production, fixing prices or for price maintenance. Both by the
articles of association and in actual practice, members
have been left free to sell their product at any price they
choose and to conduct their business as they please.
Although the bill alleges that the activities of the defendants hereinbefore referred to resulted in the maintenance
of practical uniformity of net delivered prices as between
the several corporate defendants, the evidence fails to
establish such uniformity and it was not seriously urged
before this Court that any substantial uniformity in price
had in fact resulted from the activities of the Association,
although it was conceded by defendants that the dissemination of information as to cost of the product and
as to production and prices would tend to bring about
uniformity in prices through the operation of economic
law. Nor was there any direct proof that the activities
of the Association had affected prices adversely to consumers. On the contrary, the defendants offered a great
volume of evidence tending to show that the trend of

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

prices of the product of the defendants corresponded to
the law of supply and demand and that it evidenced no
abnormality when compared with the price of commodities generally. There is undisputed evidence that the
prices of members were fair and reasonable and that they
were usually lower than the prices of non-members and
there is no claim that defendants were guilty of unfair
or arbitrary trade practices.
The contention of the Government is that there is a
combination among the defendants, which is admitted;
that the effect of the activities of the defendants carried
on under the plan of the Association must necessarily be
to bring about a concerted effort on the part of members
of the Association to maintain prices at levels having a
close relation to the average cost of flooring reported to
members and that consequently there is a necessary and
inevitable restraint of interstate commerce and that therefore the plan of the Association itself is a violation of ยง 1
of the Sherman Act which should be enjoined regardless of
its actual operation and effect so far as price maintenance
is concerned. The case must turn therefore, on the effect
of the activity of the defendants in the gathering and dissemination of information as to the cost of flooring, since,
without that, the other activities complained of could
have no material bearing on price levels in the industry;
and it was to this phase of the case that the oral argument
was mainly directed.
Having outlined the substantial issues in the case, it
will now be convenient to examine more in detail the
several activities of the defendants of which the Government complains.
Computation and distribution, among the members, of
information as to the average cost of their product.
There are three principal elements which enter into the
computation of the cost of finished flooring. They are

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

the cost of raw material; manufacturing cost and the percentage of waste in converting rough lumber into flooring.
The information as to the cost of rough lumber was procured by the Secretary from reports of actual sales of
lumber by members in the open market. From five to
ten ascertained sales were taken as standard and the
average was taken as the estimated cost of raw material.
Manufacturing costs were ascertained by questionaires
sent out to members by which members were requested
to give information as to labor costs, cost of warehousing,
insurance and taxes, interest at 6% on the value of
the plant, selling expense, including commissions and cost
of advertising, and depreciation of plant. From the total
thus ascertained there was deducted the net profit from
wood and other by-products. The net total cost thus
ascertained of all members reporting was then averaged.
The percentage of waste in converting the rough lumber
into flooring was ascertained by test runs made by selected
members of the Association under the direction of the
Secretary of the Association, in the course of which a
given amount of rough lumber was converted into flooring
of different sizes and the actual waste in the process
ascertained and stated in terms of percentage. By combining the three elements of cost thus arrived at, the total
cost per thousand feet of the aggregate of the different
types and grades of flooring produced from a given
amount of rough lumber was estimated. To this cost
there was at one time added an estimated 5% for contingencies, which practice, however, was discontinued by
resolution of the Association of July 19, 1923. For the
element of manufacturing and marketing cost, the first
of these estimates prepared in the manner described was
based upon an average of such cost for the first half of
1921. Other successive estimates were prepared on a
like basis during the first, third and fourth quarter of the
year 1922.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

In order to determine the cost of a given type or grade
of flooring, it was necessary to distribute the total cost of
the aggregate of the different types and grades of finished
flooring produced from a given amount of rough lumber
among the several types and grades thus produced. This
distribution was made by the officials of the Association
and the estimated cost thus determined was tabulated
and distributed among the- members of the Association.
There is no substantial claim made on the part of the
Government that the preparation of these estimates of
cost was not made with all practicable accuracy or that
they were in any respect not what they purported to be,
an estimate of the actual cost of commercial grades of
finished flooring fairly ascertained from the actual experience of members of the Association, except that the
point is made by the Government that the distribution of
cost among the several types and grades of finished flooring produced from a given amount of rough lumber was
necessarily arbitrary and that it might be or become a
cover for price fixing. Suffice it to say that neither the
Government nor the defendants seem to have found it
necessary to prove upon what principle of cost accounting
this distribution of cost was made and there are no data
from which any inference can be drawn as to whether or
not it conformed to accepted practices of cost accounting
applied to the manufacture of a diversified product from
a single type of raw material.
The compilation and distribution among members of
information as to freight rates.
Through the agency of the Secretary of the Association
a booklet was compiled and distributed to members of the
Association showing freight rates from Cadillac, Michigan,
to numerous-points throughout the United States to
which the finished flooring is shipped by members of the

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

Association. It appears from the evidence to have been
the usual practice in the maple flooring trade, to quote
flooring at a delivered price and that purchasers of flooring usually will not buy on any other basis. The evidence, however, is undisputed that the defendants quote
and sell on an f. o. b. mill basis whenever a purchaser so
requests. It also appears that the mills of most of the
members of the Association are located in small towns in
Michigan and Wisconsin and that the average freight rates
from these principal producing points in Michigan and
Wisconsin to the principal centers of consumption in the
United States are approximately the same as the freight
rate from Cadillac, Michigan, to the same centers of consumption. There is abundant evidence that there were
delays in securing quotations of freight rates from the
local agents of carriers in towns in which the factories of
defendants are located, which seriously interfered with
prompt quotations of delivered prices to customers; that
the actual aggregate difference between local freight rates
for most of defendants' mills and the rate appearing in
defendant's freight-rate book based on rates at Cadillac,
Michigan, were so small as to be only nominal, and that.
the freight-rate book served a useful and legitimate purpose in enabling members to quote promptly a delivered
price on their product by adding to their mill price
a previously calculated freight rate which approximated closely to the actual rate from their own mill
towns.
The Government bases its criticism of the use of the
freight-rate book upon the fact that antecedent associations, maintained by defendants, incorporated in the
freight-rate book a delivered price which was ndade up by
adding the calculated freight rate from Cadillac, Michigan,
to a minimum price under the so-called "minimum price
plan" of previous associations, whereby the price was
fixed at cost plus ten per cent. of profit. It is conceded

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

that the present Association does not include a delivered
price in the freight-rate book, but it is urged by the Government that the circulation of the tables of estimated
cost of flooring, together with a freight-rate book, enables
members of the Association to fix .a delivered price by
adding to the estimated cost circulated among members,
the calculated freight rate published in the freight-rate
book, and that the freight-rate book used in conjunction
with the published material as to estimated cost is merely
a device whereby the defendants have continued the socalled minimum price plan formerly maintained by predecessor associations, which was a plan whereby the members
co-operated in the maintenance of a fixed minimum price.
Defendants maintain that the minimum price plan was
never actually carried out by any predecessor association
and that it was formally abandoned in February or March,
1920, after the failure to secure the approval of the plan
by the Federal Trade Commission, and was never revived
or continued.
It cannot, we think, be questioned that data as to the
average cost of flooring circulated among the members of
the Association when combined with a calculated freight
rate which is either exactly or approximately the freight
rate from the point of shipment, plus an arbitrary percentage of profit, could be made the basis for fixing prices
or for an agreement for price maintenance, which, if
found to exist, would under the decisions of this Court,
constitute a violation of the Sherman Act. But, as we
have already said, the record is barren of evidence that
the published list of costs and the freight-rate book have
been so used by the present Association. Consequently,
the question which this Court must decide is whether the
use of this material by members of the Association will
necessarily have that effect so as to produce that unreasonable restraint of interstate commerce which is condemned
by the Sherman Act.

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

The gathering and distributing among members of trade
statistics.
It is contended by the Government that an analysis of
the reporting system adopted by the defendants shows
that there is no information withheld by one member
from another, and that every member is perfectly familiar
not only with the summaries which show the exact market
condition generally, but also with the exact condition of
the business of each of his fellow members. An examination of the record discloses that this is not an accurate
statement of the statistical information distributed among
members of the Association, certainly not within any
recent period of the history of the successive associations.
At the time of the filing of the bill, members reported
weekly-to the Secretary of the Association on forms showing dates of sales made by the reporting member, the
quantity, the thickness and face, the grade, the kind of
wood, the delivery, the prices at which sold, the average
freight rate to destination and the rate of commission
paid, if any. Members also reported monthly the amount
of flooring on hand of each dimension and grade and the
amount of unfilled orders. Monthly reports were Also required showing the amount of production for each period
and the new orders booked for each variety of flooring.
The Association promptly reported back to the members
statistics compiled from the reports of members including
the identifying numbers of the mills making the reports,
and information as to quantities, grades, prices, freight
rates, etc., with respect to each sale. The names of purchasers were not reported and from and after July 19,
1923, the identifying number of the mill making the report was omitted. All reports of sales and prices dealt
exclusively with past and closed transactions. The
statistics gathered by the defendant Association are given
wide publicity. They are published in trade journals

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

which are read by from 90 to 95% of the persons who purchase the products of Association members. They are sent
to the Department of Commerce which publishes a
monthly survey of current business. They are forwarded
to the Federal Reserve and other banks and are available
to anyone at any time desiring to use them. It is to be
noted that the statistics gathered and disseminated do not
include current price quotations; information as to employment conditions; geographical distribution of shipments; the names of customers or distribution by classes
of purchasers; the details with respect to new orders
booked, such as names of customers, geographical origin
of orders; or details with respect to unfilled orders, such
as names of customers, their geographical location; the
names of members having surplus stocks on hand; the
amount of rough lumber on hand; or information as to
cancellation of orders. Nor do they differ in any essential
respect from trade or business statistics which are freely
gathered and publicly disseminated in numerous branches
of industry producing a standardized product such as
grain, cotton, coal oil, and involving interstate commerce,
whose statistics disclose volume and material elements
affecting costs of production, saies price and stock on
hand.
Association Meetings.
The Articles of the defendant Association provide for
regular meetings for the transaction of business on the
third Wednesday of April, July and October of each year,
and that special meetings may be called by the President
or a majority of the Board of Trustees. During the year
in which the bill of complaint was filed meetings appear
to have been held monthly. Minutes of meetings were
kept, although it is not contended that they constituted
a complete record of the proceedings. Trade conditions
generally, as reflected by the statistical information dis-

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

seminated among members, were discussed; the market
prices of rough maple flooring were also discussed, as were
also manufacturing and market conditions. Those members who did not produce rough flooring lumber improved
the occasion of the monthly meetings to secure purchases
of this commodity from other members. The testimony
is explicit and not denied that, following the decision in
United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371,
(June, 1923) there was no discussion of prices in meetings. There was no occasion to discuss past prices, as
those were fully detailed in the statistical reports, and the
Association was advised by counsel that future prices were
not a proper subject of discussion. It was admitted by
several witnesses, however, that upon occasion the trend
of prices and future prices became the subject of discussion outside the meeting among individual representatives of the defendants attending the meeting. The
Government, however, does not charge, nor is it contended, that there was any understanding or agreement,
either express or fplied, at the meetings or elsewhere,
with respect to prices.
Upon this state of the record, the District Court, from
whose decision this appeal was taken, held that the plan
or system operated by the defendants had a direct and
necessary tendency to destroy competition; that the
methods employed by them had at all times a controlling
influence to impeding the economic laws of supply and
demand, and tending to increase prices, and to stifle competition; that the plan of the Association was therefore
inherently illegal; that in consequence the actual results
flowing from such a plan and the execution of it are of
secondary importance. The court accordingly decreed
the dissolution of the defendants' association and enjoined
them from engaging in activities complained of by the
Government. In arriving at this result it was admitted
that it was impossible to measure, either accurately or

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

even approximately, the effect of the activities of the
defendants upon prices, production and competition in
the flooring industry, for the reason that there could be,
in the nature of things, no satisfactory standards of comparison. The court found no agreement to fix prices and
that in fact lower prices have usually been quoted by
members than by non-members of the Association. In
reaching its conclusion, the court relied principally upon
the necessary tendency or effect of the plan actually in
operation and upon the past history of the Association
and its predecessors as indicating a probable purpose on
the part of the members of the Association to use the plan
as a medium for effecting actual and undue restraint on
interstate commerce, and it is urged here that the history
of the successive Associations organized by the members
of the defendant Association, or a majority of them,
establishes a systematic purpose on the part of the corporate defendants to restrain interstate commerce.
It is pointed out that the Articles of the Association
of January 1, 1913, embodied the so-called "allotment
plan," which provided for an allotted percentage of the
aggregate shipments of all members within a given period,
to each member, with a provision for payment of a bonus
or allowance to each member which did not make its full
allotment or percentage of shipments. This plan was
abandoned in March, 1920. On July 1, 1916, the Articles
of Association of that date adopted a minimum price plan
which it is claimed continued in effect until about January
1, 1921. This plan contemplated the establishment of a
minimum price of maple, beech and birch flooring by
members of the Association, such prices to consist of the
average cost and expense of manufacturing and selling
the product, plus an average profit of ten per cent. The
plan provided drastic penalties for the sale of flooring at
less than the minimum price so established. It is also
charged that on January, 1921, the defendants, by agree-

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

ment, established a minimum price basis for the sale of
flooring for the ensuing year. Under this plan the average net profit was reduced from ten to five per cent. and
penalties for non-compliance with the minimum price
scale were abolished.
It is conceded, however, that each of these several plans
was abandoned and that the present Association, both by
the terms of its Articles of Association and in actual practice, has confined itself to the activities which have
already been described in some detail.
We think it might be urged, on the basis of this record,
that the defendants, by their course of conduct, instead of
evidencing the purpose of persistent violators of law, had
steadily indicated a purpose to keep within the boundaries
of legality as rapidly as those boundaries were marked out
by the decisions of courts interpreting the Sherman Act.
Whether, however, their general purpose was to become
law-abiding members of the community or law breakers,
it is not, we think, very material unless the court either
can infer from this course of conduct a specific and continuing purpose or agreement or understanding on their
part to do acts tending to effect an actual restraint of commerce (United States v. United States Steel Corp'n, 251
U. S. 417), or unless, on the other hand, it is established
that the combination entered into by the defendants in
the organization of the defendant Association, and its
activities as now carried on, must necessarily result in
such restraint. As already indicated, the record is barren
of evidence tending to establish that there is any agreement or purpose or intention on the part of defendants
to produce any effect upon commerce other than which
would necessarily flow from the activities of the present
Association, and in our view the Government must stand
or fall upon its ability to bring the facts of the present
case within the rule as laid down in American Column Co.

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, where it was said, at
p. 400:
"It has been repeatedly held by this Court that the
purpose of the statute is to maintain free competition in
interstate commerce and that any concerted action of men
or corporations to cause, or which in fact does cause, direct
and undue restraint of competition in such commerce falls
within the condemnation of the Act and is unlawful ";
and within the rule laid down by the Court in United
States v. American Linseed Oil Company, 262 U. S. 371, at
p. 390:
"In the absence of a purpose to monopolize or the compulsion that results from contract or agreement, the individual certainly may exercise great freedom; but concerted action through combination presents a wholly
different problem and is forbidden when the necessary
tendency is to destroy the kind of competition to which
the public has long looked for protection."
It should be noted that the bill of complaint neither
charges nor does the Government urge, that there was
any purpose on the part of the defendants to monopolize
commerce in maple, beech and birch flooring. It is not
contended that there was the compulsion of any agreement fixing prices, restraining production or competition or otherwise restraining interstate commerce. In our
view, therefore, the sole question presented by this record
for our consideration is whether the combination of the
defendants in their existing Association, as actually conducted by them, has a necessary tendency to cause direct
and undue restraint of competition in commerce falling
within the condemnation of the Act. In urging that such
is the necessary effect, the Government relies mainly upon
the decisions of this Court in Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600;
American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, supra,
and United States v. American Linseed Oil Company,
supra.

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

It should be said at the outset, that in considering the
application of the rule of decision in these cases to the
situation presented by this record, it should be remembered that this Court has often announced that each case
arising under the Sherman Act must be determined upon
the particular facts disclosed by the record, and that the
opinions in those cases must be read in the light of their
facts and of a clear recognition of the essential differences
in the facts of those cases, and in the facts of any new
case to which the rule of earlier decisions is to be applied.
In EasternStates Retail Lumber DealersAssociation v.
United States, supra, the defendant members of the Association had entered into a combination and agreement
whereby members were required to report to the Association the names of wholesale dealers in lumber who sold
their product directly to consumers. The names of the
offending wholesalers were placed upon a "black list"
which was circulated among the members of the Association. The name of a blacklisted wholesaler could be removed from the list only on application to the secretary
of the Association and on assurance that the offending
wholesaler would no longer sell in competition with retailers. It was conceded by the defendants, and the court
below found, that the circulation of this information
would have a natural tendency to cause retailers receiving
these reports to withhold patronage from listed concerns;
that it therefore, necessarily, tended to restrain wholesalers from selling to the retail trade, which in itself was
an undue and unreasonable restraint of commerce. Moreover, the court said, at p. 612:
"This record abounds in instances where the offending
dealer was thus reported, the hoped for effect, unless he
discontinued the offending practice, realized, and his trade
directly and appreciably impaired."
There was thus presented a case in which the court could.
not only see that the combination would necessarily re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

26S U. S.

sult in a restraint on commerce which was unreasonable,
but where in fact such restraints had actually been effected
by the concerted action of the defendants.
In American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States,
supra, the defendant association adopted a plan for the
gathering from its members daily and disseminating
among them weekly, reports of all sales and shipments
actually made, giving prices, names and addresses of
purchasers, the kind, grade and quantity of commodity
sold and shipped. Its plan provided for a monthly production report giving production of members during the
previous month; a monthly stock report showing stock
on hand on the first day of the month; current price
lists, followed by prompt information as to new price
quotations as made. Monthly meetings were held at
which the extensive interchange of reports was supplemented by further exchange of informtion as to production, at which active and concerted efforts were
made to suppress competition by the restriction of production. The secretary of the Association, in communications to members, actively urged curtailment of
production and increase of prices. The record disclosed a
systematic effort, participated in by the members of the
Association and led and directed by the secretary of the
Association, to cut down production and increase prices.
The court not only held that this concerted effort was in
itself unlawful, but that it resulted in an actual excessive
increase of price to which the court found the "united
action of this large and influential membership of dealers
contributed greatly." The opinion of the court in that
case rests squarely on the ground that there was a combination on the part of the members to secure concerted
action in curtailment of production and increase of price,
which actually resulted in a restraint of commerce, producing increase of price.
In United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., supra,
defendants entered into an agreement, with provisions

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

for financial forfeitures in event of its violation, for the
organization and maintenance of an exchange or bureau
whose function it was to gather and distribute information among the members, as to all price lists covering
the product of members. Members agreed, under heavy
penalties for violation, to furnish to the Bureau a
"schedule of prices and terms and adhere thereto-uiless
more onerous ones were obtained-until prepared to give
immediate notice of departure therefrom for relay by the
Bureau to members." Members were required by the
agreement to report by telegraph all variations of prices;
the names of prospective buyers; the point of shipment;
the exact prices, terms and discounts; whether sales were
made to jobber, or dealer or consumer; in what quantity;
and to report also by telegraph all orders received; to
report daily all carload sales of product, giving full details;
all such information being treated as confidential and
concealed from the buyers. All information received was
made available to members through the statistical surveys
of the Bureau. It was provided that any subscriber who
had offered his product to a prospective buyer who did
not purchase, should have the right to advise the Bureau
of the unsuccessful offer and to request th Bureau to
"bulletin" all its subscribers, asking specific information
regarding any quotations for sale to such prospective
buyer, and to make to subscribers a compilation report of
the information secured by such "bulletin." Members
were required to give the desired information. Each subscriber was required to furnish the Bureau, upon request,
information pertaining to any buyer of the product and
might request the Bureau to secure like information from
all other subscribers "whenever it shall have an order or
account with or inquiry from the buyer". The plan as
organized, was actively carried out by the defendants and
the court held that the plan as operated by the defendants
was a violation of the Sherman Act in that "its necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tendency was to suppress competition in interstate commerce." It was held that the agreement for price maintenance accompanied by free exchange of information
between competitors as to current prices of the product
offered for sale; full details as to purchasers, actual and
prospective; and the exchange of information as to buyers
and those to whom offerings were made by sellers and of
the terms of such offerings, could necessarily have only
one purpose and effect, namely to restrain competition
among sellers. The court said, at p. 389:
"If, looking at the entire contract by which they are
bound together, in the light of what has been done under
it the Court can see that its necessary tendency is to suppress competition in trade between the States, the combination must be declared unlawful. That such is its
tendency, we think, must be affirmed."
It is not, we think, open to question that the dissemination of pertinent information concerning any trade or
business tends to stabilize that trade or business and to
produce uniformity of price and trade practice. Exchange
of price quotations of market commodities tends to produce uniformity of prices in the markets of the world.
Knowledge of the supplies of available merchandise tends
to prevent over-production and to avoid the economic disturbances produced by business crises resulting from overproduction. But the natural effect of the acquisition of
wider and more scientific knowledge of business conditions, on the minds of the individuals engaged in commerce, and its consequent effect in stabilizing production
and price, can hardly be deemed a restraint of commerce
or if so it cannot, we think, be said to be an unreasonable
restraint, or in any respect unlawful.
It is the consensus of opinion of economists and of many
of the most important agencies of Government that the
public interest is served by the gathering and dissemination, in the widest possible manner, of information with

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

respect to the production and distribution, cost and prices
in actual sales, of market commodities, because the making
available of such information tends to, stabilize trade and
industry, to produce fairer price levels and to avoid the
waste which inevitably attends the unintelligent conduct
of economic enterprise. Free competition means a free
and open market among both buyers and sellers for the
sale and distribution of commodities. Competition does
not become less free merely because the conduct of commercial operations becomes more intelligent through the
free distribution of knowledge of all the essential factors
entering into the commercial transaction.'
General
knowledge that there is an accumulation of surplus of any
market commodity would undoubtedly tend to diminish
production, but the dissemination of that information
cannot in itself be said to be restraint upon commerce in
any legal sense. The manufacturer is free to produce, but
prudence and business foresight based on that knowledge
influence free choice in favor of more limited production.
Restraint upon free competition begins when improper
use is made of that information through any concerted
action which operates to restrain the freedom of action of
those who buy and sell.
It was not the purpose or the intent of the Sherman
Anti-Trust Law to inhibit the intelligent conduct of business operations, nor do we conceive that its purpose was to
suppress such influences as might affect the operations of
interstate commerce through the application to them of
the individual intelligence of those engaged in commerce,
enlightened by accurate information as to the essential
elements of the economics of a trade or business, however
I See a suggestive analysis of the Competitive System by various
Economists collected and commented on in Marshall's Readings on
Industrial Society, 294, 419, 479, 498, 935. See Hobson The Evolution
of Modern Capitalism, 403, 5; Elementary Principles of Economics,
Irving Fisher, 427, et seq.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

gathered or disseminated. Persons who unite in gathering and disseminating information in trade journals and
statistical reports on industry; who, gather and publish
statistics as to the amount of production of commodities in
interstate commerce, and who report market prices, are
not engaged in unlawful conspiracies in restraint of trade
merely because the ultimate result of their efforts may be
to stabilize prices .orlimit production through a better
understanding of economic laws and a more general ability
to conform to.them, for the simple reason that th~e Sherman Law neither repeals economic laws nor prohibits the
gathering and dissemination of information. Sellers of
any commodity who guide the daily conduct of their
business on the basis of market reports would hardly be
deemed to be conspirators engaged in restraint of interstate commerce. They would not be any the more so
merely because they became stockholders in a corporation
or joint owners of a trade journal, engaged in the business
of compiling and publishing such reports.
We do not conceive that the members of trade associations become such conspirators merely because they gather
and disseminate information, such as is here complained
of, bearing on the business in which they are engaged and
make use of it in the management and control of their
individual businesses; nor do we think that the proper
application of the principles of decision of Eastern States
Retail Lumber Association v. United States or American
Column & Lumber Co. v. United States or United States
v. American Linseed Oil Company leads to any such result. The court held that the defendants in those cases
were engaged in conspiracies against interstate trade and
commerce because it was found that the character of the
information which had been gathered and the use which
was made of it led irresistibly to the conclusion that they
had resulted, or would necessarily result, in a concerted
effort of the defendants to curtail production or raise

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

Opinion of the Court.

prices of commodities shipped in interstate commerce.
The unlawfulness of the combination arose not from the
fact that the defendants had effected a combination to
gather and disseminate information, but from the fact that
the court inferred from the peculiar circumstances of each
case that concerted action had resulted, or would necessarily result, in tending arbitrarily tc&lessen production or
increase prices.
Viewed in this light, can it be said in the present case,
that the character of the information gathered by the defendants, or the use which is being made of it, leads to
any necessary inference that the defendants either have
made or will make any different or other use of it than
would normally be made if like statistics were published
in a trade journal or were published by the Department
of Commerce, to which all the gathered statistics are made
available? The cost of production, prompt information
as to the cost of transportation, are legitimate subjects
of enquiry and knowledge in any industry. So likewise
is the production of the commodity in that industry,
the aggregate surplus stock, and the prices at which the
commodity has actually been sold in the usual course of
business.
We realize that such information, gathered and disseminated among the members of a trade or business,
may be the basis of agreement or concerted action to lessen
production arbitrarily or to raise prices beyond the levels
of production and price which would prevail if no such
agreement or concerted action ensued and those engaged
in commerce were left free to base individual initiative on
full information of the essential elements of their business.
Such concerted action constitutes a restraint of commerce
and is illegal and may be enjoined, as may any other combination or activity necessarily resulting in such concerted
action as was the subject of consideration in American
Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, supra and United

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
TAr, C. J., and SANFORD, J., dissenting.

268 U. S.

States v. American Linseed Oil Co., supra. But in the
absence of proof of such agreement or concerted action
having been actually reached or actually attempted, under
the present plan of operation of defendants we can find no
basis in the gathering and dissemination of such information by them or in their activities under their present
organization for the inference that such concerted action
will necessarily result within the rule laid down in those
cases.
We decide only that trade associations or combinations
of persons or corporations which openly and fairly
gather and disseminate information as to the cost of their
product, the volume of production, the actual price which
the product has brought in past transactions, stocks of
merchandise on hand, approximate cost of transportation
from the principal point of shipment to the points of consumption, as did these defendants, and who, as they did,
meet and discuss such information and statistics without
however reaching or attempting to reach any agreement
or any concerted action with respect to prices or production or restraining competition, do not thereby engage in
unlawful restraint of commerce.
The decree.of the District Court is reversed.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent from the opinions of the majority of the Court in
these two cases 1 on the ground that in their judgment
the evidence in each case brings it substantially within the
rules stated in the American Column Co. and American
Linseed Oil Co. Cases, the authority of which, as they
understand, is not questioned in the opinions of the
majority of the Court.
IThe present case and the one next following.

MAPLE FLOORING ASSN. v. U. S.
563

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

The separate opinion of MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS.
These causes I disclose carefully developed plans to cut
down normal competition in interstate trade and commerce. Long impelled by this purpose, appellants have
adopted various expedients through which they evidently
hoped to defeat the policy of the law without subjecting
themselves to punishment.
They are parties to definite and unusual combinations
and agreements, whereby each is obligated to reveal to
confederates the intimate details of his business and is
restricted in his freedom of action. It seems to me that
ordinary knowledge of human nature and of the impelling
force of greed ought to permit no serious doubt concerning
the ultimate outcome of the arrangements. We may confidently expect the destruction of that kind of competition
long relied upon by the public for establishment of fair
prices, and to preserve which the Anti-trust Act was
passed.
United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S.
371, states the doctrine which I think should be rigorously
applied. Pious protestations and smug preambles but
intensify distrust when men are found busy with schemes
to enrich themselves through circumventions. And the
Government ought not to be required supinely to await
the final destruction of competitive conditions before demanding relief through the courts. The statute supplies
means for prevention. Artful gestures should not hinder
their application.
I think the courts below reached right conclusions and
their decrees should be affirmed.
'The present case and the one next following.

