394

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

429.

268 U. S.

"The functions of the commissioner And the court

in removal proceedings under ยง 1014 are of like character
and exercised with like effect." Morse v. United States,
267 U. S. 80. The utmost that can be said is that
the decision of a commissioner favorable to the accused

is persuasive and may be sufficient to justify like action upon a second application; but it is not controlling.
Undoubtedly, care should be exercised by the magistrate to whom a subsequent application for rerhoval is
made to see that the accused is not oppressed by repeated and unwarranted petitions for removal. United
States v. Haas, 167 Fed. Rep. 211, 212; and see, generally,
Salinger v. LoiseI, 265 U. S. 224, 230-232. There is

nothing to suggest that the judge to whom the second
application was made here will fail in that respect.
Judgments affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ROYER.
APPEAL FROM TIE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 359.

Argued April 30, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. To constitute an officer de facto, it is not essential that there shall
have been an attempted exercise of competent or prima facie power
of appointment. P. 396.
2. The facts that the commanding general recommended an officer's
promotion and notified him of his subsequent appointment, and
that the officer accepted the office and performed its duties by
direction of his superiors, are evidence that a vacancy in that rank
existed. P. 397.
3. Claimant, having been recommended by the commanding general
during the war for promotion from the office of lieutenant to that
of major, and having assumed that rank by direction of the general based on notice from the adjutant general's office that the appointment had been made, and having performed his duties and
received his pay as major, was a major de facto, although the actual
appointment was to a captaincy; and he could not be required

UNITED STATES v. ROYER.
594

Opinion of the Court.

thereafter to refund the amount received in excess of captain's pay.
P. 397.
59 Ct. Cls. 199, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims allowing recovery of an amount deducted from the pay of an
army officer.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General and Mr. Randolph S. Collins were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Messrs. William B.
King and George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On August 5, 1918, General Pershing, commanding the
American Expeditionary Forces, recommended by cable to
the Chief of Staff the appointment of respondent, then
first lieutenant, as major in the Medical Reserve Corps.
The Surgeon General of the Army, to whom the recommendation was referred, recommended an approval of the
appointment of respondent as captain and this was ratified by the Secretary of War. On September 23, 1918, the
Adjutant General cabled General Pershing that the appointment as major had been made, and five days later the
Surgeon General's office in France notified the respondent
that he had been commissioned as major and requested
him to submit his letter of acceptance and oath of office
without delay. Respondent submitted a letter of acceptance and executed an oath of office on October 18, 1918,
and thereupon assumed the insignia of rank of major,
performed the duties appropriate to that office and was so
officially addressed. In fact, respondent had been appointed captain and not major; but subsequently, on February 17, 1919, he was promoted to the rank of major.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

He was not informed until February 19, 1919, that there
had been a mistake in the first notice of his appointment
as major. He was paid by the pay officers as major during
his entire service from October 18, 1918, to the date of
his discharge on August 31, 1919. On the latter date
there was deducted from his pay, as an overpayment, the
sum of $240.19, being the difference between the pay of a
captain and that of a major from October 18, 1918, to
February 16, 1919. This suit was to recover that amount.
The court below, upon the foregoing facts, gave judgment
for respondent upon the ground that "having been ordered by competent authority to assume the rank of
major, and having discharged the duties of that rank in
good faith in time of war, and having been paid the
emoluments of that rank in good faith by the officers who
are intrusted with the duty of making such payments, he
cannot be required to return the money so received to the
Government." 59 Ct. Cls. 199.
The Adjutant General, from the nature of his office, is
the appropriate channel through which information in
respect of appointments and promotions is transmitted.
U. S. Army Regulations, 1913, p. 14, paragraph 21; Dig.
Op. Judge Advocate General, 1912, pp. 87-88. That officer having informed General Pershing that the appointment of respondent as major had been made, General
Pershing was warranted in giving notice to respondent
that he had been so appointed, and respondent was justified in accepting and acting upon it. Indeed in time of
war and in the field of actual military operations it was
his duty to do so. Was respondent, under these circumstances, a major de facto? The Government contends not
upon the grounds: (1) there was no attempt to appoint
him to the office of major by any officer possessing the
power of appointment; (2) there is no proof that there
was a vacancy in the office of major. Neither ground is
tenable.

UNITED STATES v. ROYER.
394

Opinion of the Court.

1. While some general expressions will be found in the
decisions tending to support the Government's contention,
the rule is well established that to constitute an officer de
facto it is not a necessary prerequisite that there shall
have been an attempted exercise of competent or prima
fade power of appointment or election. The leading case
is State v. Carroll, 38 Conn. 449, 456-466, 472, where the
English and American cases are fully reviewed; In re Ah
Lee, 5 Fed. Rep. 899, 907 et seq.; Heard v. Elliot, 116
Tenn. 150, 154. A good general definition is to be found
in Waite v. City of Santa Cruz, 89 Fed. Rep. 619, 627,
expressly approved by this Court in Waite v. Santa Cruz,
184 U. S. 302, 323: "A de facto officer may be defined as
one whose title is not good in law, but who is in fact in
the unobstructed possession of an office and discharging its
duties in full view of the public, in such manner and under
such circumstances as not to present the appearance of
being an intruder or usurper." A shorter definition is that
of the Supreme Court of Kansas, in Jay v. Board of Education, 46 Kan. 525, 527: "A de facto officer is one who
is surrounded with the insignia of office, and seems to act
with authority." Here, respondent occupied the office
and discharged its duties in good faith and with every
appearance of acting with authority; and, upon the facts
heretofore recited, since he was not a mere intruder or
usurper, he must be regarded as an officer de facto, within
the spirit of the general current of authority.
2. Of courise, there can be no incumbent de facto of an
office if there be no office to fill. Norton v. Shelby
County, 118 U. S. 425, 441. But the contention that
there is no evidence of a vacancy in the office of major
in the present case cannot be seriously considered.
Everything was done upon the theory that there was
such a vacancy; the Commanding General evidently determined that there was; and respondent entered upon
and actually performed the duties of that office by direc-

