552

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

SECOND RUSSIAN INSURANCE COMPANY v.
MILLER, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET
AL.
APPEAL FROM TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 362. Argued April 30, May 1, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.
After promulgation, in the earlier years of the World War, of a
Russian ukase forbidding, under penalties, all Russian subjects to
enter into any agreement or commercial relations with citizens of
enemy countries and proclaiming all contracts with enemy firms at
an end, an arrangement was made between a Russian insurance
corporation, a German firm of Hamburg, which was its general
agent for reinsurance business including that originating in this
country, and a New York corporation, which was the German
firm's sub-agent here and shared the commissions on the American
business, whereby, in form, the New York corporation was substituted as general agent and entitled to the full commissions on
the net premiums it collected. Thereafter, and before the United
States entered the war, the American agent collected premiums on
old business, but, instead of appropriating the full commissions to
which it was thus nominally entitled, retained only the percentage
which it would have had under the old arrangement and deposited
the rest in a special account in its name. Later, it turned over the
fund to the insurance company's trustee under the New York law.
The fund was seized by the Alien Property Custodian as belonging
to the German firm. Two courts below having found from the
evidence that the change of agency was colorable only, made to
evade the ukase, and that the deposit was intended by all parties
for the German enemies, Held, adopting that finding,
(1) That the agreement by which the commissions were set apart
for the German firm was valid by the law of the United States, as
it was also proven to be by the law of Germany. P. 558.
(2) That the insurance company, having consented that the German
firm should have the commissions and they having been actually
set apart accordingly, retained no legal interest entitling it to
reclaim them from the Alien Property Custodian. P. 559.
(3) Semble that comity does not require that extraterritorial effect
be given to the Russian ukase so as to make illegal, transactions
had in the United States between the insurance company and the

SECOND RUSSIAN INS. CO. v. MILLER.
-552

553

Opinion of the Court.

New York corporation respecting their dealings with the German
firm. P. 559.
(4) Assuming that the payment was forbidden by the ukase, no
principle of comity would entitle the Russian company to recover
it back; the rule denying relief when both parties to an illegal
executed contract are in pari delicto, would apply. P. 561.
(5) A right to a fund in the hands of a depositary is not divested
by the act of the latter in merely turning it over without consideration to a trustee holding other funds and securities for an adverse
claimant. P. 562.
297 Fed. 404, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
the appellant's bill, brought under the Trading with the
Enemy Act to recover money seized by the Alien Property
Custodian, and held by the Treasurer of the United
States, as the property of a German firm.

Mr. Albert P. Massey, for appellant.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom the Solicitor General
was on the briefs, .for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appeal from a judgment of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirming a judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, dismissing a bill in equity brought
by the appellant, complainant- below, under ยง 9 of the
Trading with the Enemy Act (Act of October 6, 1917, 40
Stat. 419) to recover money seized and held by the Alien
Property Custodian. 297 Fed. 404.
The appellant, a Russian corporation, in 1913 established an office in the State of New York for the conduct
of an American reinsurance business in that State. In
order to comply with the law of the State and to qualify
it to do business there, appellant deposited with the New
York Life Insurance & Trust Co., as trustee under a trust

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

deed, money and securities subject to the provisions of
the New York Insurance Law and appointed Meinel &
Wemple, Inc., a New York corporation (referred to as
Meinel in this opinion) its statutory agent and attorney
in fact in New York. In January, 1919, the Alien Property Custodian served upon the New York Life Insurance
& Trust Co. and Meinel a demand that they pay over to
him money in a specified amount held by them for the
account and benefit of H. Mutzenbecher, Jr., a co-partnership of Hamburg, Germany, alien enemies not holding a
license granted by the President under the Trading with
the Enemy Act. The money was paid to the Alien Property Custodian pursuant to the demand and now constitutes the subject matter of this suit. The Mutzenbecher
firm filed an answer making claim to the money seized as
commissions earned by them under an agency contract
with appellant and praying that it be decreed to be their
property and be retained by the Alien Property Custodian
in accordance with the provisions of the Trading with the
Enemy Act.
The firm of Mutzenbecher was engaged in business as
managers of a reinsurance "pool" in Hamburg, Germany,
and as such managers represented a number of fire insurance companies, including the appellant, as members of
the pool which was formed for the purpose of sharing and
redistributing reinsurance business contributed to the
pool by its various members. They were in complete
control of the pool and received as compensation for their
services a fixed commission based on the annual net
premium upon reinsurance or retrocession contracts (that
is, contracts reinsuring reinsurers) plus a stipulated percentage of the annual net profit of the total business
conducted by the pool.
For a considerable period before the outbreak of the
world war, Meinel acted as sub-agent for the Mutzenbechers in the negotiation of the reinsurance business of

SECOND RUSSIAN INS. CO. v. MILLER.
552

555

Opinion of the Court.

the appellant and of several other insurance companies
for whom they acted in effecting the distribution and
allotment of reinsurance risks. In the ordinary, course
of business, Meinel, acting for the appellant, enteed into
treaties with companies writing direct insurance in the
United States, whereby appellant undertook the reinsurance of risks insured by those companies. Premiums for
this reinsurance were collected by Meinel from the companies which had thus ceded insurance to appellant and
after depositing the required reserve for unearned premiumg with the Trustee of appellant, pursuant to the
New York statute, the balance, together with documents
giving particulars of all reinsurance to be effected by the
Mutzenbechers for account of appellant, was transmitted
to them in Hamburg. From the premiums thus received,
the Mutzenbechers paid the expenses of their business,
including their own commissions amounting to 3 %, and
remitted to Meinel in New York out of their own commission, certain expenses and 34 of 1% of the premiums
thus transmitted, as commissions to Meinel for doing the
business in New York. This continued to be the method
of doing business after the outbreak of the world war
until January 1, 1915, when the remittances from Meinel
to the Mutzenbecher firm ceased because of -war conditions. During the calendar year 1916, until November,
Meinel paid to the Mutzenbechers from premiums received 2 % commission payable to them and retained its
own commissions and expenses.
In October, 1916, the Russian Government promulgated a ukase by the terms of which all Russian subjects
were forbidden to enter into any agreement or commercial
relations whatever with citizens of enemy countries and
which proclaimed that all existing relations, by virtue of
contracts, with enemy firms must be considered as at an
end from the date of promulgation. Violation of the decree was punishable by imprisonment and fine. The ap-

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U.S.

pellant, which up to that time had continued its ordinary
business relations with the Mutzenbechers, then found it
necessary to terminate its relations with them, which it
did, in form at least, by the appointment of Meinel, as its
general agent, to effect reinsurance and to carry on the
business which had previously been carried on by the
Mutzenbechers at Hamburg. By the terms of this appointment Meinel was appointed general agent for the
appellant, authorized to effect reinsurance for appellant's
account, and to retain for itself as compensation for
handling the business, commissions at the rate of 31/2%
of the net premiums received.
The principal question of fact presented for consideration by the courts below was whether this transfer of the
general reinsurance agency from the Mutzenbechers to
Meinel was made in good faith or whether it was formal
only, and a mere cover under which the business was intended to be conducted by the Mutzenbechers as it had
been previously conducted. On that question of fact, both
the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals found
for the Alien Property Custodian and against the appellant. That finding we adopt. The evidence was sufficient
to support it and will not be discussed here, except insofar
as it may be necessary to indicate what the legal relationship of Meinel to the M\[utzenbechers was, so that the
question of lav presented here may be adequately dealt
with.
No further remittances were made by Meinel to the
Mutzenbechers after November 22, 1916, but it deducted
from all net premiums received 31 4% commission as
stipulated by its agency appointment. Of the commission thus deducted it retained for itself a commission of
3/4 of 1% plus its expenses and the balance was deposited
in a special bank account in its name and carried on its
books as a "suspense reserve account." The account remained undisturbed until July 26, 1918, when, the Alien

SECOND RUSSIAN INS. CO. v. MILLER.
552

557

Opinion of the Court.

Property Custodian having begun an investigation of the
books and records of Meinel, the fund which is the subject
of this suit was then turned over by it to, the New York
Life Insurance & Trust Co., the trustee for appellant, and
was by it later paid over to the Alien Property Cusodian.
The inference drawn by the courts below from these
facts and from vQluminous testimony which need not be
here reviewed was that the transfer of the agency from
the Mutzenbechers to Meinel was merely colorable; that
the commissions segregated in the suspense reserve account which were commissions from old business, that is,
premiums earned under reinsurance treaties effected before the transfer of the agency, notwithstanding the
formal terms of the written appointment of Meincl, were
commissions to which Mutzenbecher was entitled under
the contract or arrangement existing between Mutzenbecher, Meinel and appellant before the transfer of the
agency and that Meinel had in fact received and set them
apart as the property of the Mutzenbechers. These findings, so far as they relate to what the parties did in these
somewhat complicated transactions, and the purpose and
intent with which they acted, deal with questions of fact
and, as they are supported by the evidence, they are
controlling here.
The proposition of law which is presented, and on the
basis of which we are asked to reverse the judgment below
rests upon the asserted illegality of appellant's own conduct. It is argued that the effect of the Russian ukase of
October 29, 1916, was to make unlawful the agency of the
Mutzenbecher firm for appellant and all further relations
between them; that the Mutzenbechers were accordingly
not entitled to. earn or receive further commissions even
from "old business "; that the fund segregated in the suspense reserve account by Meinel was therefore at all times
property of appellant and not subject to seizure by the
Alien Property Custodian since the illegal conduct of ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

pellant had prevented the acquisition of any rights in the
fund or against the appellant by the German firm.
To sustain this proposition it is necessary for the appellant to maintain, (1) that it has retained some form of
legal interest in the 3 % commission deducted by Meinel
under the terms of its agency appointment of November
1916; and (2) that the Russian ukase should be given an
extra-territorial effect such as to render the acts of the
appellant within the United States, which were otherwise
lawful and proper according to the laws of the United
States, unlawful and void, and thus prevent the Mutzenbecher firm from acquiring any interest in the, segregated
fund.
We think appellant does not succeed in establishing
either proposition. Although Meinel was the statutory
agent of appellant in the State of New York and transacted there certain business for the appellant, it was also,
and had been for many years before the outbreak of the
war, the sub-agent of the Mutzenbechers in handling the
business which was transmitted to the German firm to be
distributed in the reinsurance pool. The commissions for
this service were paid to Meinel by the Mutzenbechers.
After the outbreak of the war it became their agent to
receive and remit to them commissions for carrying on the
reinsurance business for appellant. When the colorable
transfer of the Mutzenbechers' agency was made to
Meinel, it was accepted by Meinel only after it was authorized to do so by the Mutzenbechers. Appellant having formally authorized Meinel to deduct and retain
31/27%commission for conducting the business, and Meinel
having actually deducted and retained it, and the court
having found that that portion of the commissions placed
in the suspense account was placed there by Meinel for
the benefit of the Mutzenbechers, with the knowledge and
consent of the appellant, and they having formally claimed
the segregated fund, we are unable to see that the appel-

-SECOND RUSSIAN INS. CO. v. MILLER.
552

559

Opinion of the Court.

lant is in any different situation with respect to this ful.d
than it would have been if it had paid over the commissions directly to the Mutzenbechers or to their authorized
agent.
At the time the agency was transferred to Meinel, the
United States was at peace with Germany. The action of
Meinel, an American corporation controlled by American
stockholders, in taking over the German agency, did not
violate any law or policy of the United States. It was
not unlawful for it to stipulate that it should receive
commissions for doing the business or to agree to receive
them for the Mutzenbechers, and having received them,
it was not unlawful for it to hold the commissions as the
agent of the German firm for its account and benefit.
Whatever view we take of the arrangement entered into
by the appellant with Meinel, appellant can claim under
it no ownership in the deducted commissions. By appellant's formal agreement with Meinel, it relinquished all
claims to the commissions. By the secret understanding
between appellant, Meinel and the Mutzenbechers, the
segregated fund was received and held for account of the
Mutzenbechers. Until the declaration of war by the
United States against Germany, the Mutzenbechers in
this state of facts could have maintained a suit against
Meinel for an accounting and payment over of the segregated fund. Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113; Taylor v.
Benham, 5 How. 233, 274; National Bank v. Insurance
Co., 104 U. S. 54; Kohler v. Board of Commissioners, 89
Fed. 257, 260; Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. N. Y. Central
R. R. Co., 206 Fed. 663, 665; In re Interborough Corporation, 288 Fed. 334, 347.
In view of the legal relationship existing between
Meinel and the Mutzenbechers and the legal consequences
which flow from it, we find it unnecessary to speculate
as to the precise meaning and effect of the Russian ukase.
The Circuit Court of Appeals below rejected the conten-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U.S.

tion that it should be given extra-territorial effect so as
to make illegal the transactions had in New York between
appellant and Meinel with respect to their dealings with
the German firm. Certainly such an application of foreign law to acts done within the territorial jurisdiction of
the forum carries the principle of the adoption of foreign
law by comity much beyond its limits as at present
defined, the more so as the contract between a Russian
and a German which we are asked to hold illegal on the
basis of Russian law is shown by the expert testimony in
the case to be valid according to the German law. The
contention runs counter to the reasoning of such cases,
as Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 598; Hilton v.
Guyot, 159 U. S. 113; Hervey v. R. I. Locomotive Works,
93 U. S. 664; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch 241; Polydore v.
Prince 19 Fed. Cas. No. 11257; Dike v. Erie R. R., 45
N. Y. 113. Nor does Canada Southern Ry. Co. v. Gebhardt, 109 U. S. 527, relied upon by appellant, support
the contention. That case only laid down the doctrine
recently affirmed by this Court (Modern Woodmen of
America v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544) that the legal relations
of the members of a corporation to the corporation and to
each other must be regulated and controlled by the law of
the jurisdiction in which the corporation is organized, and
it extended the doctrine so as to make it applicable to
mortgage security holdershaving a common interest in the
corporate property. The Russian ukase however did not
purport to regulate the internal relations of the corporation to its members or lien holders. By its terms it is
applicable indiscriminately to individuals and all classes
of associations and corporations, and apparently undertakes to deal with contracts of every kind. It cannot be
brought within the purview of the rule established in
Canada Southern Railway Co. v. Gebhardt and Modern
Woodmen of America v. Mixer, supra.
If, however, it be assumed that its true meaning and
purpose was to control extra-territorially, Russian sub-

SECOND RUSSIAN INS. CO. v. MILLER.
552

561

Opinion of the Court.

jects, and that it not only imposed penalties on Russian
nationals for its violation, but rendered unlawful and void
all contracts and commercial intercourse within our own
territory, between Russian nationals and Russian enemies, we still do not find in that assumption any basis
for the reversal of the judgment below. Had the obligation of appellant to pay the commissions in question
remained executory, the assumption that our courts
should give an extra-territorial effect to the Russian ukase
and disregard the German law affecting the rights of the
Mutzenbechers upon their contract with appellant to be
performed in German territory, might have been of some
avail to it. But as we have seen, the findings of the court
below establish that payment of the commissions was
made as effectually as if the payment had been by cash
in hand. When Meinel set apart the fund for the Mutzenbechers nothing further remained to be done by appellant with respect to the payment. It had relinquished
all claim to the fund and Meinel held it for the Mutzenbechers. When the United States declared war, the fund
was one held by an American national for the benefit of
an alien enemy and on passage of the Trading with the
Enemy Act (October 6, 1917), it became its duty to report
the fund to the Alien Property Custodian (Trading with
the Enemy Act, Section 7-a, 40 Stat. 416) and to surrender it to the Custodian on demand (Section 7-c, 40

Stat. 418).
To hold that money thus situated was not subject to
the seizure and retention, under the provisions of the
Trading with the Enemy Act, would be going very far;
but quite apart from the operation of that Act, we find
no basis for the contention that the principle of comity
would require us to recognize any-right in appellant to
recover back the money thus paid because the payment
of it was forbidden by the Russian ukase. No foundation
55627-25--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

for it in the Russian law is suggested. By our own law
payments made under contracts which are illegal where
the parties are in par! delicto may not ordinarily be
recovered. The law leaves the parties where it finds
them and gives no relief. Thomas v. City of Richmond,
12 Wall. 349; Higgins v. McCrea, 116 U. S. 671, 684;
White v. Barber, 123 U. S. 392, 423; Dent v. Ferguson,
132 U. S. 50; St. Louis R. R. v. Terre Haute R. R. Co.,
145 U. S. 393, 407; Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co.,
197 U. S. 244, 294; Barringtonv. Stucky, 165 Fed. 325,
330; Levi v. Kansas City, 168 Fed. 524. While there are
exceptions to this rule, appellant's case does not fall
within any recognized exception and the record suggests
no special considerations of equity or of our own public
policy which would justify an exception in this case.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the appellant
was not entitled to recover the fund as against the
Mutzenbechers. Such being the rights of the parties,
while the fund remained in the hands of Meinel, their
rights could not be altered to the prejudice either of the
Mutzenbechers or that of the Government by payment
over of the fund by Meinel to the trustee for appellant.
The trustee was not a purchaser and could not take the
fund free of the legal or equitable rights of the Mutzenbechers, National Bank v. Insurance Co., supra, although
it might and did discharge itself under the provisions of
the Trading with the Enemy Act by payment of the
money over to the Alien Property Custodian. (Trading
with the Enemy Act, ยง 7-e, 40 Stat. 418.)
The appellant establishes no right in the fund which
is tl~e subject of litigation; we find no error in the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

