OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

to require the alleged grant to be proved. As the case
can be dealt with more satisfactorily when the exact
facts are before the Court we go into no more elaborate
discussion now.
Decree reversed.
SOUTHERN UTILITIES COMPANY v. CITY OF
PALATKA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

FLORIDA.

No. 339. Argued April 27, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.
1. An agreement of a public utility with a city to observe specified rates remains binding even after the rates become unremunerative, if the contract does not lack mutuality. P. 233.
2. The fact that the state legislature has power to regulate the rates
does not deprive the contract between the utility and the city of
mutuality. Id.
86 Fla. 583, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Supreme Court of the

State of Florida., affirming a decree enjoining the peti-

tioner from increasing its rates for electric lighting.
Mr. William L. Ransom, with whom Messrs. TV. B.
Crawford and J. T. G. Crawford were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. P. H. Odom, with whom Mr. J. J. Canon was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The City of Palatka brought this bill to restrain the
petitioner, the Southern Utilities Company, from charging more than ten cents per kilowatt, meter measurement, for commercial electric lighting in the city. It
alleged a contract in the grant of the petitioner's fran-

SOUTHERN UTILITIES CO. v. PALATKA.
232

233

Opinion of the Court.

chise by which the petitioner was bound not to charge
more than that sum. The defendant pleaded that in
present circumstances the rate prescribed in the ordinance granting the franchise was unreasonably low and
that to enforce it would deprive defendant of its property without due process of law contrary to the Constitution of the United States. The plea was overruled
and defendant having declined to plead further a decree
was entered for the plaintiff by the Circuit Court for
Putnam County which subsequently was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. 86 Fla. 583.
The Supreme Court held that the City had power
to grant the franchise and to make the contract and
that it had no power of its own motion to withdraw, but
it concedes the unfettered power of the legislature to regulate the rates. On that ground the defendant contends
that there is a lack of mutuality and therefore that it
is free and cannot. be held to rates that in the absence of
contract it would be unconstitutional to impose. The
argument cannot prevail. Without considering whether
an agreement by the Company in consideration of the
grant of the franchise might not. bind the Company in
some cases, even if it left the City free, it is perfectly
plain that the fact that the contract might be overruled
by a higher power does not destroy its binding effect between the parties when it is left undisturbed. Georgia
Railway & Power Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 438.
Opelika v. Opelika Sewer Co., 265 U. S. 215, 218. Such
a notion logically carried out would impart new and
hitherto unsuspected results to the power to gmend the
Constitution or to exercise eminent domain. There is
nothing in this decision inconsistent with Southern Iowa
Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 539; San Antonio v.
San Antonio Public Service Co., 255 U. S. 547 and Ortega
Co. v. Triay, 260 U. S. 103.
Decree affirmed.

