UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
ill

Syllabus.

respects are unable to comply with the order of the District Court.
The judgment of the District Court was proper. The
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. DUNN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 120. Argued March 13, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. Parties who take a lease of a ward's property under a secret.
agreement with the guardian making the lease that it shall inure
in part to his personal benefit, hold the lease, and if that. be
transferred to a purchaser, hold the proceeds they acquire from
it, as trustees ex maleficio for the ward without regard to whether
the ward was actually damaged by the fraud of the guardian.
P. 130.
2. In such cases, the ward may, at his option, follow the fraudulently diverted trust res until it reaches the hands of a bom fide
purchaser for value, or claim the proceeds of the sale or other
disposition of it in the hands of the person who fraudulently acquired it from the fiduciary and in the hands of that person's
donees. P. 132.
3. A suit to establish an equitable claim to specific property may
be prosecuted to subject the proceeds of that property to the trust,
if it develop in the course of the trial that the defendant has
conveyed it away in violation of his equitable duty to the plaintiff. P. 133.
4. The guardian of an Indian leased his ward's land partly
in consideration of a secret interest for himself agreed to by his
lessees; and afterwards, in a compromise between the lessees
and one who had obtained a lease of the same land from the Indian's curator, the guardian's lease was executed by the curator
also and, having been approved by a County Court and by the
Secretary of the Interior, was assigned to a corporation, shares
of which were issued to the respective lessees and parties claiming under them, the assignment of the lease being the sole consideration for the shares distributed to the lessees of the guardian. Held, (a) that a suit- by the United States, on behalf of

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

268 U. S.

the Indian, to set the lease aside or for alternative relief, could
be prosecuted to reach the shares, or the proceeds thereof, in
the hands of the fraudulent lessees and their donees, including
shares bought by these lessees from the guardian, even though
relief could not be had as against the corporation and bona fide
purchasers for value; and (b) that an agreement by the plaintiff after defeat in the District Court, not to prosecute the appeal
as against the corporation and bona fide shareholders, did not
prevent this relief as against the others. P. 135.
5. In a suit praying relief from the execution and legal effects of
a lease because it was procured by the fraud of the lessees, the
lessees can not, while claiming under it and holding the benefits
derived from it, deny the authority of the lessor to make it.
P. 135.
6. One who claims the benefit derived from a breach of trust in
which he actively participated and who shows no prejudice from a
delay of six years in bringing suit to compel him to account, can not
complain of laches. P. 136.
288 Fed. 158, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
a bill brought by the United States, on behalf of a fullblooded Choctaw Indian, a minor, to cancel for fraud an
oil and gas lease on the Indian's land in Oklahoma, or, in
the alternative, to affix a trust on shares held by defendants in a corporation, also a defendant, to which the
lease had been assigned.
Messrs. Walter A. Ledbetter and W. W. Dyar, Special

Assistants to the Attorney General, for the United States.
The Solicitor General was on the briefs.
Messrs. George S. Ramsay and William G. Davigson,
for appellees. Messrs. William B. Johnson, Hugh. W.
McGill, Edgar A. de Meules, and Villard Martin were

on the briefs.
Eaves was the duly appointed, qualified, legal and act-

ing curator or guardian of the estate, and as such was
the only person empowered by law to execute an oil lease

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Argument for Appellees.

on the land in question. Two separate and distinct
guardianships or curatorships cannot exist at the same
time for one and the same person. Eaves was not only
de jure curator, because he actually occupied the office
and exercised the authorities of a curator. The lease
executed by Eaves, curator, to Mullen, under the order
and confirmation of the County Court of Love County,
was valid and binding subject to the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior-that is to say, it was as valid
and binding as possible to make under the law, the Secretary's approval being necessary to its final confirmation.
The execution of a lease on the same land to Dunn
and Gillam by a pseudo guardian, no matter how fraudulently obtained, created no actionable wrong in favor
of the ward against the lessees under such lease, in the
absence of evidence that the ward suffered some injury
thereby. Dunn and Gillam, occupying no fiduciary relationship to the ward, and having obtained nothing by
virtue of the Thomas lease, cannot be held to be trustees of any property or rights or interest acquired by
them in the Mullen lease from Eaves by virtue of having used the Thomas lease as a means of coercing Mullen into a compromise agreement whereby they obtained
from Mullen, and not from the ward, an interest in the
lease. The fact that Eaves joined in the Thomas lease
instead of Thomas joining in the Eaves lease in no way
alters the legal rights or status of the parties, it clearly
appearing that the lease involved in this case never acquired any validity from its execution by Thomas, as
guardian, and therefore, insofar as the rights of the parties are involved, we should treat the lease as having
been executed solely by Eaves, as curator.
It was immaterial to the Department and to the parties
whether Thomas joined in the Eaves lease to Mullen or
Eaves joined in the -Thomas lease to Dunn and Gillam,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

268 U. S.

that being a mere formality, it being the intention of all
parties that if the Thomas lease was good Mullen should
have an interest therein and if the Eaves lease was good,
then Dunn and Gillam should have an interest in that
lease.
Two things must concur to constitute actionable
fraud-inequitable conduct and injury. In other words,
fraud and damage must concur before a court of equity
will grant any relief against a judicial sale. The lease
required court approval and partakes of the nature of a
judicial sale. Story's Eq. Juris., 14th ed. Vol. 1, §§ 289
and 290; Bigby v. Powell, 25 Ga. 244; Rock, etc., Ry. Co.,
v. Wells, 61 Ark. 354, 54 Am. St. Rep. 216; Shultz v.
Shultz, 36 Ind. 323; Hartford Fire Ins. Co., v. Meyer,
30 Neb. 135; Mass. Benefit Life Ass'n. v. Lohmiller, 74
Fed. 23; Ableman v. Roth, 12 Wis. 81; Hockaday v.
Jones, 56 Pac. 1054; Wilson v. Shipman, 34 Neb. 573.
There must not only be fraud, but there must be damage
or injury. In other words, it must be shown that it would
be inequitable and unjust for the judgment to be enforced, Felt v. Bell, 10 Am. & Eng. Dec. in Equity, 35.
Defendants are not estopped to deny the authority of
Thomas to act as guardian. Injury is a necessary element of a. valid estoppel, and neither the appellant nor
its ward is injured by showing that Thomas had no authority, nor is the lessee injured.
The appellant was guardian of the full blooded Indian, and had full power to compromise this case, especially with the approval of the Court of Appeals, which
was given. Tiger v. West'n Inv. Co. 221 U. S. 286;
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375-384; Heckman v.
United States, 224 U. S. 444. The appellant, being
vested with complete authority to institute the suit and
control the litigittion, has the concomitant power to compromise the case. Thompson v. Maxwell Land Grant &
Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 451.

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Argument for Appellees.

Upon the discovery of the alleged fraud, the United
States had one of two remedies: A suit in equity for rescission, cancellation and accounting, in which it would
be necessary to offer to do equity by restoring to defendants the consideration paid, etc.; or an action for damages to recover the value of the lease at the time it was
fraudulently obtained. Black, Rescission & Cancellation
(2d ed.), 561..
The plaintiff can not have both of these remedies, and
was required to elect which remedy it would pursue, and,
having elected to pursue the remedy in equity for rescission, it is bound thereby, Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192
U. S. 232. It can not have a judgment for damages or
for the stock of any particular stockholder, Wilson v.
New United States Cattle Ranch, 73 Fed. 994; Shappirio
v. Goldberg, supra; Supreme Council, etc., v. Lippincott,
134 Fed. 284.
The appellant, with or without the written consent of
some of the parties, can not change its action in the Court
of Appeals so as to ask for another and different relief
against some of the parties not joining in the compromise.
The lease, being an entirety, can not be split up by
various suits to cancel against various interested defendants. While an injured party may sue one or all the
joint tort feasors for damages, there can be only one suit
to cancel a lease, and the compromise and settlement of
the suit is an affirmance and ratification of the lease as an
entirety and terminates the cause of action against everyone. I Story, Eq. Juris., (14th ed.,) Vol. 1, § 291. If with
knowledge of the fraud the party exacts performance or
performs himself he condones the fraud, McLean v.
Clapp, 141 U. S. 429; Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55;
Burk v. Johnson, 146 Fed. 209; Kingman v. Stoddard,
85 Fed. 740; Simon v. Goodyear Metallic Rubber Shoe
Co. 105 Fed. 574.
It appears from the evidence that the compromise was
a collusive arrangement between the Bull Head Oil Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

pany and certain of its stockholders whereby certain
stockholders, with the consent and approval of appellant,
received preferential advantages out of the funds and
assets of the corporation in which appellees, Dunn and
wife, also stockholders, were not allowed to participate.
The Government, by entering into the compromise contract whereby the corporate funds were to be used for the
special benefit of a part of the stockholders to the exclusion of other stockholders, made itself a party to the
fraud and cannot, with good grace, further prosecute this
action at law or otherwise. The Government does not
come into this court with clean hands. See State of Iowa
v. Car, 191 Fed. 257-266; United States v. Walker, 139
Fed. 409.
If the compromise with the Bull Head Oil Company
did not enure to the benefit of Dunn and Gillan as stockholders, the measure of any recovery against Dunn and
Gillam is the value of the lease at the time it was executed on August 18, 1913; and, full value having been
paid to the Indian Superintendent and received by the
Indian, there is nothing to recover in this suit. Burnes
v. Burnes, 137 Fed. 800.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit from so much of its
decree as affirms a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Oklahoma dismissing the bill of the plaintiff-the appellant here. 288
Fed. 158.
Suit was begun to cancel an oil and gas lease of forty
acres of land, given to appellees, Dunn and Gillam, by
Thomas, guardian, and signed by Eaves, curator, of Allie
Daney, a minor, full-blood Choctaw Indian. Both
Thomas and Eaves claimed the right to represent the
minor and to lease her land. Eaves was appointed cura-

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Opinion of the Court.

tor of the minor by the United States Court for the Southern District of the Indian Territory in November, 1905,
and, on admission of the Territory of Oklahoma and the
Indian Territory to statehood as the State of Oklahoma,
that court transmitted the curatorship record to the
County Court of Love County. Thomas was appointed
guardian by the County Court of LeFlore County in July,
1911. On August 18, 1913, Eaves executed a lease of the
premises in question to one Mullen, which lease was approved by the County Court of Love County. On the
same day, Thomas, as guardian, executed a lease of the
same premises to Dunn and Gillam, which lease was approved by the County Court of LeFlore County. The
two leases came to the Indian Superintendent for his recommendation for approval by the Secretary of the Interior
at about the same time. This developed a controversy
between Mullen on the one hand and Dunn and Gillam
on the other as to whether Thomas or Eaves properly
represented the minor and had legal authority to enter
into a lease of the minor's lands. A compromise was
finally effected between the contesting parties whereby
Eaves added his signature as curator to the lease which
had been given by Thomas to Dunn and Gillam and acknowledged it. At the same time the Bull Head Oil Company, a corporation and one of the defendants, was organized. The Thomas lease was assigned to it under an
agreement that the lessees would take for their respective
interests in the leasehold, equal shares of stock. The
capital of the Bull Head Oil Company was fixed at
$18,000, of which 8,000 shares of the capital stock of the
Company, having a par value of $8,000, were issued to
Mullen, the lessee under the Eaves lease, and 8,000 shares
were issued to Dunn, as trustee, for account of the lessees
under the Thomas lease and those claiming under them.
The remainder of the capital stock was reserved and issued for other corporate purposes.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The bill of complaint joined as defendants the Bull
Head Oil Company, Dunn and Gillam and their wives
and Mullen and others who were stockholders of the Company. It charged that the Thomas lease was voidable
because, as alleged, Thomas, the guardian, had been induced to execute the lease by a secret agreement with
Dunn and Gillam to the effect that a one-fourth interest
in the lease was to be transferred by them to a third person for the personal benefit of Thomas. The bill prayed
that the minor, Allie Daney, be decreed to be the owner
in fee of the lands described in the Thomas lease; that the
defendants be adjudged to have no interest therein and
that they be required to account for the oil and gas taken
from the land and for the money received by them as
the proceeds of the oil and gas so taken and, in the alternative, if for any reason the court should adjudge that
the lease of the premises could not be cancelled, then that
the defendant stockholders be adjudged the holders of said
stock respectively in trust for the minor, and that the
plaintiff be awarded the custody thereof for her use and
benefit and that the defendants who are or at any time
have been stockholders of the Bull Head Oil Company
be required to account for all money received by them
respectively either as dividends or as proceeds of sale of
their stock.
On trial the court found that a part of the consideration moving Thomas, as guardian, to execute the lease to
Dunn and Gillam was a one-fourth interest in the lease
transferred by them pursuant to a secret agreement with
the guardian to a third person for the personal use and
benefit of Thomas. The trial court further found that
Eaves, as curator, by subscribing his name to the Thomas
lease, with the approval of the County Court of Love
County and with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, gave legal validity to that lease; that such action
of Eaves was free from the legal effect of the fraud of

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Opinion of the Court.

Thomas and of Dunn and Gillam, and that by the transfer of the lease to the Bull Head Oil Company in exchange
for its issue of capital stock, the full legal ownership of
the lease was thereupon vested in the Bull Head Oil Company free from any legal effect of the fraud in the execution of the original lease by Thomas, the guardian. The
court also found that of the shares of stock acquired by
Gillam as a result of the compromise entered into with
Dunn and Gillam by Mullen, 3,2662 shares, of which his
wife Mrs. Gillam, a party defendant, held 1,2662/3 shares,
were sold by them to one Hamon, a party defendant, for
the sum of $75,000 and that Hamon was an innocent purchaser for value of the stock; that the defendant T. H.
Dunn still retained his holdings in the stock of the Company. There was also a finding that certain shares of
the Dunn and Gillam stock transferred by them respectively to Mrs. Dunn and Mrs. Gillam, were so transferred
without consideration. Upon the basis of these findings
the court entered its decree in favor of the defendants and
dismissed the case.
After the entry of the decree of the District Court the
plaintiff, acting by the Secretary of the Interior, entered
into an agreement, approved by the Secretary and an
Assistant Attorney General, with all the defendants other
than the defendants Dunn and his wife and the defendants Gillam and his wife, whereby it was stipulated that,
in any appeal which the United States should take from
the decision of the District Court in this cause, "the
United States would neither ask nor insist upon a reversal of the said cause, or a recovery against the Bull
Head Oil Company or against any of the defendants in
said cause, save and except T. H. Dunn, N. E. Dunn
[wife of T. H. Dunn], J. Robert Gillam and Mrs. J.
Robert Gillam and that it will not insist upon any judgment impressing a Trust upon any of the stock in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Bull Head Oil Company heretofore owned by J. Robert
Gillam or Mrs. J. Robert Gillam and assigned to Jake
Hamon, but will insist upon a money judgment against
them for whatever amount the testimony may show
should be awarded."
Both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals found, and the appellees do not question the correctness of the finding, that the Thomas lease to Dunn
and Gillam was procured by fraud; nor can it be questioned on this record that the claim of Dunn and Gillam
to rights under the Thomas lease was the only basis
and consideration moving from them for the compromise
agreement by them with Mullen, claiming under the
Eaves lease, which resulted in Dunn and Gillam together
receiving in exchange for their interest in the lease, 8,000
shares of the capital stock of the Bull Head Oil Company as the fruits of their fraudulent enterprise. Of this
stock Dunn and.his wife still hold a substantial amount.
Gillam and his wife have converted the stock held by
them into cash by sale of it to an innocent purchaser,
and the leasehold itself, by the action of Dunn and Gillam, has been transferred to the Bull Head Oil Company
and has been adjudged by the decree of the District Court
to be beyond the reach of the plaintiff and the plaintiff's
ward, and the plaintiff in error has abandoned its appeal
from that part of the decree.
There is thus presented the narrow question whether
the appellees, Dunn and wife and Gillam and wife,
against whom this appeal is now prosecuted, may retain
the fruits of this fraudulent course of conduct, immune
from attack in a court of equity. The court below rested
its decision on the ground that the compromise settlement entered into with the defendants, some of whom
were stockholders of the Bull Head Oil Company, other
than the appellees against whom this appeal is prosecuted, had the effect of confirming the Thomas lease and,

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Opinion of the Court.

if the appellant had the right to continue the litigation
against Dunn and Gillam, that right is based on their
alleged fraudulent conduct and is a claim for damages
on account of the fraud, and since there was no evidence
that the lease was granted for an inadequate return, there
was no basis for an award of legal damages to the appellant.
Undoubtedly in an action at law for fraud or deceit,
since the action sounds in damage, the plaintiff must
prove damage to establish a right to recover. If Dunn
and Gillam had retained the lease which they fraudulently obtained from Thomas, as guardian, the plaintiff
could, at its option, either have brought suit in equity
against them for the cancellation of the lease, or for
damages against the guardian, or possibly also at law for
damages against Dunn and Gillam, and on familiar principles any relinquishment of plaintiff's right to cancel the
lease would necessarily have limited plaintiff to a right
of recovery for damages. But such is not the situation
here presented. The grant of the lease by Thomas, the
guardian, to Dunn and Gillam with a secret agreement
that the guardian should be jointly interested in the lease
with Dunn and Gillam, was a fraud upon the ward, rendering the whole transaction voidable at the option of
the ward or those legally representing her. It is not necessary in such a situation in order to establish the right
to relief to show that the beneficiary was damaged by
the fraudulent conduct of the trustee. It is sufficient
to establish that the fiduciary has exercised his power of
disposition for his own benefit without more. Michoud
et al. v. Girod et al., 4 How. 503, 533; Wardell v. Railway Co., 103 U. S. 651, 658; Thomas v. R. R. Co., 109
U. S. 522; Burns v. Cooper, 140 Fed. 273, 277; Mastin v.
Noble, 157 Fed. 506, 509; New York Central & H. R. R.
R. v. Price, 159 Fed. 330, and Lane & Co. v. Maple Cotton
Mill, 232 Fed. 421, 423.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Dunn and Gillam did not retain their interest in the
lease which they had fraudulently acquired. They transferred it, together with the secret interest of Thomas,
the guardian in the lease, to the defendant the Bull Head
Oil Company in exchange for stock in that corporation.
They then acquired by purchase from Thomas, for the
sum of $3,500 and an automobile, his interest in the stock
of the corporation. Some of the stock which they acquired by this transaction was turned over to their wives
who, the court found, took as donees, and some of it was
retained and is now held by appellees, and some of it
has been transferred by them to innocent purchasers for
value. In such a situation, equity adopts the salutary
rule that he who fraudulently traffics with a recreant
fiduciary shall take nothing by his fraud. The ward or
the beneficiary of a trust may, at his option, follow the
trust res fraudulently diverted until it reaches the hands
of an innocent purchaser for value, or he may, at his
option, claim the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the trust res in the hands of him who fraudulently
acquired it of the fiduciary.
The legal principles governing the right to follow trust
funds diverted in breach of the trust were succinctly and
accurately stated by Turner, L. J., in Pennell v. Deffell,
4 DeGex, M. & G. 372, 388, as follows:
"It is an undoubted principle of this court that as
between a cestui qui trust and trustee and all parties
claiming under the trustee, otherwise than by purchase
for valuable consideration without notice, all property
belonging to a trust, however much it may be changed or
altered in its nature or character, and all the fruits of
such property, whether it is in its original or its altered
state, continues to be subject to or affected by the trust."
To the same effect are Oliver et al. v. Piatt,3 How. 333,
401; Lane v. Dighton, Amb. 409; Ex parte v. Dumars,
Atkyns, 232, 233; Taylor v. Plummer, 3 Maule & Selwyn,

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Opinion of the Court.

562, 571; Cobb v. Knight, 74 Me. 253; People v. California Safe Deposit & Trust Co., 175 Cal. 756; Hubbard
v. Burrell, 41 Wis. 365.
The rule is the same as against a fraudulent vendee
who has exchanged the property purchased for other
property. American Sugar Refining Co. v. Fancher, 145
N. Y. 552.
The rule is the same with respect to the proceeds of
property tortiously misappropriated and found in the
hands of the tort feasor or his transferee with notice.
Newton v. Porter,69 N. Y. 133.
Dunn and Gillam, when they fraudulently acquired
the Thomas lease by the corrupt action of the guardian,
which action they actively induced, became trustees ex
naleficio of the lease, and as such trustees they became
equitably bound to hold the lease for the benefit of the
ward or, in the event of a sale or other disposition of it,
to hold its proceeds upon a like obligation. Any other
rule would enable the fraudulent recipient of trust property, acquired through a. breach of trust, to render himself immune to the remedial action of equity by the
simple expedient of transferring the trust res thus acquired to an innocent purchaser for value, or otherwise
placing it beyond the reach of the defrauded beneficiary
of the trust. Nor are they in any better situation with
respect to the stock which they acquired by purchase
from Thomas with full knowledge that it was a part of
the proceeds of the lease fraudulently acquired from the
guardian and by them fraudulently transferred to the Oil
Company. Not being innocent purchasers, they took it
impressed with the trust to which the lease itself was
subject. Newton v. Porter, supra.
The plaintiff's bill was framed in conformity to the rule
as we have stated it. It prayed cancellation of the lease
in the hands of the Bull Head Oil Company, the transferee of Dunn and Gillam; "but if for any reason the

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Court shall hold" that the lease could not be cancelled,
then it prayed that the stockholders be adjudged to hold
the stock in trust for the plaintiff. The District Court
having decreed that the leasehold itself could not be followed into the hands of the Bull Head Oil Company, the
plaintiff was not barred from claiming the proceeds of the
lease in the form of stock or money in the hands of those
stockholders who were not innocent purchasers for value,
and the pleadings were appropriately framed to that end.
Suit to establish an equitable claim to specific property
does not bar a recovery of the proceeds of that property
if it develops in the course of the trial that the defendant
has conveyed it away in violation of his equitable obligation to the plaintiff. Taylor v. Kelly, 3 Jones, Eq.
240; Haughwout v. Murphy, 22 N. J. Eq. 531-547;
Valentine v. Richardt, 126 N. Y. 273; Sugg v. Stowe, 5
Jones Eq. 126; Siter's Appeal, 26 Pa. 178; Frick's Appeal, 101 Pa. 485; Bartz v. Paff, 95 Wis. 95. See also
Jervis v. Smith, 1 Hoffman's Chancery Rep. 470; Daniel's
v. Davison, 16 Vesey 249; and 1 Sugden on Vendors, 277.
In Valentine v. Richardt, supra, suit was brought in
equity to cancel a conveyance of real estate for fraud.
The alleged fraudulent grantee, and his grantee and a
subsequent mortgagee, were made parties defendant, and
the relief demanded was that the two conveyances and
the mortgage be declared void and that they be surrendered up and cancelled, and for such further and other
relief as might be just. On the trial the court found that
the first conveyance was procured by fraud, but that the
second conveyance and the mortgage were taken in good
faith for value, and the complaint was dismissed as to
them. It was held that the first grantee was a trustee of
the property ex maleficio; that the bill might be retained
against the first grantee and that the plaintiff might, in
equity, secure a money judgment for the value of the
land, not as damages, but as a substitute for the land it-

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
121

Opinion of the Court.

self, and that, under the frame of the bill and prayer, the
court had power to render any judgment consistent with
the facts alleged and proved; a principle of decision which
we think is exactly applicable to the present case. See
also Mooney v. Byrne, 163 N. Y. 86.
The compromise agreement entered into by plaintiff
with defendants other than Dunn and Gillam was not
technically a confirmation of the lease. It was both in
form and in substance only an abandonment of an appeal
from a decree of the court, adjudging an indefeasible title
to the lease to be in the defendant corporation. The practical effect was to enable the other stockholders, at a
price, to lessen the danger of being involved in the fraud
by their probable guilty knowledge of it. But even if it
were deemed to be a. confirmation of the lease, such a confirmation is not inconsistent with a recovery of the proceeds of the lease from Dunn and Gillam and those claiming under them, nor, as has been pointed out, does it bar
a recovery of the proceeds. Indeed, a recovery of the
proceeds of the assignment of the lease by Dunn and Gillam could be predicated only on a confirmation of the
transfer which would bar a recovery of the leasehold itself.
Bonner v. Holland, 68 Ga. 718; Cavieux v. Sears, 258 Ill.
221; Beltencourt v. Beltencourt, 70 Ore. 384, 396.
Nor do we find it necessary to consider the question
whether Eaves, the curator, or Thomas, the guardian,
properly represented the minor, or whether either of them
possessed exclusively the power to dispose of the property
of the minor, or to determine the precise legal effect of
the addition of Eaves' signature to the Thomas lease.
Thomas, under whom Dunn and Gillam claim, assumed
to act as guardian in the disposition of his ward's property. Dunn and Gillam dealt with him in that capacity.
On common law principles they cannot deny the legal capacity in which their lessor purported to act in executing
the lease under which they claim. Clary v. Ferguson, 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Porter 501; Pouder v. Catterson, 127 Ind. 434; Wolf v.
Holten, 92 Mich. 136; 104 Mich. 108; Parker v. Raymond,
14 Mo. 535; Steel v. Gilmour, 77 App. Div. (N. Y.) 199,
203; Steuber v. Huber, 107 App. Div. (N. Y.) 599;
Shell v. West, 130 N. C. 171; Caldwell v. Harris, 4
Humphrey 24; Tiffany Landlord & Tenant, § 78 h & j.
This is the rule adopted by the statute of Oklahoma. See
§ 5247 Compiled Statutes of Oklahoma, 1921; Avery v.
VanVoorhis, 42 Okla. 232, 241. In a suit founded upon
the very existence of the lease and praying relief from its
execution and legal operation because procured by the
fraud of the lessees, the lessees cannot claim under the
lease, hold the benefits derived from it, and, at the same
time deny the power and authority of the lessor to execute it.
We can perceive no reason why a doubtful or uncertain claim of Dunn and Gillam to the leasehold, sufficient
nevertheless to constitute the consideration for the compromise contract with Mullen (Blount v. Wheeler. 199
Mass. 330; Zoebisch v. Von.inden, 120 N. Y. 406; Dredging Co. v. Hess, 71 N. J. L. 327) could not become the
subject matter of a trust arising ex maleficio from the
fraud of Dunn and Gillam and, upon principles already
referred to, it follows that if Dunn and Gillam could not
resist a bill to compel the cancellation of the lease, they
cannot now resist the prayer that they account for the
proceeds of the lease acquired by their sale of it and which
are the direct fruits of their fraud.
A period of about six years elapsed between the giving
of the Thomas lease and the filing of the bill. The defendants neither pleaded nor have they urged laches as a
defense; nor do we find in the record any adequate basis
for denying relief on that ground. One who claims the
benefit derived from a breach of trust in which he actively participates and who shows no prejudice resulting
from the delay in bringing suit to compel him to account

