NOR. PACIFIC v. DEPT. PUBLIC WORKS.
35

39

Syllabus.

as the question whether the trial court had jurisdiction
does not appear to have been considered by either of the
lower courts and was not discussed by the parties here,
our direction to the Circuit Court of Appeals is to remand
the case to the District Court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET
AL. v. THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 371.

Argued March 10, 11, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. A judgment of a state supreme court sustaining an order of a
state commission which fixed intrastate railroad rates, and overruling the railroad's claim that the rates were confiscatory and
' ased on arbitrary findings of fact unsupported by evidence, held
.reviewable by writ of error. P. 42.
2. An administrative order fixing railroad rates upon a finding with3ut evidence or made upon evidence that clearly does not support it, is an arbitrary act against which courts will afford relief.
P. 44.
3. In a hearing to determine rates for several carriers on intrastate
transportation of logs in carload lots, the average haul of which
by each carrier was 32 miles, the carriers introduced persuasive
evidence that existing rates did not yield any return on the property employed nor defray the operating costs of the traffic.and its
proportionate taxes;. but the state administrative body, without
attacking the proof or attempting to show by reasonably specific
and direct evidence what the actual operating costs of the particular traffic were to the several carriers, lowered the rates on the
basis of a composite figure, created largely from data in the carriers' reports and their exhibits in the case, representing the
weighted average operating cost per thousand gross-ton-miles of
all revenue freight carried on the carriers' railroad systems, including main line and branch line freight, interstate and intrastate, car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

load and less than carload, indiscriminately-Held that this was a
fundamental error and a denial of due process of law. P. 42.
4. The invalidity of an order arbitrarily lowering rates which the
evidence shows are confiscatory is not avoided by making it for
an experimental period. P. 45.
125 Wash. 584, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington affirming an order of the Department of Public
Works, in a suit brought by the above named and three
other railroads to set the order aside.

Mr. C. W. Bunn, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. F. M. Dudley, with whom Mr. 0. W. Dynes was
on the brief, for Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway
Company.
Messrs. Raymond W. Clifford and Scott Z. Henderson,
for defendants in error. Mr.John H. Dunbar, Attorney
General of the State of Washington, and Mr. Stephen V.
Carey, were on the brief.
Messrs. George T. Reid and Lorenzo B. da Ponte were
on the brief, for Northern Pacific Railway Company;
Messrs. Frederic G. Dorety and Thomas Balmer for the
Great Northern Railway Company; and Messrs. Arthur
C. Spencer and William A. Robbins for the OregonWashington Railroad & Navigation Company.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The intrastate transportation of saw logs in car load
lots constitutes a large part of all of the intrastate freight
traffic in Washington on each of the four transcontinental
railroad systems by which much of that service is performed.1 Prior to federal control the rates had, with
IThese are the Northern Pacific, the Great Northern, the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul, and the Oregon-Washington of the Union
Pacific System.

NOR. PACIFIC v. DEPT. PUBLIC WORKS.
39

41

Opinion of the Court.

few exceptions, been initiated from time to time by individual tariffs of the several carriers. In 1918 the Director General of Railroads made a horizontal -increase of
25 per cent. In 1920, after the decision in Ex parte 74,
Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220, a further increase
of 25 per cent. was authorized by the Public Service Commission of the State. Complaint was made that some of
the rates as so raised were excessive and discriminatory;
and that the rate structure lacked uniformity.
On December 28, 1920, ihe Public Service Commission
instituted a proceeding before itself for the purpose of
investigating the log rates and making such order thereon
as the facts found should warrant. Hearings were duly
had in which shippers and the four transcontinental carriers participated. Much evidence was introduced. The
carriers insisted that the existing rates were unremunerative. They also filed, during the hearings, a joint tariff
embodying the higher rates which they deemed reasonable. A suspension order issued; and the two proceedings were consolidated. On February 1, 1922, the Department of Public Works (by which the functions of the
Commission had come to be exercised) made a report in
which it found that the existing rates were highly remunerative. Thereupon it entered an order which, among
other things, abrogated all the intrastate log tariffs then
in force; cancelled the suspended joint tariff filed by the
carriers; and established a uniform distance tariff applicable to these railroads, to remain in effect during an
experimental period of twelve months, or until further
order of the Department. The tariff so prescribed reduced greatly the rates theretofore prevailing. It was
estimated that the revenues of the several carriers from
this traffic would be lessened from 15 to 37 per cent.
and that additional losses in revenue would result from
changes prescribed concerning minimum loadings.
This suit was brought by the carriers against the Department, in the Superior Court of Thurston County, to

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

set aside the order on the ground, among others, that it
deprived them of property in violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The findings of
fact upon which the order proceeded were attacked as
arbitrary and unsupported by the evidence. The prescribed rates were assailed as confiscatory. Northern Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585. Upon the giving
of bonds the court superseded and suspended the order,
except in so far as it cancelled the joint tariff of higher
rates filed by the carriers.2 After full hearing the court
entered a final decree denying the relief sought. This
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, three
judges dissenting. 125 Wash. 584. The case is here under
ยง 237 of the Judicial Code as amended. A motion to dismiss on the ground that the judgment is not.reviewable
on -writ of error was postponed to the hearing on merits.
The motion is denied. Bluefield Water Works & Improvement Co. v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S.
679, 683. As to the merits, many errors are assigned. It
will be sufficient to consider one.'
The log traffic is limited substantially to the section
of the State lying west of the Cascade Mountains. The
average length of its haul on each of these roads is not
more than 32 miles. The three principal carriers pre2 On May 16, 1922, the Interstate Commerce Commission entered
an order reducing Washington interstate rates, Reduced Rates, 1922,
68 I. C. C. 676. Thereupon the Department of Public Works made,
on June 22, 1922, a corresponding reduction in the intrastate log
rates, but it provided specifically that, in view of the pending litigation, this order should not aplly to the carriers here involved.
Second Annual Report of the Department of. Public Works, p. 70,
Appendix G.
3 The character of the proceeding in the state court and the provisions of law applicable thereto are set forth in Oregon R. R. &
Navigation Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510. It was conceded, as was
there held, that the legal proceeding prescribed by the State affords
-- ad, uate opportunity for testing by judicial review the lawfulness of the order complained of.

NOR. PACIFIC v. DEPT. PUBLIC WORKS. 43
Opinion of the Court.

39

sented evidence tending to show that their existing rates
were so low as not to yield any return upon the property
employed in the business; and that the rates did not defray fully the operating costs of the traffic and its proportion of the taxes payable. This evidence was in character persuasive. It was fairly specific, direct, and comprehensive. If the facts warranted, the shippers and the
public officials might, of course, have shown by evidence
of similar character that the carriers' evidence was iniherently untrustworthy; or it might have been overcome
by more persuasive evidence to the contrary. Little attempt was made to show that any testimony introduced
by the carriers was inherently untrustworthy. Little
conflict with the evidence of the carriers was developed
by the evidence as to specific facts introduced for the
shippers and the public. Apparently necessary inferences from specific facts established by the carriers were
not explained away. The Department's findings concerning operating costs rested largely upon deductions from
data found in published reports of the carriers and in
their exhibits filed in this case. Instead of attempting
to show by evidence, reasonably specific and direct, what
the actual operating cost of this traffic was to the several
carriers, the Department created a composite figure representing the weighted average operating cost per 1,000
gross ton miles of all revenue freight carried on the four
systems and made that figure a basis for estimating the
operating cost of the log traffic in Washington.4 This
was clearly erroneous.
A precise issue was the cost on each railroad of transporting logs in carload lots in western Washington, the
average haul on each system being not more than 32
4

The figure taken for the Oregon-Washington was the average
cost per 1,000 gross ton miles of that company-not of the whole
Union Pacific system. The lines of the Oregon-Washington are located in three States with an aggregate of 2,218 miles of road.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

miles. In using the above composite figure in the determination of this issue the Department necessarily ignored, in the first place, the differences in the average
unit cost on the several systems; and then the differences
on each in the cost incident to the different classes of
traffic and articles of merchandise, and to the widely
varying conditions under which the transportation is
conducted. In this unit cost figure no account is taken
of the differences in unit cost dependent, among other
things, upon differences in the length of haul 5; in the
character of the commodity; in the configuration of the
country; in the density of the traffic; in the daily loaded
car movement; in the extent of the empty car movement; in the nature of the equipment employed; in the
extent to which the equipment is used; in the expenditures required for its maintenance. Main line and
branch line freight, interstate and intrastate, car load and
less than car load, are counted alike. The Department's
error was fundamental in its natuie. The use of this
factor in computing the operating costs of the log traffic
vitiated the whole process of reasoning by which the Department reached its conclusion.
The mere admission by an administrative tribunal of
matter which under the rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings would be deemed incompetent,
United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274,
288, or mere error in reasoning upon evidence introduced,
does not invalidate an order. But where rates found by
a regulatory body to be compensatory are attacked as
being confiscatory, courts may enquire into the method
by which its conclusion was reached. An order based
5 On the Northern Pacific the average length of haul of all its
intrastate traffic in Washington was 99 miles; of all its traffic in
Washington, interstate and intrastate, 142 miles; of all its traffic on
the whole system, 334 miles. Compare Shepard v. Northern Pacific
Ry., 184 Fed. 765, 781-2.

