PAY COPPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
369

373

Syllabus.

consider the qtiestion involved in Heike v. United States,
227 U. S. 131, whether the information given was beyond
the protection of the immunity provision because not of
an incriminating nature and but remotely, if in any way,
connected with the transactions forming the basis of the
later prosecution. The immediate question here is
whether, under this particular immunity provision, the
mere furnishing of information of whatever character
creates an immunity which bars the prosecution. Compare Tucker v. United States, 151 U. S. 164, 167-169.
The question is said to be one of statutory construction. But, upon the facts stated, it is clear that there
was no basis for the plea of immunity. The Act grants
immunity only when the person testifies or produces evidence "before the Commission in obedience to a subpoena issued by it." Sherwin and Schwarz did nothing
in obedience to a subpoena. None was issued. Whether
the judgment below was right for other reasons also, we
need not consider. The case is wholly unlike United
States v. Pardue, 294 Fed. 543.
Affirmed.
RAY CONSOLIDATED COPPER COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 443. Argued January 13, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.
1. The term "capital stock" has no fixed meaning in taxing statutes,
and must be interpreted in each case by reference to the context,
the nature, purpose and history of the statute, and by other aids to
construction. P. 376.
2. The Revenue Act of 1918 provides: "Every domestic corporation
shall pay annually a special excise tax with respect to carrying on
or doing business, equivalent to $1 for each.$1000 of so much ot
the fair average value of its capital stock for the preceding year
ending June 30 as is in.
excess of $5000. In estimating the value

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

of the capital stock the surplus and undivided profits shall be
included." Held:
(a) That "capital stock" here means the entire potentiality of the
corporation to profit by the exercise of its corporate franchise; and
the method for ascertaining the value, not being prescribed, is left
to the sound discretion of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
subject only to the obligation to consider every relevant fact.
P. 377.
(b) The net fair value of the corporate assets is clearly relevant;
and adoption of this, rather than the value of the outstanding
shares of stock as evinced by the average prices at which the
shares were sold on the stock exchange, was not arbitrary nor an
abuse of discretion. Id.
59 Ct. Cls. 686, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims denying a claim for recovery of the amount of an additional
special corporation excise tax, paid under protest.

Mr. Arthur A. Ballantine, with whom Messrs. Carroll
A. Wilson and George E. Cleary were on the brief, for
appellant.
The Solicitor General, with whom Messrs. Robert P.
Reeder and Fred K. Dyar, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The Revenue Act of 1918, February 24, 1919, c. 18,
Title X, ยง 1000 (a) (1), 40 Stat. 1057, 1126, provides:
"Every domestic corporation shall pay annually a special
excise tax with respect to carrying on or doing business,
equivalent to $1 for each $1000 of so much of the fair
average value of its capital stock for the preceding year
ending June 30 as is in excess of $5,000. In estimating
the value of the .capital stock the surplus and undivided

RAY COPPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
373

375

Opinion of the Court,.

profits shall be included." How the value shall be determined is the main question for decision.
Ray Consolidated Copper Company, a domestic corporation engaged in the business of mining and smelting, has
a capital stock of $15,771,790, divided into 1,577,179
shares of common stock of the par value of $10 each.
Under the above provision, the company filed, on July 30,
1920, with the appropriate collector of internal revenue a
return for the special tax for the year ending June 30,
1921, in which it reported that the fair average value of
its capital stock for the preceding year was $34,803,608.99.
The value so reported was arrived at by finding the average selling price of the stock on the New York Stock Exchange during the calendar year 1919 and multiplying
the price so found-about $22 a share-by the number of
shares outstanding. The stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange; was traded in almost daily; and the
aggregate number of shares so sold during the year
equalled nearly one-third of the total stock outstanding.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue refused to accept
the company's valuation; took into consideration for the
purpose of estimating the value of the capital stock,
among other things, the value of the mining property
theretofore established in connection with other federal
taxes; concluded that the fair value of the capital stock
considered as a whole was not materially less than the net
fair value of the assets; fixed the value of the capital
stock higher than the company had reported; and exacted
an additional tax. Refund being denied, this suit was
brought in the Court of Claims to recover the additional
amount paid. Before the trial the Commissioner refunded a, part of the additional tax. As to the balance,
that court upheld the assessment. 59 Ct. Cl. 686. The
case is here on appeal under ยง 242 of the Judicial Code.
The Company insists that the term "fair average value
of its capital stock" means fair average value of the ag-

376

OCTOBER TERTM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court..

26S U. S.

gregate shares of its stock and not the value of the corporate assets; that the fair average value of the shares,
based upon bona fide sales of the stock in reasonable volume, was correctly stated in its return; that the aggregate
value of the shares so determined by the fair average selling price of the individual shares must be adopted as the
single standard for determining the value of the capital
stock; that such determination cannot lawfully be modified by any consideration of the value of the corporation's
assets; that the Commissioner based his determination
upon the net fair value of the assets; and that the additional tax was, therefore, illegally assessed.
The tax is a special excise imposed on the privilege of
carrying on business in the form of a corporation. Congress might have measured the value of the privilege by
the net income of the year, as in the corporation tax,
Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 108, 174; by the
annual gross receipts, as in the sugar refiners' tax, Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; by the
amount of capital employed, as in the bankers' tax, Fidelity Title & Trust Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 304,
308; or by the fixed capitalization, as in the taxing acts of
many states. It might have taken as the measure, the
aggregate value of all of the outstanding shares of stock
and have directed that their value be computed by multiplying the average selling price, during the year, of a single share by the total number of shares outstanding.
Compare The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 209,
231. But Congress did none of these things. It declared
that the tax should be measured by the "fair average
value of its [the corporation's] capital stock." In so doing, it used a term which has no fixed meaning in taxing
statutes and it gave no directions for ascertaining such
value, except that in "estimating'" value "the surplus
and undivided profits shall be included."
As the term capital stock has no fixed significance, it
must be construed in a particular statute by reference to

RAY COPPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
373

377

Opinion of the Court.

the context., the nature and purpose of the statute, its
history and other aids to construction. We think that,
as here used, it means the entire potentiality of the corporation to profit by the exercise of its corporate franchise. Central Union. Trust Co. v. Edwards, 287 Fed.
324, 328. As the method to be pursued in ascertaining
the value is not prescribed, we think that it was left to
the sound judgment and discretion of the Commissioner,
subject only to the obligation to take into consideration
every relevant fact. Compare Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522, 540.
The capital stock of a corporation, its net assets, and
its shares of stock are entirely different things. Compare Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, 686; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136-137; Wright v.
Georgia R. R. & Banking Co., 216 U. S.420, 425; Des
Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S.103, 111.
The value of one bears no fixed or necessary relation to
the value of the other. The net fair value of the assets
was clearly a relevant fact bearing upon the value of the
capital stock. It does not appear that the Commissioner
refused to consider the selling price of the shares or other
factors. He may have given much consideration to the
selling price of the shares, and have concluded that, under
the conditions prevailing in the year 1920, the average
price at which relatively small lots were sold on the Stock
Exchange was not a fair indication of the value of the
capital stock. We cannot say that he acted arbitrarily
or abused. his discretion in concluding that "the fair
value of the capital stock considered as a whole is not
materially less than the net fair value of the assets."
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 555, 562.
In Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144, 162-3, where the provision here in-question was upheld as applied to a voluntary association without a fixed or designated share
capital, the Collector had assessed the tax by "taking the

