542

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

distribution the stockholders have the same proportional
interest of the same kind in essentially the same corporation.
Affirmed.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.

We think this cause falls within the' doctrine of Weiss
v. Steam, 265 U. S. 242, and that the judgment below

should be reversed. The practical result of the things
done was but the reorganization of a going concern. The
business and assets were not materially changed, and the
stockholder received nothing actually severed from his
original capital interest-nothing differing in substance
from what he already had.
Weiss v. Steam did not turn upon the relatively unimportant circumstance that the new and old corporations
were organized under the laws of the same State, but upon
the approved definition of income from capital as something severed therefrom and received by the taxpayer for
his separate use and benefit. Here stockholders got
nothing from the old business or assets except new statements of their undivided interests, and this, as we carefully pointed out, is not enough to create taxable income.
UNITED STATES v. GULF REFINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 40. Argued April 15, 16, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.
1. Under Jud. Code § 240, certiorari may be granted by this Court,
at the instance of the United States, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of conviction in a
criminal case and remanding the case to the District Court for a
new trial. P. 544.

UNITED STATES v. GULF REF. CO.
542

Counsel for Parties.

2. Where a commodity shipped in interstate commerce is included in
more than one tariff designation, that which is the more specific
will be held applicable; and where two descriptions and tariffs are
equally appropriate, the shipper is entitled to the one specifying
the lower rate. P. 546.
3. Evidence reviewed and held to establish that the shipments in
question were not "gasoline" but "naphtha ", and insufficient to
prove that they were not "unrefined naphtha ", within the meaning
of a railroad tariff applicable. P. 546.
4. A lower rate properly may be applied to a product shipped in
an unfinished condition in the course of manufacture than that
applicable to it when finished. P. 548.
5. In a prosecution of a corporation under the Elkins Act on the
ground that it received concessions through shipping its petroleum
product as "unrefined naphtha" and not as "gasoline ", under a
tariff allowing a lower rate for the one than for the other, evidence
of other and contemporaneous shipments of the same product to
other places as "gasoline" under other tariffs offering no rate on
"unrefined naphtha" had no tendency to prove that the product
was not "unrefined naphtha" within the meaning of the tariff in
question. P. 549.
6. Nor in such case, did description of the shipments as "gasoline ",
in compliance with regulations made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission under the Transportation of Explosives Act requiring
such and similar products to be shipped as "gasoline, casinghead
gasoline or casinghead naphtha ", have a tendency to prove, or
amount to an admission by the defendant, that the gasoline rate
was applicable or that the shipments were not "unrefined naphtha"
within the meaning of the tariff, since the purpose of those regulations was to require a disclosure of the character of the shipments
having regard not to rates but to the dangers to be guarded
against. P. 550.
284 Fed. 90, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing a conviction under the Elkins Act and
remanding the case with directions to grant a new trial.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for. the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Messrs. R. L. Batts and F. M. Swacker, with whom
Messrs. H. L. Stone, Jr., and James B. Diggs were on the
briefs, for respondents.
Mr. John F. Finerty, filed a brief as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court.
MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent was convicted in the district court for the
eastern district of Oklahoma on 99 counts, charging that
it received concessions and discrimination in rates on gasoline shipped by the Gypsy Oil Company between December 2, 1916, and March 12, 1919, from Keifer, Drumright
and Jenks, Oklahoma, to defendant's refinery at Port
Arthur, Texas, in violation of the Elkins Act of February
19, 1903, c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, as amended by the Act of
June 29, 1906, § 2, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 587. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and remanded
the case with directions to grant a new trial. 284 Fed. 90.
This Court granted a writ of certiorari. § 240, Judicial
Code. 262 U. S. 738.
Defendant, insisting that this Court is without jurisdiction, made a motion to dismiss the writ. The determination of the matter was postponed to the hearing on
the merits. In United States v. Dickinson, (1909) 213
U. S. 92, it was held that certiorari could not be granted
in a criminal case at the instance of the United States.
Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828. But that
act was modified by the Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36
Stat. 1087, 1157, being § 240, Judicial Code, which is as
follows: "In any case, civil or criminal, in which the
judgment or decree of the circuit court of appeals is made
final by the provisions of this Title, it shall be competent
f6r the Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise, upon the petition of any party thereto, any such case
to be certified to the Supreme Court for its review and

UNITED STATES v. GULF REF. CO.
542

Opinion of the Court.

determination, with the same power and authority in the
case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ of error
to the Supreme Court." The words italicized above were
added to the provisions of the Act of 1891. The phrase
" upon the petition of any party thereto" is not limited
by the context. The language, circumstances and history
of the enactment make clear the intent of Congress to
give this Court jurisdiction on the petition of the United
States to bring up criminal cases, on writ of certiorari.
See 46 Congressional Record, pp. 2134, 4001. And the
petition may be granted, notwithstanding the Circuit
Court of Appeals remanded the case for a new trial and
did not render a final judgment therein. American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Railway, 148 U. S.372, 385;
Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S.506, 513. The motion to
dismiss the writ is overruled.
The Circuit Court of Appeals said (p. 102): "It is our
opinion that when all competent and relevant proof in
the case is given a fair and impartial consideration the
conclusion that the verdict is without support, is inevitable," and held that the district court erred in denying
defendant's motion that a verdict be directed in its favor.
The United States asserts that this was error.
The pertinent language of the act, defining the offense
charged, is as follows: ". . . It shall be unlawful for
any . . . corporation . . . to solicit, accept or
receive any rebate, concession, or discrimination in respect
to the transportation of any property in interstate or
. whereby
foreign commerce by any common carrier .
any such property shall by any device whatever be transported at a less rate than that named in the tariffs published and filed by such carrier . . . or whereby any
other advantage is given or discrimination is practiced."
(34 Stat. 587.) The gist of each count is that the Gypsy
Oil Company delivered gasoline to interstate carriers by

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

railroad at places in Oklahoma,-Keifer, Drumright and
Jenks,-for transportation to Port Arthur, Texas, there
to be delivered to defendant; and that defendant knowingly did accept and receive from the carriers a concession
or discrimination in respect of such transportation,
whereby the property was transported at a rate substantially less than the lawful rate for gasoline. It is not
alleged what defendant represented the commodity to be
or what, if any, tariff was applied. It was shown at the
trial that all shipments referred to in the indictment were
made as "unrefined naphtha", under tariffs specifying
rates therefor substantially lower than the contempora
neous rates on gasoline between the sane points. The
rates then in force from Keifer are illustrative. They
were "Oils: Petroleum Oil and its Products
listed under the head of 'Petroleum and Petroleum
Products' ", 39 cents per 100 pounds; " Gasoline in tank
cars," 33 cents, and "Unrefined Naphtha in tank cars
19/_2 cents.
Where a commodity shipped is included in more than
one tariff designation, that which is more specific will be
'held applicable. U. S. IndustrialAlcohol v. Director General, 68 I. C. C. 389, 392; Augusta Veneer Co. v. Southern
Ry. Co., 41 I. C. C. 414, 416. And where two descriptions
and tariffs are equally appropriate, the shipper is entitled
to have applied the one specifying the lower rates. Ohio
Foundry Co. v. P., C., C. .& St. L. Ry. Co., 19 I. C. C. 65,
67; United Verde Copper Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 48
I. C. C. 663. It follows that, if the property in question
properly might have been described either as gasoline or
as unrefined naphtha, the lower rate was lawfully applied,
and defendant was not guilty. And the burden was on
the United States to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that
the property so shipped was gasoline and was not unrefined naphtha.
The substance of the evidence as to whether the shipments complained of were gasoline or unrefined naphtha

UNITED STATES v. GULF REF. CO.
542

Opinion of the Court.

is given in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and need not be repeated here. The first distillation of
crude oil takes off the elements more volatile than kerosene, and these taken together are known as the" naphtha
fraction ". After treatment with sulphuric acid, this
fraction is divided by further distillation into three products,-gasoline, the lightest, benzine, the intermediate, and
naphtha, which is called "painter's naphtha ", the
heaviest. The gravity of such naphtha is around 54
degrees (Baum6). Casinghead gasoline is produced by
compression of gases which come from oil wells. Like the
lighter ends or elements first coming off in the distillation
of crude oil, casinghead gasoline is highly volatile and
dangerous to handle. Its gravity is about 88 to 90 degrees and its vapor tension is froni 20 to 30 pounds to the
square inch. During the period in question some of the
painter's naphtha produced at defendant's refinery was
shipped from Port Arthur in tank cars to the casinghead
gasoline compression plants of the Gypsy Company at
Keifer and Drumright, there to be blended,-about one
part naphtha. to two parts casinghead gasoline. The gravity of the product was about 70 to 75, and its vapor tension
less than 10 pounds per square inch. At Jenks, casinghead gasoline was not so blended, but it was subjected to
a treatment called "weathering ", which lowered specific
gravity and reduced vapor tension to substantially the
same extent as was effected by the blending with painter's
naphtha. The shipment referred to in each count was
casinghead gasoline so blended or weathered. Such reduction of specific gravity and vapor tension made permissible its transportation in tank cars, under the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized
by the Transportation of Explosives Act. Act of March
4, 1909, § 233, 35 Stat. 1088, 1134, amending act of May
30, 1908, § 2, c. 234, 35 Stat. 554. Regulations for the
Transportation of Explosives and Other Dangerous Ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tides, effective October 1, 1914, revised July 15, 1918.*
There is involved no claim on the part of the United
States that there was any violation of the act or
regulations.
The tariff on unrefined naphtha, under which the shipments complained of were made, became effective December 2, 1916. Prior to that, the blended product was
shipped from Keifer and Drumright to defendant's refinery at the gasoline rate. The compression plant at
Jenks was not put in operation until after that date.
None of the products so shipped as unrefined naphtha
was sent to the market or sold to be used as gasoline. All
was used at defendant's refinery and mixed or blended
with other products to. make gasoline which defendant
sold; it constituted from five to twenty-five per cent. of
such gasoline. The casinghead gasoline, before or after
such' blending or weathering, did not correspond with
specifications for any gasoline sold in the market for use
as fuel for motor engines and the like. The evidence was
not sufficient to sustain a finding that the casinghead gasoline in question was suitable for ordinary or general use as
fuel for such engines. And, on a consideration of all the
evidence, it must be held to have been established conclusively that such substance was not so used and was not
reasonably suitable for such use. It follows, therefore,
that, whatever it may be called, the product was not the
familiar article of commerce sold as gasoline.
A lower rate properly may be applied to a product when
in an unfinished condition than that applicable to it when
finished. In National Refining Company v. M. K. & T.
Ry., (1912) 23 I. C. C. 527, it was held that rates applicable to refined oil were excessive when applied to carload
shipments of the so-called lighter ends of petroleum
* This

act has since been further amended (Act of March 4, 1921,

c. 172, 41 Stat. 1444); and the Interstate Commerce Commission
prescribed regulations, effective January 1, 1923.

UNITED STATES v. GULF REF. CO.
542

Opinion of the Court.

which had been separated from crude oil by a skimming
process,-that is, by distillation sufficient to take off the
more highly volatile elements,-but which was useless for
commercial purposes until a further process of refinement
had been undergone; and that a reasonable rate on such
product was not more than two cents per hundred pounds
in excess of the rates contemporaneously applicable to
crude oil. Subsequent to this decision, tariffs covering
"unrefined naphtha" were put in effect on the lines from
Muskogee, Oklahoma, to Coffeyville, Kansas, and from
Oklahoma producing points to Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The product in that case was similar to the casinghead
gasoline here in question. Both included the lighter ends
or more volatile elements of crude oil; they were unfinished products and differed from ordinary gasoline ofcommerce in like respects. Presumably, this decision
and these tariffs were known to and considered by the
shipper and carriers when the tariff on unrefined naphtha
was published. And before that tariff was put in, defendant's representative applied by letter to the carriers
for a "seventeen cent rate crude unfinished naphtha"
from Port Arthur to Keifer and from Keifer to Port
Arthur. The carrier's representative testified that they
were requested "to put in a rate on crude naphtha or
unrefined naphtha or unfinished naphtha ", and that he
did not recall which. The United States suggests that
the shipper did not disclose to the carrier that it intended
to ship the product here in question under the proposed
tariff. But the evidence negatives any purpose to deceive or defraud the carriers and shows that the purpose
of the carrier was to put in a tariff covering the unfinished
product referred to in the negotiations as crude unfinished
naphtha, crude naphtha, unrefined naphtha and unfinished naphtha.
The United States introduced evidence to show contemporaneous shipments by the Gypsy Oil Company of

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

such casinghead gasoline to Port Arthur billed as unrefined naphtha and to Pittsburg billed as gasoline, and also
shipments by that company and others of the same product to other places, billed as gasoline. But it was not
shown that the carriers had published any tariff covering
unrefined naphtha to Pittsburg or the other points. In
the absence of a rate on unrefined naphtha, such shipments are without significance. There was nothing to
show, and no reason to presume, that all classifications
had been made that could be made in respect of the
numerous products of petroleum, and of those referred to
in the industry as gasoline of one kind or another. There
being no rate on unrefined naphtha or opportunity to
choose between the gasoline rate and some other rate,
shipments of the product as gasoline had no probative
value or tendency to show that the product was not fairly
described by and included within the phrase "unrefined
naphtha" in the tariff in question.
The regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission, revised July 15, 1918, required liquid condensates
from natural gas or from casinghead gas of oil wells, alone
or blended with other petroleum products, having a vapor
pressure of not more than ten pounds per square inch, to
be shipped as "gasoline, casinghead gasoline, or casinghead naphtha". Unrefined naphtha was not mentioned.
The description of the shipments as gasoline under these
regulations had no tendency to show that the tariff rate
on unrefined naphtha was not applicable. The purpose
of the regulations was to require a disclosure of the character of the shipment, having regard not to rates but
to the dangers to be guarded against. It was not an
admission on the part of the defendant that the gasoline rate was applicable or that the shipments were not
unrefined naphtha within the meaning of the tariff. The
language of the regulation illustrates the use of the word
"naphtha" to include the casinghead product.

UNITED STATES v. GULF REF. CO.
542

Opinion of the Court.

"Naphtha" is a generic term and embraces the lighter
or more volatile parts of crude oil down to and sometimes
including kerosene. This takes in all the elements of
finished gasoline. The words "naphtha" and "gasoline"
are often used interchangeably to include the unfinished
product of which the gasoline of commerce is made. The
thing shipped was an unfinished product. It was taken
to Port Arthur to be used to make gasoline. The evidence required a finding that it was naphtha. The insistence of the United States is that it was not "unrefined ". The processes for refining crude oil in the production of gasoline include the separation and combining
of various elements of the crude product, and are not
limited to the elimination of impurities. The evidence
is not sufficient to sustain a finding that the making of
gasoline of commerce by the use of the blended or
weathered casinghead gasoline shipped to Port Arthur
did not involve refining, properly so-called. But even if
the process was, as contended by the United States, a
finishing and not a refining process, it is clear that the
phrase "unrefined naphtha" in the tariff in question was
not misleading and did not contribute to any deception
or fraud. The thing shipped was not ordinary gasoline,
and it was lawful to distinguish it by tariff designation
and to make the specified rate applicable. The words
employed describe the product with sufficient accuracy.
The evidence was not sufficient to sustain a finding that
the shipments in question were not unrefined naphtha.
Motion to dismiss denied
Judgment affirmed.

