336

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

commerce is different or less because they are paid through
retention of advance partial payments made under definite contracts negotiated by them. Nor can we accept
the theory that an expressed purpose to prevent possible
frauds is enough to justify legislation which really interferes with the free flow of legitimate interstate commerce.
See Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189.

The decree of the court below must be reversed. The
cause will be remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

CHEUNG SUM SHEE ET AL. v. NAGLE,
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH

No. 769.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 17, 20, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. Alien Chinese wives and minor children, of Chinese merchants
lawfully domiciled in the United States, are not mandatorily excluded from admission by the Immigration Act of 1924, which provides that "no alien ineligible to citizenship shall be admitted to
the United States unless such alien is . . . not an immigrant, as

defined in Section 3 ", and in that section classifies as a nonimmigrant "an alien entitled to enter the United States solely to
carry on trade under and in pursuance of the provisions of a
present existing treaty of commerce and navigation." P. 344.
2. Such wives and children were guaranteed the right of entry by
the Treaty of 1880. United States v. Mrs. Gue Lim, 176 U. S.
459. Id.
3. The Act of 1924 should be construed with a view to preserving
this treaty right; and the legislative history and general terms of
the act permit this. P. 345.
4. Such aliens, being in effect specified by the act itself as "nonimmigrants ", are not barred by § 5, which declares that an alien
not particularly specified in the act as a non-quota immigrant or
non-immigrant shall not be admitted as such "by reason of rela-

CHEUNG SUM SHEE v. NAGLE.
336

Argument for Appellee.

tionship to any individual who is so specified or by reason of being
excepted from the operation of any other law regulating or forbidding immigration." P. 346.
QUESTION certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
arising on the review of a decision of the District Court,
(2 Fed. (2d) 995,) which refused relief by habeas corpus to
Chinese aliens held for deportation by the immigration
authorities.

Mr. Frederick D. McKenney and Mr. George A. McGowan, with whom Messrs. John L. McNab, Jackson H.
Ralston, Roger O'Donnell, George W. Hott, W. J. Peters,
M. Walton Henry, J. P. Fallon, 0. P. Stidger, W. G.
Becktell, and Gaston Straus were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
the Solicitor General was on the brief, for appellee.
There is a difference of opinion between the two departments of the Government which are directly concerned with the administration of the Act. The Department of Labor is of opinion that the Act requires the
exclusion of these appellants. The Department of State
is of opinion that the Act and the Treaty together require
their admission. In view of the importance of this case,
counsel for the Government feel it their duty to submit
reasons in support of both opinions. Accordingly, in
their brief is set forth the reasoning in support of the
exclusion theory maintained by the Department of
Labor; in an appendix, the opposing arguments of the
State Department, as embodied in a memorandum
prepared by the Solicitor for that Department. The
appellants are clearly "aliens ineligible to citizenship." They are therefore excluded by § 13(c) of the
Act, unless they can establish their right to enter as
"treaty merchants" under § 3(6). Section 3(6) grants

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellee.

268 U. S.

admission to "an alien entitled to enter the United States
solely to carry on trade under and in pursuance of the
provisions of a present existing treaty of commerce and
navigation." Can it be said that the wife or the minor
child of a merchant comes here" solely to carry on trade "?
The agent of a merchant is not himself entitled to enter
as a merchant. Tulsidas v. Insular Collector, 262 U. S.
258. And this Court in the Gue Lim Case did not hold
that the wife of a merchant was entitled to enter "solely
to carry on trade," but merely decided that she was entitled to enter solely to reside with her husband, as she
then had the right to do. The purpose of § 3(6) was to
take away that right by granting the right of entry only
to actual merchants, and not, as formerly, to merchants
and their families. Any other construction would deprive
the section of its meaning. At the time when the Gue
Lim decision was rendered, no statutory definition existed
of the term "merchant "; and the Court accordingly construed the language of the treaty as including both merchants and their families. The Court might have decided
the aue Lim Case differently had § 3(6) then been in
existence. It was inserted at the request of the Secretary of State, for the purpose of safeguarding treaty
rights, but in its final form is very different from the
provision which the Secretary originally suggested; and
it is possible that the effect of the alteration is to exclude
the wives and children of merchants. Whatever might
have been the result had Congress enacted, totidem verbis,
either of the Secretary's suggestions, it is submitted that
the case must be judged upon the law as it is written.
The Committee Report indicates that Congress intended
to "tie the exemptions to those persons properly exempted
and entitled to enter the United States solely to carry on
trade under and in pursuance of all existing treaties of
commerce and navigation." The effect of § 3(6), as actually passed by Congress, may be to deny the right of

CHEUNG SUM SHEE v. NAGLE.
336

Argument for Appellee.

entry to all who do not come here "solely to carry on
trade." In opposition to this view counsel cite the case
of Anderson v. War, 138 U. S. 694, 706, and other cases
holding that the domicil of the husband is the domicil of
the wife, and that the identity of the wife is, in a sense,
merged in that of the husband. But has not this theory
lost much of its force since the enactment of the Act of
September 22, 1922, c. 411, 42 Stat. 1021, under which the
citizenship of the wife no longer follows that of the husband? And the Immigration Acts often operate to prevent husband and wife from residing together in this
country. Yet this Court, when appealed to on the ground
of hardship, has declined to interfere. Commisisoner of
Immigration.v. Gottlieb, 265 U. S. 310; Chung Fook v.
White, 264 U. S.443; Yee Won v. White, 256 U. S.399.
In the next place § 5 of the Act provides "An alien who
is not particularly specified in this Act as a non-quota
immigrant or a non-immigrant shall not be admitted as
a non-quota immigrant or a non-immigrant by reason of
relationship to any individual who is so specified or by
reason of being excepted from the operation of any other
law regulating or forbidding immigration." It may well
be that the appellants have no right of entry in and of
themselves; their right of entry is dependent, not upon
their own status, but upon that of their husbands or
fathers. And if that is so, then they are excluded by the
operation of § 5. Congress has been careful to grant admission to the families of Chinese government officials
§ 3(1), and to the families of Chinese clergymen or professors §§ 4(d), 13(c) (2) ; and from this fact it may be
inferred that Congress did not intend to grant admission
to the families of Chinese merchants, according to the
maxim expressio unius. Lapinav. Williams, 232 U. S.78,
92; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S.95, 103. It is
conceded that a strong presumption exists in favor of
maintaining treaty rights. The right of these appellants

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Views of Department of State.

268 U1. S.

to enter this country is a right conferred, if not by the
letter of the treaty, at least by the treaty as interpreted
by this Court. But it is submitted that even treaty rights
can not prevail against the language of the Immigration
Act of 1924. And under §§ 5 and 13(c) of that Act, it is
doubtful whether these appellants can enter.
Such is the contention of the Department of Labor;
but this Court should also consider the careful and wellreasoned opinion of the Solicitor for the Department of
State, before answering the question.
The following is excerpted from a memorandum by
Hon. Charles Cheney Hyde, Solicitor for the State Department, which was appended to the brief of appellee:
Wives and minor children of alien merchants entering
the United States for purposes of trade and commerce
under a present existing treaty of the United States are
themselves clothed with a treaty right to enter. The
courts of the United States, when interpreting the treaties
of their country, act on the assumption that it was the
design of the contracting parties not to contravene principles of morality and fairness, Ubeda v. Zialcita, 226
U. S. 452, 454; that their agreement should be interpreted
"in a spirit of uberrima fides, and in a manner to carry
out its manifest purpose," Tucker v. Alexandroif, 183
U. S. 424, 437; and that its terms should be liberally
construed, Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S. 332, 342; Haunstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; Geofroy y. Riggs, 133
U. S. 258; Tucker v. Alexandroif, supra.
The commercial treaties of the United States providing
for the entrance and residence of nationals of one contracting party into the territories of the other for the
purposes of trade have not made mention of the wives
and minor children of such individuals. It seems to have
been taken for granted that there is such unity of interest
in the individual family that the head thereof, if given

CHEUNG SUM SHEE v. NAGLE.
336

Views of Department of State.

the right to enter a country for purposes of trade, is the
representative of an entity embracing his wife and children who are not to be dissociated from him. This conclusion is fortified by the fact that treaties with Japan,
China, and other countries contemplate prolonged and
undetermined residence for the purposes of trade, the
occupation of dwellings, and by necessary inference the
establishihent of homes. [Citing treaties.]
It would scarcely be suggested that each of these
treaties should be interpreted differently in accordance
with the exact words used. Such literal construction
could not give effect to the intent of the contracting
parties, nor cbuld it avail to carry out the general purposes
for which such treaties are concluded. It is believed that
the varying terms of all these treaties may be properly
paraphrased thus: "The contracting parties agree that
their citizens and subjects, respectively, shall have a right
to come into the territories of the other for the purpose
of carrying on international trade, and they are accorded
the privilege of remaining indefinitely in the country, of
establishing their homes and of bringing with them for
this purpose the members of their families so long as they
are here for that purpose."
An examination of the original signed copy of the treaty
of 1880 with China, in the archives of the Department
of State, reveals that there is nothing therein which can
be regarded as a title, although in Malloy's compilation
(Vol. 1, p. 237) it is given the caption, "Immigration
Treaty." In so far as the Chinese treaty refers to merchants, and provides for their entry into the United States,
it seems entirely reasonable and proper to consider it as
a "treaty of commerce and navigation." It would be unreasonable to assume in the absence of convincing evidence that the United States and Japan, for example,
sought, on the one hand, to give traders the right to enter,
remain, and reside for an indefinite period for the purposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Views of Department of State.

268 U. S.

of trade, and, on the other, to isolate them while exercising that privilege from their wives and minor children.
An important social policy well recognized in the
Anglo-American system lies at the foundation of this
principle. Our courts have recognized the identity of
interest which exists between husband and wife. The
wife is an integral part of the husband's sphere of activity.
Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S.694. The Supreme Court of
the United States in deciding United States v. Mrs. Gue
Lim, 176 U. S. 459, interpreted the treaty between the
United States and China of November 17, 1880 (22 Stat.
826), in a manner that sustains this conclusion. See In
re Chung Toy Ho, 42 Fed. 398; Ex Parte"Goon Dip, 1
Fed. (2d) 811; Ex Parte So Hakp Yon, 1 Fed. (2d)
814; Yee Won v. White, 256 U. S. 399; Woo Hoo v.
White, 243 Fed. 541; see also In re Chin Hem Shu, D. C.
Mass., Dec. 11, 1924 (unreported).
It is never to be supposed that an Act of Congress overrides the provisions of a treaty unless its words are so
clear that there is no escape from that conclusion. Chew
Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536. Section 3(6) of
the Immigration Act of 1924 classifies as a non-immigrant
"an alien entitled to enter the United States solely to
carry on trade under and in pursuance of the provisions
of a present existing treaty of Commerce and Navigation." Section 13(c) provides that "no alien ineligible
to citizenship shall be admitted to the United States
unless such alien . . . is not an immigrant as defined in
Section 3." If we assume that aside from the Act wives
and minor children of merchants are given by the treaty
a right to enter the United States, it is obvious that no
argument for their exclusion under the Act could arise
except for the words "solely to carry on trade," which
appear in § 3(6). It is argued that this phrase was
directed against the wives and children of merchants, on
the ground that any other construction deprives this
phrase of all meaning. However, such is not the case.

CHEUNG SUM SHEE v. NAGLE.
336

Opinion of the Court.

In view of its legislative history, it is believed that
this phraseology was adopted with a desire to grant full
rights to persons entitled to enter under treaties of commerce and navigation-to show that the treaty provisions
referred to were only those provisions respecting privileges of commerce and navigation, and that the class
of persons referred to was the merchant class within the
scope of those provisions.
There is another apparent reason for the use of the
phrase "solely to carry on trade" as used in § 3(6).
The various treaties of commerce and navigation do not
refer exclusively to merchants. A right of entry is also
accorded to ships (and necessarily to their crews) and to
temporary visitors. Congress had already provided for
alien seamen in § 19 of the Act and for visitors or travelers in § 3(2). The phrasing of § 3(6) seems to have
been adopted partly to avoid a conflict with or repetition
of §§ 3(2) and 19, and was designedly supplemental
thereto. The evidence is abundant and convincing that
Congress itself not only had no desire to curtail the treaty
right, but also deliberately undertook to respect the treaty
right to enter of all who were clothed therewith.
Mr. Henry W. Taft filed a brief as amicus curiae by
special leave of Court.
Mu. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners are alien wives and minor children of resident Chinese merchants lawfully domiciled within the
United States. They departed from China on the Steamship President Lincoln, and upon arrival at San Francisco,
July 11, 1924, sought permanent admission to the United
States. The Secretary of Labor denied their applications
and gave the following reasons therefor"Neither the mercantile status of the husband and
father, nor the applicant's relationship to him, has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

investigated for the reason that even if it were conceded
that both these elements exist the applicants would be
inadmissible as a matter of law. This is made necessary
because of the inhibition against their coming to the
United States as found in Paragraph (c) of Section 13 and
that portion of Section 5 which reads as follows: 'An
alien who is not particularly specified in this Act as a nonquota immigrant or a non-immigrant shall not be admitted
as a non-quota immigrant or a non-immigrant by reason
of relationship to any individual who is so specified or by
reason of being excepted from the operation of any other
law regulating or forbidding immigration.'
The court below has inquired, Jud. Code § 239: "Are
the alien Chinese wives and minor children of Chinese
merchants who were lawfully domiciled within the United
States prior to July 1st, 1924, such wives and minor children now applying for admission, mandatorily excluded
from the United States under the provisions of the Immigration Act of 1924?"
Prior to July 1, 1924, petitioners, if otherwise unobjectionable, might have been admitted notwithstanding their
race and nationality. United States v. Mrs. Gue Lim,
176 U. S.459, 466, 468; Yee Won v. White, 256 U. S.399,
400, 401. But it is said they are absolutely excluded by
the "Act to limit the immigration of aliens into the United
States, and for other purposes," approved May 26, 1924, c.
190, 43 Stat. 153, applicable provisions of which follow"Sec. 13. . . . (c) No alien ineligible to citizenship shall be admitted to the United States unless such
alien (1) is admissible as a non-quota immigrant under the
provisions of subdivision (b), (d), or (e) of section 4, or
(2) is the wife, or the unmarried child under 18 years of
age, of an immigrant admissible under such subdivision
(d), and is accompanying or following to join him, or (3)
is not an immigrant as defined in section 3."
"Sec. 3. When used in this Act the term 'immigrant'
means any alien departing from any place outside the

CHEUNG SUM SHEE v. NAGLE.
336

Opinion of the Court.

United States destined for the United States, except
(6) an alien entitled to enter the United States
solely to carry on trade under and in pursuance of the
provisions of a present existing treaty of commerce and
navigation."
"Sec. 5. When used in this Act the term ' quota immi,grant' means any immigrant who is not a non-quota immigrant. An alien who is not particularly specified in
this Act as a non-quota immigrant or a non-immigrant
shall not be admitted as a non-quota immigrant or a nonimmigrant by reason of relationship to any individual
who is so specified or by reason of being excepted from the
operation of any other law regulating or forbidding immigration."
The present existing treaty of commerce and navigation
with China., dated November 17, 1880, 22 Stat. 826, 827,
provides"Article II. Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the
United States as teachers, students, merchants or from
curiosity, together with their body and household servants,
and Chinese laborers who are now in the United States
shall be allowed to go and come of their own free will and
accord, and shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities, and exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation."
An alien entitled to enter the United States "solely to
carry on trade" under an existing treaty of commerce and
navigation is not an immigrant within the meaning of
the Act, § 3(6), and therefore is not absolutely excluded
by § 13.
The wives and minor children of resident Chinese merchants were guaranteed the right of entry by the treaty
of 1880 and certainly possessed it prior to July first when
the present Immigration Act became effective. United
States v. Mrs. Gue Lim, supra. That Act must be construed with the view to preserve treaty rights unless clearly

