OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

below treated the claim of the Railway Company against
the Bank as acquired by the defendant after the insolvency. The defendant, however, contends that upon
its payment to the Railway Company its subrogation related back to the date of its contract; and we will assume
for purposes of argument that this is true. But suppose
it is, the right of the Railway Company was simply that
of a depositor, a right to share with other unsecured
creditors in the assets of the Bank, of which the bond
now in suit was a part. There would be no equity in
allowing the Railway Company a special claim against
this bond. We will assume that if the Railway Company
had insured the honesty of the Bank's officers the Bank
might have offset the obligation of the company against
its claim as a depositor. But it is impossible to treat the
succession of the defendant to the Railway Company's
claim as effecting such an absolute identification with the
Railway Company that one and the same person insured
the Bank and made the deposits. The doctrine of relation "is a legal fiction invented to promote the ends of
justice. . . . It is never allowed to defeat the collateral
rights of third persons, lawfully acquired." Johnston
v. Jones, 1 Black, 209, 221.
Judgment affirmed.
LEWELLYN, FORMER COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. FRICK ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 681.

Argued April 16, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.

1. Acts of Congress are to be construed, if possible, so as to avoid
grave doubts of their constitutionality. P. 251.
2. The provisions of the Revenue Act of February 24, 1919, purporting to include policies insuring the life of a decedent in the

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

239

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

gross value of his estate as a basis for fixing the transfer tax thereon, though the policies be payable to beneficiaries other than the
estate, and allowing the executor to recover from such beneficiaries
their proportions of such tax and making them personally responsible therefor if not paid when due, are to be construed as inapplicable to transactions antedating the passage of the act. P. 251.
3. A declaration in an act that a provision in it shall be retroactive helps the conclusion that the same provision in an earlier act,
lacking such declaration, was not retroactive. P. 252.
298 Fed. 803, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment recovered in the District Court
by the defendants in error in an action to recover the
amount of taxes collected by duress.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General, Messrs. Nelson
T. Hartson Solicitor of Internal Revenue, and Merrill
E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Section 402 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1918 provides
a reasonable measure of an excise tax imposed upon a
transmission of a decedent's property by death. The tax
is not a direct tax but an excise measured by the value of
the net estate. New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S.
345; Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258 U. S. 384; Edwards v.
Slocum, 264 U. S. 61; Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47;
United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632. Congress
has provided a measure for that tax based not solely upon
the transfer of the decedent's property, but upon transactions, whether transfers from a decedent or not, which
accomplished the same results as testamentary dispositions would accomplish. Pennsylvania Company v.
Lederer, 292 Fed. 629; McElligott v. Kissam, 275 Fed.
545; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Winthrop, 238 N. Y.
488. A measure which bears a reasonable relation to the
subject matter of the tax is constitutional although the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

property affording the measure could not itself be taxed.
Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co. 220 U. S. 107; Greinerv. Leweltyn, supra; Plummer
v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; United States v. Perkins, 163
U. S. 625; Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Bullem v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625. The measure of the tax bears a
reasonable and proper relation to the occasion of the tax.
Penn,Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Lederer, 252 U. S. 523.
It can hardly be questioned that a deposit by A in a
Savings Bank to be paid with accumulations to B on A's
death would constitute a gift intended to take effect in
possession or enjoyment at or after A's death, and therefore be properly included in A's gross estate under § 402
(c) of the Act. Shukert v. Allen, 300 Fed. 754. )ifferences between a savings deposit and the taking out of a
life insurance policy on one's own life for the benefit of
another, are superficial, when used to differentiate such a
contract from a gift intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after death. It is, of course, true
that the beneficiary has a vested interest in the policy.
But. the ownership of the policy as such is worthless. Its
only value is the assurance that at the death of the insured a certain sum will be paid. There is no true
"possession or enjoyment " of a policy. The possession
or enjoyment attaches when, and only when, the money
is paid. It is held that gifts are taxable, regardless of
the vesting of title or of the right to future enjoyment, if
the actual enjoyment of the property which comprised the
present right to the earnings, income, and avails thereof
is postponed until the donor's death. People v. Kellcy,
218 Ill. 509; Re Cornell, 170 N. Y. 423; State v. Probate
Court, 102 Minn. 268; American Bd. Comm'rs v. Bugbee,
98 N. J. L. 84, 118 Atl. 700; People v. Shaffer, 291 Ill.
142; People v. Danks, 289 Ill. 542; In re Felton'sEstate,
176 Cal. 663; Harberv. Whelchel, 156 Ga. 601.
Assuming for the purposes of argument that the transfer of title to the insurance policies is the subject of the

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tax, the act is not unconstitutional. New York Trust
Co. v. Eisner, supra; Knowlton. v. Moore, supra; Cahen
v. Brewster, 203 U. S. 543; Stockdale v. The Insurance
Companies, 20 Wall. 323; Billings v. United States, 232
U. S. 261; Magoun v. Ill. Trust & Say. Bank, 170 U. S.
283; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 145, 158,
169; Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, 536. The provisions effecting the collection of the tax do not affect its
nature or render the act unconstitutional. There is nothing to indicate that any change in the nature of the tax
was contemplated; none of the. sect-ions concern the imposition of the tax; they are merely details deemed
proper for the effectual and practical operation of the
law. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; In re Inman's Estate, 101 Ore. 182, 199 Pac. 615. The matter of who
pays the tax is not primarily important. It is a matter which does not concern the Government. New York
Trust Co. v. Eisner, supra; Edwards v. Slocum, 264
U. S. 61.
State cases holding retroactive excise laws unconstitutional are not in point. In the first place, such cases are
decided under constitutional restrictions applicable to
States but not to Congress. A State may not so legislate,
whether in the form of taxation or otherwise, as to impair a vested right. To do so is to violate the constitutional limitations which prohibit the State from impairing
the obligations of a contract. It is doubtful that this
limitation prevents the imposition of a retroactive excise
by a State. Nickel v. Cole, 256 U. S. 222. Certainly
there is no such limitation upon the power of Congress.
Its power to tax is exhaustive, and if the imposition be a
tax, then, although it impair the obligations of contracts
or interfere with vested rights, it is, neverthless, valid.
License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; United States v. Singer,
15 Wall. 111; Knowlton v. Moore, supra; Patton v.
Brady, 184 U. S. 608; Mc Cray v. United States, 195 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

27; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; Billings v. United
States, supra; Brushaber v. Union Pac. R. R. Co. 240
U. S. 1; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86.
The statute by its expressed words does not tax the
transfer of policies. Furthermore, neither the policies
nor their value are included in the gross estate. Their
transfer, issuance, or assignment are entirely immaterial.
What is included is the "amount receivable "-the
money. Regardless of who owned the policies at the date
of Mr. Frick's death, the moneys received were in substance the decedent's money, for it was the decedent's
money that purchased the right to receive them, and
that right was contingent upon the decedent's death.
The amounts thus received were included under the
statute, whether received by the beneficiaries or by the
estate, the only difference being that when received by
beneficiaries a part is exempt. The correct theory is that
the decedent makes a gift, not of the policy but of his
money (invested in insurance, it is true), and the gift is
not complete until the money is received. For the purpose of measuring or levying a tax upon the transfer of
the net estate, the moneys received by Mrs. and Miss
Frick were a part of the Frick estate. They were accumulated or purchased by Henry C. Frick in his lifetime. The
right to their possession and enjoyment was generated
by his death precisely the same as the right to possession
and enjoyment of a trust estate created by a testator to
take effect upon his death is so generated. One can not
receive money or property unless another part with it.
A receipt is a part of a transfer. These moneys were in
fact transferred after and because of Mr. Frick's death
from the insurance companies to his wife and daughter.
The statute does not say when the transfer shall occur,
or from and to whom the moneys or property shall pass.
It certainly does not contemplate that it shall pass from
the decedent at the moment of and because of his death.

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

243

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

True, the transfer mentioned is that of the estate of the
decedent, but the decedent's estate is that which is made
up of the elements expressly designated in the statute.
Knowlton v. Moore, supra. The tax is levied on neither
the policies nor their value, nor the moneys received under
the insurance contracts. It is levied "upon the transfer
of the net estate," and the generating cause-the cause
which justifies the tax and to which it is attached-is
the death of the decedent.
The provision of the act of 1918 (40 Stat., chap. 18,
sec. 402(f), p. 1098) applies to the proceeds of policies
issued before the passage of the act. Shwab v. Doyle,
258 U. S. 529; Union Trust Co. v. Wardell, 258 U. S.
537. It certainly can not be insisted with reason that
the proceeds of policies issued before the enactment of
the statute and made payable to the executors were. not
intended to be included in the gross estate. That being true, the date of the issuance of the policy is immaterial; the determinative event is when the money is
received. The requirements that there shall be included
in the gross estate the amounts received by the executors as insurance and those received as insurance "by
all other beneficiaries" in excess of $40,000, are in the
same sentence, and there is not a word in the provision
which contains I suggestion that a different rule was
intended to be observed as to the two classes of funds
derived from insurance. In fact, if the provision does
not apply to insurance policies issued before the passage of the act, it could have had but little practical effect for a number of years after its passage. Such a
construction would practically postpone for years its going into effect. Policies are issued only to those who
are physically fit and have a long expectancy of life, and
but few policies mature within the early years after their
issuance.
There are two lines of cases relating to the modification of the language of legislative acts by subsequent

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

268 U. S.

legislation. The one line proceeds upon the theory that
Congress intended to include a casus omissus from the
previous act, and the other upon the theory that Congress intended to remove any doubt that might otherwise exist as to the inclusion of the case in the previous act. Apparently the distinction between the two
lines of decisions is this: If the inserted word change
the meaning of the language of the previous statute,
or add something thereto when construed according to
the obvious and usual meaning of its language, it will
then be assumed that the inserted words were intended
as an amendment; but if the words inserted accord with
the plain and obvious meaning of the language of the
previous statute, they are taken to, define and make more
certain its meaning. Bailey v. Clark, 21 Wall. 284; Johnson v. So. Pac. Co. 196 U. S. 1; Wetmore v. Mlarkoe,
196 U. S. 68; United States v. Coulby, 251 Fed. 982;
liatter of Reynolds' Estate, 169 Cal. 600; Abstract &
Title Guaranty Co. v. State, 173 Cal. 691.
Mr. George B. Gordon, with whom Messrs. John G.
Buchanan, Miles H. England, and S. G. Nolin, were on
the briefs, for defendants in error.
The policies were property belonging, not to Mr. Frick's
estate, but to the beneficiaries. Tyler, Administratrix, v.
Treasurer and Receiver General, 226 Mass. 306; Elliot's
Appeal, 50 Pa. 75; Anderson's Estate, 85 Pa. 202; Matter
of the Transfer Tax upon the Estate of Andrew Carnegie,
203 App. Div. (N. Y.) 91; Neary v. Metropolitan Life
Ins. Co. 103 Atl. 661, (Conn. 1918); Holden v. Insurance
Co. 77 So. Car. 299; Matter of Parson's Estate, 102 N. Y.
Supp. 168; In re Voorhee's Estate, 193 N. Y. Supp. 168;
Lloyd v. Royal Union Mutual Life Ins. Co. 245 Fed. 162.
See especially Washington Central Bank v. Hume, 128
U. S., 195.
The reservation of a power by the donor which was
never exercised does not affect the vesting of the estate

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

Argument for Defendants in Error.

in the donee. Jones v. Clifton, 101 U. S. 225; Mdtter
of the Transfer Tax upon the estate of Andrew Carnegie,
supra; Matter of Miller, 236 N. Y. 290; Dolan's Estate,
279 Pa. 582. An attempt was made in the court below to
show that the existence of these options and powers,
which were never exercised, prevented the " estate" from
vesting in the beneficiary. We are at a loss to see what
application this contention has to the case; for it is the
estate of the beneficiary that is being taxed here. That
estate, whether you call it vested or contingent, came into
being when the contract which created the obligation to
pay the policy to the beneficiary was made, and continued
unmodified by the exercise of options or powers right
down to the death of the insured, when the policy became
payable at once to the owner of the estate. It is perfectly clear that Mr. Frick's so-called rights were no" conditions of the vesting of the estate" (if we must use this
inaccurate expression) but were simply conditional limitations. In authorities as old as Littleton we find the
illustration that an estate to A if he returns from Rome
is a conditional estate. It does not vest any right in him
until and unless he returns from Rome; but an estate to
A until B returns from Rome is a vested estate in A. It
is simply a conditional limitation upon, not a conditional
vesting of the estate. Bennett v. Robinson, 10 Watts,
348; Irvine v. Sibbetts, 26 Pa. 477; Cooper v. Pogue, 92
Pa. 254; McArthur v. Scott, 133 U. S. 340; Girard Trust
Co. v. McCaughn, 3 Fed. (2d), 618. Mrs. Frick's right
(estate) became her property (vested) when the policy
was issued or the assignment thereof was made, and could
only be divested by a subsequent event (the failure to
pay a premium, or the exercise of a power), which never
happened. In this connection it is well to bear in mind
that the beneficiaries had the right to pay the premiums
and thus to prevent the policies from lapsing.
Neither these insurance policies nor the assignments
thereof comply with the requirements of the Pennsyl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

268 U. S.

vania statute on wills; therefore they are not wills. An
insurance policy is the antithesis of a will. It is primarily and fundamentally a provision for his dependents, made by a man in his lifetime. It is, as we have
shown, their property both by form of contract and by
statute, and the proceeds of the policy are not subject
to the financial vicissitudes of the insured. It is not a
part of his estate; it is not liable for his debts; it does not
pass under his will; nothing new vests in the beneficiaries
by reason of the insured's death.
The assessment of this tax under the provisions of
§ 402 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1918 was illegal because that. section of the act is not retroactive. In addition to what for all other purposes is regarded as constituting a decedent's estate, this act includes in the gross
estate, as it defines it, certain items of property which,
though not unconnected with the past activities of the
decedent's lifetime, are not at the time of his death part
of his estate for the payment of debts, or for distribution,
or for any other than the artificial purpose of determining the tax in accordance with the language of the act.
Those items are: (1) gifts and trusts made by the decedent in contemplation of death, or to take effect at
death; (2) property conveyed to the decedent and some
other person and held by them at the time of the decedent's death as joint tenants or tenants by the entireties, with the right of survivorship; (3) policies of life
insurance taken out by the decedent on his own life and
made payable to persons other than the decedent's executors. The three provisions of the Act which accomplish this extraordinary classification of property are very
similar in their terms and are identical in the fact that,
as originally enacted, they did not contain any language that required them to have a retrospective application. They contained no hint that they were to be applied to any trusts, gifts, entireties, or life insurance poli-

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

Argument for Defendants in Error.

cies other than those made after the passage of the Act.
This is the natural meaning of the language used. And
that such was the meaning that Congress actually had
in mind when it enacted the statute is shown by the
fact that since the provisions were originally enacted
Congress has from time to time added to one or another of the clauses language making it retroactive, until
finally in the Act of 1924 it introduced language making them all retroactive. But this is not all. The first
two of the three original provisions have already been
passed upon by this Court and have .been construed not
to be retroactive. Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 259; Union
Trust Co. v. Wardell, Id. 537; Levy v. Wardell, Id. 542;
Knox v. McElligott, Id. 546.
By making subdivision (g), the language of which is
exactly the same as that of subdivision (f) of § 402 of the
Acts of 1918 and 1921, applicable to all transfers, etc.,
made before the enactment of the Act of 1924, Congress
conceded that the language of the earlier acts did not
apply to the proceeds of policies taken out before this
Act went into effect. Shwab v. Doyle, supra; Smietanka
v. First Trust & Savings Bank, 257 U. S. 602; United
States v. Field, 255 U. S. 257. The conclusion that the
provisions of § 402 (f) are not applicable to the proceeds
of insurance policies taken out and assigned long before
this Act was passed is further supported by numerous
decisions in this and other courts holding, as was held in
Shwab v. Doyle, supra, that tax laws are to be strictly
construed in favor of the taxpayer. United States v.
Merriam, 263 U. S. 179; Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151;
Eidman v. Martinez, 184 U. S. 578. See Reynolds v.
McArthur, 2 Pet. 417, 434. An established practice of
this Court is to avoid giving to a statute a construction
which involves constitutional difficulties. Panama R. R.
Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375.
Even though it be deemed that the Act was intended
by Congress to be retroactive, the tax was illegally levied

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

268 U. S.

(a) because such a tax is a direct tax and (b) because it
is not due process of law. A retroactive tax is not an
excise tax but a direct tax requiring apportionment, since
a tax cannot be an excise unless "the element of absolute
and unavoidable demand is lacking." Thomas v. United
States, 192 U. S. 363, 371; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra;
Singer v. United States, 15 Wall. 111, 120; Patton v.
Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 623. The tax must therefore be
either a direct tax upon the person, imposed by reason of
his past acts, or a direct tax upon the property transferred.
It is a direct property tax within the definitions adopted
in: Pollock Case, 157 U. S. 429; Dawson v. Kentucky
DistilleriesCompany, 255 U. S. 288. Eisnerv. Macomber,
supra; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; In re Pell, 171
N. Y. 48.
A tax in any form, imposed upon the creation or transfer of property rights at a time long past, is in substance
not a tax but an imposition so arbitrary and unreasonable as to amount to a confiscation of property within
the prohibition of the Fifth Amendment. Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co. 240 U. S. 1; Child Labor Tax
Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
The Constitution requires duties, imposts and excises
to be uniform throughout the United States, Art I, § 8.
United States v. Singer, 15 Wall. 111.
It was not due process of law to compel the executors
to pay an estate transfer tax on property which was not
part of the decedent's estate, but which belonged to
others. . Such a tax is unconstitutional because-(1) It
is unequal; it is a deprivation of property without due
process of law. (2) The remedy over sought to be given
to the executors against the beneficiaries is inadequate,
(a) Because a mere cause of action to recover is not the
equivalent to immunity from taxation; and (b) Because
the act attempts to give the right to recover only a part
of the amount which the estate has to pay. That the

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

Opinion of the Court.

tax is an excise tax founded upon the termination of
Mr. Frick's title has been expressly held by this court
in cases involving the application of that act. Y. M. C. A.
v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47; Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S. 61.
See Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.
Our proposition that you cannot include in the value
of the taxable thing the value of some other thing is a
fundamental point in the following cases: Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Delaware,
L. & W. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union
Refrigerator Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Sou. Pac.
Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63; Wallace v. Hines, 253
U. S. 66; Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71; Wardell
v. Blum, 276 Fed. 226; Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S.
466. A tax cannot be made the means of imposing upon
one man the burden which should be borne by another.
United States v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 17 Wall. 322; Knowlton v. Moore, supra; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20
Wall. 655.
Messrs. Ira. J. Williams Jr., A. Carson Simpson, Ira
J. Williams and FrancisShunk Brown; Isaac B. Lipson;
Frederick Geller and Russell L. Bradford; William B.
Sears and Alexander Lincoln; Tyson S. Dines, Peter H.
Holme, Harold D. Roberts and Charles E. Works; and
William Marshall Bullitt, filed briefs as amici curiae, by
special leave of court.
MR. JusT
Court.

.c HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

This is a suit by the executors of Henry C. Frick to
recover the amount of taxes collected by duress under
the supposed authority of the Revenue Act of February
24, 1919, c. 18; 40 Sta.t. 1057, on the ground that the
Act is unconstitutional so far as it purports to tax the
mbtters here concerned. The District Court gave judg-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ment for the plaintiffs for the whole sum demanded.
298 Fed. 803. The case was tried without a jury and
the Court adopted as its findings among others the following facts which were agreed: Henry C. Frick died
on December 2, 1919, and his will was admitted to probate on December 6. There were outstanding policies
upon his life, four payable to, his wife and seven to his
daughter. The total amount received under them was
$474,629.52, and as his estate apart from this was more
than ten million dollars, an additional tax of $108,657.88,
or twenty-five per cent. of the sum received less the
statutory deduction of $40,000, was required to be paid.
All the policies were taken out before the Revenue Act
was passed. The largest one, for $114,000 dollars, was
a paid-up policy issued in 1901, payable to Mrs. Frick
without power in Mr. Frick to change the beneficiary. Another, similar so, far as material, was for $50,000. Others
were assigned or the beneficiary named (Frick's estate)
was changed to Frick's wife or daughter before the date
of the statute. All premiums were paid by Mr. Frick,
and some seem to have been paid after the statute went
into force.
The tax imposed by the Act is, a tax 'upon the transfer
of the net estate' of the decedent. § 400; 40 Stat. 109G.
'For the purpose of the tax the value of the net estate
shall be determined' by deducting certain allowances
from the gross estate. § 403. By § 402 "the value of
the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by
including the value at the time of his death of all property . . . (f) To the extent of the amount receivable by the executor as insurance under policies taken
out by the decedent upon his own life; and to the extent of the excess over $40,000 of the amount receivable by all other beneficiaries as insurance under policies
taken out by the decedent upon his own life."- These
last words are the ground of the Collector's claim.

LEWELLYN v. FRICK.
238

Opinion of the Court.

By § 408; 40 Stat. 1100, "If any part of the gross estate consists of proceeds of policies of insurance upon
the life of the decedent receivable by a beneficiary other
than the executor, the executor shall be entitled to recover from such beneficiary such portion of the total
tax paid as the proceeds, in excess of $40,000, of such
policies bear to the net estate." By § 409 a personal liability is imposed upon the beneficiaries if the tax is not
paid when due. The defendants in error say that if these
policies are covered by the statute these sections show
that the beneficiaries are taxed upon their own property,
under the guise of a tax upon the transfer of his estate
by Mr. Frick, and that this is taking their property without due process of law, citing Matter of Pell, 171 N. Y.
48,.and other cases. In view of their liability the objection cannot be escaped by calling the reference to their
receipts a mere measure of the transfer tax. The interest of the beneficiaries is established by statutes of
the States controlling the insurance and is not disputed.
It also is strongly urged that the tax would be a direct
tax. In view of our conclusion it is not necessary to
state the position of the defendants in error more in detail.
We do not propose to discuss the limits of the powers of Congress in cases like the present. It is enough
to point out that at least there would be a very serious
question to be answered before Mrs. Frick and Miss Frick
could be made to pay a tax on the transfer of his estate
by Mr. Frick. There would be another if the provisions
for the liability of beneficiaries were held to be separable and it was proposed to make the estate pay a transfer tax for property that Mr. Frick did not transfer. Acts
of Congress are to be construed if possible in such a way
as to avoid grave doubts of this kind. Panama R. R.
Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390. Not only are such
doubts avoided by construing the statute as referring only

