IRWIN v. GAVIT.
Argument for Petitioner.
IRWIN,

FORMER COLLECTOR OF
REVENUE, v. GAVIT.

INTERNAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 325.

Argued April 15, 1925.-Decided April 27, 1925.

1. A will provided that the income from a fund in trust should be
applied to the education and support of the testator's granddaughter so far as the trustees deemed proper and that the balance
of it should be divided into two equal parts one of which should be
paid to the plaintiff in equal, quarter-yearly instalments during his
life. On the granddaughter's reaching the age of twenty-one or
dying, the fund was to go over, so that, considering her age, the
plaintiff's interest could not exceed fifteen years. Held, that the
sums paid the plaintiff were taxable income within the meaning of
the Constitution, and of the Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913,
which taxed "the entire net income arising or accruing * * *
to every citizen of the United States" and defined net income as
"gains or profits and income derived from any source whatever,
including the income from but not the value of property acquired
oy gift, bequest, devise or descent." P. 166.
2. The provision of the above act exempting bequests assumes the
gift of a corpus and contrasts it with the income arising from it,
but was not intended to exempt income, properly so called, simply
because of a severance between it and the principal fund. P. 167.
3. The rule that tax laws shall be construed favorably for the taxpayers is not a reason for creating or exaggerating doubts of their
meaning. P. 168.
295 Fed. 84, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment for the plaintiff in an action
to recover taxes and penalties exacted under an income
tax law. See 275 Fed. 643.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Chester A.
Gwinn, was on the brief, for petitioner.
The payments were income, taxable at normal and surtax rates under ยง II of the Income Tax Act of 1913. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

268 U. S.

decision of this Court in the case of Maguire v. Trefry,
253 U. S. 12, directly refutes the contention that earnings
of capital, in order to be income to the recipient within
the meaning of the Income Tax Act of 1913 and the Sixteenth Amendment, must be a gain derived from a capital or corpus actually owned by the recipient of the income. Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255
U. S. 509. The error of the Circuit Court of Appeals
lies in confusing the income from a legacy with the legacy
itself. Under the act the former is taxed as income while
the latter is not. What Gavit in fact took under Brady's
will was a vested beneficial interest in the trust estate,
enforceable in a court of equity, and which consisted of
the right to receive, under certain conditions, a portion
of the income. On this interest or use there was no tax
because he received it as a bequest. On.the other hand,
what income Gavit received from the trustees of the
estate was taxable. Gavit's interest in the trust fund
was "property," the "value" of which is exempt from
tax as income because received as a bequest. Raymer v.
Trefry, 239 Mass. 410. The fact that the enjoyment is
uncertain never interferes with the vesting of an estate.
When the contingency is not in the person, but in the
event when enjoyment shall commence, or in the time
of the enjoyment, the interest is considered vested. Neilson v. Bishop, 45 N. J. Eq. 473.
"Income" from capital must be, not capital, but the proceeds of capital. A gift or bequest of capital assets even if
payable in installments is not "income."
Here not a
portion of the capital assets forming the corpus, but certain of the earnings thereof, passed to the cestui que
trust. The cestui que trust has an interest in the corpus,
because he is legally entitled to receive whatever income
is given him nd must have the right to enforce payment if it is wrongfully withheld. The act of 191,3 specifically taxes income "growing out of the ownership or use

IRWIN v. GAVIT.
161

Argument for Respondent.

of or interest in real or personal property." Therefore, it
must inevitably follow that, as Gavit had an " interest in"
the corpus, the proceeds thereof coming into his hands
were taxable income. In denying that the cestui que
trust had any interest in the principal the-lower courts
ignored the law of the State of New York as to trust estates. Metcalfe v. Union Trust Company, 181 N. Y. 39.
The most important aspect of the decision below is not
the obvious. error in this particular case, but the serious
and far-reaching effect upon the whole income-tax system of the Government.
A Constitutional question is involved. The suggestion
of the opinion below is that a bequest of income can not
be "income" under the Sixteenth Amendment, where the
beneficiary owns no part of the corpus, and is not made
income by Congress calling it such. Under this theory
Congress has no power to tax the income from property
acquired. by gift or legacy where income is bequeathed
apart from the corpus; but under such circumstances both
the value of the property itself and the income therefrom
are necessarily exempt. The income from a legacy is taxable as income whether the legatee owns any part of the
corpus or not. Baltzell v. Casey, 1 Fed (2) 29; aff'd. by
C. C. A., Jan. 14, 1925. Stratton'sIndependence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399; Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v.
Smietanka, supra. There is, and always has been, ample
power in Congress to tax income from whatever source
derived. Congress used the word "income" in its popular and broadest sense. Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189; Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S.339.
Mr. Neile F. Towner, for respondent.
The respondent was bequeathed a certain portion of
the increase of the estate of the testator for a definite period; that is, until the graiiddaughter of the testator, who
is the daughter of the respondent, attained the age of

OCTOBER TERIV, 1924.
Argument for Respondent.

268 U. S.

twenty-one years. The gift to Mr. Gavit is further limii- by the life of the granddaughter, as the will pro-hat if, prior to attaining the age of twenty-one,
she died, respondent was to receive no further sum whatsoever under the will as the entire trust estate went to
the issue of the granddaughter, if any, otherwise to the
testator's issue. What, then, did Mr. Gavit receive from
the estate? A legacy and a bequest are held to be synonymous terms and are properly used to distinguish a
gift of personalty made by a testator from a devise which
is a gift of realty. In re Campbell's Estate, 75 Pac. 851,
853. A bequest is a conditional or unconditional Voluntary disposition of personal property by will. Merriam
v. United States, 263 U. S. 179. Under these well recognized definitions, it can not be held that Mr. Gavit did
not receive a gift or bequest. It is urged, however, that
because, instead of receiving a definite sum or a definite
portion of the corpus of the estate, he received a part of
the increase, his gift ceased to be a legacy and became income. This contention we believe is unsound when we
bear in mind that we are considering this proposition,
not from the viewpoint of the estate or the testator's
executors and trustees, but from the viewpoint of Mr.
Gavit. There is ample authority for our contention that,
so far as a beneficiary is concerned, the fact that the gift
he received from a testator is measured by the increase
of the corpus of the estate, does not change his position,
and what he receives continues to be a legacy or bequest
and he continues to be a legatee. Disston v. McClain,
147 Fed. 114; United States v. Fidelity Trust Co. 222
U. S. 158; Westhusv. Union Trust Co. 164 Fed. 795; Matter of Stanfield, 135 N. Y. 292.
Assume, for instance, in this case that the testator had
directed one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to be paid
to the respondent in fifteen annual installments which
would be approximately the period in this case, there

IRWIN v. GAVIT.
161

Opinion of the Court.

could be no question but that such a gift would be considered as a bequest. Assume further, that the testator
had divided his estate into six equal parts and directed
his executors to pay to the respondent a portion of one
of the parts in fifteen annual installments. In either case,
as far as the beneficiary was concerned, he would be in
receipt of a bequest and not income. This leads logically
and directly to the present case, where the testator, instead of giving any part of the corpus of his estate to the
respondent, directed that a certain percentage of the
corpus should be set aside and that the respondent should
receive a certain portion of the interest on that trust fund
for a period limited. Smietanka v. First Trust & Savings
Bank, 257 U. S. 602, distingushed. Maguire v. Trefry,
253 U. S. 12, distinguished. See Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41.
A conclusive answer to the contention that, although
this gift might not be income so far as the respondent
himself was concerned, it was income so far as the estate
was concerned, and hence taxable, is that the income of
an estate was not taxable under the Act of 1913 where
there was no person in receipt of such income, simply as
income. Smietanka v. First Trust & Savings Bank, 257
U. S. 602.
Mr. Frank Davis and Mr. John W. Davis filed a brief
as amici curiae by special leave of Court.
Mr. James Craig Peacock and Mr. John W. Townsend
also fled a brief as anici curiae by special leave of Court.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit td recover taxes and penalties exacted by
the Collector under the Income Tax Act of October 3,
1913, c. 16, Section II, A. subdivisions 1 and 2; B. D. and

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

E. 38 Stat. 114, 166, et seq. The Collector demurred to
the complaint. The demurrer was overruled and judgment given for the plaintiff by the District Court, 275
Fed. 643, and the Circuit Court of Appeals, 295 Fed. 84.
A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court. 264 U. S.
579.
The question is whether the sums received by the plaintiff under the will of Anthony N. Brady in 1913, 1914 and
1915, were income and taxed. The will, admitted to probate August 12, 1913, left the residue of the estate in
trust to be divided into six equal parts, the income of
one part to be applied so far as deemed proper by the
trustees to the education and support of the testator's
granddaughter, Marcia Ann Gavit, the balance to be divided into two equal parts and one of them to be paid
to the testator's son-in-law, the plaintiff, in equal quarteryearly payments during his life. But on the granddaughter's reaching the age of twenty-one or dying the
fund went over, so that, the granddaughter then being
six years old, it is said, the plaintiff's interest could not
exceed fifteen years. The Courts below held that the
payments received were property acquired by bequest,
were not income and were not subject to tax.
The statute in Section II, A, subdivision 1, provides
that there shall be levied a tax "upon the entire net income arising or accruing from all sources in the preceding calendar year to every citizen of the United States."
If these payments properly may be called income by the
common understanding of that word and the statute has
failed to hit them it has missed so much of the general
purpose that it expresses at the start. Congress intended
to use its power to the full extent. Eisner v. Macomber,
252 U. S. 189, 203. By B. the net inqome is to include
'gains or profits and income derived from any source
whatever, including the income from but not the value
of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise or descent.'

IRWIN v. GAVIT.
161

Opinion of the Court.

By D. trustees are to make 'return of the net income of
the person for whom they act, subject to this tax,' and
by E. trustees and others having the control or payment
of fixed or determinable gains, &c., of another person who
are required to render a return on behalf of another are
'authorized to withhold enough to pay the normal tax.'
The language quoted leaves no doubt in our minds that
if a fund were given to trustees for A for life with remainder over, the income received by the trustees and
paid over to A would be income of A under the statute.
It seems to us hardly less clear that even if there were
a specific provision that A should have no interest in the
corpus, the payments would be income none the less,
within the meaning of the statute and the Constitution,
and by popular speech. In the first case it is true that
the bequest might be said to be of the corpus for life,
in the second it might be said to be of the income. But
we think that the provision of the act that exempts bequests assumes the gift of a corpus and contrasts it with
the income arising from it, but was not intended to exempt income properly so-called simply because of a severance between it and the principal fund. No such conclusion can be drawn from Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189, 206, 207. The money was income in the hands of
the trustees and we know of nothing in the law that prevented its being paid and received as income by the
donee.
The Courts below went on the ground that the gift to
the plaintiff was a bequest and carried no interest in
the corpus of the fund. We do not regard those considerations as conclusive, as we have said, but if it were
material a gift of the income of a fund ordinarily is treated by equity as creating an interest in- the fund. Apart
from technicalities we can perceive no distinction relevant
to the question before us between a gift of the fund for
life and a gift of the income from it. The fund is ap-

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
SUTHERLAND

and

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

268 U. S.

propriated to the production of the same result whichever form the gift takes. Neither are we troubled by the
question where to draw the line. That is the question
in pretty much everything worth arguing in the law.
Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
355. Day and night, youth and age are only types. But
the distinction between the cases put of a gift from the
corpus of the estate payable in instalments and the present seems to us not hard to draw, assuming that the
gift supposed would not be income. This is a gift from
the income of a very large fund, as income. It seems to
us immaterial that the same amounts might receive a
different color from their source. We are of opinion that
quarterly payments, which it was hoped would last for
fifteen years, from the income of an estate intended for
the plaintiff's child, must be regarded as income within
the meaning of the Constitution and the law. It is said
that the tax laws should be construed favorably for the
taxpayers. But that is not a reason for creating a doubt
or for exaggerating one when it is no greater than we can
bring ourselves to feel in this case.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

By the plain terms of the Revenue Act of 1913, the
value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise, or
descent is not to be included in net income. Only the
income derived from such property is subject to the tax.
The question, as it seems to me, is really a very simple
one. Money, of course, is property. The money here
sought to be taxed as income was paid to respondent
under the express provisions of a will. It was a gift by
will,-a bequest. United States v. Merriam, 263 U. S.
179, 184. It, therefore, fell within the precise letter of the
statute; and, under well settled principles, judicial inquiry may go no further. The taxpayer is entitled to the

