OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

tion of his superior officers. These facts are enough to
establish the existence of the vacancy, for it is a well
settled rule that all necessary prerequisites to the validity
of official acts are presumed to exist, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary. Nofire v. United States, 164
U. S. 657, 660-661.
We need not determine whether respondent might have
maintained an action against the Government for unpaid
salary; but, clearly, the money having been paid for
services actually rendered in an office held de facto, and
the Government presumably having benefited to the extent of the payment, in equity and good conscience he
should not be required to refund it. In substance the
case is ruled by Badeau v. United States, 130 U. S. 439,
452, where this Court, referring to a similar situation,
said: "But inasmuch as the claimant, if not an officer
de jure, acted as an officer de facto, we are not inclined
to hold that he has received money which, ex aequo et
bono, he ought to return." See also, Montgomery v.
United States, 19 Ct. Cls. 370, 376; Bennett v. United
States, id. 379, 388; Palen v. United States, id. 389, 394.
Judgment affirmed.
REALTY HOLDING COMPANY v. DONALDSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 348.

Argued April 28, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. An allegation that a defendant in the District Court is a " resident " of the State in which the suit is brought is not a sufficient
allegation of citizenship there; but the defect is amendable when
such citizenship is conceded; and on appeal the amendment will be
considered as made rather than send the case back for that purpose. P. 399.
2. A suit for specific performance of the covenants of a lease is a suit
to recover upon a chose in action, within the meaning of Jud. Code,

REALTY CO. v. DONALDSON.
398

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 24, "First ", and cannot be maintained in the District Court on
the ground of diverse citizenship if the plaintiff sues as assignee of
the lease and seeks only such additional relief as is purely incidental
to the main object. P. 400.
294 Fed. 541, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a

bill for specific performance, for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. John R. Rood, for appellant.
Mr. John C. Spalding, with whom Messrs. Sidney T.
Miller, George L. Canfield, Lewis H. Paddock, Ferris D.
Stone, Sidney T. Miller, Jr., Grant L. Cook, Joseph H.
Clark, Harold H. Emmons, W. G. Bryant, George H.
Klein, L. B. Gardner, and Frank L. Dodge were on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The jurisdiction of the court below was invoked upon
the ground of diverse citizenship, Jud. Code, ยง 24, First;
and the court dismissed the bill under the limiting clause
contained in that subdivision: "No district court shall
have cognizance of any suit (except upon foreign bills of
exchange) to recover upon any promissory note or other
chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and
be not made by any corporation, unless such suit might
have been prosecuted in such court to recover upon said
note or other chose in action if no assignment had been
made." 294 Fed. 541.
The bill alleges that appellant is a Delaware corporation and appellee a "resident" of Michigan. This is not
a sufficient allegation of appellee's Michigan citizenship.
Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 648; Wolfe v. Hartford
Life Ins. Co., 148 U. S. 389; Oxley Stave Company v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, 655. It was, however, conceded by appellee in the court below, as well as here, that
she was in fact a citizen of Michigan; and the court below
assumed the point. Since the defect may be cured by
amendment and nothing is to be gained by sending the
case back for that purpose, we shall consider the amendment made and dispose of the case. Norton v. Larney,
266 U. S. 511, 515-516; Howard v. De Cordova, 177 U. S.
609, 614.
Shortly stated, the bill alleges that appellee was the
owner of certain real property in Michigan which she had
leased to the Clifford Land Company, a Michigan corporation; that the Clifford Land Company had undertaken to finance for appellee the erection of a building
upon such property; that appellant had executed and
delivered to appellee two conveyances of other real property in Michigan as security for the erection of such building in accordance with the promises of the land company;
that appellee had violated the terms of the lease in certain
particulars set forth; and that appellant, "in order to
protect its rights and property in the premises" etc., procured an assignment to it from the land company of the
said lease. The specffic relief prayed is a decree for
"specific performance by the said defendant of her said
several undertakings" and for an injunction against
interferences with appellant under the lease.
The assignor, being a Michigan corporation, could not
have prosecuted the suit in a federal court if no assignment had been made. The phrase "to recover upon
any . . . chose in action," under the decisions of
this Court, includes a suit to compel the specific performance of a contract or otherwise to enforce its stipula,
tions. Corbin v. County of Black Hawk, 105 U. S. 659,
665; Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S. 730; Plant Investment Co. v. Key West Railway, 152 U. S. 71, 76; New
Orleansv. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411, 432. An examination

REALTY CO. v. DONALDSON.
398

Opinion of the Court.

of the bill of complaint discloses that the suit is primarily
for a specific performance of the covenants of the lease.
Additional relief sought is purely incidental to this main
object. The case, therefore, falls within the doctrine of
the foregoing decisions, and the court below was right in
adjudging a dismissal. Kolze v. Hoadley, 200 U. S. 76,
83 et seq.; Citizens Savings Bank v. Sexton, 264 U. S.
310, 314.
The cases relied upon by appellant are not in point.
Brown v. Fletcher, 235 U. 'S. 589, was a suit against a
trustee by an assignee to recover an interest in an estate
under an assignment by.the cestui que trust. This Court
held that the relation between trustee and cestui que trust
was not contractual; that the rights of the beneficiary
depended upon- the terms of the will creating the trust;
and that a suit by the beneficiary or his assignee against
the trustee for the enforcement of rights in and to the
property held for the benefit of the beneficiary could not
be treated as a suit on a contract or a chose in action.
The Court then said (p. 599): "The beneficiary here had
an interest in and to the property that was more than a
bare right and much more than a chose in action. For
he had an admitted and recognized fixed right to the
present enjoyment of the estate with ;, right to the corpus
itself when he reached the age of fifty-five. His estate in
the property thus in the possession of the trustee, for his
benefit, though defeasible, was alienable to the same
extent as though in his own possession 'and passed by
deed. [Citing cases.] The instrument by virtue of
which that alienation was evidenced,-whether called a
deed, a bill of sale, or an assignment,--was not a chose
in action payable to the assignee, but an evidence of the
assignee's right, title, and estate in and to property.
Assuming that the transfer was not colorable or fraudulent, the Federal statutes have always permitted the
vendee or assignee to sue in the United States courts to

