UNITED STATES v. NOCE.
607

Counsel for Parties.

the importer was careless is not a finding sufficient to
justify the Board in deciding whether there should be a
remission. Both the importer and the Government are
entitled to a finding either that there was no intent to defraud or that the importer did not sustain his burden that
there was no such intent.
The judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NOCE.
APPEAL FROM TI

COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 360. Argued April 30, 1925.-Decided June 8, 1925.
1. An army officer held not entitled to count for longevity pay his
service as a cadet in the Military Academy. P. 616.
2. The proviso in § 11 of the Act of May 18, 1920, 41 Stat. 601,
"that hereafter longevity pay for officers in the Army, Navy,
Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Public Health Service and Coast and
Geodetic Survey shall be based on the total of all service in any
or all of said services," does not deal with rules of longevity in any
one service but intends to produce equality as between all the
services named and did not repeal the provisions in the Army and
Naval Appropriation Acts, of October 24, 1912, and March 4, 1913,
respectively, directing that service in the Military and Naval
Academies shall not be counted in computing for any purpose the
length of service of any officer of the Army, Navy or Marine
Corps.
58 Ct. Cls. 688, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims allowing recovery of longevity pay by an army officer.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Letts, with whom the
Solicitor General and Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellant.

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Mr. Samuel T. Ansell, with whom Mr. Edward S. Bailey
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Daniel Noce was Major of Engineers in the United
States Army in the emergency establishment from May
18, 1920, until June 30, 1920, when he returned to a
captaincy in the regular establishment. He sued the
United States in the Court of Claims for $467.66 as
longevity pay, alleged to be due him under the law over
and above the pay he received. He was appointed cadet
at the West Point Military Academy August 1, 1913.
He was graduated April 20, 1917. If he can count for
longevity pay his cadet service from August 1, 1913, to
April 20, 1917, he will be entitled to the amount he claims
from the date of approval of the Act of Congress of May
18, 1920, (§ 11, c. 190, 41 Stat. 601, 603) to April 19, 1922,
the period covered by this suit. The accounting officers
denied the claim.
The Court of Claims found that under the Act, claimant's cadet service must be counted and gave judgment
for him. The United States has appealed and urges a
reversal, on the ground that such a conclusion is forbidden
by the Army Appropriation Act of October 24, 1912,
c. 391, § 6, 37 Stat. 569, 594, which provides:
"That hereafter the service of a cadet who may hereafter be ajpointed to the United States Military Academy, or to the Naval Academy, shall not be counted in
computing for any purpose the length of service of any
officer of the Army."
A sinilar provision was made in the Naval Appropriation Act of March 4, 1913, c. 148, 37 Stat. 891, as follows:
"Hereafter the service of a midshipman at the United
States Naval Academy, or that of a cadet at the United
States Military Academy, who may hereafter be ap-

UNITED STATES v. NOCE.
613

Opinion of the Court.

pointed to the United States Naval Academy, or to the
United States Military Academy, shall not be counted
in computing for any purpose the length of service of
any officer in the Navy or in the Marine Corps."
The Court of Claims held that these two provisions had
been repealed by the Act of May 18, 1920, already referred
to. The Act is entitled "To increase the efficiency of the
commissioned and enlisted personnel of the Army, Navy,
Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Coast and Geodetic Survey
and Public Health Service ". It increased the pay of
certain commissioned officers of the Army, Navy, Marine
Corps and Public Health Service, mentioning in detail
the ranks affected and the increases provided. It provided for a temporary commutation of quarters, heat, and
light theretofore granted to Army officers on duty in the
field to those of the Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard
and Public Health Service. It gave warrant officers of
the Navy an increase, in addition to all pay allowances,
of $240 per annum. It increased the pay of all enlisted
men of the Army and Marine Corps and of female nurses
20 per centum with certain exceptions. It increased the
commutation rations of non-commissioned officers of the
Army, of the Marine Corps and of field clerks of the
Army and the Quartermaster Corps. It gave a new base
pay for enlisted ratings of petty officers and non-commissioned officers and of enlisted men in the Navy, of the
Naval Academy band and of the Fleet Naval Reserve.
It authorized the Secretary of the Navy in his discretion
to readjust the prevailing rates of pay of civilian professors and instructors of the Naval Academy. In § 8 it
provided that the Coast Guard should have the same pay
ratings to correspond with the Navy and mentioned the
officers. Then by § 11 it provided as follows:
"Sec. 11. That in lieu of compensation now prescribed
by law, commissioned officers of the Coast and Geodetic
Survey shall receive the same pay and allowances as now

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

26S U. S.

are or hereafter may be prescribed for officers of the Navy
with whom they hold relative rank as prescribed in the
Act of May 22, 1917, entitled 'An Act to temporarily
increase the commissioned and warrant and enlisted
strength of the Navy and Marine Corps, and for other
purposes,' including longevity; and all laws relating to
the retirement of commissioned officers of the Navy shall
hereafter apply to commissioned officers of the Coast and
Geodetic Survey: Provided, That hereafter longevity pay
for officers in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast
Guard, Public Health Service, and Coast and Geodetic
Survey shall be based on the total of all service in any
or all of said services."
It is this proviso which it is said repealed the laws of
1912 and 1913 above quoted. It is urged that the words
"longevity pay shall be based on the total of all service
in any or all of said services" are inconsistent with the
exclusion of service in the Military Academy or in the
Naval Academy from the calculation of longevity pay.
We are unable to put such a construction on this
proviso. The whole Act was intended to promote equality
between the six services. After equalizing their pay, it
was intended to give any officer or any man in either of
the services the benefit of longevity increases for any service which he might have had in any other of the services.
The Report of the Managers of the House of Representatives as to § 11 and its proviso (H. R. 948, 66th Congress, 2nd Sess.) said:
"It provides that commissioned officers of the Coast
and Geodetic Survey, a highly technical and specialized
service, shall receive the same pay and allowances as are
prescribed for officers of the Navy with whom they hold
relative rank as prescribed in the Act of May 22, 1917.
It also contains a proviso placing all services on an
equality in the matter of computation of longevity or
service pay."

UNITED STATES v. NOCE.
613

Opinion of the Court.

In other words, the longevity pay of a member of any
service was to be determined by his total service in any
or all of the services. It was not dealing with the rules as
to the longevity in any one service. It was to make the
calculation of longevity as if the six services were but one
service. It was not aiming at any inequality within a
service but at an inequality between services. No reference is made to cadet service and nothing to indicate that
Congress had it in mind.
The question whether service in either of the Academies
was Army or Navy service which should count for
longevity pay and retirement was a long standing issue
between the officers of the Army and Navy who were
graduates of the two academies on the one hand and the
officers who were not graduates and the accounting officers
of the Treasury on the other. This is evident from the
decision of this Court in United States v. Morton, 112
U. S. 1; and United States v. Watson, 130 U. S. 80.
The legislative history of the Act of 1912 and that of
1913 shows that the question was much contested between
the two Houses. The Report of the House Committee on
Military Affairs (H. R. 270, 62nd Congress, 2nd Sess.)
gives an extended argument against the practice of computing cadet service for pay and retirement purposes. It
said:
"The result of this practice is that a graduate of the
Military Academy who was appointed a second lieutenant,
after having been educated for that appointment for four
or more years wholly at the expense of the Government,
receives his first 10 per cent increase of pay after not
more than one year of service as a commissioned officer,
whereas the second lieutenant who is appointed from civil
life, after having been fitted for the appointment wholly
at his own expense, must serve for five full years as a
commissioned officer before he can receive his first 10 per
cent increase of pay. And the same disparity between the
two cases continues to the end."

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

After pointing out other discriminations arising from
this practice, the report continues:
"It is but just to say that this preposterous practice did
not originate with the War Department. It was the result
of a decision rendered by the Supreme Court October 27,
1884 (Morton v. United States, 112 U. S. 1), to the effect
that the time during which a person has served as a cadet
is to be regarded as 'actual time of service in the
army.'"
After referring specifically to retirement, the report
says:
"These are additional discriminations against the
civilian appointee who pays for his own preliminary education and in favor of the graduate of the Military
Academy who is educated for his commission at the expense of the Government."
In view of this long continued controversy which before 1912 had finally been settled only by two decisions
of this Court, it is inconceivable that the two Acts of 1912
and 1913, nullifying the effect of those decisions, and
passed after a heated struggle, should have been repealed
without mention of the cadet service in the proviso now
said to have worked this result. As already pointed out,
the Act of which this was a part was detailed in its reference to the commissioned officers, the non-commissioned
officers and to the enlisted men of the various six services
affected, and to the pay and increases which they were to
receive. Had it been intended to increase the "fogey"
pay, as the longevity pay is called, for only a part of
the commissioned officers of the Army and only a part
of the commissioned officers of the Navy, and only a
part of the commissioned officers of the Marine Corps in
such a specific Act, the favor thus to be conferred upon
them would certainly have been set forth in language
whose meaning could not be mistaken.
It is, indeed, very difficult to say that there is any real
inconsistency between the proviso of 1920 and the Acts of

