FERNANDEZ v. PHILLIPS.
Opinion of the Court.

FERNANDEZ v. PHILLIPS, U. S. MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.

No. 680.

Argued May 4, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. In extradition proceedings, form is not to be insisted upon beyond
the requirements of safety and justice, and the competent evidence establishing reasonable grounds for extradition is not necessarily evidence competent to convict. P. 312.
2. Habeas corpus can not be used to rehear the findings of a magistrate in extradition, but only to inquire whether he had jurisdiction, whether the offence is within the treaty, and whether there
was any evidence warranting the finding of reasonable ground to
believe the accused guilty. P. 312.
3. Complaint in extradition filed by an Assistant United States
Attorney, upon information, held sufficient, where it appeared at
the hearing that it was ordered by the Attorney General upon
request of the Secretary of State based on a request and a record
of judicial proceedings from the foreign country. P. 312.
4. Embezzlement or peculation of public funds by a public officer
is a crime in Mexico within the extradition treaty. P. 313.
5. Warrant in extradition (if required) held good in habeas corpus
over the objection of misnomer of the accused, where the name in
the warrant was one of two applied to him in the proceedings and
he was identified by the testimony.
Affirmed.

from a judgment of the District Court remanding the appellant in a habeas corpus case.
APPEAL

Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Messrs. Robert W.
Upton, and Edward C. Niles were on the brief, for appel-

lant, submitted.
Mr. Harold B. Elgar, with whom Mr. Jerome S. Hess
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant is charged with embezzlement of public
funds while a public officer of the United States of Mex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ico. He was held for surrender to that Government after
a hearing before a District Judge who found that there
was probable cause to believe that he was guilty and that
he was a fugitive from justice. Writs of habeas corpus
and certiorari were issued by another District Judge who
came to the same conclusion and remanded the appellant. The case is brought here directly upon the somewhat strained assumption that the construction of our
treaty with Mexico is involved. Being here, out of a
natural anxiety to save the appellant if possible from
being sent from New Hampshire to Mexico for trial, it
has been presented as if this were the final stage and every
technical detail were to be proved beyond a reasonable
doubt. This is not the law. Form is not to be insisted
upon beyond the requirements of safety and justice.
Glucksman v. Henkel, 221 U. S. 508, 512. Competent evidence to establish reasonable grounds is not necessarily
evidence competent to convict. See e. g., Bingham v.
Bradley, 241 U. S. 511, 517. Collins v. Loisel, 259 U. S.
309, 317. 1 Wigmore, Evidence, 2d ed., ยง 4(6), p. 21.
The foregoing are general principles relating to extradition, but there are further limits to habeas corpus. That
writ as has been said very often cannot take the place of
a writ of error. It is not a means for rehearing what the
magistrate already has decided. The alleged fugitive
from justice has had his hearing and habeas corpus is
available only to inquire whether the magistrate had jurisdictiQn, whether the offence charged is within the treaty
and, by a somewhat liberal extension, whether there was
any evidence warranting the finding that there was reasonable ground to believe the accused guilty. Benson v.
McMahon, 127 U. S. 457. Re Luis Oteiza y Cortes, 136
U. S. 330. Bryant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104, 105.
Elias v. Ramirez, 215 U. S. 398, 406. We pass to the consideration of the specific objections urged.
It is objected in the first place that the complaint and
warrant are defective. The complaint was filed by an As-

FERNANDEZ v. PHILLIPS.
311

Opinion of the Court.

sistant District Attorney of the United States for the
District of New Hampshire. It alleged that the complainant was informed 'through diplomatic chanriel ' that
the appellant was duly and legally charged by the United
States of Mexico with the crime, and on behalf of that
government prayed the arrest. Of course whatever form
of words was used, the complaint necessarily was upon information, but as appeared at the hearing it was filed by
order of the Attorney General, upon request of the Secretary of State, enclosing a request for the extradition from
the Mexican Government and a copy of proceedings in a
Mexican Court finding that the crime was duly proved
against the appellant and ordering his arrest, many pages
of evidence being appended. This was enough. Yordi v.
Nolte, 215 U. S. 227, 231, 232. Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S.
371, 375, 376. Glucksman v. Henkel, 221 U. S. 508, 514.
The crime charged is embezzlement or peculation of the
public funds between May, 1922, and February 1, 1923,
while a public officer of the United States of Mexico, to
wit, the Cashier of the Department of Special Taxes. The
crime is within the treaty and sufficiently alleged. The
warrant is said to be bad because it names Mariano Viamonte, and not Mariano Viamonte Fernandez, the appellant. He is named both ways in the proceedings and is
identified by testimony. There is nothing in this objection, if a warrant is required.
The final objection is that there is no evidence that
the defendant is guilty of the crime charged. This is
rather a bold contention seeing that upon the evidence
the appellant was Cashier in the Department of Special
Taxes, had sole charge of the money, kept the books in
his own handwriting, that those books disclose a considerable deficit in the cash, and that he fled the country. He
is said to have gambled. On his books the appellant
mingled two classes of accounts and by so doing made detection difficult if he was guilty. First there are the items

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

of cash actually received and paid out entered respectively
under the heads ingress and egress. But besides these were
other transactions called virtual in which he did not receive the cash but was to enter a series of debits and credits. These concerned the petroleum tax, which was a
stamp tax. The taxpayers handed to the national treasurer their tax returns, called manifestations, paid their tax
and received from him a memorandum receipt. The
manifestation and receipt then were handed to the appellant. He forwarded the receipt to the comptroller and
entered the amount in his egress column. He should then
send the manifestation to the stamp department, which
put on the proper stamps and returned it to appellant,
the amount being entered as ingress. In the interval between the egress and the ingress, he appeared as having
paid out so much money and could use that amount until
it was necessary to enter the cross item. As the taxpayers
were not very prompt in calling for their papers it was
possible for him to keep their manifestations for a time
without charging himself, withdraw the amount with
which he should charge himself for them and present an
account that was correct upon its face. By repeating the
process it was possible to disguise an embezzlement for a
considerable time. This is what from his books he seems
to have done. It is unnecessary to go into greater detail.
We are of opinion that probable cause to believe the defendant guilty was shown by competent evidence and that
the judgment remanding the appellant must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

in this decision.

was absent and took no part

