OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Syllabus.

the provision is, that where a real question of a difficult point
of law, clearly presenting itself and arising in the progress of
the case, is such that the two judges sitting on the hearing
differ in opinion in regard to that question, they are at liberty
to certify it to this court for an answer. But it never was
designed that, because a case is a troublesome one, or is a new
one, and because the judges trying the case may not be perfectly satisfied as regards all the points raised in the course of
the trial, the whole matter shall be referred to this court for
its decision in advance of a regular trial, or that, in any event,
the whole case shall be thus brought before this court.
Such a system converts the Supreme Court into a nisiyrius
trial court; whereas, even in cases which come here for review in the ordinary course of judicial proceeding, we are always and only an appellate court, except in the limited class
of cases where the court has original jurisdiction. See UJnited
States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208; United States v. iYorthway, 120
U. S. 327 ; Dublin Townsip v. _itford Institution, 128 U. S.
510; and specially, Jewell v. _night,123 U. S. 426, 432, where
all the cases are cited.
For these reasons
IFe cannot take jurisdiction of the _present case, and it
is ordered that it be remanded to the Circuit Court for
suchfurtherproeedingsas it may be advised to be2roer.

UNITED STATES v. REILLY.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE DISTRICT OF
CALIFOR NIA.
No. 1036. Submitted April 9, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

No statute of the United States authorizes a commissioner of a Circuit
Court to administer an oath to a deputy surveyor of the United States in
regard to the manner in which he fulfilled a contract for surveying public land.
United States v. Hall, ante, 50, affirmed and applied to the certificate of
division in opinion in this case.

U NITED STATES v. REILLY.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion. This cause coming on to
be heard next after United States v. Hall, ante, 50, and
United States v. Perrin,ante, 55, the court declined to hear
argument upon it.

3Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Walter kf. Srzith, .Mr. Frank ff. -Hurd,and .r2. WiTliarb 1. Stewar't for defendant in error.
MRh. JUSTicE

MLLEr delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, upon a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges holding that court.
It arises out of an indictment against the defendant, M. F.
Reilly, in which he is charged with falsely certifying, as a
commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States for
that circuit, to an oath or affidavit taken before him by one
Charles Holcomb.
The indictment sets out that Hfolcomb, as a deputy United
States surveyor, had a contract similar to that recited in the
previous case of United States v. -Hall,ante, 50, by which contract it was necessary that he should make affidavit that he
had personally rendered the service required by it before he
could obtain the certificate of the surveyor general, William
H. Brown, or his successor in office, upon which he could draw
compensation for that service. The indictment alleges that,
instead of making such affidavit, he, or some one for him,
procured the defendant, iReilly, who was a commissioner appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States under the
act of Congress on that subject, to make out the form of an
affidavit, and certify to it under his seal as such commissioner;
when in fact no such oath wan taken by Hlolcomb, nor any
For this offence Reilly is
such affidavit made by him.
indicted.
A demurrer to this indictment was filed, alleging eight
different objections to it, and on the argument of that demurrer the judges holding the Circuit Court certified to us

