HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Statement of the Case.

master in his first report, and direct a modification of the
decree accordingly, if, upon the return of the case to the
Circuit Court, it is found, in view of our decision in respect
to the discharge of Erwin and the sureties on the bond of
Erwin and Gray, that Mrs. Rice is not concluded by the
accounting at the time of such discharge.
.Decree 'reversed, and cause remanded with directions to _proceed in conformity with this opinion.

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 266. Argued April 22, 23, 1889.- Decided May 13, 18S9.

In the absence of fraud, stockholders are bound by a decree against their
corporation in respect to corporate matters, and such a decree is not open
to collateral attack.
Statutes of limitation do not commence to run as against subscriptions to
stock, payable as called for, until a call or its equivalent has been had,
and subscribers cannot object when an assessment td pay debts has been
made, that the corporate duty in this regard had not been earlier discharged. 01
Rules applicable to a going corporation, remain applicable notwithstanding
it may have become insolvent and ceased to carry on its operations,
where, as in this case, it continues in the possession and exercise of ail
corporate powers essential to the collection of debts, the enforcement of
liabilities and the application of assets to the payment of creditors.
Stockholders of record are liable for unpaid instalments, although they
may have in fact parted with their stock, or may have held it for others.
The objection that too large an amount of interest has been included in a
judgment cannot be raised for the first time in this court.

THE court stated the case in its opinion as follows:
John Glenn, trustee of the National Express and Transportation Company, brought an action at law, November 5, 1883,
against William J. Hawkins, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of North Carolina, alleging

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

that Hawkins, on or about November 1, 1865, subscribed for
two hundred and fifty shares of the capital stock of that company, a body corporate of the State of Virginia, and thereby
undertook and promised to pay for each and every share so
subscribed for by said defendant the sum of one hundred'dollars, in such instalments and at such times as he might be lawfully called upon and required to pay the same, according to
the law under which the company was incorporated; that on
the 20th day of September, 1866, the express company, by its
deed of that date, assigned and transferred to Hoge, O'Donnell, and Kelly, for the benefit of its creditors, all its property,
rights, credits and effects of every kind, in trust for the payment of the debts of said company; that afterwards, in a certain cause instituted in the Chancery Court of the city of Richmond, in the State of Virginia, in which the official administrator of W. W. Glenn, deceased, and other persons, claiming
to be creditors of the express company, were complainants,
and said company, Kelly and Hoge, surviving trustees, and
other persons, officers of said company, were defendants, it
was, on the 14th day of December, 1880, decreed that plaintiff
be, and he thereby was, appointed trustee to execute the trusts
of the deed of trust in the room and stead of the trustees originally created by said deed; and it was further decreed that a
large amount of the debts of the express company remained
unpaid, and that, of the sum of one hundred dollars for each
and every share of the stock of the company undertaken and
promised to be paid *for by the subscribers for said stock and
their assigns, the sum of eighty dollars per share had *neverbeen
called for or required to be paid by the president and directors
of said company, and remained liable to be called for and required to be paid by the subscribers for said stock and their
assigns; and it was further decreed, that it was necessary and
proper for a call of thirty per cent to be made, which call and
assessment was accordingly ordered; and that, by force of his
subscription and said call, the defendant was liable to pay the
sunrof $7500 on his shares of stock, with interest.
Hawkins filed his answer January 28, 1884, in which he said
that he subscribed for two hundred of the two hundred and

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Statement of the Case.

fifty shares for other persons than himself, and that he was not
liable thereon. He denied that he owed anything on account
of any of said shares, and averred that the plaintiff was not
the proper plaintiff, and "that the plaintiff's cause of action
did not accrue within three years before the commencement of
this action."
Upon the trial of the cause the plaintiff adduced evidence
tending to show that in March, 1861, a corporation had been
chartered by the legislature of the State of Virginia, to be
known as the Southern Express Company, but that no organization was had thereunder; that in 1865 it was proposed to adopt
the said charter as the basis of action for the formation of a
new and larger enterprise of the same kind; that, accordingly,
in November of that year, subscriptions having been made to
the capital stock in many States, a provisional organization was
effected in which the defendant Hawkins was named as one of
the directors, and the business of the company was commenced
and actively prosecuted; that on the 12th day of December,
1865, a new and amended charter was granted by the legislature of Virginia for a company to be known as the "National
Express and Transportation Company," the defendant being
named therein as one of the corporators; that the capital
stock was authorized to be five million dollars, divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each, of which a part was payable at the time of subscribing and the balance as called for by
the president and directors; that in January, 1866, the provisions of the charter having been complied with, the corporation was duly organized, the defendant being one of the
directors; that in September, 1866, having contracted many
debts, and finding itself much embarrassed, it executed a deed
of assignment, conveying and assigning in trust to trustees,
for the benefit of all its creditors, all of its property, including
the unpaid subscriptions to the capital stock, of which only
twenty per cent had been called for by the president and
directors; and that the trustees took possession of the assets
November 1, 1866, and the business of the company ceased.
Plaintiff further put in evidence the transcript of the record
of the proceedings in the Chancery Court of the city of RichvoL. cxxx-21

OCTOBER TERMTY,

1888.

Statement of the Case

mond, referred to in plaintiff's declaration, in which, upon a
general creditor's bill brought in 1871, against the said company, and its president and directors, and the surviving trustees
in said deed of assignment, the court had, by a decree entered
on the 14th day of December, 1880, adjudicated the indebtedness of the said company to require an assessment of thirty
per cent of the unpaid subscriptions for the payment of the
same, and the necessity and propriety of an assessment of thirty
per cent upon the unpaid subscriptions for the payment of the
said indebtedness, and the substitution of the plaintiff as trustee to receive and collect the said assessment; and then the
plaintiff introduced in evidence the stock books of said company showing the following entries as to the defendant
Hawkins:

a6

To wom transferred.

a5

00

1886.1865.

F~eb. 5

Mf.Bowes

. . ..

436

302

10 50 Nov. I Company 299 to 303

eo.tB.
ater ouse
B. P.0 illiamson
le H. B. ate, ir.

437
43
439

302
302
802

10
10
10

50
50
50

',Vm. E. Anderson .

440

02

10

50

250 $1250

The defendant testified that he subscribed for two hundred
and fifty shares under the following circumstances: That at
the instance of three other citizens of North Carolina, viz.,
IK. P. Battle, J. M. Hoge and B. P. Williamson, he went to
Richmond in the fall of 1865, and proposed to the parties
superintending the reception of subscriptions, to take fifty
shares each for the above named persons, and one hundred
shares for himself, having in contemplation other parties who
'might wish to take fifty shares of this one hundred; that the
superintendent suggested that it would be more convenient to
place his name only upon the books as subscriber for the whole
two hundred and fifty shares, and this was done, the initials
of the three persons being at the same time indorsed as a

HA4WKINS v. GLENN.
Statement of the Case.

memorandum on the subscription paper; that in January, 1866,
when the company was organized, he, being one of the directors, informed the board of directors of the terms of his
subscription as above, and no objection was, made thereto;
that he instructed the officer of the company whose business
it was to issue certificates of stock to issue five for fifty shares
each, three of them in the names of the above parties and two
to himself, and at the same time paid two hundred and fifty
dollars which had been assessed upon the two hundred and
fifty shares, one hundred and fifty dollars of which he had received from his principals, but that he had receipted for such
certificates upon the books of the company; that shortly afterwards the five certificates were transmitted to him in North
Carolina, all five being made out in his name only; that he
did not return either of them to the company, but immediately
transferred each of the three in question to the party for
whom it was intended; and that only one of the certificates
was ever transferred upon the books of the company.
The court instructed the jury to find for the plaintiff, and
the defendant excepted. The jury returned a verdict in favor
of plaintiff for $9508.75, "of which $7500 is principal, and
bears interest from June 1, 18,5,, upon which judgment was
rendered and a writ of error prosecuted to this court.
The record of the Chancery Court of the city of Richmond
shows that W. W. Glenn recovered judgment in the Superior
Court of Baltimore City, against the express company, by default, June 8, 1869, which was entered up for $42,501.31, on
assessment of damages, June 24, 1870, and that, on the 4th
day of December, 1871, Glenn filed his bill on his own behalf
and that of such other creditors of the express company as
might become parties to the suit, against the express company,
its president and directors, an4 the trustees named in the deed
of trust, subpcenas having issued on the 28th of November,
1871, which were served on two directors of the company.
The bill sets forth the recovery of the judgment; that the
trustees had collected little or nothing; that the visible property of the company had been seized by creditors in various
States; that only twenty per cent had been called for from

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

the stockholders, of which the trustees had collected but little;
that the validity and legal effect of the deed had been drawn
in question in the courts of various States, and the operations
of the trustees hindered; that it would be necessary to resort
to the remainder of the subscription to pay the company's
debts, and stockholders could not be sued until a call had been
made by the company; that doubts had been expressed whether
the subscriptions passed by the deed; that, if they did, the
trustees could not sue without a call; and that equity demanded
that money should be collected by a call and assessment upon
all the stockholders. The bill prayed for a construction of the
deed, the appointment of a receiver, an adcount, and the ascertainment of the amount necessary to be assessed for the
purpose of paying the debts, etc., and for general relief.
N~othing further was done until August 4, 1879, when an
amended and supplemental bill was filed asking that the trustees be removed and a new trustee be appointed, and that if
the company should make no assessment upon the stockholders
the court might make one. This amended bill charged that
nothing had been done by the company or the trustees in execution of the trust, or to pay creditors; that the books of the company had been retained by one of the two surviving trustees,
who were non-residents, the third trustee being dead, etc. It
does not appear that process was issued against the company
upon the original bill, but upon the amended and supplemental
bill a subpcena was issued against it, its officers, directors, and
trustees, and this was served upon two directors and a cashier
of the company, and published for four weeks in a newspaper
in the city of Richmond.
The surviving trustees, Hoge and Kelly, filed answers setting
forth in detail a variety of causes which had operated to delay
and impede their proceedings, und furnished excuses for their
apparent laches, particularly litigation in Maryland and New
York, in which injunctions were granted, and, in one of the
suits, a receiver was appointed, to whom the books and papers
of the company were consigned, and when returned, on the
disposition of that case, after the lapse of some years, they
were carried to New York.

HAWKINS v. GLENN.

"325

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A decree pro confesso was taken against the company in
September, 18'19, and an interlocutory order entered on the 6th
of October following, referring the case to one of the commissioliers of the court to take an account of the debts due by the
company and the priorities thereof, and an account of its assets,
etc., upon giving due notice by publication, which he did. The
commissioner made report ascertaining the total of indebtedness, and the whole amount of unpaid stock; and he recommended an assessment of twenty per cent. By a supplemental
report an increase of the assessment was recommended, and a
decree was. finally rendered, December 14, 1880, sustaining the
deed of trust, substituting John Glenn as trustee, holding that
the power to make assessment remained with the company after
the deed was executed, finding the amount of the indebtedness and that there was no property to pay the debts except
the eighty per cent unpaid of the capital stock, and ordering
an assessment of thirty per cent, payable to Glenn, trustee,
who was thereby authorized to collect and receive the same.
Mr. S&mue F. Phillips (with whom were 2r. W. IE.
Lamar and Mr. J. G. Zachry on the brief) for plaintiff in
error:

I. Interest upon the call accrued only from actual demand
upon the defendant. The decree for a call was made nearly
thirteen years after the company stopped business. The defendant was not a party to the suit. Under these circumstances he is
not chargeable with neglect for non-compliance with the order,
until actually notified of it. The language of this court in
Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56, is to be taken in connection with
the contention made in that case that a stockholder is not
bound at all by a call made in a cause to which he is not a
party. We do not deny that he is bound by it. We only maintain that he is not chargeable with laches for not obeying it
until he is notified of its requirements. Hunt v. ._evers, 15
Pick. 500, 505; -. C. 26 Am. Dec. 616. A call by the court
is not a decree for the money included in the call. Glenn
v. S'axton, 68 California, 353.
II. The defendant is not responsible for the subscription to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the 150 shares taken by him for solvent and named principals
and for which it was, at the time of the subscription, agreed
between the parties that he should not be liable. As between
him and the company he could not have been held liable.
Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, 153. This action is brought
by a substitute for the trustees who were created by the voluntary act of the company. That substitute is bound to all to
which the company itself would have been bound, if it had
been plaintiff. Wisnern v. .Brown, 122 U. S. 214.
The rule that if an agent bind himself upon the face of a
written contract he cannot discharge himself therefrom by
showing that he did so merely as agent, does not apply to
cases like this, in which courts of law are authorized by statute
to admit equitable pleas. Wake v. 11arrop, 6 H. & N. 768;
S. C. 1 H. & O. 202.
III. The cause of action did not accrue within three years.
To consider the circumstances of the present case more closely:
(1) It is essentially unlike the case of a call made by the
authorities of a corporation still doing business. For in that
case the subscriber has contracted that such authorities may
call as and when in their judgment the affairs of the company
may require it; and the state of things contemplated at the
time of subscription is still going on. Therefore in that case
it may very well be that, although no call has been made upon
unpaid subs6riptions within ten years or more, the statute of
limitations has no application. .Modius et conventio vincunt
legem. The case may be the same where a promise has been
made to pay money so many days after demand and there is
no context showing that such demand was to be made within
a limited time; for there, if the bolder makes no demand [i.e.,
call] for ten years or more, he is authorized by the contract so
to delay, and the statute is inapplicable for the reason just
stated.
(2) The period of time in the present case whose lapse is
supposed to have given effect to the statute of limitations
was a period during the whole of which the provision in the
subscription as affected by the Virginia statute, which submits the subscriber to the discretion of "the president and

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Argument for DefendAnt in Error.

directors " as to the time at which calls might be made, had
become null, and the latter had, in respect of calls, become
subject to the general principles of courts of justice. It is not
because a debtor has contracted to be subject to the judgment
of a court, whether for a call or otherwise, that such judgment
is given. Judicial action, in that case only, supervenes upon
the state of things which the contract had created, in the
same way that it does upon like states created by torts. In re
Glen
Welsh Ilannel and Tweed Co., L. R. 20 Eq. 360; In 'ie
b'on Works, 20 Fed. Rep. 674.
If the suit for a call is to be considered as a mere incident
to the suit to recover the amount called, it follows that inasmuch as after the stoppage of business the time of making a
call was no longer matter of discretion, but was subject to the
notice and direction of tho law, the lapse of time before making application for such call (the bringing suit therefor) is to
be counted in reckoning, under the statute of limitations,
whether the suit subsequently brought under such call has
been brought in good time. .Diefenthalerv. _TNew York City,
111 N. Y. 331; Borst v. Corey, 15 N. Y. 505; Glenn v. .Dorsheiner, 23 Fed. Rep. 695; Atchison & Toyeka Railroad v.
Burlingame, 36 Kansas, 628; Chalgfn v. .Moore, 9 B. YXon.
496; S. C. 50 Am. Dec. 525; Pittsburg &b Connellsville Railroad v. Byers, 32 Penn. St. 22 ; S.C. 72 Am. Dec. 770 ; Afor'ison v. Mullin, 34 Penn. St. 12; Feither v. Foster, 22 Ohio
St. 27; Palmer v. Palmer,36 Mich. 487.
.Mr.Wilbur F. Boyle, by special permission of court, also
addressed the court for plaintiff in error. X2l. John V. .Dryden was with him on his brief.
-Mr. Charles Marshall and Mr. John Howard for defendant
in error. Their brief contained the following list of reported
cases in which one or more of the questions involved in the
present case had been tried and adjudicated.
In the Court of Appeals of Virginia. Vanderweohen v. Glenn,.
6 S. E: Rep. 806; Lewis's Adm'nr. v. Glenn, 6 S. E. Rep. 866;
JHarbleton,v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 242.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Supreme Court of Alabama. Glenn v. Semple, 80
Alabama, 159;'.Lehman, &c. v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 302; Semple v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 305;
Sayre v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 307; .Morris V.
Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 224.
In the Court of Appeals of Maryland. Glenn v. Williams,
60 Maryland, 93; Glenn v. Clabaugh,65 Maryland, 65; Glenn
v. Howard, 65 Maryland, 40; Glenn v. Savage, 65 Maryland,
40; .o!Kim v. Glenn, 66 Maryland, 479.
In North Carolina. Glenn v. On-, 96 North Carolina, 413.
In Georgia. Glenn v. HUoward, 8 S. E. Rep. 636.
In California. Glenn v. Saxton, 68 California, 353.
In the Federal Courts. Glenn v. Camden, Glenn v. Bennett, Glenn v. Bland, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of West Virginia, reported in Parkersburg State Journal of June 25th and 26th of 1886. Glenn v.
Jackson and Glenn v. Calaway, before the late Judge Baxter,
reported in the Louisville Courier-Journal, October 31, 1885..
Glenn v. Dorsheimer, 23 Fed. Rep. 695; S. C. 24 Fed. Rep.
536; Glenn v. Springs, 26 Fed. Rep. 494:; Glenn v. Scott, 28
Fed. Rep. 804; Glenn v. Coyle, 22 Fed. Rep. 417; Glenn v.
Soule, 22 Fed. Rep. 417; Foote v. Glenn, 36 Fed. Rep. 824.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE FuLLEa
court.

delivered the opinion of the

Counsel for plaintiff in error contends that the decree of
the Richmond Chancery Court making the call and assessment was void as against him, because he was not a party to
the suit; that the cause of action was barred by the statute
of limitations; that he was not responsible upon one hundred
and fifty shares of the stock; and that interest should not
have been allowed from the date of the call, but only from
the time of the filing of the complaint.
The jurisdiction of the Richmond Chancery Court to settle
.the construction of the deed of trust, to remove the original
trustees and substitute another, and to ascertain the extent of
the liabilities and assets of the corporation, is not denied. It

HAWKINS

v. GLENN.

Opinion of the Court.

is conceded that the balance remaining unpaid on subscriptions to stock is a trust fund for the payment of corporate
debts and that a judgment obtained against a corporation cannot be impeached except for fraud.
But it is said that a binding assessment cannot be levied
without the presence of the stockholders or service of process
or notice upon them.
Under the charter of this company a call could only be
made by the president and directors and was a corporate
question merely, and in the situation of the company's affairs
it was a duty to make it, failing the discharge of which by the
president and directors, creditors could, set the powers of a
court of equity in motion to accomplish it.
Executing in that regard a corporate function for a corpo-.
rate purpose, it is difficult to see upon what ground it could
be held that the court could not order an assessment operating upon stockholders, who would be bound if the president
and directors had ordered it.
Sued after such an order of court, the defendant does not
deny the existence of any one of the facts upon which the
order was made, but contends that there has been no call as
to him, because he was not a party to the cause between creditor and corporation. We understand the rule to be otherwise, and that the stockholder is bound by a decree of a court
of equity against the corporation in enforcement of a corporate duty, although not a party as an individual, but only
through representation by the company.
A stockholder is so far an integral part of the corporation
that, in the view of the law, he is privy to the proceedings
touching the body of which he is a member. Sanger v.
Upton, 91 U. S. 56, 58, in which case it is also said: "It was
not necessary that the stockholders should be before the court
when it [the order] was made, any more than that they should
have been there when the decree of bankruptcy was pronounced. That decree gave the jurisdiction and authority to
make the order. The plaintiff in error could not, in this action, question the validity of the decree; and for the same
reasons she could not draw into question the validity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

order. She could not be heard to question either, except by a
separate and direct proceeding had for that purpose." As
against creditors there is no difference between unpaid stock
"and any other assets which may form a part of the property
and effects of the corporation," (A[orga, County v. Allen, 103
U. S. 498, 509,) and "the stockholder has no right to withhold
the funds of the company upon the ground that ho was not
individually a party to the proceedings in which the recovery
was obtained." Glenn v. Jilliams,60 Maryland, 93, 116. In
the last cited case, which was an action to recover upon the
assessment controverted here, the Court of Appeals of Maryland passed upon the question now before us, and held in an
able opinion by Alvey, J., that the Richmond Chancery Court
acquired jurisdiction over the express company and the trustee;
that that court had power and jurisdiction to make assessments
upon the unpaid subscriptions to raise funds to pay the corporation's debts, and its decree making such assessment was binding and effective "upon the stockholders who were not in their
individual capacities parties to the cause;" that Glenn was
legally appointed trustee; and that the statute of limitations
began to run only from the time the assessment was made by
the decree of the court in Virginia and could form no bar to
the right to recover in the action. Sanger v. Upton, supra, is
quoted from, and it is correctly stated that that decision "was
made not in pursuance of any express provision of the bankrupt law, but in analogy to the powers and procedure of a
court of equity and to meet the requirements and justice of
the case."
In Eimleton v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 242, [decided in the Court of Appeals of Virginia Mkfarch 14, 1889, and
not yet reported in the official series,] the rejection by the
Circuit Court of ilenrico County, Virginia, to which the suit
in the Richmond Chancery Court had been removed, of a petition of certain stockholders to be made parties, and for a rehearing of the cause, came under review in the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia, and that court among other things
said: "The first question raised in this court is that the appellants are entitled to be made parties to the suit of Glenn v.

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Opinion of the Court.

3ationaZ Expn'ess and Transportation Comnpany, because the
relief sought is against them. The suit of Glenn v. The NSational Express and Tr'ansportationCompany is a creditor's suit
against a corporation, and, by the terms of its charter and
the laws of this State applicable to said company, it was lawfully sued as such by its corporate name, and the individual
stockholders were not proper parties to such a suit, the president and directors being by their selection their representatives for this purpose. The appellants admit this as to any
live and going corporation, and claim, as the corporation is
dead, that by its deed of trust it assigned to trustees and
ceased to exist; that in a suit by a creditor, or by creditors
generally, the suit against the corporation is in fact one not
against the corporation, but against them as stockholders, and
they are not represented by the company nor by the trustees.
By the law of this State,. (Code of 1873, c. 56, ยง 31,) 'when
any corporation shall expire or be dissolved, or its corporate
rights and privileges shall have ceased, all its works and-property, and debts due to it, shall be subject to the payment of
debts due by it. and then to distribution among the members
according to their respective interests; and such corporation
may sue and be sued as before, for the purpose of collecting
debts due to it, prosecuting rights under previous contracts
with it, and enforcing its liabilities, and distributing the proceeds of its works, property and debts, among those entitled
thereto.' By which it is provided that, notwithstanding its
death, it stands, _for the purpose of being sued by creditors,
just as it did while live and going, and may sue and be sued
as before, and that the directory has assigned to trustees alters
the case only so far as to make the trustees necessary parties."
The section quoted from the Code of 1873 is identical with
section 30 of chapter 56 of the Code of 1860; and as the corporation, notwithstanding it may have ceased the prosecution
of the objects for which it was organized, could still proceed
in the collection of debts, the enforcement of liabilities, and
the application of its assets to the payment of its creditors,
all corporate powers essential to these ends remained unimpaired. We concur in the decision to this effect of the highest

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

tribunal of the State where the corporation dwelt, in reference
to whose laws the stockholders contracted, (Canada Southern
Railway v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527,) and in whose courts the
creditors were obliged to seek the remedy accorded. Barclay
v. Tallman, 4 Edw. Ch. 123; Bank of Jirginiav. Adams, 1
Parsons Sel. Cas. 534; Pattersonv. Lynde, 112 Illinois, 196.
We think it cannot be doubted that a decree against a corporation in respect to corporate matters, such as the making
of an assessment in the discharge of a duty resting on the
corporation, necessarily binds its members in the absence of
fraud, and that this is involved in the contract created in
becoming a stockholder.
The decree of the Richmond Chancery Court determined
the validity of the assessment; and that the lapse of time between the failure of the company and the date of the decree
did not preclude relief, by creating a bar through statutes of
limitation or the application of the doctrine of laches. And
so it has been held in numerous cases referred to on the argument. The court may have erred in its conclusions, but its
decree cannot be attacked collaterally, and, indeed, upon a
direct attack, it has already been sustained by the Virginia
Court of Appeals. l-ambletoin v. Glenn, supra.
Some further observations may not inappropriately be added.
Unpaid subscriptions are assets, but have frequently been
treated by courts of equity as if impressed with a trust sub
modo, upon the view that, the corporation being insolvent,
the existence of creditors subjects these liabilities to the rules
applicable to funds to be accounted for as held in trust, and
that therefore statutes of limitation do not commence to run
in respect to them, until the retention -of the money has become adverse by a refusal to pay upon due requisition.
But the conclusion as to the statute need not be rested on
that ground; for, although the occurrence of the necessity of
resorting to unpaid stock may be said to fix the liability of the
subscriber to respond, he cannot be allowed to insist that the
amount required to discharge him became instantly payable
though unascertained, and though there was no request, or its
equivalent, for payment.

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Opinion of the Court.

And here there was a deed of trust made by the debtor corporation for the benefit of its creditors, and it has been often
ruled in Virginia, that the lien of such a trust deed is not

barred by any period short of that sufficient to raise a presumption of payment. smith v. -irginia.Midland Railroad,
33 Grattan, 617; Bowie v. The Poor School, 75 Virginia, 300;
Hfambleton v. Glenn, 13 Virginia Law Journal, 242. This
deed was not only upheld and enforced by the decree of December 14, 1880, but also the power of the substituted trustee
to collect the assessment by suit in his own name, was declared
by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, in -Lewis'sAdministrator
v. Glenn, 6 S. E. Rep. 866.
See also Baltimore & Ohio
Rlailroadv. Glenn, 28 Maryland, 287.
By the deed the subscriptions, so far as uncalled for, passed
to the trustees, and the creditors were limited to the relief
which could be afforded under it, while the stockholders could
be subjected only to equality of assessment, and as the trustees could not collect except upon call, and had themselves no
power to make one, rendering resort to the president and directors necessary, or, failing their action, then to the courts, it is
very clear that the statute of limitations could not commence
to rn until after the call was made.
The rule laid down in Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, 155,
applies. In that case it was said by Air. Justice Woods, speaking for the court: "Thdre was no obligation resting on the
stockholder to pay at all until some authorized demand in behalf of creditors was made for payment. The defendant owed
the creditors nothing, and he owed the company nothing save
such unpaid portion of his stock as might be necessary to satisfy the claims of the creditors. Upon the bankruptcy of the
company, his obligation was to pay to the assignees, upon demand, such an amount upon his unpaid stock as would be sufficient, with the other assets of the company, to pay its debts.
He was under no obligation to pay any more, and he was
under no obligation to pay anything until the amount necessary for him to pay was at least approximately ascertained.
Until then his obligation to pay did not become complete."
And it was held, "that when stock is subscribed to be paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

upon call of the company, and the company refuses or neglects
to make the call, a court of equity may itself make the call, if
the interests of the creditors require it. The court will do
what it is the duty of the company to do. .

.

. But under such

circumstances, before there is any obligation upon the stockholder to pay without an assessment and call by the company,
there must be some order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
or, at the very least, some authorized demand upon him for
payment; and it is clear the statute of limitations does not
begin to run in his favor until such order or demand."
Constituting, as unpaid subscriptions do, a fund for the payment of corporate debts, when a creditor has exhausted his
legal remedies against the corporation which fails to make an
assessment, he may, by bill in equity or other appropriate
means, subject such subscriptions to the satisfaction of his
judgment, and the stockholder cannot then object that no call
has been made. As between creditor and stockholder, "it
would seem to be singular if the stockholders could protect
themselves from paying what they owe by setting up the default of their own agents." Hatch v. Dana, 101 U. S. 205,
214. The condition that a call shall be made is, under such
circumstances, as Mr. Justice Bradley remarks in the natter
of Glen Iron,. Works, 20 Fed. Rep. 674, 681, "but a spider's
web, which the first breath of the law blows away." And as
between the stockholder and the corporation, it does not lie in
the mouth of the stockholder to say, in response to the attempt
to collect his subscription, for the payment of creditors, that
the claim is barred because the company did not discharge its
corporate duty in respect to its creditors earlier. County of
-Morgan v. Allen, 103 U. S. 498.
These considerations dispose of the alleged error in not sustaining the defence of the statutory bar.
By ยง 26, c. 57, Tit. 18, "Chartered Companies" of the
Virginia Code of 1873, (p. 551,) it is provided that "no stock
shall be assigned on the books without the consent of the company, until all the money which has become payable thereon
shall have been paid; and on any assignment the assignee and
assignor shall each be liable for any instalments which may

HAWKINS v. GLENN.
Opinion of the Court.

have accrued, or which may thereafter accrue, and may be
proceeded against in the manner before provided." And this
was the provision of the Code of 1860, (c. 57, Tit. 18, ยง 24,)
and in .HTambleton v. Glenn, supra, it was held "that under
that section the assignee and assignor are liable for any instalment which may have accrued or which may hereafter
accrue," and to the same effect is .fcim v. Glenn, 66
Maryland, 479.
Defendant claims that of the two hundred and fifty shares
for which he subscribed, he took one hundred and fifty shares
for three other persons. The stock ledger shows that five
certificates of fifty shares each were sent to defendant, made
out in his name; and it appears from his evidence that he
transferred three certificates for fifty shares each to Hoge,
Battle and Williamson, though they failed to have them
transferred to their own names on the books of the company.
Of the remaining one hundred shares, defendant retained fifty
and transferred the other fifty to five other persons whom
he had anticipated, when he subscribed, might take them.
So far as appears from the stock register the plaintiff remained
the original owner of two hundred shares and the assignor
of fifty, and no error is assigned as to this fifty.
Section 25 of c. 57, Tit. 18, of the Code of Virginia of 1860,
is as follows: "A person in whose name shares of stock stand
on the books of a company shall be deemed the owner thereof
as it regards the company." Code of 1873, Tit. 18, c. 57, ยง 27.
So far as creditors were concerned, Hawkins remained a
shareholder as to the two hundred shares. Pullman v. Upton,
96 U. S. 328; Richmond v. b'ons, 121 U. S. 27; Upton v.
Ti-ibilock-, 91 U. S.45.
The judgment of the Circuit Court cannot be disturbed
because the defendant was held liable on two hundred and fifty
shares. "
It is also objected that interest upon the amount called
should have been allowed from the date of the commencement
of the suit and not from the date of the decree, but the
difficulty with this contention is, that there was no motion
for a new trial in the case. The court, so far as appears, gave

