OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

cannot suppose thaV his removal from that State,. nineteen
years before that contract was made, can be regarded, under
the statute of Virginia, as an obstruction to the plaintiff's
prosecution of his action. The statute, so far as it relates to
obstructions caused by a defendant having departed from the
State, means that, being a resident of Virginia when the cause
of action accrues against him, and being then suable in that
State, the defendant shall not, in computing the time in which
he must be sued, have the benefit of any absence caused by
his departure after such right of action accrued, and before
the expiration of the period limited for the bringing of suit.
The plaintiff was at liberty to sue the defendant wherever he
could find him. Having elected to sue him in Virginia, the
courts sitting there must give effect to the limitation prescribed by her law, without any saving in favor of the plaintiff on account of 'the defendant's removal prior to the making
of any contract whatever with the plaintiff.
The judgment is
Reversed, with directions to grant a new trial, and for
further proeedings in conformity with this opinion.

MELLEN v. MOLIWE MALLEABLE IRON WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 250. Argued April 16, 1889. -Decided

STATES FOR

May 13, 1889.

A suit instituted by a creditor of a corporation, on his own behalf and on
behalf of other unsecured creditors, to set aside a conveyance of its real
estate and a mortgage of its personal property, both made by the corporation.in trust to secure certain preferred creditors, including among them
a director of the corporation, and also to procure a dissolution of the
corporation, and the closing up of its business, is a suit brought to remove an incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to such property
within the meaning of § 8 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 472, c.
137, which authorizes a Circuit Court of the United States to summon in
an absent defendant, and to Iexercise jurisdiction over his rights in the
property in suit within the jurisdiction of the court.

MELLEN v. MOLINE IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case.
It is not necessary that the creditor of an insolvent corporation should
obtain judgment on his claim, and take out execution and exhaust his
remedies at law, in order to invoke the jurisdiction of a court of equity
in his favor to remove an incumbrance or cloud or lien upon the title of
the corporation's property, under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470,
c. 137.
An adjudication that a particular case is of equitable jurisdiction is not void,
even if erroneous, and cannot be disturbed by a collateral attack.
A sale of the trust property which is in dispute in a cause pending in a court
of equity, made by the receiver by order of court, and after full compliance with its directions as to notice, is not open to attack by one who
is subsequently summoned into the suit, if there has been no fraud, no
sacrifice of the property, or no improvidence; since the proceeds of
the sale take the place of the property, and all his rights in the latter are
transferred to the former.
The proceedings in this case to remove the incumbrance upon the property
of the Moline Iron Works, which are set forth and described in the
opinion of the court, conformed to the requirements of the act of March
3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
Purchasers of property involved in a pending suit may be admitted as
parties, in the discretion of the court; but they cannot demand, as of
absolute right, to be made parties, nor can they complain if they are
compelled to abide by whatever decree the court may render, within the
limits of its power, in respect to the interest their vendor had in the property purchased by them pendente lite.

Tnis was an appeal from a final decree sustaining a plea in
bar to a suit brought by the appellants, and dismissing their
bill of complaint for want of equity.
On the 23d of June, 1883, the Moline Malleable Iron -orks,
an Illinois corporation doing business at Moline, in that State,
executed a deed, which was duly acknowledged and recorded,
conveying to Charles F. Hemenway several lots or parcels of
land in that city. The deed recited that S. W. Wheelock and
A. L. Carson had been induced by the grantor, which was in
need of money to carry on its business, to guarantee, by indorsing, its commercial paper to the extent of $49,000, (of
which $48,500 was then outstanding and unpaid,) by the promise to protect the same by a lien on those premises; and that
George H. Hill, of Ohio, and the J. S. Keator Lumber Company, had been induced by it to guarantee, in the same way,
other of its commercial paper, the former to the extent of
$20,000, and the latter to the extent of $1000. It also recited
VOL. cxxxi-23

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

that the grantor had agreed with each of the guarantors to
meet said paper as it fell due, so that neither of them should
be subjected to any liability, loss, cost, damage, or expense, by
reason of having severally made such guarantees or indorsements. The conveyance to Hemenway was in trust to secure
and protect said guarantors, respectively, against all liability
arising from such indorsements, with power in the trustee,
upon the request of either guarantor, or of his legal representatives- if, at the time of such request, there existed any liability upon the part of the person so requesting -to foreclose
the deed and sell and convey the property, and out of the proceeds, after paying the expenses of foreclosure and sale and
reasonable solicitors' fees, to pay the guarantors all costs, damages and expenses to which they may have been subjected;
"it being the intention that the property conveyed hereby
shall be understood to be for and shall stand for security to
each of the parties aforesaid, viz., Wheelock, Carson, Hill and
Keator Lumber Company, alike in proportion to the ultimate
liability to which each may be subjected; and that they shall
receive the benefit and protection, pro rata, according to the
extent of their liability and in proportion thereto."
As part of the same transaction, the Moline Malleable Iron
Works executed its chattel mortgage, which was duly acknowledged and recorded, conveying to Hemenway, upon like trusts
and conditions, certain personal property in Illinois, consisting,
in part, of malleable iron, manufactured and in process of
manufacture by the grantor.
The Moline M alleable Iron Wcrks made default in the payment of the notes, and in th< performance of its obligations as
set forth in the trust deed and chattel mortgage.
On the 12th of April, 1884, George H. Hill sold and conveyed his entire interest in the trust deed and chattel mortgage, and in the said indebtedness of $20,000, to the appellant
Mellen, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the appellant
Sophia H. Boyd.
The present suit was commenced by an original bill exhibited May 5, 1881, by said Mellen and Boyd, citizens of Ohio,
against the M,oline Malleable Iron Works, Hemenway, Whee-

MELLE1T v. MOLINE IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case.

lock, Stephen T. Walker, Carson, and Jeremiah S. Keator and
Ben. C. Keator, late partners as J. S. Keator & Son, all citizens of Illinois. The bill showed that Hill was compelled to
pay and did pay off the debt of $20,000, with the interest
accruing on the several notes, aggregating that sum.
It stated that in a suit in equity, instituted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, on the 2d day of July, 1883, by the National Furnace
Company, a corporation of Wisconsin in behalf of itself and
other general, unsecured creditors of the Moline Malleable
Iron Works against the last-named corporation, George H.
Hill, and others, the said trust deed and chattel mortgage
were assailed as null and void, as against the general creditors
of the Moline Malleable Iron Works, upon the following
grounds:
"First. Because they constitute a partial assignment for the
benefit of creditors by which said corporation seeks to prefer
the indorsers therein named in preference to the other creditors of the corporation, which said attempt your orator is
advised and believes is fraudulent and unlawful under the
statutes of the State of Illinois.
"Second. Because the said assignment does not purport to
put the said assignee in possession of said property, and the
said assignee has not actually taken possession thereof and has
not given bond to the county court of Rock Island County, a5
provided by law in the case of assignments for the benefit of
creditors, and it is not intended to file such bond or distribute
the said assigned property under the provisions of the statutes
in such cases made and provided.
"Third. That the two assignments constitute a part of the
same transaction, and that the chattel mortgage upon the personal property therein described is void as against the creditors
of the said corporation, because the said corporation has been
and still is allowed by the said assignee to manage, control,
and use the property therein described in the usual and ordinary course of business to the same extent and in the same
manner as the same were used by the said corporation before
the execution of the said chattel mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"Fourth. Because the said documents operate, and were
designed to operate, to hinder and delay the creditors of the
said Moline Malleable Iron Works in the collection of their
debts.
"Fifth. Because, as against the fair and honest creditors of
the said corporation, the preference sought to be given to the
said Hill and the said Carson, two of the directors of the said
corporation, is null and void.
"Sixth. For divers other reasons your orator has been
advised that all of the aforesaid acts and doings of the said
Moline M alleable Iron Works, as against your orator and the
other bona fide creditors of said corporation, are null and
void."
The object of that suit, as the bill in the present case averred,
was to obtain a decree dissolving the Moline Malleable Iron
Works as a corporation, closing up its business, ascertaining
the amount, as well of its assets applicable to the payment of
debts, as the extent to which its directors and officers were
liable to creditors, and adjudging that the said conveyances
executed by that corporation were fraudulent and void as to
the National Furnace Company and other creditors.
It was further alleged that the debt of the last-named corporation was not, nor was any part of it, due when it brought
said suit, and was not secured by any attachment or other
process against the property of the debtor corporation; that
it had not exhausted its legal remedies for the collection of its
debt, and had no lien or claim to the property covered by said
trust deed or mortgage; and, consequently, that the court
could not and did not acquire jurisdiction to make any valid
decree affecting the interest of said Hill.
The relief sought in the present suit, by original bill, was
the foreclosure of said trust deed and chattel mortgage, the
sale of the property, and the disposition of the proceeds according to the rights of the parties for whose protection those
instruments were executed; and this, without reference to the
proceedings and final decree in the suit of Nactional Furnace
Company v. f.Aoline Xialleable Ion Works, etc.
The defendants Sti]lman W. Wheelock, A. L. Carson, Charles

MELLEN v. MOLINE IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case.

F. Hemenway, J. S. Keator and Ben. 0. Keator filed a plea
in bar of this suit. As the correctness of the decree below
depends entirely upon the sufficiency of that plea, it is here
given in full:
"That long prior to the time when said George H. Hill sold
and conveyed to said complainant Mellen in trust, for the use
and benefit of said Sophia H. Boyd, his interest in said trust
deed and chattel mortgage, as alleged in said bill of complaint, to wit, on the 2d day of July, 1883, the said National
Furnace Company, in its own behalf and on behalf of all the
creditors of the Moline Malleable Iron Works, exhibited its
original bill of complaint in this honorable court and made
parties defendant thereto said Moline Malleable Iron Works,
Stillman W. Wheelock, George H. Hill, Amaziah L. Carson,
Charles F. Hemenway, Henry H. Hill, Stephen T. Walker,
Walter J. Entriken and the J. S. Keator Lumber Company,
thereby stating, among other things, that said National Furnace Company was a creditor of said Moline Malleable Iron
'Works, and that at the time when the said Moline Malleable
Iron Works executed the said trust deed ahd chattel mortgage
it was insolvent and its indebtedness was largely in excess of
its capital stock, and that its officers and directors had assented
to the creation of its indebtedness, and that the said conveyances were fraudulent and void as against creditors of said
Moline Malleable Iron Works, and therein and thereby prayed,
among other things, that a receiver might be appointed to
take charge of and manage the property of the said corporation under the orders of this court, and that the said trust
deed and chattel mortgage might be held and adjudged fraudulent and void as against said National Furnace Company and
creditors of said Moline Malleable Iron Works; to which said
bill these defendants put in their several answers, and said
Moline Malleable Iron Works, Henri H. Hill, and Stephen T.
Walker interposed their several demurrers; that after exhibiting said bill of coihplaint, to wit, on the 1st day of August,
1883, upon the application of said National Furnace Company,
for the preservation of the property of the said corporation
pending the said suit, and for the benefit of all parties inter-

358

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ested therein and in the proceeds thereof, this honorable court
entered an order in said cause, as appears of record in this
court, appointing one Robert E. Jenkins receiver of the said
Moline Malleable Iron Works, and of its property, and directing him to take and hold possession thereof under the orders
of this honorable court, and directing the said Moline Malleable Iron Works to transfer and convey to said receiver its
entire property, both real and personal, and to deliver up to
said receiver the possession thereof; and that thereupon the
said Moline Malleable Iron Works did transfer, convey and
deliver up to said receiver its property and the possession
thereof, and said receiver did enter into and take possession
thereof.
"That thereafter and long prior to the time when said
George H. Hill sold and conveyed to said complainant Mellen
his interest in said trust deed and mortgage, to wit, on the
28th day of November, 1883, the defendant Stillman W.
Wheelock, by leave of this honorable court, filed his cross-bill
of complaint in the aforesaid cause, made parties defendant
to said cross-bill said Moline Malleable Iron Works, the
National Furnace Company, George H. Hill, Charles F. Hemenway and said Carson, and therein stated, among other
things, that in the year 1880 the said Moline Malleable Iron
Works requested that he and the said Carson should become
guarantors for it upon its commercial paper, and promised to
give them security from any liability to loss by reason thereof
by liens on its property, and that at this request and in reliance upon this promise they became guarantors for it from
time to time to the amount of about fifty thousand dollars
($50,000); that afterwards, on November 12, 1882, a resolution was adopted by said corporation authorizing its officers
to execute proper instruments to secure them from loss, and
that thereafter, at the request of said Wheelock, said corporation executed said trust deed and mortgage, and that neither
Wheelock nor Carson were in any way interested in or connected with said company when they incurred this liability at
its request; that after the said resolution of November 12,
1882, was adopted by said company, said George H. Hill, who

IfELLEN v. M1OLL-N-E IRON WORKS.
Statement of the Case..

was a stockholder and director, became a guarantor for said
company, and that by and through his influence as an officer
of said company he was named a beneficiary under said trust
deed and mortgage; that the said company was then largely
indebted in excess of its capital stock, and that said George
H. Hill had assented to the creation of this indebtedness and
was liable to its creditors for this excess, and that said trust
deed and mortgage were a valid security to said Carson and
the J.S. Keator Lumber Company, but that said Hill was not
entitled to have and receive the security thereof; that the said
property covered by the said trust deed and chattel mortgage
was rapidly depreciating in value and should be sold as soon
as possible; and praying, among other things, that the said
trust deed and chattel mortgage might be declared valid; that
the said receiver might be directed to sell immediately the
property described in said trust deed and mortgage, together
with the other property of said company, and the proceeds of
the sale of the property described in said trust deed and mortgage might be applied in satisfaction of and to relieve said
'Wheelock, Carson,and J. S. Keator Lumber Company from
the liabilities assumed by them as indorsers for said Moline
Malleable Iron Works and the balance disbursed pro Pata
among the creditors of said company; that thereupon, to
wit, on the 28th day of INovember, 1883, it was ordered by
this honorable court, as appears of record in this court in
said cause, that said National Furnace Company, the Moline
Malleable Iron Works, Hemenway, Carson and George H.
Hill plead, answer or demur to the said cross-bill on or before
the 20th day of December, 1883, and that a copy of said order
be served on said Hill on or before December 5, 1883, and that
in case said Hill did not appear and plead, answer or demur to
said cross-bill as aforesaid the same should -be taken as confessed by him; that said order was duly served on said Hill on
the 1st day of December, 1883, to wit, long prior to the making of the said assignment to said Mellen; that the said
defendants, the National Furnace Company, Hemenway and
Carson, answered said cross-bill, as directed by said order, but
that said Hill and said Moline Malleable Iron Works failed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

appear in said cause and to plead, answer or demur to said
cross-bill therein, as directed by said order; that thereafter,
to wit, on the 22d day of December, 1883, the said receiver
filed his petition in said cause, alleging, among other things,
that the property of said Moline Malleable Iron Works in his
possession as such receiver (and including therein .the said
property covered by said trust deed and chattel mortgage)
was rapidly depreciating in value, and that for the interests
of all persons who might be interested therein, and to realize
anything for the creditors therefrom, it should be sold at
once, and praying that he might be authorized to offer the
said property for sale, and that thereupon it was ordered, on
said petition being filed, by this, honorable court, as appears
of record in said cause in this court, that the said receiver
should offer and advertise for sale, in the manner directed by
said order, all of said property'and should report bids therefor
to this court.
"That thereafter, to wit, on the 20th of February, 1884,
said receiver filed in said cause his report, stating therein, in
substance, that he had advertised and offered said property for
sale in the manner and as directed by said order, and that the
highest bid received by him therefor was that of Stillman W.
'Wheelock, in the amount of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000);
that it was thereupon ordered by this honorable court, as appears of record in this court, that all persofis should show
cause, by the 28th day of February, 1884, why said bid of said
Wheelock should not be accepted; and that thereafter, to wit,
on the 3d day of March, 1884, it was ordered by this honorable
court in said cause, as appears of record in this court, that the
said bid of said Wheelock for said property be accepted, and
that said receiver sell and convey the same to him, and that
thereupon said receiver did sell and convey the said property
to said Wheelock in accordance with said order.
"That thereafter, to wit, on the 3d day of March, 1884, it
appearing to this honorable court that said George H. Hill
resided beyond the jurisdiction of this court, it was ordered by
this honorable court, as appears of record in this court, that
said Georg-e H. Hill do appear and plead, answer, or demur to

AELLEN v. IMOLINE IRON WOR KS.
Statement of the Case.

the said original and supplemental bill of complaint in said
cause on or before the 15th day of April, 1884, and that a copy
of said order should be served upon said Hill on or before the
15th day of March, 1884, and that in case he did not appear,
plead, answer, or demur to said bill as directed the same should
be taken as confessed by him; and that thereafter, to wit, long
prior to the time when said Hill sold and conveyed to said
Mellen his interest in said trust deed and mortgage, a certified
copy of said order was served on said Hill; and thereafter,
to wit, on the 22d day of April, 1884, said Hill not appearing
and pleading, answering, or demurring to said original and
supplemental bill, as directed by said order, it was ordered
by this honorable court in said cause, as now appears of record
therein in this court, that said original and supplemental bill
be taken as confessed by said Hill.
"That thereafter, to wit, on the 23d day of April, 1884,
long prior to the filing of the said bill of complaint by said
William S. Mellen, said Hill not having appeared and pleaded,
answered or demurred to said cross-bill, by the order of this
court entered in said- cause, and now appearing of record in
this court, it was ordered that the said cross-bill of said Wheelock be taken as confessed by said George H. Hill; and afterwards, to wit, on the 26th day of June, 1884, the said cause
came on to be heard upon the said original and supplemental
bills of complaint and answers and replications thereto, and
upon the said cross-bill of sa.i4 Wheelock and the answers and
replications thereto, and upon the testimony taken in said
cause, and a final decree was then rendered therein, which
now appears of record in this court, and it was therein found
by this honorable court, among other things, that the indebtedness of said4kMoline Malleable Iron Works was in excess of
its capital stock in the sum of $75,000; that the said trust
deed and chattel mortgage were valid in so far as they gave
to said Wheelock, Carson and the J. S. Keator Lumber Company a first lien on the property therein described; and that
said George H. Hill was not entitled to any lien or security
by reason of said trust deed and mortgage; and that the same
were invalid as to him, because the liabilities of said company

OCTOBER TER1Mf, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

in excess of its capital stock were incurred while he was one
of the directors and its vice-president, and with his knowledge
and assent thereto, and because he was named in said trust
deed and chattel mortgage as a beneficiary thereunder through
his influence and control over said corporation as an officer
thereof; and it was thereby decreed, among other things, that
said Wheelock, Carson and the J. S. Keator Lumber Company were entitled to have and receive the proceeds derived
from the sale of the property conveyed by said trust deed and
mortgage in part satisfaction of the sums paid by them for
said company.
"All of which matters and things these defendants do aver
and plead in bar to said bill of complaint, and do pray judgment of this honorable court whether they should make any
further answer to said bill of complaint, and to be hence dismissed with their costs and charges in this behalf most wrongfully sustained."
This plea was sustained, the present bill was taken for confessed by the Moline M alleable Iron Works and Walker, for
want of plea, demurrer or answer, and -the suit was dismissed
for want of equity.
.% Thomas .Mc.Dougallfor appellants.
I. The Circuit Court never acquired jurisdiction of Hill, or
of his interest in the property, inthe National Furnace Company's suit. He was a citizen of Ohio; he never voluntarily
appeared; he could not be brought in under the provisions of
Rev. Stat. § 739, unless the case was within the provisions of
Rev. Stat. 2d ed. § 738 (the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470).
Neither he nor his interest in the property %as before the
court in that case for adjudication.
The bill in this case which, for the purposes of the plea, is
taken as admitted to be true, shows that the National Furnace
Company had neither a legal nor an equitable lien upon, or
claim to the property covered by the trust deeds. It shows
that the Furnace Company was only a general unsecured
creditor of the Moline Malleable Iron Works, and that its debt

MELLEN v. MIOLINE IRON WORKS.
Argument for Appellants.

as such creditor was not due at the time it filed its bill of complaint in the Circuit Court. Its claim against the Iron Works
had not been reduced to judgment, nor had it exhausted the
property of the Iron Works, its debtor, by execution or other
legal process, nor had any attachment or other process been
issued by the Circuit Court or any other court, whereby any
lien on or claim to the property covered by the trust deeds
had been acquired. The case presented by that bill was not
one covered by § 738, and, as attempting to enforce any lien
on or claim to the property covered by the trust deeds, it
could not have been sustained. Jones v. Green, 1 Wall. 330 ;
'Fan Weel v. Winston, 115 U. S. 228, 245; Fr'eedman'sSaving
& Trust Co. v. Earle, 110 U. S. 710; Shainwald v. Lewis, 6
Fed. Rep. 510; Paciflc Railroad Co. v. 2Jissouri Pacift Railway Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 772; 1ovejoy v. fartford Fire Ins Co.,
11 Fed. Rep. 63; Hfyde Park Gas Co. v. Kerter, 5 Bradwell
(Ill. App.) 132; Wineock v. Turpin, 96 Illinois, 135.
Supposing, however, for the purposes of the argument, that
it was such a bill, this suit is not one contemplated by § 738
of the Revised Statutes of the United States. An unsecured
creditor bringing such a suit, whose claim is not in judgment,
has no claim to and can have no lien on any part of the real
or personal property of the corporation, such as is contemplated by § 738. In the event that the corporation is not dissolved, (and a creditor is not entitled to a decree to wind it
up,) his bill necessarily must be dismissed. No receiver could
be appointed who would have the right to sell the property
until such action was taken by the court, and it does not appear by the record in this case that the M[oline Malleable Iron
Works ever was dissolved, or that the court found that the
National Furnace Company was entitled to have the corporation dissolved and the relief granted as provided by § 25, c. 32,
of the Revised Statutes of Illinois.
*II. The Circuit Court had no authority to make the order
of sale that it made in the case brought by the National Furnace Company. The bill in that case showed and advised the
court at the time it was making these orders, and confirming
said sale, that Hill was a citizen of the State of Ohio, and a

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

resident thereof. Any order made by the court affecting his
interest before jurisdiction had been acquired of him or of his
interest in the property, must be void. Webster v. Reed, 11
How. 437, 457; Windsor v. Me Veigh, 93 U. S. 274; Ulzited
States v. Walker, 109 U. S. 258; Bigelow v. Forrest, 9 Wall.
339; Exparte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
III. The cross-bill in.that case did not enlarge the jurisdic-"
tion of the court over IHill's interest in the property, or over
him personally. Cross v. De lYalle, 1 Wall. 1; Putnam v.
-New Albany, 4 Bissell, 365; Weaver v. Altee, 3 Woods, 152;
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Ayers v. Carver, 17 How. 591.
IV. The complainants are entitled to the relief they pray
for in their bill in this case.
If we are mistaken in our contention therefor, and if the
court did acquire jurisdiction over Hill and his interest in the
property, nevertteless appellant was entitled to be made a
party to that proceeding, and to have his rights protected;
because at that time no decree had been taken on the merits
of the bill, and he was interested in the proceeds of the sale
and the questions touching the validity of the trust deeds.
If, on the other hand, the court did not acquire jurisdiction
of Hill's interest in said property by the original and supplemental bills, and the jurisdiction of the court was not enlarged
by the cross-bill, the complainants are entitled to the relief
sought in the bill herein, if we are correct in our assumption
as to the lack of jurisdiction by the court, in the case brought
by the National Furnace Company, over the interest of said
Hill in the property covered by the trust deeds. The _Minnesota Co. v. The St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; Pacific Railroad
of Mlfissouri v. Missouri Paofc Railway, III U. S. 505.
M1r. Samuel A. Zynde (withl whom was MrL
'. Charles M.
Osborn on the brief) for appellees.
YR. JusTicE EKRLAN, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Was the decree in the suit instituted by the National Furnace Company (to be hereafter called the Furnace Company)

ITELLEN v. MOLINE IROiN WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

against the Moline Malleable Iron Works (to be hereafter
called the Iron Works) and others, declaring that Hill was
not entitled to a lien or security by reason of the trust deed
and chattel mortgage of June 23, 1883, void for want of jurisdiction in the court that rendered it? This is the principal
question in the present case. Its solution depends upon the
construction of the eighth section of0 the act of March 3, 1875,
determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States. 18 Stat. 472, c. 137, § 8.
That section authorizes an order to be made directing an
absent defendant in any suit brought in a Circuit Court of the
United States to enforce any legal or equitable lien upon, or
claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon
the title, to real or personal property within the district where
such suit is brought- such defendant not being an inhabitant
of or found therein, and not voluntarily appearing in the suit
-to
appear, plead, answer or demur, by a designated day.
The order must be served upon the absent defendant, if practicable, wherever found, and upon the person, if any, in charge
or possession of the property. If such personal service be not
practicable, the order must be published in such manner as the
court may direct, not less than once a week for six consecutive
weeks. If the defendant does not appear, plead, answer or
demur, within the time limited, or within such further time as
may be allowed, the court -proof being made of service or
publication of the order, and of the performance of the directions therein contained -may "entertain jurisdiction and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit in the same
manner as if such absent defendant had been served with process within the said district." "But," the act declares, "said
adjudication shall, as regards said absent defendant or 'defendants without appearance, affect only the yroperty which shall
have been the subject of the suit and under the jurisdiction of
the court therein, within such district." A defendant, not personally notified as provided in the act, may within one year
after final judgment enter his appearance in the suit; whereupon, the court must make an order setting aside the judgment
and permitting him to plead, on payment of such costs as shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

be. deemed just; the suit then to proceed to final judgment,
according to law. The previous statute gave the above remedy only in suits "to enforce any legal or equitable lien or
claim against real or personal property within the district
where the suit is brought," while the act of 1875 gives it also
in suits brought "to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud
upon the title to" such property. Rev. Stat. § 738; 18 Stat.
472, c. 137, § 8.
We are of opinion that the suit instituted by the Furnace
Company against the Iron Works and others belonged to the
class of suits last described. The trust deed and chattel mortgage in question embraced specific property within the district
in which the suit was brought. The Furnace Company, in
behalf of itself and other creditors of the Iron Works, claimed
an interest in such property as constituting a trust fund for
the payment of the debts of the latter, and the right to have
it subjected to the payment of their demands. In Grahaim
v. Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 148, 161, this court said that
"when a corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far civilly dead,
that its property may be administered as a trust fund for the
benefit of its stockholders and creditors. A court of equity,
at the instance of the proper parties, will then make those
funds trust funds, which, in other circumstances, are as much
the absolute property of the corporation as any man's property
is his." See also Mutmma v. Potomac Company, 8 'Pet. 281,
286; County of .Aforgan, v. Allen, 103 U. S. 498, 509; Wabash
&c. Railway v. Ham, 114 U. S. 587, 594; 2 Story's Eq. Jur.
§ 1252; 1 Perry on Trusts, § 242. The trust deed and chattel
mortgage executed by the Iron Works created a lien upon the
property, in favor of Wheeler, Carson, Hill, and the Keator
Lumber Company, superior to all other creditors. The Furnace Company, in behalf of itself and other unsecured creditors,
as well as Wheelock, denied the validity of Hill's lien as
against them. That lien was therefore an incumbrance or
cloud upon the title, to their prejudice. Until such lien or
incumbrance was removed, they could not know the extent of
their interest in the property or in the proceeds of its sale.
The case made by the original, as well as cross-suit, seems to
be within both the letter and the spirit of the act of 1875.

MELLENV v. MOLINE IRON WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, contended, that the Furnace Company could
not rightfully invoke the aid of a court of equity to remove
this lien or incumbrance, until it had, by obtaining judgment
for its debt and suing out execution, exhausted its legal remedies. $ones v. Green, 1 Wall. 330; Van Yee v. Winston,
115 U. S. 228, 245. But that was one of the questions necessary to be determined in the suit brought by that company,
and any error in deciding it would not authorize even the same
court, in an original, independent suit, to treat. the decree as
void. Besides, the removal of alleged liens or incumbrances
upon property, the closing up of affairs of insolvent corporations, and the administration and distribution of trust funds, are
subjects over which courts of equity have general jurisdiction.
It is, also, suggested that the court proceeded in the suit
instituted by the Furnace Company upon the theory that it
was maintainable under the provisions of the Illinois statute
giving courts of equity "full power, on good cause shown, to
dissolve or close up the business of any corporation, to appoint
a receiver therefor who shall have authority, by the name of
the receiver of such corporation, to sue in all courts and do all
things necessary to closing up its affairs, as commanded by the
decree of such court." 1 Starr & Curtis Rev. Stat. Ill. 618,
Title "Corporations," c. 32, § 25. The appellants earnestly
insist that no case was made that would bring that suit within
these provisions of the Illinois statute, or that would give the
Furnace Company any right to have the Iron Works dissolved
as a corporation, and its business closed up. And on behalf
of the appellees it is .ontended that the suit brought by the
Furnace Company was not an ordinary creditor's suit, but one
for the administration and distribution of a trust fund. In the
view we take of the case it is not necessary to determine the
soundness of any of these propositions; for, if the court erroneously ruled upon any of them, its decree could not for that
reason be assailed in a collateral proceeding as void for want
of jurisdiction. An adjudication that a particular case is of
equitable cognizance, cannot be disturbed by an original suit.
Such adjudication is not void, even if erroneous.
This brings us to the question whether the steps taken in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the suit brought by the National Furnace Company were such
as authorized a decree that would affect Hill's interest in the
property covered by the trust deed and chattel mortgage. We
lay out of view the fact that Hill was a citizen of Ohio, and
neither appeared, nor was served with process within the district in which the suit was brought. He was personally served
with copies of the orders requiring him to plead, answer, or
demur, and the decree only affects his interest in property
within the territorial limits of that district.
It appears from the plea upon which the cause was heard,
that on the 1st of August, 1883, after the present appellees had
answered the original bill in most part, and after the Iron
Works had demurred, the court, upon the application of the
Furnace Company, appointed a receiver to take possession of
the property of the first named company, including that
covered by the trust deed and chattel mortgage, for the benefit of all parties interested in it; and that, on the 28th of
lNovember, 1883, Wheelock, by leave, filed his cross-bill against
the Iron Works, the Furnace Company, Geo. H. Hill, Hemenway, and Carson, asking a decree declaring said trust deed and
mortgage valid as to himself, Carson and the Keator Lumber
Company, and void as to Hill. He alleged that the property
embraced in the trust deed and chattel mortgage was rapidly
depreciating in value, and ought to be sold, and the proceeds
applied, primarily, to relieve himself, Carson and the Keator
Lumber Company from the liabilities assumed by them as
indorsers for the Iron Works. On the same day an order was
entered requiring the defendants to the cross-bill to plead,
answer, or demur to the same on or before December 20, 1883,
and providing that if Hill (being served with a copy of the
order on or before December 5, 1883) did not appear, plead,
answer, or demur to the cross-bill, by the time fixed, the same
would be taken as confessed by him. Hill was served - presumably in Ohio, where he resided -on the 1st of December,
1883, with such copy; but neither he nor the Iron Works
appeared, pleaded, answered, or demurred to the cross-bill. It
appearing from the petition of the receiver, filed December 22,
1883, that the property covered by the trust deed and mort-

MELLEN v. MOLINE IRON WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

gago was rapidly depreciating in value, he was authorized by
an. order of court to advertise and sell it. He did sell it, and,
February 20, 1884-, reported a sale, by him, to Wheelock, pursuant to and in the manner directed by the court. That sale
was approved, time being given to show cause why it should
not be confirmed. The property was conveyed by the receiver
to Wheelock. On the 3d of -March, 1884, Hill was required
by order of court to appear on or' before April 15, 1884, and
plead, answer, or demur to the original and supplemental bill,
and it was ordered that if he did not, on or before the latter
day, being previously served with a copy of such order, appear
and plead, answer or demur, the bill would be taken as confessed by him. Long prior to the sale to Mellen of Hill's
interest in the trust and mortgage the latter was served with
a copy of the order of March 3, 1884, and on the 22d of April,
1884, the original and supplemental bills, Hill not having
appeared, and answered, pleaded or demurred, were taken as
confessed by him. On the succeeding day a like order was entered against him as to the cross-bill, he not having appeared,
pleaded, answered or demurred thereto. The cause came on
to be heard on the 26th of June, 1884, upon the original and
supplemental bill, upon the cross-bill, upon the answer and
replications thereto, and upon the testimony taken in the cause,
when the final decree was rendered as set forth in the plea
embraced in the statement of facts preceding this opinion.
A large part of the argument on behalf of the appellants
is in support of the propositioii, that, as the order requiring
Hill to appear and plead, answer or demur, to the original and
supplemental bills was not made until after the receiver had,
by order of the court, sold the property, the sale was a nullity.
We do not assent to this view. Whether the condition of the
property was such as to require, for the protection of the parties, that it be sold, was a matter for the court, in its discretion, to determine. There is nothing to show that .the order
of sale was even improvidently made, much less that it was
procured by fraud, or that the property was sacrificed. If
the circumstances justified immediate action, the court had
power to order a sale in advance of a final decree. The sale
VOL. cxxx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

was not ordered or made until after Hill had been duly served
with a copy of the order of November 28, 1883, to appear and
plead, answer or demur, to the cross-bill by the day fixed in
that order. If the sale was irregular, by reason of its being
ordered and made before Hill was directed to appear and
plead, answer or demur, to the original and supplemental bills,
that is not a matter affecting the jurisdiction of the court to
render a final decree in respect to his interest in the property;
for the proceeds took the place of the property, and whatever
rights Hill had in the latter were transferred to the former.
So that the real question, upon this part of the case, is
whether the proceedings in question conformed to the act of
March 3, 18715. We are of opinion that they did. Before the
final decree was rendered, Hill had been served with a copy of
the several orders requiring him to appear and plead, answer
and demur, as well to the original and supplemental bills as to
the cross-bill, and was in default in respect to each order. It
may not have been in accordance with the usual or. proper
practice to take the cross-bill for confessed before he had been
duly served with the order to appear and plead, answer or demur, to the original and supplemental bills. But if that was
an irregularity it was one that did not affect the power of the
court to make a final decree and constitutes no ground for disregarding that decree in this collateral proceeding.
We have considered the case just as if the present suit had
been brought by Hill. The appellants have no greater rights
than he would have, if the present suit had been instituted by
him; for -ellen, the trustee for Sophia H. Boyd, acquired his
rights pendente lite.* Hill sold and conveyed to him, after he
had been personally served with copies of the order to appear
and plead, answer or demur, to the original and supplemental
bills, and only three days before the time fixed for his appearance to the original suit. His sale was more than three
months after he was required to appear, and plead, answer,
or demur to the cross-bill. That sale and conveyance could
not affect the power of the court to proceed to a final decree,
so far as his Interest in the property was concerned. Nor by
such sale and conveyance did Mellen and his cestui que trust

