OCTOBER TERiT,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

the validity of its final order. Its judgment, so far as it involved mere errors, cannot be reviewed in this collateral proceeding, and must be
Affi'med.
CUDDY, Petitioner.
APPRAT -1O0i

THE CIRCUIV COUT' OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Ko. 1552. Argued April 25,1889.-Decided May13,1889.

When a judgment of a Circuit or District Court of the United States is
attacked collaterally, every intendment will be made in support of jurisdiction, unless the want of it, either as to subject matter or as to parties, appears in some proper form; and this general rule applies to
judgments punishing for contempt.
A petitioner for a writ of habeas co:pus to obtain his discharge from imprisonment under the judgment and sentence of a District or Circuit
Court of the United States for contempt, is at liberty to allege and to
prove facts, not contradicting the record, which go to show that the
court was without jurisdiction.

The writ was reThe case is stated in the

PETITIONT FOR A WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

fused, and the petitioner appealed.
opinion.

.M. J. A. Anderson for petitioner.
.Xr. Solicitor General and Xlrf. George J. -Denis, United
States attorney for the Southern District of California, opposing.
C

A[R1.

JUSTCE HA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a final judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of California, denying an application for a writ of habeas eowpus.
The appellant, in his petition for the writ, represented that
he was detained and imprisoned contrary to the Constitution
and laws of the United States, under and by virtue of a war-

CUDDY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

rant of commitment based upon a pretended judgment of
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of California, adjudging him guilty of contempt of court,
and sentencing him to six months' imprisonment in jail.
The petition purports to set out all the minutes, records and
files of the court, in the proceedings for contempt, from which
it appears that on the 12th day of February, 1889, the case
of United States v. W. MAore Young coming on regularly for
trial, a jury was ordered to be drawn and impanelled; that
the names of twelve jurors were regularly drawn from the
box, and they were sworn on their voir dire; that among the
names so drawn was that of :Robert TNeGarvin, who, being
asked upon his examination if he had been approached or
spoken to by any one about the above case, replied that he
had been approached and spoken to about it by the appellant
Cuddy; that, upon the testimony thus adduced, the court
made an order directing a citation to be issued forthwith,
requiring appellant to appear before the court, on the next
day, to show cause why he should not be punished for contempt; and that such citation was accordingly at once issued.
It further appears from the minutes and orders, that the
matter of contempt came on for hearing the next day, the
appellant appearing in person and by counsel; that an exception to the proceedings was taken by him, "a general denial
entered, and the hearing was proceeded with;" that after the
witnesses on behalf of the government were examined, the appellant moved to dismiss the matter of contempt, and the motion
was denied; that he testified, under oath, in his own behalf;
and that upon the conclusion of all the testimony the matter
was submitted. The court made the following order:
"Whereas, in the progress of the trial of the action of The
United States of America v. W. More Young, on the 12th day
of February, 1889, upon the examinatioil of the term trial
juror, Robert McGarvin, as to his qualification to sit as a trial
juror in the said action, the said feGarvin testified, among
other things, in effect that on the day previous he was approached by one Thomas X.Cuddy with the object on Cuddy's
part to influence his, M[cGarvin's, actions as a juror in the

OCTOER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

said case in the event that he should be sworn to try the said
action; and
"Whereas, from the testimony, this court, on the said 12th
day of February, 1889, entered an order directing the said
Thomas J. Cuddy to show cause before this court, at the
court-room thereof, at 10 o'clock, on the 13th day of February, 1889, why he should not be adjudged guilty of a contempt of this court; and
"Whereas, in response to the said citation, said Thomas J.
Cuddy did, on the said 13th day of February, 1889, appear
before the said court; and
"Whereas testimony was then and there introduced in respect to the matter both for and against him:
"CC
The court, having duly considered the testimony, does now
find the fact to be that the said Thomas J. Cuddy did, upon
the 11th day of February, 1889, approach the said Robert
NMcGarvin, at the time being a term trial juror duly impanelled in this court, with the view to improperly influence the
said McGarvin's action in the case of the United States of
America against the said Young in the event the said MoGarvin should be sworn as a juror in said action.
"-Now, it is here adjudged by the court that the said Thomas
J. Cuddy did thereby commit a contempt of this court, for
which contempt it is now here ordered and adjudged that the
said Thomas J. Cuddy be imprisoned in the county jail of the
county of Los Angeles for the period of six months from this
date, and the marshal of this district will execute this judgment forthwith."
The petition for the writ sets out also the warrant of commitment, which recites that the appellant "was convicted of a
contempt of the said court, committed on the 11th day of
February, 1889, at the city of Los Angeles, county of Los
Angeles, State of balifornia, and within the jurisdiction of
said court."
The appellant in his application claims "that said United
States District Court had no jurisdiction or authority legally
to try and sentence him in the manner and form above stated:
(1) For the reason that the matters set out in said judg-

CUDDY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

ment do not constitute any contempt of court provided for by
§ 7'25 of the Revised Statutes of the United States; (2) for
the reason that the proceedings in said court were insufficient
to give the court jurisdiction to proceed to judgment in said
matter; (3) for the reason that'said judgment is void, because
not based or founded upon any proceedings in due course of
law."
This is the whole case, as made by the petition for the writ
of habeas copuh.

Although the testimony given on the hearing of the question
of contempt was taken down by a stenographer, under oath,
no part of it except the evidence of McGarvin, the substance
of which is recited in the above order, appears in the transcript.
We are unable from the record before us to say that the
Circuit Court erred in denying the application for the writ of
habeas corpuws.
The statute requires the application for a writ of habeas corpus to set forth "the facts concerning the detention of the
party restrained, in whose custody he is detained, and by
virtue of what claim or authority, if known." Rev. Stat.,
§ 754. The return must specify the true cause of detention,
and the petitioner, or the party imprisoned, "may deny any of
the facts set forth in the return, or may allege any other facts
that may be material in the case." Such denials or allegations
must be under oath, and amendments may be made, with the
leave of the court, "so that thereby the material facts may be
ascertained," and the matter disposed of "as law and justice
require." Rev. Stat., §§ 751, VT0,
l761.
The present application does show in whose custody and by
virtue of what authority the appellant is detained; but it sets
forth the facts concerning his detention so far only as they
are disclosed, as above, by the minutes, files and records of
the District Court. It is stated in the brief of appellants'
counsel, and the statement was repeated at the bar, that"the
difference between the Savin case, just determined, ante, 267,
and the present case is, that the misbehavior constituting the
contempt with which Savin is charged occurred in the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

building and while the court was in session; whereas, the misbehavior with which Cuddy is clharged did not occur in the
court building, nor, so far as the record of the District Court
shows, while the court was in session. It was assumed in
argument that, under no vie,& of the facts, could the misbehavior of Cuddy be deemed to have occurred in the presence
of the court or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, and therefore his offence, if punishable at all,
was punishable only by indictment. But both the petition for
habeas corpus and the record of the District Court are silent
as to the particular locality where the appellant approached
AcGarvin, with a view of improperly influencing his actions
in the event of his being sworn as a juror in the case of United

States v. Young. That which, according to the finding and
judgment, the appellant did, if done in the presence of the
court, that is, in the place set apart for the use of the court,
its officers, jurors and witnesses, was clearly a contempt, punishable, as provided in § 725 of the :Revised Statutes, by fine
or imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, and without
indictment. Savin, Petitioner,ante, 267.
The District Court possesses superior jurisdiction, within the
meaning of the familiar rule that the judgments of courts of
that character cannot be assailed collaterally, except upon
grounds that impeach their jurisdiction. In Eeme's Lessee
v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173, 185, Chief Justice Marshall, after
observing that the words "inferior court" apply to courts of
special and limited authority, erected on such principles that
their proceedings must show jurisdiction, said: "The courts of
the United States are all of limited jurisdiction, and their
proceedings are erroneous if. the, jurisdiction be not shown
upon them. Judgments rendered in such cases may certainly
be reversed, but this court is not prepared to say that they
are absolute nullities, Which may be totally disregarded." In
-MeCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat, 192, 199, where the question was, whether a decree in a suit in the Federal District
Court of Ohio, which did not show that the parties were citizens of different States, was coram non judice and void, the
court said that the reason assigned for holding that decree void

CUDDY, Petitioner.

285

Opinion of the Court.

"proceeds upon an incorrect view of the character and jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United States. They are
all of limited jurisdiction; but they are not, on that account,
inferior courts, in the technical sense of those words, whose
judgments, taken alone, are to be disregarded. If the jurisdiction be not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and
decrees are erroneous, and may, upon a writ of error or appeal,
be reversed for that cause. But they are not absolute nullities." And in Galpin. v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, 365, the court
said: "It is undoubtedly true that a superior court of general
jurisdiction, proceeding within the general scope of its powers,
is presumed to act rightly. All intendments of law in such
cases are in favor of its acts. It is presumed to have jurisdiction to give the judgments it renders until the contrary
appears. And this presumption embraces jurisdiction not only
of the cause or subject matter of the action in which the judgment is given, but of the parties also." The general rule that,
unless the contrary appears from the record, a cause is deemed
to be without the jurisdiction of a Circuit or District Court of
the United States-their jurisdiction being limited by the
Constitution and acts of Congress-has no application where
the judgments of such courts are attacked collaterally.
Unless, therefore, the want of jurisdiction, as to subject
matter or parties, appears, in some proper form, every intendment must be made in support*of the judgment of a court
* of that character. The District Courts of the United States,
invested with power to punish, without indictment, and by
fine or imprisonment, at their discretion, contempts of their
authority, are none the less superior courts of general jurisdiction, because the statute declares that such power to punish
contempts ' shall not be construed" to extend to any cases
except misbehavior in the presence of the court, misbehavior
so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice,
and disobedience or resistance to its lawful writ, process, order,
rule, decree, or command. Rev. Stat. 725. The only effect
of this limitation is to narrow the field for the exercise of
their general power, as courts of superior jurisdiction, to punish
contempts of their authority.

OCTOBER TERN, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The record in the present case shows that the appellant
was before the court; that testimony was heard in respect to
the matter of contempt; and that the appellant testified in
his own behalf. The judgment being attacked collaterally,
and the record disclosing a case of contempt, and not showing
one beyond the jurisdiction of the court, it must be presumed,
in this proceeding, that the evidence made a case within its
jurisdiction'to punish in the mode pursued here. We do not
mean to say that this presumption as to jurisdictional facts,
about which the record is silent, may not be overcome by
evidence. On the contrary, if the appellant had alleged such
facts as indicated that the misbehavior with which he was
charged was not such as, under § 725 of the Revised Statutes,
made him liable to fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of
the court, he would have been entitled to the writ, and, upon
proving such facts, to have been discharged. Such evidence
would not have contradicted the record. But he made no such
allegation in his a'pplication, and, so far as the record shows,
no such proof. The general averment, in the petition, that
he was detained in violation of the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and that the District Court had no jurisdiction or authority to try and sentence him, in the manner
and form above stated, is an averment of a conclusion of law,
and not of facts, that would, if found to exist, displace the.
presumption the law makes in support of the judgment. - As
it was neither alleged nor proved that the contempt, which a
the appellant was adjudged, upon notice and hearing, f'o have''
committed, was not committed in the presence of the court,
and as his misbehavior, if it occurred in its presence, made
him liable to fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of the
court, it must be held that the want of jurisdiction is not
affirmatively shown; consequently, that it does not aplpear
that error was committed in refusing the writ.
Whether the attempt to influence the conduct of the term
trial juror McGarvin was or was not, within the meaning of
the statute, misbehavior so near to the court "as to obstruct
the administration of justice," however distant from the court
building may have been the place where the appellant met

