DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

vaidity and force of the adjudication of bankruptcy of the
other two partners.

This form of action for enforcing the

liability of a special partner, imposed by the statute of New
York, has been decided by the New York Court of Appeals
to be the proper one in the cases of Durant v. Abendroth, 97
N. Y. 132; Sharp v. Butchinson, 100 N. Y. 533, and Du'ant
v. Abendrotk, 69 N. Y. 148. We think these decisions are
correct.
Afirned.
The judgment of the court below is
MR. JUSTICE BILATcnFoRD took no part in the decision of this
case.

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
ERROR

TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

TERRITORY

OF

NEW

MEXICO.
No. 226. Argued April 3, 1889.-Decided May 15, 189.

In construing a covenant in a deed, the words are to be taken most strongly
against the party using them; but, m construing a covenant created by
statute out of language of grant in a deed, and in derogation of the common law, the words should be construed strictly.
Covenants of seisin and for quiet enjoyment, created by statute from the
use of certain words in a deed, are operative to their full extent only
when the parties have failed to insert covenants in these respects in the
deed, and may be controlled and limited in their operation by express
covenants in that regard.
When a general covenant of warranty is inserted in a deed, a statutory
covenant of seisin is not to be implied,

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as
follows:
Douglass brought his action in the District Court of the
Second Judicial District of the Territory of New Mrexico,
September 11, 1883, for the breach of an alleged covenant of
seisin in a deed made by Lewis and his wife to him, purporting to convey the title to one hundred and sixty acres of land.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The petition averred that the defendants, by their deed of
May 13, 1882, "did convey and warrant to the plaintiff, his
heirs and assigns, in fee simple, certain real estate," describing it, and then continued, "and the defendants did by their
said deed, for themselves, their heirs and personal representatives, covenant with the plaintiff, his heirs and assigns, amongst
other things, that at the time of the making, ensealing and delivery of said deed, and ' at the time of the execution of said
conveyance,' they, the said defendants, were lawfully seized
of an indefeasible estate, and in possession of a title in fee
simple in and to the said property, and then had good right
and full power to convey the same. N'evertheless, plaintiff
avers that the said tract of land in said deed described, and by
said defendants bargained and sold to said plaintiff, was not
the property of said defendants, and at the time of the making and delivery of said deed they, the said defendants, were
not lawfully seized of an indefeasible estate in fee simple in
and to said real estate, nor had they then good right and full
power to convey the same, but, on the contrary. thereof, the
goverhment of the United States had at the time of the making and delivery of said deed, and still has, lawful right and
title to said real estate; and plaintiff avers that in consideration of the conveyance and sale of said lands in said deed described and set forth, he paid to said defendants the sum of
five thousand three hundred and thirty-three dollars and
thirty-three cents ($5333.33); that he, said plaintiff, has further expended and laid out large sums of money in building
houses upon and improving said land, to wit, four thousand
dollars ($4000); and so the plaintiff says that they, said defendants, have not kept the said covenants according to the
true intent and meaning of said deed, and according to the
statute in such case made and provided, but have broken
the same, to the damage of plaintiff in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000)."
Profert of the deed was made by the declaration, and defendants filed a demurrer, October 1, 1883, craving oyer of the
condition of the said deed and covenant, which being read and
heard, they insisted that the declaration and the matters

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

therein contained, etc., were insufficient in law. Pleas were
also filed alleging that the deed was not defendants' deed; denying that the defendants covenanted with the plaintiff that
they were lawfully seized; and averring that it was not true
that they had not kept their covenants. Subsequently, and
on the 19th day of October, an amended special demurrer to
the declaration was filed, averring "that the said deed upon
oyer contains no such covenant as the one alleged in the said
declaration of the plaintiff -that is to say, that the said deed
having some express covenants therein contained, and among
which is not the covenant declared upon in the said plaintiff's
declaration, to wit, no covenant of seisin, or 'that the said
covenantors were at the time of making the said deed seized
of an indefeasible title in fee simple' to the lands conveyed,
and inasmuch as the parties have fully expressed their intention and agreements at the time of making the said deed by
the express covenants therein contained, there can be none
added by construction or otherwise; and, further, defendants
say the said "declaration alleges no eviction, and thdrefore he,
the said plaintiff, ought not to have and maintain his said
action," etc.
This, upon argument, was overruled November 3, 1883, the
district judge filing his opinion thereon January 8, 1884, which
thus concludes: "In the case at bar I am of opinion that the
express covenant of warranty is independent of the covenant
of seisin implied by the statute, and that an action may be
maintained upon the latter, and can only be met by plea and
proof of good title in the grantor at the time of the execution
of the deed."
On the 16th of Alay, 1884, the defendants filed two pleas,
alleging, in the first, that at the time of making the deed the
grantors were seized and possessed of the said real estate, with
full power and authority to convey according to the effect of
the deed; and, in the second, that at the time of making the
said deed the grantors "were lawfully seized of an indefeasible estate and in possession of a title in fee simple in and to
the said real property, and then had good right and full power
to convey the same" according to the form and effect of said

OCTOBER TERM, 188&
Statement of the Case.

deed. The plaintiff demurred to the first of these pleas, the
court sustained the demurrer, and the case went to trial on
the issue made up on the second plea. Evidence was given
on behalf of the plaintiff tending to show that the United
States had assumed ownership and control over all the land in
controversy and had disposed of a portion of the same, and
that the defendants claimed that the land had been granted
by Spain or Mexico to one Sandoval, who devised it to one of
his relatives, from whom it had descended to the grantor of
defendant Lewis, but that the claim of Sandoval had never
been presented to any tribunal or officer of the United States
for adjudication. All the documentary evidences of title
offered on defendants' behalf, except the will of Sandoval
and papers relating thereto, bore date in 1879 or subsequent
thereto. The oral testimony tended to show that Sandoval
and his descendants were in possession of the land for a number of years, probably from the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
Plaintiff admitted that he was put into possession of the
land and had never been disturbed in the possession, and, in
effect, that he had never made demand for restoration of the
consideration money or what might have been expended for.
improvements, nor had any demand been made on him to surrender the land prior to the commencement. of the suit, nor
had he offered to rescind or to restore the land. The court
refused to admit the muniments of title relied on by the defendants, and charged the jury as follows: "There is no question of fact in this case for you to pass upon. There are only
questions of law which it is the duty of the court to pass
upon, and the entire responsibility of passing upon such questions is with the court. The court instructs the jury that it is
their duty, under the law and the evidence in this case, to find
a verdict for the plaintiff and assess his damages at the sum
of $5333.33, being the amount of the money paid by him for
the land in question." The jury returned a verdict accordingly, and motions for a new trial and in ai~rest of judgment
were made by the defendants and severally overruled, and
judgment rendered on the verdict. The case was carried by

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which court
reversed the judgment of the District Court and dismissed the
cause, from which judgment of the Supreme Court the pending writ of error was prosecuted. The Supreme Court of the
Territory held that the effect of the introduction into the
deed of an express covenant of warranty is to deny to the
purchaser the benefit of the statutory covenant of seisin and
said: "As there is no pretence in this case of an eviction or
any claim whatever of a breach of the covenant of warranty,
it follows that the action cannot be maintained, and that it
was error in the court below to order a verdict for the plaintiff, and in overruling the motion in arrest of judgment."
-Mr,.J.. t..eOGowan (with whom was
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. C.

W. Holcomb

I. The covenant of warranty which is found written in the
deed does not exclude the statutory covenants. These latter
must be considered as express covenants, having the same
effect as though written out in full in the instrument of conveyance. Alexander v. Schreiber, 10 Missouri, 460; Browning v. Wright, 10 Bos. & Pull. 13; Howell v. Richards, 11
East, 633; Bender v. Fromberger,4 Dall. 436; Funk v. Bechtoll's Executors, 11 S. & R. 109; Brown v. Tomlinson, 2
Greene (Iowa), 525; Hesse v. Stevenson, 3 Bos. & Pull. 565;
Gainsford v. Griflth, 1 Saunders, 51; Smith v. Compton, 3
B. & Ad. 189; Roebuck v. Duprey, 2 Alabama, 535; Gates v.
Caldwell, 7 Mass. 68; Carver v. louthain, 38 Indiana, 530;
FEent v. Cantral,44 Indiana, 452; Bush v. Person, 18 How. 82.
II. The statutory covenant of seisin is a general covenant,
unlimited by any restrictive words found in the second statutory covenant. Gratz v. Ewalt, 2 Binney, 95 ; Alexander v.
Schreiber, 10 Missouri, 460; Browning v. Th'ight, 2 Bos. &
Pull. 13; Gainsford v. C-riffith, 1 Saunders, 51; .Duvall v.
Craig, 2 Wheat. 45; Peters v. Grubb, 21 Penn. St. 455; Rowe
v. Heath, 23 Texas, 614; Sumner v. TFilliams, 8 Mass. 162;
S. C. 5 Am. Dec. 83.
III. The covenant of seisin is broken, if at all, as soon as it'
is made. Rawle on Covenants, § 205, and cases cited; Lot v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Thomas, 1 Pennington (2 N. J. L.) 386; Hing v. Gilson, 32
Illinois, 348; S. C. 83Am. Dec. 269; Fitzhugh v. Croghan, 2
J.J. Marsh. 429; S. . 19 Am. Dec. 139; Ross v. Turner, 6
Arkansas, 132; S. C. 44 Am. Dec. 531; Abbott v. Allen, 14
Johns. 247; Moore v. .Merrill,17 N. H=. 75; S.0.43 Am. Dec.
593.
IV. The plaintiff is only required to declare its breach, and
need aver neither eviction nor damages. Pollardv. Dwight, 4
Cranch, 421; .- fitchell v. Hiazen, 4 Connecticut, 495; S. C. 10
Am. Dec. 169; Hamilton v. Wilson, 4 Johns. 72; S. C. 4 Am.
Dec. 253; lot v. Thomas, ubi su&pra; Pringle v. Titten's
Executor, 1 Bay, 256; S. . 1 Am. Dec. 612; Share v. Anderson, 7 S. & R. 43; S.(. 10 Am. Dec. 421; -Fitzhughv. Cr'oghan,
2 J. J. Marsh. 429; -Dickson v. -Djsir's Administrator, 23
Missouri, 151.
V. The burden of proof is on the defendant. Swafford v.
WTfhiple, 3 Greene (Iowa), 261; S.C. 54 Am. Dec. 498; Ayer
v. Austin, 6 Pick. 225; Abbott v. Allen, 14 Johns. 2418; Schofield v. Iowa Homestead Co., 32 Iowa, 317; Jerald v. Elly,
51 Iowa, 321; Ingalls v. Eaton, 25 Michigan, 32; .Marstonv.
Hobbs, 2 Mass. 433; 5. C. 3 Am. Dec. 61.
VI. The measure of damages is the purchase money and

interest thereon. Staats v. Ten Eyck, 3 Caines, 111; S. C. 2
Am. Dec. 254; Bender v. Fromberger, 4 Dall. 436; Zing v.
Gilson, 32 Illinois, 348; Swafford v. T-hilple, ubi szqra.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger(with whom was X.'. J. .1. Wilson
on the brief) for defendants in error.
Mn. CHIEF JUsTIcE FWnLE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Assuming that defendants in error failed to sustain their
plea that they "were lawfully seized of an indefeasible estate,
and in possession of a title in fee simple in and to the said
real property, and then had good right and full power to convey the same," counsel for plaintiff in error state their position
"in the following propositions: 1. The covenant of warranty
which is found written in the deed does not exclude the statutory covenants; these latter must be considered as express

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

covenants, having the same effect as though written out in full
in the instrument of conveyance. 21 The statutory covenant
of seisin is a general covenant, unlimited by any restrictive
words found in the second statutory covenant. 3. The covenant of seisin is broken, if at all, as soon as it is made. 4. The
plaintiff is only required to declare its breach, and need neither
aver eviction or damages. 5. The burden of proof is on defendant. 6. The measure of damages is the purchase money
and interest."
The defendants in error by their deed entered into a general
covenant of warranty, but it is claimed that in virtue of the
statute they are to be held in addition to a general covenant
of seisin, a limited covenant as to incumbrances, and a general
covenant of further assurance.
The statute relied on is as follows:
"The words 'bargained and sold,' or words to the same
effect, in all conveyances of hereditary real estate, unless restricted in express terms on the part of the person conveying
the same, himself and his heirs, to the person to whom the
property is conveyed, his heirs and assignees, shall be limited
to the following effect: First. That the grantor, at the time
of the execution of said conveyance, is possessed of an irrevocable possession in fee simple to the property so conveyed.
Secornd. That the said real estate, at the time of the execution
of said conveyance, is free from all incumbrance made or suffered to be made by the grantor, or by any person claiming
the same under him. Third. For the greater security of the
person, his heirs and assignees, to whom said real estate is conveyed by the grantor and his heirs, suits may be instituted the
same as if the conditions were stipulated in the said conveyance." Compiled Laws, New Mexico, 1884, § 2750, p. 1306.
The language used is somewhat ambiguous, arising, as the
Supreme Court of the Territory informs us, from the section

having been originally enacted in Spanish from English and
then retranslated; but we are content with the view of that
court that "hereditary real estate" means real estate of inheritance, and "possessed of an irrevocable possession in fee
simple" means seized of an indefeasible, estate in fee simple.
VOL. CX

-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

At common law, in the transfer of estates of freehold by
deed, a warranty was implied from the word of feoffment,
dedi, and from no other word, and from words of bargain and
sale merely no covenant ivas implied in any case.
In 1707, the statute of 6 Anne, c. 35 was enacted, of which
the 30th section is as follows:
"In all deeds of bargain and sale hereafter enrolled in pursuance of this act, whereby any estate of inheritance in fee
simple is limited to the bargainee and his heirs, the words
grant, bargain a'nd sell shall amount to, and be construed and

adjudged in all courts of judicature, to be express covenants
to the bargainee and his heirs and assigns, from the bargainor
for himself, his heirs, executors and administrators, that the
bargainor, notwithstanding any act done by him, was at the
time of the execution of such deed seized of the hereditaments
and premises thereby granted, bargained and sold, of an indefeasible estate in fee simple, free from all incumbrances, (rents
and services due to the lord of the fee only excepted,) and for
quiet enjoyment thereof against the bargainer, his heirs and

assigns, and all claiming under him, and also for further assurance thereof to be made by the bargainor, his heirs and assigns,
and all claiming under him, unless the same shall be restrained
and limited by express particular words contained in such
deed; and that the bargainee, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, respectively, shall and may, in any action to
be brought, assign a breach or breaches thereupon, as they
might do in case such covenants were expressly inserted in
such bargain and sale."
And in 1715, an act was passed by the colony of Pennsylvania, entitled "An act for acknowledging and recording of
deeds," of which the 6th section declared that:
"All deeds to be recorded in pursuance of this act, whereby
any estate of inheritance in fee simple shall hereafter be limited
to the grantee and his heirs, the words grant, bargain,sell,
shall be adjudged an express covenant to the grantee, his heirs
and assigns, to wit, that the grantor was seized of an indefeasible estate in fee simple, freed from incumbrances done or
suffered from the grantor (except the rents and services due

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

to the lord of the fee), as also for quiet enjoyment against the
grantor, his heirs and assigns, unless limited by express words
contained in such deed, and that the grantee, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, may in any. action assign
inserted."
breaches as if such covenants were expressly
In Cratz v. Ewalt, 2 Binney, 95, 99, the construction of this
statute was carefully considered, and Tilghman, C. J., in delivering the opinion, said: "The meaning is not clearly expressed; but I take it to be a covenant

.

.

.

that the

estate was indefeasible as to any act of the grantor. For if it
was intended that the covenant should be that the grantor
was seized of an estate absolutely indefeasible, it was improper
to add the subsequent words 'freed from incumbrance done or
suffered by him.' . . . The words ' seized of an indefeasible estate in fee simple' are to be considered, therefore, not as
standing alone, but in connection with the words next following, 'freed from incumbrances done or suffered from the
grantor.' I am the more convinced that this was the intention of the legislature, by comparing the expressions in this
act with the 30th section of the statute of 6 Anne, c. 35, which
contains a provision on the same subject, and was evidently in
the eye of the persons who framed our law. The British
statute makes use of more words, and the intention is more
clearly expressed. It declares that the words grant, bargain
and sell shall amount to a covenant that the bargainor, notwithstanding any act done by him, was at the time of the
execution of the deed seized of an indefeasible estate in fee
simple, etc. Our law seems intended to express the substance
of the British statute in fewer words, and has fallen into a
degree of obscurity, which is often the consequence of attempting brevity. I can conceive no good reason why our legislature should have wished to carry this implied warranty Sarther
than the British statute did; because it has bad effects to
annex to words an arbitrary meaning far more extensive than
their usual import, and which must be unknown to all but professional men. It might be very well to guard against secret
acts of the grantor with which none but himself and those
interested in keeping the secret could be acquainted. As for

OCTOBER TERIN, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

any further warranty, if it was intended by the parties, it was
best to leave them to the usual manner of expressing it in plain
terms."
The statute of Anne, the Pennsylvania act, and the foregoing
extract from the opinion of Chief Justice Tilghman, are given
by [r. :Rawle in his admirable work on Covenants for Title,
(5th ed. §§ 282, 283 et sey.,) and he states that "the construction thus given has never been departed from in Pennsylvania;
and it is said by Chancellor Kent (4 Kent Com. 474) that ' by
the decision in Gratz v. Ewalt the words of the statute are
divested of all dangerous tendency, and that it will equally
apply to the same statutory language in other States."'
The provision upon this subject in the statutes of Alabama,
Arkansas, Illinois and Mississippi, is substantially the same as
in Pennsylvania, and the same construction has been put upon
it by the courts. Stewart v. Anderson, 10 Alabama, 504;
Wiston v. Vau ghan, 22 Arkansas, 72; Finley v. Steele, 23
Illinois, 56; IFeems v. .eCd uglan, '7 Smedes & Marsh. 427. It
is contended, however, that the statute of Missouri so differs
from the statute of Anne and that of Pennsylvania as to require a different construction, which has been given it in Alexander v. Schreiber, 10 Missouri, 460, and that as the statute of
New Mexico was taken from that of Missouri, the construction
put upon the latter should be accepted as correct.
The language of the statute of Missouri (Gen. Stat. Missouri,
1865, p. 444, § 8) is as follows:
"The words ' grant,' ' bargain' and ' sell,' in all conveyances
in which any estate of inheritance in fee simple is limited,
shall, unless restrained by expressed terms contained in such
conveyances, be construed to be the following express covenants on the part of the grantor, for himself and his heirs, to
the grantee, his heirs and assigns: First, that the grantor was,
at the time of the execution of such conveyance, seized of an
indefeasible estate, in fee simple, in the real estate thereby
granted; second, that such real estate was, at the time of the
execution of such conveyance, free from incumbrances done or
suffered by the grantor, or any person claiming under him;
third, for further assurances of such real estate to be made by

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the grantor and his heirs to the grantee and his heirs and
assigns; and may be sued upon in the same manner as if such
covenants were expressly inserted in the conveyance."
And the Supreme Court of Missouri, in Alkcander v. Sc/hrei7e;, u~i~ pra, after citing many cases holding that where a
deed contains a limited covenant that the premises are free
from incumbrances, and also a general covenant of warranty,
the one does not limit the other, thus proceeds: "It is
apparent from these cases, to which we have briefly referred,
that whilst it is conceded that a special covenant will restrain
a general one, where the two are absolutely irreconcilable, yet
the courts have inclined very much to let both stand. A
covenant is to be construed most strongly against the covenantor, and in giving effect to the intention of the parties to an
instrument of conveyance, the courts have kept this principle
in view. Where the particular covenants and the general
covenants are entirely independent of each other and of a
different character, they will all stand. The statute enumerates the three covenants which the words 'grant, bargain and
sell' are declared to imply, as distinct and independent covenants. The second may be superfluous, but it does not therefore limit the first, which is independent of and inconsistent
with it."
It appears to us, however, that where the question arises not
upon the covenants in a deed, but upon the construction of a
statute which turns certain words of grant into express covenants, the same rule of construction does not apply. In respect
to deeds, the words are to be taken most strongly against the
party using them, while in respect to statutes, if in derogation of the common law, as that under consideration is, they
should be construed strictly. And, so construed, the statute
of New Mexico seems clearly within the conclusion reached in
G'atz v. Ewalt. The covenant that the grantor is "seized of
an indefeasible estate in fee simple" is a covenant for a perfect
title, and to couple with it a covenant that the land is free
from incumbrances, "made or suffered to be made by the
grantor, or by any person claiming the same under him," is
incongruous and repugnant, unless the prior covenant is held
to mean "notwithstanding any act done by the grantor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

But apart from this, as the statute invests the words "bargained and sold" with an effect they did not possess at common law, we think it was not intended that those words should
so operate where the parties themselves have entered into covenants. In T-eems v. MeCaughctn, 7 Smedes & Marsh. 422,
427, it is said: "The covenants raised by law from the use of
particular words are only intended to be operative where the
parties themselves have omitted to insert covenants. But
where the party declares how far he will be bound to warrant,
that is the extent of his covenant."
And the same result is reached and announced by the
Supreme Court of Illinois in Finley v. Steele, 23 Illinois, 56,
in which case Mr. .Justice Walker, speaking for the court,
says that "this statutory provision does not create this covenant against the intention of the parties;" that "the employment of any language from which it appears the parties
intended that these words should not have such an effect,"
does away with the statutory covenant; that all statutes in
derogation of the common law must be construed strictly;
that if there is a doubt whether where there is a general covenant of warranty in the deed, such a case is embraced within
the provisions of the statute, it should not be held as controlling the rights of the parties ; that "there is scarcely a court
before which this act has come for a construction, that has not
characterized it as a provision of dangerous tendency, calculated to entrap the ignorant and unwary into liability which
they never intended to incur;" that the rule is familiar that
"the expression of one thing is the exclusion of another;"
and "where the grantor inserts a covenant of general warranty, and omits all other covenants, that it must have been
his intention to bind himself alone by the covenant he has
inserted;" that under the statutory covenant "the breach
occurs, if at all, upon the delivery of the deed, whilst under
the covenant of general warranty a breach only takes place
upon an eviction;" and that, "if the grantor were to write
out this statutory covenant in a deed, and also insert a covenant of general warranty, it would present a very different
question, as then it would by that act appear to be his inten-

DOUGLASS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of tjhe Court.

tion that both covenants should be operative. In such a case
the court would have to give effect to each, so far as it was
not limited by the other."
These views strike us as sensible and just, and we concur with
the Supreme Court of the Territory in its approval of them.
Chancellor Kent pointed out in his Commentaries the danger from importing into a deed, express covenants created by
statute, "of imposition upon the ignorant and unwary, if any
covenant be implied, that is not stipulated in clear and precise
terms."
The covenant of warranty and that of seisin or of right to
convey are not equivalent covenants. Defect of title will sustain an action upon the one, while disturbance of possession
is requisite to recover upon the other. And we cannot hold
that Lewis and wife, in covenanting for quiet enjoyment,
intended to be bound by a covenant outside of their express
agreement, which might impose a liability upon them the
instant their deed was executed and delivered. Covenants of
seisin a-Ad of good right to convey are broken, if at all, when
the deed is delivered, and if the grantor is not well seized, or
if he has not the power to convey, an action at once accrues.
But as Douglass was in possession when he commenced his
action, it does not appear to be material to him whether he
stands upon the covenant of general warranty in the deed or
of seisin in the statute.
Whife the Supreme Court of Missouri has held that the
covenant created by the statute may be imposed upon a
grantor, notwithstanding he has warranted generally in the
conveyance, yet the rule is there equally well settled, that the
statutory covenant of seisin is merely a covenant for indemnity, and that nominal damages only are recoverable until
the estate conveyed is defeated or real injury sustained.
Diekson v. .Desirg'sAdmir., 23 iMissouri, 151 ; Collier v. Ganbll, 10 Missouri, 467.
In that view the grantee is protected by the general covenant of warranty substantially to the same extent as by the
statutory covenant, and the conclusion is strengthened that
where one is expressly inserted in the deed the other ought
not to be implied.

