OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court..

As to the residue of the decree, amounting to $576,707.92,
founded on the judgments recovered against persons in possession of various portions of the property, claiming under sales
made by the city of New Orleans, whiilst those persons would
have been proper parties to the suit, in order that it might
,appear that the sums recovered against them had not been
released -or compromised for less amounts than the face of the
judgments, and that they might be bound by the decree, still,
as the objection of want of parties was not specifically made,
and as it would be a great hardship on all the parties concerned to have to begin this litigation over again, we do not
think that the bill should be dismissed on that ground, but
that the said sum of $576,707.92 should be allowed to the
complainant, with interest thereon, as provided in the. decree
of the Circuit Court, subject, however, to the qualification
that if the defendant can show that any of the said judgments
have been compromised and settled for any less sums than the
face thereof, with interest, the defendant should be entitled
to the benefit of a corresponding reduction in the decree; and
a reasonable time should be allowed for the purpose of showing such compromises if any have been made.
The result is that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
.Reversed and the cause remanded,with instructions to enter
a decree in conformity with this opinion.
The CmIEF JusTrcE and MR. JUsTIcE LmAR were not members of the court when this case was argued, and took no part
in its decision.

New Orleansv. United States ex 'el.: Gaines'sAdministrators; _New
Orleans v. United States ex rel.: Gaines'sAdministrators. Appeals
from and in error to the Circuit Couit of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana. Nos. 2, 3. Argued October 13, 14,
1887. Decided lay 13, 1889. 1\NI. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the
opinion of the court.. The decision just made in the case of The
Pty of New Orleans v. .lfyra Clark Gaines renders it necessary
that the judgment or decree in this case should be reversed, and

HOLLON PARKER, Petitioner.
Counsel for Parties.

it is reversed accordingly, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the petition.
Reversed.
Mr. Hfenry . MIiller and Mr. J" . Beckwitl for appellant. Mr5.
John. A. Camp)bell, Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and Mr. Afred Goldthwaite for appellees.

HOLLOK. PARKER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 5. Original.

Submitted'April 26, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

An appeal taken from the judgment of a District Court in Washington
Territory to the Supreme Court, under the territorial act of N6vember
23, 1883, in relation to the removal of causes to the Supreme Court, is a
matter of right, if taken within the prescribed time, and no notice of
intention to take it need be given.
Rights, under our system of law and procedure, do not rest in the discretionary authority of any officer, judicial or otherwise.
The chambers of a district judge of Washington Territory, who is also a
judge of the Supreme Court of the Territory, may be held whilst he is
in attendance upon the Supreme Court at the place where such court is
sitting, although it be without the territorial limits of his district, and
at such chambers he may receive notice of an appeal from a judgment
rendered by him within his district.
Mandamus lies where an inferior court refuses to take jurisdiction, when by
law it ought to do so, or when, having obtained jurisdiction, it refuses to
proceed in its exercise. Exparte Brown, 116 U. S. 401, distinguished.
A writ of mandamus to correct a mistake of an inferior court as to its jurisdiction may issue to the court and to its judges, although the court is
composed of different members from those by whom the error complained
of was commiited.

PEiTIoN for a writ of mandamus.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
r'. John -H. Mitchell for the petitioner.
.A.. If. If. U~ton, .&. C. B. ~Upton, .M. John B. Allen,
Mr. B. L. Sharpstein' and .r. TJ L. Sharsteirnopposing.

