SAVIN, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

out in the notice itself. We cannot imagine that any one
could be deceived by the imperfection."
The reasoning of the Michigan Supreme Court, in our
opinion, is sound, and its conclusion correct.
There are no other features of the case that call for extended
discussion or even special mention.
Upon the whole case, we think the judgment of the court
A4flbmed.
below was correct, and it is, accordingly,

SAY

, Petitioner.

AppEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1553.

Argued April 25,18S9.- Decided M1ay 13, 1889.

The courts of the United States have power to punish, by fine or imprisonment, at their discretion, misbehavior in their presence, or misbehavior so*
near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, although the
offence is also punishable by indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5399.
Attempting to deter a witness, in attendance upon a court of the United
States in obedience to a subpoena, and while he is near the court room,
in the jury-room temporarily used as witness-room, from testifying for
the party in whose behalf he was summoned, and offering him, when in
the hallway of the court, money not to testify against the defendant, is
misbehavior in the presence of the court.
Within the meaning of § 725, the court, at least when in session, is present
in every part of the place set apart for its own use, and for the use of its
officers, jurors and witnesses; and misbehavior anywhere in such place
is misbehavior in the presence of the court.
Although the word "summary," as used in the first section of the act of
March 3, 1831, (4 Stat. 487, c. 99,) was omitted from the present revision
of the statutes, the courts of the United States have the power to punish by fine or imprisonment, at their discretion, contempts of their authority, in the cases defined in § 725.
In proceeding against a party for contempt, the court is not bound to require service of interrogatories upon the appellant to afford him an opportunity to purge himself of contempt in answering, but may, in its
discretion, adopt such mode of determining the question as it deems
proper, having due regard to the essential rules that prevail in the trial
of matters of contempt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as follows:

The appellant, claiming to be illegally imprisoned under
color of the authority of the United States, presented to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of California his petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The
prayer for the writ was denied, and the petition was dismissed.
This appeal brings up the judgment of the court for review.
It appears that on the 27th day of February, 1SS9, the District Attorney stated to the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of California that he had been informed that one of the witnesses for the government in the
case of T e UnitedZ States v..ippolyte Goujon, then pending
in that court, had been corruptly approached, and an effort
made to intimidate him from testifying. The witness alleged
to have been thus approached was on the same day examined
under oath in open court, in the presence of the respondent,
.who was in the custody of the marshal. The evidence was
taken down by a stenographer, designated by the court and
acting under oath. As the result of that examination an order
was made that the appellant be cited to show cause before the
District Court, at a specified hour, on the next day, why he
should not be adjudged guilty of contempt. On the succeeding day, the citation having been duly served, the matter came
on for hearing, the respondent being present in court, and
represented by counsel. He demanded of the prosecution
"service of interrogatories." The demand was denied by the
court, and to that ruling he excepted. Witnesses having been
examined on behalf of the government, and the respondent
having testified in his own behalf, (but to what effect does not
appear from the record,) and the matter having been submitted,
the District Court, upon the testimony taken down by the
stenographer, entered the following order and judgment:
"Whereas, during the progress of the trial of the action of
The United States of America v. Hf. Goujon, in this court, on
the 27th day of Februaryl 1889, one Bartolo Flores, a witness
on the part of the government duly subpcenaed and in attend-

SAVIiN, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

ance upon the court, testified, in substance, that while in said
attendance, on said 27th of February, one Alejandro Savin,
on two several occasions, once in the jury-room of said court,
temporarily used for witnesses, and within a few feet of the
court-room, and once in the hallway of said court building,
immediately adjoining said court-room, did approach said witness, and in said jury-room did improperly endeavor to deter
the said witness from testifying in behalf of the government
in said cause, and in the said hallway he offered the said witness money not to testify against the defendant in said action
of The United States v. Goujon; and whereas, upon such testimony of said Flores, this court then and there made an order
directing the said Savin to show cause before this court, at
9.30 o'clock A.M., on the 28th day of February, 1889, at the
court-room thereof, why he should not be adjudged guilty of
a contempt of this court; and whereas, on said 28th day of
February, the said Savin appeared with counsel in response
to said order; whereupon the said matter was heard in open
court, and witnesses for and against him were sworn, and their
testimony given, and the same having been duly considered
by the court, the court now finds the facts to be: That during
the progress of the trial of the action of 2Te United States
of Ameri a v. H. Goujon, in this court, on the 27th day of
February, 1889, one Bartolo Flores, a witness on behalf of the
government, duly subpoenaed and in attendance upon the court,
while in such attendance, on the said 27th day of February,
was on two several occasions, once in the jury-room of said
court, which was temporarily used for a-witness-room, and
which is located within less than seven feet of the court-room,
and once in the hallway of said court building, immediately
adjoining the court-room, was approached by the respondent,
Alejandro Savin, and said Savin did then and there, in said
jury-room, unlawfully attempt and endeavor to deter said witness, Flores, from testifying for the government in the aforesaid action, and in said hallway the said Savin did at the time
stated unlawfully offer the said witness, Flores, money not to
testify against the defendant therein, the aforesaid Goujon;
from which facts it is considered and adjudged by the court

OCTOBER TER-,

1888.

Argument for Appellant.

that the said respondent, Alejandro Savin, did thereby commit
a contempt of this court, for which contempt it is by the court
now ordered and adjudged that the said Alejandro Savin be
imprisoned in the countyjail of Los Angeles County, California,
for the period of one year.
"The marshal will execute this judgment forthwith.
"Ross, -DistrictJudge."
"February 28, 1889.
Pursuant to that order, and in conformity with a warrant,
reciting that he had been convicted of a contempt of the court,
the respondent was committed to jail. In his petition he
claimed that the District Court had no jurisdiction or legal
authority to try and sentence him in the manner and form
above stated, for these reasons: 1. The matters set out in the
judgment do not constitute a contempt of court provided for
by § 725 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. 2.
The proceedings were insufficient to give the court jurisdiction to render judgment. 3. The judgment is not based or
founded upon any proceedings* in due course of law, and is,
therefore, void.
Xr. J. A. Anderson for appellant.
I. The District Court had no jurisdiction to summarily
punish appellant for the matters and things set out in its judgment ordering his imprisonment.
The only jurisdiction that District and Circuit Courts of the
United States have to punish for contempt is derived from the
act of March 2, 1831, 4 Stat. 487, c. 99, now §§ 725, 5399, of
the Revised Statutes. The language of that statute is imperative. "The power of the several courts of the United States
to issue attachment and inflict summary punishment for contempt of court shall not be construed to extend to any cases
except," etc.
The act then proceeds to state the cases of contempt that
could be punished summarily, and then in the second section
points out the cases that should be punished by indictment.
The obvious intent of this imperative limitation was to pre-

SAVYI , Petitioner.
Argument for Appellant.

vent the United States courts from following the example of
the English courts in summarily punishing persons for contempt, in a vast variety of cases, which they held to be
constructive contempts.
Congress obviously thought that all that was necessary for
the prompt vindication of the dignity and authority of the
court was to empower the court to punish summarily: (1) Mlisbehavior, causing a disturbance of which the judge holding
the court was conscious and could perceive through his senses,
in the immediate presence of the court, or so near thereto as
to prevent the court from duly proceeding in the administration of justice; (2) misbehavior of its officers in their official
duties; (3) disobedience to its orders, judgments, or processes.
Congress also obviously thought that all other cases which
the English courts had been in the habit of summarily punishing as contempts might safely be relegated to the usual mode
of punishing crimes.
Now, as the first section of the act deprived the court of
the power to summarily punish a number of graver offences
in the nature of contempts, and that had theretofore been
summarily punished as contempts, it became necessary to
make them punishable by indictment, and hence the necessity
for the second section of the act.
The second section therefore provides that persons shall be
punished by indictment who shall corruptly interfere with any
juror, witness, or officer in any court of the United States, in
the discharge of his duty, or who shall corruptly or by threats
or force obstruct or impede or endeavor to obstruct or impede
the due couise of justice therein-that is, such acts, even
though they did not occur in the presence of the court, and
though the court was not conscious of them at the time they
occurred. See Exyarte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 511"; .Zarwell
v. State, 10 Lea, 547.
II: The proceedings upon which the judgment of contempt
was based were not in due course of law, and were not of
a character upon which a valid judgment could be based,
because: (1) No written specifications of the facts constituting the contempt were furnished Savin, (but when demanded

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

were denied,) so as to give him the opportunity of purging himself of the contempt; (2) the judgment of the court is based
upon the testimony of witnesses, whereas the only valid judgment the court could render in a case of criminal constructive
contempt is one based upon the answer of the defendanteither dismissing the proceeding or punishing the defendant,
according as his answer either denied or confessed the alleged
contempt; (3) even if it were lawful to have a trial and take
testimony in this class of cases, yet it could only have been
done upon an issue formed upon a specific charge in writing
and an answer denying it; whereas in this case the proceedings
were purely oral.
Even if the court had jurisdiction to summarily punish for
the matters set out in the judgment, yet the judgment is void
on account of the departure by the court from the mode of
procedure in criminal contempt cases, established by the common law courts from time imniemorial: a mode always followed in England and in this country, except when a different
mode is prescribed by statute.
This mode was to reduce the charge to writing of some
kind, (an affidavit, order to show cause, interrogatories, etc.,)
specifically designating and setting out the facts constituting
the alleged contempt. Then to serve a copy on the defendant
and give him the opportunity of answering' the charge, and
then if he fully and explicitly denied the charge under oath,
to dismiss the proceedings and not permit the answer to be
contradicted by the testimony of others.
In this case no writing specifically setting out the facts
constituting the alleged contempt was ever served upon the
defendant. When he called for interrogatories they were
denied him. The whole proceeding was oral, and the judgment was based on the testimony of witnesses contradicting
the testimony of defendant denying the charge.
In considering the nature of proceedings leading to a judgment of contempt, the cases should be divided into two
classes: (1) Those cases in which the facts necessary to base
the conviction on 'are known to the judge or judges by their
senses of seeing, hearing, etc.; (2) those cases in which the

SAVMI,

Petitioner.

2'T3

Argument for Appellant.

facts necessary to base the conviction on must be brought to
the knowledge of the court by the testimony of witnesses.
In the class of direct cases, from necessity and the very
nature of things, the judge acts instantly on his own observation and knowledge and adjudges the party guilty of contempt, and the only writing, paper or record entry consists of
the judgment and warrant of committaL In this class of
cases this entire departure from the fundamental law of the
land in relation to criminal proceedings is based alone on
necessity, and should be carried not a step further than is
necessary.
In the class of constructive cases, as a basis of the proceedings there must be some affidavit, record, interrogatories or
some writing stating and specifying the facts constituting the
alleged contempt on which to base the order of arrest or
attachment and to which the defendant may demur, plead o
answer, and when he has answered, purging himself of 4=,.
tempt, no evidence contradicting it can be heard. .rh P&
Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Exparte Wright, 65 Indiana, 504 509.
The proceeding for constructive contempt should be. commenced either by a rule to show cause or by an atfachrment.
WVhittem, v. State, 36 Ins. 196; and Bo pm€fp IVP' ft, wui
sup. The defendant should be allowed to answer' nder oath,
and after he has frlly and explicitly denied the facts constituting the charge specifically made against him he should be
discharged and no evidence be allowed to contradict him.
Burk v. State, 27 Indiana, 430; In the, matter' of John Pitman, 1 Curtis, 186; .k,re .May, 2 Flippin, 56a; Ex ycirto MIgore, 3 Texas App. 247; iExopate, Field, 1 California, 187;
Ex parte Rowe, 7 Cal. 181; Ez _parte .Langdon, 25 Vt. 678,
682; . . 60 Am. Dec. 296.
.Mr. Solicitor General and .M". George J. Denis, United
States attorney for the Southern District of California, opposing.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL. cx-xx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The power of the courts of the United States to punish
rcontempts of their authority is not merely incidental to their

general power to exercise judicial functions, but, as was said
in Ex parte Tenry, 128 U. S. 289, 304, where this subject was
considered, is expressly recognized and the cases in which it
may be exercised are defined, by acts of Congress. The judiciary act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 17, invests them with
"power to punish by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion
of said courts, all contempts of authority in any cause or
hearing before the same." 1 Stat. 83. By an act of Congress
of March 2, 1831, c. 99, 4 Stat.. 481, "declaratory of the law
concerning contempts of court," it was enacted:
"That the power of the several courts of the United States
to issue attachments and inflict summary punishments for contempts of court, shall not be construed to extend to any cases
,except the misbehavior of any person or persons in the pres.ence of the said courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the
administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of the said courts in their official transactions, and the
disobedience or resistance by any officer of the said courts,
party, juror, witness or any other person or persons, to any
lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree or command of the
said courts.
"Sec. 2. That if any person or persons shall corruptly, or
by threats or force, endeavor to influence, intimidate, or impede any juror, witness, or officer, in any court of the United
States, in the discharge of his duty, or shall, corruptly, or by
threats or force, obstruct, or impede, or endeavor to obstruct
or impede, the due administration of justice therein, every person or persons, so offending, shall be liable to prosecution therefor, by indictment, and shall, on conviction thereof, be punished, by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding three months, or both, according to the
nature and aggravation of the offence."
Section 725 of the Revised Statutes, title "The Judiciary,"
is in these words: "The said courts shall have power to impose
and administer all necessary oaths, and to punish, by fine or
imprisonment, at*.the discretion of the court, contempts of

SAVIN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

their authority: Provided, that such power to punish contempts shall not be construed to extend to any cases except
the misbehavior of any person in their presence, or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of said courts in their official
transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any such
officer, or by any party, juror, witness, or other person, to any
lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree; or command of the
said courts."
The second section of the act of 1831 is in part reproduced
in § 5399 of the Revised Statutes, title "Crimes."
That section is as follows: "Every person who corruptly, or by threats
or force, endeavors to influence, intimidate, or impede any
witness, or officer in any court of the United States, in the
discharge of his duty, or corruptly, or by threats or force, obstructs or impedes, or endeavors to obstruct or impede, the due
administration of justice therein, shall be punished by a fine
of not more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not
more than three months, or both."
It is contended that the substance of the charge against the
appellant is, that he endeavored, by forbidden means, to
influence or "impede" a witness in the District Court from
testifying in a cause pending therein, and to obstruct or impede the due administration of justice, which offence is embraced by § 5399, and, it is argued, is punishable only by
indictment. Undoubtedly, the offence charged is embraced
by that section, and is punishable by indictment. But the statute does not make that mode exclusive, if the offence be committed under such circumstances as to bring it within the
power of the court under § 725 ; when, for instance, the offender
is guilty of misbehavior in its presence, or misbehavior so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice. The act
of 1789 did not define what were contempts of the authority
of the courts of the United States, in any cause or hearing
before them, nor did it prescribe any special procedure for determining a matter of contempt. Under that statute the
question whether particular acts constituted a contempt, as
well as the mode of proceeding against the offender, was left

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to be determined according to such established rules and principles of the common law as were applicable to our situation.
The act of 1831, however, materially modified that of 1789,
in that it restricted the power of the courts to inflict summary
punishments for contempt to certain specified cases, among
which was misbehavior in the :presence of the court, or misbehavior so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice. EL parte BoTinqon, 19 Wall. 505, 511. And although
the word "summary" was, for some reason, not repeated in
the present revision, which invests the courts of the United
States with power "to punish by fine or imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court, contempts of their authority" in
certain cases defined in § 725, we do not doubt that the
power to proceed summarily, for contempt, in those cases, remains, as under the act of 1831, with those courts. It was, in
effect, so adjudged in Exparte Teiy, above cited.
The question then arises, whether the facts recited in the
final order in the District Court as constituting the contempt
- which facts must be taken in this collateral proceeding to be
true -make a case of misbehavior in the presence of that court,
or misbehavior so near thereto as to obstruct the administration
of justice therein. There may be misbehavior in the presence
of a court amounting to contempt, that would not, ordinarily,
be said to obstruct the administration of justice. So there
may be misbehavior, not in the immediate presence of the
court, but outside of and in the vicinity of the building in
which the court is held, which, on account of its disorderly
character, would actually interrupt the court, being in session,
in the conduct of its business, and consequently obstruct the
administration of justice.
Flores, we have seen, was in attendance upon the court in
obedience to a subpoena commanding him to appear as a witness in behalf of one of the parties to a case then being tried.
'While he was so in attendance, and when in the jury-room,
temporarily used a a witness-room, the appellant endeavored
to deter him from testifying in favor of the government in
whose behaLf he had been summoned; and, on the same occasion, and while the witness was in the hallway of the court

SAVIN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

room, the appellant offered him money not to testify against
Goujon, the defendant in that case. Was not this such misbehavior upon the part of the appellant as made him liable,
under § 725, to fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of the
court ? This question cannot reasonably receive any other than
an affirmative answer. The jury-room and hallway, where the
misbehavior occurred, were parts of the place in which the
court was required by law to hold its sessions. It was held in
Heard v. Piece, 8 Cash. 338, 341; that "the grand jury, like
the petit jury, is an appendage of the court, acting under the
authority of the court, and the witnesses summoned before
them are amenable to the court, precisely as the witnesses testifying before the petit jury are amenable to the court."
Bacon, in his essay on Judicature, (No. LVrI,) says: "The
place of justice is an hallowed place; and therefore not only
the bench, but the footpace and precincts and purprise thereof
ought to be preserved against scandal and corruption." We
are of opinion that, within the meaning of the statute, the
court, at least when in session, is present in every part of the
place set apart for its own use, and for the use of its officers,
jurors and witnesses; and misbehavior anywhere in such place
is misbehavior in the presence of the court. It is true that the
mode of proceeding for contempt is not the same in every
case of such misbehavior. Where the contempt is committed
directly under the eye or within the view of the court, it may
proceed "upon its own knowledge of the facts, and punish the
offender, without further proof, and without issue or trial in
any form," Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 309; whereas, in
cases of misbehavior of which the judge cannot fiave such
personal knowledge, and is informed thereof only by the confession of the party, or by the testimony under oath of others,
the proper practice is, by rule or other process, to require the
offender to appear and show cause why he should not be punished. 4 BI. Com. 286. But this difference in procedure does
not affect the question as to whether particular acts do not,
within the meaning of the statute, constitute misbehavior in
the presence of the court. If, while Flores was in the courtroom, waiting to be called as a witness, the appellant had at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

tempted to deter him from testifying on behalf of the government, or had there offered him money not to testify against
Goujon, it could not be doubted that he would have been guilty
of misbehavior in the presence of the court, although the
judge might not have been personally cognizant at the time of
what occurred. But if such attempt and offer occurred in the
hallway just outside of the court-room, or in the witness-room,
where Flores was waiting, in obedience to the subpoena served
upon him, or pursuant to the order of the court, to be called
into the court-room as a witness, must it be said that such misbehavior was not in the presence of the court? Clearly not.
We are of opinion that the conduct of the appellant, as
described in the final order of the District Court, was misbehavior in its presence, for which he was subject to be punished
without indictment, by fine or imprisonment, at its discretion,
as provided in § '5 of the Revised Statutes. And this view
renders it unnecessary to consider whether, as argued, the
words "so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice" refer only to cases of misbehavior, outside of the
court-r.oom, or in the vicinity of the court building, causing
such open or violent disturbance of the quiet and order of the
court, while in session, as to actually interrupt the transaction
of its business.
It is, however, contended that the proceedings in the District Court were insufficient to give that court jurisdiction to
render judgment. This contention, is based mainly upon the
refusal of the court to require service of interrogatories upon
the appellant, so that, in answering them, he could purge
himself of the contempt charged. The court could have
adopted that mode of trying the question of contempt, but it
was not bound to do so. It could, in its discretion, adopt such
mode of determining that question as it deemed proper, provided due regard was had to the essential rules that obtain in
the trial of matters of contempt.
This principle is illustrated in Randall v. Brig]am, 7 Wall
523, 540, which was an action for damages against the judge
of a court of general jurisdiction, who removed the plaintiff
from his office as an attorney at law, on account of malprac-

SA IN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

tice and gross misconduct in his office. One of his contentions
was that the court never acquired jurisdiction to act in his
case, because no formal accusation was made against him, nor
any statement of thfe grounds of complaint, nor a formal cita-

tion against him to answer them. The court, after observing
that the informalities of the notice did not touch the question

of jurisdiction, and that the plaintiff understood from the
notice received the nature of the charge against him, said:
"He was afforded ample opportunity to explain the transaction and vindicate his conduct. He introduced testimony
upon the matter, and was sworn himself. It is not necessary

that proceedings against attorneys for malpractice, or any unprofessional conduct, should be founded upon formal allega-

tions against them. Such proceedings are often instituted
upon information developed in the progress of a cause; or
from what the court learns of the conduct of the attorney
from its own observation. Sometimes they are moved by
third parties upon affidavit; and sometimes they are taken by
the court upon its own motion. All that is requisite to their
validity is that, when not taken for matters occurring in open
court, in the presence of the judges, notice should be given to
the attorney of the charges made, and opportunity afforded
him for explanation and defence. The manner in which the
proceeding shall be conducted, so that it be without oppression
or unfairness, is a matter of judicial regulation." So, in the
present case, if the appellant was entitled, of right, to purge
himself, under oath, of the contempt, that right was not denied
to him; for it appears from the proceedings in the District
Court, made part of the petition for habeas co'ipus, not only
that e was informed of the nature of the charges against him
by the testimony of Flores, taken down by a sworn stenographer at the preliminary examination, but that he was
present at the hearing of the contempt, was represented by
counsel, testified under oath in his own behalf, and had full
opportunity to make his defence.
Our conclusion is that the District Court had jurisdiction of
the subject matter, and of the person, and that irregularities,
if any, occurring in the mere conduct of the case, do not affect

