DENT v. FERGUSON.
Statement of the Case

AXn. John F. Lacey for the motion.
There is only one point involved in this motion. The plaintiff in error caused the removal of the cause from the District
Court of Iowa to the United States Circuit Court.
The defendant in error moved to remand the cause to the
state court. This motion was submitted before Justice Miller
and Judge Lorr and the motion sustained. The cause was
removed and also remanded prior to the act of March 3d,
1887, but the writ of error was not sued out until after the
passage of that act. It follows that when the right to sue out
a writ of error in a cause that had been remanded was cut off
by tie statute, there being no reservation in relation to any
past orders the jurisdiction was cut off, and so writ of error will
not lie.
No one opposing.
Pr

ouxi x: This case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

DENT v. FERGUSON.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN AN APPEAL

FROM THE cIRcurr

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENINESSEE.
No. 269. Submitted March 18, 1889.-Decided April 1,1889.

Under the circumstances set forth in the motion papers below, the court, as
to so much of the record as was printed by order of the court below, dispenses with the filing of ten of the twenty-five copies required by Rule
10 to be printed for the use of the court and counsel, and remits the
clerk's fees for supervision of printing.

THis was a motion, entitled in No. 269, "to suspend section
2, rule 10, and so much of the rules, as requires 25 copies to be
filed, and allowing 15 copies to be filed instead." The motion
and supporting papers were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

To the Honorablethe Chief Justice and Associate Justices of
the' Supreme Court of the United States.
PETITION OF APPELLANTS

To suspend Section 2, Rule 10, and so much of Rule
as requires 25 copies
to be filed, and allowing 15 copies to be filed instead.

George G. Dent, Sarah L. Dent, H. G. Dent, Jr., Susan
Dent, appellants herein, respectfully state to your Honors,
that when this cause was heard in the court below, before Mr.
Justice Stanley Matthews and the Hon. E. S. Hammond, it
was ordered by them that the entire record be printed out of
the funds in the hands of the Receiver, which was done, at a
cost of about one thousand dollars, ($1000,) and the records
were printed in size and form required by the rules of this
court, with the assurance that when the cause came to this
court a reprint would not be required of any-portion of the
record, except such as might be made after the cause was
heard, and such printing was accordingly done under the
supervision of the Clerk of the United States Circuit Court at
Memphis, who was paid therefor the sum of $500.
Since the cause came to this court, and on the 7th day of
July, 1888, the Clerk of this court sent petitioners a notice
that it would require $1825 to print the record, to wit:
Clerk's Fees ........

Printing ....

.

............

Less sum deposited ..

........

.

.

$ 800.00

..

1050.00

..

$1850.00
25.00
$1825.00

A copy of which letter is made Exhibit A hereto.
They further represent that the Clekk of this court has notified them that if they could furnish twenty-five copies and
$100 to print the record, not already printed, and his fee of
$800 for supervising the whole record, that the transcript
could be gotten ready.
Petitioners can furnish ffteen copies of the record as already

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Statement of the Case.

printed, and can raise the $100 to pay the additional printing,
but are powerless to raise the $800 charge of the Clerk for
supervising the printing, which petitioners insist should only
include so much of the record as has not been heretofore
printed, and which the Clerk estimates at $100.
They are poor, and are informed and believe they will be
able to so change the decree as made, as to give them substantial relief.
They file herewith the certificates of the Hon. E. S. IHammond, Judge, and J. B. Clough, Clerk of the court, in corroboration of' this their statement, and ask that upon the filing
of fifteen copies of the record so printed and depositing the
$100 estimated cost of printing the balance of the record, and
whatever is proper cost to the Clerk of this court for supervising the printing of the remaining unprinted record, that
they be allowed to have the record printed and their rights
determined. All of which is respectfully submitted.
D. H. PosToN,
iSolicitor for Petitioners.

At the request of counsel, I will state that at the time the
printing was ordered in the Circuit Court Mr. Justice Matthews
stated in substance that he would see that the printing need
not be duplicated in the Supreme Court, by which I understood that he would ask that court to so direct.
E. S. HAMoN,

U. S. District udge.
January 24, 1889.
NMmrnis, Tmqr~ssEE, January 24, 1889.
I was not Clerk of the United States Circuit Court when the
record in the above case was printed, but under an order of
the court, (printed record, p. 130,) as Master in Chancery, had the
record as it then existed, printed, and for my services in that
regard was paid by the Receiver, by direction of the court, the
sum of five hundred dollars.
JoaN B. CLOUGH.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

I, T. B. EDGINGTON, counsel for Isaac Ferguson and others,
complainants in cause No. 269, October Term, 1888, acknowledge service of a copy of this record, and notice, and consent
that the record as made may be handed to the Supreme Court
of the United States for its action, waiving any objections that
I may be entitled to.
January 23, 1889.
EXHIBIT A.
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
WASHINGTON, D. C., July 7, 1888.

Sm -It
becones necessary, under the provisions of Rule
10, that your clients immediately provide the money necessary
to pay for printing the record and the clerk's fees, in the case
of Geo. G. Dent, et al., appellants, v. Isaac A. Ferguson, et al.,
No. 269, October Term, 1888. This is the only notice that
wil be given you by the clerk, and if the parties fail to comply, the case when reached in the regular call of the docket
will be dismissed pursuant to section 2 of said rule.
In this ease the amount estimated is as follows, viz.:
Clerk's fees ...
Printing ....
Total .....

...
.

...........
............

..

............

Deduct amount on deposit ........
Total amount to be furnished

.

.

$800 00
1050 00
$1850 00

...

$25 00

.

$1825 00

The amount paid for printing and clerk's fees, in case of a
reversal of the judgment or decree, will be taxed on the mandate, and be recoverable from the unsuccessful party.
The fees accruing to the clerk belong to the United States,
and it is his duty to collect them.
See Rule 10, secs. 2 and 6, and an extract from the decision
of the court in Steever v. Rioeman, printed on the back of this
notice.
Respectfully, etc.,
JAMEs H. McKEN EY, Clerk.

