OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

COLER v. OLEBURINTE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 728. Submitted January 3, 1885. -Decideo

May 13, 1859.

Where a case is tried by a Circuit Court, on the written waiver of a jury,
and there is a bill of exceptions which sets forth the facts which were
proved, that is a sufficient special finding of facts to authorize this
Court, under ยง 700 of the Revised Statutes, to determine whether the
facts found are sufficient to support the judgment.
A statute of Texas provided that bonds to be issued by a city, for erecting
water works, should be signed by the mayor, and forwarded by him to
the state comptroller for registration. Bonds issued for that purpose
were dated January 1, 1884, but not signed till July 3, 1884, and then
were not signed by the mayor, but, under a resolution of the city council, were signed by a private citizen, who had been mayor on January 1,
1884, but had gone out of office in April, 1884, and been succeeded by a
new mayor, and who appended the word "mayor" to his signature. The
bonds stated on their face that they were authorized by a statute of
Texas, and an ordinance of the city, specifying both. In a suit against
the city, to recover on coupons cut from the bonds, brought by a bona
fide holder of them; Held,
(1) No one could lawfully sign the bonds but the person who was mayor
of the city when they were signed;
(2) The city council had no authority to provide for their signature by
any other person;
(3) The city was not estopped as against the plaintiff, from showing the
facts as to the signature of the bonds;
(4) The bonds were invalid,
The case distinguished from Weyauwega v. Ayling, 99 U. S. 112, and controlled by Anthony v. County of Jasper,101 U. S. 693.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Texas, by W. N.
Coler, Junior, against the city of Cleburne, a municipal corporation of Texas, to recover on 231 coupons, of $35 each,
amounting to $8190, cut from a series of 51 bonds, of $1000
each, purporting to have been executed and issued by that
corporation. The case was tried by the court, on the written

COLER v. CLEBURNE.
Statement of the Case.

waiver of a jury, and, having heard the evidence, it adjudged
that the plaintiff take nothing by his suit, and that the defendant go without day and recover its costs. The plaintiff
has brought a writ of error.
There is no special finding of facts, but there is a bill. of
exceptions, which, after setting forth what was proved, states,
that the court, on the pleadings and proof, found the law for
the defendant, and rendered final judgment for it and against
the plaintiff, for costs of suit. This is a sufficient special finding of facts to authorize us, under ยง 700 of the Revised Statutes, to determine whether the facts found are sufficient to
support the judgment.
The plaintiff, in his petition and four supplemental petitions,
alleged that he was the bona fide owner, holder and bearer,
before maturity, of the coupons, for a valuable consideration
paid; that the bonds were issued by the city for the purpose
of erecting a system of water works; and that the bonds and
coupons were made and issued in pursuance of article 420 of
the Revised Statutes of the State of Texas, and of an ordinance adopted by the city council of the defendant, September 13, 1883.
The defendant, with other pleas, interposed one, called in
the record a plea of non estfactum, which says, that the bonds
and coupons in question are not the obligations of the defendant, and were never executed and delivered by it, because they
never had any existence prior to July 3, 1884; that they were
never signed by J. 21. Odell, (who had, on the first Tuesday
in April, 1884, been duly elected to the office of mayor of said
city for a term of two years, and was on the 3d of July, 1884,
the legally qualified and acting mayor of the city,) or by his
authority, or by any person authorized by law to act as mayor
of the city; that said mayor at all times refused to sign the
same; that, although said bonds and coupons purport, on
their face, to have been executed on January 1, 1884, and to
be signed by the mayor of the city, they were in fact made
on the 3d of July, 1884, and antedated, and signed by one
W. N. Hodge, a private citizen, but formerly mayor of the
city, whose term of office had expired in April, 1884; that

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of th

Case.

any registration of the- bonds in the office of the comptroller
of public accounts of the State of Texas was illegal and without authQrity, because they were never forwarded to the
comptroller by the mayor, Odell, or by any person authorized
by him to do so, and he never forwarded to the comptroller
his certificate showing the values of taxable property, real and
personal, in said city for the year 1884, and never authorized
any person so to do; and that 'said bonds and coupons were
never delivered by said mayor, or by his authority, or by any
person authorized to act as mayor of the city, to the Texas
Water and Gas Company, or to any other person or persons.
The plaintiff filed a demurrer to the above plea, as insufficient in law. The bill of exceptions states that this demurrer
was considered by the court in its general Anding.
The bonds and coupons, which were put in evidence, were
in the following form :
"1000.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
1000.
"No. 51.
$1000.
"The city of Cleburne, in Johnson County, State of Texas,
hereby acknowledges that, for value received, it is indebted
and bound and hereby promises to pay, unto the Texas Water
and Gas Company, or bearer, at the
-,
in the city of New
York, at the expiration of twenty years from the date hereof,
the sum of one thousand dollars in lawful money of the United
States of America, and also that it is bound and will pay
interest on said sum of one thousand dollars, at the rate of
seven per centum. per annum, on the first days of January
and July of each year thereafter, to and including the first day
of January, A.D. 1904, to the bearer, according to the respective coupons therefor hereto attached, for thirty-five dollars
each, signed by the mayor of the city of Cleburne and attested
by the secretary of the city of Cleburne, upon presentation at
the fiscal agency in New York. This bond is authorized by
article 420 of the Revised Statutes of the State of Texas and
by an ordinance adopted by the board of aldermen of the city
of Cleburne, on the 13th day of Sept., 1883, in conformity to
said article 420.

COLER v. CLEBURNE.
Statement of the Case.

"This bond is one of a series of fifty-one of like tenor and

effect, issued for the erection of a complete system of water
works, and is secured by an ordinance of the city of Cleburne
under the general laws of the State, and setting apart all the
net revenues of said water works to pay the interest and sinking fund upon the same, and requiring the council to annually
levy and collect a tax of thirty-five cents on the one hundred
dollars' worth of property, if so much shall be required, to pay
the interest and two per cent sinking fund.
"It is understood that the city of Oleburne shall have the
right to call in any or all the bonds of this series, numbered
from one to fifty-one, respectively, at any time after ten years
from the date of said bonds, upon first giving public notice
thereof in the city organ of the city of Cleburne, for three
months before the first days of January or July in any year,
and interest shall cease from the time they are so called in,
respectively.
"In witness whereof the mayor of the city of Oleburne
hereto signs his name, and the city secretary of the
[L. s.] city of Oleburne attests with the seal of the said city
of Oleburne, hereto affixed, this the first day of January, A.D. 1884.
"W. N. HODGE, .Mafyor.
"Attest: W. H. GnAvvs, Secretary.
" 1000.,,
The bond is indorsed as follows: "51. $1000 city of Cleburne water-works bond; interest seven per cent, payable
July 1st and January 1st of each year. Twenty-years bond.
Registered July 12th, 1884. Win. J. Swain, comptroller."
$35.00.
"$35.00.
"On the first day of July, 1886, the city of Cleburne, State
of Texas, will pay to bearer, in the city of New York, thirtyfive dollars, being six months' interest on water-works bond
No. 51.
"W.. N. HoDGE, -Mayor.

"W. HE.GRAVE~S, Secretary."

166

OCTOBER TERAM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The plaintiff proved that the Texas Water and Gas Company, a corporation, through its proper officers, made a written contract with the city, through its proper officers, on September 13, 1883, to erect for it a complete system of water
works, the material used and the manner of building being
fully shown in specifications and plans, on or before June 1st,
1884, in consideration for which the city agreed to pay the
builder $51,000, in bonds of $1000 each, payable to bearer 20
years after January 1, 1884, bearing interest at seven per
cent, represented by semi-annual coupons for $35 each attached thereto, the same to be engraved, signed by its mayor
and secretary, and delivered to the Texas Water and Gas
Company upon the completion of said system of water Works
according to plans and specifications, and the acceptance
thereof by the city after the same had been duly tested. It
was further proved, that said contract provided that, upon the
works having been tested and the same reported and received
by the city, the builder should be discharged from all further
obligations on account of the works. It was further proved,
that the system of water works was built within the time
agreed upon, and accepted by the city; and that, on the 13th
of September, 1883, the city council adopted an ordinance fully
authorizing the contract above mentioned, a copy of which
ordinance is given in the margin.'
I An ordinance to provide for the construction of water works in the city

of Cleburne, to provide for issuing bonds, and to levy a tax to pay interest and create a sinking fund.
Whereas the city council of the city of Cleburne deem it absolutely necessary that some steps should be taken by the city of Cleburne to protect the
property of the city and citizens against fire; and whereas itis further manifest that the establishment of an efficient system of water works is the most
econ mical protection against fires; and whereas the Texas Water and Gas
Company, a corporation having its chief domicil in the city of Tyler, Smith
County, Texas, has made a proposition, with plans and specifications, to
construct a complete system of wvater works in the city of Cleburne, and for
the city of Cleburne, (as per plaps and specifications now on file in the office
of the city secretary,) for flfty-bne bonds of the city of Cleburne for one
thousand dollars each, with interest at seven per cent per annum, with coupons attached for interest, payable semi-annually; and whereas the city

COLER v. CLEBURNE.
Statement of the Case.

It was also proved, that, after the defendant accepted the
water works, and on uly 3, 1884, the 51 bonds for $51,000
were delivered to the Texas Water and Gas Company, and
council of the city of Cleburne has accepted said proposition of the sail
Texas Water and Gas Company; now, therefore Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Cleburne, That the mayor
and city secretary are hereby authoiized and fully empowered to execute,
sign and deliver for and in behalf of the city of Cleburne a contract with
the Texas Water and Gas Company, a corporation under the laws of Texas,
for the construction of a complete system of water works within the corporate limits of the city of Cleburne, according to the plans and specifications
submitted by the Texas Water and Gas Company, through M. T. Brown,
vice-president and general manager of said corporation; and it is further
ordained, that the mayor is forthwith required to have lithographed fiftyone bonds for one thousand dollars each, due twenty years after date, and
redeemable at the option of the city at any time after ten years, with forty
coupons attached to each, for thirty-five dollars each, payable in the city
of New York or in the city of Austin, Texas, the said coupons to fall due
the first day of July, 1884, and the first day of January, 1885, and on each
subsequent first day of July aid first day of January for each and every year
up to and including the first day of July, 1905, and, after said bond- are
lithographed, the same to be executed, signed and delivered to the said
Texas Water and Gas Company, upon the said company's complying with
their contract, as therein provided.
And it is further ordained by the city council aforesaid, that all the revenues realized from operation of water works aforesaid, over and above the
expenditures in operating the same be, and the same is hereby, appropriated
and constitute a fund to pay the interest and create a sinking fund for the
final redemption of said bonds as afore provided.
And it is further ordained by the city council aforesaid, that the following
tax shall be annually levied and collected, and the same is hereby appropriated, to pay the interest on water-works bonds hereinbefore authorized to
be issued, one fourth of one per cent on each one hundred dollars' worth of
property, and that this provision shall remain and be in force until the said
water-works bonds are fully paid and satisfied, provided nothing herein
shall prevent the city from remitting the tax or any part thereof heiein
provided for, in the event the net revenue shall realize a fund sufficient
to pay interest and create ten per cent sinking fund on said water-works
bonds.
And it is further ordained that this ordinance takes effect from and after
its passage.
And it is further ordained by the city council aforesaid, that to the above
there shall be levied and collected one tenth of one per cent, under and by
virtue of the power of the city to levy and collect an annual tax to defray
the current expenses of its local government, and the same is hereby set

OCTOBER TERM, 1888;
Statement of the Case.

registered by the comptroller of the State; that the defendant, before the delivery of said bonds, cut off and cancelled
the first coupon thereon, maturing July 1, 1884; that it took
charg6 of the works and contracted a sale of them to another
6orporation, which corporation operated them for a time; that
afterwards the defendant resumed the control of them and
still has possession of them, and uses them for fire protection
and other uses; that the Texas -Water and Gas Company sold
all of the bonds and coupons and delivered them to third parties soon after they were received; that the defendant, by its
city council, on July 3, 1884, adopted a resolution authorizing
and requesting ex-Mayor W. N. Hodge, whose name had been
engraved on the coupons attached to the 51 bonds, to sign the
bonds as and upon the date January 1, 1884, when he was
actually the mayor of the city, and that said bonds be signed
by W. H. Graves, who was the secretary of the defendant on
January 1, 1884, as well as on July 3, 1884. The defendant
proved that W. N. Hodge, who signed the bonds, ceased to
be mayor in April, 1884; that Odell became then the mayor;
that the bonds were signed July, 3, 1884; and that the city
council authorized Hodge, who was then a private citizen, to
sign the bonds on that day.
It was also proved that M ayor Odell did not furnish a
statement of the valuation of property to the comptroller,
nor forward to him the 51 bonds for registration, and refused
to sign more than 40 of said bonds; and that the defendant
was using and operating the water works, and had been for
over 20 months.
Articles 420 to 424, of the Revised Statutes of Texas, in
apart and appropriated to the payment of the interest and the sinking fund
of the bonds herein provided for.
Provided, that this section of this ordinance shall be inoperative for such
year or years as it may be found that the tax and revenue heretofore provided for and set apart shall be sufficient-to pay the interest and sinking
fund as provided.
Passed September 13th, 1883.
Approved September 13, 1883.
W. N. HODGE, 11ayor.
(Signed)
Attest: W. H. GRAVES, Secretary.

COLER v. CLEBURNE.
Statement of the Case.

force at the time of the issue of these bonds, (Rev. Stat. of
1819, title 17, c. 4, p. 72,) were as follows:
"Art. 420." The city council shall have power "to appropriate so much of the revenues of the city, emanating from
whatever -source, for the purpose of retiring and discharging
the accrued indebtedness of the city, and for the purpose of
improving the public markets and streets erecting and conducting city hospitals, city hall, water works, and so forth, as
they may from time to time deem expedient; and in furtherance of these objects they shall have power to borrow money
upon the credit of the city, and issue coupon bonds of the
city therefor, in such sum or sums as they may deem expedient, to bear interest not exceeding ten per cent per annum,
payable semi-annually at such place as may be fixed by city
ordinance: Provided, That the aggregate amount of bonds
issued by the city council shall, at no time, exceed six per
cent of the value of the property within said city, subject
to ad valorem tax.
"Art. 421. All bonds shall specify for what purpose they
were issued, and shall not be invalid if sold for less than
their par value; and when any bonds are issued by the city
a fund shall be provided to pay the interest and create a
sinking fund to redeem the bonds, which fund shall not be
diverted nor drawn upon for any other purpose, and the city
treasurer shall honor no drafts on said fund except to pay interest upon, or redeem the bonds for which it was provided.
"Arxt. 422. Said bonds shall be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the secretary, and payable at such places and
at such times as may be fixed by ordinance of the city council,
not less than ten nor more than fifty years.
"Art. 423. It shall be the duty of the mayor, whenever any
bond or bonds are issued, to forward the same to the comptroller of public accounts of the State, whose duty it shall be to
register said bond or bonds in a book kept for that purpose,
and to indorse on each bond so registered his certificate of
registration, and to give, at the request of the mayor, his
certificate certifying to the amount of bonds so registered in
his office up to date.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"Art. 424. That it shall be the duty of the mayor, at the
time of forwarding any of said bonds for registration, to furnish the comptroller with a statement of the value of all
taxable property, real and personal, in the city; also, with a
statement of the amount of tax levied for the payment of
interest and to create a sinking fund. It is hereby made the
duty of the comptroller to see that a tax is levied and collected by the city sufficient to pay the interest semi-annually
on all bonds issued, and to create a sinking fund sufficient
to pay the said bonds at maturity, and that said sinking fund
is invested in good interest-bearing securities."
It is assigned for error, that the Circuit Court erred in
overruling the plaintiff's demurrer to the plea of non est facturn, because that plea failed to exclude the idea that the
defendant, or the law, had authorized the person who actually
signed the bonds and coupons to do so.
fr. F. S. Herndon for plaintiff in error.
1Plaintiff being a bona fide.holder was not required to look
beyond the recitals in the bond and the legislative enactments
giving power to issue them.
If at the date of the bond it was authorized by law and if it
appears to have been properly issued in accordance with the
enabling acts, he must recover, though there may have been
irregularity and even fraud or misconduct on the part of the
agents who acted for the city in uttering them. The bonds
bear date January 1, 1884. At that time W. N. Hodge was
the mayor of this city, and his signature appears upon the
bonds and on the coupons. This is the only ground of irregu-larity and is the basis of plea of non estfactum. Weyauwega
v. Ayling, 99 U. S.112; Walnut v. Made, 103 U. S. 683;
East .incoln, v. Davenport, 94 U. S. 801; Clay County v.
Society for Savings, 104 U. S. 579; County of 3oultrie v.
Savings Bank, 92 U. S. 631; .2'auvoo v. Ritter, 97 U. S. 389.
The ordinance adopted by defendant city, September 13,
1883, became a part of the contract and was the authority to
the then mayor, W. N. Hodge, and the secretary, to draft and

COLaER v. OLEBURNE.
Opinion of the Court.

sign the bonds, ready for delivery, before January 1, 1884.
The bonds and coupons having been signed in accordance with
said ordinance, the innocent purchaser was not required to
look beyond this, and the defendant city having uttered the
bond thus required is estopped from denying its regularity and
validity. The registration of the bonds by the comptroller
was a judicial act, based upon a determination of the value of
the taxable property, and the status of the bonded debt. The
indorsement of this registration binds the municipality as
against an innocent purchaser.
Such power having been exercised and the bond registered,
the innocent purchaser may rely upon such judicial decision
in favor of the regularity and validity of the bond. Arts. 323
and 424, Revised Statutes of Texas; Sherman County v.
Simons, 109 U. S. 735; Anderson County v. Beall, 113 U. S.
227; Town o, Colorna v. Eaves, 92 -U. S. 484; Commissioners
v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104; Commissioners v. ยฃ7ark, 94 U. S.
278.
.M2r. James IF. Brown for defendant in error.
MR. JusTcC, BLATcimoRD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Article 422 of the statute provides that the bonds shall be
signed by the mayor. This clearly means that they shall
be signed by the person who is mayor of the city when they
are signed, and not by any other person. The legislature having declared who shall sign them, it was not open to the city
council to provide that they should be signed by some other
person. Article 423 of the statute provides that it shall be
the duty of the mayor, whenever any bonds are issued, to
forward them to the comptroller of public accounts of the
State, for registry. They could not be issued until they were
properly signed by a person who was the mayor at the time
they were signed, and the comptroller could receive them lawfully for registry only from such mayor. So, also, by article
424, it is made the duty of the same mayor, and not that of

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

any other person, at the time of forwarding the bonds to the
comptroller for registration, to furnish him with the statement
specified in that article. No other person than such mayor
could furnish the comptroller with such statement.
The complete answer to the suggestion that the plea does
not negative the idea that the bonds may have been signed
by a person authorized by the defendant to sign them, is that,
in view of the statute, the defendant had no power to authorize any other person to sign them than the person who was
mayor at the time they were signed. The answer to the suggestion that the plea does not negative the idea that they
may have been signed by a person authorized by law to sign
them, is, that, in view of the provisions of the statutes of Texas
referred to, and of the allegations of the plea, it was for the
plaintiff to aver or show, in reply to the plea, that the person
who signed them, or some other person than the person
who was mayor at the time they were signed, was authorized
by law to sign them.
It is contended for the plaintiff, that as Hodge, who signed
the bonds as mayor, was the mayor on January 1, 1884, the
date of the bonds, and the plaintiff was an innocent purchaser
of them for value, he was not bound to look beyond the bonds
themselves, and the enabling acts authorizing their issue, and
that, if there was lawful authority to issue them and the city
appeared to have acted upon that authority, he was not obliged
to inquire further, no matter what irregularity characterized
the acts of the officers who issued them on behalf of the city;
that the face of the bonds referred hin to article 420 of the
statutes, and to the ordinance of September 13, 1883; that an
examination of the statute and the ordinance would show authority to issue the bonds; that the records of the city would
show that the persons who signed the bonds were the mayor
and the secretary of the city on the 1st of January, 1884, the
date of the bonds; that the indorsement on each bond would
show that it had been registered by the comptroller; and that
he had a right to presume that the bonds had been forwarded
to the comptroller by the, mayor, as provided by the statute,
or otherwise the comptroller would not have registered them.

C6LER v. CLEBURNE.
Opinion of the Court.

But we have always held that even bona fde purchasers of
municipal bonds must take the risk of the official character
of those who execute them. An examination of the records
of the city in regard to the issuing of the bonds would have
disclosed the fact that the bonds had not been signed and
issued under the ordinance of September 13, 1883, until July
3, 1881, that W. N. Hodge was not mayor on that day; and
that the person who then signed the bonds as mayor was a
private citizen.
In Antony v. Cotnty of Jas
1 er, 101 U. S. 693, municipal
bonds were signed and issued in October, 1872, on a subscription made in Mlarch, 1872, to the stock of a railroad company,
and bore date the day of the subscription. The presiding
justice who signed the bonds did not become such until
October, 1872. Thus the person who was in office when the
bonds were actually signed, signed them, but they were antedated to a day when he was not in office. In the present
case, the bonds were not signed by an officer who was in
office when they were signed, but by a person who was in
office on the antedated day on which they bore date. In the
Jasper County case there was a false date inserted in the
bonds in order to avoid the effect of a registration act which
took effect between the antedated date and the actual date
of signing. In the present case, there was a false signature.
But the principle declared in the Jasper County case is
equally applicable to the present case. It was there said by
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the judgment of the court, (p.
698 :) "The public cane act only through its authorized agents,
and it is not bound until all who are to participate in what
is to be done have performed their respective duties. The
authority of a public agent depends on the law as it is when
he acts. He has only such powers as are specifically granted;
and he cannot bind his principal under powers that have been
taken away, by simply antedating his contracts. Under such
circumstances, a false date is equivalent to a false signature;
and the public, in the absence of any ratification of its own,
is no more estopped by the one than it would be by the other.
After the power of an agent of a private person has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

revoked, he cannot bind his principal by simply dating back
what he does. A retiring partner, after due notice of dissolution, cannot charge his firm for the payment of a negotiable
promissory note, even in the hands of an innocent holder, by
giving it a date within the period of the existence of the partnership. Antedating, under such circumstances, partakes of
the character of a forgery, and is always open to inquiry,
no matter who relies on it. The question is one of the authority of him who attempts to bind another. Every person
who deals with or through an agent assumes all the risks of
a lack of authority in the agent to do what he does. Negotiable paper is no more protected against this inquiry than
any other. In Bayley v. Taber, 5 Mass. 286, it was held that
when a statute provided that promissory notes of a certain
kind, made or issued after a certain day, should be utterly
void, evidence was admissible on behalf of the makers to
prove that the notes were issued after that day, although they
bore a previous date. . . . Purchasers of municipal securities must always take the risk of the genuineness of the official
signatures of those who execute the paper they buy. This
includes, not only the genuineness of the signature itself but
the official character of him wh 9 makes it."
This ruling has been since followed. In Bissell v. Spring
Talley Township, 110 IT. S. 162, where bonds were issued by
a township in payment of a subscription to railway stock,
under a statute which made the signature of a particular
officer essential, it was held, that without the signature of that
orncer they were not the bonds of the township, and that the
municipality was not estopped from disputing their validity
by reason of recitals in the bond, setting forth the provisions
of the statute, and a compliance with them. The same principle is recognized in Northern Bank v. Porter Township, 110
U. S. 608, 618, 619, and Merchants' Bank v. Bergen County,
115 U. S. 384, 390.
The case of Weyauwega v. Ayling, 99 U. S. 112, is cited
for the plaintiff. In that case the bonds of a town bore date
June 1, and were signed by A as chairman of the board of
supervisors, and by B as town clerk, and were delivered by

COLER v. CLEBURNE.

175

Opinion of the Court.

A to a railroad company. When sued on the coupons by a
bona jide purchaser of the bonds for value before maturity,
the 'town pleaded that the bonds were not in fact signed by
B until July 13, at which date he had ceased to be town
clerk, and his successor was in office. It was held, Chief
Justice Waite delivering the opinion of the court, that tfie town
was estopped from denying the date of the bonds, because, in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, it must be assumed
that the bonds were delivered to the company by A with the
assent of the then town clerk.
In Anthony v. County of Jasperthe court distinguished that
case from lFeyauwegav. Ayling, and said that in the latter case
it held that "the town was estopped from proving that the
bonds were actually signed by a former clerk after he went
out of office, because the clerk in office adopted the signature
as his own when he united with the chairman in delivering
the bonds to the railroad company," while in the former case
the bonds were not complete in form when they were issued,
and it was only by a false date that they were apparently
so. In the present case, it appears affirmatively by the bill
of exceptions that the person who was mayor of the city at
the time the bonds were signed took no part in signing, delivering or issuing them; that they were not complete in form
whien they were issued, because they were not signed by the
then mayor; and that it was only by a false date that they
were then apparently complete in form. Hence, the present
case is not like Weyauwega v. Ayling, but is like Anthony v.
County of Jasper.
This case is analogous to that of Amy v. City of Watertown,
No. 1, 130 U. S. 301, where the statute required process to be
served on the city by serving it on the mayor, and it was
not so served, and it was held that there could be no substituted service, and no legal service without service on the
mayor.
Regarding these views as decisive of this case we forbear
discussing other questions on which it is maintained that the
ruling of the Circuit Court was correct.
Judgment crffirmed.

