246"

OCTOBER TER-,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

MORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 234. Argued March 29, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

A contract between A, a subscriber to the stock of a proposed incorporated
company, and B, another subscriber to the same, made without the
knowledge of the remaining subscribers, by which A agrees to purchase
the stock of B at the price paid for it, if at a specified time B elects to
sell it, is not contrary to public policy, and can be enforced against A if
made fairly and honestly, and if untainted with actual fraud.

THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought in the court below
by J. Pierpont Morgan, a citizen of the State of New York,
against Thomas Struthers and one Thomas S. Blair, citizens of
Pennsylvania, to recover the sum of $26,282.19, with interest,
on a certain contract in writing, more particularly described
hereafter. The defendant Blair not having been served'with
process the case proceeded against Struthers alone.
The material facts in the case were substantially as follows:
In the year 1873, Thomas Struthers, Thomas S. Blair and
Morrison Foster were the owners of certain patents for the
manufacture of iron and steel, and also of certain real estate
and works erected thereon, to be used for such manufacture,
situatf in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. They then procured an
incorporation under the laws of the State of New York, in the
name of the "Blair Iron and Steel Company," with a capital
of $2,500,000, divided into 25,000 shares of $100 each, the stock
being paid up in full by a transfer to the company of the
patents and the works at Pittsburgh. The entire amount of
the capital stock was issued to the incorporators on or about
April 12, 1873. With a view of raising a working capital,
Blair, Struthers and Foster had issued the following prospectus:
"NEw

YoRx, January 20, 1873.

"The capital stock of the Blair Iron and Steel Company is
25,000 shares, of $100 eachl, $2,500,000. This capital has been

MORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
Statement of the Case.

paid up by the transfer of the patents for the Blair process
and the works at Glenwood, Twenty-third Ward of Pittsburgh, Pa., to the company, (the deed for the Glenwood property to be made as soon as an empowering act can be obtained
from the Pennsylvania legislature, which we have bound ourselves to procure,) and the whole stock of said company issued
to us in payment therefor. We have agreed to place in the
hands of General A. S. Diven, as trustee, 9000 shares of this
stock, to be used as working capital for the company, subject
to the order of the board of trustees of said company, except
$50,000 of the proceeds thereof first to be paid to us by said
trustee. The trustees of the company have, with our consent,
ordered a sale of 6000 of said shares, for the purpose of raising
a present working capital, and paying said $50,000, the minimum price to be $50 per share; and said trustee, with the
approbation of the board of trustees, now offers said 6000
shares at said minimum price of $50 per share, to be paid for
as follows, viz.: one third part thereof as soon as the whole
6000 shares shall be subscribed for, and the remainder in such
instalments as the board of trustees may call for the same for
the purposes of the business, the certificates to be delivered
when the whole shall be paid.

"By his

"THo-.S S. BTA.
"T. STRUTHERS.
"MolisoN FosTER.
attorney T. STRurHERS."

"'We, the undersigned, hereby subscribe to the number of
shares of the above six thousand shares set opposite to our
names, respectively, to be paid for according to the terms
above set forth; but this subscription not to be binding until
the whole six thousand shares shall have been reliably subscribed."
A number of persons subscribed to this paper without any
other condition, but Morgan, the plaintiff, demanded and obtained from the promoters of the enterprise a further stipulation or agreement, the existence of which was not made
known to others who signed the original paper, some before
and some after Morgan, and which additional stipulation was
as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"Whereas J. Pierpont Mforgan has purchased four hundred
shares of the stock of the Blair Iron and Steel Company, at
the price of fifty dollars per share, and sold by A. S. Diven,
trustee of said company: Now we, the undersigned, in consideration of one dollar to us in hand paid, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, do hereby agree that if, at the end of
one year from this date, said J. Pierpont Morgan shall desire
to sell the said shares at the price paid for the same by him,
we will purchase the same at that price, and pay to him the
amount paid by him on the same, with interest at the rate of
seven per cent per annum.
"THos. S. BLAIR.
"T. STRUTHERS.
"New York, April 4, 1873."
At the end of the year the agTeement of purchase was renewed for another year, and at the expiration of that year it
was again renewed, the following agreement being entered
into: "NEW YoRK, MarekA 22, 1875.
"In consideration of the waiver by J. Pierpont Morgan of
the right of election to sell to us the four hundred shares of
stock in the Blair Iron and Steel Company, (subscribed and
paid for by him,) as he was entitled to do by agreement with
us in 1873, renewed and extended, by agreement of 1874, to
April 4, 1875, we do hereby agree that his right to do so shall
be extended for another year, viz., to April 4, 1876. If he
shall at that time elect to sell to us the four hundred shares so
subscribed and held by him, we will receive and pay for the
same the amount paid by him therefor, with interest at the
rate of seven per cent per year from the date of the payment
by him of the respective instalments thereon; and, as collateral security for the performance by us of this our agreement,
we have placed in the hands of Joseph W. Drexel, Esq., four
hundred shares of the stock of the said Blair Iron and Steel
Company, to be held by him in trust for that purpose.
"T.

STRUTHERS.

"T.S. BL i."

MORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

On the 20th of March, 1876, Morgan notified Blair and
Struthers that he desired to avail himself of the terms of the
agreement entered into between them, and on the 4th of April
of that year tendered them the stock referred to in the agreement.
The defendants having failed and refused to comply with
the terms of the contract of repurchase, Morgan, on the 1st
of March, 1882, brought this action, averring in his declaration
the foregoing facts. The defendant in his answer admitted the
maing of the contract declared upon, and all the facts alleged
by the plaintiff in support of his claim; but set up, by way of
defence, two propositions, either of which he claimed was sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's case, viz.: First. The contract sued on was invalid, and against public
policy, because made secretly with one of a number of persons
who had subscribed together, upon the same express terms and
conditions, for stock in a manufacturing corporation, whereby
the plaintiff had sought to procure to himself an advantage
withheld from the other subscribers; and
Second. The defendant is not precluded from setting up the
invalidity of such contract because he was a party to it.
The case was tried by a jury, which, under instructions from
the court, found in favor of the defendant; and judgment was
rendered accordingly. To reverse that judgment this writ of
error is prosecuted.
Ab'. John Dalzezl for plaintiff in error.
-Y. George Shiras,J-., (with whom were 211'. R?. Brown and
.Xr. TV. .. Lindsey on the brief,) for defendant in error.
I. The contract sued on was invalid, because made secretly
with one of a number of persons who had subscribed together,
upon the same express terms and conditions, for stock in a
manufacturing corporation, and whereby the plaintiff had
sought to secure to himself an advantage withheld from the
other subscribers. Jaekman v. XJitchell, 13 Yes. 581; -Ex
.parte Sadler and Jackson, 15 Ves. 52; Leicester v. Rose,
4 East, 372; Colernanv. laller,3 Younge & Jer. 212; TFhite

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
. Opinion of the Court.

Mountain Railroad Co. v. -astman, 34 1N. H. 124; Miller v.
Hanover Junction Railroad, 81 Penn. St. 95; Robinson v.
Pittsburgh &OConnelleville Railroad, 32 Penn. St. 334; . C.
Ti2 Am. Dec. '92; 3felvim v. Lamar Iron Co., 80 Illinois, 446;
Blodgett v. .XJorrill,20 Vermont, 509; Connecticut River Railroad v. Bailey, 24: Vermont, 465; S. C. 58 Am. iDec. 181;
Hodge v. Twitchell, 33 Minnesota, 389; Sternburg v. Bowman,
103 Mass. 325; Pay v. Pay, 121 Mass. 561; Lee v. Sellers,
812 Penn. St. 473; Getty v. .Devlin, 54: N. Y. 403; S. C. 70
1. Y. 504. Jleyer v. Blair, 109 N. Y. 600, cited and relied
on by plaintiff in error, is not binding upon this court.
II. The defendant was not precluded from setting up the
invalidity of the contract because he was a party to it.
Mn . JusTIcE LAY-Am, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Several exceptions were taken during the progress of the
trial, to the rulings of the court in excluding evidence offered
by the plaintiff, to its refusal to give instructions requested by
the plaintiff, and to its general charge to the jury, which are
embodied in twelve assignments of error. It is not necessary
to discuss them seriatim, as the main contention relates to the
correctness of the instructions given by the Circuit Court to
the jury. In order to determine the principle on which the
instructions rest, it will be useful to ascertain the points incidentally connected with the case about which there is no dispute.
First. It is conceded, and the court so charged the jury,
correctly, as we think, that the contract made by Morgan with
Struthers touching the repurchase of the stock, standing by
itself, was a perfectly fair and honest one, in which there was
no vice inherent that would relieve the person making it from
its obligation. If, therefore, its validity or binding force is
impaired, it must be because of its extrinsic effect by reason of
the relations of the parties to the other stockholders in the
corporation.
It is also conceded that, as to these stockholders, no actual

MORGAI

v. STRUTHERS.

Opinion of the Court.

fraud or deceit was practised in the making of the contract
sued upon. This is virtually the ground upon which the court
refused to admit evidence offered by the plaintiff for the
avowed purpose of showing the good faith of the transaction
as to the other subscribers. It said:
"It is not necessary for the defendants, to sustain their defence, to show actual fraud. If the tendency of such things
is to operate as a fraud upon others, that is the basis of the
rule."
It is also a fact, undenied and undeniable, that the plaintiff
strictly complied with all the terms and stipulations expressed
in the prospectus, and in the contract of subscription, by paying into the treasury of the corporation the entire amount of
his subscription.
It should also be considered as*conceded- for there is nothing in the pleadings, nor in the evidence, nor in any of the
rulings of the court, nor in the argument of counsel, to the
contrary-that he did not enter into any secret agreement
with the corporation or any other person that he should not
be required to pay the amount he had subscribed. And,
finally, the court more than once gives strong intimation that
there is no reason in equity, justice, or fair dealing, why the
defendant should not be made to comply with his obligation.
On the other hand, it is conceded that the contract sued on
was a collateral, optional contract, made at the time of plaintiff's subscription, which constituted the inducement to it, and
was not made known to all the other subscribers to stock.
The only question, then, presented for our consideration is,
whether the collateral contract, perfectly fair and honest in
itself, and untainted with any actual fraud upon any person,
entered into by a subscriber of stock with other subscribers,
to the effect that they will purchase the same, and pay to him
the amount paid by him, if at a time specified he chooses to sell
the same, is contrary to public policy, and cannot be enforced
against the party to it. Upon this question the view of the
court below is stated very explicitly. It says:
"If others of the subscribers to the stock were not informed
of the fact that plaintiff had obtained said agreement as a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

dition or part of his agreement to subscribe for the said stock,
and that the existence of such accompanying agreement was
not made known to others of said common subscribers, this

said agreement was in the eye of the law a fraud upon the
other subscribers who did not receive and were not informed
of the existence of such agreement, and was contrary to the
policy of the law, and the plaintiff cannot recover."
Again, in his general charge he repeats: "Whatever may
be our own views as to the honesty of such an attempt to
defeat the enforcement of an honest contract, that is a consideration which you or I have nothing to do with. If you
find that the beneficial arrangement set up and sought to be
enforced in this suit was not made known to all the subscribers
to that stock, and they were not afforded an opportunity to
avail themselves of like security, that arrangement was void,
and cannot be enforced."
We cannot concur in this conclusion. We are not prepared
to affirm that there is a public policy which operates such a
restraint upon the transfer of stock in a corporation as to render the contract in question, conceded to be valid and fair in
itself, fraudulent as to the co-subscribers with the plaintiff for
the 6000 shares sold by the company and to render it invalid
against the party to it, who, it is admitted, has no equity or
justice in his favor.
Nor do we assent to the proposition upon which this conclusion rests. That proposition is, that when a man purchases
or subscribes to shares of stock in an incorporated joint stock
company, there is upon him, in addition to the express terms
of the subscription contract, an implied obligation, incident to
the common enterprise, which restrains him from making any
engagement with other individuals to secure his own stock
against risk, unless the other subscribers are informed of it
and put upon an equal footing as to such security.
One essential feature of an incorporated joint stock company is the right of each stockholder, without restraint, to sell
or transfer his shares at pleasure. Thompson, Liability of
Stockholders, § 210, and cases there cited. So well established
is this right that a by-law of a bank putting restrictions upon

MORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the transferability of stock in the hands of its members has
been held void as being in restraint of trade. 3foore v. Ban,.
of Comnmerce, 52 Missouri, 377. Even where the charter gives
the corporation the power to regulate transfer of sto6ks, it has
been held that this power does not include the authority to
restrain transfers. Coteau Spring Co. v. Harris,20 Missouri,
38S2, citing 10 Mass. 476, and numerous other authorities. ,
Counsel for defendant urges that notwithstanding this right
to make an absolute sale of his stock belongs to each subscriber, the policy of the law forbids one of them, whose act
of subscription may be held out as an inducement for others
to subscribe, from making a contract of future sale with a
view to secure his investment; and renders such a contract
void, because many co-stockholders "may have been chiefly
inducedoto subscribe by a knowledge that so prominent and
successful an operator was willing to risk his money in such
an adventure; and who, had they been told that he had
exacted a private security or guaranty Wbich availed to give
him the benefit of both the experiment in business and of getting back his money with interest, if it did not succeed, would
assuredly either have refused to subscribe or have demanded a
similar guaranty. Moreover, they had a right to suppose that
the new firm was to have the countenance of Mr. Morgan and
probably his assistance in the future." This is a palpable misconception of the nature of the transaction. There was nothin-inthe prospectus, or in the subscription contract, or in the
nature of the enterprise, to justify such a presumption or expectation on the part of the other stock subscribers. It is just
in this respect, especially, that an incorporated joint stock
company differs from an ordinary co-partnership. In the
latter, the individual members of the firm are presumed to,
and in general actually do, contribute to the common enterprise, not only their several shares of partnership capital, but
also their individual experience, skill or credit, no member
having the right to sell out his interest or to retire from the
firm without the consent of the co-partners; and 'if he does
either, the act amounts to a dissolution of the partnership.
Parsons on Partnership, § 171. The very reverse, as we have

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

said, is the case of a joint stock corporation, in which each
stockholder, whether by purchase or original subscription, has
the right, unless restrained by the charter or articles of association, to sell and transfer his shares, and, by transferring
them, introduce others in their stead.
It also urged that "the other subscribers had a right to presume that Mr. Morgan went into the common enterprise upon
the same terms with themselves." This proposition is true so
far as those terms are prescribed in the charter, the prospectus,
and the contract of subscription; but it is also true that each
of those stockholders had the equal right to sell, or agree to
sell, that stock whenever and to whomsoever he chose, such
stock being personal property, and subject to any disposal he
might choose to make of it; and that this right belonged none
the less to Morgan, on account of his prominence and known
skill as an operator, than it did to any other member of the
corporation.
We have read with care all the authorities cited by counsel
for defendant in error to support the claim that the contract
in question is, in the eye of the law, fraudulent and void.
Those which relate to contracts connected with subscriptions
of stock are simply illustrative, in different forms, of a doctrine
settled in a great number and variety of decisions, that a corporation has no legal capacity to release an original subscriber
to its capital stock from payment of it, in whole or in any
part; and that any arrangement with him by which the company, its creditors, or stockholders, shall lose any part of that
subscription, is ultra vires and a fraud upon creditors and the
co-subscribers. Burke v. Smith, 16 Wall. 390, 395; Bedford
RailroadCo. v. Bowser, 48 Penn. St. 29; Green's Brice's Ultra
Yires. This doctrine rests upon the principle that the stock
subscribed, both paid and unpaid, is the capital of the company, and its means of carrying out the object for which it was
chartered and organized. All these cases fall within this principle. In each of them the agreement declared void, had it
been carried out, would have diminished the common fund,
which is a trust fund for the benefit of the general creditors of
the corporation, the stockholders, and all others having an

M1ORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

interest therein, and would have been violative of the terms
upon which the subscriptions had been expressly made, and
under which the trust originated. The corporation would
have been damaged in its capital by the loss of the subscriptions, and the co-subscribers would have been damaged by the
lessening of their common trust fund. As we have seen, no
feature of damage to the corporation, actual. fraud, or violation of contract, exists in this case. The contract sued on, if
specifically carried out, would have simply resulted in what
all agree lay within the power of each subscriber at the time
of making his subscription -a transfer of his stock and the
introduction of other stockholders in his stead.
Counsel for defendant has cited cases of composition between an insolvent debtor and his creditors, where one creditor
has secured, by a secret arrangement, either with the insolvent or some other person, terms more favorable to himself
than the composition greement provided for all of the other
creditors joining therein. In the English cases the doctrine is
carried to the fullest extent, that such secret arrangements are
utterly void, even as against the party with whom the arrangement was made. The American decisions, whilst perhaps not going to the extent of the English decisions, clearly
assert the illegality of such arrangement. 1 Story Eq. Jur.
§§ 378, 379; Thite v. _ffntz, 107 N. Y. 518. But we think
that the analogy between the cases of composition agreements
and those of stock subscriptions is remote, and that the decisions as to the former are not applicable to this case.
The relations of composition creditors, either to the insolvent's estate or to each other, are widely different from
those which stock subscribers bear to the corporation and
their co-subscribers. Upon the failure or insolvency of a
debtor, his creditors stand together in a common relation of
claims, proportionate to their amount and grade, upon an interest in his (the insolvent's) estate. "The purport," says
Mr. Justice Story, "of a composition or trust deed, in cases
of insolvency, usually is, that the property of the debtor shall
be assigned to trustees, and shall be collected and distributed
by them among the creditors, according to the order and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

terms prescribed in the deed itself. And, in consideration of
the assignment, the creditors, who become parties, generally
agree to release all their debts beyond what the funds will
satisfy." 1 Story Eq. Jur. § 378. It is clear that any secret
bargain by which one of these creditors obtains more than
the composition deed gives, and more than he agrees under it
to take, violates the equality which is the basis of the deed of
settlement, and operates a gross fraud upon the creditors -a
fraud which the law, in its policy of precaution rather than
by mere remedial justice, suppresses by depriving the parties
of the fruit of their clandestine arrangements.
It is not necessary to restate the widely different basis of
'the relation of stock subscribers to a joint stock corporation
and to each other, where each subscriber acts for himself, in
the act of subscription, with the unrestricted right, in the
exercise of vigilance and foresight, to make any arrangement
for the security of his shares, provided he does not lessen the
amount of his subscription, which constitutes part of the trust
fund in which all the subscribers have an equal interest.
We think this case perfectly clear on principle. We cite,
however, as persuasive authority in support of our conclusion,
the decision in .ileye2-v. Blair, 109 N. Y. 600, 607, in which
a contract identical in every material particular with the one
we are considering, made between Blair and Struthers and
]Aleyer, a subscriber to the 6000 shares of stock, was considered
by the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, and held
valid and binding upon the parties to it. In that case the
court says:
"The present case is not, we think, within the principle
of the stock-subscription cases, or the cases of composition, to
which reference has been made. The main object of the company in offering the stock for sale was to secure ' working capital,'.
as is shown by the prospectus. This object was known to the
subscribers. If the subscription of the plaintiff was a pretence
merely, or if the subscription had been accompanied by a secret
agreement between the plaintiff and the company that he
should be relieved from the subscription, or by which the terms
of the purchase were materially changed to the disadvantage

MORGAN v. STRUTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the company, and for the advantage of the plaintiff, there
might be ground for applying the rule declared in the subscription cases, and declaring the transaction to be a fraud
on the other subscribers.

.

.

But there was no agree-

ment between the company and the plaintiff, secret or otherwise, direct or indirect, except the agreement contained on
the face of his subscription. The plaintiff, by his subscription,
became bound to the company to take the shares subscribed
for, and this agreement has never been discharged, or in any
way impaired. The plaintiff remained bound by his subscription, notwithstanding the agreement with the defendants, as
fully and completely as though the agreement with the defendants had never been made. Nothing has occurred to
change, qualify or limit his obligation to the company. The
company sold the shares to secure ' working capital.'
The defendants were interested in setting the company afoot.
They were the principal holders of its stock.

.

.

.

They

sought out the plaintiff. On his declining at first to subscribe
to the stock of the company, they offered him the inducement
that they would take the stock off his hands within a year, at
cost price, if he desired it. It appears that the same inducement was offered to other subscribers, but not to all. We
think there was nothing illegal in the arrangement."
The conclusions to which we have come on the questions
discussed dispense with any consideration of the other point
presented by the plaintiff in error, viz.: that the defendant
should be estopped from setting up the invalidity of the contract sued on because he is a party to it. For, as we have
found the contract valid and legal, the question of estoppel does
not arise.
For the foregoing reasons,
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
remanded, with instructions to grant a new trial and to
take such further poceedings as shall be cbnsistent with
this opinion.
VOL. CXx=X-17

