OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

hereinbefore ordered to be paid by the complainant the amount
of such incumbrances and notes so produced and cancelled or
discharged."
Then follows a decree involving title to sundry tracts of
land in Iowa, covering six pages of the record in descriptions.
This decree must be construed as an entirety. Taken as a
whole, it shows that it was not to go into effect until the
period of ninety days had expired from the time of its rendition. It first provides that the sum of $14,645.32 shall be
paid by the complainant to the administratrix of Jeremiah
Folsom, deceased, and that execution shall issue therefor. It
then proceeds to provide that the complainant shall have
ninety days from the date of the decree in which to satisfy
the court that the sum of $14,081.77, or any part thereof, bad
been applied by Simeon Folsom for the purchase of certain
incumbrances and notes therein specified, and had inured, to
the benefit of the said Jeremiah Folsom, or his estate, then
such amount "shall be oredited on the amount hereinbefore
ordered to be paid by the complainant."
That amount was the $14,645.32 above stated. It is manifest that this could not be done if the decree took effect from
its date, for its payment might have been coerced by. the
issuing of an execution, before the expiration of the ninety
days.
PER cuxiui: This case is dismissed for want of juisdiction.

PACIFIC EXPRESS 00. v. MALIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNIITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1203. Submitted November 19, 1888. -Decided

November 26, 1888.

When the defendant below sues out the writ of error, the matter in dispute
here is the judgment rendered against him.
In a case which had been dismissed for want of jurisdiction, no opposition

PACIFIC EXPRESS CO. v.

IALIN.

Opinion of the Court.
having been made thereto, the court allowed a mandate, notwithstanding
notice of the motion for the mandate had not been given.

MOTION TO DISCUSS

for want of jurisdiction.

The defendant in error was plaintiff below, and brought
his action at law against the plaintiff in error in the District
Court of Mitchell County, Texas, for an injury done to his
property by the defendant in error, and claimed damages in
the sum of $5850. An answer was filed by the express company. On the 6th January, 1887, the case was removed on
the defendant's petition to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas, and there entered as
No. 24:. Certain proceedings were had in that court, and the
case being at issue was tried before a jury on the 12th April,
1888, who rendered a verdict for plaintiff for $3000. Judgment was entered on this verdict. The plaintiff, at the suggestion of the court, entered on it a remittitur of $350, thus
reducing the judgment from $3000 to $2650. The writ of
error was sued out by the plaintiff in error to reversb this
judgment.
-Y%. William tHallett Phillipsfor the motion.
No one opposing.
PE.R cuim : This case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.
Mr.Phillips, at a later day, moved the court for the issuance of a mandate, and, as cause therefor, he stated that no
notice of the motion for the mandate had been served on the
opposite party; but that no opposition bad been made to the
dismissal of the case, and, as the dismissal had been made for
want of jurisdiction, there would seem to be no reason why
the mandate should be withheld.
PnnR cuxi&: Sufficient cause has been shown, and the mandate may issue at once.
.Xandate issued.

