CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREMIIE COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
UNITED STATES ,v. TAUBENHEITIER.
UNITED STATES

MONTGOiERY.
M.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 1103,1102,1482.

Argued January 28, 29,185S9.

Decided May 13, 18S9.

The act of March 3, 1887, "to provide for the bringing of suits against the
government of the United States," 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, does not confer
upon the District or Circuit Courts of the United States, or upon the
Court of Claims, jurisdiction in equity to compel the issue and delivery
of a patent for public land.

THESE cases were suits in equity brought against the United
States under the recent act of March 3d, 1887, 24 Stat. 505,
c. 359, extending the jurisdiction of claims against the government to the District and Circuit Courts of the United States.
They were suits for specific performance, seeking to compel
the United States to issue and deliver to the plaintiffs respectively patents for timber land, alleged to have been taken up
and purchased by them under the act for the sale of timber
lands in the States of California, Oregon, etc., passed June 3d,
1878, 20 Stat. 89, c. 151.1 The petitions contained averments
1 The material parts of this statute will be found in the opinion of the
court,post, 15, 16.
VOL. CXXI-1

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of performance of the conditions required by said act, the payment of the price of the lands to the receiver of the land office,
the giving of his certificates and receipts therefor, and the
refusal of the government to issue patents to the petitioners
as entitled thereto. They prayed, in each case, for a decree,
1st, that the petitioner is owner of the land by virtue of the
purchase; and, 2d, that the United States issue and deliver, or
cause to be issued and delivered, in accordance with law, a
patent granting and conveying the land purchased. The
United States by its attorney demurred to the several petitions. The Circuit Court overruled the demurrers and
rendered decrees for the plaintiffs. From these decrees the
present appeals were taken.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard for plaintiff in
error.
.- r. James

. Kelly for Jones, defendant in error.

.Afr. James C. Carter for Jones, defendant in error.
Jurisdiction to hear and determine a claim for a conveyance
(of public land was conferred upon the court below by the act
.of March 3d, 1887, m the plainest terms. No ground is left
for construction or doubt. (1) The claim is upon a contract
with the government of the United States. (2) It is a claim
in respect of which the petitioner would be entitled to redress
against the United States in a court of equity if the United
States were suable. Nothing remained to be done by the purchaser, nor by the government, except the performance by the
latter of the duty, wholly ministerial, of executing and deliv.ering the patent. (3) No claim can be imagined which falls
,more 'completely within the class described in the act over
'whidh jurisdiction to hear and determine is conferred upon the
-courts'therein named.
It would be to no purpose to say that this act should be
strictly construed. As already observed, no case for interpretation is presented; and no rule, even of the most rigid con-

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

struction, would suffice to exclude this claim from the class of
cases over which jurisdiction is conferred.
Whoever undertakes to exclude this claim from the class

defined by the act must start with an assumption as broad as
the following, namely: That the proposition that a court
should be permitted to hear and determine a claim against the
United States for equitable relief, such as the execution of a
conveyance of lands, is of such an extraordinary character,
and so doubtful in point of expediency, that Oongress must be

presumed not to have authorized such action by any general
language, however clearly that language may embrace it, and
that the authority can be held to have been given only when
conferred 'by express language &ecifteally describing such
relief. It is respectfully submitted that such an assumption
would be an error too gross for any indulgence.
On the contrary, the just method of treating this act is to
view it as one calling (if that were at all necessary) for a liberal interpretation.
An obvious distinction should be noticed between declaring
justice and enforcing it. In suits between private persons
both these functions are discharged by the court, but the first
only is its true and proper one. The second is an executive or
administrative office, being the exercise of mere power, and
might well enough be performed by independent officers.
Reasons of convenience have led to the placing of such officers
under the authority of the court. "The judiciary has no
influence over either the sword or the purse; no direction
either of the strength or the wealth of society; and can take
no active resolution whatever. It may truly be said to have
neither force nor will, but merely judgment, and must ultimately depend upon the aid of the executive arm for the efficacious exercise even of its judgments." The Federalist, No.
78 (Hamilton); Story Const., § 1600.
The circumstance that these two functions have, in the
practice of governments, been intrusted to the same hands has
led to the rule, in cases between individuals, that a court will
not assume jurisdiction where it has not the power to enforce
its decrees. The offices of declaring and enforcing justice are

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

thus further tied together, but this is not in consequence of
any inherent difficulty in an independent discharge of the
function of declaring justice.
In the case of the sovereign, whether under democratic
or monarchical rule, justice cannot be enforced against him,
"for who shall command the kin-? " And there is precisely
the same difficulty in commanding the head of a democratic
State. The freedom of his person and action is essential to
the existence of the State. No compulsion can be employed
against him, except to depose him and seat another in his
place. The same reasons go far towards ptecluding the
exercise of force at the instance of a citizen, to compel the
principal officers of State to submit to the compulsion of a
court. The immortal judgment of Marshall in 3rarnuryv.
.W3adison, 1 Cranch, 137, stopped with the declaration that a
writ of mandamus might go against a cabinet officer to compel the performance of a mere ministerial duty imposed by
law.
It follows as a consequence that whenever the citizen seeks
redress for an injury proceeding from the State, the office of
declaring justice must, in general at least, be exercised independently, for the office of enforcing it does not exist. This,
however, furnishes no reason why justice in such cases should
not be ascertained and declared; for we cannot, or should
not, suppose any necessity for enforcing it. To know what
justice requires from the State to one of its citizens is all that
is requisite. That it will be done no doubt should be entertained. The law "presumes that to know of any injury and
to redress it are inseparable in the royal breast." 3 B. Com.
255.
The act under consideration, and indeed, all prior legislation, conferring jurisdiction and power upon the Court of
Claims, are based upon a recognition of the foregoing views.
Nowhere is any attempt made to render the judgments of
that tribunal judicially enforceable. An independent discharge of the function of declaring justice is alone provided
for. Performance of the decree is left to the legislative and
executive departments. To give the judiciary the power of

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

compelling those departments, would destroy their independence and reduce them to subjection, a result wholly at war

with our constitutional system.
It is true that the seventh section of the act of March 3d,
1863, directs that judgments of the Court of Claims "shall
be paid out of any general appropriation made by law, for the
satisfaction of private claims;" and the obligation to make
such payment is imposed upon the Secretary of the Treasury;
but this obligation is imposed upon him by Congress, not by
the court. The court has no authority to adjudge that it
be so paid, still less, any authority to enforce such payment
by compulsory process. The legislation in this respect simply
consists of an appropriation by Congress to pay such claims
as the Court of Claims may allow.
Nor is the decision of this court in the case of Gordon, v.
The United States, 2 Wall. 561, opposed in any degree to this
view. The decision in that case did not proceed upon the
ground that the determination by a tribunal of a controversy,
when it had no power to execute its determination, was not an
exercise of judicial power, but upon the ground that when it
was still left to an executive department to review the determination of the Supreme Court (as the act of 1863 did leave
it), such determination, although an exercise of judicial power,
was not a final one, and, therefore, not of the character which
marks the jurisdiction of this court. See United States v.
.Alire, 6 Wall. 577; United States v. Ylein, 13 Wall. 1 8, 144;
United States v. O' Grady, 22 Wall 64:1, 647.
In the opinion of Mr. Justice Nelson, in the case of United
States v. Alire, supra,an observation is found which may tend
to create misapprehension. The court, in that case, held that
the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction; and in assigning the
reasons, the learned judge said: "We find no provision in any
of the statutes requiring a judgment of this character to be
obeyed or satisfied." But, certainly, this could be no just
ground for the inference that no power was conferred to render such a judgment. For the reasons aheady indicated, no
power could be conferred upon the court, to compel obedience
to or satisfaction of its judgments; nor was it necessary, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

order to render such judgments as complete and effective as
,they can be made, nor in any statute has any attempt been
made to enable the court to enforce any of its judgments,
of whatever description, whether adjudging the petitioner
entitled to a recovery of money or other relief.
The other reason assigned by the learned judge for the
decision, was the true ground upon which the court proceeded, namely, that inasmuch as the statute had made provision, in pursuance of which payment or satisfaction of some
of its judgments might be obtained (not indeed, by process of
the court, but by congressional appropriation), and had made
no such provision for judgments awarding equitable relief, the
inference was justified, that power to render judgments of the
latter description was not intended to be conferred. Nothing
is said concerning the soundness of this inference.
It is unnecessary to argue that injuries proceeding from the
State should be redressed as certainly and promptly as those
inflicted by private persons. Justice is no respecter of persons. Its obligations are universal and absolute. The ancient
maxim that "the king can do no wrong" was never really
effective to defeat justice, except in the case where a wrong
could not be imputed to ministers or officers, and then only
for the purpose of guarding the person of the sovereign.
The government in the transaction in question was exercising no function of sovereignty, but simply engaging in the
ordinary business of selling property, of which it was the
owner. It simply made a contract with one of its citizens.
It cannot do this without consenting to be bound by the ordinary rules which govern the conduct of individuals in such
transactions. Were it necessary for the government to enforce such contract, it could enter the courts and have the
agreement ascertained and declared by judicial methods. To
deny the same privilege to the parry with whom it deals is
a plain denial of justice. How would this comport with the
" nulli negabimus justitiam" of the Great Oharter? "When
a government enters into a contract with an individual, it deposes, as to the matter of the contract, its constitutional authority, and exchanges the character of legislator for that of

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

a moral agent, with the same rights and obligation as an individual." 3 Hamilton's Works, 618.
Nor is the practical recognition of the obligation of the
State to redress the injuries it may inflict on its citizens, a
recent development of civilization. Centuries ago in England
the law had provided a forum and a procedure well calculated
to afford redress in all cases which were likely to arise: The
petition of right (petition de droit)and the plea of right (monstrans de dr'oit) were modes of redress at- common law always
open to the subject, and which could be prosecuted in the court
of chancery on its common law side, or in the Court of Exchequer. 3 Bl. Com. 256. The procedure in such cases has,
by legislation in recent times, been assimilated to that in cases
between subject and subject (23-24: Vic. c. 34); but the jurisdiction was complete before. The seventh section of the act
referred to declared that it shall not be construed as giving to
the subject a remedy against the Crown in cases where none
before existed. Tle Banker's Case, 14: Howell's St. Tr. 1;
Thomas v. The Queen, L. R. 10 Q. B. 31; 8mith v. Ugton, 6
M. & G. 252, note a.
It was, indeed, for a long time the reproach of the government of the United States, and still is, if the contention of the
appellant is well founded, that it furnished its citizens with no
judicial methods by which they could assert just claims against
it, and left them with no other means of redress than supplication to executive or legislative power, neither of these agencies having the time, the knowledge, or the means to prosecute
the inquiries necessary in order to ascertain justice, and too
apt to be moved by caprice or favor.
To support the necessity or propriety of the jurisdiction for
which we are contending by an appeal to prudential considerations seems almost a surrender of the high ground of positive
right upon which the argument more properly rests. Such
considerations, however, would of themselves suffice to sustain
the views for which we are contending.
When courts in which"a citizen can assert his claims against
the government are denied, and Congress entertains his petition
for redress, the nature of the task which has to be performed

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

(if Congress discharges its duty) is not thereby changed. It
is still a judicial function which is to be performed. The facts
must be ascertained, and the law declared. The execution of
this function by Congress is a usurpation defensible only on
the ground that, unless the public duty is thus performed, it
will not be performed at all. It involves all the mischiefs
which usually attend the exercise of usurped powers, superadded to those which always accompany private legislation erroneous conclusions arising from haste and neglect, and the
injustice of caprice, favor or corruption. A right which must
be sought by petition to a legislative body, because there is no
court in which it can be asserted, is but too likely to become
the subject of purchase. It requires the agency, not of a bar,
but of a lobby.
We must add to this catalogue of mischiefs the others not
less flagrant which arise from the neglect of proper legislative
duties. The true business of legislation will never be successfully performed, when the time and talents of the legislators
are devoted to attention to private claims. This latter consideration was undoubtedly the most influential one which led
to the original establishment of the Court of Claims.
Seeing, therefore, that the purely judicial function of ascertaining facts and pronouncing the law thereon is separable and
independent from the office of enforciig justice; that whatever of theoretical or practical difficulty which would arise
from allowing compulsory process is attached only to the
latter function, and not to the former; seeing that the exercise of the former is the plain duty of every civilized State;
that it has been clearly recognized from an early period, and
provision made for it; that our own government was long
under the just reproach of neglect and failure in the performance of this necessary duty; that the practical mischiefs resulting therefrom had become so flagrant as to move Congress
to an endeavor to provide a remedy by establishing the Court
of Claims; and-that the act under consideration is an obvious
effort to enlarge that remedy and make it more effective, we
need no longer delay the conclusion that this act should be
construed, should any occasion for construction be found, not

UNITED STATES v. JONES,
Argument for Defendant in Error.

with rigid parsimony, but with the liberality which is usually
and properly extended to remedial legislation. When Congitess endeavors to perform its duty, and to supply great defects
in administration, and to cure the most crying evils, it is the
duty of courts to second the endeavor. When a new and
beneficial jurisdiction is conferred, the maxim "5oni judicis
est arnphaZre jarisdictionemn" is most applicable. Sedgwick
on Stat. & Con. Law, 359 et seq.
In a celebrated case in the British courts concerning the
extent of the remedial power which could be exercised under
the ancient proceeding of the Petition of Right, the objection
was taken that, although relief could be had in cases of dispute concerning lands or chattels, recoveries of money in cases
ex contractu could not be adjudged. The court, by placing its
decision upon another ground, avoided this objection ; but it
gave a worthy expression to the spirit of exposition in which
such a question should be approached. "We may observe
that there is nothing to secure the crown against committing
the same species of wrong, unconscious and involuntary wrong,
in respect of money, which founds the subject's right to sue
out his petition when committed in respect to lands, or specific
chattels; and there is an unconquerable repugnance to the
suggestion that the door .ought to be closed against all redress
or remedy for such a wrong." Baron de Bode's Case, 8 Q. B.
208, 273. In the light of this rule of interpretation some
objections which the appellants may raise are to be briefly
considered.
(a) It will not, of course, be now insisted that jurisdiction
is not conferred upon the courts named in the act over claims
founded upon equitable considerations. That view was taken
by this court in interpreting the original act establishing the
Court of Claims. Bonner v. United States, 9 Wall. 156. In
the opinion in this case the observation is made in respect to
rights in equity that "Congress wisely reserved to itself the
power to dispose of them." The justice of this observation is
(with deference) not fully perceived. If it be proper that
justice should be ascertained and declared by judicial methods
in respect to legal claims against the government, why is it

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

not equally proper that the same course should be pursued
in respect to equitable claims? Ought not justice to be done
in the one case as well as in the other? Is Congress better
fitted to try a suit in equity than a suit at law? Are the
evils which are likely to flow from the usurpation of judicial
functions by Congress of less magnitude in the case of equitable claims?
But whatever may have been the propriety of such an observation in relation to the original act creating the Court of
Claims, it is certainly not applicable to the legislation under
notice. After the decision above referred to had been made,
Congress. reforms the phraseology of the first section of its
original act, and exhausts the language of extension so as to
make the jurisdiction broad enough to embrace every claim
against the United States which can be made the subject of
judicial cognizance, with the express and sole exception of
pensions. It seems impossible to resist the conclusion that it
was the intent of the later act to remove the objection which
the courts had allowed in respect to the earlier one, and to
make the discharge of governmental duty in this respect coextensive with governmental obligation.
(b) It may be urged that suits in equity frequently require
that several parties be made defendants, and that the act
makes no provision for this. But this objection has no application 'to equitable claims against the government alone, and
it would be difficult, if not impossible, to make provision for
the joining of other defendants in the Court of Claims. It is
but a limited jurisdiction which is conferred upon other tribunals. But this obstacle, in most cases at least, is not of great
magnitude. The courts upon which jurisdiction is conferred
may separately determine what equitable duty the government owes to the party before the court, leaving the rights of
that and other parties, as between themselves, to be determined
by other tribunals. The case in which*some proper defendants
cannot be brought into court is familiar to Courts of Equity,
and it often proceeds in the absence of such defendants.
(6) In a case already referred to (United States v. Alire, 6
Wall. 573) an appeal was taken from a determination of the

'UNITED

STATES v.. JONES.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Court of Claims allowing equitable relief. The court then
possessed such powers only as were bestowed by the acts of
1855 and 1863, and it was held that under those acts no
power was conferred to render other judgments than for money.
It may be urged that under the act of 1887 there is no
express power to render other judgments than for money, and
that the provisions in the act last referred to, relating to interest
on judgments, apparently assume that all judgments are to be
for money, and consequently that it must still be held that the
power of the court is limited to the rendition of judgments of
that character. Although it is not at all necessary, in answer
to this argument, to draw in question the decision in that case,
yet it may be suggested whether the rule of construction
adopted was not somewhat too rigid. The act of 1863 confirmed and enlarged the jurisdiction created by the act of
1855; dnd that described a certain class of claims, and authorized the court "to hear and determine" them. If the claim
was for relief equitable in its nature, the determination of it
authorized by the act, authorized a judgment allowing the
claim if the title to such relief was otherwise made out. How
can a claim for equitable relief be heard and determined unless
it be possible to declare that the claimant is entitled to it?
And where general jurisdiction to hear and determine is given,
it would seem that authority must necessarily be deemed to
have been given, to render such judgment as the law requires,
unless, by some express and unequivocal language, the court is
limited in its award of relief. It would seem as if in the case
referred to, the court first by implication alone reached the
conclusion that relief was limited, and then employed that implication to qualify the otherwise unqualified grant of power.
(d) But the act we are now interpreting is of a wholly
different character. The terms of the grant of jurisdiction are
as broad and emphatic as they can be made. It is impossible
not to believe that it proceeded upon the full recognition of
the truth that the furnishing of redress by the government in
cases of just claims upon it by individuals was a plain governmental obligation, which could not be discharged except by
providing judicial methods by which justice should be ascer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

tained and declared; that the creation and furnishing of such
methods was at the same time dictated by a prudential regard
for the government's own interests in relieving Congress from
burdens which it could not carry and which greatly tended to
disable it from the discharge of its proper duties; and that
the determination was to frame a measure of relief which
should be co-extensive with the obligation.
If these were the views which induced the adoption of the
measure, how is it possible by distant and doubtful implication
to limit the jurisdiction by the line which separates judgments
for money from those for other relief? Is the obligation to
furnish other relief, when the case requires it, less strong? Is
Congress better fitted to mould and shape equitable relief
than it is to reckon how much money is due? Is the work
of determining equitable relief a less inappropriate or burdensome office for the legislative power to perform? Is it
accompanied with any greater hazards to the interests of the
government? The proper answer to all these questions is
wrapped up in the just proposition that when Congress has
conferred authority upon the Court of Claims "to hear and
determine .
.
all claims founded upon the Constitution
of the United States, or any law of Congress except for pensions, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or
upon any contract, expressed or implied with the government
of the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims
the party would be entitled to redress against the United
States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty, if the
United States were suable;" the plain intention is to render
justice in all cases, save the few excepted ones, by judicial
methods and in the ordinary judicial forms, and that where the
government would be bound to furnish redress to an individual, if the government were suable, it shall be at least declared
that it is bound to furnish that same redress whatever the
nature of it may be.
But in the resort to interpretation and construction, were
this allowable, it will be found that the above conclusion will
only be supported and confirmed. (a) The broad signifi-

UJNITED STATES v. JONES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

cance of the word "claim" should be noted. It is the largest
term known to the law in describing the redress to which a
party may be entitled. Worcester's Unabridged Die. sub
"verb;" United States v. Wilcox, 4 Blatchford, 385, 388; Pigg
v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 614, 615; 1 Burrill's Law Dic.
296. (b) And to broaden, rather than limit its already extensive meaning, it is made indifferent whether the claim is one
for which a party, is entitled to redress in a court of law,
equity, or admiralty. (c) And to make it co-extensive with*
right or cause of action, it is made to embrace every form of
redress which could be asserted against the United States,
"if the United States were suable." (d) Surely in the face
of this manifest effort to embrace all forms of redress, the suggestion that those only were intended which consist in demands for money, must be promptly rejected. (e) But, more
than this, the requirement is made that the petition shall,
inter alia, set forth "the money or other thing claimed."
Will it be suggested that the law requires the petition to set
forth a demand which it does not intend shall be considered?
(f) Sec. 7 requires that a judgment shall be rendered in every
case, and if the suit be "in equity or admiralty the court shall
proceed with the same according to the rules of such court."
(g) Nor should the significance of the title be lost sight of,
"An act to provide for the bringing of suits against the
United States."
In the face of these indications of intent, the single circumstance that money judgments only are directly mentioned' is
of no significance. It was necessary to mention these for the
purpose of securing to claimants the right to interest. This
does not follow as of course in the case of government claims.
It was wholly unnecessary to mention other judgments, or to
point out any way in which they should be obeyed or satisfied. In the case of a money judgment the function of the
couwrt was fully performed when it was rendered. It could
not be paid without the action of Congress in making an
appropriation. No executive officer could otherwise apply a
dollar of the public money to its satisfaction. The raising and
appropriation of money is the exclusive function of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

In respect to other things to be done, that is, other forms of
relief, Congress would have no concern. Such matters would
concern the executive departments alone. It was enough that
the court should declare what the government should do. The
government was charged with full notice of the declaration,
for it is one of the parties to the suit. The doing of the act
could not, at least in most instances, be compelled, and there
was no intention to furnish means of compulsion in any
instance.
Thus there is ground for the particular mention of money
judgments, while there is silence in respect to others. Obedience to. the latter is an immediate duty of the executive departments, without any intervention of Congress; but there
is no duty to obey the former until an appropriation is made
by Congress. Where such an appropriation is made, money
judgments stand precisely like the others. The execution of
both are alike an executive duty; but the execution of neither
can be enforced.
.lbr. Johnr Paul Jones, by permission of court, filed a brief
for all the appellees.
Xr. Solicitor General closed for appellants.
AIR. JusTicE BRADLEY, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
'The question involved is, whether the act of March 3d, 1887,
which is entitled "An act to provide for the bringing of suits
against the government of the United States" (241 Stat. 505),
authorizes suits of the kind like the present, which are brought
not for the recovery of money, but for equitable relief by
specific performance, to compel the issue and delivery of a
patent. In the case of Urnited States v. Alire, 6 Wall. 573,
we distinctly held that the acts of 1855 and 1863, which
established the Court of Claims and defined its jurisdiction,
did not give it power to entertain any such suits as these; and
that case was followed by Bonner v. United States, 9 Wall.
156, and has been approved in subsequent cases. United

UITITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, 412; United States v. Shurz,
102 U. S. 378, 404. It is argued, however, that the new law
has extended the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims and the
concurrent jurisdiction of the Circuit and District Courts, or at
least the latter, so as to embrace every kind of claim, equitable
as well as legal, and specific relief, or a recovery of property,
as well as a recovery of money. If such is the legislative will,
of course the courts must conform to it, although the management and disposal of the public domain, in which the newly
claimed jurisdiction would probably be most frequently called
into exercise, has always been regarded as more appropriately
belonging to the political department of the government than
to the courts, and more a matter of administration than judicature. A careful examination of the statute, and a comparison of its terms with those of the acts of 1855 and 1863, can
alone settle the question.
By the first section of the act of February 24, 1855, 10 Stat.
612, c. 122, it was enacted that a court should be established,
to be called the Court of Claims, the jurisdiction of which was
defined as follows: "The said court shall hear and determine
all claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any
regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract,
express or implied, with the government of the United States,
which may be suggested to it by a petition filed therein; and
also all claims which may be referred to it by either house of
Congress." The act of March 3d, 1863, passed to amend the
act of 1855, 12 Stat. 765, c. 92, added: "That the said court
shall also have jurisdiction of all set-offs, ounterclaims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated,
or other demands whatsoever, on the part of the government
against any person making claim against the government in
said court." Jurisdiction was subsequently given of claims for
the proceeds of property captured or abandoned during the
rebellion, and of claims of paymasters and other disbursing
officers for relief from responsibility on account of capture of
government funds or property in their hands. These latter
branches of jurisdiction need not be considered here.
Turning now to the act of March 3d, 1887, which reenacted

OCTOBER TERMW, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or revised the previous laws as to the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims, and conferred concurrent jurisdiction for limited
amounts on the ordinary courts, we find the following language used:
"The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine the following matters:
"First. All claims founded upon the Constitution of the
United States or any law of Congress, except for pensions,
or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, expressed or implied, with the government of
the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated,
in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the
party would be entitled to redress against the United States
either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty, if the United
States were suable."
"Second. All set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages,
whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the government of the United States
against any claimant against the government in said court."
"SEc. 2. That the district courts of the United States shall
have concurrent jurisdiction with the court of claims as to all
matters named in the preceding section where the amount of
the claim does not exceed one thousand dollars, and the circuit courts of the United States shall have such concurrent
jurisdiction in all cases where the amount of such claim exceeds
one thousand dollars and does not exceed ten thousand dollars."
The jurisdiction here given to the Court of Claims is precisely the same as that given in the acts of 1855 and 1863,
with the addition that it is extended to "damages .
in cases not sounding in tort" and to claims for which redress
may be had "either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty."
"Damages in cases not sounding in tort "- that is to say,
damages for breach of contract -had
already been held to
be recoverable against the government under the former acts.
United States v. Behan, 110 U. S.338; United States v. Great
Falls -ManufacturingCo., 112 U. S.645; Hollister v. Benedict
& Burnham, .anfg. Co., 113 U. S.59, 61.
"Claims" redressible "in a court of law, equity, or admi-

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

ralty," may be claims for money only, or they may be claims
for property or specific relief, according as the context of the
statute may require or allow. The claims referred to in the
original statute of 1855, as described in the first section thereof,
above quoted, might have included claims for other things
besides money; but various provisions of that act and of the
act of March 3, 1863, were inconsistent with the enforcement of
any claims under the law except claims for money. Thus, in the
5th section of the act of 1863, the right of appeal was limited
to cases in which the amount in controversy exceeded $3000,
and in the 7th section it was provided that if judgment should
be given in favor of the claimant, the sum due thereby should
be paid out of any general appropriation made by law for
the payment of private claims; and if a judgment was affirmed
on appeal, interest was to be allowed thereon, etc. In the
case of United States v. Alire, 6 Wall. 573, Mr. Justice Nelson
speaking for the court, said: "It will be seen by reference to
the two acts of Congress on this subject that the only judgments
which the Court of Claims is authorized to render against
the government, or over which the Supreme Court has any
jurisdiction on appeal, or for the payment of which by the
Secretary of the Treasury any provision is made, are judgments for money found due from the government to the petitioner. And although it is true that the subject matter over
which jurisdiction is conferred, both in the act of 1855 and of
1863, would admit of a much more extended cognizance of
cases, yet it is quite clear that the limited power given to render a judgment necessarily restrains the general terms and
confines the subject matter to cases in which the petitioner
sets up a moneyed demand as due from the government."
The decree of the Court of Claims in that case was that the
claimant recover of the government a military land warrant
for 160 acres of land, and that it be made out and delivered
to 'him by the proper officer. This court said: "We find no
provision in any of the statutes requiring a judgment of this
character, whether in this court or in the Court of Claims, to
be obeyed or satisfied."
The sections of the act of 1863 referred to in this opinion are
VOL. CXxi--2

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

still in force, not being repealed by the act of 1887, which
only repeals "all laws and parts of laws inconsistent" therewith. Section five, relating to appeals, is transferred to § 707
of the Revised Statutes, giving an appeal to this court "where
the amount in controversy exceeds $3000;" and section seven,
relating to the mode of paying judgments out of a general
appropriation, and allowing interest where a judgment is
affirmed, is contained in §§ 1089, 1090 of the Revised Statutes.
These sections are still the law on the subjects to which they
relate, being necessary to the completion of the system, and
not being supplied by any other enactments. Indeed, they
are expressly retained. The fourth section of the act of 1887
declares that "the jurisdiction of the respective courts of the
United States proceeding under this act, including the right of
exception and appeal, shall be governed by the -law now in
force, in so far as the same is applicable and not inconsistent
with the provisions of this act," and the ninth section declares,
"that the plaintiff or the United States, in any suit brought
under the provisions of this act, shall have the same rights of
appeal or writ of error as are now reserved in the statutes of
the United States in that behalf made, and upon the conditions
and limitations therein contained." These provisions undoubtedly include the Court of Claims as well as the District and
Circuit Courts. So, in relation to interest, section ten declares
that "from the date of such final judgment or decree interest
shall be computed thereon, at the rate of four per cent per
annum, until the time when an appropriation is made for the
payment of the judgment or decree." It seems, therefore, that
in the point of providing only for money decrees and money
judgments, the law is unchanged, merely being so extended -as
to include claims for money arising out of equitable and maritime as well as legal demands. We do not think that it was
the intention of Congress to go farther than this. Had it been,
some provision would have been made for carrying into execution decrees for specific performance, or for delivering the
possession of property recovered in kind. The general scope
and purport of the act is against any farther extension than
that here indicated. The expression in the fifth section, refer-

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

ring to "money or any other thing claimed, or the damages

sought to be recovered," on which so much reliance is placed
by the appellees, cannot outweigh the considerations referred
to, and operate to introduce entirely new fields of jurisdiction.
It is one of those general expressions which must be restrained
by the more special and definite indications of intention furnished by the context.
We cannot yield to the suggestion that any broader jurisdiction as to subject matter is given to the Circuit and District
Courts than that which is .given to the Court of Claims. It
is clearly the same jurisdiction - " concurrent jurisdiction"
only -within certain limits as to amount; and the language
in which those limits are expressed furnishes an additional
argument in favor of the conclusion which we have reached.
It is declared "that the District Courts of the United States
shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of Claims
where the amount of the claim does not exceed $1000,"
etc. This language is properly applicable only to a money
claim. Had anything but money been in the legislative mind
the language would have been, "where the amount or value
of the thing claimed does not exceed $1000," etc.
Of course, our province is construction only; the policy of
the law is the prerogative of the legislative department. But
notwithstanding the glowing terms in which able jurists have
spoken of the progress of civilization and enlightened government as exhibited in subjecting government itself, equally
with individuals, to the jurisdiction of its own courts, we
should have been somewhat surprised to find that the administration of vast public interests, like that of the public
lands, which belongs so appropriately to the political department, had been cast upon the courts - which it surely would
have been, if such a wide door had been opened for suing
the government to obtain patents and establish land claims,
as the counsel for the appellees in these cases seems to
imagine. We are satisfied that the door has not yet been
thrown open thus wide.
The decrees of the court are reversed in all the eases, and
the causes are respectively remanded with instructions to
dismiss the origina petitions or bills.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Dissenting Opinion, Miller, J.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER (with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

FIn)

dissenting.

I find myself unable to concur with the majority of the
court in the construction given by it, in the opinion just read,
to the provisions of the act of March 3, 1887. This act was
evidently intended to confer a new and important jurisdiction
upon the Court of Claims, and a concurrent jurisdiction to
a limited extent, in the same class of cases, upon the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States. I can see no other
possible object in that part of the statute which confers this
new jurisdiction by the use of language which for the first
time in the history of that court authorizes it to take cognizance of claims where the party would be entitled to redress,
against the United States either in a court of law, equity
or admiralty, if the United States were suable, than to make
them suable in such cases. To hold that the distinct grant
of power here provided for is controlled by the fact that
this court has under former statutes decided that it did not
then exist, is simply to nullify this new grant of power.
The manifest purpose of this new act was to confer power

which the Court of Claims did not previously have, and to
authorize it to take jurisdiction of a class of -cases of which
it had not cognizance before.
To say that under such circumstances the new statute is to be crippled and rendered
ineffectual in the only new feature which it has, in regard
to the jurisdiction of that court, is in my mind a refusal to
obey the law as made by Congress in the matter in which
its power is undisputed.
It is clear to me that Congress intended by this act to
enlarge very materially the right of suit against the United
States, to facilitate this right by allowing suits to be brought
in the Circuit and District Courts where the parties resided,
and that it also designed to enlarge the remedy in the Court
of Claims to meet all such cases in law, equity, and admiralty,
against the United States, as would be cognizable in such
courts against individuals.
I am authorized to say that MR.JUSTICE FIELn agrees with
me in this dissent.

