OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Lake City v. Hollister, 118 U. S. 256, 263; Pennsylvania
Railroad v. St. Louis &o. Railroad,118 U. S. 290, 317, 318.
The sole ground of our decision is that the bridge contract
is independent of the lease, and is valid and binding as between
the parties to this suit, whether the lease is valid or invalid.
This being so, the question argued at the bar, -whether the
appellants, by reason of eviction, are no longer liable on the
lease, becomes immaterial; and the judgment of the Circuit
Court in a former suit, affirming the validity of the lease, has
no effect upon our decision, for the same reason, as well as because the Bridge Company was not a party to that judgment,
and therefore neither bound by it nor entitled to the benefit
of it.
Decree afirmed.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER

and the late Mm. JUSTICE

MATTHEWS, having been of counsel, took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

WILIAMS v. CONGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 105 of October Term, 1887.-

Decided October 22, 1888.

A renewal of an application for a rehearing after the close of the term at
which judgment was rendered, and for reasons which have been passed
upon by the court, is not in order, and does not commend itself to the
favorable consideration of the court.

Tnis was a petition to correct a clerical mistake in the
opinion of this court, delivered April 2, 1888, Williams .
Conger, 125 U. S. 397, citing in support of the power to make
the amendment Bank of -Kentueky v. Wistar, 3 Pet. 431. To
this petition was appended a petition for a rehearing which
had been presented and overruled at October Term, 1887,
accompanied by a "demand upon the court" to give it a
hearing.

MARSHALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

21r. Eugene Williams for both petitions.
MmR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Leave to file a motion for rehearing in this case is asked for
on the ground of clerical error in the opinion. A motion for
rehearing was made at the last term upon precisely the same
brief now sought to be filed, and notwithstanding the alleged
misconception in the opinion of the point made by the plaintiff in error, the court was satisfied with the conclusion it had
reached, and that no modification of the judgment was required, and no rehearing was necessary or called for. The
motion was therefore denied. The persistent renewal of the
application at this time, after the close of the term at which
judgment was rendered, and especially upon the same reasons
once overruled, is not in order, and does not recommend itself
to the favorable consideration of the court.

MARSHALL

. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAMS.
No. 57. Argued November 1,1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

Marshall v. United States, 124 U. S. 391, is affirmed on rehearing.

Tis case was heard at October Term 1887, and the judgment below was affirmed. 124: U. S. 391. A petition for
rehearing was granted April 30, 1888, 127 U. S. 786, and the
cause was reargued at this term.
.Mr. V. 1). .Davidgefor appellants.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard for appellees.
MIR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, on the 19th of November, 1888,
announced that a majority of the court adhered to the views
expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan in the opinion of the court
in this case delivered at the last term, affirming the judgment
of the Court of Claims.

Afflrmed.

