UNITED STATES v. DREW.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. DREW.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

FOR THE

No. 1061. Argued January 28, 29, 189. -Decided May 13,1889.
United States v. Jones, ante, 1, affirmed and applied to this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Ab'. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. James I.
YMi.

Bradford for defendant in error.

JusToE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought against the United States to
establish the claim of the plaintiff to have land warrants or
certificates of location for one thousand and fifteen acres of
land made out and delivered to him by way of indemnity and
satisfaction for a certain concession or grant of land made by
the Spanish governor to one Francisco Adante, in 1788, the
land itself having been surveyed as public land by the United
States and disposed of to purchaser . The claim is made under
the provisions of the*act of June 2d, 1858, entitled "An act
to provide for the location of certain confirmed private land
claims of the State of Missouri, and for other purposes," 11
Stat. 294, the claim in question having been confirmed by act
of Congress passed February 28, 1823, 3 Stat. 727. The suit
is subject to the same objections which exist in relation to the
suits of Carrie Jones and others, just disposed of, and the same
decree must be made as in those cases.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
"eranded,with instructionsto dismiss the originalyetition
or bill.

NTm.
JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTiCE Fmr
dissented, for
the reasons stated in their dissent in United States v. Jones.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

KENNON v. GILMER.
GIL:MER v. KEINON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Nos. 178, 203.

Argued January 30, 31,1889.--Decided May 13, ISS9.

The denial of a change of venue, moved for on the affidavit of the party's
agent to the state of public opinion in the county in which the action is
brought, is not reviewable by this court on error to the Supreme Court
of a Territory, even if a subject of appeal to that court from the trial
court under the territorial statutes.
In an action against the proprietors of a stage coach, for an injury caused
to a passenger by the misbehavior of one of the horses, evidence of subsequent similar misbehavior of the horse is admissible, in connection
with evidence of his misbehavior at and before the time of the accident,
as tending to prove a vicious disposition and fixed habit.
In assessing damages for a personal injury caused by negligence, the jury
may rightly be instructed to take into consideration the plaintiff's bodily
and mental pain and suffering, taken together, and necessarily resulting
from the original injury.
In an action at law for a personal injury, in which damages have been
assessed by a jury at an entire sum, the court is not authorized, upon a
motion for a new trial for excessive damages and for insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict, to enter an absolute judgment, according
to its own estimate of the damages which the plaintiff ought to have recovered, for a less sum than assessed by the jury; and either party is
entitled to a reversal of such a judgment by writ of error.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
2ft. far nt'F. _ffonis for Kennon.
.Afi. J ifubley Ashton (with whom was Mr. Nathaniel TFilson on the brief) for Gilmer.
MR.

JuST

E

GRAsY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought April 4, 1882, in a district court of
the county of Deer Lodge and Territory of Montana, against
Gilmer and others, common carriers of passengers for hire by
stage coaches between the towns of Deer Lodge and Helena,
I

