RAILWAY COMPANIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 311
Syllabus.

acquire any absolute right to become a party to the suit instituted by the Furnace Company. Purchasers of property
involved in a pending suit may be admitted as parties, in the
discretion of the court; but they cannot demand, as of absolute right, to be made parties, nor can they complain if
they are compelled to abide by whatever decree the court
may render, within the limits of its power, in respect to the
interest their vendor had in the property purchased by them
pendente lite. Fyster v. GcJ, 91 U. S. 521, 524; Union Trust
Co. v. Inland 3avigation and Improvement Co., 130 U. S.
565; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. ยง 406; 2lurray v. Ballou, I Jfohns.
Ch. 566. As said by Sir William Grant, in Bishop of Tinchester v. Paine, 11 Yes. 194, 197, "the litigating parties
are exempted from the necessity of taking any notice of a
title so acquired. As to them, it is as if no such title existed.
Otherwise, such suits would be indeterminable; or, which
would be the same in effect, it would be in the pleasure of
one party at what period the suit should be determined."
The present proceeding is an attempt, upon the part of a
purchaser pedente lite, to relitigate, in an original, independent
suit, the matters determined in the suit to which his vendor
was a party. That cannot be permitted, consistently with the
settled rules of equity practice.
There is no error in the decree, and it is

Affl med.
PITTSBURGH, CININNATI AND ST. LOUIS RAILILTON
WAY COMPANY v. KEOKUK AND IA
BRIDGE COMPANY.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. KEOKUK AND HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY.
APPEALS

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos.11,13. Argued January 25,188.-Decided May 13,1889.

A contract made by the president of a railroad corporation, in its behalf,
and within the scope of its chartered powers, to pay certain sums to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.
proprietors of a railway bridge for the use thereof, and made known to
the directors and stockholders, and not disapproved by them within a
reasonable time, binds the corporation.
.A contract to pay certain sums for the use of a railway bridge across the
Mississippi River, between Illinois and Iowa, is not ultra vires of a railroad corporation of Illinois or of Pennsylvania, whose road connects, by
means of intervening railroads, with the bridge as part of a continuous
line of transportation.
A being a railroad corporation of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, B a railroad
corporation of Pennsylvania and Ohio, and C a railroad corporation of
Pennsylvania, these three corporations, for the purpose of establishing
a continuous line of transportation, entered into an indenture, by which
A leased its railroad to B for ninety-nine years, B covenanted to pay to
A a proportion of the earnings of that road, and to assume and carry
out certain transportation contracts existing between A and other companies, receiving and enjoying the benefits thereof, and C guaranteed the
performance of B's covenants. Before the execution of the lease, a
contract was drawn up, by which a corporation of Iowa and Illinois,
authorized by its charter to build a railway bridge across the Mississippi
River from Keokuk in Iowa to Hamilton in Illinois, agreed to build such
a bridge, and granted to A and three other railroad corporations in perpetuity the right to use it for the passage of their trains; and they
agreed to pay monthly to the bridge company stipulated tolls, and, if
those should fall below a crtain sum, to make up the deficiency, each
contributing in proportion to the tonnage passed by it over the bridge.
After the execution of the lease, and upon a formal request of the presidents of B and 0 in their behalf, undertaking that they should assume
all the liabilities and be entitled to all the benefits of the bridge contract,
as if it had been specifically named in and made part of the lease, A's
president, in its behalf, executed the bridge contract, and reported to
his directors that he had done so, and they never took any action upon
the subject. C's president and directors, in two printed annual reports
to their stockholders, declared the settled policy of the company to
secure a continuous line of traffic from Philadelphia to Keokuk and
westward, and stated that through B this object had been accomplished.
A subsequent modification of the bridge contract, by which a deficiency
in the tolls was to be borne equally by the four railroad corporations
parties thereto, was executed by A's president, pursuant to a similar request and undertaking of the presidents of B and of C. The bridge was
then opened for use, and was afterwards used by B and C; and the
sums payable by A under the modified bridge contract for tolls and deficiencies were semi-annually demanded by the bridge company from B,
and, after examination of the accounts, paid by B's comptroller for three
years. Held, that B and C were liable to the bridge company for the
amount of subsequent deficiencies payable by A under that contract,
whether the lease was valid or invalid.

v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 373
RAILWAY COALPANIES
4
Statement of the Case.
THIS was a bill in equity, filed July 25, 1881, by the Keokuk
and Hamilton Bridge Company against the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company and the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, to recover deficiencies in tolls for the use
of the plaintiff's bridge, under a contract executed at the request of the presidents of those two railroad companies by the
Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railroad Company,
which was made by amendment a.party to the bill.
The Keokuk and Hamilton Bridge Company was a corporation organized under the laws of Iowa and of Illinois. The
Pennsylvania Railroad Company was a corporation organized
under the laws of Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
and St. Louis Railway Company was formed in 1868 by the
consolidation of the Pan-Handle Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, the Holiday's Cove
Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
West Virginia, and the Steubenville and Indiana Railroad
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Ohio.
The Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central Railroad Com-

pany was a corporation formed in 1867 by the consolidation
of the Columbus and Indiana Central Railroad Company, a
corporation existing under the laws of Ohio and Indiana, and
the Chicago and Great Eastern Railway Company, a corporation existing under the laws of Indiana and Illinois.
The railroads of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company from
Philadelphia to Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, of the Pittsburgh,
Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company from Pittsburgh
to Columbus in Ohio, of the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana
Central Railroad Company from Columbus to the State line
between Indiana and Illinois, and of the Toledo, Peoria and
Warsaw Railway Company from that State line to Hamilton
in Illinois, with the bridge of the Keokuk and Hamilton
Bridge Company across the Mississippi River between Hamilton, and Keokuk, and the road of the Des Moines Valley Railroad Company from Keokuk to Des Moines in the State of
Iowa, form a continuous line of railroad transportation from
Philadelphia, on the east, to Des Moines, on the west. For
the sake of brevity, we shall speak of those companies respec-

OCTOBER TERM,1888.
Statement of the Case.

tively as the Pennsylvania Company, the Pittsburgh Company,
the Indiana Central Company, the Peoria Company, the Bridge
Company and the Des Moines Company.
The bridge was built under a contract, dated January 19,
1869, made by the Bridge Company with the Indiana Central
Company, the Peoria Company, the Des Moines Company,
and a fourth railroad company (the Toledo, Wabash and Western Railway Company) whose railroad connected with the
bridge at Hamilton. By th'at contract, the Bridge Company
agreed to begin to construct forthwith across the Mississippi
River at Keokuk, and to complete by January 1, 1870, "a
substantial wrought-iron bridge, suitable for the running of
railway trains;" "to lay a track upon said bridge, and connect the same with railways belonging to the parties hereto,.
in such manner and at such points as may hereafter be agreed
upon;" and "to maintain and keep in repair in perpetuity the
said bridge and track, so;that trains may safely cross at all
times, except when repairs make it necessary that crossing
should be temporarily suspended, or when it shall be necessary
to have the draw open for the passage of boats;" and granted
to those four railroad companies, in perpetuity, the right to
use the bridge for the purpose of passing their trains across
the Mississippi River; and they agreed to pay monthly stipulated rates for the transportation of passengers and freight,
and, if the gross amount of the rates for freight for any year
should fall below the sum of $80,000, making up the deficiency,
each of the four railroad companies contributing in proportion
to the tonnage passed by it over the bridge; for which, by a
subsequent modification of the contract in June, 1871, was
substituted one fourth of such deficiency.
This suit was brought to recover from the Pittsburgh Company and the Pennsylvania Company such deficiencies in the
sums payable by the Indiana Central Company under the
modified bridge contract since September 1, 1874, amounting
to $118,076.89, and interest. The Circuit Court entered a
decree for the plaintiff, in accordance with the piayer of the
bill; and the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies each
appealed to this court.

RAILWAY COMPANIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 375
Statement of the Case.

The facts on which the Bridge Company sought to charge
the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies for these sums
were as follows:
After the original bridge contract had been drawn up, and
before it had been executed, the Indiana Central Company
entered into an indenture with the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, by which it leased its franchises and road,
and all lands and property connected with the use thereof, to
the Pittsburgh Company for ninety-nine years, and the Pennsylvania Company guaranteed the performance of all the covenants of the Pittsburgh Company as lessee.
The thirteenth and the sixteenth articles of that lease clearly
manifest that one of its chief objects was to establish a continuous line for quick transportation from Pennsylvania to the
West, and to procure freight and passengers at each end of
the line; and they contain special provisions calling for action
of the Pennsylvania Company, as well as of the Pittsburgh
Company, so as to promote that object.
The sixteenth article of the lease declares that it is in consideration of the benefits so accruing to the Pennsylvania
Company, by reason of the covenants of the lessor and of the
lessee, "'in the forming, maintaining and operating of a continuous line of railway in connection with the road or roads
of" the Pennsylvania Company, that this company guarantees
to the Indiana Central Company that the Pittsburgh Company
will keep and perform all its covenants, and that, upon its failure or default to do so, the Pennsylvania Company will, upon
written notice of the kind and nature of such failure or default,
keep and perform those covenants; in which event it is agreed
that it shall be entitled to all the benefits that might accrue
therefrom to the Pittsburgh Company.
Among those covenants of the Pittsburgh Company, as
lessee, which the Pennsylvania Company thus guaranteed the
performance of, were the covenant in the sixth article to pay
to or for the benefit of the Indiana Central Company three
tenths of the gross earnings of the property leased, and the
covenant in the ninth article, by whi6h the Indiana Central
Company assigns to the Pittsburgh Company certain existing

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

contracts for transportation over other railroads not mentioned above, and the Pittsburgh Company "assumes, and
dgrees at its own risk and expense to carry out, each and all
of said contracts, according to their respective tenors and
legal liabilities, receiving and enjoying all benefits to be derived therefrom."
The lease was executed in behalf of each of the three companies, parties thereto, by its president and secretary, under
its seal, and was approved by votes of the directors and of the
stockholders of the Indiana Central Company and of the Pittsburgh Company, on or before February 1, 1869, so as to make
it valid under the laws of Ohio, and the Pittsburgh Company
forthwith took possession of and has since operated the railroad so leased.
The lease does not appear to have been approved by formal
vote of the directors or stockholders of the Pennsylvania Company. But, immediately after its execution, the president and
directors of this company, in their printed annual report to
their stockholders of February 10, 1869, stated that the Pennsylvania Company controlled the railway of the Pittsburgh
Company, "as an indispensable connection for the Pennsylvania Railway with the West and Southwest," by means of
the ownership by the Pennsylvania Company of more than
five millions of the stock and bonds of the Pittsburgh Company, and of the lease from the Indiana Central Company to
the Pittsburgh Company, "guaranteed by this company;"
and expressed the settled policy of the Pennsylvania Company thereby to secure a continuous line of traffic to Keokuk
and westward.
The bridge contract was not one of the transportation contracts specified in the ninth article of the lease. But on February 16, 1869, the presidents of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, in their behalf, jointly addressed a formal
letter to the president of the Indiana Central Company, referring to the bridge contract as having been under negotiation,
but unexecuted by the Indiana Central Company, at the date
of the final execution of the lease, and requesting him, in his
official capacity, to execute the bridge contract, "it being

RAILWAY COMPAN ES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 377
Statement of the Case.

understood that the said lessee and Pennsylvania Railroad
Company shall assume all the liabilities and obligations and be
entitled to all the benefits of said bridge contract, the same
as if it had been specifically named and made a part of the
ninth article of the said lease."
The president of the Indiana Central Company thereupon,
in its name and under its seal, executed the bridge contract,
and reported to its board of directors at the next meeting, in
Mlarch, 1869, that he had done so; and the board never in any
way repudiated or disapproved his act or took any action upon
the subject.
On February 1, 1870, an amendment of the lease, defining
the gross earnings to be accounted for as the annual gross
earnings of the road, after deducting, among other things,
"the pro rata bridge tolls" and "terminal expenses allowed
to other railroad corporations on through business between the
East and the West," was executed by the presidents of the
three companies, and approved by votes of the directors and
stockholders of the Indiana Central Company and of the
Pittsburgh Company.
This amendment, like the original lease, does not appear to
have been approved by formal vote of the directors or stockholders of the Pennsylvania Company. But the annual report
made in print by its president and directors to the stockholders a year after, on February 18, 1871, spoke of this
company's control of the western traffic, through the Pittsburgh Company, and by means of the lease of the Indiana
Central Railroad, as an established fact.
On June 6, 1871, the bridge contract was modified so as to
have the deficiency in tolls paid to the Bridge Company by
the Indiana Central Company and the three other railroad
corporations, parties to that contract, one fourth each, instead
of in proportion to tonnage; and the modification was executed
by the president of the Indiana Central Company, pursuant to
a request of the presidents of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania
Companies, similar in terms to their request upon which the
original bridge contract had been executed.
It was on June 13, 1871, after all these transactions had

OCTOBER TERlM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

taken place, that the bridge was accepted by the Bridge
Company, and was opened for use; and thenceforward it was
used by the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, in the
exercise of the control asserted by them under the various
contracts above mentioned. From that time the Bridge Company, acting in accordance with the understanding expressed
in the letters from the presidents of the Pittsburgh and
Pennsylvania Companies to the president of the Indiana
Central Company, upon which the latter, in behalf of his
company, had executed the bridge'contract and the modification thereof, as Well as the original lease and the amendment
thereof, demanded payment directly from the Pittsburgh
Company, semi-annually, of the sums payable by the Indiana
Central Company for tolls and deficiencies under the modified
bridge contract; and for more than three years. from June,
1871, to September, 1874, the comptroller of the Pittsburgh
Company, after examining the books of account of the Bridge
Company, paid to the Bridge Company the amount both of
such tolls and of such deficiencies. Since that time like payments were demanded by the Bridge Company of the Pittsburgh Company, and the tolls only were paid.
Mr. George Hoadly for appellants.
I. The lease and amended lease were ultra vires of both
lessor and lessee.
(1) As to the lessor. The Columbus, Chicago and Indiana
Central Railway Company was a corporation of Ohio, Indiana
and Illinois. By repeated decisions of this court, it is settled
that this made it a separate corporation of each of the States,
quoad the franchises conferred by and the property situate
within such State. Ohio & .MississippiRailroadCo. v. TMheeler,
1 Black, 286; Railway Co. v. TFhitton, 13 Wall. 270; Atuller
v. Dows, 94 U. S.444, 447; .KansasPacific Railroad v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad Co., 112 U. S. 414. In order,
therefore, that it might lease its entire road, the power must
have been conferred by all the States through which its line
ran. Doubtless, it might lease that part of its road lying in

RAILWAY CONIPAKIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 379
Argument for Appellants.

Ohio separately, if it had authority so to do under the laws of
Ohio, and the same is true as to the portions of its line within
the other States; but to sustain a lease of its entire line, such
as this was, the power must be shown to have been conferred
by all these States. As that portion of the line situate within
the State of Indiana, 421. miles in length, separating the portions of the railroad lying in Ohio and Illinois from each other
by the entire width of the State of Indiana, was necessarily
an integral part thereof, it has been established by the decision of this court in the case of Pennsylvania Railroad v. St.
1ouis, .Alton & Terre Haute Railroad,118 U. S. 290, 630, that
there was no law of Indiana at the time this lease was made,
conferring on the lessor company power to make it.
(2) As to the lessee. The State of Ohio could not confer this
power upon the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway
Company, because it was a power to be exercised with reference to property within the local jurisdiction and state sovereignty of Indiana alone.
This is a necessary result of the limitations of the powers
of the several States within the boundaries of those States.
The United States, not the States severally, have the right to
pass laws which shall operate in more than one State. I do
not deny that the State of Ohio has authorized the lease, by
one railroad company to another, of a railroad, part of which
may be outside of the State of Ohio; but, as the power of the
State is infra-territorial, this legislation is not in itself alone
sufficient.
II. Neither party to the lease had legal authority to enter
into the bridge contract or either of the amendments thereto.
This proposition .is established by the decision in the case of
PennsylvaniaRailroad Co. v. St. Louis, Alton &c. Railroad,
ubi supra.
Neither the Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Central railway nor the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis railway
approaches within two hundred miles of the bridge, whose
receipts were attempted to be guaranteed by the contracts in
question.
Neither Ohio, Indiana nor Illinois have conferred the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

on any of the parties to this case to enter into the bridge contracts. The Indiana statutes were before this court in the case
of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company,
and need no further reference. The form of the statute of
Ohio, in force at the time the contract was made, will be found
in 1 Swan & Critchfield, 281. It carefully limits the power to
railroad companies whose lines of railroad connect or are
continuous, and does not extend to bridge -companies at all.
Pearcev. Madison and Indianavolis Railroad,21 How. 441.
See also Davis v. Old Colony Railroad,131 Mass. 258; York
and Maryland Line Railroadv. Finans,17 How. 30; Green
Bay and Minnesota -Railroadv. Union Steamboat Co., 107
U. S.98; Eastern Counties Railway v. Hawees, 5 H. L. Cas.
331; Ashbury Railway Carriage & .IronCo. v. Riche, L. R.
7 H. L. 653; McGregor v. Dover and Deal Railway, 18 Q. B.
618; East Anglian Railway Co. v. Eastern Counties Railway, 11 C. B. 775; Downing v. Mount lfashivgton -RoadCo.,
40 K. H. 230; Pittsburgh& Steubenville Railroadv. Allegheny
County, 79 Penn. St. 210.
III. Neither lessor nor lessee authorized its officers to execute the bridge contract or either of the amendments thereto.
This court in Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.71, at p. 86,
uses this language: "In regard to corporations, the rule has
been well laid down by Comstock, C. J., in Parishv. Wheeler,
22 N.
494, that the executed dealings of corporations must
be allowed to stand for and against both parties when the
plainest rules of good faith require it." It may be contended
that this case is within this rule. To which we answer: (1),
in the words of Mr. Justice XMiller, following the passage just
quoted: "But what is sought in the case before us is the enforcement of the unexecuted part of this agreement." (2) Had
the bridge contract stood as originally executed, and without
amendments, we should not be here complaining of an adverse
decision in the Circuit Court; for that contract required the
Columbus, Chicago and Indiana Company to pay only in proportion to its use of the bridge.
IV. The lease and amended lease, and with them all liability upon the bridge contracts, were determined by eviction,
'7.

RAILWAY COMPANIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 381
Opinion of the Court.

January 1st, 1875. The view taken by the court in its opinion
makes it unnecessary to elaborate the argument on this point.
_31r. Lyman
appellee.

Tiurbull and -Mr.. Melville T. Fuller for

MR.JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal positions taken in the argument for the appellants were, that the Indiana Central Company, the Pittsburgh
Company and the Pennsylvania Company never authorized
their officers to execute the bridge contract, or to bind them
by it; and that the contract was beyond the scope of their corporate powers. But the court is of opinion that upon the facts
of this case neither of these positions can be maintained.
When the president of a corporation executes, in its behalf,
and within the scope of its charter, a contract which requires
the concurrence of the board of directors, and the board,
knowing that he has done so, does not dissent within a reasonable time, it will be presumed to have ratified his act. Indianapolis Rolling Mill v. St. Iouis &c. Railroad, 120 U. S. 256.
And when a contract is made by any agent of a corporation
in its behalf, and for a purpose authorized by its charter, and
the corporation receives the benefit of the contract, without
objection, it may be presumed to have authorized or ratified
the contract of its agent. Bank of Columbia v. Patterson,7
Cranch, 299; Bank of United States v. Dandridge,12 Wheat.
64; Zabriskie v. Cleveland &c. Railroad,23 How. 381; Gold
.Xining Co. v. 3Vational Bank, 96 U. S. 640; Pneumatic Gas
Co. v. Berry, 113 U. S. 322, 327. This doctrine was clearly
and strongly stated by Mr. Justice Story, delivering the judgment of this court, in each of the first two of the cases just
cited.
In Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, which was an action
brought against a corporation by an administrator to recover
for work done by his intestate under contracts with the committee of the corporation, he said: "Wherever a corporation

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of tle Court.

is acting within the scope of the legitimate purposes of its
institution, all parol contracts, made by its authorized agents,
are express promises of the corporation; ahd all duties imposed
on them by law, and all benefits conferred at their request,
raise implied promises, for the enforcement of which an action
may well lie.' 7 Cranch, 306. "Let us now consider what is
the evidence in this case, from which the jury might legally
infer an -express or an implied promise of the corporation.
The contracts were for the exclusive use and benefit of the
corporation, and made by their agents for purposes authorized
by their charter. The corporation proceed, on the faith of
those contracts, to pay money from time to time to the plaintiff's intestate. Although, then, an action might have lain
against the committee personally, upon their express contract,.
yet, as the whole benefit resulted to the corporation, it seems
to the court that from this evidence the jury might legally
infer that the corporation had adopted the contracts of the
committee, and had voted to pay the whole sum which should
become due under the contracts, and that the plaintiff's intestate.had accepted their engagement." 7 Cranch, 307.
In Bank of United States v. Dandrhidge, the point decided
was that the approval of a cashier's bond by the board of
directors of a bank, as required by statute, need not appear
upon the records of the board, but might be proved by presumptive evidence, in the same manner as similar facts might
be proved in the case of private persons, not acting as a corporation or as the agents of a corporation. The general
doctrine was affirmed, that the presumptions, .which, by the
general rules of evidence, "are continually made, in cases of
private persons, of acts even of the most solemn nature, when
those are the natural result or necessary accompaniment of
other circumstances," are equally applicable to corporations;
and it was said: "Persons, acting publicly as officers of the
corporation, are to be presumed rightfully in office; acts done
by the corporation, which presuppose the existence of other
acts to make them legally operative, are presumptive proofs of
the latter. Grants and proceedings beneficial to the corporation are presumed to be accepted; and slight acts on their

RAILWAY COTPANIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 383
Opinion of the Court.

part, which can be reasonably accounted for only upon the
supposition of such acceptance, are admitted as presumptions
of the fact. If officers of the corporation openly exercise a
power which presupposes a delegated authority for the purpose, and other corporate acts show that the corporation must
have contemplated the legal existence of such authority, the
acts of such officers will be deemed rightful, and the delegated
authority will be presumed." -12 Wheat. 70.
The original bridge contract was executed by the president
of the Indiana Central Company, in its behalf, upon the
formal request of the presidents of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, undertaking that these two corporations
should assume all the liabilities and obligations of that contract
and be entitled to all its benefits. The board of directors of
the Indiana Central Company, having been informed by its
president that he had executed the contract, never dissented,
and must therefore be presumed to have concurred. The
modification of the bridge contract was executed by the president of that company, in its behalf, upon a similar request and
undertaking of the presidents of the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies in their behalf.
After all this, the bridge was opened for use, and was used
by the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies. For more
than three years, semi-annual accounts for the gums payable
by the Indiana Central Company were rendered directly by
the Bridge Company to tl~e Pittsburgh Company, and settled
by the latter, after ex.amination by its comptroller. It must
be presumed, although not affirmatively proved, that the
comptroller reported his action in this respect to the board of
directors, as well as to the stockholders at their annual or
other meetings. There is no difficulty, therefore, in holding
that the Pittsburgh Company was bound by the bridge contract and the modification thereof, if ,within its corporate

powers.
The evidence that the directors or stockholders of the
Pennsylvania Company authorized or ratified the action of its
president in this regard is not so full and conclusive, but is
quite sufficient to bind this company. After the execution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the original bridge contract, the directors of the Pennsylvania
Company twice joined with the president in a printed annual
report to the stockholders, declaring in unequivocal terms the
settled policy of this company to secure a continuous line of
traffic from :Philadelphia to Keokuk and westward, and stating
that this object had been accomplished through the Pittsburgh
Company.
The reasonable inference from this evidence, which there is
nothing in the record to control or qualify, is that the Pennsylvania Company had the benefit of the original bridge contract, and either authorized or ratified its execution; and,
under the circumstances of this case, the president must be
considered as having authority to procure and assent to the
modification of that contract as to the proportion of the deficiency in tolls to be borne by the Pittsburgh Company as
principal and the Pennsylvania Company as guarantor.
From all the facts of the case, the conclusion is inevitable
that the Pittsburgh and the Pennsylvania Companies were
the real, though not the formal, parties to the bridge contract
executed by the Indiana 0entral ,Company at their request
and for their benefit, and that this contract, as well as the
lease, bound the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, if
within the scope of their corporate powers.
The outlines of the doctrine of ultra vires, and the reasons
on which it rests, have been clearly stated in previous judgments of this court.
The reasons why a corporation is not liable upon a contract
ultra vires, that is to say, beyond the powers conferred upon
it by the legislature, and varying from the objects of its creation. as declared in the law of its organization, are: 1st. The
interest of the public, that the corporation shall not transcend
the powers granted. 2d. The interest of the stockholders,
that'the capital shall not be subjected to the risk of enterprises
not contemplated by the charter, and therefore not authorized
by the stockholders in subscribing for the stock. 3d. The
obligation of every one, entering into a contract with a corporation, to take notice of the legal limits of its powers.
These three reasons are clearly brought out in the unani-

R MLWAY COMfPANIES v. KEOKUK-BRIDGE CO. 385
Opinion of the Court.

mous judgment of this court, delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell, in the leading case of Pearcev. .Madison cf Indiana olis
Railroad,21 How. 441, in which it was held that a railroad
corporation was not liable to be sued upon promissory notes
which it had given in payment for a steamboat received and
used by it, and running in connection with its railroad.
So it has been repeatedly adjudged by this court that a
lease made by one railroad corporation to another, either of
which is not expressly authorized by law to enter into the
lease, is ultra,vires and void. Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101
U. S. 71; Pennsylvania Railroad v. St. Louis &c. Railroad,
118 U. S. 290, 630; Oregon Railway v. Oregonian Railway,
130 U. S. 1.
But while the charter of a corporation, read in connection
with the general laws applicable to it, is the measure of its
powers, and a contract manifestly beyond those powers will
not sustain an action against the corporation, yet whatever,
under the charter and other general laws, reasonably construed, may fairly be regarded as incidental to the objects for
which the corporation is created, is not to be taken as prohibited. Accordingly, where the charter of a railroad corporation, or the general laws applicable to it, manifest the intention
of the legislature, for the purpose of securing a continuous line
of transportation of which its road forms part, to confer upon
it the power of making contracts with other railroad or steamboat corporations to promote that end, such contracts are not
,ultra v res. Green Bay & Ifinnesota, Railroad v. Union
Steamboat 6o., 107 U. S. 98. See also Branch v. Jesup, 106
U. S. 468, 478.
Whether, in view of the previous decisions of this court, the
lease from the Indiana Central Company could be upheld it is
unnecessary to consider, because the validity of the bridge
contract does not appear to us to depend upon the validity or
invalidity of the lease.
The bridge contract and the lease were separate and distinct
agreements. The bridge contract was in form between the
Bridge Company and the Indiana Central Company. The lease
was between the Indiana Central Company and the Pittsburgh
VOL. cxxxt-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and Pennsylvania Companies, and the Bridge Company was
not a party to the lease.
The Bridge Company was organized under the laws of Iowa
and Illinois, and was authorized by those laws and by the act
of Congress of July 25, 1866, c. 246, ยง 7,(14 Stat. 245,) to construct and maintain the bridge; and its power to enter into
the bridge contract is undoubted. The power of the Indiana
Central Company, as an Illinois corporation, to enter into that
contract is made equally clear by the statutes of Illinois, collected in the brief of the appellee.
By the statute of February 28, 1854, all railroad companies
of Illinois, having their termini fixed by law, and their roads
intersecting by continuous lines, are authorized to consolidate
their property and stock with each other, or with companies
out of the state, whose lines connect with theirs; and when,
by reason of such consolidation, or of such extension into or
through an adjoining state, it is necessary for the construction
of any railroad to cross any stream of water, it may be done
by bridges or viaducts. By the statute of February 12, 1855,
all railroad corporations of Illinois have the power to make allnecessary and convenient, "contracts and arrangements with
each other, and with railroad corporations of other states, for
leasing or running their roads, or any part thereof;" as well
as the "right of connecting with each other and with the railroads of other states, on such terms as shall be mutually agreed
upon by the companies interested." By the statute of February 16, 1865, "it shall be lawful for the directors of any railroad company created by the laws of this state to contract for
the use and operation of any railroad connecting with their
line beyond the limits of the state; and in all contracts for the
use and operation of any railroad by another corporation, it
shall be lawful for the parties to provide for the use of any of
the powers and privileges of either or both of the corporations
parties thereto." And by the statute of February 25, 1867,
"railroads terminating or to terminate at any point, on any
line of continuous railroad thoroughfare, where there now is
or shall be a railroad bridge for crossing of passengers and
freight in cars over the same as part of such thoroughfare,

KEOKUK BRI15GE CO. 387
RAILWAY COMPANIES 'o.
Opinion of the Court.

shall make convenient connections of such railroads, by rail,
with the rail of such bridge; and such bridge shall permit and
cause such connections of the rail of the same with the rail of
such railroads, so that by reason of such railroads and bridge
there shall be uninterrupted communication over such railroads
and bridge as public thoroughfares." See also Stats. of February 12, 1853, March 5, 1867, and March 11, 1869. Gross's
Stats. (3d ed.) 536-539.
The bridge contract was therefore a lawful and valid contract as between the Bridge Company and the Indiana Central
Company. Upon the question of its effect to bind the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies, some other facts attending its execution are worthy of consideration.
The bridge contract was not in existence as an executed and
binding contract when the lease was made. But it was signed
after the execution of the lease and the delivery of possession
of the road by the Indiana Central Company to the Pittsburgh
Company, and at the formal request of the Pittsburgh and
Pennsylvania Companies, embodying an express agreement on
their part with the Indiana Central Company to "assume all
the liabilities and obligations, and be entitled to all the benefits
of said bridge contract." The reference in that request and
agreement to the ninth article of the lease was for the purpose
of 'defining the extent of the liabilities and benefits assumed,
and perhaps of indicating that the Pittsburgh Company alone
was bound as principal, and the Pennsylvania Company as
guarantor only; but it did not make the bridge contract a
part of the lease.
The reasonable inference is that, according to the original
intent and by the subsequent action of the parties, the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies were understood and
treated as directly liable to the Bridge Company for the proportion of tolls and deficiencies, which, by the terms of the
bridge contract, was chargeable to the Indiana Central Company.
By the laws of Illinois, as we have seen, the bridge contract
was valid, and might lawfully be made between the Bridge
Company and the Indiana Central Company; and it appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to us equally clear that the laws of Pennsylvania authorized
the Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Companies to assume the
obligation of that contract with the Bridge Company, either
directly or through the intervention of the Indiana Central
Company.
By the statute of Pennsylvania of April 23, 1861, it is
enacted that "It shall and may be lawful for any railroad
c6mpany, created by and existing under the laws of this commonwealth, from time to time to purchase and hold the stock
and bonds, or either, of any other railroad company or companies chartered by, or of which the road or roads is or are
authorized to extend into, this commonwealth; and it shall be
lawful for any railroad companies to enter into contracts for
the use or lease of any other railroads upon such terms as may
be agreed upon with the compahy or companies owning the
same, and to run, use and operate such road or roads in accordance with such contract or lease: Provided, that the roads of
the companies so contracting or leasing shall be, directly or by
means of intervening railroads, connected with each other."
Purdon's Digest (11th ed.) 1439.
While the first provision of that statute authorizes any railroad company of Pennsylvania to purchase and hold stock and
bonds of such railroad companies as either are chartered by
the State or have roads extending into it, the second clause
makes it lawful for railroad companies of Pennsylvania to contract for the use or lease, not merely of railroads of the two
classes defined in the first clause, but of any railroads whatever, provided only "the roads of the companies so contracting
or leasing shall be, directly or by means of intervening railroads, connected with each other." The only reasonable construction of the words "any other railroads," in the second
clause, is that it includes all railroads, whether within or without the State, coming within the description of the proviso.
But any question of the construction of that statute in this
regard is removed, or rendered immaterial, by the statute of
Pennsylvania of February 11, 1870, (passed more than a year
before the modified bridge contract was executed, or the bridge
completed or used,) which, in the clearest terms, authorizes

RAILWAY COIMTANIES v. KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. 389
Opinion of the Court.

any railroad company of Pennsylvania to enter into a lease or
any other contract' on such terms and conditions as may be
agreed upon, or to guarantee the payments or covenants
thereof, as to any railroads, whether "within the limits of this
state, or created by or existing under the laws of any other
state or states," provided they are connected, either directly
or by means of intervening lines, with its road, and form a
continuous route for the transportation of persons and property. Purdon's Digest (11th ed.) 1441.
Nor can we have any doubt that the Bridge Company was
a railroad company, and the bridge a railroad, within the
meaning of these statutes. The principal purpose and use of
the bridge was the passage of railroad trains. It was, in substance and effect, a railroad built over water, instead of
upon land; and, strictly speaking, it was a railway viaduct
rather than a bridge. 'Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co.,
1 Wall. 116.
The necessary conclusion from the foregoing considerations
is that it was rightly held by the Circuit Court that the Bridge
Company was entitled to recover from the Pittsburgh Company, and it having declined to pay upon due demand, to recover from the Pennsylvania Company also, the amount of
the deficiencies in tolls which, by the modified bridge contract,
was payable by the Indiana Central Company.
It is proper to add that our judgment does not rest in any
degtee upon the ground suggested in argument, that the bridge
contract and the lease having been executed, the Pittsburgh
and Pennsylvania Companies, having received the benefits of
them, are estopped to deny their validity; because, according
to many recent opinions of this court, a contract made by a
corporation, which is unlawful and void because beyond the
scope of its corporate powers, does not, 'by being carried into
execution, become lawful and valid, but the proper remedy of
the party aggrieved is by disaffirming the contract, and suing
to recover, as on a quantum meruit, the value of what the
defendant has actually received the benefit of. Louisiana v.
Wood, 102 U. S. 294; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487,
503; Chapman v. Douglas County, 107 U. S. 348, 360; Salt

