AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
22, 1993, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2072, and were reported to Congress by
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see

post, p. 1060. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. § 2074, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and
the amendments thereto, see 389 U. S. 1063, 398 U. S. 971, 401 U. S.
1029, 406 U. S. 1005, 441 U. S. 973, 475 U. S. 1153, 490 U. S. 1125, and 500
U. S. 1007.

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

22, 1993

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court pursuant to Section 2072 of
Title 28, United States Code. While the Court is satisfied
that the required procedures have been observed, this
transmittal does not necessarily indicate that the Court
itself would have proposed these amendments in the form
submitted.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

(Signed)

1060

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 22, 1993
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure be, and
they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments
to Appellate Rules 3, 3.1, 4, 5.1, 6, 10, 12, 15, 25, 28, and 34,
and to Forms 1, 2, and 3.
[See infra, pp. 1063-1074.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Appellate Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1993,
and shall govern all proceedings in appellate cases thereafter
commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in appellate cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United
States Code.

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

Rule 3. Appeal as of right-how taken.
(c) Content of the notice of appeal.-A notice of appeal
must specify the party or parties taking the appeal by naming each appellant in either the caption or the body of the
notice of appeal. An attorney representing more than one
party may fulfill this requirement by describing those parties with such terms as "all plaintiffs," "the defendants,"
"the plaintiffs A, B, et al.," or "all defendants except X." A
notice of appeal filed pro se is filed on behalf of the party
signing the notice and the signer's spouse and minor children, if they are parties, unless the notice of appeal clearly
indicates a contrary intent. In a class action, whether or
not the class has been certified, it is sufficient for the notice
to name one person qualified to bring the appeal as representative of the class. A notice of appeal also must designate the judgment, order, or part thereof appealed from,
and must name the court to which the appeal is taken. An
appeal will not be dismissed for informality of form or title
of the notice of appeal, or for failure to name a party whose
intent to appeal is otherwise clear from the notice. Form 1
in the Appendix of Forms is a suggested form for a notice
of appeal.
(d) Serving the notice of appeal.-The clerk of the district
court shall serve notice of the filing of a notice of appeal by
mailing a copy to each party's counsel of record (apart from
the appellant's), or, if a party is not represented by counsel,
to the party's last known address. The clerk of the district
court shall forthwith send a copy of the notice and of the
docket entries to the clerk of the court of appeals named in
1063

1064

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

the notice. The clerk of the district court shall likewise
send a copy of any later docket entry in the case to the clerk
of the court of appeals. When a defendant appeals in a
criminal case, the clerk of the district court shall also serve
a copy of the notice of appeal upon the defendant, either by
personal service or by mail addressed to the defendant. The
clerk shall note on each copy served the date when the notice
of appeal was filed and, if the notice of appeal was filed in
the manner provided in Rule 4(c) by an inmate confined in
an institution, the date when the clerk received the notice of
appeal. The clerk's failure to serve notice does not affect
the validity of the appeal. Service is sufficient notwithstanding the death of a party or the party's counsel. The
clerk shall note in the docket the names of the parties to
whom the clerk mails copies, with the date of mailing.
Rule 3.1. Appeal from a judgment entered by a magistrate
judge in a civil case.
When the parties consent to a trial before a magistrate
judge under 28 U. S. C. §636(c)(1), any appeal from the judgment must be heard by the court of appeals in accordance
with 28 U. S. C. §636(c)(3), unless the parties consent to an
appeal on the record to a district judge and thereafter, by
petition only, to the court of appeals, in accordance with 28
U. S. C. §636(c)(4). An appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 636(c)(3)
must be taken in identical fashion as an appeal from any
other judgment of the district court.
Rule 4. Appeal as of right-when taken.
(a) Appeal in a civil case.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this
Rule, in a civil case in which an appeal is permitted by
law as of right from a district court to a court of appeals
the notice of appeal required by Rule 3 must be filed
with the clerk of the district court within 30 days after
the date of entry of the judgment or order appealed
from; but if the United States or an officer or agency

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1065

thereof is a party, the notice of appeal may be filed by
any party within 60 days after such entry. If a notice
of appeal is mistakenly filed in the court of appeals, the
clerk of the court of appeals shall note thereon the date
when the clerk received the notice and send it to the
clerk of the district court and the notice will be treated
as filed in the district court on the date so noted.
(2) A notice of appeal filed after the court announces
a decision or order but before the entry of the judgment
or order is treated as filed on the date of and after the
entry.
(3) If one party timely files a notice of appeal, any
other party, may file a notice of appeal within 14 days
after the date when the first notice was filed, or within
the time otherwise prescribed by this Rule 4(a), whichever period last expires.
(4) If any party makes a timely motion of a type specified immediately below, the time for appeal for all parties runs from the entry of the order disposing of the
last such motion outstanding. This provision applies
to a timely motion under the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure:
(A) for judgment under Rule 50(b);
(B) to amend or make additional findings of fact
under Rule 52(b), whether or not granting the motion would alter the judgment;
(C) to alter or amend the judgment under Rule
59;
(D) for attorney's fees under Rule 54 if a district
court under Rule 58 extends the time for appeal;
(E) for a new trial under Rule 59; or
(F) for relief under Rule 60 if the motion is
served within 10 days after the entry of judgment.
A notice of appeal filed after announcement or entry
of the judgment but before disposition of any of the
above motions is ineffective to appeal from the judgment or order, or part thereof, specified in the notice of
appeal, until the date of the entry of the order disposing

1066

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

of the last such motion outstanding. Appellate review
of an order disposing of any of the above motions requires the party, in compliance with Appellate Rule 3(c),
to amend a previously filed notice of appeal. A party
intending to challenge an alteration or amendment of
the judgment shall file an amended notice of appeal
within the time prescribed by this Rule 4 measured
from the entry of the order disposing of the last such
motion outstanding. No additional fees will be required
for filing an amended notice.
(b) Appeal in a criminal case.-In a criminal case, a defendant shall file the notice of appeal in the district court
within 10 days after the entry either of the judgment or
order appealed from, or of a notice of appeal by the Government. A notice of appeal filed after the announcement of a
decision, sentence, or order-but before entry of the judgment or order-is treated as filed on the date of and after
the entry. If a defendant makes a timely motion specified
immediately below, in accordance with the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure, an appeal from a judgment of conviction
must be taken within 10 days after the entry of the order
disposing of the last such motion outstanding, or within 10
days after the entry of the judgment of conviction, whichever
is later. This provision applies to a timely motion:
(1) for judgment of acquittal;
(2) for arrest of judgment;
(3) for a new trial on any ground other than newly
discovered evidence; or
(4) for a new trial based on the ground of newly discovered evidence if the motion is made before or within
10 days after entry of the judgment.
A notice of appeal filed after the court announces a decision, sentence, or order but before it disposes of any of the
above motions, is ineffective until the date of the entry of
the order disposing of the last such motion outstanding, or
until the date of the entry of the judgment of conviction,

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1067

whichever is later. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
3(c), a valid notice of appeal is effective without amendment
to appeal from an order disposing of any of the above motions. When an appeal by the government is authorized by
statute, the notice of appeal must be filed in the district court
within 30 days after (i) the entry of the judgment or order
appealed from or (ii) the filing of a notice of appeal by any
defendant.
A judgment or order is entered within the meaning of this
subdivision when it is entered on the criminal docket. Upon
a showing of excusable neglect, the district court may-before or after the time has expired, with or without motion
and notice-extend the time for filing a notice of appeal for
a period not to exceed 30 days from the expiration of the
time otherwise prescribed by this subdivision.
The filing of a notice of appeal under this Rule 4(b) does
not divest a district court of jurisdiction to correct a sentence
under Fed. R. Crim. P. 35(c), nor does the filing of a motion
under Fed. R. Crim. P. 35(c) affect the validity of a notice of
appeal filed before entry of the order disposing of the motion.
(c) Appeal by an inmate confined in an institution.-If
an inmate confined in an institution files a notice of appeal in
either a civil case or a criminal case, the notice of appeal is
timely filed if it is deposited in the institution's internal mail
system on or before the last day for filing. Timely filing
may be shown by a notarized statement or by a declaration
(in compliance with 28 U. S. C. § 1746) setting forth the date
of deposit and stating that first-class postage has been prepaid. In a civil case in which the first notice of appeal is
filed in the manner provided in this subdivision (c), the 14day period provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this Rule 4 for
another party to file a notice of appeal runs from the date
when the district court receives the first notice of appeal.
In a criminal case in which a defendant files a notice of
appeal in the manner provided in this subdivision (c), the
30-day period for the government to file its notice of appeal
runs from the entry of the judgment or order appealed from

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

or from the district court's receipt of the defendant's notice
of appeal.
Rule 5.1. Appeal by permission under 28 U. S. C.
§ 636(c) (5).
(a) Petition for leave to appeal; answer or cross petition.-An appeal from a district court judgment, entered
after an appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 636(c)(4) to a district judge
from a judgment entered upon direction of a magistrate
judge in a civil case, may be sought by filing a petition for
leave to appeal. An appeal on petition for leave to appeal
is not a matter of right, but its allowance is a matter of sound
judicial discretion. The petition shall be filed with the clerk
of the court of appeals within the time provided by Rule 4(a)
for filing a notice of appeal, with proof of service on all parties to the action in the district court. A notice of appeal
need not be filed. Within 14 days after service of the petition, a party may file an answer in opposition or a cross
petition.
Rule 6. Appeal in a bankruptcy case from a final judgment,
order, or decree of a district court or of a bankruptcy
appellate panel.
(b) Appeal from a judgment, order or decree of a district
court or bankruptcy appellate panel exercising appellate
jurisdictionin a bankruptcy case.
(2) Additional rules.-In addition to the rules made
applicable by subsection (b)(1) of this rule, the following
rules shall apply to an appeal to a court of appeals pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 158(d) from a final judgment, order
or decree of a district court or of a bankruptcy appellate
panel exercising appellate jurisdiction pursuant to 28
U. S. C. § 158(a) or (b):
(i) Effect of a motion for rehearing on the time
for appeal.-If any party files a timely motion for

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1069

rehearing under Bankruptcy Rule 8015 in the district court or the bankruptcy appellate panel, the
time for appeal to the court of appeals for all parties
runs from the entry of the order disposing of the
motion. A notice of appeal filed after announcement or entry of the district court's or bankruptcy
appellate panel's judgment, order, or decree, but
before disposition of the motion for rehearing, is ineffective until the date of the entry of the order
disposing of the motion for rehearing. Appellate
review of the order disposing of the motion requires
the party, in compliance with Appellate Rules 3(c)
and 6(b)(1)(ii), to amend a previously filed notice of
appeal. A party intending to challenge an alteration or amendment of the judgment, order, or decree shall file an amended notice of appeal within
the time prescribed by Rule 4, excluding 4(a)(4) and
4(b), measured from the entry of the order disposing
of the motion. No additional fees will be required
for filing the amended notice.
Rule 10. The record on appeal.
(b) The transcript of proceedings; duty of appellant to
order; notice to appellee if partial transcriptis ordered.
(3) Unless the entire transcript is to be included, the
appellant shall, within the 10-day time provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this Rule 10, file a statement of the issues
the appellant intends to present on the appeal, and shall
serve on the appellee a copy of the order or certificate
and of the statement. An appellee who believes that a
transcript of other parts of the proceedings is necessary
shall, within 10 days after the service of the order or
certificate and the statement of the appellant, file and
serve on the appellant a designation of additional parts
to be included. Unless within 10 days after service of

1070

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

the designation the appellant has ordered such parts,
and has so notified the appellee, the appellee may within
the following 10 days either order the parts or move in
the district court for an order requiring the appellant to
do so.
Rule 12. Docketing the appeal;filinga representationstatement;filing the record.
(b) Filing a representationstatement.-Within 10 days
after filing a notice of appeal, unless another time is designated by the court of appeals, the attorney who filed the
notice of appeal shall file with the clerk of the court of appeals a statement naming each party represented on appeal
by that attorney.
(c) Filing the record, partialrecord, or certificate.-Upon
receipt of the record transmitted pursuant to Rule 11(b), or
the partial record transmitted pursuant to Rule 11(e), (f), or
(g), or the clerk's certificate under Rule 11(c), the clerk of
the court of appeals shall file it and shall immediately give
notice to all parties of the date on which it was filed.
Rule 15. Review or enforcement of an agency order-how
obtained; intervention.
(a) Petitionfor review of order; joint petition.-Review
of an order of an administrative agency, board, commission,
or officer (hereinafter, the term "agency" will include agency,
board, commission, or officer) must be obtained by filing with
the clerk of a court of appeals that is authorized to review
such order, within the time prescribed by law, a petition to
enjoin, set aside, suspend, modify, or otherwise review, or a
notice of appeal, whichever form is indicated by the applicable statute (hereinafter, the term "petition for review" will
include a petition to enjoin, set aside, suspend, modify, or
otherwise review, or a notice of appeal). The petition must
name each party seeking review either in the caption or in
the body of the petition. Use of such terms as "et al.," or

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

"petitioners," or "respondents" is not effective to name the
parties. The petition also must designate the respondent
and the order or part thereof to be reviewed. Form 3 in the
Appendix of Forms is a suggested form of a petition for review. In each case the agency must be named respondent.
The United States will also be a respondent if required by
statute, even though not designated in the petition. If two
or more persons are entitled to petition the same court for
review of the same order and their interests are such as to
make joinder practicable, they may file a joint petition for
review and may thereafter proceed as a single petitioner.
(e) Payment of fees.-When filing any separate or joint
petition for review in a court of appeals, the petitioner must
pay the clerk of the court of appeals the fees established by
statute, and also the docket fee prescribed by the Judicial
Conference of the United States.
Rule 25. Filing and service.
(a) Filing.-Papersrequired or permitted to be filed in a
court of appeals must be filed with the clerk. Filing may be
accomplished by mail addressed to the clerk, but filing is not
timely unless the clerk receives the papers within the time
fixed for filing, except that briefs and appendices are treated
as filed on the day of mailing if the most expeditious form of
delivery by mail, except special delivery, is used. Papers
filed by an inmate confined in an institution are timely filed
if deposited in the institution's internal mail system on or
before the last day for filing. Timely filing of papers by an
inmate confined in an institution may be shown by a notarized statement or declaration (in compliance with 28 U. S. C.
§ 1746) setting forth the date of deposit and stating that firstclass postage has been prepaid. If a motion requests relief
that may be granted by a single judge, the judge may permit
the motion to be filed with the judge, in which event the
judge shall note thereon the date of filing and thereafter give
it to the clerk. A court of appeals may, by local rule, permit

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1072

papers to be filed by facsimile or other electronic means, provided such means are authorized by and consistent with
standards established by the Judicial Conference of the
United States.
Rule 28. Briefs.
(a) Appellant's brief-The brief of the appellant must
contain, under appropriate headings and in the order here
indicated:
(5) An argument.-The argument may be preceded
by a summary. The argument must contain the contentions of the appellant on the issues presented, and the
reasons therefor, with citations to the authorities, statutes, and parts of the record relied on. The argument
must also include for each issue a concise statement of
the applicable standard of review; this statement may
appear in the discussion of each issue or under a separate heading placed before the discussion of the issues.
(b) Appellee's brief.-The brief of the appellee must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)-(5), except
that none of the following need appear unless the appellee is
dissatisfied with the statement of the appellant:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

the
the
the
the

jurisdictional statement;
statement of the issues;
statement of the case;
statement of the standard of review.

Rule 34. Oral argument.
(c) Orderand content of argument.-The appellant is entitled to open and conclude the argument. Counsel may not
read at length from briefs, records, or authorities.

1073

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

APPENDIX OF FORMS
FORM

1.

NOTICE OF APPEAL TO A COURT OF APPEALS FROM A JUDGMENT
OR ORDER OF A DISTRICT COURT

United States District Court for the
File Number

District of

A. B., Plaintiff
v.
Notice of Appeal
C. D., Defendant I
Notice is hereby given that

(here name all parties taking the appeal),

(plaintiffs)

(defendants) in the above named case,* hereby appeal to the United States
Court of Appeals for the
Circuit (from the final judgment)
(from an order (describing it)) entered in this action on the
day
of

,19

.
(s)
Attorney for
Address:

*See Rule 3(c) for permissible ways of identifying appellants.
FORM 2. NOTICE OF APPEAL TO A COURT OF APPEALS FROM A DECISION
OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT

UNITED STATES TAX COURT
Washington, D. C.
A. B., Petitioner
v.

Docket No.

Commissioner of Internal

Revenue, Respondent
Notice of Appeal
Notice is hereby given that

(here name all parties taking the appeal)*

hereby

appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the

Circuit from (that part of) the decision of this court entered in the above
captioned proceeding on the - day of
,19(relating
to

(s)
Counsel for
Address:

*See Rule 3(c) for permissible ways of identifying appellants.

1074

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

FORM 3. PETITION FOR REVIEW OF ORDER OF AN AGENCY, BOARD,
COMMISSION OR OFFICER
United States Court of Appeals for the

A. B., Petitioner
v.
i
XYZ Commission ,
Respondent

Circuit

Petition for Review
I

(here name all parties bringing the petition)* hereby petition the court for review
of the Order of the XYZ Commission (describe the order) entered on
,19

-

.
(s)

Address:
*See Rule 15.

Attorney for Petitioners

