OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus

CITY OF CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK,
INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 91-1200. Argued November 9, 1992-Decided March 24, 1993
In 1989, petitioner city authorized respondent companies to place 62 freestanding newsracks on public property for the purpose of distributing
free magazines that consisted primarily of advertisements for respondents' services. In 1990, motivated by its interest in the safety and
attractive appearance of its streets and sidewalks, the city revoked
respondents' permits on the ground that the magazines were "commercial handbill[s]," whose distribution on public property was prohibited
by a pre-existing ordinance. In respondents' ensuing lawsuit, the
District Court concluded that this categorical ban violated the First
Amendment under the "reasonable fit" standard applied to the regulation of commercial speech in Board of Trustees of State University of
N. Y v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469. The Court of Appeals affirmed.
Held: The city's selective and categorical ban on the distribution, via
newsrack, of "commercial handbills" is not consistent with the dictates
of the First Amendment. Pp. 416-431.
(a) The record amply supports the conclusion that the city has not
met its burden of establishing a "reasonable fit" between its legitimate
interests in safety and esthetics and the means it chose to serve those
interests. The ordinance's outdated prohibition of handbill distribution
was enacted long before any concern about newsracks developed, for
the apparent purpose of preventing the kind of visual blight caused by
littering, rather than any harm associated with permanent, freestanding dispensing devices. The fact that the city failed to address its
recently developed concern about newsracks by regulating their size,
shape, appearance, or number indicates that it has not "carefully calculated" the costs and benefits associated with the burden on speech imposed by its prohibition. See Fox, 492 U. S., at 480. The lower courts
correctly ruled that the benefit to be derived from the removal of 62
newsracks out of a total of 1,500-2,000 on public property was small.
Pp. 416-418.
(b) The Court rejects the city's argument that, because every decrease in the overall number of newsracks on its sidewalks necessarily
effects an increase in safety and an improvement in the attractiveness
of the cityscape, there is a close fit between its ban on newsracks

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)

Syllabus
dispensing "commercial handbills" and its interests in safety and esthetics. This argument is premised upon the distinction the city has drawn
between commercial speech such as respondents', which is viewed as
having only a low value, and the assertedly more valuable noncommercial speech of "newspapers," whose distribution on public land is specifically authorized by separate provisions of the city code. The argument attaches more importance to that distinction than the Court's
cases warrant and seriously underestimates the value of commercial
speech. Moreover, because commercial and noncommercial publications are equally responsible for the safety concerns and visual blight
that motivated the city, the distinction bears no relationship whatsoever
to the admittedly legitimate interests asserted by the city and is an
impermissible means of responding to those interests. Thus, on this
record, the city has failed to make a showing that would justify its
differential treatment of the two types of newsracks. Pp. 418-428.
(c) Because the city's regulation of newsracks is predicated on the
difference in content between ordinary newspapers and commercial
speech, it is not content neutral and cannot qualify as a valid time,
place, or manner restriction on protected speech. See, e. g., Ward v.
Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 791. Pp. 428-431.
946 F. 2d 464, affirmed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BLACKMUN,

and SOUTER, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J.,
filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 431. REHNQUIST, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which WHITE and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p. 438.
O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY,

Mark S. Yurick argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs was Fay D. Dupuis.
Marc D. Mezibov argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief was Martha K. Landesberg.*
*Richard Ruda, Michael G. Dzialo, and Peter Buscemi filed a brief for
the U. S. Conference of Mayors et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Advertising Federation et al. by Richard E. Wiley, Lawrence W Secrest III, Howard H. Bell, John F Kamp, David S. Versfelt, Robert J
Levering, and Valerie Schulte; for the Association of National Advertisers, Inc., et al. by Burt Neuborne, Gilbert H. Weil, Randolph Z. Volkell,
John F Kamp, David Versfelt, Jan S. Amundson, Quentin Riegel, and
Edward Dunkelberger; for the Institute for Justice by William H. Mellor
III and Clint Bolick; for the Learning Resources Network by Bruce R.

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.

Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Motivated by its interest in the safety and attractive appearance of its streets and sidewalks, the city of Cincinnati
has refused to allow respondents to distribute their commercial publications through freestanding newsracks located on
public property. The question presented is whether this refusal is consistent with the First Amendment.' In agreement with the District Court and the Court of Appeals, we
hold that it is not.
I
Respondent Discovery Network, Inc., is engaged in the
business of providing adult educational, recreational, and social programs to individuals in the Cincinnati area. It advertises those programs in a free magazine that it publishes
nine times a year. Although these magazines consist primarily of promotional material pertaining to Discovery's
courses, they also include some information about current
events of general interest. Approximately one-third of
these magazines are distributed through the 38 newsracks
that the city authorized Discovery to place on public property in 1989.
Respondent Harmon Publishing Company, Inc., publishes
and distributes a free magazine that advertises real estate
for sale at various locations throughout the United States.
The magazine contains listings and photographs of available
Stewart; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by Charles Fried,
Richard Willard, Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. Samp.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the City of New York by 0. Peter

Sherwood, Leonard Koerner, and Paul T Rephen; and for the American
Newspaper Publishers Association et al. by P Cameron DeVore, Marshall
J Nelson, John F.Sturm, Ren4 Milam, Harold W. Fuson, Jr., David M.
Olive, Richard J Tofel, BarbaraW Wall, and Peter Stone.

'The First Amendment provides, in part: "Congress shall make no
law . . . abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press .... ." The Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment has been construed to
make this prohibition applicable to state action. See, e. g., Stromberg v.
California,283 U. S. 359 (1931); Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444 (1938).

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

residential properties in the greater Cincinnati area, and
also includes some information about interest rates, market
trends, and other real estate matters. In 1989, Harmon
received the city's permission to install 24 newsracks at
approved locations. About 15% of its distribution in the
Cincinnati area is through those devices.
In March 1990, the city's Director of Public Works notified
each of the respondents that its permit to use dispensing
devices on public property was revoked, and ordered the
newsracks removed within 30 days. Each notice explained
that respondent's publication was a "commercial handbill"
within the meaning of § 714-1-C of the Municipal Code 2 and
therefore §714-23 of the code 3 prohibited its distribution on
public property. Respondents were granted administrative
hearings and review by the Sidewalk Appeals Committee.
Although the Committee did not modify the city's position,
2That section provides:

"'Commercial Handbill' shall mean any printed or written matter, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
"(a) Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing; or
"(b) Which directs attention to any businems or mercantile or commercial establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of directly promoting
the interest thereof by sales; or
"(c) Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee
is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit." Cincinnati Municipal Code § 714-1-C (1992).
' That section provides:
"No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or non-commercial
handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the
city. Nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial
handbill in any public place. Provided, however, that it shall not be
unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city for
any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, any non-commercial handbill to any person willing to accept it,
except within or around the city hall building." § 714-23.

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

it agreed to allow the dispensing devices to remain in place
pending a judicial determination of the constitutionality of
its prohibition. Respondents then commenced this litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio.
After an evidentiary hearing the District Court concluded
that "the regulatory scheme advanced by the City of Cincinnati completely prohibiting the distribution of commercial
handbills on the public right of way violates the First
Amendment." 4 The court found that both publications were
"commercial speech" entitled to First Amendment protection because they concerned lawful activity and were not
misleading. While it recognized that a city "may regulate
publication dispensing devices pursuant to its substantial interest in promoting safety and esthetics on or about the
public right of way," 5 the District Court held, relying on
Board of Trustees of State University of N. Y v. Fox, 492
U. S. 469 (1989), that the city had the burden of establishing
"a reasonable 'fit' between the legislature's ends and the
means chosen to accomplish those ends." App. to Pet. for
Cert. 23a. (quoting Fox, 492 U. S., at 480). It explained
that the "fit" in this case was unreasonable because the
number of newsracks dispensing commercial handbills was
"minute" compared with the total number (1,500-2,000) on
the public right of way, and because they affected public
safety in only a minimal way. Moreover, the practices in
other communities indicated that the city's safety and esthetic interests could be adequately protected "by regulating
the size, shape, number or placement of such devices."
6
App. to Pet. for Cert. 24a.
4 App. to Pet. for Cert. 25a.

66 Id., at 23a.
"Such regulation," the District Court noted, "allows [a] city to control
the visual effect of the devices and to keep them from interfering with
public safety without completely prohibiting the speech in question." Id.,
at 24a.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

On appeal, the city argued that since a number of courts
had held that a complete ban on the use of newsracks dispensing traditional newspapers would be unconstitutional, 7
and that the "Constitution ... accords a lesser protection to
commercial speech than to other constitutionally guaranteed
expression," Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y, 447 U. S. 557, 563 (1980), its preferential treatment of newspapers over commercial publications was a permissible method of serving its legitimate interest in ensuring safe streets and regulating visual blight. 8
The Court of Appeals disagreed, holding that the lesser status of commercial speech is relevant only when its regulation
was designed either to prevent false or misleading advertising, or to alleviate distinctive adverse effects of the specific
speech at issue. Because Cincinnati sought to regulate only
the "manner" in which respondents' publications were distributed, as opposed to their content or any harm caused by
their content, the court reasoned that respondents' publications had "high value" for purposes of the Fox "reasonable
fit" test. 946 F. 2d 464, 471 (CA6 1991) (italics omitted).
Applying that test, the Court of Appeals agreed with the
District Court that the burden placed on speech "cannot be
justified by the paltry gains in safety and beauty achieved
by the ordinance." Ibid.9 The importance of the Court of
I See Sentinel Communications Co. v. Watts, 936 F. 2d 1189, 1196-1197
(CAll 1991), and cases cited therein.
8 In the words of the Court of Appeals:
"This 'lesser protection' afforded commercial speech is crucial to Cincin-

nati's argument on appeal. Cincinnati argues that placing the entire burden of achieving its goal of safer streets and a more harmonious landscape
on commercial speech is justified by this lesser protection." 946 F. 2d
464, 469 (CA6 1991). See also id., at 471 ("The [city's] defense of that
ordinance rests solely on the low value allegedly accorded to commercial
speech in general").

'The Court of Appeals also noted that the general ban on the distribution of handbills had been on the books long before the newsrack problem
arose. Id., at 473.

416

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Appeals decision, together with the dramatic growth in the
use of newsracks throughout the country, ° prompted our
grant of certiorari. 503 U. S. 918 (1992).
II
There is no claim in this case that there is anything unlawful or misleading about the contents of respondents' publications. Moreover, respondents do not challenge their characterization as "commercial speech." Nor do respondents
question the substantiality of the city's interest in safety and
esthetics. It was, therefore, proper for the District Court
and the Court of Appeals to judge the validity of the city's
prohibition under the standards we set forth in Central Hudson and Fox." It was the city's burden to establish a "reasonable fit" between its legitimate interests in safety and
esthetics and its choice of a limited and selective prohibition
2
of newsracks as the means chosen to serve those interests.
10We

are advised that almost half of the single copy sales of newspapers
are now distributed through newsracks. See Brief for American Newspaper Publishers Association et al. as Amici Curiae 2.
11While the Court of Appeals ultimately applied the standards set forth
in Central Hudson and Fox, its analysis at least suggested that those
standards might not apply to the type of regulation at issue in this case.
For if commercial speech is entitled to "lesser protection" only when the
regulation is aimed at either the content of the speech or the particular
adverse effects stemming from that content, it would seem to follow that a
regulation that is not so directed should be evaluated under the standards
applicable to regulations on fully protected speech, not the more lenient
standards by which we judge regulations on commercial speech. Because
we conclude that Cincinnati's ban on commercial newsracks cannot withstand scrutiny under Central Hudson and Fox, we need not decide
whether that policy should be subjected to more exacting review.
12As we stated in Fox:
"[W]hile we have insisted that the free flow of commercial information is
valuable enough to justify imposing on would-be regulators the costs of
distinguishing . . . the harmless from the harmful, we have not gone
so far as to impose upon them the burden of demonstrating that the
distinguishment is 100% complete, or that the manner of restriction is
absolutely the least severe that will achieve the desired end. What our

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)

Opinion of the Court

There is ample support in the record for the conclusion
that the city did not "establish the reasonable fit we require." Fox, 492 U. S., at 480. The ordinance on which it
relied was an outdated prohibition against the distribution
of any commercial handbills on public property. It was enacted long before any concern about newsracks developed.
Its apparent purpose was to prevent the kind of visual blight
caused by littering, rather than any harm associated with
permanent, freestanding dispensing devices. The fact that
the city failed to address its recently developed concern
about newsracks by regulating their size, shape, appearance, or number indicates that it has not "carefully calculated" the costs and benefits associated with the burden on
speech imposed by its prohibition. 8 The benefit to be dedecisions require is a 'fit' between the legislature's ends and the means
chosen to accomplish those ends-a fit that is not necessarily perfect, but
reasonable; that represents not necessarily the single best disposition but
one whose scope is in proportion to the interest served; that employs not
necessarily the least restrictive means but, as we have put it in the other
contexts discussed above, a means narrowly tailored to achieve the desired objective. Within those bounds we leave it to governmental decisionmakers to judge what manner of regulation may best be employed....
"Here we require the government goal to be substantial, and the cost to
be carefully calculated. Moreover, since the State bears the burden of
justifying its restrictions, it must affirmatively establish the reasonable
fit we require." 492 U. S., at 480 (internal quotation marks and citations
omitted).
"We reject the city's argument that the lower courts' and our consideration of alternative, less drastic measures by which the city could effectuate its interests in safety and esthetics somehow violates Fox's holding
that regulations on commercial speech are not subject to "leastrestrictive-means" analysis. To repeat, see n. 12, supra, while we have
rejected the "least-restrictive-means" test for judging restrictions on
commercial speech, so too have we rejected mere rational-basis review.
A regulation need not be "absolutely the least severe that will achieve
the desired end," Fox, 492 U. S., at 480, but if there are numerous and
obvious less-burdensome alternatives to the restriction on commercial
speech, that is certainly a relevant consideration in determining whether
the "fit" between ends and means is reasonable.

418

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

rived from the removal of 62 newsracks while about 1,5002,000 remain in place was considered "minute" by the District Court and "paltry" by the Court of Appeals. We share
their evaluation of the "fit" between the city's goal and its
method of achieving it.
In seeking reversal, the city argues that it is wrong to
focus attention on the relatively small number of newsracks
affected by its prohibition, because the city's central concern
is with the overall number of newsracks on its sidewalks,
rather than with the unattractive appearance of a handful
of dispensing devices. It contends, first, that a categorical
prohibition on the use of newsracks to disseminate commercial messages burdens no more speech than is necessary to
further its interest in limiting the number of newsracks;
and, second, that the prohibition is a valid "time, place, and
manner" regulation because it is content neutral and leaves
open ample alternative channels of communication. We
consider these arguments in turn.
III
The city argues that there is a close fit between its ban on
newsracks dispensing "commercial handbills" and its interests in safety and esthetics because every decrease in the
number of such dispensing devices necessarily effects an
increase in safety and an improvement in the attractiveness
of the cityscape. In the city's view, the prohibition is thus
entirely related to its legitimate interests in safety and
esthetics.
We accept the validity of the city's proposition, but consider it an insufficient justification for the discrimination
against respondents' use of newsracks that are no more
harmful than the permitted newsracks, and have only a minimal impact on the overall number of newsracks on the city's
sidewalks. The major premise supporting the city's argument is the proposition that commercial speech has only a

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)

Opinion of the Court

low value. Based on that premise, the city contends that
the fact that assertedly more valuable publications are allowed to use newsracks does not undermine its judgment
that its esthetic and safety interests are stronger than the
interest in allowing commercial speakers to have similar access to the reading public.
We cannot agree. In our view, the city's argument attaches more importance to the distinction between commercial and noncommercial speech than our cases warrant and
seriously underestimates the value of commercial speech.
This very case illustrates the difficulty of drawing bright
lines that will clearly cabin commercial speech in a distinct
category. For respondents' publications share important
characteristics with the publications that the city classifies
as "newspapers." Particularly, they are "commercial handbills" within the meaning of § 714-1-C of the city's code
because they contain advertising, a feature that apparently
14
also places ordinary newspapers within the same category.
Separate provisions in the code specifically authorize the distribution of "newspapers" on the public right of way, but
that term is not defined. 15 Presumably, respondents' publications do not qualify as newspapers because an examination
of their content discloses a higher ratio of advertising to
other text, such as news and feature stories, than is found
in the exempted publications.1 6 Indeed, Cincinnati's City
14 See n. 2, supra.

16Cincinnati Municipal Code § 862-1 (1992) provides:

"Permission is hereby granted to any person or persons lawfully authorized to engage in the business of selling newspapers to occupy space on
the sidewalks of city streets for selling newspapers, either in the morning
or afternoon, where permission has been obtained from the owner or
tenant of the adjoining building."
16Some ordinary newspapers try to maintain a ratio of 70% advertising
to 30% editorial content. See generally C. Fink, Strategic Newspaper
Management 43 (1988).

420

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Manager has determined that publications that qualify as
newspapers and therefore can be distributed by newsrack
are those that are published daily and/or weekly and "primarily presen[ti coverage of, and commentary on, current
events." App. 230 (emphasis added).
The absence of a categorical definition of the difference
between "newspapers" and "commercial handbills" in the
city's code is also a characteristic of our opinions considering the constitutionality of regulations of commercial speech.
Fifty years ago, we concluded that the distribution of a commercial handbill was unprotected by the First Amendment,
even though half of its content consisted of political protest.
Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52 (1942). A few years
later, over Justice Black's dissent, we held that the "commercial feature" of door-to-door solicitation of magazine subscriptions was a sufficient reason for denying First Amendment protection to that activity. Breard v. Alexandria, 341
U. S. 622 (1951). Subsequent opinions, however, recognized that important commercial attributes of various forms
of communication do not qualify their entitlement to constitutional protection. Thus, in Virginia State Bd. of Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425 U. S.
748 (1976), we explained:
"We begin with several propositions that already are
settled or beyond serious dispute. It is clear, for example, that speech does not lose its First Amendment
protection because money is spent to project it, as in a
paid advertisement of one form or another. Buckley v.
Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 35-59 (1976); Pittsburgh Press Co.
v. Human Relations Comm'n, 413 U. S., at 384; New
York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S., at 266. Speech
likewise is protected even though it is carried in a form
that is 'sold' for profit, Smith v. California, 361 U. S.
147, 150 (1959) (books); Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson,
343 U. S.495, 501 (1952) (motion pictures); Murdock v.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

Pennsylvania, 319 U.S., at 111 (religious literature),

and even though it may involve a solicitation to purchase or otherwise pay or contribute money. New York
Times Co. v. Sullivan, supra; NAACP v. Button, 371
U. S. 415, 429 (1963); Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S., at
417; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 306-307
(1940).
"If there is a kind of commercial speech that lacks
all First Amendment protection, therefore it must be

distinguished by its content. Yet the speech whose
content deprives it of protection cannot simply be
speech on a commercial subject. No one would contend

that our pharmacist may be prevented from being heard
on the subject of whether, in general, pharmaceutical
prices should be regulated, or their advertisement for-

bidden.

Nor can it be dispositive that a commercial

advertisement is noneditorial, and merely reports a
fact. Purely factual matter of public interest may
claim protection. Bigelow v. Virginia, 421 U. S., at
822; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 102 (1940)."
Id., at 761-762.

We then held that even speech that does no more than propose a commercial transaction is protected by the First
Amendment. Id., at 762.1
17

JUSTICE BLACKMUN, writing for the Court in Bates v. State Bar of

Arizona, 433 U. S. 350 (1977), summarized the reasons for extending First
Amendment protection to "core" commercial speech:
"The listener's interest [in commercial speech] is substantial: the consumer's concern for the free flow of commercial speech often may be far
keener than his concern for urgent political dialogue. Moreover, significant societal interests are served by such speech. Advertising, though
entirely commercial, may often carry information of import to significant
issues of the day. See Bigelow v. Virginia, 421 U. S. 809 (1975). And
commercial speech serves to inform the public of the availability, nature,
and prices of products and services, and thus performs an indispensable
role in the allocation of resources in a free enterprise system. See FTC

422

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

In later opinions we have stated that speech proposing a
commercial transaction is entitled to lesser protection than
other constitutionally guaranteed expression. See Ohralik
v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S. 447, 455-456 (1978). We
have also suggested that such lesser protection was appropriate for a somewhat larger category of commercial
speech-"that is, expression related solely to the economic
interests of the speaker and its audience." Central Hudson
Gas & Electric Corp. v. Public Service Comm'n of New York,
447 U. S., at 561. We did not, however, use that definition
in either Bolger v. Youngs Drug Products Corp., 463 U. S.
60 (1983), or in Board of Trustees of State University of N. Y
v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469 (1989).
In the Bolger case we held that a federal statute prohibiting the mailing of unsolicited advertisements for contraceptives could not be applied to the appellee's promotional materials. Most of the appellee's mailings consisted primarily
of price and quantity information, and thus fell "within the
core notion of commercial speech-'speech which does "no
more than propose a commercial transaction.""' Bolger,
463 U. S., at 66 (quoting Virginia Pharmacy, 425 U. S., at
762, in turn quoting Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh
Comm'n on Human Relations, 413 U. S. 376, 385 (1973)).
Relying in part on the appellee's economic motivation, the
Court also answered the "closer question" about the proper
v. Procter & Gamble Co., 386 U. S. 568, 603-604 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring). In short, such speech serves individual and societal interests
in assuring informed and reliable decisionmaking." Id., at 364.
Of course, we were not the first to recognize the value of commercial
speech:
"'[Advertisements] are well calculated to enlarge and enlighten the public
mind, and are worthy of being enumerated among the many methods of
awakening and maintaining the popular attention, with which more modern times, beyond all preceding example, abound."' D. Boorstin, The
Americans: The Colonial Experience 328, 415 (1958), quoting I. Thomas,
History of Printing in America with a Biography of Printers, and an
Account of Newspapers (2d ed. 1810).

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

label for informational pamphlets that were concededly advertisements referring to a specific product, and concluded
that they also were "commercial speech." 463 U. S., at
66-67. It is noteworthy that in reaching that conclusion we
did not simply apply the broader definition of commercial
speech advanced in Central Hudson-a definition that obviously would have encompassed the mailings-but rather "examined [them] carefully to ensure that speech deserving of
greater constitutional protection is not inadvertently suppressed." 463 U. S., at 66.18 In Fox, we described the category even more narrowly, by characterizing the proposal of
a commercial transaction as "the test for identifying commercial speech." 492 U. S., at 473-474 (emphasis added).
Under the Fox test it is clear that much of the material in
ordinary newspapers is commercial speech and, conversely,
that the editorial content in respondents' promotional publications is not what we have described as "core" commercial
speech. There is no doubt a "commonsense" basis for distinguishing between the two, but under both the city's code and
our cases the difference is a matter of degree. 19
18

When the Court first advanced the broader definition of commercial
speech, a similar concern had been expressed. See Central Hudson, 447
U. S., at 579 (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment).
'9 We note that because Cincinnati's regulatory scheme depends on a
governmental determination as to whether a particular publication is a
"commercial handbill" or a "newspaper," it raises some of the same concerns as the newsrack ordinance struck down in Lakewood v. PlainDealer
Publishing Co., 486 U. S. 750 (1988). The ordinance at issue in Lakewood
vested in the mayor authority to grant or deny a newspaper's application
for a newsrack permit, but contained no explicit limit on the scope of the
mayor's discretion. The Court struck down the ordinance, reasoning
that a licensing scheme that vests such unbridled discretion in a government official may result in either content or viewpoint censorship. Id.,
at 757, 769-770. Similarly, because the distinction between a "newspaper" and a "commercial handbill" is by no means clear--as noted above,
the city deems a "newspaper" as a publication "primarily presenting
coverage of, and commentary on, current events," App. 230 (emphasis
added)-the responsibility for distinguishing between the two carries with

424

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Nevertheless, for the purpose of deciding this case, we assume that all of the speech barred from Cincinnati's sidewalks is what we have labeled "core" commercial speech and
that no such speech is found in publications that are allowed
to use newsracks. We nonetheless agree with the Court of
Appeals that Cincinnati's actions in this case run afoul of the
First Amendment. Not only does Cincinnati's categorical
ban on commercial newsracks place too much importance
on the distinction between commercial and noncommercial
speech, but in this case, the distinction bears no relationship
whatsoever to the particular interests that the city has asserted. It is therefore an impermissible means of responding to the city's admittedly legitimate interests. Cf. Simon
& Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y State Crime Victims
Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 120 (1991) (distinction drawn by Son of
Sam law between income derived from criminal's descriptions of his crime and other sources "has nothing to do with"
State's interest in transferring proceeds of crime from criminals to victims); Carey v. Brown, 447 U. S. 455, 465 (1980)
(State's interest in residential privacy cannot sustain statute
permitting labor picketing, but prohibiting nonlabor picketit the potential for invidious discrimination of disfavored subjects. See
also Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S. 490, 536-537 (1981) (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment) (ordinance which permits governmental

unit to determine, in the first instance, whether speech is commercial or
noncommercial "entail[s] a substantial exercise of discretion by a city's
official" and therefore "presents a real danger of curtailing noncommercial
speech in the guise of regulating commercial speech"). Cf. Arkansas
Writers' Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481 U. S. 221, 230 (1987) ("In order to
determine whether a magazine is subject to sales tax, Arkansas' enforcement authorities must necessarily examine the content of the message
that is conveyed ....
Such official scrutiny of the content of publications
as the basis for imposing a tax is entirely incompatible with the First
Amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press") (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted).

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)

Opinion of the Court

dising when "nothing in the content-based labor-nonlabor
20
tinction has any bearing whatsoever on privacy").
The city has asserted an interest in esthetics, but respondent publishers' newsracks are no greater an eyesore
than the newsracks permitted to remain on Cincinnati's sidewalks. Each newsrack, whether containing "newspapers"
or "commercial handbills," is equally unattractive. While
there was some testimony in the District Court that commercial publications are distinct from noncommercial publications in their capacity to proliferate, the evidence of such

was exceedingly weak, the Court of Appeals discounted it,
946 F. 2d, at 466-467, and n. 3, and Cincinnati does not
reassert that particular argument in this Court. As we
2 Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S. 490 (1981), upon which the
city heavily relies, is not to the contrary. In that case, a plurality of
the Court found as a permissible restriction on commercial speech a city
ordinance that, for the most part, banned outdoor "offsite" advertising
billboards, but permitted "onsite" advertising signs identifying the owner
of the premises and the goods sold or manufactured on the site. Id., at
494, 503. Unlike this case, which involves discrimination between commercial and noncommercial speech, the "offsite-onsite" distinction involved disparate treatment of two types of commercial speech. Only the
onsite signs served both the commercial and public interest in guiding
potential visitors to their intended destinations; moreover, the plurality
concluded that a "city may believe that offsite advertising, with its periodically changing content, presents a more acute problem than does onsite
advertising," id., at 511-512. Neither of these bases has any application
to the disparate treatment of newsracks in this case.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE is correct that seven Justices in the Metromedia

case were of the view that San Diego could completely ban offsite commercial billboards for reasons unrelated to the content of those billboards.
Post, at 444. Those seven Justices did not say, however, that San Diego
could distinguish between commercial and noncommercial offsite billboards that cause the same esthetic and safety concerns. That question
was not presented in Metromedia, for the regulation at issue in that
case did not draw a distinction between commercial and noncommercial
offsite billboards; with a few exceptions, it essentially banned all offsite
billboards.

426

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

have explained, the city's primary concern, as argued to us,
is with the aggregate number of newsracks on its streets.
On that score, however, all newsracks, regardless of whether
they contain commercial or noncommercial publications, are
equally at fault. In fact, the newspapers are arguably the
greater culprit because of their superior number.
Cincinnati has not asserted an interest in preventing
commercial harms by regulating the information distributed
by respondent publishers' newsracks, which is, of course,
the typical reason why commercial speech can be subject
to greater governmental regulation than noncommercial
speech. See, e.g., Bolger, 463 U.S., at 81 (STEVENS, J.,
concurring in judgment) ("[T]he commercial aspects of a
message may provide a justification for regulation that is not
present when the communication has no commercial character"); Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S., at 455-456
(commercial speech, unlike other varieties of speech, "occurs
in an area traditionally subject to government regulation"). 21
A closer examination of one of the cases we have mentioned, Bolger v. Youngs Drug Products, demonstrates the
fallacy of the city's argument that a reasonable fit is established by the mere fact that the entire burden imposed on
commercial speech by its newsrack policy may in some small
way limit the total number of newsracks on Cincinnati's sidewalks. Here, the city contends that safety concerns and
visual blight may be addressed by a prohibition that distin21 Moreover, the principal reason for drawing a distinction between commercial and noncommercial speech has little, if any, application to a regulation of their distribution practices. As we explained in Bolger: "Advertisers should not be permitted to immunize false or misleading product
information from government regulation simply by including references
to public issues." 463 U. S., at 68. The interest in preventing commercial
harms justifies more intensive regulation of commercial speech than noncommercial speech even when they are intermingled in the same publications. On the other hand, the interest in protecting the free flow of
information and ideas is still present when such expression is found in a
commercial context.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

guishes between commercial and noncommercial publications
that are equally responsible for those problems. In Bolger,
however, in rejecting the Government's reliance on its interest in protecting the public from "offensive" speech, "[we]
specifically declined to recognize a distinction between commercial and noncommercial speech that would render this
interest a sufficient justification for a prohibition of commercial speech." 463 U. S., at 71-72 (citing Carey v. Population
Services International, 431 U. S. 678, 701, n. 28 (1977)).
Moreover, the fact that the regulation "provide[d] only the
most limited incremental support for the interest asserted,"
463 U. S., at 73-that it achieved only a "marginal degree of
protection," ibid., for that interest-supported our holding
that the prohibition was invalid. Finally, in Bolger, as in
this case, the burden on commercial speech was imposed by
denying the speaker access to one method of distributionthere the United States mails, and here the placement of
newsracks on public property-without interfering with alternative means of access to the audience. As then-JUSTICE
REHNQUIST explained in his separate opinion, that fact did
not minimize the significance of the burden:
"[T]he Postal Service argues that Youngs can communicate with the public otherwise than through the mail.
[This argument falls] wide of the mark. A prohibition
on the use of the mails is a significant restriction of
First Amendment rights. We have noted that "'[t]he
United States may give up the Post Office when it sees
fit, but while it carries it on the use of the mails is as
much a part of free speech as the right to use our
tongues."' Blount v. Rizzi, 400 U. S., at 416, quoting
Milwaukee Social Democratic Publishing Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S. 407, 437 (1921) (Holmes, J., dissenting)."
Id., at 79-80 (footnote omitted).
In a similar vein, even if we assume, arguendo, that the
city might entirely prohibit the use of newsracks on public

428

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

property, as long as this avenue of communication remains
open, these devices continue to play a significant role in the
dissemination of protected speech.
In the absence of some basis for distinguishing between
"newspapers" and "commercial handbills" that is relevant to
an interest asserted by the city, we are unwilling to recognize Cincinnati's bare assertion that the "low value" of commercial speech is a sufficient justification for its selective
and categorical ban on newsracks dispensing "commercial
handbills." Our holding, however, is narrow. As should
be clear from the above discussion, we do not reach the
question whether, given certain facts and under certain circumstances, a community might be able to justify differential treatment of commercial and noncommercial newsracks.
We simply hold that on this record Cincinnati has failed to
make such a showing. Because the distinction Cincinnati
has drawn has absolutely no bearing on the interests it has
asserted, we have no difficulty concluding, as did the two
courts below, that the city has not established the "fit" between its goals and its chosen means that is required by our
opinion in Fox. It remains to consider the city's argument
that its prohibition is a permissible time, place, and manner
regulation.
IV
The Court has held that government may impose reasonable restrictions on the time, place, or manner of engaging
in protected speech provided that they are adequately justified "'without reference to the content of the regulated
speech."' Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781,
791 (1989), quoting Clark v. Community for Creative NonViolence, 468 U. S. 288, 293 (1984). Thus, a prohibition
against the use of sound trucks emitting "loud and raucous"
noise in residential neighborhoods is permissible if it applies
equally to music, political speech, and advertising. See gen-

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

erally Kovacs v. Cooper, 336 U. S. 77 (1949). The city contends that its regulation of newsracks qualifies as such a restriction because the interests in safety and esthetics that
it serves are entirely unrelated to the content of respondents'
publications.

Thus, the argument goes, the justificationfor

the regulation is content neutral.
The argument is unpersuasive because the very basis for
the regulation is the difference in content between ordinary
newspapers and commercial speech. True, there is no evidence that the city has acted with animus toward the ideas
contained within respondents' publications, but just last
Term we expressly rejected the argument that "discriminatory ...

treatment is suspect under the First Amendment

only when the legislature intends to suppress certain ideas."
Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y State Crime
Victims Bd., 502 U. S., at 117. Regardless of the mens rea
of the city, it has enacted a sweeping ban on the use of newsracks that distribute "commercial handbills," but not "newspapers." Under the city's newsrack policy, whether any
particular newsrack falls within the ban is determined by
the content of the publication resting inside that newsrack.
Thus, by any commonsense understanding of the term, the
ban in this case is "content based."
Nor are we persuaded that our statements that the test
for whether a regulation is content based turns on the "justification" for the regulation, see, e. g., Ward, 491 U. S., at
791; Clark, 468 U. S., at 293, compel a different conclusion.
We agree with the city that its desire to limit the total
number of newsracks is "justified" by its interests in safety
and esthetics. The city has not, however, limited the number of newsracks; it has limited (to zero) the number of
newsracks distributing commercial publications. As we
have explained, there is no justification for that particular
regulation other than the city's naked assertion that commercial speech has "low value." It is the absence of a neu-

430

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
Opinion of the Court

tral justification for its selective ban on newsracks that
prevents the city from defending its newsrack policy as
content neutral.
By the same reasoning, the city's heavy reliance on Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U. S. 41 (1986), is misplaced. In Renton, a city ordinance imposed particular zoning regulations on movie theaters showing adult films. The
Court recognized that the ordinance did not fall neatly into
the "content-based" or "content-neutral" category in that
"the ordinance treats theaters that specialize in adult films
differently from other kinds of theaters." Id., at 47. We
upheld the regulation, however, largely because it was justified not by an interest in suppressing adult films, but by the
city's concern for the "secondary effects" of such theaters on
the surrounding neighborhoods. Id., at 47-49. In contrast
to the speech at issue in Renton, there are no secondary
effects attributable to respondent publishers' newsracks that
distinguish them from the newsracks Cincinnati permits to
remain on its sidewalks.
In sum, the city's newsrack policy is neither content
neutral nor, as demonstrated in Part III, supra, "narrowly
tailored." Thus, regardless of whether or not it leaves open
ample alternative channels of communication, it cannot be
justified as a legitimate time, place, or manner restriction
on protected speech.
Cincinnati has enacted a sweeping ban that bars from its
sidewalks a whole class of constitutionally protected speech.
As did the District Court and the Court of Appeals, we
conclude that Cincinnati has failed to justify that policy.
The regulation is not a permissible regulation of commercial
speech, for on this record it is clear that the interests that
Cincinnati has asserted are unrelated to any distinction
between "commercial handbills" and "newspapers." Moreover, because the ban is predicated on the content of the
publications distributed by the subject newsracks, it is not a
valid time, place, or manner restriction on protected speech.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring

For these reasons, Cincinnati's categorical ban on the distribution, via newsrack, of "commercial handbills" cannot
be squared with the dictates of the First Amendment.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, concurring.
I agree that Cincinnati's ban on commercial newsracks
cannot withstand scrutiny under Central Hudson Gas &
Electric Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y, 447 U. S.
557 (1980), and Board of Trustees of State University of N. Y
v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469 (1989), and I therefore join the Court's
opinion. I write separately because I continue to believe
that the analysis set forth in Central Hudson and refined
in Fox affords insufficient protection for truthful, noncoercive commercial speech concerning lawful activities. In
Central Hudson, I expressed the view that "intermediate
scrutiny is appropriate for a restraint on commercial speech
designed to protect consumers from misleading or coercive
speech, or a regulation related to the time, place, or manner
of commercial speech," but not for a regulation that suppresses truthful commercial speech to serve some other government purpose. 447 U. S., at 573 (opinion concurring in
judgment). The present case demonstrates that there is no
reason to treat truthful commercial speech as a class that
is less "valuable" than noncommercial speech. Respondents'
publications, which respectively advertise the availability of
residential properties and educational opportunities, are unquestionably "valuable" to those who choose to read them,
and Cincinnati's ban on commercial newsracks should be subject to the same scrutiny we would apply to a regulation
burdening noncommercial speech.
In Virginia State Bd. of Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens
Consumer Council, Inc., 425 U. S. 748 (1976), this Court held
that commercial speech "which does 'no more than propose
a commercial transaction"' is protected by the First Amendment, id., at 762, quoting PittsburghPress Co. v. Pittsburgh

432

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring

Comm'n on Human Relations, 413 U. S. 376, 385 (1973).
In so holding, the Court focused principally on the First
Amendment interests of the listener. The Court noted that
"the particular consumer's interest in the free flow of commercial information... may be as keen, if not keener by far,
than his interest in the day's most urgent political debate,"
425 U. S., at 763, and that "the free flow of commercial information is indispensable . . . to the proper allocation of
resources in a free enterprise system ... [and] to the forma-

tion of intelligent opinions as to how that system ought to be
regulated or altered," id., at 765. See also Bates v. State
Bar of Arizona, 433 U. S. 350, 364 (1977).
The Court recognized, however, that government may
regulate commercial speech in ways that it may not regulate
protected noncommercial speech. See generally Virginia
State Bd. of Pharmacy,425 U. S., at 770-772. Government
may regulate commercial speech to ensure that it is not
false, deceptive, or misleading, id., at 771-772, and to ensure
that it is not coercive, Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436
U. S. 447, 457 (1978). Government also may prohibit commercial speech proposing unlawful activities. Pittsburgh
Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Comm'n on Human Relations, 413
U. S., at 388. See Bates v. State Bar of Arizona, 433 U. S.,
at 384.1 To permit government regulation on these grounds
is consistent with this Court's emphasis on the First Amendment interests of the listener in the commercial speech context. A listener has little interest in receiving false, misleading, or deceptive commercial information. See id., at
IIn the context of noncommercial speech, by contrast, this Court has
adopted rules that protect certain false statements of fact and speech
advocating illegal activities See, e. g., New York Times Co. v. Sullivan,
376 U. S. 254, 279-280 (1964) (liability for false statements regarding public officials may not be imposed without a showing of "actual malice");
Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447 (1969) (government may not proscribe advocacy of illegal action "except where such advocacy is directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and is likely to
incite or produce such action").

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring

383 ("[T]he public and private benefits from commercial
speech derive from confidence in its accuracy and reliability"). A listener also has little interest in being coerced into
a purchasing decision. See Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn.,
436 U. S., at 457 ("[I]n-person solicitation may exert pressure and often demands an immediate response, without providing an opportunity for comparison or reflection"). Furthermore, to the extent it exists at all, a listener has only
a weak interest in learning about commercial opportunities that the criminal law forbids. In sum, the commercial
speech that this Court had permitted government to regulate or proscribe was commercial speech that did not "serv[e]
individual and societal interests in assuring informed and
reliable decisionmaking." Bates v. State Bar of Arizona,
433 U. S., at 364.
So the law stood in 1980 when this Court decided Central
Hudson and held that all commercial speech was entitled
only to an intermediate level of constitutional protection.
The majority in Central Hudson reviewed the Court's earlier commercial speech cases and concluded that the Constitution "accords a lesser protection to commercial speech
than to other constitutionally guaranteed expression." 447
U. S., at 563. As a descriptive matter, this statement was
correct, since our cases had recognized that commercial
speech could be regulated on grounds that protected noncommercial speech could not. See n. 1, supra. This "lesser
protection" did not rest, however, on the fact that commercial speech "is of less constitutional moment than other forms
of speech," as the Central Hudson majority asserted. 447
U. S., at 563, n. 5.2 Rather, it reflected the fact that the lisI Central Hudson's conclusion that commercial speech is less valuable
than noncommercial speech seems to have its roots in an often-quoted
passage from Ohralik: "[W]e ...have afforded commercial speech a limited measure of protection, commensurate with its subordinate position
in the scale of First Amendment values, while allowing modes of regulation that might be impermissible in the realm of noncommercial expres-

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
BLACKMUN, J., Concurring

tener's First Amendment interests, from which the protection of commercial speech largely derives, allow for certain
specific kinds of government regulation that would not be
permitted outside the context of commercial speech.
The Central Hudson majority went on to develop a fourpart analysis commensurate with the supposed intermediate
status of commercial speech. Under that test, a court reviewing restrictions on commercial speech must first determine whether the speech concerns a lawful activity and is
not misleading.3 If the speech does not pass this preliminary threshold, then it is not protected by the First Amendment at all. Id., at 566. If it does pass the preliminary
threshold, then the government is required to show (1) that
the asserted government interest is "substantial," (2) that
the regulation at issue "directly advances" that interest, and
(3) that the regulation "is not more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Ibid. The Court refined this
test in Board of Trustees of State University of N. Y v. Fox,
492 U. S., at 480, to clarify that a regulation limiting commercial speech can, in fact, be more extensive than is necessary to serve the government's interest as long as it is not
unreasonably so. This intermediate level of scrutiny is a
far cry from strict scrutiny, under which the government
interest must be "compelling" and the regulation "narrowly
tailored" to serve that interest. See, e. g., Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, 494 U. S. 652, 657 (1990).
In Central Hudson, I concurred only in the Court's judgment because I felt the majority's four-part analysis was
sion." Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S.447, 456 (1978). As I
explain in the text, however, the "limited measure of protection" our cases
had afforded commercial speech reflected the fact that we had allowed
"modes of regulation that might be impermissible in the realm of noncommercial expression" and not that we had relegated commercial speech to
a "subordinate position in the scale of First Amendment values."
' Central Hudson's reference to "misleading" speech appears to include
speech that is inherently coercive, such as in-person solicitation. See 447
U. S., at 563, citing Ohralik, 436 U. S., at 464-465.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring

"not consistent with our prior cases and [did] not provide

adequate protection for truthful, nonmisleading, noncoercive
commercial speech." 447 U. S., at 573. I noted: "Permissible restraints on commercial speech have been limited to
measures designed to protect consumers from fraudulent,
misleading, or coercive sales techniques." Id., at 574.
Under the analysis adopted by the Central Hudson majority, misleading and coercive commercial speech and commercial speech proposing illegal activities are addressed in the
first prong of the four-part test. Yet commercial speech
that survives the first prong-i. e., that is not misleading or
coercive and that concerns lawful activities-is entitled only
to an intermediate level of protection. Furthermore, the
"substantial" government interest that Central Hudson requires to justify restrictions on commercial speech does not
have to be related to protecting against deception or coercion, for Central Hudson itself left open the possibility that
the government's substantial interest in energy conservation
might justify a more narrowly drawn restriction on truthful
advertising that promotes energy consumption. See id., at
569-572.
Thus, it is little wonder that when the city of Cincinnati
wanted to remove some newsracks from its streets, it chose
to eliminate all the commercial newsracks first although its
reasons had nothing to do with either the deceptiveness of
particular commercial publications or the particular characteristics of commercial newsracks themselves. First, Cincinnati could rely on this Court's broad statements that commercial speech "is of less constitutional moment than other
forms of speech," id., at 563, n. 5, and occupies a "subordinate position in the scale of First Amendment values,"
Ohralik, 436 U. S., at 456. Second, it knew that under Central Hudson its restrictions on commercial speech would be
examined with less enthusiasm and with less exacting scrutiny than any restrictions it might impose on other speech.
Indeed, it appears that Cincinnati felt it had no choice under

436

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring

this Court's decisions but to burden commercial newsracks
more heavily. See Brief for Petitioner 28 ("Cincinnati...
could run afoul of First Amendment protections afforded
noncommercial speech by affording newsrack-type dispensers containing commercial speech like treatment with newsracks containing noncommercial speech").
In this case, Central Hudson's chickens have come home
to roost.
The Court wisely rejects Cincinnati's argument that it
may single out commercial speech simply because it is "low
value" speech, see ante, at 428, and on the facts of this case
it is unnecessary to do more. The Court expressly reserves
the question whether regulations not directed at the content
of commercial speech or adverse effects stemming from that
content should be evaluated under the standards applicable
to regulations of fully protected speech. Ante, at 416,
n. 11. I believe the Court should answer that question in
the affirmative and hold that truthful, noncoercive commercial speech concerning lawful activities is entitled to full
First Amendment protection. As I wrote in Central Hudson, "intermediate scrutiny is appropriate for a restraint
on commercial speech designed to protect consumers from
misleading or coercive speech, or a regulation related to the
time, place, or manner of commercial speech." 447 U. S., at
573.4 But none of the "commonsense differences," Virginia
State Bd. of Pharmacy, 425 U. S., at 771, n. 24, between
commercial and other speech "justify relaxed scrutiny of
restraints that suppress truthful, nondeceptive, noncoercive
commercial speech." Central Hudson, 447 U. S., at 578
(opinion concurring in judgment).
41 made no mention in Central Hudson of commercial speech proposing
illegal activities, but I do not quarrel with the proposition that government may suppress such speech altogether. See PittsburghPress Co. v.
PittsburghComm'n on Human Relations, 413 U. S. 376, 388 (1973). See
also Bates v. State Bar of Arizona, 433 U. S. 350, 384 (1977).

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
BLACKMUN, J.,

concurring.

The commercial publications at issue in this case illustrate
the absurdity of treating all commercial speech as less valuable than all noncommercial speech. Respondent Harmon
Publishing Company, Inc., publishes and distributes a free
magazine containing listings and photographs of residential
properties. Like the "For Sale" signs this Court, in Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Willingboro, 431 U. S. 85 (1977),
held could not be banned, the information contained in Harmon's publication "bear[s] on one of the most important decisions [individuals] have a right to make: where to live and
raise their families." Id., at 96. Respondent Discovery
Network, Inc., advertises the availability of adult educational, recreational, and social programs. Our cases have
consistently recognized the importance of education to the
professional and personal development of the individual.
See, e. g., Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, 493
(1954). The "value" of respondents' commercial speech, at
least to those who receive it, certainly exceeds the value
of the offensive, though political, slogan displayed on the
petitioner's jacket in Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15
(1971).
I think it highly unlikely that according truthful, noncoercive commercial speech the full protection of the First
Amendment will erode the level of that protection. See
post, at 439 (dissenting opinion); Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar
Assn., 436 U. S., at 456. I have predicted that "the Court
will never provide child pornography or cigarette advertising the level of protection customarily granted political
speech." See R. A. V v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 415 (1992)
(opinion concurring in judgment). Yet I do not believe that
protecting truthful advertising will test this Nation's commitment to the First Amendment to any greater extent than
protecting offensive political speech. See, e. g., Texas v.
Johnson, 491 U. S. 397 (1989) (flag burning); NationalSocialist Party of America v. Skokie, 432 U. S. 43 (1977) (Nazi

438

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

march through Jewish neighborhood); Cohen v. California,
403 U. S. 15 (1971) (profane antiwar slogan). The very fact
that government remains free, in my view, to ensure that
commercial speech is not deceptive or coercive, to prohibit
commercial speech proposing illegal activities, and to impose
reasonable time, place, or manner restrictions on commercial
speech greatly reduces the risk that protecting truthful commercial speech will dilute the level of First Amendment protection for speech generally.
I am heartened by the Court's decision today to reject the
extreme extension of Central Hudson's logic, and I hope the
Court ultimately will come to abandon Central Hudson's
analysis entirely in favor of one that affords full protection
for truthful, noncoercive commercial speech about lawful
activities.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom
and JUSTICE THOMAS join, dissenting.

JUSTICE WHITE

Concerned about the safety and esthetics of its streets and
sidewalks, the city of Cincinnati decided to do something
about the proliferation of newsracks on its street corners.
Pursuant to an existing ordinance prohibiting the distribution of "commercial handbills" on public property, the city
ordered respondents Discovery Network, Inc., and Harmon
Publishing Company, Inc., to remove their newsracks from
its sidewalks within 30 days. Respondents publish and distribute free of charge magazines that consist principally of
commercial speech. Together their publications account for
62 of the 1,500-2,000 newsracks that clutter Cincinnati's
street corners. Because the city chose to address its newsrack problem by banning only those newsracks that disseminate commercial handbills, rather than regulating all
newsracks (including those that disseminate traditional
newspapers) alike, the Court holds that its actions violate
the First Amendment to the Constitution. I believe this
result is inconsistent with prior precedent.

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

dissenting

"Our jurisprudence has emphasized that 'commercial
speech [enjoys] a limited measure of protection, commensurate with its subordinate position in the scale of First
Amendment values,' and is subject to 'modes of regulation
that might be impermissible in the realm of noncommercial
expression."' Board of Trustees of State University of
N. Y v. Fox, 492 U. S. 469, 477 (1989) (quoting Ohralik v.
Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S. 447, 456 (1978)); see also
Bolger v. Youngs Drug Products Corp., 463 U. S. 60, 64-65
(1983). We have advanced several reasons for this treatment, among which is that commercial speech is more durable than other types of speech, since it is "the offspring of
economic self-interest." Central Hudson Gas & Electric
Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y, 447 U. S. 557, 564,
n. 6 (1980); Virginia State Bd. of Pharmacy v. Virginia
Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425 U. S. 748, 772, n. 24
(1976). Commercial speech is also "less central to the interests of the First Amendment" than other types of speech,
such as political expression. Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. v.
Greenmoss Builders, Inc., 472 U. S. 749, 758, n. 5 (1985)
(opinion of Powell, J.). Finally, there is an inherent danger
that conferring equal status upon commercial speech will
erode the First Amendment protection accorded noncommercial speech, "simply by a leveling process, of the force of
the Amendment's guarantee with respect to the latter kind
of speech." Ohralik, supra, at 456.
In Central Hudson, we set forth the test for analyzing
the permissibility of restrictions on commercial speech as
follows:
"At the outset, we must determine whether the expression is protected by the First Amendment. For commercial speech to come within that provision, it at least
must concern lawful activity and not be misleading.
Next, we ask whether the asserted governmental interest is substantial. If both inquiries yield positive
answers, we must determine whether the regulation

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

directly advances the governmental interest asserted,
and whether it is not more extensive than is necessary
to serve that interest." 447 U. S., at 566.
I agree with the Court that the city's prohibition against
respondents' newsracks is properly analyzed under Central
Hudson, see ante, at 416, but differ as to the result this analysis should produce.
As the Court points out, "respondents do not challenge
their characterization as 'commercial speech,"' and "[t]here
is no claim in this case that there is anything unlawful or
misleading about the contents of respondents' publications."
Ibid. "Nor do respondents question the substantiality of
the city's interest in safety and esthetics." Ibid. This case
turns, then, on the application of the last part of the Central
Hudson analysis. Although the Court does not say so,
there can be no question that Cincinnati's prohibition against
respondents' newsracks "directly advances" its safety and
esthetic interests because, if enforced, the city's policy will
decrease the number of newsracks on its street corners.
This leaves the question whether the city's prohibition is
"more extensive than necessary" to serve its interests, or,
as we elaborated in Fox, whether there is a "reasonable fit"
between the city's desired ends and the means it has chosen
to accomplish those ends. See 492 U. S., at 480. Because
the city's "commercial handbill" ordinance was not enacted
specifically to address the problems caused by newsracks,
and, if enforced, the city's prohibition against respondents'
newsracks would result in the removal of only 62 newsracks
from its street corners, the Court finds "ample support in
the record for the conclusion that the city did not establish
[a] reasonable fit." Ante, at 417 (internal quotation marks
omitted). I disagree.
According to the Court, the city's decision to invoke an
existing ordinance "to address its recently developed concern about newsracks" indicates that "it has not 'carefully
calculated' the costs and benefits associated with the burden

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

on speech imposed by its prohibition." Ibid. The implication being that, if Cincinnati had studied the problem in greater detail, it would have discovered that it could
have accomplished its desired ends by regulating the "size,
shape, appearance, or number" of all newsracks, rather than
categorically banning only those newsracks that disseminate commercial speech. Ibid. Despite its protestations
to the contrary, see ante, at 417, n. 13, this argument rests
on the discredited notion that the availability of "less restrictive means" to accomplish the city's objectives renders
its regulation of commercial speech unconstitutional. As
we observed in Fox, "almost all of the restrictions disallowed under Central Hudson's fourth prong have been
substantially excessive, disregarding far less restrictive
and more precise means." 492 U. S., at 479 (internal quotation marks omitted). That there may be other-less
restrictive-means by which Cincinnati could have gone
about addressing its safety and esthetic concerns, then, does
not render its prohibition against respondents' newsracks
unconstitutional.
Nor does the fact that, if enforced, the city's prohibition
would result in the removal of only 62 newsracks from its
street corners. The Court attaches significance to the
lower courts' findings that any benefit that would be derived
from the removal of respondents' newsracks would be "'minute'" or "'paltry."' Ante, at 418. The relevant inquiry,
though, is not the degree to which the locality's interests
are furthered in a particular case, but rather the relation
that the challenged regulation of commercial speech bears to
the "overall problem" the locality is seeking to alleviate.
Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 801 (1989).
This follows from our test for reviewing the validity of
"time, place, or manner" restrictions on noncommercial
speech, which we have said is "substantially similar" to the
Central Hudson analysis. Board of Trustees of State University of N. Y v. Fox, supra, at 477 (internal quotation

442

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

marks omitted). Properly viewed, then, the city's prohibition against respondents' newsracks is directly related to its
efforts to alleviate the problems caused by newsracks, since
every newsrack that is removed from the city's sidewalks
marginally enhances the safety of its streets and esthetics of
its cityscape. This conclusion is not altered by the fact that
the city has chosen to address its problem by banning only
those newsracks that disseminate commercial speech, rather
than regulating all newsracks alike.
Our commercial speech cases establish that localities may
stop short of fully accomplishing their objectives without
running afoul of the First Amendment. In Posadas de
Puerto Rico Associates v. Tourism Co. of Puerto Rico, 478
U. S. 328, 342 (1986), where we upheld Puerto Rico's ban on
promotional advertising of casino gambling aimed at Puerto
Rico residents, we rejected the appellant's argument that
the ban was invalid under Central Hudson because other
types of gambling (e. g., horse racing) were permitted to be
advertised to local residents. More to the point, in Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S. 490 (1981) (plurality
opinion), where we upheld San Diego's ban of offsite billboard advertising, we rejected the appellants' argument
that the ban was invalid under Central Hudson because it
did not extend to onsite billboard advertising. See 453
U. S., at 511 ("[W]hether onsite advertising is permitted or
not, the prohibition of offsite advertising is directly related
to the stated objectives of traffic safety and esthetics. This
is not altered by the fact that the ordinance is underinclusive because it permits onsite advertising"). See also City
Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent, 466 U. S.
789, 810-811 (1984) (rejecting the argument that the city's
prohibition against the posting of signs on public property
could not be justified on esthetic grounds because it did not
extend to the posting of signs on private property). Thus,
the fact that Cincinnati's regulatory scheme is underin-

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

clusive does not render its ban on respondents' newsracks
unconstitutional.
The Court offers an alternative rationale for invalidating
the city's policy: viz., the distinction Cincinnati has drawn
(between commercial and noncommercial speech) in deciding
which newsracks to regulate "bears no relationship whatsoever to the particular interests that the city has asserted."
Ante, at 424 (emphasis in original). That is, because newsracks that disseminate noncommercial speech have the same
physical characteristics as newsracks that disseminate commercial speech, and therefore undermine the city's safety
and esthetic interests to the same degree, the city's decision
to ban only those newsracks that disseminate commercial
speech has nothing to do with its interests in regulating
newsracks in the first place. The city does not contend otherwise; instead, it asserts that its policy is grounded in the
distinction we have drawn between commercial and noncommercial speech. "In the absence of some basis for distinguishing between 'newspapers' and 'commercial handbills'
that is relevant to an interest asserted by the city," however,
the Court refuses "to recognize Cincinnati's bare assertion
that the 'low value' of commercial speech is a sufficient justification for its selective and categorical ban on newsracks
dispensing 'commercial handbills."' Ante, at 428.
Thus, despite the fact that we have consistently distinguished between commercial and noncommercial speech for
the purpose of determining whether the regulation of speech
is permissible, the Court holds that in attempting to alleviate
its newsrack problem Cincinnati may not choose to proceed
incrementally by burdening only commercial speech first.
Based on the different levels of protection we have accorded
commercial and noncommercial speech, we have previously
said that localities may not favor commercial over noncommercial speech in addressing similar urban problems, see
Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, supra, at 513 (plurality opinion), but before today we have never even suggested that

444

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

the converse holds true. It is not surprising, then, that the
Court offers little in the way of precedent supporting its new
rule. The cases it does cite involve challenges to the restriction of noncommercial speech in which we have refused to
accept distinctions drawn between restricted and nonrestricted speech on the ground that they bore no relationship
to the interests asserted for regulating the speech in the first
place. See ante, at 424-425, citing Simon & Schuster,Inc. v.
Members of N Y State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 120
(1991); Carey v. Brown, 447 U. S. 455, 465 (1980). Neither of
these cases involved the regulation of commercial speech; nor
did they involve a challenge to the permissibility of distinctions drawn between categories of speech that we have accorded different degrees of First Amendment protection.
The Court's reliance on Bolger v. Youngs Drug Products
Corp., see ante, at 426-428, is also misplaced. In that case we
said that the Government's interest in "shield[ing] recipients
of mail from materials that they are likely to find offensive"
was invalid regardless of the type of speech-commercial or
noncommercial-involved. See 463 U. S., at 71-72. By contrast, there can be no question here that the city's safety and
esthetic interests justify its prohibition against respondents'
newsracks. This at least is the teaching of Metromedia.
There, seven Justices were of the view that San Diego's
safety and esthetic interests were sufficient to justify its ban
on offsite billboard advertising, even though the city's reason
for regulating these billboards had nothing to do with the
content of the advertisements they displayed. See 453 U. S.,
507-510 (opinion of WHITE, J., joined by Stewart, Marshall,
and Powell, JJ.); id., at 552-553 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in

part); id., at 559-561, 563 (Burger, C. J., dissenting); id., at
569-570 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).

Without even attempt-

ing to reconcile Metromedia, the Court now suggests that
commercial speech is only subject to lesser protection when
it is being regulated because of its content (or adverse effects stemming therefrom). See ante, at 416, n. 11, 425-426,

Cite as: 507 U. S. 410 (1993)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

and n. 21. This holding, I fear, will unduly hamper our
cities' efforts to come to grips with the unique problems
posed by the dissemination of commercial speech.
If (as I am certain) Cincinnati may regulate newsracks
that disseminate commercial speech based on the interests
it has asserted, I am at a loss as to why its scheme is unconstitutional because it does not also regulate newsracks
that disseminate noncommercial speech. One would have
thought that the city, perhaps even following the teachings
of our commercial speech jurisprudence, could have decided
to place the burden of its regulatory scheme on less protected speech (i. e., commercial handbills) without running
afoul of the First Amendment. Today's decision, though,
places the city in the position of having to decide between
restricting more speech-fully protected speech-and allowing the proliferation of newsracks on its street corners to
continue unabated. It scarcely seems logical that the First
Amendment compels such a result. In my view, the city
may order the removal of all newsracks from its public rightof-ways if it so chooses. See Lakewood v. Plain Dealer
Publishing Co., 486 U. S. 750, 780-781 (1988) (WHITE, J.,
joined by STEVENS and O'CONNOR, JJ., dissenting). But
however it decides to address its newsrack problem, it should
be allowed to proceed in the manner and scope it sees fit
so long as it does not violate established First Amendment
principles, such as the rule against discrimination on the
basis of content. "[Llittle can be gained in the area of constitutional law, and much lost in the process of democratic
decisionmaking, by allowing individual judges in city after
city to second-guess ...

legislative ...

determinations" on

such matters as esthetics. Metromedia, 453 U. S., at 570
(REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).
Cincinnati has burdened less speech than necessary to
fully accomplish its objective of alleviating the problems
caused by the proliferation of newsracks on its street corners. Because I believe the city has established a "reason-

446

CINCINNATI v. DISCOVERY NETWORK, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

able fit" between its substantial safety and esthetic interests
and its prohibition against respondents' newsracks, I would
hold that the city's actions are permissible under Central
Hudson. I see no reason to engage in a "time, place, or
manner" analysis of the city's prohibition, which in any
event strikes me as duplicative of the Central Hudson analysis. Cf. Board of Trustees of State University of N Y v.
Fox, 492 U. S., at 477. Nor do I think it necessary or wise,
on the record before us, to reach the question whether the
city's regulatory scheme vests too much discretion in city
officials to determine whether a particular publication constitutes a "commercial handbill." See ante, at 423, n. 13. It
is undisputed, by the parties at least, that respondents' magazines constitute commercial speech. I dissent.

