UXtMEM

-

357

Coukr of PennJy'lvania.;

YM'KEAN, Ch;f .7uftite.-J'ood is a writei of great authority,
Xnd frequently' cited with refpe&t in Jf'omi nfer- Hall. In the cafe
before us, the execution has regularly itii ed, upon a judgment reguIakly obtained; and although we thould certainly prote& fuitors,
witneffes, and jurors, from an arreft on mrjne prccefs, during their.
attendance upon the Court, and for a reafonabletime in coming and
going, yet no cafe has been fhewn, -Abich will jufifjy our interferenoe to difcharge a ran taken in execution on the ground offuich a
lToteion. It is, indeed, the privilege of the Court that is infrinad ;'and, it is difcretionary, to grant it on fome occafions, and to
refufe it up.on others.
.
BY THE'COURT :-The prifoner muff be remandcd..
S

RiP

UpUBLICA

verfus

'SPARHAWX.

T

HIS was an appeal from the CsntptrjLler General's decifioN'
on the trial of which, by confent of the .dlorney Geuieial, 8parwas confidered -as Plaintiff.
hawk
I There was a verdict and judgment nifi for the Commonwealth,
when Ingerfol obtained a rule to fhew caufe why a n~w trial lhould
.iot be granted.
The cafe was this :-Congrefs, perceiving that it was the intention
of the Briti/h army to pol&l I themfelves or Philadelphia, aud being
informed that contiderable depofits of pro'ifiuns &c. weret made in
that city, entered into'a refolution on the i ith.of April, 1777, that
" a Committee fhould'be appointed to examine into the truth, of
their information;. and, if it was found true, to take effectnal"menaflires, in.conjun&ion v'ith the. Pennvflvania Board of War, to preVent fuch provilions.from falling into the hants of the enemry,"
On the r 3 th 6f the fame month, the J'ennfyhlania Board of War,
in aid-of this refolution, addreffed a circular letter to a number of
citiieris in each ward of the city, requeIfing the'ti " to obtain from
wery family a return of the provifions &c. theil iii polreffion, and
the number of perfons that compofed "thefamilies refpc&ively, in order that proper meanures night -be purfued for renovi g anyinneceffary quantity of fipplies to a place of fecurity." At the fame time, it
was mentioned, that "- this proceedingwas not intendedt to alter or
diveft the property in tae articles removed. but, on tile contrary,that the fame thould be -t all times liable t', the brder of the refpcctive bwners, providedthey Were not expolid to be taken by the eniemy-. .
That no precaution might -be omitted upon this (occafron, the
Pennfy[vani2 Board of War, on the fuccecding day, deirt'd General
&fuyler to pre"Vent the introdution.of further hipplics, and to a'dopt
the moft eft&ual means for preventing the departure of the wtggn
which were then in the city, and for p ocuring as mz;:y moie as

would
Determined at S-utnury. N. P. on tfix:th of
Rusu.
'Caizr Jus-rce, and Mr. yf,'.j

r 7S*'S-beforg tkh

35-S

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

would be neceffary to tranfport, not only the public ftores, but alfb+
fuch private effe~ts, as it might be thought expedient to remove.
. Several intercepted letters having encreafcd the apprehenfions of
Congrifs, on the x6th of April, 1777, they refolved, " that it be
recommended to the Prefident and Membersof the-executive authority of this State, to requeft the commanding officer of the continental
foices in this city, to take the moll effe6lual means, tlat all provifions, and every other article, which, byfalling into the handsof the
enemy, nay aid thcm. in their operations of war againft the Uhn~ed
States, or tlhe lofs of which might diiirefis the continental army, be
immediatrly removed to fuch places, as thall b: deemed moft convenient and fecurc."
This recommendation was tranfmitted by the Executive Council
tp the Peni:J-'vaniaBoard of War, who, on thre r8th o!'April, patfed
al crd:r, tiat - houfes, barns, flores, &c. fliould be hired or feized, for the reception of fuch articles, as lhould be fent out of the city by their diredionor that of Congrefs;" and, accordingly, a very
confidcrable quantity of property• was foon refiaoved to ( enut _Hill,
and placed under the care of Mefirs. Loughead and Barnhill; who
gave receipts totheowners, promifing' to reitore what belonged to
•,em refpe&ively, or to deliver the fame to their refpe&tive orders."
The enemy, not approaching fo rapidly as was expeaed, a confiderable part of this property had, accordingly,, been re-delivered to
ime order of the owners, before the city was entered by the Briih
troops; when, however, the depot at (hefnut-Hill fell, likewife,
intotheir hands, and, with it, 227 barrels of flour, belonging to
Sparhawk; being the remainder of 323 barrels that had been originally lemoved thitheri in confequetice of the above mentioned proceedings.
For the price of thefe 927 barrels of flour, with intereft from the
time of their being taken, Sparhawk exhibited an account, amountingto £919 6 b "againft the public ; upon which the ComptrollirGeneralreported to the Executive Council, that " neither the principal, the interell, nor any part of either, could ie allowed;" and againift this decifion the prefent appeal was entered.
The quetlion, therefore, on the motion for a new trial, was,
whether this claim, under all the circumitances, ought to be admitted? and it was argued on the 28th of April, by Ingerfol, for the
Appellant; and the Attorney General, Ior the Commonwealth.
P& the part of the Appellant, it was premifed, that, in a feafon of
peace, the law had fo great a regard for pfivate property that it
would not authorize the lea4i violation of it; no, not even for the
general good of the whole community. i Back. 6on. 139. And,
it was contended, that, ilthough a ftate of war entitled one nation
to feize and lay wafte the property of another, and their refpec'ive
fubjeIs to mole.t the perfons, and to leize the effe&s of their opponents, yet, as between a fate and its own citizens, ti principle,
with refp: :tto the rights of property, is immu tably the fame, i.n
war as well as peace. Sometimes, indeed,, thz weliare of the-pub.lic

SUPREME COURT of Pen,;k'!a,7i4.

359

-icmay be allowed to interfere with the immediate poffeflions of an 1789.
individual; but there muit be cafes of abfolute necefity, in which
every good citizen ought chearfully to acquiefcc : Yet, even then,
juftice reqt'ires, and the law declares, that an adequate compenfation fhould be made for the wrong that is dbne. For, the burthen
of the war ought to be equally borne by all who are interefted in it,
and not fall difprop..rtionatelv heavy upon a few. Thefe general
principles are fortified b) the explicit language of the Dedlarationof
Rigts, SeI7. 8. which provides, that " no part of a man's property can be juftly taken from him, or applied fo public ufes, withou
his own confent, or that of his legal Reprefentatives." In the prefent cafe the Appellant did not voluntarily furrender his property,
nor was it taken irom him by any legiflative fantlion.
That there are, however, fome inflances where an individual is
-not entitled to redrefs tor injuries comimitted on his property in the
profecution ot publit objeas, muff be admitted ; but thefe infiances
are carefully diitinguifhed by the writers on the law of nations;
IVaft. B. 3.,elt 232. and are in no degree analogous to the foundation of the Appellant's claim. If,indeed, the property in queftion had remained in Philadelpha, and had there been feized by the'
enemy, there could have been no reafon to claim an indemnification
from the public; but, when it was taken out of the potfeflion of the
owner by the executive authority of the State, and removed to a diftant place, with a promife of refloring it on demand, the fubfequent
capture being clearly a confequence of this interference, the government is bound to indemnify the Appellant for his lofs.
It is unnecefflry to travel into an invelligation of the various
modes, by which an individual may feek for redrefs and compenfation, where his property has been diveffed for the ufe of the public.
The right is clear, and that every right mulf have a remedy, is a
principle of general law, which the Legiflature ot Pennfytvania has
exprefgiy recognized ; direding, by anl early A& of Alfembly, the
fettlement of-the accounts of the Committee and Council of Safety;
and prefcribing in. what manner the claims of individuals ihould be
fettled and difcharged. 2 State Laws 144. To thefe bodies, the
Pennfylvania Board of War fucceeded; the bufinefsof the Board was
tranfa~led in the fame way; and there can be no good reafon, why
the obligations which they incurred, fhould not be as fairly and fully
adjufted and fatisfied. The Legiflaitlre, indeed, muff have regarded
the matter in the fame light ; for, finding that the former law was
inadequate to its objeas, another was cna&cd to appoint a Comptroller General, and to authorize him " to liquidate and fettle, according to law and equity, all claims againle the 'omnnonwealth, for
fervices performed, moniesadvanced, or articles furnifhed, by order
of the legiflative, or executive pow.6rs, for tile ufe of the fame, or
for any other purpofe whatever."-This authority cnbraced the
Appellant's claim, and the Comptroller General has erred in deciding againfit it.

Tht

36 "

iB.
.

AAs rki-d arid .judged in the

.. The .dttorniyGeneral, .forthe Commonwealth, fIated the care to ba
briefly this; that the Pnnfylvana Board of War, a&ing under the
recommendations of Congrefs, removed, among other things, a
"qualtityof flour belonging to the Appellant, in order to prevent its
talling into-the hands of theenemy declaring, hpwever, that the
removal was -not intended to diveft the property, but that the flour
1hould flill
be fubje& to the'o'der of the owner, provided it was
not expofe'd to a capture. The flour beingafterwards feized by the
ABriti/h tfbops at the place where the Pennfylvania Board of War'
had depofed it, two queftions arife :-ift. Whether this Court has
power to grant relief to the Appellant, if any ought to be granted.
And, .dly. Whether, on prlnciples of law and equityj he is entitled
tobe relieved.
4.: Confidering this as a afe immediately between Sparhawk and
iheCommonwealth, it is clear, that a fovereign is not amenable in any,
Cotrt, urilefs by his own confent; r Black. Cqm. 242. And,
therefore, unlefs the Commonwealth has exprefsly confented, there
is nothingin the corftitution of this Court, which can warrant.their
fufaining the prefcnt proceedings. What then is the evidence of
confent ? We are refered to the law appointing the Comptroller
Oeneral 'Let us examhine this law; and as the cafe comes by a -peal frori the Comptroller, if it appears fhat he had no authority to
liquidateafid fettle Sparhawk's claim, it follows, as ineceffary confequence, that this Court, alfo, has no jurifdi&ion for that purpofe.
By the A& of Alfembly which gives the appeal frbm the CzbmttrolIcr General's decifion to the Supreme Court, 3 State Ldws 444. this is
reftri&ed to fuch accounts as he (hall fettle ih purfuence of the preceding'A&, by which he was alpointed; 3 State Laws 57. and
there, we find, the fpecific objr-& of his authority to be, :ae liquidation and fettlement of all claims againft the Common6ealth, '! for
fervices peiformed, monies advanced,. or'articles furnifhed, blyorder
ofthe legiflative, or executive power, &c." In 6rder, therefore, to
r,two things muff concurfound thejurifdi&ion of the Comptr
Ift. that the claim be for fervices performed, monies advanced, or
articles furnifhed; and 2dly. that the debt has been incurred by order of the legiflative.or excutive power.
.-No,, in the prefent cafe, the Appellant m-ikes no claim for fervices performed, orimoney advanced, and it is impoflible for the mOft
ingenious fancy to bringlhis demand within the defcription of articlei
furnifhed. It is conceded, indeed, that the law does not, in peace,
a knowledge any authority to violate the rights of propertyor to interfeie with the poffeflions ofiiidiv.iduals; but there is in war a.trarlfcendant power, which is onne&ed with the fundamental principle
of all goveijnments, the prefervation of the whole; and the. intereft
of private perfons may certainly, in that feafon, belfacrificed, ne quid
refulica detrimenti ihPiat.. The lofs, of Which the Appellant-complains, wai oc.cafioned byv the exercife of this power.. As a tort it
cannotbe.charged-againft the Cnmonweallh;. for, adeclaration flat,o!rld be caufe of deiuirer: And, therefdre, as it is'ionly
N%
ing it
;in

bUPR~di

CouP.tt of Pennfytvania.

36

in cafes of contra&, either exprefs or implied, that the Comptralle"
Generalis'authorized to a&, there is ho jurifdi&ion which can' ]:e
lieve him, but that of the Legiflature.
-But, in the next place, the claim does not originate upon any.
'order of the legiflative, or executive, power, agreeably to. the terms
.of the a&. The -order for the removal of the provifion, &c. to
Chejint-Hitl was idlued by the Pennfyhvania Board ofV'war, not in
obedience to-the Executive Council, but in'purfuance of a recom.ixindation froth Couigrefs, which the Executive Coundil merely
iranfmitted to the Board. 'Even, indeed, if the Execu'tive Countfill
to dire& this proce~ding, a quefion would
cii had undertaken
I
arie, whether they had a right to do fo ? for, ,the "a o Afrembly,
providinjbr the fertlement of clairris againft the public by order 6f
thq Executive Council, though not i'n exprefs words, yet, by a ne6effary implication, mupf intend a legitimite order, founded upon
the conflitutional powers-of that department, or itfued under the au--thority of fome law. The Executive Coufncil cannot otherwife
-harge the public; without the'legiflativefan6tion they cannot ere&
Magazines, or any "otherpublic buildings; nor enter -into the moil
trifling contra&; of which, 'indeed, a recent lroof appears, in'tiie
refufal .of the General Affembly to pay fi& the arms of the State_,
that had been placed in the Supreme Court, or to difcharge the ad-.
.itional exlefice of the Triumphal Arch, which had been incurred
bjr the direcion and upon the faith of the Executive.C.ouncil.
II. But, It is-further to be Ihewpi.that. eveni fuppofihig the Comotroller General, or this Court upon appeal, hid. the power of grant-.
ing.Sparhawk's claim, yet, that the clair itfelf is not founded in
law or equity, and ought, therefore, to be rejeced.-If the Appellant's'claim isjufl, he ought either to urge it againfi the immediate
agentin the wrong which he has fuftained, dr travel to the fource,
and demand reparation from Congrefs.. The Coamonwealth ot
Pennjylvania cannot be liable; for, the perfons who took and kept
the-provifions, &c. at Chefnut-Hill, aaed under the aut.hority of the
Board of war,- who, it is true, were appointid by the -Executive
Council; but, in this inftance, proceeded entirely-upon the recominend'atlon of Cofigrefs," which the Executive Council did not, and
-could not legally, enjoin or enforce; It is poflible, however, that,in ftri6t law, Mefim. Loughead and Barnhillwould have been liable
as trefpaffers, had not the Legiflature interfered to prote.& perfons
in .their fituation from vexatious profecutions ;3 Statie Laws. 178.
And this a&, although it relates immediately to individuals, Ihews,
generally, that the temporary bodies, by whofe orders fuch iidi;iduals were governed, are, likewife, 'to be" ekempted from fuii,
on account of -their condu& in the fervice of their country.
But,' on what ground can redrefs be at all'expe6fqd on this occafion"? The removal of the Appellant's prioperty, arofe from' the neceflity of the war; it was not done to convert the flour to the public
ufe, nor to deprive.the owner of the advantages of it, any farthei
&ahaa the praixfount confideration of the public welfare required.
"
"ij
Z z

362
- 1788.

'CASEs

ruled and adjudged in he

The objec was to fecure it front the depredations of the enemy;
and, that it, atterwards, fell into their hands, was an event involuntary, and merely accidental, in which cafe Yattel exprefsly fays,
no oompenfation ihall be made. Fait.lib. 3.fee. 232 If the Appellant
is entitled to relief, every fanrer whofe cattle have been driven from
his plantation to avoid the enemy; every man whofe -liquors have
been flaved, or provifions deftroyed, upon the approach of the Briti#h
troops; all the owners of 23ynicurn ifland, which was deluged by a
military mandat--; and, in Ihort, every one whofe interefts have
been affeted by the chance of war, muft alfo, in an equal difltribution of juftice, be efTh&ually indemnified.-What nation could
ftifain the enormous load of debt which fo ruinotis a doaninewould create !
IngerJfil, in reply.-With refpe& to the firf point made on the
part of the Commonwealth, it is not contended, for the Appellant,
that, generally fpeakirlg, citizens may fue the State; but only that
every Government, which is not abfiutely defpotic, has provided
frme.means (in England,for in'ftance, by petition in Chancery) to
obtain a redrefs of injuries from the SovereignI.
As to the fcozd point ;-The Pennfylvana Board of war. a.ted
under the authority of the Executive Council; and the principal is
refponfibl*e for'the agent. When the Appellant's property was
taken out of his own cultody, the Government fteod in his place,
and undertook all the confequent rifques. The individuals, who
were chiarged with the care of it, are prote&ed by the a& of Affembly; but the State, upon every principle of juflice, is ftill liable for
the lofs; and the authority of the Co.ptroller Gentralwas intended,
and has always been underilood, to bz competent for granting the
fatigfaftion which is*now claimed.
The CnIF JUSTICE, after Rating the cafe,- delivered the .opiiion
n
of the Court as follows "
M'KE-AN€, C'hifuflice.-On the circumnftances of this cafe, two
points arife:
ift, Whother the appellant ought to receive any compenfation,
or not.? Arid
2dly, Whether this Court can grant the.relief which is claimed?
Upon thefirfl point we are to be governed by reafon, by the law
-of nations, and by precedents analogous to the fubje& before us.
The.tranfafion, it muff be remembered, happened flagrante lello;
,and many things are lawful in that feafon, which would not be
The feizure of the property in
1 1&rmitted in a time of peace.
queftion, can, indeed, only be jtftified under this diftinciion ; for,
otherwife, it would clearly have been a trefpaJs; which, from the
very nature of the term, tranfgrefio, imports to go beyond what is
*right. 5 Bac. Ahr. r5o. It is a rule, however, that it is better to
fzfer a: private mifchief, than a public i.aconvenience; and the rights
.neceffty,
f
form a part of our law.

StJ1REME COURT of Pet

.

363

Of this principle, there are many ftriking illuftrations.
If a 1788.
road be out of repair, a paffenger may lawfully go through a private enclofure 2 Black. Coln. 36. Su, if a man is affitulted, he may
fly through another's clofe. 5 Rae.'Abr. 173- In time of war, bulwarks may be built on private ground. Dyer. 8. Brook. trefpqf,. 213.
5 Bac. .dr.175. and the reafon affigned is pairticularly applicable
to th p-fzrir cafe, becaufe it is for the public fafety. 20 Pin. dbr.
(trqpafs) B. a. fec. 4..f. 476. Thus, al fo, every man may, of
conmoa right julfify the going of his fervants, or horfes, upon the
banks of naviguble rivers, Jor towing barges, &c. to whomfoever
the rig.ht of the foil belongs. r Ld. Raym. 725. The purfuit of
Fo.ves th'rct.gh another's ground is allowed, becaulfe the deftru&ion
o, fiich animals is for the public good, 2Bulr. 62. Cro. L 32. And,
as the fafety of the people is a law above all others, it is lawful to
part affrayers in the houfe of another man. KeyL 46. 5Bac. Alr.
I:7. 2o k7n. Ar.f&. 4o7.fec. 14. Houfes may be razed to prevent
time fpreading of fire, becaufe for the public good. Dyer. 36. Rud.
L. and E. 3 1 2. See Puff.rhb. 2. c. 6. frc. 8. Hutch. Mor Philf.lib.
2. c. r6. We find, indeed, a memirable inftance of follyrecorded
in the 3 Vol. of 6Uhrendon's Hiqorq, where it is mentioned, that
the Lord Mayor of London, in.1666, when that city was on fire,
would not give dire6tons for, or confent to, the pulling, down forty
wooden houfes, or to the removing the furniture, &c. belonging to
the Lawyers of the Temple, then on the Circuit, for fear he fhould
bc anfwerabl' for a trefpafs; and in confequence of this condu&
half that great city was burnt.
We are dearly of opinion, thamt Congrcfs might lawfufly dire&"
the removal of any articles tfiat were nccelfary to the maintenance
of the Continental army, or uteful to the enemy, and in danger of
falling into their hands ; for they were veled with the powers of
peace*and war, to which this was a natural and necefflary incident:
And, having done it lawfully, there is nothing in the circumliances
of the cafe, which, we think, entitles the Appellant to a compenfation lor the confequent lofs.
With refpe& to thefecond point;--This Court has nuthority to
confirm, or alter, any- proceedings; that come properly before the
Comptroller General; but if.he had n6jurifdi&ion, w'e can have none.
It appcars then, that his power is exprefsly limited to claims "for
fervices performed, monies advanced, or articles furnithed," by
order of the Legiflature, or the Executive Council. And, as he
has no right to adjudge .a compenfation from the State for damages,
which individuals may have tiffered in the courfe of our military.
operations, we are of opinion, that we could grant no relief, even
it the Appellant was entitled to it.
BY 'THE CoUoZ:-Let the rule be difcharged'; and the Judg.
ment for the Commonwealth be made aobioite.

ZZ :I

COMMON

