CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

6o
1781.
L..

and operation of the law, however, the prifoner is now pretludea
from controverting, if, at any time before the date of the proclamation he was a fubje& of the'State of Rennfylvania.
itlere, then, the matter refis. Had, the i;iae been in the diljunl7ive,
the prifoner would cletrly have come within the defcription of an
,nhJ.bant of Prnnfykvania; but when the wordfuije1? is annexed,
it means a fiibje~tion to fomne fovereign ower, and is not barely
conneaed with the idea of territory-it refers tW one who owes obedience to the laws, and is entitled to partake of the ceions into
public ofice. On this point, therefore, we muft again advert to
the a& of Affembly, declaring what ha!l be treafon, which has no.
retrofpea, ind to the a& far the revival of the laws, which implies a
6
fufpenfion of all the laws from the 14th of My T77 ,to the Yith of
F. 17 7 7 - If there were ro !aws to be obeyed dMting that period,
the prifoner could not be deemed a fubje of tbe State of Pennfyl,ania on the 26th da-y of Deceinher 1776. Whether the Legiflature
meant to include this cafe we will not pofitively determine ;--it is a
pew one, and we ought to tre:'d cautioufly and fecurely : But, at all
eyents. it is better to err on the fide of mercy, than of firiat juflice,
The jury found a yerdi& of not Guilty.

Septemier Term, 1781.

RESPULICA

T

verfrus JoHUA

BUFFIINGTON.

HE Attorney General filed a fuggeflion, ftating, that 7owua
. Buffngton of tit county of C.k/7er, yeoman, being a fubjL61, or
inhabitant of the State, was by proclamation' of the Supreme
Executive Counril, dated the 2d f O8oher 178o; required in purfuance of the attairider law, to Iuriender huifelf to a pnffice of
the Supreme Court &c. on or befdre the 13 tb of Novem r, 178o,
to abide his legal trial for the treafons-in the proclamation mentioned, &c. That the faid 7olhua Buffng!on did not furrender him.
felt, &c. whereby he is attainted, &c. and he prays an award of

exeutiop.

SUPREME

COURT Of P1fyv

a

an

.61

7o0ua Bujffngton, the prifoner, pleaded, ore tenus, that he is not L7 8.
the joJhua Buffington, in the proclamation named, and was not
required to furrender himfelf, &c.-On which the Jttorey General
replied, that the prifoner at the bar is the fame Joflua Bufngton in
the faid proclamation named; and thereupon iffMie was joined.
The proclamation being produced on the trial, it appeared,
thal jb/ua Buffington, now, or late, of tbi town/hip o ai Bradford, yeoman, was therein required to furrender himfelf, &c, 4ccording to.the terms of the fuggeflion.
The evidence was this---.That on the x61b of May 178o, 4
warrant idued to apprehend oJbuaBuffington ; that about tlree or
four weeks before the date of the warrant, the prifoner had removed
from ChfJler County into the Delaware State ; that he was born in
Cbefler County, and had refided there from the )ye:r-1776, to the
.ime of his faid removal ; and that he was the only perfoii of that
paine in the County, On the other hand, however, all the witneffes agreed, that '."j.Jhua Buffington had never lived in _0a.fl Bradford, but always in fVefl Bradford townfhip, which were diain&
townihips to every intent and'purpofe.
Ledvis and Z-g.rfol, for the defendant, contended that this variance between the proclamation, and the pr.oof, was fatal to thq
p oceedings; and cited 2 Haw, x86. f. 119 . 12o. 121. id, i89,

f.121.

The 4torney General infifted, however, that the only queflioni
to be determined, were, fir/, ,hether the prifoner is the .7Jbua
/?u~fngton wbom the Executive Council intv.nded to call upon to
furrender, &c ; and, fecondly, wfiether he is .fo defcribed, that the
defcription cannot apply to any other perfon', and he cited, Fo.

79.

97" 3 Bac. 617. oZ. 103..
But, BY THE .COUXT :-Although it may be allowed, that the

legiflature is not bound to ihe ,ime ftridnefs, that is required iq
the defcriptions of all indi&meits'; yet, we are inclined tothink,
that the Executive Council is fo bound. Even in the cafe of z
pardon, if the perfon intended to be benefitted were named of a
'Wrpng townfhip, the effe6l of'the pardon would be extremely
doubtful.
On the prefent occafion, though JoJhua Buffi'ngton of Eafl
Brad ord was called upba to furrender himfelf; yet, Jo7bitaBufflnglon of Jf-eff Bradford certainly was not ; and there is ground
for a prefumption, that the p rifoner did not think he was the immediate obje& of the proclamation.
The Court are, therefore? of opinion that the identity is not
fufficiently eftabhfled.
The jury found a verdi&, upon the iffue, in favor of the de
fendant ; and hewas thereupon dfrcharged.
In September, 1782, however, he was tried for the offences aL.
ledged againif him, and acquitted. But the Court ordered him tQ
give fecurity to be of good be.aiyiour and keep the peace, during
Ui
M'VEAU.
ihe war with Grat-B.ri/ah,.

