36

CAsEs- rule4 and adjudged in the

zSg. 46 exception during the continuaice of the latie war) we have uL--v.-.d formly acceded; and 3dly, where there has been a. vexatious and
unreafonable delay in making payment, which will induce the Court
to dire&, and the Jury to grant, an adequate compenfation, under
the name of damages, for which the rate of "interift is generally
made the rule of computation. The do~lrine upon this fubjed wai
fully difcuffed anddetermined in Henry Eror. vs. -R;i et-at ant 265.
'We think it eftablifhes a juflt and ufeful principle, which tends.
equally to promote credit, and to prevent feuds andlitigations. Ita
tranfgrelling this principle, the Referees have milaken a lear point
of law, which would alone be fufficient for fetting afide their report.
But, befides this, we find by.the evidence under the fixtb excep.
tion, "thatthey have alfo allowed the charge of premium, and commiflion for making an Infurance, without requiring the Policy. to.
be produced, or any-proof of its being loft; whizh is the only evi.dence that, -in fuch cafes, can. be admitted in any Court, either of'
civil or cbmrren" law juri!di&ion. It is," indeed, a fundamental
maxim in the laws of evidence (wifely framed for the prevention ot
frauds) that the belt proof, o? which the fa& reafonably admits,
ougtht tobazgiven. trzis has,-not betm cozriplied with on the prefent ocafion; and thereferees in over-looking it, have violated
another plain principle uf law.
Upon the whole, as our decifion agamft the Plaintiffican produce.
no material injury, but if againit the Defendant, would forever..
preclude him from a chance of juftice, TH . COURT. unatdimoully
dire&
That the Report be fet Afide.
For the PintYf'were cited :-5 Bac. 250. -f Bac. 34. a Burr.
7or. Saik. 71. 7 . 3 Burr. a259. 2ern. 705. 1 ern. 157. Bull.
L. LV. P. 170. 186. 8 in.6. x Ak.'67. 2 ,ern. 7o6. 3 P" /4as.
25. 408 3 2t'. 509.
.
For the Defi'ndant were cited :-2 Fer. 515. t.t4k. 64. 2 Vern.
705. 3 Atk. 494-- 3 Buir 1259. 5 Burr. 729 "L L.d. Pay. 27 1.
12 Vin. 25 . 35. C . 445. D . 627.
73. a
392. Gilb, L. E-.4:.5- 06. 17.

PLOWMAN
verfu4 ABRAMS.
HIS was a rert;orarito one of the Juflices of the city and county of Philadel5hia, and the proceedings being returned, it appeared, that J'wk-awn, the Defendant, before the Juitice, had appealed io the Common Pleas and entered fecurity agreeably to the aft
of Afembly-; Lut on a certificate frcm the Prothonotary of that Court,
-that the appeal was ngt filed, the Juftice iffued an execution againft
the Defendant.

Dallas

SUPR 1 E CoUR-aT of Pe;;mfylvanta.

3.17

Dallas moved to quafh" he execution-Bga:klrn and Healty oppofed it.
And, by THE COURT :-,Afer appeal and fecurity given, the

Juitice cannoz iffule an e5cCUtion againft the original Defendant,
Therebut muft proceed againft the bail upon the recognizance.
lore let the proceedings of the Juitice be fet afide, as far as refpe&s
the execution, with cofis.
RIC-HETTE

Verfu$

S-TEWART

et al.

T HIS was an a6lion upon a Policy of infurance on the Brij
La Catiche ; and the circumilances of hd cafe, as.far as they
refpe& the decifion of the Court, were thefe:The Brig having fufained confiderable damage by atorm, the
Captain, who was alo a part owner, was comtpellcd to deviate from
his proper voyage, and, accordingly, bore away for Gape Francois.
When he azrived there, on tht 28th day -ofAugup, 1784, he delivered a'procs verbal (which 'had been drawn up "atfea, recently after
-he Itrm) into the tdnirilty, in oitder to obtain a furvey of the
velTel; but this intftrumnt was npere!y a relation of tats, unarteflted
hy the oath of the Captain, or of any of the Mariners, who had
fubfcribed it as witnelfes. A copy of it being afterwards, however,
brought to.P'iladelphia,the Captain alone, on the gb day ,ofDecemher 1784, went before a Ntar Public of ihis city, and in form of a
proteit, fwore to the authenticity of the copy, and the truth of its
content's.

When the prefent a6.ion was inflituted, a commiffloi iffued to
obtain a tranfcript of the proceedings in the dmiralty of Cape Fiancois ; and. the proces verbalbeing'returned with the other official ocuments, certified by the Judge under the feel of that Court, the
Plaintiff's council at the trial, which cqmae on the 4th of euJ.,of.
fered to read it in evidence to the Jury.
But, it was obje&ed, by the other fide, that the prods ve-hal,
taken by itfelf, was not admiflible as evidence, becaufe it had not
been rendered upon oath ; and that, even connecling it with the
fubfequent proteftat Phiadelphia, it ought, neverthelefs, to be -reje6ted; becaufe no proteff is valid to this purpofe, that has notbeen
made at the firft port in which the Captain arrives after a misforiuriehas happened to his veffel. See ff/eflcote 4 3 2. i Mag. 87.. Beawes'l4.
.The Plaintiff's counfel, in reply, obferved, that although ihb
ftr16t formalities required in this country, hbad not been purfued, yet
if the proceeding was conformably to the lex loci it ought to be received. They contended, therefore, that as the procs verbal was
lodged in a competent office, and is duly certified under the feal of
the Admiralty, this Court, in refpe& to a foreign jurifdi6lion, is
bound ito prefume that it was regularly taken according to the laws
of France. Befides, the rule in regard. to all excunplificatizns,"
rendered

1788.

