340

CASEs" rUled and adjudged &c.

x788: patl; but this is owing to the greater facility of obtaining fettlements in the tCourt of' Chancery, by a reference to the mafters;
and there are many cafes in the books which point out the expediency and propriety of the interference of that Court. If, indeed, it
had not affumed a competent jurifdi&ion in this refpe&, I am perftiaded, that, in order to accomplifh juftice, the Court of King's
Bench would have done what we are now obliged to do. For, it is'
the duty of Judges to fee the laws faithfully adminiftered, and to
promote the proper means for obtaining that end.
Hence it is, that here, in an a6lion of Jccount render between
partners, if thefe fa&s are proved-that a partnerihip exifted-that
the Defendant was -the a&ing partner--and that he received any part
of the um, from-any of the perfons mentioned in the declarationwe fliall uniformly oblige hirn to render an account of his tranfactions. It would be hard,. indeed, if, while the books and documents remain in- the hands of the Defendant, the Plaintiff were
bound toftate in his declaration every receipt in which he was interefted, and to be condemned to lofe, under fuch circumftances, his
portion of every credit he omitted to infert, in the coutfe of a mercalitile traifacfhbn, confifting, perhaps, often thoufand items.
. It fhould be obferved,' likewife, that there is a diflin&ion in the
general law as to Bailiffs and Receivers; the former being entitled
to reafonable expences, which the latter canmot fecover. This
diffin&ion, however, does not apply to the cafe of partners in trade;
for, one partner, though charged as a receiver, is entitled to every.
juft allowance againft the other.
. Nor does the verdi&-of the Jury affe& the principles of the fettlement; for, ful pofe I engage in trade with another man, and pay
into his hands a C ioo, as my lh'are of the flock; if, afterwards,
1 bring an a6aion of .ccvunt'render againft him, and the Jury- find
the receipt'of this money ;-fuch finding does not furely fix (he fum
for which he fhall'be refponfible to me, but the auditors will, neverthelefs, on the one hand, allow me a proportion of any profits
-vhii, h have. been accumulated; or, on the other hand, charge me
with a proportion of any loffes or expences that may have happened
in our joint iegoti:ions. Co. Lit. 172. a.-.fec. 259o

Bu'ZC ER verfus

COATS.

T

WO witneffies, who had been duly ferred with a Su~pana,
were brought before the Coprt-upon an attachment ; but
having fatisfa6lorily proved, thaf tlifey "ere fo much indifpofed, as
-to be utterly incapable of attending in obedJence to the SuOPena,
they were difcharged.
And, BY THE COURT: As we do not find thefe perfons irr c6ntempti the coffs of the attachment muff abide the event of the fuit."

CoMMOs

