SUPREM

COURT of Pernzflvania.

the writ; Al was bycon.ent -of the -King; add tho re erfaltook i74

place, though there was really no error at all.
It is as much a breach of duty, to reverfe a go6d, as it would be
-to afirm a bad outlawry. The mif~hief goes farther-than an un-ightetus fentenca" in the.particular cafe "ir
f ", to.reverfe without
an error, is to abolifh that part of the law.
Your Excellency further i.nforms us, that the offender ha- alledged in his petition to council, that lie was iithe city of New.2orkat the time the outlawry was .fued Torth againf him. I.=i aunfwei to this, we can only fay with certainty, that if hie had put afri
material fa& in-iflue, it would have been tried.
Upon the whole,' three -indi&cments for robbery have been fqund
againit him in Bucks county . by. the, examinations of j1ee ickers,
Solomaon Vickers, "7ohn I olinfon, Ifrael Dan, Jofeph .Doan, &. hM
was a.principal in thein- and eight.or nine:othersin that county,
and thecounties of Philadelpbia,(4hejr and LaanciAr; he has beea
duly outlawed for one.of.them, and execution legally awarded, aqoording to our.jiidgments.
We have the honor to be, with the greatefi refpe&,

sir,

Your ExcelLency's- nd the CouncFsi
Moft obedient -humble.Servant:,

Thomas M'Xean.
Georpe Bryan. Jacob Ruh.-

HAW4TO
Ns

1eFee verfus

GALLOWAY.

A DEED proved by the.-aiidavt of
one of the. witnefTes before
aJuffice',f the Cour -ofComznon Pleas, but not recorded, was
offered in evidepce.
It was objefed, howe.yer, that tltis afteaation is no proof of tha
deed at connron,baw,. unlefs it be an ancient deed, and poffeffibn is
proved to have gone, iloog with -it
; for, the witnefs ought to appear
in Coprt.-.Nor isit admiiflible un4er the 7 of 4ffmbly, for that
-xprefsly requires itto be recorded..
ites'anfwerea, tliat the point had already' been ruled in M'DI,.
verfus MDil.*
And, By :rJ-i
CoURT: The deed may be read in evidence;
torfthe recoiding does not contribute to the proof of the deed,
which
* Ast. 6a.

94
1784.
"
_

CAsEz ruled and adjudged &e.

which is ellablifhed by the oath before the juftice ; the recording
only gives the deed a fpecial operation.by the exprefs provifions of
the A&t of Affemblv.*

BURKE' ' Lefee verfus RYAN.
"E JECTMENT.-On the trial of this caufe, in deducing the
.,lplaintiffs' title, a theriff's deed was produced, but no part of
the record recited therein.
Sergeant contended, that if the title was fet forth, it was neceffary to prove every part of it; that between the parties, the Fi.fa.
and Ved. Exp. may only be fhewn ; but that againit a firanger, the
pleadings, verdi&, and judgmenti ought to be produced. Gilb. L.

tfE. 9 . 10.

On aquefton from the oppofite counfel, Sergant admitted that
in New-7erey, it was not the praaice to produce more than the
fheriff's deed ; but infifted that, of late, it had been frequently required, and that in ftri&nefs, it was indifpenfibly neceffary.
But, ]'B rT~i Cou~R :-As the poffeffion has gone more than
twenty years along with the deed, it is unneceffary, in this cafe, to
require farther proof. And the CHiEF'JusTiCE added, that within his knowledge, it had not been cufLomary, in any cafe, to pro.
duce the record.
Lewis and Mifflin for the plaintiff'.-rgeantfor the defendant.

HIGHT verfus WILSON.
Tf

HIS was a feigned ilTue to try the validity of awill, againft
the probate of which, a caveat had been entered in the Regifter's Office. The plea was infanity in the teflator ; and evidence
was given of habitual drunkenfie'rs,, old age, weaknefs -of -body,
lhortnefs of memory, and a few incoherent expreflions. The jury
however, in a very fhort time, gave a verdi& for the'plaintiff in the
iffue, who was the devifee in the will.
'The CHisF JUSTICE, in his charge to the jury, informed them,
ift. That it was not neceffary that a will, devifing real eftate in
this Commonwealth, fhould be fealed. 2d. Nor that all the fubfcribing witneffes hould prove the execution. 3d. Nor that the
proof of the will (hould be made by thofe who fubfcribed as witneffes. 4th. Nor that the will fhould be fubfcribed by the witneffes.f
HIGH
*This aure was tried at Carll/e N. P. 02 th '4th
M'IkEA3, C. 7. ATLZa and Rvm, _,,ftiat.
t Se*.fl Lwi, Appellaxt ,rf Mizrh Appellee.,

*ff,

ay 1154, beferc

