SUPRnE
VANHOR

's

COU9T C~Pfnn,9vianji~.

J

Lef/fe verJus HARRISON.

HIS was an ejeanient brought for a meffuage and plantation,
X in Benfalem Townfhip, in Bucks County. A cafe being
tated, it was thrice argued by Setgtant, and Bradford, for the plaintiff, and Lewls and fflilccks for the defendant.
The CHIE" JUSTICR now, recapitulated the material points, and
delivered the opinion ofthe Court as follows.
M-KEAN, Chief 7uflce. This caufe comes before the Court
on a cafe made for their opinion. The cafe is long, and has ftated
feveral parti-,lars, which can have bur little influence upon the decifiin.
The material fals are: That a certain Yohannes Fandegrift was
felzed in fee of the premifes in queftion, and, being fo feized, by his
laff will and-teftament in writing, dated the i6th i44arch 1732, devi fed the fame unto his eldeft on Abraham in fee-tail, with remainder in fee to all his other children. And aftc wards, by a deed or
infmtmefit in writing, fealed and deliverea, bring d.,te the 3rJ7 of
Augf0 1743, !' Incohfideration of natural a et un, h, gives, grants
&c. fully, freely, abfolutely and clearly, th," "amc premifes, to
his fon Abraham Pandgr t, together with all the rights, titles, intereft, claim, and dernand whatever, which he then had in
the faid granted premifes, or.any part thereof, To have and to
hold unto him only the faid Abrahuam Iandgrift?, without any
futther condition, as he had fully, freely and abfolutely, and of
" his own accord fet and put in further teftimony &c."
If this conveyance paffed a fee to the fon Abraham Pandegrift,
then-jvdgment muft be for the defendant; but if an eftatp for life
nly, then judgment muff befor the lefrors of the plaintiff: For,
fuppofA the will of _ohannes Pandegrift, which was executed prior
to the. conveyance,, is taken into the cafd, yet the fon Abraham had
thereby only an eftate-tail, which is fpent by his death, without
heirg of his body lawfully begotten.
When this cafe was firft argued, the counfel on both fides confidered it only in -two points of view, to wit, Fi, Whether the'
conveyance from 79hanhes Pandegrf./t to his fon braham was to'be
conflrued as an original conveyance at common law, or as a
covehant to fland feized to ufes ? And, fecondly, What was the
intention of the parties, as to the efate which was.to pafs ?
Mr. Sergeant contendedthat it was an original conveyance at common lavO, and let the intention of the parties be what it may, jt
could only pafs an eflfze tor life to the fon, for want of -proper
words of inheritance.
Meffrs. J''lcocks and 1 .- ,,is infifted that this deed muff be confidered,
a.covenant to fiarid fe- .,l to ufes, and that it fhould receive the like
conftruffion with a v.., that is, ;o be governed by the intention of
the parties. In fupport of their firfi pofitiqn, " that it muff be 1aIeo to be a coven;nt to ftand feized t-) ues," they cited. 2 J-r,[,,i
2. 7. Cafthew -8. C:mte,-ac-" i-8, S. C. tO ',91d. 35.- 26. I
S
.ikrs

t

1735-

139
785.

CAsEs rraled and adjiidged inthe

At.*yns8.
B I

d. 175. 2 Lvinz 10. 3 Levinz.3-2. 1 Bac.2 7 4. 1or
fecond pofition, theycited, Carlhew343. I Co. oo b. ioi a. Litfletn's Rep. 347. 5 Mod. 266. And they concluded, that if this inflrumert had been a will, it would appear manifelily to be the intetti2.
on of the parties to pafs a fee; for which they cited 6 Mod. x o9
rio. Cio. Car. 45o. i Ld. Raymond 187. 2 fr l.524.
Mr. Sergeant,in his reply, faid, that the deed of 1743 thuf operate as a
feoffment, and relied upon the following authorities. Co. Lit. 9. a.
i Vol. Pennfylvania laws pa. 78. Prec. in Chan. 58o. Lilly's Conveyance 613. 614. 646. 2 Inl. 672.
Upon hearing this argument, and reading the books that had
been cited on both fides, and full confideration of them, it appeared to me, that this deed, or inftniment, ought to be taken as a covenant to fiand feized to ufes, and that the law has been long fettled,
that a deed Ihail be cof'trued either as a common law conveyance
or a itatute convey,:. c, if it can be taken both ways, as will beft
tend to give it all t.e tdfec't the parties intended. This deed then
has every requifite neceffary to conflitute a deed of covenant to
fland feized to ufes. ifl. Here is a fufficient and proper confideration, viz. natural aff-&ion. A confideration may be either a good,
or a valuable one. A good confideration is that of blood, or natural
affedion, or love ; as when a man grants an eftate to a near relation, as in this cafe,. to his eldeft fon. Blood or marriage are the moft
common and fuit.tble confiderations in this fpecies of conveyance.
The valuable confideration is fuch as money, marriage, or any other
equivalent :iven for the grant. 2 Black. 297. 336. 2d. It is a
deed. 3 d. Johannes Vandegrift was feized in fee. 4 th. Here are apt
words to convey lands; and the word grant, which is in the deed,
has been adjudged in the cafe of PYikinfon's leffee vs Farmer &c.
(2 lYilfon 175. I Mod. 175) fufflcient, of itfelf, to create a covenant, and to raife an ufe. Thefe are all the circumfiances neceffairy to make a good deed of covenant to ifand feized to ufes.
As to the other point :--How this conveyance was to be conftrued, whether as a deed at common law, or, like a will, according to
the intent of the parties ? I was, at firfi, of opinion, from the general do&rine laid down in all the books cited at the bar, that the intention of the parties was to govern in the fame manner as in a
will;, and of that intention I had no doubt; for by the words ufed
in the premfes, if unroftrained by the /:at:.du,,, it appeared manifeftly, that 7okannes Pandegrift had g; .n all his right, title, interefi; claim and demand whatfoever, v;l.ich he had in th, land, unto
his fon .4braham, freely, abfolutely, an~d clearly &c. %hich words
i" a will would unqueftionably pafs a fee. But havirg, afterwards,
met with two cafes in 4 ifurn's Ecclefiaflical Lawpa. i1o. and i18.
I hefitated. A fecond argument was, theretore, had on the i8th
of December laft, when the queflion, that alone admitteA of controverfy to wit, how far this deed of covenant to fland feized to ufes,
41ould be conf'rued like a will, was fully confidered by Mr. Brad4rd. He contended, that it required fuch tectinical. words, as are

Sthe

ufcd

SuM

CouRT Of Penfylvala.

tifed and necerfary in deeds at common law fo pars an inheritance, 1785.
that in all deeds the word heirs is neceffary to pafs a fee; this is the
general rule, and though there are exceptions, yet this fpecies of.
conveyance to pfes is not among them; which appears ift, from
the filende of 'approved writers on this fubje&. To fhew which
he cited, 2 Black io8. Bac. Ahr. 252. 3. Comyn's Di&#?. 214,
ShepherdsTouchlone of aurances,fo. 1oL. (97, ofnew edition) Co. Lit.
9. 2dly. From a variety of exprefs and pofitive authorities. 3 Black.
.370. Co. 87 -b. Co. Lit. io. a. Shepherd's Touc f. io2. io6. i Gomyn's Dig. 543 x Co.'Rep. ioob. Gilbert's Ufes nd 5lru. s 75. 76.
And dy, that words, effential to convey a tee in a deed at commbn law, are neceffary fince the flatute of ufes, 27 Hen. 8 ch. io.
in a covenant to fland feized to ufes. To prove whichie cited
Bacon 357" 1 Rolls Abr.837. Cro. E. 478. 2 Lill. Reg. 112. Sir Thomas Raym. 37. 2 Ld. Raym. 115i. 2. 4. Uc.
We have fince heard the counfel for- the dcf'endant in anfl'er,
who chiefly dwelt upon th decd of 174.3 having a relation to the
eflate which the covenantor had, that he having a fee, had by relative words conveyed that fee to his fon ; and they relied upon 2
CGomyns 215. Shep. Touch7. ior. Co. Lit. 9. 1.
Upon the whole, THF COURT have, uninimoufly, formed the
fame c' inion as the Plainiff's counfel, after the molt mature confideration.
i,. This deed is a covenant to fland feized to ufes.
2. Before the flatute of ufes, viz. 27 Hen. 8. ch. io, this deed
would have paffed a fee, i C. Rep. 'oo b. Shaleys cafe, though the
word heirs is not init, But fince that flatute, the limitation of ufes
is in many cafes governed by the rules of common law; and no
inheritance, in a covenant'to fhand feizcd to ufes, or other deed to
ufes, can be raifed, or new eflate created, without the word Ie;rs;
becaufe the ufes are now transferred into poflflfion, and therefore
muft begoverned by the roles of poffeflon at common law. 5 .3,:con's.Ahr. 350. 356. and the cafes there cited. And at common
law, thotigh the intent of the parties be ever fo fully expreffed and
manifdled in a grant or other deed, without the word heirs, a fee
Thall not pals. 6 Mod. rog./2 P7ey 252. 1 ffilon 351. 2 BarkV.
. Reports.
3 dly. There are n6 words in this deed, either technical or relative, that can raile a. fee, and cbnftquently Abraham P'andegrift had
ther.by only an eftate for life in the premifes.
Let judgment be entered for t'he Plaintiff.

M'CULLP*iM ve fus COXE.

T"'J

jury were at the bar to try the ifibe in this cafe, w'en
Levy moved to difcontinue, in confequence of a power of attorney granted by the plaintiff for that purpofe. But it was oppofed by .ngerjoll in Dehalf of General Forman, to whom, for a valuable
S 2
confideratioa

