392

CASPs ruled

FARREL

and adjudged in the

verfus

M'CL.X.

T

HIS was an aaion brought by the Plaintiff to recover his
wages as mate of a veffel, of 'which the Defendant was mafter,
and one Sadffer was the owner. On the trial, it appeared, that-thc
Defendant, having cited the Plaintiff to fhew his caufe of a&ion,
acknowledged before the Judge at his chambers, that he was captain of the veffel during the time for which the wages were claimed;
but then he infifted, that he had never engaged the Plaintiff, who, as
he faid, was lhipped on a contra& with the owner. To prove the
time of fervice, the illowing certificate, fubfcribed by the Defendant was read:-c" Philadelphia,

Thefe ar

2th 7anuary; 178?.

.barrl .was mate
!..to certify to whom it may concern, that 'Juih
from the 06th June- to the 16tl Jugufl,
"on board tfie
1786,"making two months. Given under my hand, Robert
"'
M'Clea.-INB. At the wages of twenty dollars per month, at
"per Mr. $adlier's agreement."
7revy, for the Defendant, infifted, that the care, depending entircly on the confefflon of the party, the whole of it muft be taken
together ; Newman v. Brady. ant. 240. that then it would appear. as
well from the certificate, as from the acknowledgement before the
Judge, that the Plaintiff had been employed by the owner of the
veffel, and not by the captain -and, confequently, that the owner
He admitted, that
and not the captain was liable for the wages.
where a captain fhipped a failor, or ordered repairs; he was reIponfible; but he contended. that there muf'.be a fhipment by the
captain to charge him on the general principle ; DTug. 99. 1oo. and
that where the. captain, or the owner, undertakes by an aJuinwjt.,
either exprefs or implied, the other is difcharged. . Stra. 8b6. He
endeavoured alfo to eftablifh a diffin&ion between a mate and-the
common mariners, the mate being, he obferved, a midlecharaaer
between tlfe feamen and the captaih; and thence, he argued, that,
like the'captain, he was not entitled to the advantages which the
maritime law provides for the feamen. 12 Mod. 440.

Mqylan, for the Plaintiff, fiated, that mariners had a threefold
fecurity ior their wages:-ift, They may proceed againf the opners; 2dly, They -may libel the veffel; or, 3dly, They may fle
the captain. He raid, that th" captain was not bound to receive
any failors fbipped by the owners; becaufe he was not only liable
to the owners. but to ftrangers, for any wrong that they might
do when fhipped; but, he contended, that, if the captain did receive them, he made himfelf'liable for their wages ; 1a M4d. 434:
and he anfivered the authorities cited for the Defendant, by thowing,
that they were cares of repairs, where workmen were employed. by
the owners, ahd could not be rejeted or difmilfed by the captain ;
,nor was he anfwerable for their condu&.-Thit the contrat was,
in fa&, made by the owner,, he obferved, refted entirely on the
teflihnony oi the Defendant; and he urged the necellity of great.
-

caution

CoURT of C 'MZON PLrAS of Philadephia C&unty.

393

caution in admitting the allegations of a man in his own favour.
Dgug. 75r. 753. Receiving them, however, in their fulleft extent on this occafion, they only proved that the owner had affifted
in procuring thp mate to embark, and this could never defeat the
triple right with which the law had armed him.
SairPPN, Prefident, in delivering the charge ot the Court, adverted to the. nature of the evidence on which the cafe was eftab]ifhed, and inftru&ed the Jury to, take the whole together, unlefs
they fhould think, that there were circumatances in the Defendant's
confefliou, which rendered the part in his own favor inconfiflent or
improbable.
But, even admitting the fa&, that the Plaintiff had been hipped
by the owner, his Honor fiated, that the captain was liable; for,
the law gave the Plaintiffa threefold remedy to recover his wages ;
and, unlefs by fome pofitive aft, or word, he had releafed (as he
might do) one ofthofe remedies, a m-re compliance with the folicitation 6f the owner to embark, cannot defeat them. He flaid
there was no diftin&ion, in this refpe&, between the mate and a
common mariner; they were alike fubjea to the orders of the captain, who could equally refufe to receive either, -or, when received,
was equally empowered to difinifs them; for, his appointment as
captain gave him the fole, undoubted, and exclufive right ol choofing every feaman under him, whatever curtefy he might be indined to thew to the recommendation of.thofe by whomi he was
hinfelf employed.
With regard to the cafe of repairs, the PRESIDENT obfervt d, that
it was not Ilri&ly analogois to that of feamen's wages, but ft6od on
this fjotin:-Jf a veffel is in port, where the owners refide, and
they, without the interpofition of the captain, employ carpenters, &c.
to repair her, the captain is not liable ; not merely becaufe he
does not employ them, but, .becaufe he is not anfwerable for their
condu& when employed. But if a veffel is repaired in a foreign
port, then, indeed, a fimilitude arifes between the cafes, and the
captain is as liable for thofe repairs, as for the wages of his failors,
becaufe the workmen, as well as the failors, are, -in the latter -infiance, empl6yed by him, and equally fubje6t to his controul and
difmifflion.
The opinion of the Court was, conclufively, that, if the mate
had ferved on board the veffel, tie captain's having admitted him
to do fo, rendered him liable for the payment of the wages.
And the Jury, accordingly, found a verdi& for the Plaintiff.
CAMP

verfus

LOCKWOOD,

"'HE Plaintiffand Defendant had both been inhabitants of Conicut previous to the revolution, when the debt, for which
:Ius a&ion is brought, was alledged to be contra~ted, and continued

T

Ddd

f.

