OYER and TERMINER,

&C.

at Philadelphia:
O&ober Seffions, 1784-

RESPUBLICA

verfus KEATING.

LUKE KEATING was indi&ed for forging a promifory

lote
John
of
indorfement
forged
a
with
Meng,
payable to "ohn
Meng ,Co.-Lewis, for the defendant, obje&ed to the admiflion
of Meng s teftimony ; contending, that if Meng could prove that the
note was falfe, it would difcharge him from the payment; and if
he proved it-to be a genuine note, his evidence might 'e given
againfi him in a civil ation founded upon the note ; in either event
he was an interefted witnefs, and, confequently, an incompetent one.
uSalk. 283. .Hardr.331. 2,Hawk. 433. Stra. 728. 1643. 1104.
Ingerfol (who profecuted on this occafion for the Aitor'ey General)
argued, that, to prevent an interruption and failure of juftice, and
the efcape of offenders, the injured perfon was in all cafes of inEvid. pl. 26.
di&ment a com.petent witnefs. Vent. 49- 78. Vin. tit.
-2, SIra. 1229. and .Abraml 'vs Bwin eftablifh this do&rine.
4 Burr. 2252. He infifted that the evidence given by Meng on
the prefent trial could not affect him in a civil adion; and obferved, that if any thing relative to the civil affion fhould.decide the
cafe before the court, the probability was, that l'Ieng's teftimony
would be favourable to the prifoner; for if Meng fwears the note
to be falfe, he can gain nothing; but if he proves it to be true, lie
tefrifies againft his own intereft.
Lewis, in reply, acknowledged that the evidence given on this
trial, could not be offered in favour of Meng on another; but he
urged, that if the note itfelf were proved.to be forged, it might be
detained by the court and not fuffered afterwards to be fuedt;theon

COURT of O'Er ndT

M-1NER &C.at Pha

hia.

]Inr

the fame principle that it is raid in 6 Co. 45. (,the court wl damn
a bond, on which the obligee has recovered.".'
M'KEAN, Chief '.uflice. The court will not detain a note or
bond in the circumitances mentioned., With refpe& to the competency of the witnefs, I remember a cafe before CHEW, Chief.Ju.lice, where one Chap;nanwas indi&ed for playing with falfe dice,
and the perfon cheated was admitted to be a witnefs. On the authority of that decifion, in a recent trial at Lancafler,the injured party was allowed to give evidence, after a full argument upon the
prefent objeaion. We have, therefore, no doubt that Meng is a
competent witaefs.
RESPUBLICA

verfus

DE LONaCHAMPS.

C HARLES JULIAN DE LONGCHAMPS, commonly cal-

led the Chezialier De.Longchamps, was indi&ed, that,, he on
the 17 th 6f-May, 1784, in the dwelling-houfe of his Excellency the French Minifler Plenipotentiary, in the prefence of Francis Barbe Marhids, unlawfully and infolently did threaten and
"menace
bodily harm and violence to the perfon of the faid Francis Barhe Marhois, he being Conful General of France to the
" United States, Conful for the State of Pennfylvania, Secretary of
" the French Legation &c. refident in the houfe aforefaid, and
" under the prote&ion of the law of nations and this Common" wealth."
And that "afterwards, to wit on the i th of May in
" the public f reet &c. he the faid Charles Julian de LongchamPs unlawfully, premeditatedly and violently, in and upon the perfon of the
faid FranclsBarbeMarhos under theprote&ionofthelawsof
natibec of this Commonwealth, then and there
t s, and in thee
" ing, an affault did make, and him the faid FrancisBarbe Marbois
and violently
frike the
and peace
otherwife
in violati*.evonnlawfully
of the laws
of nations,didagainf
and &c.
dignity
of th

:

€United States and of the Commonwealth of Pennflvana."-To
thefe charges the defendait pleaded nt guilty.
The evidence, in fuoport of the irff Count, was, that on the 17th
of May, De Longchampfs went to the houfe of the Minif'cer of France,
an after rome converfation With Monfleur Marbois, was heard to
exclaim in a loud and menacing tone, "7e vus d n
Pon
,
Co-uin", addrefing himfelf to that gentleman. That the noie be-in
heard by the Minifter, he repaired-to the room from which it if-.
fued, and that in his prefence the defendant repeated the infult offered to .Minfiur ~2'4arroisin nearly the fame terms.
In fupport of the fecond Count, it appeared, that D Longcamps
and Motniur Marhos, having met in Market Street, near the Coffee
Houfe, entered into a long 'converfation, i
e courfe of which, the
latter faid that he would complain to the civil authority, and the
former replied, "you are a Blackguard." The witnells generally
depofed that De ngchaps ftruc k the cane of Monfiur Marbos,
b-fore

1784.

