3]
t798.

:.C

sES .ruled and adjudged in -the

therfumionednorprefet. If he had been prefent, he might pofiby
urged fuch arguments, as would have induced the inquefi. tO
have put a higher elimate, orvalue, upon the premiffes, andan 6pportunity ought to have been given to him for that purpofe.
5. As to the Afih exception ; there does not appear to be fuflicient certainty in the fentence of the Court ;. inafinuch as the purparts of the'valuation money are not fpecified, nor the time of payment fixed. But this Court might reduce both thefe points to certainty, were there no other exceptions; and, in that cafe, thewhole
coft.!of the appeal would fall upon the Refpondent.
6. On thefixh eyception, i e mufl obferve, that the prafice in
the Orpban's Courts has been to dire&~t the fame inqueft, which is appointed to make a partition of real efltate, if that cannot be done
without prejudicing the whole, then to make the valuation. This
Court, therefore, will not now undertake to alter this long eflablifhed praaice, though it'is liable to fome exceptions. But we are of
opirion, that the lee in the premilles cannot yet be vefted in Thomas
Willis, as he neither paid, nor fecured the payment of the valuation
money to thofe who are entitled to receive It,
Upon the whole, let dhe fentence and decree of the Orphani
ic-ourt be reverfed.

Shave

RESPUBLICA

vef2us

CAMPBELL.

HIS was an inquifition of Forcible Entry &c. taken before two
Juftices of Lancafler counr. The proceedings being removed
by certiorari into this Court, Bradfordnow moved that they might
be qiafhed ; and 1hewed for caufe, that the Defendant is flated in
the inqueft- to have been pfffeid, but no elfate, or term is laid ;
which, he faid, was adjudged to be infufficient in a cafe of Re"publica verfus Scott, the Court there obfe.rving thai Hawkins was exprets, that an inquifition of Forcible Entry &c. will not lie in the care
of a tenant at Will.
BI" THE COURT: Let the proceedings be quafled.

Ross; ve-fus

F

CLARKE.

OREIGN attachrnent.-Clake, the Defendant in this cafe, had
] obtained judgment upon afcirefacias againi. Rojf, the Plaintiff,
as fpecial bail of one Miunro; and a flay of proceedings was entered
untill the enfuing term, when Rofs was to pay the money recovercd
into Court, it before that time the original debtor had not fatished the
dbt. The lay being elapfed, Roji paid the inoney, but, upon .n
apprehenfion that payment might have been made by Munro, thoug h
no accounts were received of it, he mined iarely ihfued thisforeign ateachrnent ag.inft Carke, and laid it in the hands of the Protborotarp
Or.

