SUPREME COURT of

Pennfylvania.

.pril Term, 1788.

HOLINGSWORTH

verfus OGLE.

et. al.

THIS
was an affion of debt brought upon a bond, dated the
7une, 1779; the penalty of the bond being in"

5 th
C 2oo hard
Money computing half Joes at X 3 ;" and the condition, for the
payment of "the full-and j uft fum of i.
ioo hardMmney, or Specie,
computing -half Joes at £ 3 ; on the expiration of five rears, from
the date, with lawful intereft &c." The Defendants pleaded Payment,
to which th. Plaintiff replied, Non S'overunt, and iffue was thereupon joined.
It appcared at the trial, that the. bond was given in confideration
of a"fim of I 50 Continental Currency, lent by the Plaintiff to the
Defendants in June, 1779, when the fca.-s of depreciation eflimates
tkat money at twenty for one.
Ingerfol and Sergeant, for the Defendants, contended, that the
Plaintiff's demand was of 'anufurious nature, and fo unreafonable,
that it ought not in equity and good confcience to be allowed.
They admitted, that the Jury could not fett afide the contraat of the
parties; but infifted, that they might, and in this cafe ought to
give only damages, according to what was juft and reafonable ; and
that they were not bound to find the furri expre ed in the bond. z
Fern. 402. 121. 1 Atk. 351. 2. Kaims Princ.; Eq, 7o . 2 Ey.
.dhr. 186. pl. 9. 2 Vern. 14- 1o Md. 503.
Lewis, for thePlaintiff-This is an a&ion of debt upon a bond, and,
therefore the cafe ot damages is not applicable, uinlefs the Jury fhall
think proper to give any thing beyond the penalty. There is nothing ufuriois or unreafonable in the contra& ; for, at the expiration of the five years, in which the bond was made payable, if the
continental money had appreciated, the Plaintiff would have been a
confiderable lofer. Befides, an' Aft of Affembly declared, that a
K -k
ontinental

58
1783.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

continental dollar f1rul.d be equal to gold and filver; and the me.
being a legal tender when lent, the Deifendant may have paid a
h.ney,
fpecie d~bt with it. Nor can a queftion of ufury be confidered in
this a6ion ; for, the AS of AffemblY does not make the contra&
,void on that account, as the EnglF/l/ ftatute does, but only infii~ls a
forfeiture, equivalent to the money or other article lent, which
muff be recovered iaanother fuit. In the cafe of Lee vs. Biddis, ant.
175. this Court refufkd to letin evidenceto fhew what was meant by
cyrrent lawful Money, expreffed in the contraS, becaufe it would
tend to contradi6l, not only the contraS, but likewife the Af of
Affembly eftablifhing the fcale. Here tlhe contra& is exprefly for
the payment of hard .lZoney, and as the law only fixes a fcale for the
payment of contrafs in continental Mcney, where no Tnder has ben
made, the Jury cannot fet afide the folemn a& of the parties, but
ought to find a verdiS generally for the Plaintiff. 2 State Lau's 7.
448. 494. z State -Laws 120.
M'KAN, Chief .7uflice. The Plaintiff flates that the Defendants owe him 10oo, and in order to prove his allegation, he produces their bond, dated on the 5 th of Januay, 1779, payable five
years afterwards, that is, on the 5 th of June, 1784, In anfwer to
this demand, the Defendants have pleaded Payment (which in fuch
cafes, is made the general iffue by alaw of this State) and they have
fhewn in fupport of their plea, that the bond in queftion was given
in confideration of £ 5oo of continental paper, lent by the Plaintiff
to the Defendants, at their inftance, when it was worth no more
than at the rate of twenty continental dollars for one in fpecie.
Upon thefe circumftances it is to be determined, how much, if any
thing, the Plaintiff ought to recover in the prefent afion.
In cafes for which the pofitive law has clearly and exprefly provided, it is the duty of Courts-and Juries to be governed in their decifions, by the rule that is there prefcribed ; for Courts of Chancery,
and the generalprinciples of equity, 'can never be allowed to contradiS or defeat the exprefs provifions of a ftatute: And even where
there is no A& of Alfembly to dire& us, the common law, recognized and afcertained by the adjudications of the Courts upon the fame
fubjeS, often furniflies a guide to which we are bound to yield at-.
tention and obedience ; for, the maxim is certainly juft, that it is
better the law fhould be determinate and fixed, although it were originally erroneous, than that it fhould be precarious and fiu&uating,
according to the different talents -nd difpofitions of the Judges' who
are appointed to adminifter it. ,But, in the prelent cafe, "the pofitive iavw is filent; and, though many authorities in the books have
been refered to, "notone has been difcoverd, which is ftritly analogous to the queftion under our immediate confideration. There.
is, iideed, an A& of Affembly, paffed on the 21ft of 7une, i781
2 State Laws 494. the 5 th felion of which feems to relate, in fome
degree, to the prefent controverfy, when it ena&s, that" all debts
- .&c. granted and contra6led for by any deed, will &c. fince the
•"iflday of .anuary, 1777, which were expreffed to be aid and
.difcarped

SUPREMzFt

COURT

Of Pennfy7Vania4.

9

difcharged in any foreign money, or in gold or filver money of aJay denomination, or in bullion, orin any commodity, and which
" have not fince been paid and fatisfied or difcharged, fhall be
" deemed,conftrued and taken to be yet due and owing from debtors
to creditors, in fuch money or other commodity, as in the fai'd
, contra& were expreffed, and the-fame may be fued for and re" covered in any Court &c. in fo much gold or filver money as fhall
be equal in valueto the debt or duty, according to 'the contrae."
But the meaning of this feaion (arid in the interpretation of laws,
recourfe muff always be had to the-'meaning of the Legiflature) is only this; that, where a'contra& had been made for payment in fpecie,
in foreign gold, in bullion, or in any fpecific commodity, the creditor is entided to recover according to the ftipulations of that contra&. This therefore, does not reach the prefent point; for, although the bend is payable in hard money, the difpute arifes upon the
diual depreciation, which rendered
500, continental money of
confiderably lefs real value, at the time of entering into ths Contra7,"
notwithifanding the laws of the State hdd declared it to be equivalent
to fpecie, of any denomination then circulating. If, indeed, this
had been a bond for the payment of continental mnoneys there is no
doubt that, by the A& of Affemblyjuft cited, only fo much hsecie,
as tht £ 5oo was really worth, could' be recovered by the Plainti:f;
but it is a bond for the payment of hard Money, in confideration of
a loan of continentalMoney, and hence the diilicuity occurs.
It is unneceffary to review all the authorities that have been read,
from the different reports of decrees in chancery; which have, in
general, proceeded upon the ground either of fraud, of furprize, of
the fuggeflion of a falfehood, of the fuppreflion of a truth, or of the
unreafonable and unconfcionable nature of the contra& itfelf. The
]aft of thefe being the only cafe that. can be applicable to the fubje&
before us, our enquiry is reduced to one point, to wit, whether the
contraS now litigated is fo unreafonable in its nature, at to have become iniquitous, and, therefore, ought not to be countenanced in a
Court of Jpce ? The arguments aK-pear to be ftrong-or, both fides,
particularly in the two cafes, which have been eppofed to each other, by the contending council. On the one hand, where a man
has borrowed, £ ooo in continental money wyhich, lefore the day
ot payment, had unexpetedly rifen feventy-fold in value, it would
certainly he hard to compel him to reirr, £ 70,Coo, for.the ufe ct
the £ rooo which he received: And, on the other hand, it is equally
true, that where . 500 continental money has been loaned in conlf.
deration of a bond 1or £ 1oo fpecie,. the lender can never claim any
more than the lai: mentioned him, though a change in the public'
credit and circumitances, fhould have made the . 5oo continental
money equal to fpecie, and by -hat means he has Ii.itained a lofs of
the difference between the two fums.
It is likewife to be confiderzd chat when the contra& was entered
into between the Plaintiffand D.--fend-ints, the paper medium of tho
United States was in a very I1u0t:iming condition ; ad, though
K
th

/

t6o
L788.

rted
.,CASES
-and adjudged in the

the-event has lhewn the fallacy of the opinion, there were not wanting many good and intelligent men, who frongly maintained, that
the continental money would eventually be redeemed, according to
its nominal value. This far, however, is. clear, that the law,, at
that time, did not acknowledge the current depreciation; fo that the
Defendant might legally have fatisfied any fpecie debt, with the mohiey which the Plaintiff had advanced. Nor was it then cufl.omary to
lend merely for the. intereft; but a praffice had prevailed of making
loans upon bonds payable in dollars, or for bills of exchange payable
in France; and, although very ufurious and exhorbitant profits were
thus accumulated; yet it is Laid (and I believe it to be true) that there
was no law that could p'revent, or fupprefs the mifchiet. Jndeed,
after much confideration, this Court entertains the opinion, that
there would not be anything illegal in taking a bond for £'2oo of the
laft'fate emifflon of bills of credit,. when only.f ioo had been lent;
for that paper-moneyis only made a tender and payinent of debts doe
tothe Commonwealth, and, in every otherrefpe&, muft be corifidred merely as an article ofmerchandize. ' But the cafe before us, is of
another nature; it is that of a bond payable in hardMoney, given in
confideration of a fum lent in continental Money, which the law then
declared to be, in+all cafes, a good and fufficient tender and payment.

Since; therefore, we have no rule to guide us, but the exercife of
a legal difcretion, it may be proper to reflet, that it will be as inconfiflent with equity to give too little, as to give too much. If
the.Plaintiff's demand would amount to feventy ora hundred fold tiIe
value of the money he advanced; it would, perhaps, be wrong to allbw
it; butwhethera lefs, and what,fum would be an unreafonable profit,
tut depend upon a c6nfiderai i6n of the advantage which the Defendant might have derived from the loan, ih'e lofs which 'the Plaintiff
might have fuflained, thelength of the credit given upon the bond,
and the poflible "infolvency of the obligors. Thefe circumfiances
certainly entitle the. Plaintiff to fomething moxe than the common
intereft of money.;-what advance 'a Court of Chancery would de-

cree; we cannot afcertain .vith precifion ; but, it feems, that moie
than,doble the film, has been generally determined to be unreafon.ible and uriconfcionable.
The Court, upon the whole, are unanimoufly of opinion, th:it
in ana&ion of debt, 'biought upon a bon'd," and'where the illti' is
oined bpo" a" plea o! payment, the Jury may, and ought to plrefhme every thing to have been paid, which ex equo tt bono, in equity
and good confcience, ought not to bepaid. Such is the current of'the
determinations in the ouirt of Chancery of England; and the fame

•principle is recognized in the cafe of MoNs and Mi' Farlan;
2 Burr. ioo5. for, though the Courtsof Juftice cannot alter or defiroy the contra& ofthc parties, they may interpofe to render it conformable toreafon, juffice, and coulcience.
RusH, and BRYAN, Juflices, concurred.
The Jury found a verdi& for the Plaintiff in the fum of£ 76. 1o.
with fix-pence ccfls.
CHAPMAM

