HIGH

COURT

APPEALS,

of ERRORS and

of Pennfylva'nia :

April Seffions,

MONTGOMERY

T

verfus

178o.

HENRY

et al.

HIS cafe, which was an appeal, from a decree in the Adm
ralty, having been elaborately argued on the 6th of My, the

PRESIDENT delivered the opinion of the Court.

REED, Pr6/ident:-The cafe upon which we are now to give our
judgment, comes before us under the following circumftances:Captain Mntgomery was mafter and commander of the fhip, called
the General Greene, defigned for a voyage to Marinmica. While the
fhip lay in th& river, a fevere froft happened, which occafioned
a great delay, and the owners thought proper to alter their plan.
Differences then.arofe; they difmift Capt. Mdntgmery, and took
the
1hip from
him. Upon
thisinjury,
he preferred
of
.ddmiraly,
complaining
of the
as donehisto libel
him in
in the
the Court
p~ort of
Philadelphia, and within the jurifdipion of the Court of Adofralty.
The anfwer of the owner to the libel is, that they had a right to
their
when
and that
are willing
tremove
o pay him
anycaptain
damages
he they
may pleafed,,
have received
by thethey
removal.
of within the Admiralty jurifdi.ion? Secondly, On
Two general queftions arife: arfIs
the merits,
the matter
comllained
hi.
the owners a right to remove Capt. Montgomery?.,
Theof frl
queftioncognizance
is fiubdividedof into
Court
others.
Admir'alty
Firft-Had
the
thistwo
caufe,
confierin.
theplace
where the offence is eharged to have
fruje7 maer of Admiralty co gnizance been done ?-Seondy, Is"the.
All the proceedings are laid to have taken place
within the por of
Philadelphia.
The
refp~ondents
fay,
the river 1dawre is -not
within the Admralty jurifdiPion, andth:t
to pr.ve
this, thy cite
R m.
y453.-But, it appears to us, that, from the i.th ai.1 Ld.
r 5 th
Rich.ad. the Admiralty has had jurifdiaion on
-1 waters out of the
body of the: counity.-Therc hais
re a
to hat i
SG
lleant

50
i78o.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

meant by highfeas.-A road, haven, or even river, not within the

~ body ofthe county, is highfea, itithe idea of Civilians. Therefore,if the river Delaware is out of the body of any coufity, we think it
clear, that it is within the AddMrzrally jurifdiaiqn.- And the Court
would endeavour to enlarge its jurifdi&ion, rather than a place
fhoulJ remain fubje& to no tontroul. The place when the fa&f
w.s done which is complained of as~an injury, is exprefsly alledged
in the libel, to be within. the- urifdiclion of the .4nriraly.This is not contradilea in the anfiver; and we mufr take up the
matter as it ftands upon the libel, not on the evidence; becaufe
thers is no opportunity to traverfe. On this point, therefore, we
rather incline to lav, the jurifdiaion is well laid.
'But what we found our decree upon, -is-the other particular, the
Juljefi mater.-It has been contended by the council for the refpondents, that the Court of .ldmniralty cannot carry an agreement into
fpecific execution ; and, alfo, that this is never done, even in
a Court of Chancery, for one party, unlefs they could do it
for the other, in cafe they wiihed for a fpecific -performance. To
this, it has been anfwered, that otherWife there is no compleat
remedy.
It was obferved, by one of the council for the refpondents, that
it is dificult to know in what light to confider the application in
this inftance. It appears to us, however, that it can bq confidered
in'no" other light, than as an application to compel a fpecific performance of an agreement: And to fhew that this can be done by
a Court of dmiralty, Vent. 32 was cited; where, it appears, that
a mafter of a veffel in Spain, had been obliged to take on board his
veiel forty butts of wine. But the determination of the Admiralty
in England feems to be rather out of iefpe& to the foreign court,
than from an opinion, that they could do this by viftue of their atthority oiiginally; for, it is' introduced by faying, that the judgment of a foreign court ought to be fupported, even as to what
might not be cognizable originally there.
It has been faid that the Court of Admiralty a&s in rem, that is,
only to make the objeds of difpute refpoiifible. This, however, is
a confidential truff, and we fee no inflances of any fuch jurifdiction. Does the marler lhip himfelf on the credit of the fhip? No:
It is no more than a contra&. Whether the docrine of mutuality
of rehiedie be a fixed rule in the Court of Chancery, I am not altbgeth'er certain ; but it is reafonable that the parties hould ftand on
an equal footing. No fuch remedy tould b6 obtained by. the owners againif the captain. - It is faid he might be attached if he failed
of his duty ;-fo might the owners ;-fill the 1hip would be liable
as againft the owners. Indeed, I know of no cafe where an dtiachment has iffued, unlefs for fome contempt; nor does Cart.ew
contradia this.
If the libel is confidered as complaining of a Trerfpafs, inflead of
demanding performance otthe agraement, I do not fee that this will
.help,the Appllant; for, an Admiralty Court carinot.give damages.

Th is

HIGH COURT of Ewtoas and APPEALS of Prnnfylvania.

51

This feems to be afligning to this Court a jurifdi&ion which it
has not. We are, therefore,. unanimoufly, of opinion, that fRom
the obje& of the libel it cannot be fupported.
As to the other point, the difmiffion of the captain, we 'are of
opinion, that upon 'a general retainer, for no particular voyage,
the captain- may be" difmiffed gt any time without caufe afligned;
but that where there i6 a charter party, bills of lading, and a particular voyage &greed upon, though the owners may difmifs the captain, yet they would be liable in a Common Law Court. Sufticions mightprobably be fufficient to-dicharge, without proofs; but,
if the difrmiflion Ihould appear. to have been a wanton abufe, the Jura would give great damages, otherwife, little or, as the. circum.
ances might be-nothing.
We therefore affirm the Dicrttwitb Cos.

1 78o.

-

