730

CASES

ruled and adjudgec in the

no exceptions to the report h.d been filed in writin-, which thie
contended ought to hve been done, within four days fiLnr
the entry of the judgment n4p. Leuws admitted, that where the
exceptions arofe from fals, fuch as milbehaviour of the referrees,.
want of notice &c. it was neceilar.y that they thould be in writing;
but infifted, that where the objeafions arofe from the face of the report, as in the prefent cafe, and depetided upon conftruaion of law,
there was no fuch necellity. And ai.Lordlngly I HE COURT p.rmitted him to proceed
He took three exceptions:
ift. The a& of Ailfembly giving references by rule of Court in
affions depending, puts the report of referrees on the fame footing
precifely with the verdi6t of a-jury. Now, in Trovera verdi& can
never be for reftoration of the fpecific chattlks, btit for damages only,
and fuch a verdi& woufd be error: therefore he inferred tho fame
law in the cafe of a report.
2dly. The report, on the face of it, fhews the a&ion of the plairitiff to be illegal-for Pawnee has a right to detain his pledge, until
payment of the fum for which the pledge was given; and until
fuch payment, Pawner can have no adion to recover the thing
pawned, or damages. Now the report finds £3, due from the
plaintiff to the defendant, which at once defeats his right of a&ion,
and ihews that judgment fhould be for the defendant.
3dly. A report- fhould be fuch a one as that the Couirt may give
judgment-and award execution thereon. Judgment cannot be for
both plaintiffand defendant on one iffue; and this report gives
fomething to each-It is a report on both fides-Judgment and execution can be .only for one.*
THE C'URT inclined firongly to be of opinion with Lewis,
particularly on the firft
point; but no judgment was given, that the
parties njight if they would, accommodate the matter by a new reference: and, accordin.ly, it was afterwards referred de nvvo.

CARREW

ver$us WILLING.

APIAS -to _7ine, 178 . The Bail bond rued to &eptenthr,
b74.;
and December 128 ,judgment was figned on the bail bond
fuit. n4r fp-_.ial b ilfiled in 3o days. Default was made in filing
fpeciai bai, and aft: fet: iietd to 7une z 85.
The
' Mr. Leuwh mentioned, that on a former argument of this cattfe, this execept n. was evminated by an ohf-rvation th" tven if judgment could not be entered
ex the re!port accordinp o the common forms, yet the reference being made under the eye of the Court, they wnuld grant an attachment to compel compliance
with the report, and the cafa nf Raloan vs Stewvart was mentioned, where the Supreme Court it'was faid,
eflablilhcd this poi..t.
Time had been given to the plain-

tips Counfal to fcarch for notes of this eafc; and no note being now produced,
Mr. L;wh raid, that although he was concerned in that caufe with the gentleman
-who cited it (Mr "Sergeant) yet he could not remember that Any fuch point had
been adjudred, and contended that the ad of Atlhmbly gave no fuch authority,
and that no inflance of fuch an attachment had ever been knows in eur praaice.

COU'RT of COMMONT PLEAS, Philade&ia County.

131

And now, .uguf 8, 1785, Sitgreaves filed defendant's affidavit of
-jufl defence, and obtained a,rule t, ihew caufe, why the proceedings in the bail bond fuit fhould, not be flayed on 'paying cofls,
pieading iffuably in the original aaion, taking 1hort notice of trial,
a'd confenting that the judgment on the b. I bond fhould itand as
a fecurity. He.cited .Barnes's notes 74. Bfrch vs Graves. 1b. 85.
Otway vs Cockayne. Ibid. 91. Seaber s Powell. Ibid i12. Morley
vs Carr.
On the x3 th of Auguf#, Srgeant, for the plaintiff, hewed caufe
but, after argument, the *ule was made abolute.
CAAPBELL

verfus RICHARDSOX,

HT'NE Defendant had bee",bail for his brother, who fuffering
X judgment to 'go againft him, a Scire facias was iffued againit
the defendant, and In due crurfe judgment thereon-In the-interim,
between the recognizance of bail and judgmenf on the &ire Jtczas,
feveral judgments were obfained agaiiit the detendant by his proper creditors, executioris ifued, and his real egate was feized and
l'oldr But the proceedts not being fufficient to fatisfy all the judgments, the Sheriff brought thl morey into Court, to be ditpofed
of as the Court fhouln dire&.
Sergeant, for the plaintiff Campbell, infifled, that recognizance of
bail, is a lien upon the land fron the date .f tjie recognizance, and,
therefore, claimed a preference to all judgments afterwards obtained,
although, they might be previous to the judgment o~i the Seer€ Ja.asNHe cited to this purpofe, Seat. 29. Car. 2.' t9.
2 Bac.
dbr. 363. 365. 10 Fin. 559- 563 2 Salk. 564. Cro. Elz. 551.
Ingerfol, on the contrary contended, that Campbell fhould only
have preference from the date of the judgment on the Stire facias;
and. argued from the flatute of frauds and our a& ofAffembly afcera;iliing the mode of paying the debt of decedants, a~ad cited I Peer
Wins. 333. Cro. Jat. 449.
After conrfideration, the PREsSIDE1T delivered the opinion of
the Court, on. the 26th of Auguft.
SHIPPr'x, Prefdent.-This is a queftion concerning the binding
nature of a recognizance o.' bail, as to the lands of the bail; and
whether, in Penfylvania, a prior recognizance creditor, or flubfequent
judgment credit)rs, ihall have the prexerenze.
From the cafes citcd, it appears, that, although lands in England
are bund by recognizance; yzt there is fome uic rtainty as to the
time from which they are bound : whether irom the captin, or from
the inrollment of the recognizance; orfrom ihe judgmint againt' the
principal ; or froill a tion ejl invwntus retu. ned upon the Ga, 4a. And,
fcveral of'the cafes wich mention that i nds are bound upon the
R- 2

cai.tiWt

1785
.

