COURT of COMM oN PLEAS of Phi;adehia C;uivt,.

34-7

1788.

M'K

o verjus

CRAwFORD.

I

N this caufe there was a rule to try next term, or non pros; the
term being clapfed, Levy; at the fettlement of the docket, fi ned the non pros in the Prothonatary's office; apd -now Armirong
moved to fet-it afide.'
SHIPPEN, Prfident :-This is not like a rule to plead, or declare; for, a trial is'a thing thqt muff be in the face of the country.
A !von pros of this kind, ought, .therefore, to be moved for in
Court, when the Plaintiff may affign reafons fot the'delai of trial

THE COuRT feemed fatisfied that the non pros ought to be fet afide, but at the requeft of Levy, who thought he could produce fome
authorities on the fubje&, they only granted a rule to flhew caufe &c.
The rule, however, was afterwards made abfolute.-

GEYER verj'is SMITH-

T

HE referees, appointed in this caufe, applied to the Court for
ihtruaions on a point of law, in order to guide them in
making their report.
But, BY'THE CouRT,--The referees. muft firif exercife their
judgment upon the lights they have received; and the queffion,
being afterwards brought regularly before i1s, we will determine,
whether they have edright, or not. I t would not only be an inconvenient pralice,' but, in a great degree (leftrud.ve of the principleandufes ofa rqerence, iffuch appizations were to be complied
with; and, therefore, we think it is proper to avoid eftablithing
a precedent. *"
PE-NMAN

h Afterwards, in Yune term 1789, the poit of law was argued on the report of
the reftrrees. The aaion was brought againft the Defendant as adniniftrator of
.Rloert Smith on a bond taken by Gyr from the adminifltator for the inteflate's
debt, naming hirmfclf adminifirator. The queftion was, whether the.PlaintitT, on
tlhe 'judgment againft the adminflratr on this bond, could take the eflate "cf the
int f.ate in execution ?
It was argued by Sergeant, Fi/jer, and Whilon, that he could not; it being the
proper debt of the Defendant himfelf, and they cited fe'veral authorities.
lrgereol, on the part of the Plaintiff, faid, that on caafdtring the law, he had no
encouragement to argue it.
SnipprN, JPrefident. The oafe having been broke at the ]alt Court, I have
looked in:o the point, and find other cafes than hfe cited at the bar, which
fhew, that a creditor taking a bond from the executor or adminiflrator, d.fcharges
the old debt ; that the calling himfelf executor, or zdminflrator, in the bond, is
furplufage, and that he is chargeable only in his own right, x M3d. -z1 zo
Alod. 254. Cre. El. 406. 9 Co. 93" 'fin. Ex. 304.

