SUPRUMt COURT ot

Pnvfylvema,

7

fames Steel," 6ered to be given in Evidence as the Foundation of
the Defendant's Title. Obje&ed, oh the Part of the Plaintiff, that
James Steel by his Order only, without a Warrant from the Proprietors or the Commiffioners of Property, could not authorife the
Location of Lands: And even fuppofing it to amount to an Order
.from James Logan hinofelf, as he was only one of three Commiffi6ners, fuch Order cannot be a fufficient Warrant.
"¢

BUT THE COURT

faid, that under thefe Sort of Orders from the

Proprietor's Officers, a great Part of the Province had been fettled,
and that for the general conveniency they had been heretofore allowed to be given in Evidence, and particularly in .iI'fDnuall's Care.
.pril Term, a Letter from Richard Peters SecreIn that Cafe, laft1
taiy of the Land-Office, to the fame Effea as the above, was allowed; and the Letter in this Cafe was accordingly ruled to ba
given in Evidence.
A Plot of a Survey made in purfuance of the above Letter, inLjaae
Zaylor's own hand Writing, with a Note at the bottom thus " fur.
9ber io. 17,2o," and inthe Body of it, the Words" WFilliam FI'1lis 4oo Acres," not returned into the Surveyor General's or SecretarJ's 01icc, but found among Ffaac 2aylar's Land Papers, many
Years after his Death, was allowed to be given in Evidence, againil a
regular Warrant and Survey pofterior to the above; a Settlement'and
Poieflion being proved to have been made, the firft Survey amounting to an Impropriation, and the Land Office appearing to have
been lhutbetween the Years 1718 and 1732.
N. B. On an Appeal to the King and Council, the Judgment of
the Supreme Court was affirmed.

THOMAS WA-LLACE verfus CHILD

SUIT on a Policy of Infurance.

and

STYLES.

It was fet forth in the Declaration that the Veifef fprung a Leak at Sca, and put into Pravidence, through Noceflity.-The iW-qfler of4!e Ship was produced by
the Plaintiff as a Witnefs to prove the Bill of Lading, and to gilv
a general Account of the Tranfa6tions on board the Vetlel and at
Provdence. His admiflion was oppofed, becaufe the Captain
himfclf had Goods on -board which were inlured, and the Money
was refufed to be paid by the Underwriters on his Policy till this
Suit -,as determined, and therefore he was intcrefted.-But it was
anfWered, that the Maiter of the Ship was the only Perfon who
can be ftuppofed capable of giving a full Account of the Matter;
and part of the Defence in this Cafe being, that the Goods
infured were innumerated Commodities and therefore not lawful
to be fhipt from Carcinato Afadera; and the Captain's Goods
infured, were not to be lan~ed at l'Iadeira, but at -rndn, therefore
the Captain's Inirance could not b: ,ide&ed by any Determination
in this Cafe.
THt Ctuar ruled, ,.-e (hould be exmined on the Vh'e dirt,
dilinterelt.d, -he thould be fwcrn ;, ,-hi..;
nd if he iiid he was
.) .
wich wastione, :'n - h2 -uas diitt~d a \Vienefs.

1763.

