SUPREME CIJRT

ot Pennfylvanza;

Septembr Term, 1786.,

GRIzx et a! verfus GRIr..
FTER argument by Bradford and Sergeant for the Plaintiff,

and Ingtrjol for the Defendant, THE CIIlt
pf the court in this caufe.
M'KEAN, Chif uljice.-2-Tbisis an aaion of debtupon an arbitration bond; the Defendant prayed Oyer of the'dbligation and
condition;' the 'condition 'was to fubmit to the award of five perfons, concerning "6 the xcb'ange-of a number of loan office certificates, and of, upon and concerning an a&ion of flander now depending between the raid parties," and alfo of all other matters,
differences, and demands &c. The Defendant thereupon pleaded,
that the arbitrators made no award. The Plaintiffs replied, and let
dortif an avard, vhereby (among other tlings) the 'arbitrators did avard and order, " that in confideration of the lofs fuftained by the
txchange of certificates between Yokn Grier, deceafed, and the Laid
,7ofeh Grier, fenior, the faid 7oeph Grier, pay to the executors of
and "I1ocks

JUSTICE delivered the judgment

the faid 7 hn Grin-, the fu r of one hundred hnd feventy five
pounds ;'T and then the' Plaintiffs aver, that they are the executors
,of the teftament and laff will of the faid John Grier, deceafed, in
the faid 4ward mentioned and intended, and that to them the Laid
fulm of .I75 by the laid writing of award was ordered to be paid
Grier, fenior. To -which the Defendant demurby the faid Jph
xed, and the Plaintiffs joined in demurrer.
The exception taken to this award is, that the L. 175 wore orj4er;d to be paid by the Defendant to the Executors oJ 7ohn Grier
0eceafed,

r

r 7 96
k

C

CAss ruled

-ad adjudged in the

deceafed, who are Sirangirs, and that an award cannot be holven by
an a-ernent, but mufr be expounded by itfeIf and nothing dehors..
In fupport of which, the Defendants counfd cited, x Bacn's Air.
r39L .-!oh. 49. Cartb. I57. Godbclt i3.. Dyer. g.. 1 14. _yma.
:23,. x Bar. .dbr. r4r and Zaw of drbihratorsi19.
For the Plaintiffs, it was 4rgued by their counfel, xft That it sp,*pears fufficiently on the face of the award, that the Plaintiffs are the
executors of 7dhm Grier, by a fair and probable prefumption. 2d
That an averment may be of any.thing not inconijent Aith .the .award- 3 d, That the executors of Joht Grier, deceafed, are perfons certain and known. And, lajily, that if the executors were
ftrangers,. yet the award is good ; for the Defendant ought to have
.Fur which porejoined, that the executors were ftrangers.
fitionswerecited i BuirP77, x BaconAbr. 135. 139. 14,1..- 145Cro. Jac. 200. 354- Cro.
x47- 1 Lrd-Ray). 612.. 246. 53

Blis. 858. 8 Co. 98.. 3 Min. dbr. i.x. Coryns 329. (.arlh. 136..
i t.sn. 3z 6 . 3 Leon 62.
It may not be Amifs toobferve, that the rules.eftablifhed in England before therevolution, ref'pecingthe conurukion of awards,
have been. more liberal and fvorable than formerly ; that many of
.the nice diffinctions to he met with in our law books, are by no
rheans to be admitted as precedents io expounding awards at this
day ; and that, as arbitraiors are judges of the parties own cboofing, for the furtherance of juftice, and quieting of controverfies,
the courts have of late conitrued their awards with great latitude,
and according to their intention, appearing from the wors ofthe
whole. i Burr. 277. 1 Bacon Ahr. 139.
However, two ot the-eflentials in. awards are, that they fhould be
certain and final. By the condition of the bond in this cafe it appears,, that a particular controverfy between the parties was,
,, about the exchange of a number of loan office certificates," and,
by the award, the Defendant is ordered, to pay to the executors of
7ohn Grier; deceafed, 6.i75 in confideration of the lofs fuftained
" the exchange ofcertificafes between the faid John Grier and him.
From there it may be colle&ed, and the meaningof the arbitrators
(eems to be, that a lofs had been fufained by the exchange of certain
loan office certificates between a-certgin '3lohn Grier,. deceafed, and
the- Defendants, that this lofi affe&ed the Plaintiffs in fome way or
other, becaufe it was made an exprefs article in the fubmiflion, and
that the payment of the money to the executors of John Grier,
fhould determine the controverfy on this account. John Grier, deceafd,, has executors, who. they are may be eafily afcertained ; as
eafilyats the ce/?s of an a&ion, or the charges of a voyage,, which have
beetn adjudged to be good awards, becaufe they can be reduced to a
certainty. 3 Cr .383. Bialev. Beale and i Rolls Ibr. 251. So
that this award appears to be certaiu enough. Befides, if the executors are coafidered as Jirangers, yet, by the better authorities, an-award to pay money to them fhall be intended for the benefit of the.
Plaintiffs, and that t4ey, being the fubmittants, were either tho;
executors,

SMUrnMa -Cou~t of Pnns5-ahrnia.

175

executors, or authorized by them, unlefs the. contrary" -ppear.
3 Salk 74. 3 Leon. 62,
With refpe& to the obfervation, that an award -is to be interpreted by its own words, and not by any matter out of it, it is law;
but when the words of an award have relation to things certain,
,out of the award, thefe things may be averred. r Rolls i4hr. 264,
-Stik 365. .. C. And, therefore, as the Executors 6f yohn Grier
deceafed are perions certain, we think that it may be averred, who
they are by name, as has been done by the replication in the prefent
cafe, were fuch averment neceffary 4 for it is only explaining more
particularly what was contained in the award itfelf.
Upon the whole, the court is of opinion, that the a.ward in this
zafe is good. Let judgmenf be entered for the Plaintiffs.

L .

B

verfus B z D D x s.

O

N the trial of this caufe, Lewis, for the Defendant, offered
evidenc6 to prove what was the money meant to be paid by
the contra& entered into between the Plaintiff and Defendant,
imder the Words current lawful money; and cited Morris v.uJbarton.*
Sergtant objeed to the evidence, and cited x Ak. 44.7. a State
Lawi'494. .Dav. Ae. 48. 7 .
Current lawful money, by the pofitive words
Br TZIHCouRT.
of the A& of Affimbly,. means fuch money as is current at the time
of entering into the contra& ; and, perhaps, the evidence offered,
would• not fo much contradi& the contra& itfelf, as that, A& of
Affembly: it would be to fubifantiate an agreement in dire& oppofition to-the law. The cafe in Davis, if we could be bound by it
at all (which we do not think -we can, fri, becaufe it is not a judicial determination ; and, fecondly, becaufe it is before Judges in
Ireland) would be in favor of -the Plaintiff, if it had not-been for
this A6t of Aflembly. But, indeed, if this evidence were admitted,
it would open a door to fuch a fcene of litigation, that, independent of the A&, the argument ah inconvenionti never applied in
greater force.
The evidence was accordingly over-ruled, and the Plaintiff voluntarily fuffered a Nonfuit.

KERLIN's Le,§ee

TiHIs

verfus BULL et al.

caure now came before the court on a fpecial verdi&, returned upon the trial of an ejeament for a meffuage
and lands in the townfhip of BaJl-Yhiteland, in the county of
Chteflter. It was ably argued on the 27 th of April, by Sergeant and
Bradfordfor the dfendants: and Lewis and Jfilcocks for the plaintiff;
and,
*

d.

Z5g*

1786-

