64
2782.

L

CA-2s ruled gild ajadged in the

executiot which was not the cafe of the leffor of te Plaintiff
when the deed was a&ually proved before the juftice.
To this it was anfwered, that the A& of Affembly only related
to the proof which entitled a Deed to be recorded, &c. that many
Deeds might be given in evidence, wliich were not fo eititled; as
in tfie cale'of a long poffeflon under an old Deed. Another a2c
declares that one, or more fubfcribing witneffes is fufficient, i S t. L,
5o. and it iseflablithed, tfiat theatteftlation of witneffes is not of the
iffenee of the Deed.

Before the Stat. f

Frauds the neceffity of

fubfcribirig witneifes -to any infrument, did not exift in England,
and" there is no inflance in which- the Legiflature of Pennfylvania has exprefsly called for the atteftation of two witnelfes,
but in that of the afflgnment of a bond.
BT THE OURT :-:-The figfiifig of a Deed is now the material
part of the execution ; the feal has Vecome a mere form, and a
-writen, or ink feal, as it is called, is good. Any Deed under
feat, when proved, is proper to be given in evidence. 6 MFlod.
45. And, we are of opinion, that a Deed, the execution of whic
is fworn to by one witnefs before a magiftrate, who certifies the'
fame, is within the rule. Befides, the laft A& of Alfribly certainly allows the proof of one witnefs t be fuflicient.*

M o PRis's LelJee VerfuS VADM EEN.,
EVERAL pofifts of evidence were detemntined in thiis caufe;
which- was an Ejelment, brought for the recovery of a lot ov
the wefh-lde of Second fireet, in Philadelphia.
if. The Plaintiff, in order to fliew that the perfons under wnom
he claimed were original pdrchafersfrom JJ'7liiam Penn, the proprietary, offered ih evidence 'apaperfrom the proprielary's, (or rather"
furvyor general's) offce, tontaining the l/lt of neames o1 Jueb peifons as
wtrt originalpurchajtrs;and therein were the names of thoti fromrn

1t was obje6ted to, becaufe
the deeds themfelVes ought to be produced, as it did not appear'thar
t1e.v had. been deftroyedo- But it was anfwered, that the lot in
iu~qi appurtenant to a large tra& of land, and that the deeds

whom the plaintiff derived' his title.

;re if the potdelllon of the owners of that large tra&; for, oik-the
Lftlement utfthe 15rovince of PennJyf7anu, every one'-who boughi

5oo0 acres of land in the country, was entitled to certain, lots with-.
in the city, which became afterwards feparated.
And BY THEa Ct,URT :-The objecfion is ove -ruted- and the
paper allowed to be given in, evidence.See po i Hanmitttt Leffice verds Gall
Hurfl 'verfusDi5e.
ce ant. zO.

,a. S. F.

2

Surizzm

CoUvRT ot Pennj5!vanka.

65

id. The plaintiff produced the Proprietary's .warrants to make a •
.
fuirvey of the lands in queftion, for a perfon under whom ht no
clairhed, without fhewing any a&iual furvey, but only a paler fl
the nature of a cerlifcale from aforuerfuruyor general,jating that
fuchfurveyhadbeen made. It was oppofed, occaufe ths prefent J'Vrvoyor general (Lukens) fwore that there was no fich furvey in the.
office; that furveys of other lots were wanting, and that mis pa-pr
was copiedfro'r a book in tte offie.
T-e COURT ruled, that the paper fhould not be given in evidence, being only the copy of a copy; but that the book front
whichit was taken might be read to the jury: And it was fid by
M'KEAN . 7. that the court has a difcretionary powver to admit
circumfantial evidence of the exiftence of a record. .dieyn. 1 S. 3 d. The plaintiff offered to prove that certain deeds, neceiT ry
to make out his title, were in the hands of, and detaincd by, the
'heirs of one IfraelPem3ertoj, under whom the plaintiff infilhd that
the defendant was only, a Leffee ; and alfo to give in evidence fundry
letters written by the faid Pemberton. It was objeded, that the
defendant is not to be affe&ed by the condu& of a third perfon.
To which the plaintiff's council anfwered, that they undertook to
prove, that the defendant is no more than a Leffee from the heirs
of Pemberton; and the po.Teflion of the Leffee, is the poffefflon of
the perfon entitled to the reverfion. But for the defendant it was
Rill urged that his title is not to be made out by the plaintiff; that
he refts upon his pofeflion ; and that till the plaintiff can make out
a good title of his own, the defendant's poffeiron Is good againft
him ; for the-plaintiff muft recover upon the ftrength of his own,
and not upon the weaknefs of the defendant's title.
But by M'KEAN, C. 7. The plaintiff does not mean to fhew
the defendant's title, but only his.p~ffion, which is admitted by
the record; if Ifrael Pemberion was defendant, it would be good
evidence ogainf him, and, it the plantiff proves that the defendant is
in under Ifrael Pezaberlon,-or his heirs, .he may give thedetentiora
of the deeds in evidence, and alfo the letters, unlefs the defendant
fhews another title; i Ld. Raym. 311. A bill of exceptions to this
opinion.was tendered and allowed ; but, I believe, it has never
been profecuted.
4th. The plaintillf proceeded to caill a witnefs to prove that the
s fworn, that fince the comdefendant was only Leffee; and it
mencemeut of the fuit (to wit, two days before the trial) the defendant told the.witnefs, that he held under the heirs of Pemnbertox.
This teftimony was obje6ed to, becatife it is a general principle.
not to receive evidence of any thing. that happens after the fuit.
this is only proof of 4n acknowledgment
But it was anfwered, thatfuit.
of -a fa& previous to the
And by M'KEAN C. 7. I recolle& one cafe in the books upoa
this, point; and that is, That an acknowledgment of a debt after
fuit,, takes it out of the fIatute of limitations. Let the witnefs pro¢¢edh
5th.: Th
1

66
1782

CAsim ruled and adjudged in the

th. The plaintiffproduced the probate of a will, under the feal
of the Prerogative Court, of (antertury in England, to prove'title to
the lots in queltion in thofe under whom he claimed ; which.proiatt
was n.t recurdedin the ff e here. It was objeded, that the probate of
a will is no e,,idence as to lands ; but it was anfwered, that by an
A& of Aiembly pailed in i7o5, itis made evidence here; and
TUnE COURT allowed the probate to be read; though excepted to,
and admitted in the bill of exceptions.
6th. The plaintiff produced a deed executed in England, and racorded here ; which was read in evidence.
7 th. In order to prove fome fats relative to the title of Lfratl
Pemieron, the plaintiif called one f/i1fon, who objealed to being
examined, alledging that what he .knew of the matter, came to
him in confidence. It appeared that Ifrael Peml-rtn was a merchant; that he took WiT/jon into his houfe when he was declining
in bufinefs ; that he did'very little in trade afterwards; that WFiyol
ufed to copy deeds for Pemberton, and after rome time (having
gained experience) to -draw fuch deeds and writings as were neceffary louching his eflates; that kffijon lived in the houfe with Pefnberton," -ut that-he had leave to draw, and did draw deeds for other
circumft.nces, his examination was obje6ted
pnople. Under the'l
to, becaufe, it was faid, that he was as much Pmerton's council,
as "ny man could be. And Skin. 404- 3 Black. 370.-Bull. A'ri Prius
84.-Ghb. L. E. 138. 139. Atere cited. It was anfwered, that
V/YJon was neither attorney, folicitor, or fcrivener, but only in
the capacity of a clerk to Pemerton; that the reafon why the lasr
will not allow a council, or attorney, to r.veal his client s fecrets,
is, becaufe a man is obliged to have recourfe to profeflioral ch-arauers in matters of law ; and, therefore, the law proteds the
client againft the danger, and the council or attorney againif the indelicacy, of a difelofure. 117if/n's evidence, however, was difpenfed with, on the plaintiff's part ; not from an apprehenfion, that
the point could not be fupported ; but, as it was Tid by the council, under an impreffion of its great importance, and a vifh to
avoid drawing the court into a hairy decifion ; particularly as it war
found the evidence could be waved without prejudice to the caufe;
8th. In order to prove poltllion in one under whom the defendant claimed, the defendant offered to read a letter from Thomas
Slory dated in 1735, although Story himfelf was no way concerned
in the title, to prove that he had the polreflion for RatclifZiceting in
Lonaon. But this was cbje&ed io, and difallowed by the court, it
being a particularfaR, which ought to be proved by witneffes on
oath; records, &c. The defendant's council cited Omichund vtrfus
Barer. 2 tk. 2r. Ld. Raym. 31 r. Bull. Ne/i Prius Z2.9. 290.-3
B/ackft. 3 bE-2 7i1s. 273-3 Burr. 1255. Gilb. L. E. Yo2. and
excepted to the opinion of -the Court, whiLh was allowed in -the
bill of exceptions.
9 th. A deed executed in England, and acknowledged here, though
not rxordd, was read in evidezce.
5

Su nZMz COURT of Penn/vani .

67

It was faid in the courfe of this caufe, that no a& of parliament 1 7 82.
made in Exgland, previous to the fettlement of the Province of
.Prnnfylvania,fhall extend to ihe province, unlers direaed to be fo extended either by a6ts of affembly, adjudications of courts, or eflablifhed ufage.; and, therefore, the flatute 32. H. 8. c. 9. •-gaintt
embraery, does not extend here; but the flatute of limitations 32. H,
8. c 2. does. An a& of aflembly z St: Laws, 88. proves this do6trine,
M'KEAN,. C. 7.in his charge to the jury, laid -down the following pofitions:
The recital of one deed in another deed, is no evidence but
againft thO party claiming under it, Vaugh. 74. Gilb. L. E, 99.
The ftatute of 32 H. 8. c- 9. againtl embracery, does not make
void the contra&; notwithflaning the cafes in. i Hawk. 249.
Carib. 251-. 2 Blac. 29o; for thofe cafes extend only to contra&s
where no penalties are infli&ed.
The flatute of 32 H. 8. c. 9. is not in force in Pennfylvanta;
nor is the 21 7ac. i c. 16; but the ftatute ot limitationls of 3-2
I. 8. c 2. is in force here.* This ftate has had her government above a hundred years ; and the flatute of embracery has never
been extended either by law, or praaice, during that period. It
is.the opinion of the court, however, that thQ common law of Englafid has always been in force in Pentifylvania ; that all flatutes made
in Great-Britainbere the fetiiement of Pennfyh,ania, have no force
here, unlefs they are convenient and adapted to the circumafances
of the country; and that all flatutes madejince the fettlement of
Pennfylvania, have no force here, unlefs the colonies are particularly
named. The "fpirit of the aa of afflembly paffed in 17 18 fupports
the opinion of -the court.
The 11atute of limitations, 32 H. 8. c 2. has always been ieceived in Pennfylvania. Fifty years poflellion has noe been the
rule; but it is agreeable to the pia&ice that fixty years poffeflion
Thbuld be a bar.
An .- !Rment is almoff the only alion for trying the title to lands
in this'fRate.
The recitals, of, or, in deeds, with refpeet to a pedigree are eviience.

A bare perception of profits will not duft a tenant in common;
and for the ftatute of limitations to operate as a ba:, the poifellion
muft
adverfe.
. Anbeinterlineation,
if made after the executioh of a deed, will
avoid it, though in an immaterial point; nor is t to be prefumcd
to have been made before; the prefumption is the contrary, unlvfs
otherwife proved.
VInicvr
for the plaintiff, as to oure th!rJ of the lot in quetqion
and for the defendant, as tb the other two thirds.
Ju

p.15..i~m
de.. y&.rNs .L~h

