SUPREMZ COU&T of Pnnf7flanid.
1786.
SBELT verfus DALBY.

S

INCE the a& for the gradual abolition of flavery, a number of
perfons have formed a fociety in Philalphia,for the purpofe
of relieving thofe of their fellow creatures, who are held in illegal
flavery ; and this aaion is owing to that inflitution,
The plaintiff, being the fuppofed iffue of white and mulattoe parents, attended the defendant to Philadelphia in the autumn oft -8
and prefented fo pure a complexion, that the attention of the foci
ety was excited, and a writ of Habeas corpus taken out at their initance.
The boy's right to freedom was firfi argued before Mr. Juflice
BRYAN, and, the next day, before the fame judge, and the CHIEF
JUSTIcE, at their chambers ; when the facts being difputed, the
CHIEF JUSTIcE advifed the counfel to throw the cafe into the
form of an a&ion de Homine replegiand.; and recognizances to appear, being entered into on both fides, a declaration was filed of
Sptetmerterm 1784, Rating that "the defendant Dalby had taken and
kept captive the plaintiff, Frands Belt, whereby the faid plaintiff is
injured &c." To this the defendant pleaded, that the plaintiff was
his flave, and the plaintiff replied that he was a free man, abhfye
hoe &c. rejoinder, and iffue.
Upon the trial, which was by a firuck jury, it was given in
evidence, that the plaintiff was born it Marylard, of an unmarried
mulatte woman; that the grandmother, and the mother, of the
plaintiff, are now, and always have been, laves; that he %vaspurchafed by the defendant's agent, and that the fale was then in dirpute in law in Maryland; that the plaintiff had not been fix month!
in Pennfylvania when the .Habeas Corpus was brought; and the
plaintiff himfelif was fhewn to the jury, that they might from his-appearance draw fome concluflon, that he was, at leaft on one fide,
the iffibe of white parents.
Mu2fflin, for the defendant, having proved by the laws of Mfarvland,
that the boy was a flave in that flate, contended that the Lex Lcci
muff determine this, as well as other 1erfonal and mixed acions;
and for that do&rine, cited,, among many other authorities, i P.
lYill. 420. Prectd. in Chan. 207. He faid that the rule, par/us fequitur ventrem, was founded on reafon and the law of nature, and
was as applicable in other countries as in Miaryland. r Puffrud.
599. 6 93- I-u-.In l..
13 §. 4. and he obfervcd, that cv- '
Pennfylvania, the fLegiflature had taken notice of other Jia"Izgroes and mulattces, to wit, Indian flaves. r Pen. laws. 46.
The Attorney General and Lewis argued for the plairltilf. They
faid, that, in Pennfylvania, there was no pofitive law for tlavery;
though as the a&s of Atimbly took notice ot three forts of laves,
nigroes, imulattoes, and indimas. they admitted that, by a reafonable
confhrufion, this might be rendered tantamount to 9-n expref, toleratiort

x68
796.

CAsEs rdiled and adjudged in the

leration. But they contended, that 'even under this admiflior
the maxim which declares that rxprepi unius, 6f exciujia alterius,
muft be applied to the plaintiff's cafe, and, confequently, as he
was neither an Indian, a Ai2ulattoe, nos a Negro, he cannot be enflavedby mere implication. With refpe6t to the Lex Loci, they
allowed its force in regulating contra&s; but infifted that it could
never be extended to injure a third perfon, who was not a party
to the contrac ; which the plaintiff had not been in the prefeilinftance; ind having thus anfivered the adverfe 'arguments they
laid down four propofitions, on which they meant to rely.
ift. That, however tle cafe may be at civil law, ,by the common law the iffue'-follows the condition of' the father. 2. Black.
§. 87. 188. xi State
Crnm. 39 o . Fortefc. de laud. 98. 103.-it.
7rials 343.
ad. That a baffard being Nullius filius, is free; for, he who
can gain nothing by inheritance, ought to lofe no part of his natural freedom by relation to his progenitors.- 2 B1. Com. 94- Co.
4
'hat things, not perfons, are the obje&s
3 d.
of property. a
Bl. Com.'!2. f6. 1 B. Corn, 423.
4 th. That property in a flave, if it does exift, cannot -be tranfferred without deed. Litt. §. 183 ; and, confequently; as it is not
in evidence, that the plaintiff was fold -to the defendant by deed,
the defendant has not proved him to be his flave, howeverthe" general queftion may be-againif the-pliintiff.
The C.HIIF JUSTICE delivered the following fentiments, in
the courfe of an elaborate charge to -the jury.
M'KEAN, Chief uflice. -The iffue is whether the plairitiff is "a
Iftthe jury think, from the evidence, that ihe
freeman or a flav.
plaintiff's mother was a flave at the time of his birth, according to
the laws of Virginia, where he was born; we will point out- the
legal confequence that flows from the eftablifhment of this fat..
Slavery is of a: very ancient origin. By the. facred books. of .aiticus and Deuteronomy, it appears to have exifted in the firf, ages.
of the world; and we know it was eftablifhed among the Greeks,
the Romans, and the Germans. In England there was formerly a
fpe~ies of flavery, diftin& from that which was termed villenage.
Swinb. p. 84. 6. Edit. is the only authority I remember on this point,
though I have before had occafion to, look into it with attention.
But from this diftinf&ion has arifen the rule, that 'the iffue fol]ows"the condition of the fafler; and its confequence, that the bdiftard is always free; "becaufe, in contemplation of law, . his father
is altogether unknown, aid that, therefore, his flavery fball not he
prefumed, murt be confined implicitly to* the cafe of Filleins. It
-• ould, perhaps, be ditfcult to account for 'this fingular deviation
Ai the law of England, from the law of every other country upon
th.-fame Iubje&. But it is, enoigh 'or the prefent occafion to
ka3)w, that is v'illeinage never exite-3 in America, -no part of the
Aoiftrinna

• urxk.t

COURT of PenrflyVana

. x69P
6

hers. The
docrine founded upon that condition, can be applicable
.Amerca;and- d
contrary pralice has, indeed, been univerfal in
pra&ice is Co ftrongly- authorized by the civil law, from which this
fort of domePic flavery is derived, and is in' itfelf fo confiftent with
Ahe precepts of nature, that we muft now confider it as the law of
the land.

There is a cafe in 2 8ali. 666. which has not been mentioned at

the bar, though it bears confiderable relation to the prefent controverfy., It was an aaion-of 1nddiiatus 4ffu~maft for a negro fold;
and it was faid by HoLT'r Cbitf Mftic¢ Athat a negro by entering
,Englandbecomes free; but that a fale in Virginia, if properly laid,
wilt fupport the a&ion. Hence, we perceive, how f£icitous the
courts of that kingdom have been, on the one had, to difcountenance
flavety in, England; but, on the other hand, to do full juftice to the
fale, which, by the Lex .,oci, was lawful in J'irginia, where it was
made.
It only remains to obferve, that property in a Negroe,.Inay be oi2ained by a honafide2 urchafe, without deed.
YEADICT for the Defendant.

KUNCKEL

ef a[. veerfus

BAKr.z..

was an application- for a fpecial Court, founded on the
a& laffed the Loth of April, i78 2. Kunckel, the petitioner, let
forth in his affidavit, that one of the plaintiffs, Boom, witlrwhom he
had been in partnerfhip, had difft6ved their conne&ton, finee the commencement of-the a&ion, and that the outfianding debts had been
afigned to Kunckd, fo as to, veft in. him the whole intereft in the e-vent of the a&ion. It was alfo fiated that Kunckel was about tM
depart from .the Unifed States; brut that Boom had no fuch intertion.
The /itorney General, for the defendant, objeled, that, by thus
-affigning the intereft in an aaion to a- going foreigner, a fpecial
Court, and anf early judgment, might always be within reach, to the
prejudice 'not only of the defendants but of other creditors. And
upon this round TH'S CouRT unanimoufly'refufed the prayer of
.
'theqetitionl
.The plaintiff's counfel then moved, that he ought not to be deprived ofhis bail by this application; which, requiring a declaration
to be preyioufly filed, 4amounted to an acceptance of a common appearance.
In the jullice of i'ii motion, THE CoVrI'r concurred, and accordingly dire&ed a rule to be entered, that the delendant-give bail
in two months, or a'Procedendo.
Rawle tor the 'plaintiff.-Bradfordfor the defendant.

796"
7r

