SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvania:
September Term, 1788.

WALToN

verfus

WILLIS.

T

HIS was an appeal from the OrphalsCourt of the county oi
Philade hia. It was argued in January term by Levy and
Tilghman for the Appellant; and Sergeant and Ingtrfol for the Appellee. And now the CmIEF JUSTCE flated the cafe, and delivered the opinion of the Court, in the following manner.
M'KEAN, Chief fufi ce. Elizabeth AI7llis being feized of. a
meffuage and lot of land in the city of Phildelphia, with the appurtenances, died inteflate, leaving iffue a daughter named "Elizabeth,
who had intermarried with Samuel Walton, the Appellant, and by
him had iflhe two fons, Zofeph and Booz; and four grand-children,
to wit, Thomas the Refpondent, Solomon, Mufgrove and Rebecca,
being the children of her fon Solomt Willis deceafed, who had died,
before her, inteftate. The daughter;' Elizabith Wfalton, died after
her mother, and her hufband, the Appellant, and their two childrert, before named, furvived her. Thomas IJJ'ilis, the Refpondent,
applied by petition to the Orphan's Court of the county of Philadelphia, held on the ift of April, 1782, for a partition of the premiffes i or, if they could not be divided without prejudice to, or fpoil-,
ing the whole eftate, that a valuation thereof might be made, agreeably to the direifions of the A&s of Affembly in fuch cafe
made and provided. An inqueft was accordingly had, and a return
made, that the premiffes could not be divided without prejudice to,
or fpoiling the whdle, and valuing the fame at/ 358. This return
was confirmed by the Court on the roth of June, 1782, and the
preniffes were adjudged to, anda'ccepted by T, mas frillis, the Refpondent, at the above valuation; and for fecuring'the payment of
that finn, in due proportions to the other Grand-children, he offered to the, Court two fureties, x ho were approved of, and dire&ed to
give

352C;ss-.ruedand188".

adjuged in-the

give bonds li the of.,"5 of i1Fd Clerk of the Court, unto the other
grand-children, for their refP&ive fhares ; hat nofuch bonds orfecyrity have yei been given.
On thefe proceedings in aflieal is brought before this Court;
and, ; an the argumem, the counfel have done great juflice to their
r~fpe~trve clierits. It wd mit wi.hj however; that the opinions and
pra;ice of'thefeveral Orphban's Goirs Olt Pennfylvania, had beed af.certai'ied in cafes 6f-thi, defcription ; and th it we might be informed, wbther ahy lcfe; upon firiilirprinciplesi had been ever determnined in th Sufirem; 02urt; -fcr we fhould be exceedingiy cautious
in pronouncing a judgnent that might'lhake effates held in this way.
As we have not yet obtained fall fatisfa&ion on this head, we
would Rill wifh to defer giving our opinion; btit that we think it
proper, -from the length-.ot time thtecaufe has been inder advifement, to oroceed-upon the lights-we have received.
On the.part of the Appellant, fix exceptions liave been t.aken td
the proceedings in ihe'Orphan'sC-Aurt.
t. Thrit it is no where mentioned, who ate theReprefentatives of
EPlizabeth Fi71kls,. the iriteflate; hor into,.how ;nmriy.parts the eftate
Dtiould be divided : but the whole is left to the Sheriff.
S-A. That the Court hdve adjudged the citate to a Giandfo?1
-whereas thej, had no autiori-y to go beyond the firfi degree in ihe
defce.hding line.
3 'That even if the Aas of Albnibly did impower the Court to
go fatthei', to wit, to the grand-children, yet that the adjudicatioh
ought to -hive been to all the children of the eldeft fon, and not to
his elde f fo .iexclufively;
4 . That rio trovifion is made for tie Appelant, Samuel Walton,
,who is' tenant 6y ifie curtefy of his wife's fhare, to wit;- of a third
par .in thr~e p'urts jo be divided.
5. That the judgment is uncertain with refpe& to the vaiuation
money ; in-as: much as the amount of eich fhare is not particularize8, nor the time of payment iimitea.
.6. That the partition ought t6 have been -made by one inqueft,
if pra&icable ; but, if not pracig.able, aud fo returned, the valuation ought to have been made by another in queft ; and that, on
ihe whole, rio effate c'an be veiled in Vho'das t('lis by his acceptanceatthe valiation, as no tecurity has yet been given for the money.
I he weight of thefe exceptions depends upon the due conftruction of.the Aft of Atembly, entitled, " An A& for the-better fettling of jnteftates eltates," the fupplement to' that A&, and the
pr6ice.uinder .56th of them.
1. With refpe&'to thefirfi exception ; we think it would be well
for the party pravting fo'rA partition of an inteftate's real eflate, to be
particular in the nares oftheperfons entitled to thares, and of the
-purparty of each i and'-i this tefpeL t6 purfue the. formt of a declar,ttion in partition, and of th'e return of a writ de partitione facenda. but to'revcrfe'an iirqieff for this omiffion, would certainily affe&
many

SUPREME CoURT of Pennfylvania.

353

ittany efltates, as thefe proceedings in the Orphan's Courts, ,re fre.78
quently. drawn by perfons not much ikilled in ftri& forms ; and, .I
the prefent cafe, 'as.the return of.the Sheriff has been,. that the eflate
could not be divided without prejudice to or fpoiling the whole, no
wrong or damage feems to have been done to any one. For thefe
reafcns we mufl over-rule this objedion.
. Thefecond exception introduces a queflion, whether a Grandotn, that is; the eldeft fon ol the eldeft fon of -n inteftate, is entitled
to an-eilate, which cannot be divided, at thevaluation, in the fame
manner as his Father? and this muft be deciddd by the words, purview, and intent of the Legiflature, in the two Ads of Affembly
which have been alreadycited. The main intent'of thefe ads, appears to have been, that real eflates-ihould be divided among the children, or reprefentatives in the defcending line, of an Inteflate; and
not defcend to the heir at the common law. But a fecondaryi and
the next intent, feems to have been, to prevent eftates.romn being
fplit and frittered into many parts, to their manifeft prejudice; and,
accordingly, it is provided, that where that Would happen, the eldeft
Ion or heir at law, (hould have his ele&ion of taking the land at a
valuation, 'to be made in the manner prefcribed in the Ads.
The reafon of a law will have great influence in determiniig its ex,
tent; and on the prefent occafionj the reafoR alluded to, is much,
ftronger in the care of a Grandfon than of aJon ; "for, in this cafe, the
diftributive hares Will pr6bablybemoft numerous, and, cohfequently, moft injurious to the land bya divifion or partition. The words
" heir at law," in both A&s, are, in ftri& grammatical conftruction, an expreffion, 'or fubfiitute for eldt/2Jon.; but the reafon of the
law, and the ufage ever fince the pafling thofe Ads of Affembly (as
we have been informed) wilt'warrant a moreextenfive and beneficial
interpretation of them. We think, thercfore, that this objedion
likewife fails, as-well as
3. The third objedion, which we over rule ; Thmas beinr alone
the heir at common law.
4. But the jourth exception appears to the Court to be fatal.,
There ought to have been a provifion made for Samuel r/ ton, who
had an eftate for life by the curtefy, and yet he is not even named in
theJentence or decree of the Court below. When a writ departiiow
facienda is iffued, the Sheriff is obliged tofiumin0 all the'parties to attend; and, if ihey do attend, he muft make the partition in theirprefence. The fame thing is not, indeed, exprefsly required in the partition, or. valuation, to be made under the Aqs of Afembly ; yet
natural juflice, and the conftant rules of all Courts require, that dverv
perfon, who is interefted in theprocetdings, fhould befummoned and:
Aeard 3 Mod. 378. It may not, perhaps, be the pradice, nor is it
neceffary in this cafe, that it 1hould befeout in the return hy the.InqueR, though we would wifh that to be done; but it is eifrntial to juftice that all parties fhould in fit57 have notice. On the proceedings.
before the Orphan's Court, the -Appellant has not been made even aparty in the decred; and the preftimption of courfejs, that fie was.fiiY y
ther

3]
t798.

:.C

sES .ruled and adjudged in -the

therfumionednorprefet. If he had been prefent, he might pofiby
urged fuch arguments, as would have induced the inquefi. tO
have put a higher elimate, orvalue, upon the premiffes, andan 6pportunity ought to have been given to him for that purpofe.
5. As to the Afih exception ; there does not appear to be fuflicient certainty in the fentence of the Court ;. inafinuch as the purparts of the'valuation money are not fpecified, nor the time of payment fixed. But this Court might reduce both thefe points to certainty, were there no other exceptions; and, in that cafe, thewhole
coft.!of the appeal would fall upon the Refpondent.
6. On thefixh eyception, i e mufl obferve, that the prafice in
the Orpban's Courts has been to dire&~t the fame inqueft, which is appointed to make a partition of real efltate, if that cannot be done
without prejudicing the whole, then to make the valuation. This
Court, therefore, will not now undertake to alter this long eflablifhed praaice, though it'is liable to fome exceptions. But we are of
opirion, that the lee in the premilles cannot yet be vefted in Thomas
Willis, as he neither paid, nor fecured the payment of the valuation
money to thofe who are entitled to receive It,
Upon the whole, let dhe fentence and decree of the Orphani
ic-ourt be reverfed.

Shave

RESPUBLICA

vef2us

CAMPBELL.

HIS was an inquifition of Forcible Entry &c. taken before two
Juftices of Lancafler counr. The proceedings being removed
by certiorari into this Court, Bradfordnow moved that they might
be qiafhed ; and 1hewed for caufe, that the Defendant is flated in
the inqueft- to have been pfffeid, but no elfate, or term is laid ;
which, he faid, was adjudged to be infufficient in a cafe of Re"publica verfus Scott, the Court there obfe.rving thai Hawkins was exprets, that an inquifition of Forcible Entry &c. will not lie in the care
of a tenant at Will.
BI" THE COURT: Let the proceedings be quafled.

Ross; ve-fus

F

CLARKE.

OREIGN attachrnent.-Clake, the Defendant in this cafe, had
] obtained judgment upon afcirefacias againi. Rojf, the Plaintiff,
as fpecial bail of one Miunro; and a flay of proceedings was entered
untill the enfuing term, when Rofs was to pay the money recovercd
into Court, it before that time the original debtor had not fatished the
dbt. The lay being elapfed, Roji paid the inoney, but, upon .n
apprehenfion that payment might have been made by Munro, thoug h
no accounts were received of it, he mined iarely ihfued thisforeign ateachrnent ag.inft Carke, and laid it in the hands of the Protborotarp
Or.

