136
1785.
k......,

CASES ruled and adjudgedt in the

3 Burr. 15i4, that the Court would enquire what would be tihe tettimony of the abfent witnefs, in order that it might appear whether
he was really material.
But this THE COURT refuffed, and ordered. the caufe to be ccntinued.
Bradfo'd then moved, that the a&ion againft Keeit),/hould be tried
.nfifing that the affidavit of any perfoii, but the deiendant imff
was inftffcient to delay a trial ; and he cited Barn. 437. Carter vs
Uppington and Gray vs Holton.
But it appearingto THL. COURZT, tb'.t both aions-were brought
on one note of hand, in which Ala/on was the drawer, and Keely the
indorfer, and, confequently, that Mlanm was liable over to -eely, he
was confidered as eventuallv interef en in ooth a(Etons; and theref4re both the trials were po'.1poned on his afldavit alone.

GRAHAM'S

Appe,1.

HIS was an appeal from.the Orphan's Court of Philaietbia'

and after argtunent, the

CHIEF JUSTICF

delivered the unani-

mous opinion oL the Court to the following effe&:
I'KEAN, C;iefj '7ic-. The inteflate had left feven children,
all under the age of fourteen years; their mother married the*Baron
appellant. Upon petitioito the Orphan's Court by the children,
for the appointment of guardians, Enoch Edwards, and another, were
appointed.. This appeal is founded upon an idea, that the guardian in Soccage, or by nurture, muff be appointed; and that the Orphan's
Court have not a difcretion.
In England, the next of kin, to whom the inheritance cannot defcend, muft be appointed guardiap,. the mother therefore would
have been entitled to the appointment there; but in Pennfyhvdnia;
it depends on the 7 and 12 ยง. of the a:2 of 12 2nne c. 3. And we
all agree that by the true conflru&ion of th -fe f-c-tions, the Orphan's
Court have a power to affign the guar~ianfhip of minors uider
.fourteen, to whom they pleafe, according to their legal difcretion;
which legal difcretion by ยง. 12 is confined to the choice of perfons
of the fame religious perfiuafion, of good repute, and approved by
the Orphan. If any of thefe objedions finould occur, the Court
mul, appoint fome other perfons ; which could not be the cafe, if
they were confined to the guardian in foccsge, or by nurture.
The opinion of the Court is conformably to the invariable practice in ,_iry County of the ftate, from the date of the a& to this
day: and the conflruction given to an aa immiiediately after it has
paifed, cannot be altered at fo diffant a period, even although it
might have been a little
in the firft inffance.
The erroneous
order of the
Orphan'sCourt confirmed.

