CASES ruled and adjudged in ,the

444

I have no doubt, indeed, that many aas of Parliament, paflid, not
Enly before, but fubequent to the union- of England and Scotland, have, by the failre means, been introduced and praaifed upon'
in 'Pennfylvania ;,and as experience has proved fuch proceedings to
be beneficial, fo conflant and uninterrupted ufage has given them alegal-exiftence. thatcannot now be haken or deftroyed. But the
.indorfees of Promiffory Notes, according to the befi information
which we can obtain, have never grounded their a2ions againift the
drawer, upon any other bafis than the a& of Affembly now under
confideration ; thoughi I think, the aaion by an indorfee, againif
Ihe ind' fr, muff be founded on the flatute of Inne, and the ufage
under it, as no fuch aelion is given by the a&.
The 9 ueftion, fo far as it relates to the affignees of Bonds, has
been determined in the affirmative, in the Supreme Couf t of Penn-fylvania, before the revolution. See ant. 23. And, as, on the one hand,
the Legiffature has madeno difference whatever bet ween the aflignees
of Bonds"and the indorfees of Notes, fo, on the othe', we cannot
difcover any folid or good reafon to introduce a diftin6 ion in the.
particular before us.
Upon the whole, we are unanimoufly of opinion, that the indorfee of a promiffory Note, does takeit, fubjc& to all equitablecon.
fEderations, to which the fame was fubje& in the hands of the indorfer, the original payee. And, thareiore,
Let the dcfcndant have a new trial.
CtMMINGS,

Affignee, verfus LYNN.

r-THIS was an action of [Covenant, and the circumfiances'un.X_ der which it came before the Court, were thefe: The plaintiff filed a declaration in the following'words;
'jofeph Lvynr, late of the county of Philadelphia,yeoman, wa* fum.
of 7ames Canpbell, and
nioned to anfwer lames tmngs,affignee
Stcphen Kingflon, who were affignees of George Turner, of a plea that

"
"

he hold witi him the covenants and agreements of him the faid Jofeph with the faid George made, according to the force,, form, and
effe& of a certain deed thereof by him the faid Jofeph, with the faid
Georgemade, &c. And thereupon the faid 7amns Cununings faith, that
on the 6th day of February, in the year of our Lord, one thoufand
fevcn hundred and eighty-four, at the county aforef iid, a certain

"Wichas

Evdelgh, of the State of South- Ca-olina, by his certain

obligation, or writing obligatory, fcaled with his feal, and to the
,eCourt here flewn, whofe date is the day and year aforefaid, acknowiedged himfelf fo be held and firmly bound unto a certain
, Lewis Leylargette, in the fui

of thtee hundred andfixty-four Pounds,

, twelve.Iiings, flerling money, in gold or filver fpecie at the rate of
f, .1rhifings andeightpence to the dollar, or onepound onefliiing and

" nine pence to the guinea, to be paid to the faid Lewis, his certain
1 attorney,

SUPRMa

E COURT of Pennfyiania.

145

attorney, executors, dnminifiratoTs and afiigns, when he fhould
afterwards be thereto required. And the faid "ames Cummings, in

faH faith, that the fame um of money, or any part thereo, being in no wife paid br fatisfied, acertain 'loi,'ph Parker,for whofe
ufe and benefit'the obligation or writing obiigatory aforefaid, was
made as aforefaid, afterwards, to wit, on the twelfth day at Alay,
in the year of our Lord, 1784., at the county aforefaid,,by'his
certain deed of aflig.ment on the obligation or Ariting obliga1' toiy aforefaid, under his hand and feal duly made and excuted,
"- before two credible witnefls, did allign, ineorfe afid make over
" the obiiuation Cr writing obligatory aforefaid, to the faid :k/epb
" Lynn, as by the fame-deed of affin me,
to the Court here hcwfappears. And the faid 7anies Cummings further in faa faith that
" the faid 7oeph Lynn afterwards, to wit, on the 8th day of Sepf.
tember, in the year laft af6refaid, at tI,county alorfaid, the frid
" funi of money, or any part thereo., being in no wire paid or fatis.
fled, by his certain deed ofaffignment on the faid writing obligatory
under his hand .nd feal duly made and executed, before two cre
dible witnells, did affign, indorfe, and make over the faid obligation, or writing obligatory, to the faid George 7urner for value
"-'

'.

"

received of him. And the faid James Cunnhings further in fa&
faith, that the faid 7yiph Lynn, in and by his faid deed of aflign.

mcrt did covenant and agree to and with the faid George Turner,
" and his ailigns, that the fum of money alrfcfaid Ihould be well and
" truly paid to thc faid George Turner,-or his affigns, agrcehbly to

.thefaid obligation, or writing obligatory, as b.the fame deed of
alfignment to the Court here fliewn appears. And the faid J"ames
Cummings further in taa faith, th.t the faid George Turner afterwards, to ,wit; on the i 8th day ot AlovembSek, in the year laft aforeffaid, at the county aforefaid, the faid fum of money, being in-no
wife paid, or fatisfied, did by-his certain deed of affignment, on
the faid obligation or writing obligatory duly made and executtd,
" under his hand and feal, before two credible witneffes, aflign, in" dorfe, and make over the faid obligation or writing obligatory,
to the faid James Campbell, and Stephen Kingflon, and thqir affignsi
-" for value received of them, and by the fame deed of affignment
the faid George did then and there covenant with the faid '7ames
C'ampbell and Stephen Kin.flon, and their affigns, that the faid fum
"!of money fhould be well and truly paid to thefaii.James Campbell and Stephen Kit gfton,.or their affigns, ,-greeably to the faid obligation or writing obligatory, as by the fame deed of afligna'ent
" to the Court here fliewn appears. And the faid Yae-s Cummings
further in faa faith, that the faid _7ames Campiell and Stephen Kingflon afterwards, to wit, on the eihteenth day of December, in the
Cc year laft aforefaid, at the county aforefaid, the faid fum of money being in no wife paid or' fatisfied, by their certain deed of
aiTgnent on the faid obligation or writing obligatory duly made
and executed, under their hands and feals, before two credible
"
"
"
"

-"

witneffes,

x 7 8-9.
-

o

44.6
3789.

CASES

ruled'ahd adjudged-in-the-

itneffes,.-did aflign, endorfe, and'.make over the obligation or
wrlting obligatory to the faid 7ames cummings, and'by the fame
", deed of affigamefit, the faid .7ame Campbell and Stephen Kingfot
' did then gnd there covenant, with the faid .ames.Cummings, that
" the faid fum of money liould 6e well and--truly paid to th&faid
' amos Cummings, agreeably to the faid' obligation br writing obligatory, as bythe fame deedof aflignment to the Court here fhw.
. appears. Yet the faid Nicholas Evreigh, or the faid Jofiph Pat. ~r, or the fgid Jofeph Lynn, or the faid George Turner, or the faid
".ames Campbell, or Stephenlingflon, ihe fum of Inoney aorefaid,
" or any parf thereof, to the faid 7ames Cumnings, although often
,' required, hath not paid, by reaforg whereof a&ion hath accrued
' to the faid aes Cummings, to demand and have the faid fim of
money of and from the fald Jofeph Lynn': Neverthelefs the faid
7ofeph Lynn, the famefunm of money,'or any.part thereof, to the
•faid )ame; Cummiags hath not paid," although to do this the faid
- ofeph Lyn afterwards, to wit, on the t9th2 day of the fai'he
" month of Decemher, in the year Jaii-aforefaid, at the countn afore" fad., was, by the faid Jiamis Cummings required, but the fiame to
" him to pay hath hitherto relufed, and filrdoth refufe, to the da". mage of the laid James Cummings,' Onethoqfandpound lwfulmo. ney of'the State of eennfylvania,andthereof he bringeth fuit, &c,"

'.

"

The Defendant craved Oytr of the bond, condition, and affign-.
ments flated in-the dectaraion', which was give. "inthe following
words:- K NO W all men by thefe prefents, that I Nicholas Evleigh,
0 of the -faid State, planter, am held and firmly bound unto Lewis
." Leflarjette, nierc-hant, in the full, and juft fum of three huindred
"and fixty-four pounds, twelve fhillings, flerling money, in gold
(' or filver fpecie; at the rate of four flhillings, and eight pence to
" the dollar, or one pound, one ihillings, and nine pence to the"
guinea, to be paid unto the faid Lewis Lejlarjete, his certain attor, ney,, executors, adminif-rators,- or afligns: To which payment
well and truly to be made and done, I bind tayfdf, and each (' and, every of 'my heirs, executors, and- adminifirators, firmly by
" thefe prefent; fealed with my feal, and dated the fixth &ayof February, in thje year of our'Lord, one thoufand feven-hundred and
eighty-four.
"TaE CONDJTroN ofthe above obligation is fuch, thatif the above
" bound Nicholas "Eveigh,his 'heirs, executors, or adminifh-ators,
fhall and do well and truly pay, or caufe to be paid, unto the above
" named Lewis Lefargette, his certain attorney, executors, admi" nifirators, or affigns, the full and juft fum of one hundred, and
C eighty-two pounds, fix fhillings, flerling money, in gold and illA-cve fpecic, at the rate of four fhillings- and eight pence-to the
" dollar,

supitEMp COUa-r

of A'e.&Ir.1,

447

i' dollar, or ohie pound, one'hilling, and nine pence to the guinea,
a' with intereft from 'thd date hereof, "oni or before the firfi day of
, January, which w1i" be in the year of out Lord, one thoufand
"
feven hundred and eighty-five, witheut fraud or further delay,.
" then the above obligatiori to be void and of non-effe&, or elfe
' to remain in full force and virtue.
N. EVELIEGH." (L.S.)
Stald and delivered
in the rqfence of
JOHN

QUZEN.

"N. B. This bond is a teniewat of an old debt contra&ed by CoI;
" M. Eveleighto Me. of. Parkxr,for the above amount, inthe year
" 1780.
L. LESTARJETTE,"
"I D 0 'here'by affign all my right, title, claim, property, and
demand of the within bond to 7ofeph Lynn, or the city of Pila.;
deiphia, merchant, fdr his fole ule and benefit, for value received
€"12th My, 1784.
Witnefs."
JOS. PARKER." (L.S.)
CROPLYE RosE, ALE'!X.ANDER MAJOR,
4 I DO hereby'afiign at the requeft, and with the confent P1
,2the ;above figned 7ofph Parlerj all my right, title, claim, pro-

perty, and demand, of, in andto the Within bond, to George Turnir, of Philadelphia,for his folc ufe. and benefit. Value received.
of hini, -this twerity-eighth day bf September, i784. '
Wieners.
O
JOSEPH LYNN."- (L. S.).
JAeoE BAKER,

"

CAD. MORRIS.

I D 0i hereby Afllgnt all M~y right, title, claim, property, andi
demand of, in and to the within bond, to Meffrs. James Camphill, and Stephen King?on, of Phladelphia, merchants, for their,
"j6int
ufe and benefit: Value of them receivedi this eighteenth
day of November, 1784."
Witnefs.
G. TURNER." (L. S.)
ALEXANDER MAJOR,
HENRY M. VAN SLING

N.

11 WE

do hereby aflign all otir right, titler.claim, intereft, pro4
perty, and demand of, in and to the within bontl, to ,ames Cum.
ming, of Charllon,merchant, for his ufe and benefit: Value rer
9'ceived in account with him, Philadelpha, s8th December, 5784.
JAMES CAMPBELL, (L. S.),
Witnefs.
STEPHEN KINGSION." (L, S.)
"

JAMES RANKIN,
AL-XANDER MAJoX'

%
.pOn

1789.

40

I

CAsi

ruled and adjudged ifi the

Upoh thai the'Defendant demurred for the variance between tme
r41vendrits flated and afigned in the declaration, and the covenants
appearing upon Oyei, of the bond, doridition, 'and affignmenrs:
Aiid upon a joinder in demurrer, the queftion was brought before
tire CoUrt, Whether this a6lion of.Covenant could be maintained on
Lnn's.aflfinment? which was argued- at the laft term, by filgh,max 49nd "ergeant,'for the Defendiant; and Lewis and Ingerfoll for

.the Plaintiff.
* For the Defendant,' it was contended, in tupport of the demurreri
that, the affignmeat by Parker,was not within the a& of' affembly,
i &tateLaws, 7.for LeJargettewas the legalobligee, and Parkeronly the obligee in intereft ;- and, as no fuit could have been maintaiped-in Parker's name, arguments drdwn from the a& cannot applytt fupport the prefent a&ior,, but the aflignr ent mul be confidered as made at common law..

"

That although Turner might have fied Lynn, yet, as it was only
"an eiquitable affignmenr, which is the cafe in refpe& to all chafes in
lonr, where r~oftive" law'does fiht" interpofe, -Turne,'s affignee
could not fupport fuch an a&ion, 2 Pez. i i. i P. prill. 252. 2
:Black. Rep..J140. Cr. 7. 179. The aflignment is only an authority to receive the money; or, at mof', a covenant, that, ifLyni
received it, -he would pay it to his aflignee. There i-nothing likd
an exprefs covenant on .the part of Lynn; though, relyipg on the.
ibrd hflighed, it will, perhaps, be contended, that there is an imflied covenant. But, .that (as it is already obferved) is only an authority to 'receive the money; and the 'affignor can be guilty of
no blteach, unlefs he interferis'wifh the reL.3very of his affignee.i L. Rayrn. 683. 3 Ke. 304. 2 L. Raym. -z2 2. 12 Mrd.553,
1 Mod. 1 .3. The law, indeed, will make a covenant where a man
-contravenes his agreement, by deed under hand ind feal. See t i
Mod 17.
6,0-. E.
W157
But no afhon of covenant has ever been
brought in England by the affignee of a bond againff the aflignori"
iich furitithes a (arongargdthent that no fuch at'tion will 1i%
SL. Raym. 683 12 Mad. "553. And there has been no judgment
of afiy Court in Pennfylvania upon this point The law is clear
with t epe& -to chattels in poffeffion, that then an exprefs warpanty
at
'is neceffary. 2 Salk. 210. I toStra.
ifatute;
459. See
Bull. N.
P. 272.forProby pofitive
thiseffe&
iniffory notes are afignable
common law, the indorfee could not fue the indorfer in his own
name; See I State Laws, 77.
- That, at leaft, due diligence ought to have been ufed to obtaid
the money ftoin fhe obligot, :0. irthe eafe of bills of exchange, or
promiffoxy notes, where a demdnd fhould noi only- be proved, but
alledged, or it would be fatal on a writ of error. See Doug. In
the prefent cafe noua&ion was ever biought, nof any other attempt
alledged to have been made for the recovery of the money, from the
perfon who was Qriginally bound tb pay it.
'

8UPR'EME COURT of

Pinnfylvania.

449

I789.
1Por the Plaintiff, in anfwer to thefe obje&ions, it was infifted,
1
that the afignment wasunder thea& of affenibly; andthefollowing
books were cited. i Bac. A4hr. 527. 30. 2 Cam. Dig. 560. a. 4;,
2 Black. Rep. 164o. L. Rayma. 442. 1 Salk. i33. That, by all the
cafes cited, it appeared, that the word affigned ariounts to a cdve'-*
nant that the moneyjhould he paid; that it was immaterial whether the
affignment was legally made to Lynn, cir not ; fince, if he had afligned what he had not a right to afign, that would in itfelf be a breach
to fupport an afion of covenant ; that a bill, originally negotiable,
will be fo in the hands of every indorfce, although, the indorfement
fhould not be to order. i Black. 295. 1 Stra. 5 5 7 .- And that as
this bond was afignable in its nature, by virtue of an aa of'affembly, the defendant, having undertaken to afign it, rendered himfelf
liable in an a&ion of covnant to every fubfequent affignee. And
that if a demand was at all neceffary, it fufficiently appeared in the
general allegation in the declaration.

The CHIEF JUSTIc E now delivered the unanimous opinion of
the Court i-That the affignment by jofeph Parkerto Jofiph Lynn
was not an affignment according to "thea& of affembly (I State
Laws 77.) but only a tiansferof the equitable intereft in the bond; and
that 7of.ph Lynn could not by virtua thereof maintain an a&ion againif the obligor in his own name. The bond was payable to
Leflargette; and, although Parker might have releafed it, it could
only at common law, be fued or affigned by the former, See Jenk.
Cent '22s, ca. 75.
That Jofeph Lynn, the defendant, only affigned his equ'tdaie intereft in the bond to George'Turner. It appears indeed manifeflUy
by the previous afignment of j:feph Par-r (which was equally
to afknown to Turner and to Lynn) that he had no other intcref"
fign. It is, therefore, the mere transfer of a ch.,e in aton; and,
even if an aaion of covenant might have been brought by George
Ylurner againif Lynn on the word affigned.; yet, no fuch a tion could
be maintained again him by the prefent Plaintiffs, as Lynn's aflignment is not made to George Turner and his aligns.
That the covenant implied by the worl aigned,extends.only to
this, that the aflignee fhould receive the money from the obligor to
his own ufe ; and, if the obligee fhouid receivt it, that then the affignor would be anftverable over for it.'
BY TH E COURT :-For Ithefe reafons, let judgment be entered
for the Defendant.

0ES NEL
T

verfus MUSSY.

HE Defendant w;is brought before the Court on a Habeas
Corpus, when the following fa-ts appeared ;-That this fuit
had
L II

