Si PRtii

CoURT of Pennrjyvania

49

might certainly have been effe&ed, notwithftanding that right of
dower& - And why hould not the fame be done in the cafe before
the Court? The devifee held the moiety allotted, to her, fubje& to
the claim of dower;. and, in doing thig, there was nothing inconfiaent, or uncommon -,. Nor, Gan we perceive, how 4he recovery
in partition,, eftops the Demandant from faying, that fhe has a
claim. of dowex in that part of the.premiffes which has been affigned.
to the Tenaw-. As, indeed, on the one hand, there is no cafe,
nor didun of any Judge, to warrant this plea, fo, on the other,
The cafe cited by the
we think reafon and juffice are againft it.
c6unfel for the Tenants only fays, that, iii dower, the Demandant claims dower of lands unde nihil babel &c. and, therefore, flie
hall be flopped from claiming any thing more.
Upon the whole, THEr, COURT are clearly of opinion, and dize&, thatjudgment be entered for the Demandant.

ZAN2 ZINGER

versfu

POLE.

A

MOTION being made for a'Iule upon the Sheriff to return
a Venditioni Expanas, THE CIAEF JUSTICE, upon a doubt
expreffed by that officer, faid, that, by the fpirit and words of the
ad of Affembly, the Sheriff muft fell not merely to the hight), but
to the be_/, bidder; that, therefore, if the higheft bidder was unable to pay, the Sheriff might make an offcr to the next higheft ;
and that if the property was not. paid for after a fale, the return
fhould be, that " the premiffes were knocked down to A- 13. for
"fo much; that the faid A. B. has not paid the purchafe -money,
" and; that, therefore, the premiffes remain unfold."

PATTON

verfUS

CALDWELL.

rTHIS was an aion on a policy of irifurance, upon the trial of
X which, Lewis, for the Plaintiff, offered to read in eyidence a
fpecial verdi& that had been given in another uaion upon the fame
Sergeant hnd Ingerfol
policy, but againft a different underwriter.
objeced, that the verdi&. was given between other parties, and,
therefore, not admiflible ; upon which Lewis proved an agreement
of all the undei writers to be bound by one verdi&.
M'KEAN, ChiVf Juficit.-The objection turns upon this principle, that the Defenaz -t had no opportunity of crofs-examining
upon the former trial; and the anfwer is, that he, with the reft of
the underwriters, had agreed to be bound by one ierdi& ; which.
is certainly the only ground for offering the evidence propofed by
&hePlaintiff's counfel.

Ggg 2

Whfether

1789.

