23

CASES.ruled and adjudged in the

1776.

April Term, 177 6,
Before CHEw, Chief Juftice.
LAWRENck, Juitice.

STEINER verJUs FZLL

and others.

LAINTIFF brought an q~ion ofdebt'on an arbitration Bond
in Bucks County, Common Pleas. Defendant pleaded n ui
award.Plaintiff replied, and Let forth an award. I i September Term,
175, Plaintiff got a rule for rejoinder in lix weeks, orjudgment
Before the fix weeks expired, defendant's attorney gave hih a rejoinder, and, at the fame time, ihewed him a Ha/'0s Corpus, by
which he intended. to remove the caufe to the next Supreme Court,
Plaintiff, chufing, that the proceedings fhould go up ab6ve, as they
werE below, took out a Certiorari,and, going into court the firft
day of the term, got it allowed-The next day the defendant prefented the Habeas Corpus, to which plaintiffs attorney obje&ed, f%.
that the record was removed by the erlioeari- The Court below
agreed to fend up both writs, and let the Supreme Court receive thf
record on which they pleafed.
Now it came on to be argued, and the plaintiff-s council contend:
ad, that the record fhould be received only on the Certiorari; irP.
for that, when ihe other writ was prefented, there was no recors
before the court, on which the Habeas Corpus could operate, pnd thai
the power of the court below was exercifed. Xerondly, that if that
could not be'allowed, yet both writs might be returned reddendofingula
ngulhs ; the Certiorarimightremove the caufe, and the Habeas (orpus
he body; and there was no inconfiitency in fo. doing.
The defendants council relie4 it on the advantage taken of him,
and on the conflant pra&ice of the- court with refpe& to writs of
removal.
BY T14E COURT. Whenever a writ iffue fairly, if it is firflr
delivered it fhall take preference-The proceedings,on aHaheasCorpus
are de novo ; on a certiorari, the court proceed 9n the Rlate returned.
Therefore, both writs cannot iffue in the fame caufe; for the
court cannot proceed de novo and on the old record too'; which.up6n

the idea of returning both writs mufl. be done.
the dfcIndan; no: having affeced delay,

In this cafe,

but proceeded. in the

ufuat

SUPRKME COURT of Pennaylvania.

ufual courfe, havhig taken out the firft writ, and delivered ft as
oon as was ufual, his writ fhould take preference; and the Cvurt
accordingly order the return to be m.tde oAi the Habeas Copus.

WHEELER

Affignee of Baynton'verf. HUGHES EX.

T.OHN HUGHES, the 16th of. Fbruary 1763, gave his beed

to .,btn Bayntn, conditioned for the payment of one thou fnd
pounds. On the 3 d September, x764, J hn Baynton and Sainu4
IP7aTrton, became bound jointly and feverally, to 7ohn Hughes ir a
bond conditioned for the payment of fix hundred and eight pounds
fifteen fhillings. 0n the 8th of Aay 1765, 7ohn Bayntcn, afligned
the one thouland pound bond to the plaintiff, Ann ifheeer, for a
juR debt, Ihe being ignorant of any dealing, between Hughes an.d
Baynton. This aaion was brought on the affigned.bond ; the defendint pleaded payment, and offerd in evidence the bond dated in
September, in bar of the plaintiff's recovery. To this the council
f6r the plaintiff obje&ed, and this day, viz. 23 d April, the caufe
came on to be argued.
The Council for the Plaintiffcontended, that by the * & of affembly, bonds, bills and notes were negotiable, as promifforv notes
in England under the 3 and 4 Ann. cap. 9 ; that negotiability imported a currency from hand to hand ;. that this a61 of affembly was
formed on the plan of the flatute, in many places ufing the fame
words, and being made for the fime purpofe, viz. to encuragctrae:
and onterce, which could only be effeed by fich a conftru&ion,
as that an afligned bond Ihould have a currency, from Hand to hand,
and that the poffeffor fhould recover, independent of any contradts
or dealings between the obligor and obligee; that the claufe in the
a& of affembly, " Should commence and profecute his, her, or their
a&ions at law, for the recovery of the money mentioned in fuch
" bonds or notes, or fo" much thereof, as thadl appear to be due at
" the timeof fuclr affignment," meant as lhll appear on the face.
of the inftrument itfelf-That, for this reafon, the obligor lhould
either guard, in making the contra&, by leaving out the negotiablewords', or fhouldget his payments indorfed on the bonds; that the"
words, " Tor recover as the'perfon or perfons to whom the fame
was or were made payable," only referred to the mode of recovery,
where the allignee brought his aaion in his own name, as he might
ufider this a&t; that any 9ther conftru6ion would defeat the intention of the a&, which was to ericou r e trade and commerce; but
if the aflignee was to take the bond fubje& to the dealing between
the obligor and abligee, there was an end of this fpzcics of'traffick, as
no one would ever take an a ligned bond in the courle of trade, or in
any other cafe,but of a doubtfil or defpeiate debt.
To fhew that a third perfon, coming in konaJfiee, and for a valuable
onfideration, would be in a better fituation than his vehdor, the.
'

Gv. X. e. 8. See r Stts Laws. 77.

following

