SUPREME CouRT of Pennfyivania.

409

wards, as to.thole which were previonfly, emitted by Congrefs:A matter that we are not bound, nor are we inclined to counfenance.

This opinion, unanimoufly formed, upon mutual confultation,
and full aelberation, leads to a more particular confideration of
the evidence; and, it the Jury think thatthe bifis of credit, or any
part of them, which were tendere I to the PlaintiTon the 2gth of
March, 178o, were emitted fibfeqient to the 2 9 th of yaauar',
1777, they muff only give this tender the effie& at common law.
It may be proper here to notice, that there were two biils of
thirty dollars each, in tha bundle of paper money tendered; and
the Plaintiff's counfel has faid, that there were no bills of triat denomination emitted prior to the 2 9 th of 7anzuay, 1777. But he is
certainly miftaken; as I remember well the trial oi a man for cort.terfeiting a t/irty dollar bill emitted :n 1775 and, th. rore, this
circurnftance is by no nreans concifive.
But fhould the Jury, upon th who,: of the evidence, find, that
this tender was made in bills of credit emitted fince the 2 9 th of a,mary, IY77, and fo not an abfolute difcharge o the eebt, they will
next enquire, in what manner the .bond ought now to be paid? -By
thea& of the 3 d of April, 178r, it is declared, that all debts and
contrac's entered into between the it of 7anuary, 1777, and the
ift of March, i78r, fliall" be liquidated according to the fcale of
depr'eciation. The Plaintiff, therefore, is not entitled to recover
the whole loo. in fpecie, but only fo much as that firn in paper
money was worth at the time the contraft was entrcd into ; which
was on the 24th of April, 1777 : Nor is he entitled to any intereft
from the date of the tender until this aaion (which is to be confidered as a new demand) was inflitnited.
The Jury found a verdid in favor of the Plaintifffor C272 3. 4.
debt with cofts: from which, it feems, that they were of opinion,
that the tender was not made entirely in bills of crediz emitted before the i 9 tb of 7a7mary, 1777; and that they purfued the directiows
of the Court in.that alternat:ve.

S TELE

VerfZLS

STEELE.

'rjns

,,as an il-ue joined on the fafts aliedged in a li!el for
- a divorce; and, upon the trial, the CHIEF jusrc, obferved, that noti:e jught to be given of the facts intended r be
proved ':nde- th:- g-,eral ,.llegations of the libel.
Ru.:.,
iyice. I thirk it ikould be in )ft convenient to give noice, rt~a' bcween rw, fpecific dates, a-s of cruelty &c. were intcndzd to be proved.
'Fn r. CuPRT-efi-nd
to adopt thac idca, and rcco'nzmcndd it
'or tae future pradc: (A -he bar.
SMIT14

T789.

