COURT of COMMoN PLFAs of Phiadephia County.

37!

There maft then be fome collateral matter, fome injury to the 1788.
Plaintiff, or benefit to the Defendant, in the confideration itfejff laid
as a ground for the affumption. It the Defendant had promifedto
the Plaintiff, having poffeffion of the note, and a power to fue for
the money (though not in his own name) that if he would forbear
to fue him, he would pay it; or, if the promife had been in collfideration of his delivering the note up to be cancelled ; thefe proimifes, though made to a porfon not having an aflignment of the
note, would perhaps have been fufficient to ground an afanpfitupon.
But this is a bare promife to pay to the Plaintiff, a ftranger, in
confideration of a fale and delivery of the note by the payee to him,
a confideration moving neither to, nor from, the Defendant, and
which could not redound either to his benefit or injury.-Beides,
the promife laid, istopay to the Plairitiff, according to the finor-and
efee of the note, and the tenor and effe& of the note was to pay to
Yee'row, or his order, and not to any perfon to whom he thould fell
and deliver it.

If the note had been payable to 7effyiroew, or Bearer,

a bonafide purchafer of it might have maintained the aclion ; becaule fuch notes pafs by delivery: But a note payable to order, muft
be ajigned, to enable the holder to bring the a&ion in his own name.
Bonds in England are every day afligned, attended with irrevocable powers to fue for the aflignees ufe: Such an affignment one
would think would be full evidence of a fale and delivery, -yet no
a&ions are ever brot'ght on that ground, but always in the name ot
the obligees.
We would intend every thing we could to fupport the verdi&;
from thattowhich
but we cannot intend a confideration quite differentwe
giv.were
if
is laid, which we muftdo in the prefent cafe,
our opinion in favor of thePlaintiff.
Thejudginent, therefore, muft bearrefted.

GiBBS

verfus

G R s.

TJHE cafe was briefly this :-A certain Aaron Mufgrove hadI
brought a qui tam affion againft the Defendant, Ann Gibbs,
in which, alter a trial in the Supreme Cour, he obtained ajudgment.
en thefe:ond day of OOober, 1788 ; but no execution was thereupon
iffued. On the fourth day of the fame month, however, the Defendant lhaving then confeffed judgment in this Court to the Plain.
tiff, Benjamin Gibbs, a F. fa; was iffued in this caufe, and duly
executed upon a houfe and lot of ground in Pbi!adelhia; after which
Mrs. Gibbs committed an act of bankruptcy, and the Sheriff paid
the money levied by virtue of the F2i.fa. into' the hands of the rothonotary, to be difpofed of as the Court ihould dire&.
In-the courfe of the argument, 'there were fome infinuations of
t
collufion, with refpe& to the fecondjudgment ; but as no pro. was.
offet6d, the only queftion before the Court was, whether, under. aft
the
Aaa z

372
.-.788.

CAsrs ruled and adjudged in the

the circun'iflances of the,'cafe, Mufgrove's'priOrjudgmen t was" en-

Stitled to fatisfa& on out,9f the money levied on the

i. fd. in pre-

ference to the fubfequent judgment on which the writ 'had iffued.?
See 338ateI Laws'655.-fez. 30.
Bradfordand Se;,eant, arguing in favor of tie prior iudgmuent, ad-mitted, that it was no lien againt. the Aigmts"ot't16 bankrupt, or
the.general creditors under- the commiflion ; but contended, that,
unlefs it 'was for the general benefit, no conflrufion of the a&'of
Affembly flon'ld be made- to diveft the lien which the priority of
Mlufgrove's judgment- hAd obtained: a lien, they. infild, clearly
*bindingas to a purchafor, and, confequently, as to a perfon levying
on ,real eftate, who is to be confidered, inthat refpe&, a purcliafor.
'T"hey faid, that they had not been able to find ny authority. lore
in point than 1-P. if ill. -37. but'urged, that the want of a direr
precedent was in their favor; for, if the attempt todcflroy a lien of
Ahis.kind could have fuceeded, it'muft frequently hae occurred in
the uniform ftrugg!e that had been made- to defeat the bankrupt laws
6f England.
It was fiirther obferved, -that there had be no tastbes on the part
;fMufgrve, for hc could n6t iitiie an eyecutibn 'till the expirztion
of fdur days after hisjudgment was obtained; that it was effiblifhd
long before the ftatute of frauds-, that the firfl judgment iliall be firfi
.paid; alrtlough the execution was iffued upon a fubfequenf one ;
that the ftatute and our a& of Affembly made no other alteration in
the common'ilaw, than that of fubflituting the day of docketing for
the relation'to the firift day of the term; and that, therefore, independent of the bankrupt law, Tfufgrove's claim was indifputable., But they alfo ccntended, that, tAking the bankrupt law into view,
it did not interfere between lien- and lien'at common 12w ; but is
merely di'ireory in the"3o. fJe. how tlie:dbts fall be paid where
no executibn has been ljvled. The words d6 not include the.cafe;
and a former flatute, or rule of common law, cann6t be repealed or
Nor could the iniention'of the Legiflaannulkd, by implicatiof'.
ture embrate it; for, that vas to make'an equal difiribution among
the creditors at large; and not to afcertain a right, as between two
*indivi4uals.-. Whether, indeed, it is a real or pretended debt for
which the fecond judgm nt is confefeti, there are no means to.prove
frbm the want of a Court of Chancery ; and whether the conihitfioners might recover the nioney from ALf fgravris a queflion, that
cannot affer the pefenrtcoiitroverfy, or give. G(ibbs a right toretain
not otherwife have.
which heit,
. Ingerfol
and.w)uld
Lewis, for the Plaintiff in the execution, flated, that
by the bankrupt latw, executions, morigages, and pledges, were
confidered in the fame light; and that therile of, law in the diftri"bution'of a bankrupt's eflate,- placed all other dcfcrptionis of creditors on the fame footing, regarding the qifantity, aid' nt the
q1alitJ' of their. debts. Green, iJ. L. 1o. 1o. 136. 146. x9o.
* 12 Moi'. 4.46. Co1. Dg., 532. 2 Black. CoV,. 487. * Bar.,4br. 258.
They inliilud,- as the property would indifputaby vcft in the commitlioners, •

COURT of COM ioN PLEAS of Philade~lpa County.

373

miflioners if not prevented by the execution, that, therefore,. the x788.
quefflon lay properly between Gibbs and the Aflignees, and not
between him and Mufgrcw, who could not, with any fhew of right
retain the money againfl the general creditors, even if the Court
were, at this time, to order it to be paid to him. They faid, that
the very points now made, were urged and over-ruled in the cafe
cited for A(ufgrcve ; I P. Wn. 737. and it is declared in feveral
cafes, that a judgment did not bind lands any more than the tefit of
a Fi.fa. did goods, befbre the ftatute. Ibid. 9-z Vf 239.436.
But the very exiflence of a prior lien in favor of ZIIufgrove was
controverted; becaufe the a6t ofAflimbly (i State Laws 467. 3Jin
refpe&a to the docketing of judgments, only alters the law in the
cafe of bonafide purchafbrs for a valuable confideration; and does
not affe& the cafe of two judgment creditors, whofe liens frill relate
to the firft day of the term.. On this 'ground, therefore,. the judgment confellid to Gibbs in the Commn Pleas, is prior to that obtained by PAlqfgrov . in the Supreme Court; for the term in the Cornmn Pleas commenced on the 7th o S,'teenter; but the term in the
,Sztw'eme Court did uot commence .unrit the 24th day of the fame
rnoMh; fo that, hideptndent of the bankrupt law, the legal relation to th]w firfi d. y of the telin eltablities the right of Gib, on the
prt-fiut controverfy.
Eut the bankrupt law is in itfelf clearly decifive; and that an advcrfe precedent is ndt to be found, muff prove the uni, erfal fenfe of
the Courts of Juffice in Engl4nd to be in favor of the Plaintiff's
do&rine. As,. therefore, the general rule, with regard to an execution: executed, includes his cafe, and excludes the cafi of Miufgre, it .is incumbent upon the latter to fhew, if he .can, any exception on which he may reft his prefent claim. The principle,
indet d, as well as the praffice of the law, is on the fame lide. If,
after the execution executed, the commiflioners had taken the
houif and fold it, they would, undoubtedly, have been liable to
Gibbs in an a6lion for money had and received to his ufe: but will
it be ailerted that Mzfrsove could maintain fuch n naion, having
no execution executed-? Nor can it be juftiy faid, that the commiffioners are not intereftkd in the quefltion now agitated; for, if
the proceeds of the eflate fold under the Fi. ft. are enough to pay
both, both, according to the oppofite doehine, mvft be paid, and
only the balance go to the commifloncrs. But there it no cafe
which can make a difference whether the money is, or is not, Rffficient to pay the amount of the execution; and fhould Afqfgrve
prevail againif Gibbs, for fimilar reafons lie muft prevail againl
the commiffioners-to the manifeff violation of the Words and fpitit of the law.

SuFirP-N, Prefident.-The motion ;n this care is made in behalf' of one ul'ujgrve, who is faid to be a prior judgment creditor,
in order to have the money which has been levied and.brought it'o
Court under the Plaintit's" execution, paid to him inflead of the
Thiv
Plaintiff.

374
1788.
L

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

This is obje&ed io, on the ground that the Defendant became a
bankrupt previous to the ferving or iffuing any execution againft the
eflate, except the prefent one, at the fuit of the Plaintiff, and that,
therefore, he alone is entitled to the money.
The queffion arifes upon the 3oth Stgion of the bankrupt la-.,
which ena&s, "That every creditqr having fecurity for his debt by
"judgment, fpeciality, or other fechrity, whereof there is no exe"cution ferved and 'executed upon the lands, goods, and eftate, of
"'the bankrupt before -fuch time as he fliall
become a bankrupt,
"hhall not be'relieved upon any fuch judgment, &c for any more
" than a rateable part of their debts, with the other creditors."
This fe&ion of the a&, is fimilar to one in the Itatute of Yames,
and mull therefore receive the fame conftru&ion ; and the rational
and legal conftru&ion appears to be, that no judgment creditor who
has not levied his execution, fhall ree.eive any benefit from his judgment, as to te lae or effees of the bankrupit,ve/)edin the Conimioners
of bankruptcy by the a&, to the exciufon or prejudice of the creditors at

large, but muff be put upon the fame footing with them; yet, as
to any liens which do nor affe& the general creditors, he will have
the benefit of them in the fame manner as if the a&tr had never been
mnade.
This conftru6tion accords with the cafe cited in fupport of the
motion out of i. Peere 0'lns. 737. The principle of that cafe, fo
far as refpe~s the prefent purpofe, is this, that where there is a
prior judgment, and afterwards a fale of the toland,
and then a banklandfubje7 the prior lien, which
inuft
be for
the purchaferhold
this piain reafun,thethat
ruptcy,
in that cafi there was no poflibiIty that the creditors of the bankrupt could be prejudiced by it,
thethe.
land
being a~lually; and,
old before
the bankrutcyand
ia
Commiflioners
confequently,
th~ere was never
,o m"veited
as to
them,
it could only fubfift
again the purchafer,
and was not at all
nffet1ed by the bankrupt laws, asit was indifferent to the creditors
whether it fi'bfifted or not.

nlthe prefent cafe1 there has been no a& of the party previous to

the bankrupcy to prevent the veiling of the eftate inathe Commifioncr; and, confequently, all liens, if they operate at all, uft operate
to their prejudice; which is contrary to the exprefs intent or the
a&,
whichofdireas
that theycreditors
flal take
create,
the claims
fuchjudgment
whothehad
etiedfubje& only to

tious upon it.

their execuFor, if any judgment creditor, who has no execu-

tion,
under
the idea of his having a prior lien, could have the benefit o1
the execution
transferred to him,

then not only that crediaor,
but all the prior" judgment creditors
be aund
fatisfied, before
ite Commifioners could take any
to divide among thegenra
creditors, as they would all have an equal right with hno.
It is faid, that, although the Court hould order the prior judg.ent cieditor to be firth
paid, there would be no injurydone to the
oter crejditors, becafe the Commiftioners might recover the muney frm him, if jdot
he was
iltled to it: Whether they could,
oec

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of P.biiad pl'a Coun:Y.

375

or could not, recover it from him, will, I think, make no :...erial difference as to the prefent motion.

It mulf, however, be ob-

ferved, that, if he can claim this money at all, it muft be under the
,xecution, and as execution creditors are lived, it would be very
queftionable whether the Commiffioners could rezover it from him.
If they couldnot, then the creditors at large mull be poftponed to
him and the other judgment crdditors ;-if they could recover it,
then it would not only be a vain thing to order the money into his
hands, as he muff, by a circuity of a&ion, be obliged to refund it,
but it would, in fat, be ordering it into the hand; of a perfon not
intitled to receive it: And the confeqtfence would be, that the real
execution creditor, whofe claim is faved by the a&, would infallibly be cut out of his preference.
Whetherthisis, or is not, a hmafide debt, is not the fubje.t of
0ur prefent enquiry. If any fraud could b- proved, this Court
would certainly on motion fet afide b3th the execution and the
judgment, but that could ndt be for the benefit of the prior judgment creditor, whofe claim is found:d u.5an t. cxecutioz ; but for
the benefit of the creditors at larg- tinder the Commilflion; who
may fill have a remedy by a&ion, if they can Ili--w the execution
to have been collufive and unfair.
The only quelhon, however, now betore us, is whether a prior
judgment creditor fhall come in unde.r this excccuion, whizh we
-think he cannot, as it wouJd defeat the exprefs intent of the bankrunt la.2W

M'CLENACEIAN

et al. ve fz s

M'CA'RTY.

"-HIS was a Foreign Attachment, in which judgment was enter-.
I
ed at the third term; and a writ of inquiry 'being afterwards
executed, a motion was made, on behalfof the Defendant, to quafh
the return, becaufe thc Sheriff and Inquell had rafufcd to hear his
evidence at the time of executing the writ.
On the argument the nature of the evidence that had been exciuded, wa- Itated, and Igerfoll, in fup.port of the motion, contended-ift, That, upon giieral principles, both .parti.-s are entitled
to be heard befibre the i'.nqueflc; and that, aith. ugh they arc bound
to find ronie damages, yer, if there is no proof of any being fultained, they will find no more than a tingle penny ; and that merely to
fatisfy the form of the p.-oceeding.
"The writ commands the Inquell diligently tq cnrpir: wL'hat damiaUs c. fo that to inform their
conlciences, they ought certainly to hear the allegations of both
parties; and if they afei' the damages too high, or too low, their
return will be fet afide, which proves that the Court has a fuperintending power over Jurj.s of Inquiry. 2 Lill. Abr. 721. -2. Sayre's
Law c/'Dan1.3. 193 203. 233.
It is a maxim, indeed, that
damges c.Annot b. aiieiied without a Jury. 3 Ri. Com. 395. 396. 7.
and

1788.
-

