SUPREME COURT of Pennfyivania.

233

form a code which pervades all nations, and mult be every whzre
acknowledged and purfued.
Upon the whole, it is clear, that this tranfa&ion does not arife
infraudem legis, and that extending the law of lVar).landto its prefent
obje&, will be in no degree derogatory to the independence and
fovereignty of this ftate :-Therefore, let the exoneretur be entered.

REsp JBLICA

verfus GORDON.

'TldE Defendant was included in an a& of proclamation ifued

.Ldur*ing the late war, 'and not appearing within the tine prefcribed, was attainted of treafon for adhering to the king of Great
Britain, in confequence of which his elate was confifcated to the
ufe of the commonwealth, but it had never been taken into poffeflion.
He returned, fince the peace, to the ltate of Pennfylvania, and applied to the executive ccuncil, reprefenting that he was a minor at
the time of the attainder, and-was forcibly prevented by his guardian
from joining the American army ;-for which reafons he prayed a
reftoration ot his eltate. The council faid, they were ready to grant
him a pardon,' but that they had it not in their power to rellore his
eate, which was a matter of legiflative jurif!!iCtion. Mr. Gordon,'
therefore, addreffed feveral members of the general affembly, but he
was there anfwerel, that the executive council, or the fupreme court
ofjuftice, was the proper tribunal to hear and determine the merits
of his cafe. The D fendant, by the advice of his council, .gain
applied to the executive power, and requefted, that, to bring the
matter before the judges, the attorney-general might be dire&ed to
file a fuggeflion in the fupreme court, of the Defendant's being attainted in the manner above-mentioned.
This being done accordingly, Mr. Gordon gave bail for his appearance, -ind two pleas, ill. infancy, and 2dly. durefs, were filed, to
the fuggeffion thus made, on the behalf of the commonwealth to the former of thefe, the attorney-general demurred, and joined iffue on the latter.
But now

THE C

*r
I FJtUsTIcE delivered the opinion ofthecourt,that

any proceedings againf. Mr. Gordon, the Defendant, would contravene ant exprefs article in the treaty of peace and amity, entered
into, between the United States of America and Great B'itain, for
which reafon they could not fuflain the fuggeftion filed by the attorney-general. And the Defendant was accordingly difcharged.
STEINM ETZ

The obje& that the Defendant meant to accomplifi by this Proceeding, was to
reverfe the attainder; in confequence of which his title to the eflate would revive,
and, as it had not been appropriated or difpofed of by the Commonwealth, thbre.
would then be no obilacle to his taking immediate pofff.iion. The Legiflature foqu

afterwards paffed an, a6 in favor of Mr. G#rdon's pretcnflons.

GgS

178'

