1.62
t-186.
L

.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

As to the forms ot their proceeding, both parties ihould have
an opportunity of being heard, and that in the prefence of each
other, that they may be enabled to.apply their teflimony to the allegations. The witneffes,.on both fides, are likewife, to. give their
evidence in the prefence of. the parties, that they may have an
opportunity of crofs examining them. No furprife is permitted,
fuch as reftfing the parties a reafonable time to bring forward their
wirnefles, or refuting to hear them when they are brought. Thefe
rules, or fimilar ones, are founded in batural jullice, and are abfolutely ncceftiry for the due adminiftration of juffice in every form
whatever'.
As to the kind of evidence which the referrees may hear, there
always has been, and mufl neceffarily be, in this kind of tribunal,
a very great latitude. The parties, generally unaflufled by counfel,
are permitted to relate their own flories, and confront each other ;
their witneffes are'heard even without an oath, unlefs the contrary
is ifipulated, or the referrees require it. Books and papers are infpe&ed and examined by. them, without regard to their being fuch
as would be flri&ly evidence in a Court of law. And this practice being known to both parties before they agree to the reference,
and the advantages arifing from it. being mutual, there feems no
juf- reafon to tomplain of it.
In public trials in Courts of law, the judge' fit to -fuperintend the
evidence, and no int~refted witneffes are, in general, permitted to
give evidence to the jury ; but referrees occupy the office both of
judge a)d jurymen; their difcretion, therefore, muft neceffarily be
much relied on, and as they are generally unacquainted with the artificial rules of -law, they mufl be guided principally by their own
reafon. If we were once to fet alide a report, becauft the referrees had heard an interefted wifnefs,'wc fhould open a door for
fuch a variety of obje6tions, that fcarcely a fingle report would
ftand the teft. Papers not formally or legally prov.ed, or hearfay
evidence admitted, would be as fatal to reports, as the admiflion of
interefted 3vitneffes, being equal violations of the rules of evidence.
Rule difcharged.
OGDEN verfrs AsH.
THIS was Qn a&ion upon a policy of infurance on the- Ship
Brothers, which came before tiie Court 'upon a cafe flated,
whereifi the fingle queftion was, whether a warrant inferted in the
policy, had been complied with on the part of the infured, or not?
After argument, T.H E PRESIn.NT flated the point, and delivered the
"
opinion of. the Court.
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-The policy in this cafe, is on the outward bound voyage, wherein it is warranted "that order will be
-iven

COURT of COMMON PLEAS, Philadelphia County.

163

"given thai the Shipfoall not crujfe." Whether fuch orders have, 1786
or have .not, been given, is the queftion. before the Court.
The'orders which were given, are produced. They confif of inftru&ions which, in the former part, relate to the outward bound
voyage, and, in the latter, to an intended cruife for two or three
months, after the outward bound voyage, which was the fole cbje& of the infurance, ihould be completed.
The inftiu&ions with regard to -the outward'boilnd' voyage, begin with an account.of the cargo, to whom it is configned, and
give the ufual direitions in, mercantile voyages, how it is to be
difpofed of, and how the proceeds fhall be applied. The captain
is exprefsly dire&ed not to touch at any port to the fouthward of
POhila;Zephia,lef the infurance hould be enaangered,but no fiention. is
made of a crulfe, except that the goods are t3 be fold for the purpofe of fitting her out afterwards fOr a cruife.
It is, however, contended, that fuficient appears on the face of
inf'ru~ions, confidering th& unwarlike condition of the Veffel,
the
and the intent of the voyage,'to fhew, that, though no exprefs dire&ion is given na to cruyfe, yet flhch an implied dire&ion zs given, as
will fatisfy the words of the warranty.
The general intention of the owners, to be colleded from the
inftru&ions, is fufficiently clear, that they did not mean to give the
captain a power to cruife. But what was the intention of the parties in miaking the warranty? Was it, that fuch orders fhould be
given as by coniru&ion or inference, fhould thew that to be the
intention of the owners ? or, was it not, that the captain ihould
be direaed in exprefs terms not to cruift?
If the warranty had been that no orders Jhould be given to cruife,
or that he Jhouldnot, be impowfred by his orders to cruie,.thefe inftructions would certainly have been a- compliance with the warranty;
but the warranty is not negatve, that he fhould not have orders
to cruife, bit.pofitve that he fhould have orders not to cruife.
And in which ever way the warranty had been expreffed, -if th6
captain had cru fed, and the veffel by that means "had been loft, he
would have been anfwerable-So that the refponfibility of the
captain, is not any rule to govern the conftruffion of the policy,
becaufe if he had cruifed without orders, he woulid have been equally liable," a-s if he had cruifed contrary to exprefis orders. The underwriters have ftipulated that more ihoula be done, than would barely
make the captain anfwerable for cruifing. What their reaforls
were, we can only conje&ure; it might be fuppofed, that if the
orders were filent as to his cruifing, he might be tempted, by an
apparent profpe& of gain, to do that, which he would not dare to
do in the face of exprefs orders. It is well known, that there
have been many captains who hava not fcrupled to break orders
which were plain and exprefs ; but there are many more, who,
when their 9rders are loofe or filent, or difcretionary, have run the
rifk of violating the fpirit of them, and relied upon the generality
or filence of their orders, to juftify then.to their owners.
":I

164

CASES ruled and adjudged &c.

In the prefent cafe, the condition of the "'effel did not preclude
the poffibility of cruifing, She mounted'16 guns, the had leave, by
the terms of the policy, to call at Beau/artformen, fhe was intended to be a cruifing vefel after the outward bound 'voyage was completed, and it might not be an unreafonable fu picion in the underwtiters, that the captain, unlefs exprefsly reftrained, might be
tempted to cruife in the outward bound voyage. Whatever their
reafons were, the underwriters had certainly a right to make it a
part of their contra& ; without it, they might have rcfufed to infure
at all, or they would perhaps, have demanded a higher premium ;
and therefore being Afipulated, the owners hould have complied
with it.
Thefe warranties in policies of infurance are required by law,
and by ,the conflant ufage of merchants to be ftri&ly complied
with ; they are generally expreffed in a few words, but where they
are plain and clear, it would be of dangerous confequence to this
ufeful branch of mercantile bufinefs, to introduce a loofe conftru&ion of them.
We are of opinion, upon the cafa fiated, and a view of the policy and orders, that the warranty has not been complied with, and
that judgment fhould be given for the defendant.
Judgment for the defendant.
MARRIT

et ux, verfus DAvEY et al. Executors.

T

HIS was an a&ion brought by a refiduary legatee under the
a& of the I2.Geo. 3. c. 16. x St. L. 4,49. to which the
defendant pleadedfully admin/ifered. The plaintiff thereupon moied for the appointment of auditors; but the defendant obje&ed,
becaufe his accounts had already been left by confent to refertees, on a former citation before the regifter of wills, &c.
THE CouaR, however, determined, that the former fettlement
was not conclufive ; and that, by the words of the a&, it was intended, new auditors hould be appointed, ex tenipore, upon the plea
of want of affets.
Rawle, for the plaintiff, Sergrant, for the defendant.
STOTESBURY

verfus

COVENHOVEN.

0

N an affidavit that the defendant was in confinement, and that
witneffes in his favour were about to leave the ilate,
THE COURT granted a rule to take their depofitions, although the
writ was not returnable 'till- the next term.
\material

SOMERS Vc~fus BALABREGA.

IT was

ruled in this cr-ce, that an Attorney's agrcemcnt te
refer, binds his Client.'
St: I ME

