SUPREME COURT of Pennf

April Term,

The Claim of

JACOBS

lvania:

1781,

verfus ADAMs Executor

H I S cafe had been argued on the 3d of _7uly by Lewis for the
Claimant, ind Bradfordfor the eftate of Adams. Thefornwr
cited 2 P. 91711. 157, 154. Prafl. Rrg. Barn. 151. 3 Wzr. 206.
2 Burr io8 3 .- The lattrr cited io Mod. 277. 6 Mod. 167.
And now, the 8th of July, the CHIEF JUSTICE ftated the queftion, and delivered the opinion of the Court, to the following effe&
M'KEAN, C. 7. The Teflator, Flowers, and "7acobs, entered
into an agrtement for the fale of certain lands i oon after which
Flower's died, and Yacohs paid the purchafe money to his executors.
The will, however, which appointed thefe executors, was afterwards fet afide, having been obtained by undue influence ; and Ja,os filed the prefent claim to recover the money that he had thus irproperly paid.
he only queflon fubmitted to the confideration of the Court, is,
whether under thefe circumifances, interefi ihould be allowed ?
If there appeared, on the part of the executors, any thing like afupipretffo yri, orfuggSfliofalfi, our decifion would, oerhaps, he different from that which we have formed. But on the prefent complexion of the tranfa&ion, we think nointerefit ought to be allowed.
In Pentnrts, it is faid, that no intereft is lawful, and, in many
othercafes, that it cannot be recovered, unlefs given by a pofitiveflatute. When the St. of H. 7. c.
was paired, a queftion arofe,
whether intereft might he allowed pending a writ of error; and it
was refufed. In the cafe of promilrory notes, however, where
aday certain is fixed for payment, intereft is allowed from the day of
payment ; kind, where no day is fixed, it is payable from the time of
&nand. But in the inflance before us, the money was received, as
Wdl as paid, in a miflake, and neither fraud or furprize can be
imputed to either p irty. Therefore,
Let the claim be allowed for the principal fum which jaobs
had paid, without intereft.
m Hernrj.Expr yerfus ZIfi4. at. at. poft.

G

