225
1787.

CASEs

rleed and adjudged in the

BUSBY
'HIS

verfus BUsBY.

was a cafe flated for the opinion of the Court. It was ariith inflant by Sergeant on the one fide; and
Lewis and Levy on the other. This day the Prefident repeated the
cafe, and delivered the opinion of the Court as follows.
SnIPPEN, Pre/iden.-Thequeftionarifes upon the will of Thomas
Bufy, whether the devife to his wife of a certain pieceof land therein m'entioned, paifes a fee fimple, or an eflate for life only.-Tlhera
are no words of limitation in the devife ; but, it is contended, that
in the introdu6tory part of the will, and by the whole will taken together, it was the clear intention of the teflator to pals a fee. The
intention of the teflator is faid to be the pole Rar to guide the conftruition of wills.-But there are -two qtqalifications to this rule ; i ft
That this intention muft not clafl with the rules of law ; and 2dly
th t where legal technieal terms are wanting, the intention, to fupply then, mull be clear and inanifeft from the words and expreflions in the will.
The will begins with thefe words; " And as to what worldly
eltate I am bleifed with, I difpofe of as followeth"-There are
three devifes which relate to the real eflate : Fir?, a devife " to his
" fon Ifaac Buqjy of the houfe and plantation where the tellator then
" dwelt, with all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, to have,
and to hold unto the faid Zac Bti/ly his Heirs and Aftgns for ever,
he p-iying his brother ten pounds a year during his natural life."
Thefecond dzvife is to his wife of the land now in dif ute, in thefi
words : " 1 give, devife, and bequeath, unto my wife lay; a certain piece of land bu nding on JFPillua. Budy &c. Alo I- give myy
f.id wife one third of fuch moveable eliate as "hall be remaining
" after the payment of my debts and funeral expences, and fuch le" gacies as are herein after given, which/ball he in lieu ofhcrd;w'er or
thirds of my elfat."-H6 then gives feveral pecuniary legacies to
his feveral children, and bequeaths the remaining two thirds of his
perfuinal cila:e to his fon Ifaac and his five lifters, equally to be divided between theni.-And the third anA laft difpolition of his land
is a dire&ion, that his houfe and land by the mill fhould b:! fold by
hU- executor.
The word " Effate" in a will, conneded with a devife, as wlfere
a man gives all the refidue of his eftate, or gives his EJtate in fuch a
p ce, will pafs a fee limple without words of inheritance; becaufe
it thall be intended that he meant to give the whole eflate which he
himfelt had, both as to quantity and quality. The words, "'As to
all my worldly eftate,' in the beginning of tli,- will, unconne6ted
with any particular devife, fhew an intention to difpofe of his
whole jilate, but will not carry an eflate that is clearly omifted ;
but if it be dubious whether it be omitted or not, it will help the
interpretation. There are many cafes in the law booksof wills beginning with thefe words- I Ihall content myfelf'with aniumadverting

..Lgued on the

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadlphia County.

'27

ting upon only two of them, cited, one, on one fide of the queftion,
and the other, on the other fide, as they appear to me to be the molt
fimilar to the prefent cafe, as to this point.
The firft is the cafe of Frygmorton v Hoiday in r Black Rep.
535. and 3 Burr. i6i8.-The will in that cafe began, as here,
" As to all her worldly affairs dnd eflate ;" it is fimilar to it likedifpfing of the refidue of her perfonal eitate, and not menwife in.
tioning the reintv, and alfo in containing a devife of anc ther el/atewith
words of inheritance. Bit there is an ingredient in that cafe, onf
which the greateft ftrefs appears to have ben laid by the Judges;
which was, that, in the devife, the truflee charged the 'houfl and
garden with the payment of fifty pounds out of the yearly rents and
profits; the annual rent was ten pounds a year; the devifze was about feven years old at the death of his mother, and there was a dir61ion that if the devifee hould die in his minority, then the houfe
and garden Thould go to the teflatrix's three daughters f/are and
hare alike.-Here, though the clarge on the Profits, unconfiealed
with other circumflances, would not have pall.d a fee, yet the
Court faid this was a middle cafe, and that the reafon why this mode
ot payment was ordered, was apparently becaule the devif:e was a
minor, and the limitation over, if he'ihould die before the age of 21,
fhewed the teflator meant the heir hould not have it ; for, if the devifee was barely to -take an eflate for life, the time of his death muft
'be immaterialto the devife over ; but limiting it over, only upon the
. Contingency of his dying in his minbrity, fhewed that the teitator intended to gi,e him an abfolute eftate in fee, which he might difpofe of
when he came of age.-The implication was therefore thought by
the Court to be a neceffdry one, and the other'parts of the will aflifted the conftru&ion.
The cafe cited on the other fide as moft material, is the cafe of
Frogm.rton v. k/Vright in 2 Blackfl. R. 889.-There the will began,
as here, " As to all my temporal eflatc;" there were no words ol inheritance in the particular devife, and there was a dilpofition of the
refidue of the perfonal eflate only. There the Court faid, though
the probable intent of the teflator was an 4bfolute difpofition, yet it
is not a certain intent, nor is-it a legal difpofition.-In the report of
the fame cafe, in3 WiPls. 414, the whole will is fet out, and it appears that there were two devifes of lands to his different nephews,
nearly in the fa.me words, and feveral pecuniary bequefts to his other nephews and nieces. The Chie Jufilice there fays, it may
feem probable that the teflator's intention was that -his nephew XX'lliam fihould have a fee ; but it is a clear rule of law that there nmf
be exprefs words or a necej'ary implication to difinherit the heir at
law, and where neither of them app.:ar, the Jegal operation of the
words of the will muft govern. In he cafe firft mentioned, in r
Blackflone, the Court fay, there was a ceffery implication, and, therefore, they determined it a fee: Irv lhe latter cafe, there "'as no neceffary implication, therefore, they determined it only an eflate for
life.
The

x'787.

429
1787.
-

CASES ruled and adjudged &C.

The implications contended for, on the part of the Plaintiff, in
this cafe, do not appear to me to be neceyary implications; they amount at moft toprbableones ; but we are not warranted in departing from the rules of law by probable conje&ures.-And, it may
be queftioned, whether even thefe probabilities, are not overbalanced
by the prefuimptions arifing from the devife of his houfe and plantation to his fon Ifaac BtBUy, in which he carefully and formally inferts
arn hahendum to him, his heirs and ajignsfor ever: And alfo by his adding to the devife of the land in ccntroverfy, that it fhould be in lieu
of her'dcv'r or thrds of his eftate; it being well knowr ia the
colntry that fuch dower or thirds of land is only during life.
We are, therefore, of opinion that iVary Bu7y took only an eftate
for life by the devife.
Judgment for the Defendant.

SUPrREME

