SPt!1AL COURiT Qf
9

Pennfyhaariti.

.17

B fCH, Coux-r.-The firift Rules of Law with regard to Evi.- 176a
"ence opght not t4 be extended to Mercantile Tranfa&ions. In thi
7
Pare, on proying the rand Writing of the Ea6or, let the Account of.
3ales be given in Evidence; which was accordingly done.

jOHN S"ev

verfus: HAWK-INS and-others.

D EBT fur Obligation.-On the plea of payment Defendants of•-I.Jfered to give no Confideration in Evidence, Obje&ed, that
the Confideration of a Bond is not enquirable into) the palling the
Boid being a gift in Law df the money.-To this it was anfwere4d
and fo ruled By THE&CoUT, that there being no Court of Chaiicery
in this Pro-.hcej th~re is a necellity, in order to prevent a failure of
Juftice, to lt the Defendants in under the plea of payment to prcve
miftake or want of confideration: And this the Chief Juilic- faid he
*hd known to be the conffant pra&ice of the Couits of Juiic2 in this
Province for thirty nine Years paft.
For the Plaintiff, the following cafus were cited: PIht'. 308. 5.
Gilb. Rep. i54. Hard. 200. 3 -P. WPil. 222-.

T'7e Lefee of LLOYD verfus TAYLOR.

E

JECTMENT -for Ground in the City of Philadlphia. Merq.
.Vaflers being feized in fee married Peter Llyd. PeterLloyd
and Mercy his Wife convey to Raph Ajhelon in 1727. Ralph .fhet!n reconveys to Peter Lloyd he Land in queflion. Afterwards, iW
1738, on a Judgment againi Peter Lloyd, the Land in quelion was
taken in Execution and fold by the Sherihf to the Defendant tbt
r 3 oo.-Plaintiff claims as H.ir at Law to Mercy Lloyd, infifti*
that his. Mother being a Peme Currrt could not legally convey her
eltate without an examinatiori by 'Writ. And though in the cafe of
Davey vetfus "urnrtried iri
this Court gepfember x.7.64, * it waA
ruled that an acknowledgement of the Deed on a private examina.
tion before a Jpffice ot peace, was rufficient ufider a long Ufage tO
fan&ify her Dted, thotgh notfiiiftly agreeable to La r.; yet here
ihere was not even that acknovvledgment, or private examination.
But it appearing in Evid,rice, that it had been the conitant Ufage
of the Province Formerly foi Pe.nis:GC'ert to convey their Eilates irn
this manner, without an acknowledgment or fep1rate examination;
And thai there were a great number Of iaIiuble Ellates held und,,r
-fuch Titles .which it would be dangerous to impeach at this time of
day, THE COUNT gave a Charge to the Jury in tavour of.the D-:
rendants, founded on the Magim CG',mnis Errorfacit "us. Au4.
ihe Jury accordingly found for the Defendant.
e

.. "

UI.

