-271
1788.
L.,e,.J

CAszs ruled and adjudged, in the

can' it be alledged, that no injury has'been fuflained, fince in the
courfe of things, all the prior indorfors might have failed.
Upon the ihole, we think the ftrength of the evidence is againi
the Plaintiffs; and if the Jury are of the fame opinion, they will find a
verdi& arcqrdingly. But if, on the contrary, they are fatisfied with
the'reafons given for not ra2king an earlier demand, they will find
for them.
The opinion of theCourt being fo unfavorable to the Plaintiffs,
they voluntarily fuffeed a nonfuit, when the Jury were at the bar
ready to return their verdi&. "
In the courfe of the Trial, the Plaintiff; offered John Pringle,
(their immediate preceeding indorfor) as a witnefs ; and, in order
to do away his interefi in the alion, they propofed ftriking his name
ofF thefi'rfl and third bills.of the fet; which were the only bills in
their poffeflion, thefecond, on which the proteft was made, being,
V-they alledged, loft in its paffage from Englandto ,merica.
It was obje&ed by the Defendant, that Prngle's name would
fRill remain upon thefecond bill (which, for any thing that appeared
-to the contrary, might be in the hands of a third perfon) and on the
records of the notary, who made the proteft; fo that he could not
be effe&ually difcharged in the way propofed.
To this, the Plaintiffs counfel replied, that, -where there are
feveral fecurities for the fame thing, a difcharge of one is a difcharge
of the whole ; and they inflanced the cafe of a taptain of a fhip, who
ufually figns three bills of lading, of the fame tenor and date.
But, BY THE COURT: In that cafe, if the captain takes a receipt, he would certainly be difcharged. In the inflance before us,
however, thefecond bill may be in the poffellion of a bonafide purchafer, who will be entitled to fue Py ingle upon it, notwithftanding any
We are of opinlion, that
a& of tlhe Plaintiffs on this occafion.
Pringle is clearly interefied in the caufe, and, therefore, inadmiffibl
as a witnefs.
It was fuggefled, that if the Plaintiffs executed a releafe to Pringle,
he might be made a witnefs ; but Ingeroll, doubting whether a releafe to one indorfor, would not be a releafe to all, did not chufe to
adopt this meafure.
It was alfo ruled, in this caufe, that the cafe in rerm Riports,
being a determination upon general mercantile law, was of authorify here; and that it would have been fo, if it had been determined
in France,8paih, or Holland, as well as in England.

MI11LIN et al. verfus BINCHAM..

T1ffE

Plaintiffs, being difappointed in their evidence, voluntarily
fuffered'a nonfuit. The following points, however, were refolved in the courfe of the trial, to illuftrate which, it is neceffary to
relate the leading circumflances of the cafe.-The Plaintiffs were
owners

SUPREME COURT of PennfylVania.

273

owners of a Privateer called the Rattte.'yie, commanded by Cantain

f'Collough. This Privateer, having taken a valuable prize, during
the late war with GreatBritain, carded her into Aifartinimque,' where
the Delendant refided as agent for the United States. At the time of
her arrival, the Defendant was exceedingly embarrafTed on acco'int
of certain pecuniary engagements, which liehad entered iv!to for the
ioublic ; and, in order'to relieve himnfelf, he applied to captain
,l'PCuitgh for.the ufe of the proceeas of the Prize, offering to pay
the amomunt by bills of exchange, drawn on his corrcoondc&its- irtP?,iladdp.ia, To this propnfd ..IPO'1C4ig-bagreed; a~i,1, on delivering to the Detendant ihe portion of the prize that belonged to the
owuerq, tic bills of exchange were drawn, and regulariy acczpted;
Ni1t when they became due, they were paid in cortin,.nial money.
ar that time, had depreciated to the rate of three p.iper dollars for one hard dollar- The Plaintiffs, at firil, believing this tranfa61ion, between M/'Cullough and the Defendant, to have been on a
public foundation, did not complain of the lofs which it occafioned ;
but F:ttied with the Captain and Crew for their refje6,ive flhares of
the prize, and allowed the bills of exchange, in AIk6'u, ugh's accomits, as a Ipecie charge. Afterwards, however, it wais fuggedtcd
to them, that the whole was a private fpeculation fior the Detendant's
emolument ; and that no part of their funds, which had been thus
transferred to him, was carried into his accounts with the United
States. Under this perfuafion they brought the prefent acion,' to
recover the difference between the value of their effeCts put into the
hands of the Defendant, and the depreciated amount of the continental money, in which the billsof exchange were paid ;-alledging
that-thole eff&Ls had been obtained from 'C uugh under falfe pretences.
I. The principal witnefs for the Plaintiffs, was R'PC, lbugh, and,
in hopes, at all events, to fecure his teflimony (as he was about to
fail on a diflant voyage) a rule had been obtained for taking the depofitions of going witneires, upon the ufual term,:, and fub _L_ to all
legal exceptions. Under this rule, M, Cullough -was, "accordin Iy,
examined by the Plaintiffs, and crofs-examined by the Defendant ;
and his depofition, thus taken, was offered to be read upon the trial.
But two obje6aions were made :-ift, That A- Culleugh was interefted in the event of the caufe, and, tnerefo'e, inadmitfible as A
witnefs, even if he were prefent : and 2d. That nofubpena had iffued to procure his perfonal attendancq at the trial.
i. To thefry2 objedion, it was anfwered hy the Plaintiffs, that it
would appear by M'Cullough's crofs examination, that he, as well as
the whole crew, had been fully fatisfied for their refpe&ive thares-of
the prize motiey, and, confequently, that he'was not interefted in
It was urged that the effe'cts delivered to
T1'e fate of this a6tion.
the Defendant, were not delivered on iV'Cullough'saccounti but oni
the account of the owners of the privateer, as, ttemappropiiated
part of the prize; that, therefbre, having fultained-no-lof, he won ,.
not be entitled to any retribution; and that, in fa&, the only. qu=ition "
Mm

v788.

,

274
1788,
4_...-ai

CASES ruled and adjudged iti the

ftion arifing from the tranfa6lion at Martinique, now lay exclufively
between the Plaintiffs and the Defendant, whether the former fhould
receive from the latter a compenfation, equivalent to the lots on the
bills of exchange.-But it was infificd, that, at all events, this obje&ion came too late, as the Defendant had crofs-examined M'Cullough under the Rule; which, having the fame effc& as if he had
been crofs examined in court when fworn in chief, precluded every
fubf-quent objeffion to his competency; and that his depofition
muft indeed be confidered, from the nature of the queftions afked
on the crofs-examination, as tantamount to a denial of intereft on
his voir dire. 4 Burr. 22 5 1.
2d, On the fecond obje&ion the evidence was, that, though
M'Cullough had left Philadelphia, he had not failed from Marcus
Hook, on the Sunday preceding the day of trial (TWednefday) nor was
it ceitain that he had even yet taken his departure from that place.
But it appeared that the Plaintiff, although he had not iffued a Supana himfelf, had'given notice to the Defendant of the intention ot
the witncfs to fail, in order that he might iffue a &ubpena, if he preferred M'Cullough'iviva voce teftimony on the trial, to the depofition under the rule.-The Plaintffcontended, therefore, that there
was no reafon to fuppofe that he wifhed to avoidM'Cullugh'sevidence
delivered and canvaltkd in the moft open manner; that the fpirit of
the rulehad been complied with, by putting it into the power of the
Defendant to fecure tle perfonal attendance of the witnefs; that it
would be abfurd to require a SuJpxna to he iflhed in all cafes; as,
for inflance, where the abfence of the witnefs was a matter ofnotoriety; and that, in the prefent cafe, if a Subpxna had been ferved,
C.ullough muft either have brought himfelf into a contempt of the
Court, by dilobeying its proccfts; or have run the rifque of rui:.,
by delaying his voyage.
i. In fupport of thefirfl objection, the Defendant's counfel contended, that M Cullough, being once interefted in the proceeds of
the prize, it was not enough to fhew that he had been fatisfied, but the
Plaintiffs muff produce a releafe. 2 Atk. 15. It was urged, that, in
order to perfe& every appropriation of joint effe&s, the confent of
both parties is.necelfary; that, in this cafe, it did not appear that the
Plaintiffs ever confented to the tranfa&ion, and, confequently,
.M'Culough fill retained the flare in the effe&s delivered to the Dcfendant, to which he was originally entitled as a captain of the Privateer. If then a recovery takes place in the preterit a&ion, APCuIlough may hereafter fue the Plaintiffs to compel them to pay over his
fltare of the money recovered ; and, therefore, his teflimony is within the principle of 5 Burr. 2727. where one infurer was declared to
.be an incompetent witnefs in an action Qn the policy, becaufe he
could compel the other infurers to contribute. Nor is the obje&ion
too late. Depofitions in chancery are always taken de tene eje.
When. lMCullough was examined, no Court was fitting that could
pronounce upon his competency ; and the adverfe do&brine would
inv6lve the Defendant in this dilemma, that-if he did not examine,
he

SUPREMr, COURT of Pennfyivanla.

S75

Le loft all the benefit of the teftimony, and if he did examine, he ",88
f,orfeited all right of exception to the competency of the witnefs.
There is not, therefore, any fimilitude between a crofs-examination
under fuch circumrfances, and the voir dire, which is a mere preliminary enquiry; whereas, it appears, that the witnefs had undergone a long examination or) the part of the Plaintiffs, before the Defendant propofed a fingle queftion to him.
2. In fupport ofthefecond obje&ion, the Defendan's counfel refered to the rules, fit. itnefSr, No. 48 ; :nd infifted that thefe being
liter,.fcriptartQ govern the practice of the Courts, it was incumbent upon the Plaintiffs to prove the fervice ofa Subpwenn, or, at leaft,
a reafonable endeavour to ferve it. The greater fatisfaffion and juffice to be obt2ined from viva vote teffimony formed the reafon of
the rule ; and this, it was urged, is of fuch weight, that the common law never admits depofitions to be read, but in cafes of abfolute
neceflhy. If then a 8ubpcxna had been taken out a week ago, is
there any ground to afert, that the witnefs, whofe family refides
here, would not haveattended ; or that the failing Qf the veil'el (which
may at this moment be anchored within twenty miles of Philadelphia)
could not be fafely poftponed? Where then is the abfolute neceffity
to which the common law yields the wholefome rigour of its rules?
It is raid, that it would have been ruinous to A4*'Culough if he had
been detained: but this is a matter of which the Plaintifh had no
right to judge; the witnefs, in the firit iniftance, and the Court
eventually, were only competent to determine it; and, after all, the
fervice of a Subpona does not compel an attendance, but only requires that a fufficient caufe fhould be fhewn, why the party did not
attend. Suppofe the depofition had not been taken, and thle Plaintiff's had moved to put off the trial on account of MCullough's abfence, would not the Court have faid. then, that they were not entitled to the delay, as the witnefs was here a few days ago, and they
had not purfue,1 any legal fteps to obtain his evidence? Is there nor
as much propriety in faying fo now ?-for it is idle to rely upon the
notice of MI'Cullough's intention to fail, firkce the Plairxtiffs had the
fame opportunity of detaining thd witnefs which was given to the
D~efendant ; and the latter would have been abfurdly officious indeed,
if he had taken it upon him tofubpxna his adverfavy's witnefs.
MI'KEAN, Chieftzfice.-There are two watys of proving a witnefs
to be.interefted in a caufe :-firft, by examining him on his vir dr4;
or, fecondly, by fhewing his intereft from other evidence, either
parol or written. But both thefe ways cannot be purfued at the
fame time; for the ele&ion of the one conciufively bars any filbfequent recourfe to the other. The Defendant's crofs. examinationunder the rule in this cafe; is not, however, upon the fame footing
with an examination upon the voir dire; and, therefore, we do not
think that he is now precluded from the advantage of any legal exception to the competency of the witnefs.

.MM2

Withi

!276
i788.

CASES ruled and adjudged inthe

With refpea to the admiflion of teftimony, the law has been fo
- ell eftablihed, and is ft)
w
perfectly underftood, that it is needlefs to
enter minutely into the do6trine. The whole, indeed, may be reduced to a hort rule;-if the witnefs fpeaks under an interef2, it is
fatal to his competency ; it he is liable to an injluence, it taints his
credibility. On the prefent occafion, we are of opinion that Captain M'ulloubg/., at the time of taking the depofition, was not an
interefted witnefs ; and, therefore, it there was no other objefion,
we fhould certainly allow the Plaintiffs the benefit of his teftimonv:
For, in the authority cited from .ik. 15 .Lord Hardwcke can only
mean,. that a witnefs, who has been once interefted; hall be prefumed to be fo Rill, unlefs the contrary is proved by a releafe, or
other fatisfalory evidence.
-The Plaintiffi, however, have failed in another refpe&. A Subp0na ought certainly to have been taken out, and, it pollble, ferved
upon the witnefs; for, it was his, and not their, province, to datennine whether he would attend or not. The ru.exeverwas meant,
irideed, -to dire& an ufelefs thing;-fuch as iffuing a Sul'ana fcr a
witnefs a&ually refiding in London, or any other diftant country;
though even this was heretofore required in firia praifice. But, in
the pfefent inflance, Captain _A'CulI
ugh was known to be here a
lewA days ago, his family always refides here, and he may himfell,
probably, be within a very fhort diftance of the city, at this mo•ment. The Plaintiffs, having taken it upon themfelves, not only
to decide for'the witnefs, that he-would not attend, but alfo for the
Court, that they would not infift upon the rule, have a6ed in thir
own wrong; and, upon this objedion, we are of opinion, that the
depofition ought not to be read in evidence.
-

1I. Tli-Defendant's courifel offered his books to prove, that in
his account with the United Slates, at the time of the tranffilion
betweerr him and M'Cullough, there was a confiderable balance in
his favor.
" But it was 6bje&ecl, for the Plaintiffs, .that the books of a party
are only evidence of goods fold and delivered, or work done; and
that, therefore, they weie inadmiflible to the prefent purpofe, which
was to Jhew that the money was advanced upon a contra& different
from. that -whichthe Plaintiffs alledged.
,
To this it was anfwered, that although the bcoks of a party are
only evidence to charge in the cafes mentioned, yet, that they iight
well be received to eftablilh a matter collateral to the caufe."
And by M'KEAN,, hief_7uftict.'Tfhis is a point, that Ido not
.remember to have ever occurred before. The books are not offered
to prove a charge againfl the Plaintiffs, bit only to determine a collateral queftion, whether a third.perfon was the Defendant's debtor,
at a particular pcriod? How can this be accomplified, but by the
evidence of the books,- fairly and regularly kept ? To make it a
-charge, .other vouchers of the entry might" be neceffary ; but tor
t1his

SUIREME COURT of P.minnhlvaia.

'7

this purpofe, if it is of any importance to the caufe, (which I do not
think) I can conceive no other mode of proceeding.
The Defendant, thinking, however, that he could hccompliah
his obje& in another way, did not call for a decifion of the Court;
but wavcd the reading of the bo.oks.
For the Plaintiffs-ngerfland Sergeant.
For the Defendant-:i/ghman, lewis, and'1/'i/on.

Ey.tr

17887.

