C6uRu Of COAMoN PLEAS

of Pbilade!pia.Cuy.

349

SHIP'EN,
-ef .. The AE of Affemhly, exjrefty dire&s
that the prott.s, to be ifhuea, againft a freeholder, Ih'al'l be a Surmmoms. Upon the writ. which has icud''i this cafe, the Detenciant
imuft be arrefted before nis appearance' cr be accepted; ana it
inight hereafter be d6ubted, under' our A6 at Affembly,' iihether
in Iubmitting, even- upon thofe terms, to 'thi Capias, 'he hqs not
tortekd his pniilage to be fued by a Summons.
Therule mhde abfolute:
ABBOT -vrfus

T

PINCHIN.

H ERE was a rule of reference in this caufe, the report to be

.1. made to next trn. After the next term, howdvor, the refe-

Tees, who had never met on the .ufinef's, were changed by confent,
office: Wherrepon it was faid by
and the report tnadereturnabe'into
SHxPPEN,. Preident, that the rut 5 io; reporting to the next term,
was expired by- its own limitation, and the cafe, in that refpect, open to any new agreement of the parties.

O

RAPELiE et a1. ver

s.E

o Y.

N the tiial of this caufQ, it was ruled by SHIp N, Prfident,
thatwhere one man has rieceived money bet6tging to another,
and has retained itwithouttheconfent of the owner, it is to be confidered inthe f.ir- light as money tent, and ought to carry interet.
He faid that this cafe was clearly diflinguifliable-rom that of gods
fold and delivered, where no money adually paffes betwecri the
parties , antd intereft is not due, of v!curfe.
OXLE t

etrfus COWPERTHWAITE,

Sheriff.

HIS was an a&ion againft the Sheriff for taking infufficient
.,fureties
on a replevin bond ; and the queion materially difcuffed on the trial, *as, whether a Sheriff is refponfible that the
fureties thail prove fufficient on the event of the replevin ; or only
t4bat they were of good credit'at the time of their ehtering into the'bond?
- Sergeant foi .he Plaintiff, obferved, that the Defendant in replevin could riot controul the Sheriff in accepting or rejeaing the fure-tiesr, and, therefore, he. ought not, in juftice, to be aiie&ed by
their eventual infblvcncy;. a4id, he infifled, that, in law, the Sheriif
takes them at his p.pril, and is anfwerable for their pro-ving fuficient.'
Gilb. on Dif. 67. 176. 1 Bac. AJ~r. 207.
Levy, for the Defendant, flated the hiftory, nature, and duties
'of the Sherif"'s office from Robinfon's Charles the ffth. "i ; !L p. 213.

1iSS.

