A.
T789.

~

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

But. by M'KEAN, "Ohlf_uflice :-The fubfequent plea and referrence virtually vacate the previous rule for trial or Non pros.
Thecaufe mult, therefore, be continued under a new rule;

CA.LVERT

verf .s

PITr.

T

HIS was a Certiorarito one of the Jufticesvof Chefler county.
On" arguing the cafe, the judgment of tHe*Jufhce was affrmed:.
. And by M'KEAN, Chief uflice, it was
Itated, that conformably to the aof
Albmbly, the Defendant, after judgment was
given againif him by a Juftice, ought to enter into a recognizance infantir, with, a leaft, one good furety. He may aiterwards withdrnw his Lcurity, or appeql to the Common Pleas within the fix
days allowed by the a,%.

•

JoHNsON
T

verfus

HoCKER.

HIS was an adion of debt brought upon a band bearing date
the 24th of April, 1779, and conditioned for the payment of
.5oo. lawful moey of Pennfylvania. To-the Plaintiff's demand
the Defdndant pleadtd.payment, and iffie was ttlcreupon joined.
On the trial, of tbe caufe, Sergeant, in order to prove payment.to
the Treafurer agreeably to.the tender law, offered to read thc following 'certificate to- ihe Jury-.. Received -29 th March, 178c,
"of Mr. George -locker, the fium ot373. b. 6. being two thirds
"ofa bond and- .intereA due (hi Mr.. f. Yahnfon of Germantown,
"which he refufed to receive when . egalv tenderc&to him in ree ce vf
"Balzer
kidecks .and Conrad Reedheyir ; he other one third he
a left in my- hands: to be given tO fi ch poor and diftreffed perfons
1 as I ffnall.think proper obj'&& 'bf charity. Ijaac 8nowden, Trea4' furer.
Lewis, for the Plainiff, objedted to'the evidence, that this was
not a certificate merely official; but containing certain .cytra judiciat fa&s, to which Snowden, like any other wirnel, ought t& be
produced and fworn, The confequence of admitting it, would be
bighty dangerous.
Sergeant anfwered, that'what was furplufage miglit be'rejecqed,
and the paper go to the Juryprnly 7-s proof of the receipt of the.money. If a Notary in Eng h&a introduced foreign matter into the
proteft of a bill of exchange, the Court would firike out fo much as
was -furplufage, but would never lupprefs, the whole. Snowden
could eafily on this occafion be produced; but fimdar cafes may
occur at a diflance, in which it would be impr-,&icable, and great
inconveniency and iniuftice would rifult ftom twe precedent.

