COURT of.OrER and Ta-RIxNERt &C. at Philaddpbia.

RESPUBLICA

39

verfus JOHN ROBERTS.

NDICTMENT for High 2reafon.-A witnefs was called to
prove, that the Defendant had attempted to prevail upon him
to enlift with the Britilh army ; but that he did not fucceed. This
gave rife to a quefifon on thefe words of the aft ot A!lemblyThat if any perforr or perfons knowingly and willingly hall
aid or aftift any enemies at open war with this State &c. -by per"]iadngothers to enlift for that purp6fe &c. he ihall be adjudged
guilty of high treafon " 2 State Laws p. 18. 19.
In fupport of the profecution, it was urged, that the attempt to
prevail, conffituted" the crime; and that it was like the cafe of
a man's fending intelligence to the enemy, which was an a& equally criminal in the fender, whether the intelligence was receivcd, or
not.
For the Defendant, it was argued, that perfridingimpliesfuccefs;
-fuadeo fignifying to advife, and perfuadeo to advife through, or
fuccefsfully: And, therefore, it cannot properly be faid of any perfon, that he was perfuiaded, unlefs he has done fome a& i n confequence of his perfuafion.
BY THE COURT :-There is proof of an overt a6f, that the'prifoner did enlqfl, and evidence is now offered to lhew, that he alfo"
endcavoured to perfuade others to enlift, ip the armies of the enemy.
*But we-are of opinion, that the word peti)adng, ufed by the Legiflature, means tOf.cuzced; and that there muff be an acual enlifiment
ot the perfonperJuaded, in order to bring the Defendant within the.. intention of the claufe. 2 Lord Ray. 889.
The evidence offered, however,: is proper to fhew quo antoo, the.
prifoner himfelfjoi'ned the Britih forces.

The counfel for the Commonwealth then offered to give in evidence, the confeflion of the Defendant,' that he was going to the
Head of Elk, in order to communicate fojne information to Mr. Galloway, who had at that time, gone over to the enemy..
But it was oppofed by the adverfe counfel, who contended, that
a confellion, unlefs in open Court, had never been evidence to convia. That, though inder the I Edward 6. it is faid a man might
beconvi&ed of treafon, by the teftimony of two witneffes, or his voluntary contellion; 2 Hawk. - 5 6. yet, that flatute does not extend
to Pemnfylvania, and by the 7 W 3. C. 3. it is expreffly declared,
that no man canbe indided, arraigndd, or tried, in a cafe of treafon,
but by the tefiimony of two witneifes, or the confellion of the party
made, without violence, in open Court. Fol. 10. 24-1. 2. 3.
But the a& of Aifembly of Penyl3,.vania totally excludes a convidion
by confeflion. See Prin. Pen. Law i49. A confellion uiay, indeed,
be given in evidence to corroborate a trealon that has already been
efablithed by two witnes ; but not to prove the treafon itfelt.

By

I '7 8..

40

1778.

,

CCS.szs rulzd -rd zdjt:dged &c.

By THE COURT :-To prove the Defendant's confeffion by two
witneffes, is certainly.not fufficient, under the flatute, to convi&
him. But a confeflion after the fa&, is proof of thefa&I iyfflf; and
t'.)ugh not competent alone to fupply the want of two witneffes yet it
is good by way cf corroboration : And, thereforei if an overt ae7 has
beer, proved in the county of Cketfer by two witnefles, the evidence
now oftered will be proper. in confirmation of their teflimony.
One-of the zvert as,then, laid in the indi&ment, is aiding and
afliftipg the enemy by joining their armies, and this has been legally
and fatisfa&orily proved. NotwithfIanding, therefore, the other
overt ar7 of giving intelligence to the enemy, is not fiupported by
any evidence, but the Defendant's own confeifion now offered, and
which is in that refpe& infufficient; yet, it may be produced to fubfiantiate another fpecies of treafon; and on that ground we now admit it to be proved.
442.See Fler to, 244, 5 Bacon's Abr, 145. Gregg's
Cafe.- 2 Hazk..
The A4ttorney Generaland Reed, for the Commonwealth-Rofs

and JJilfon, for the Defendant.
The prifoner being convi&ed by the.jury, his counfel' moved the
Court to fet afide the verdid, and grant a new trial, becaufe he was

advifed, -, that the evidence givcn refpeffing his declarations, or
confeflions, was altogether illegal, and ought not to have been allowed."
After argument, by the fame counfel, on both fides, the motion
was reftfed BY THE COURT, who gavejudgment for the Commonwealth ; and the Defendant, a flhort time afterwards, was, -accordingly, executed.

