COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadlphia County.

305

and, by the ffrongefi implication, fhews, that it could not be done 1788at the fuit of a private perfon. A little higher, in the fame page,
a general pofition of Judge Black/lone will be found, which rully
reaches the cafe in queffion. "Neither (fays he) can any m;mber
"of either Houfe be arrefted, or taken into cuitody, norlervedwitb
"any procers of the Courts ofLaw, nor his fervants arrefted &c. without
"a breachofthe privilege of Parliament."
In the cafe before us, the Defendant appears to have been ferved
with a Summons out of this Court, dring the time ofthe atlualfittin'g
of the Co'vention.-Whetherwe take the law to be, as it flood ia
England before, and at the time of palling the a& of Wf. 3. ; or as it
flood after the palling that at down to the ioth of Geo. 3: about fix
years before our revolution, -it is clear that no member of Parliament, other than thofe particularly excepted, could 'be arrefted or
fervedwith any procefs out of the Courts of Law, during the fitting of
Parliament.
We cannot but confider our Members of Affembly, as they have
always confidered themfelves, intitled by law to the fame privileges.
They ought not to be diverted florn the public bufinefs by law fuits,
brought againif them during the fitting of the Houfe; whici', though
not attended with the arreft of their perfons, might yet obligc them
to aftend to thofe law fiits, and to 'bring witneifes from a diflant
county, to a place whither they came, perhaps folely, on account of
that public bufinefs.
The Defendant, therefore, mufc be difcharged from the ation; .

C

KUNCKLE

verfus

WYNICK.

OVENANT.-Theargumentarofe up'-n the following cafe,
feated for the opinion of the Court:-" fjhn Kuckieon the 7 th day
"of Oa. 784, coh'veyed to Nich:lasA'ynick, in fee fimple, a lot ofground
in
Since there Revorts were committed to the Prefr, I have been favored with a

note of anothir cafe in this Court, upon the quetio:i of privilege; and, I hope, I
fhall be excuied for introducing it here.
BARCL-AY et aL.
CALDW LL verft
Foreign Attachmeit.-JIMofyan ohtaned a rule io frhw caufk why thui Attachment hould not be quafhed, on the ground that one of the Delen.dant's, Bdar
,uaily refihin.Z abroad in tho
clay, being an America, conful, and in that charadler al
punlic fervice, was not within the defcription ofperfon-; whofe eff,4e1s were maL~e
liable to a Foreign Attachmcn by the aa of Affelrliy.
The rule was oppofed by /4.Yn,Bradford, and Strgeant, who conrended, that
2s a Confal, Barclay %as not entitled, by the law of nat,ng, to any 'arivilege, or
exemption from legal procefs; that, even if he was privileged on account of his of.
£cial charaiter, he had loft that advantageI by his partnerfihp with the other Deferdant, who was not entitled to i:; and that the ad of laffembly makes no eif-

ference between 'erfons ferving their country abroad, and any other non-refidents.
A!.:er an able argument, the opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr. 2Pre.
. Ssizrr ; agreeably to which
The rule was difcharged.

Q~q

3o6 "
1788.
."

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

"in the Northern Lihertes of the city of Philadphia, "referving a
Rent-charge of 4o dollars per Ann. payable on the 1f day of Oao"her annually. Before any rent was due, Nicholas 07jnick, on thto
I 5 th ot J#ly, v85, affigned and conveyed all his interefl in the
"Premiffes to Henry Meyers. The Plaintiff accepted one Years
"rent of the Affignee. The queftion is, whether he can recover-in
"the prefent affion, which is for one year's rent accruing £ubfe"quent to that paid?"
.Theconveyance from Kunckle to Mynick contained the following
claufe:-1" And the faid Nicholas Wynick for himfelf, his heirs, exe"cutors and adminifirators, doth hereby covenant, promife, and
,agree, to and with the faid John Kunckle, his heirs, and affigns,
" that he, the fbid Nichlas Wynick, his heirs, or alfigns, fhall and
"
tLat
his and their own expence, within one year from the date
cof, ere6t; build, and finifh, on the hereby granted lot, one
good fubfiantial dwelling hQufe, at leaft 16 feet fquareand 2 ftories
"high with a cellar under the fame walled up with brick or flone;
"andihall and will from time to time and at all times hereafter for"ever, well and-truly pay, or caufe to be paid, unto the aid 7ohn
"lKunckle, his heirs, or affigns, the aforefaid yearly rent or fum of
" 40 dollars, &c."
Rawle, for-the Defendant, made two points: ift, Whether the
fentences in the claufe above ftated from the deed, could be fo cou,
pled and interwoven, as to create an exprefs covenant, on the part
of the Grantor, that his aJ/igns fliould pay the rent-charge ? and,
2dly, Whether acceptance ot rent from the Affignee. was not a bar
of the Plaintiff's demand of the rent from the Aflignor?
i. On thefirfl point he endeavoured to conifrue the C-senant, fo
as to extend it to the AJ]igns of Wynick, only in the cafe of building
the dwelling-houfe, and not in .he cafe of paying the rent. But he
did not. feem to -expe& much fuccefs from this difcrimination.
2. On the fecond point, he argued, that this was a rent iffumg out
of the land, which the Plaintiffhad ele&ed to purfue by his acceptance of rent from the Affignee; and that this acceptance was a bar
to his demand againfi the Defendant. Cro. 7. 522. 3 Rep. 22. 2 Bujlr.
152. He admitted, that 3 Lev. 233. 5aund. 24o. S. C.appeared to be
firong againfi him ; but, contended, that, in truth, they ought not
to have any weight with the Court, fince the prefent queftion was
not immediately in agitation in thofe cafes, arid, confequently, what
has not been exprefsly adjudged, cannot be fet up as an authority.
As rBac. Abr. 536. is founded on 3 Lez. 233. it muft neceffarily
WV-ith refpe& to Keb. 640, he prefollow the fate of its principal.
fumed that the Reporter had been guilty of fome ,miftake, and qucflioned whether his do6trine had been received even in England.
But he urged that whatevcr might be the prafice there, the laws
and circumftances of Pennfylvania had rendered a different one neceffar . here; for the a6ts of Affembly altering the common law, carried with them many confequgnces, which were not exprefsly provided for iithe aas themfelves; as in the cafe Q1real Slates made
"ubjea

COURT of CoMMoN PLEAS

of Philadelpha County

7

fubje& to-executions for debt, and in the care of a Dtvaflav;t committed by an Adminiftrator. He infifled that the policy of tne laws
of this State was to facilitate the transfer of lands, in conlradi&ion
to the genius of the common law; that, therefore, it might be incumbent upon the Englih Courts to enforce with the greateft ftri&nefs the exprefs covenants in a conveyance; but that c r Courts
ought rather to coniftrue them liberally, fo as to prevent uine ifary
enibarrafsments in the change of property. If, then, the Defendant
is liable for the laft year's rent, he mu1 be liable, by the fame rule,
for the rent of 40 years flanding; and thus, as the Grantor of,
rent-charge can viever be exonerated, or even fafe in the difpofal of
the eftat- fromn which it ifflues, the reftraints on fales and transferrs
will become daily more nunocrous, and more injurious to the public,
welfare.
Milegan, for the PlaintifF, obferved, that as the firfl point was
matter of mere conftru&ion, he fhould leave it implicitly to the
Court.
With refpe& to the fecond point, he contended, that the difficulty
had arifen from not diftinguifhing properly betwden aaions of. debt
and a2tions of covenant: For, he granted, that an a&ion- of debt
would not lie in this cafe; as it requires privity ot effate to fupport
it ; but that the a6lion of covenant required only privi ty ot contra&,
and, therefore, would well lie againift the Grantor of the rentcharge, after his alfignment. In fupport of this dillin6lion he cited
z Roll. lhr. 522. Cro. .580. I Saund. 21.0. 2 Keb. 640- 1 Bac,
4hr. 536. tit.
Covenant. Cro. .7.
30. Sid. 402.
SHiPPHY, Preftdent.-The queflionjn this cafe is, whether on.a
Ground Rent Deed, wherein there is an exprefs covefnant on the
part of the Leffee for payment of th -ent- and he affigns over the
premifles. and the Lelfor accepts rent t.-'- .te Affignee, an a&ioi
of covenant will lie for the LefFor agaiijit the Leffee for the fubfequent rent.
The diftin6lion between aclions of debt and a&ions of Cenant
inihis care, is too well eftablifhed to be now unfettled. The a6'tion
of debt lies upon the privity of EjLate. which is utterly extinguifhed
between the Leffor and Leflee by the Leffor's acceptance of rent
from the Affignee. The a&ion of covenant, when founded upon
an exprefs covenant, lies not upon the privity of Ejflate, but privity
of contra&, which cannot by the aflignment of the premifes, or by
any a,&of the Leffee, or by acceptpnz-e of the rent, be transferred
from him. The covenant, however, muff he an exprefs covenant,
not an implied one, or a covenant arifing by operation of law, as by
the words "yielding and paying" &c. in the deed.
The cafes ;n the books upon this point are generally of a6lions of'
covenant for not makin,g repairs; and a diftin6ton has been attenpted to be made between thofe anl a6lions for .the Rent: ifi the
latter cafe it is faid, that the land being the tund out of which the
rent is to iffue, and tha! being transferred, the Leff.r's acceotance of
Q~q z
rent

1788

308
r788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

rent from the Affignee will take away all remedy againl the Leffce
hitnfelf. I have looked. for this diftindhon in the books, but cannot
find it in any cafe where there was an exprefs covenant for the pay.ment of the rent. The cafes found the law upon the perfonality of
the contrad; which extends equally to the payment of the rent, as
to the making repairs; and, though the authorities-are not fo numerous in the one cafe as the other, yet they are as expiefs. 2 Keb. 64o,
and 2BIarnard.372, are full to the point. Ifthefe- books are thought
to be of doubtiil authority, r Roll..Ab. 522. cites two cafes, where
the breach of covenant was for nonpayment oftherent. In i Sid 402.
where the Court draws the diftin&io-l between debt and covenant,
they exprefsly mention the adion to be for the rent ; and the cafe
in 3 Lev. 283. is likewife covenant for non payment of the rent.
As to the argument ab inconvenienti, I cannot fee how it operates
more in this coun try than in England. It Leffees mean not to be
perfoally bound atter aflignment, they fhould take care what covenants they enter into. If they will, in exprefs words, covenant
for the payment of the rent, they mull be bound by it.

Judgment for the PlaintifFi
WELLS et al.

Appellants, verfiss Fox.

I .3"
was an appeal from the determination of the Regulaterg
0,Prty Walls &c.- .owetd moved that a Venire flould ifFue
agreeably to the third fettion of the ad pafed the 15th ofApril 7 82,
3 Stale Laws 75"allowi:g the appeal to the .next(ourt of Common ileas,
and ena6ting, th,t thereupon " the faid qourt (upon fecurity being
,'entered &c.) fhall dircd&a Penireto the Sheriff &c."
S&egeanf thought that the queftion ought to be tried upona feigned.
.ue, or tLnder an e e.ment ; to either of which he -tould agree.

T

But, by SFMIPEN, Pry.dent..-A feigned ifrue can only determi"
yhether th6 kegulators have oone right or not; it cannot determine
the title, and .nially fettle the matter. For this re~fon we think it
proper to try the quellion b.y ejemen.
Lewis and PJ'ilks faid, the praffice in the Supreme Cojrt h~d
bcen conformably to the,opinion of the Prd/dent here.

COOPER
A

re fis

COATS.

EOND and Warrant to confefs Judgment riad been executed

by the Defendant for , 6 oo. Befbre the Judgment was entered ivp, he had paid fo much of the money as reduced the futit
r;:aiy due to lefs than .io: And the queftion flated for the opixion,ol the Caurt, was, whether the Flaintiff (hould bt allowed colts ?

Jfa~owl

