'Mars rnled.andadjudged.ina the

,x6

3-767Fog the Plaintiffs it was anfwered, that in 7, Peer: V'2,arni 75¢
Lyw.J and many other cafes, it was fettlW, that all Aas of Parliament
made before the Sattlement of the Col6ny extend, unlefs local in
their Nature; that under this rule the Statute of Wills, Statute of
'ufes, anRt tnny other Statutes, were always held to extend ; and that
the reafon of this Aa extended as well as any other. That as to
this Cafe not* being, within the A6, the prefumption fpoken of
was not jufified by the A& itfelf, which extended to every Cafe2d..Though the Witneffes fwear only to-forty-four Years poffeflion,
yet after fiich a length of.time it fhould be prefumed the poiflion
bad been from the Date Qf the Deed to -Cbamkers, which was in
d. The Rights of Frnes Cvrt are not fared in this A&
6.
except fuch Femes Cvert as were in being at the time of making
the Ad) and.Poffellon w:as out of Tucker's Wife from the-time of
Cham~er..-As to the laft Point it was faid,.
her Hufband's Deed toi
that it waspicked up at the Par, and not objeded to at the Time of
tenderihg" th Deed;i that it did not flirily go to the title, but was
the Jury
Lives, which
for their
of twoof, old
only
the Damages.
by leffening
they pleafed,
if Women
take notice
,nighta claim
TlE COURT were unanimous and clear in their Opinion, tht the
to this Province, and gave it in charge to
Ad of 32 -7.8 did extend
the.eury accordingly. *
The Verdi& of=the ury was on1ormable- to this opinion, :by their
made an a~owance for the Lives
the Plaintiffs,
fotWomen
finding
Damages.
in thI having
of the two

April Term, 1768.
WILIAM

o v

R

P.

A

t J
sLR
Chieft

ljuftdci
° ON LA WR ENC,
J- i
t HOMAS •.WJI.
S. .LING; ,r

gcHz
and R cHAxn

'ititwas

icr~'thea~reF~

-verfr,o

AN ACcount of Sales of'an Adventure lhipt to 2Vtw-Y r4, fal to
ona lo'sbeen
to pro've
evidence
in hian
by the.Fador,
ligned
.lbe
to have.felf ough
Fador
tththeoffered
Objede,
the Goods.
brought to give evidence, vimra 't, or at leaft the account 1houl~I
him, and certified under the City Seal of-.Neu.have been provedto by
agreeably, the diredions of the ad ofrpaiame't with.regard
Ark,
That this
England.-Anfwered,
to the proving; Colony debts infuch
I
rdiant uf~a.
Evidence as
being a Metcantile Tranfadion,
ly admit as proofs of a foreign Trant&ion Ihixild be raevid here,

SPt!1AL COURiT Qf
9

Pennfyhaariti.

.17

B fCH, Coux-r.-The firift Rules of Law with regard to Evi.- 176a
"ence opght not t4 be extended to Mercantile Tranfa&ions. In thi
7
Pare, on proying the rand Writing of the Ea6or, let the Account of.
3ales be given in Evidence; which was accordingly done.

jOHN S"ev

verfus: HAWK-INS and-others.

D EBT fur Obligation.-On the plea of payment Defendants of•-I.Jfered to give no Confideration in Evidence, Obje&ed, that
the Confideration of a Bond is not enquirable into) the palling the
Boid being a gift in Law df the money.-To this it was anfwere4d
and fo ruled By THE&CoUT, that there being no Court of Chaiicery
in this Pro-.hcej th~re is a necellity, in order to prevent a failure of
Juftice, to lt the Defendants in under the plea of payment to prcve
miftake or want of confideration: And this the Chief Juilic- faid he
*hd known to be the conffant pra&ice of the Couits of Juiic2 in this
Province for thirty nine Years paft.
For the Plaintiff, the following cafus were cited: PIht'. 308. 5.
Gilb. Rep. i54. Hard. 200. 3 -P. WPil. 222-.

T'7e Lefee of LLOYD verfus TAYLOR.

E

JECTMENT -for Ground in the City of Philadlphia. Merq.
.Vaflers being feized in fee married Peter Llyd. PeterLloyd
and Mercy his Wife convey to Raph Ajhelon in 1727. Ralph .fhet!n reconveys to Peter Lloyd he Land in queflion. Afterwards, iW
1738, on a Judgment againi Peter Lloyd, the Land in quelion was
taken in Execution and fold by the Sherihf to the Defendant tbt
r 3 oo.-Plaintiff claims as H.ir at Law to Mercy Lloyd, infifti*
that his. Mother being a Peme Currrt could not legally convey her
eltate without an examinatiori by 'Writ. And though in the cafe of
Davey vetfus "urnrtried iri
this Court gepfember x.7.64, * it waA
ruled that an acknowledgement of the Deed on a private examina.
tion before a Jpffice ot peace, was rufficient ufider a long Ufage tO
fan&ify her Dted, thotgh notfiiiftly agreeable to La r.; yet here
ihere was not even that acknovvledgment, or private examination.
But it appearing in Evid,rice, that it had been the conitant Ufage
of the Province Formerly foi Pe.nis:GC'ert to convey their Eilates irn
this manner, without an acknowledgment or fep1rate examination;
And thai there were a great number Of iaIiuble Ellates held und,,r
-fuch Titles .which it would be dangerous to impeach at this time of
day, THE COUNT gave a Charge to the Jury in tavour of.the D-:
rendants, founded on the Magim CG',mnis Errorfacit "us. Au4.
ihe Jury accordingly found for the Defendant.
e

.. "

UI.

