222

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in fhe

1787.
EASTWICK

verfus HUGG,.

'TFHIS was an adion for money had and received &c. TheDefen.. dant, being Sheriff of Gloucefer county in New Yerfey, received
a fum of money for the Plaintiff, which he lent, with her confent,
upon a mortgage of lands in that Rate. The mortgagor, from time
to time, paid the interefi to Huvg, and, finally, in the year 1778,
paid the whole principal and intercit to him in d.preci::ted paper money.. It did hot appear that Hugg had any exprefs authority from
the Plaintiff to receive this payment of the.principal from the mortgagor, and fhe afterwards retufed to accept the continental money,
intilting that fhe was entitled to recover the lull fum in fpecie; for
which, accordingly, the prefent a&ion was brought. Upon the trial of the caufe, the Court, in their charge, left it to the Jury, to
give fuch d'amages as they thought juft ; whereupon a verdi& was
returned for the Plaintiff, for the full amountreceived by the Defendant (C. 27. io. ) in hard money; and Lewis, upon the ground of

mifdirec-ion moved, for a new trial.
In fupport of this motion, two points were made for the Defendant :- lf That in an afion for money had and received, the
Plaintiff waves all tort, admits the right to receive, and, threfore,
can recover no more than has adually come to the Defendant's
hands. 2 Burr. ioo8. Cosvp. 416. 419. IBid. x99. Bull. N. P.

128. 2dly That the Defendant, in this-cafe, held the money as
truftcee for the Plaintiff, and ought, therefore, to be difcharged irom
zny payment, except in the identical paper money which he had received. 2 Pinn. Laws. 496.
Sergeant, for the Plaintiff, urged that the Court would not grant
a new trial where the objec was fo inconfiderable ; nor merely f9r
a mif ,ke in the form of the aaion, if the juftice of the caufe was
with the Plaintiff. 2 Burr. 936. Ccwp. 6 of. 2 Burr. 604. 5.
And, he infifted, that the Jury had a right to eftimate the damages.
io. Md.. i9 . i Ld. Rayrn. i6oo.
T AE PRESIDENT, after confideration, Rated the circumftances
of the cafe, and dtlivered the opinion of the Court, in the following
manner:
SHirp*iE,
Prefident.-The fats were fhortly thefe:The Defendant, then Sheriff of Glouce/Ier countA in ew.erfey,
having in his handsa fum of money belonging to the Plaintiff, who
refided in the city of Philad!pbia, in the year 1772, with the confent
of the Plaintiff, lent it to one of his neighbours in 2Aew-yerfey at 1even
per cent. intereft. A bond and mortgage was taken for it in the name
of the Plaintiff, which were left in the Defendants hands for the
purpofe of receiving the money when it flould become due, for the
ufe

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of PhiladelphiaCounty.

223

ufe of the Plaintiff. The obligor, whofe name was 1Jriite, paid 1787intereft at different timek to the Defendant, who paid it over to the "Y..J
Plaintiff. In the month of November, 1778, the Defendant received the whole principal and intereft then due in Continental Money,
and delivered up the bond and mortgage to the debtor.-It appeared
by the teftimbny of Wbite that when he paid the Money to 1-Iugg he
did not mean to make a legal tender of it, although he brought a
wittnefs to be prefent at the payment, which was done, as he faid,
only becaufe he himfeIf did not well underfiand the Engl;.fh language. ' Hugg not having paid the money to the Plaintiff, flhe brings
'this a&ion againfi him for money bad and received to her ufe.
On the part of the PlaintiTr it was contended on the trial, that the
Defendant not having been compelled to receive the ConrinentalMoney, received it in his own wrong, and ought to anfiver the full fum
in hardMoney to the Plaintiff.
On the part of the Defendant, it was urged, that the Defendant
being authorized to receive the money, had received it properly, in
the then current money, made a legal tender by law, and could be
anfwerable for no more than he had a&ually received.
The court left it to the jury to confider the juftice and equity of
the cafe, but hinted their opinion, that, confidering the circumAfances ofthe times, it might be inoft reafonable and juft to fettle the
At the lame time telfum according to the fcale of depreciation.
ling them that this a&ion was in the nature of a bill in. equity, and]
thatthey might give fuch a fum in damages as they thought juit.
The jury found a-verdi& for the Plaintiff for the fum received in
hard money. A motion was then made for a new trial on the
of ground mifdirecion.
'Having had time to deliberate and confider the law arifing on this
cafe, we are of opinion, that the court ought not to have left it to
the jury to give in damages more than was aclually received.
The a&ion of ajumpfu' for money had and received, has been of
late confidered to be of fo liberal a nature, that it is not to be wonIt is a
dered at, that on a fudden its extent fhould. be miftaken.
very beneficial affion, not only for the Plaintiff, but the Defendant;
yet, it has its limits. It is beneficial to the Plaintiff, becaufe, when
he has another remedy as well as this, hie may ele& this, and is
under no neceflity'to flate the fpecial circumftances of his cafe,. but
may,make it out by evidence on the trial. For the Defendantlit is
beneficial, becaufe,"as 'Lord .Mahsfield fays, he can he liabk for ne
further thanfor the money he has received, and agai oft that may go into
It is in faI an
every-equitable defende upon the general iffue.
afibn to oblige the 'Defetnnt to refund what he has received; and
the word re und ex vi termini,. precludes the idea of his being anfwerable fbr more than he has a6lually received. Intereff, indeed,
In this
may be added as dmages for the detention, but no more.
kind of aaion the Plaintiff wives all torts and (pecial damages;
and

224:

CAsss ruled and adjudged in -the

1787 •.' and goes only for the money received; and fo far confirms the De~ fendant's a&, as that he cannot gain fay his rig to redeive it.
As to the .7u ice of the verdi&, it is not fe very apparent as to
make us anxious to fupport it, againil the rules of law. Col. Hugg
was the Plaintiff's agent in this matter, without any reward. He
was an Officer in the americai army, and probably thought the fupport of the war depended on the fupport of the credit ot the continental money; it was the only money then in circulation; and though
it had depreciated five or fix for one, he might reafonably think it
would not only be injurious to his own reputation, but to the common caufe, to refufc it. All thefe circumftances mull have been
known to the Plaintiff, and yet the tuffers the bond and mortgage to
remain in his hands. She might have taken the fecurities from him,
and abided by the confequences of refuing it her'elt.
The debtor,
i/bite, it is true, fwore he did hot mean to force the money upon
Hugkr; but it is as true, that when he brought the continental moIney to difcharge the debt. he brought a J'finefs with him, which he
had not done before when he paid the intereff in h ,rd money. This
circumftauc might reafonably induce a belief in Hugg that lie meant
to make a legal tender of the money; and AWhite, nntwithftanding
what he fays, might poffibly have availed himfelf of it as a legal
tender, in cafe Hugg had refifed the money.
For thefe reafons, I fay, tlse juftice of the verdi& may be well
queffioned; yet if the cafe'had -been before the jury in fuch a way as
that they could legally have given damages according to their difcretion, perhaps, we fhould not have thought it proper to fet afide
th-eirverdi&, on account of their having, in a doubtful cafe, exercifed their judgment, and drawn different conclufions from the
fa&s. However as the law is clear, that Mu this kind of aftion,
the Defendant is liable lor no more than he has received, we muft
order a new trial. '
KuEN

On the recotid tial of this caufr, the 14th of May r788, Zvy called the Defendant as a witnefs, to prove that the continental bills of credit, which he prodated in court, were the identical bills, be received from W ite, in latisfadtiorl of
the mortgage. But Sergeant obje&ed, that Hugg was not an agent within the
meaning of the A& of Ailembly, but merely a perfon who had officioufly received
the monies of another.
Tax Co ust reje&ed the witnefs. And Snieppise, Preldent, obfervod, u..
- ugg appeared to have been an agent to receive the intarffl ; but, it was eviden,
t

that he doubted in his own mind, whether his authority extended any farther; for,

it is in proof, that wheakhe was tendered the principal, he referred the mortgagor
to the Plaintiff herfeXf, *hb refided in Peanfylvania. - There muft be roine fatifaiftory proof of his being a6taally" an age t, before the Court can allow a party to
be fvorn, under the A& of Affembly, to indenutfy the money in difpute.
By the verdi& of the fecond Jury, it appears, that they reduced the money according to the feale of depreciation, a'nd added the inteteft°

