COURT

of

COMMON PLEAS

of Phllade hia CoUnty.

249.

Verdi& for the Plaintiff; owing, I believe, to fome flight teftirnony, thdt feemed to repel the ida of the Defendant's having repaid the money.
When Howdll offered himfelf aF a witnefs, Levy obeed that he
was interefted, inafmuch as his judgment fee depended on hiv fuccefs in the caufe. But the objecion was over-ruled by the cuurt

J ACKSON ct al. Exors. verfus

VANHORN.

TUDGMENT had been entered by non fum Infirmatus in this
cauti, as the Defendant did not appear on the dam oft a].
'it
&Yrgeantnow moved to opl:n thejudgment, upon an affidavit that the
Defindant had notice of the trial for the ith, infteiid of the i 3 th,
and that there wi)s ajuft and confcionable defence.
Ltwis, for the Piaintiff faid. that he did not mean to conteft the
matter, but he wifhed it to be fettled, whetherthe mift ke o; aa
Attorney, was, in fuch cafes, fufficient to fet afide ajuigment.
BY THE COURT. On a miftake of this kind, e;idently appear.
ig, we cannot relufe the motion.

J

PENMAN
A

et al. verfus WA'YNE.

Rule had been obtained to fhew caufe why the Capias, which"
iffued in this cafe, hould not be qua flied, the DJendant
being a freeholder in the county of Chefler. It appeared, that, witir
the Pracipefor the writ, an affirmation .of one Rumford Davis, wa§
filed in the Prothonotary'sOffice, fetting forth, that " the Defen" dan had not been Reident in this"State for two years before the
date of the writ;" and, it was contended, that this was fufficient,
tinder the A& of Affembly, to repel the Defendant's claim of privilege. x St. Laws 139.
The queftion, therefore, was, whether the Court could, notwithftanding the affirmition filed before the writ iffued, enquire into the
matter of rtidence; in order to determine, on all the circumftances
of the cafe, whether the Defendant was within The exceptions of the
a&? It was twice argued, on the 21ft and 2 3 d of May, by Sergeant
for the Plaintiff, and Lewis for the Defendant; and the fubftance of
both arguments was as follows.
For the Plaintiff.-'Ihe A& of A:Tembly refis the proof exclufively on the Affidavit of the party, or fome perfon for him ; requiring only that he fhould make the fa&, whi-zh defeats a freeholder's
ivilege from arreft, appear to the Jufice who grants the writ.
Nor will the fe&ion admit of the diylifion for which the adverft
counfel contend ; becaufe, though there is a claufe providing thaL
things fhall not be proved by affidavit, which, in their nature
eftablifh a higher degree of proof; as judgments, mortgages &c. y(eje
eve

7

