CoURT of CoMMoN PLEAS of PhiladihiaCounty. 225
3E78,.

KuH-N

T

7erfus

PRIMER.

HE PlaintifF had become bound to one 8p/ect in the payment
of a certain fum of mohey ; and, after the bond was due, he

obtained a difcharge under the infolvent laws. Subfequent to his
difcharge, the Defendant bought fundry goods of him,. and when
the price was demanded, tendered Spleit's bond in payment, an affignment of which he-had purchafed for that pwrpofe. The Plain'tiff, refufing to accept it, brought this affion, and on the trial, the
Defendant offered to give the bond in evidence, by way of Sett off;
in eonfquence of wJich the ballance would have been turned in his
favour.
Sergeant, for the' Plaintiff, oppofed the admiffion of the bond in
evidence, and cited Bull. Z. N. P. i79.
Levy contended that the evidence ought to be allowed, and referred to the fame book page i7o.
BY THE COURT. -The hardfhip that muff attend the admifflon
of the bond, "would inreafon be alone fufficient to determine us to
reje& it. An infolvent debtor could never get forward in the w,rld,
if his old bonds, and other negotiable papers, were thus capable of
being put in force againft him. A debt of L. 50 might be bought
for 50. and the debtor, after his difcharge, be liable, by fuch negotiations, to be defeated in every a~tion, and baffled in every contra&.
But the law is clear, that the affignment being after the Infoivency,
th; Defendant can b'e in no better condition than the aflignor, who.
could only come in for a dividend.*.
The evidence was overruled, and Levy tendered a bill of ex-A
ceptions. t

HOCKER verfus STRICKER,.

Under Sheriff.

TT

was ruled in this cafe, that before ;he godos are removed,-ther
Sheri•.f6IghfS
allow a reafonae'time, for the Dcfendait in
RiP arz6finct fecurity on i claim of property ; which, in the practide of Pennfylvania, fuppl ies the place ot a writ doproprietateprobanda: And SHIPPEN, Prdident, faid, that it the Jury were of opinion that a reafonable time had been refufed, the Defendant, Stricker,
could not, int an a&ion of trefpafs, juflify under the writ of Replevzin.

I

F f

BUSBY

* See S. Sgrs, r534.
+ The cafe is now depending on a writ of error in the Sumros Cou.S.
Sccan&. Isb. •

