CAsPs ruled and adjudged in the

1 15+
17 95 .

another place to refide armng us, introduces his family here, tak s
houfe, engages in trade, contracs debts, and, after fome time,
runs away with defign to defraud his creditors, he ought furely to
be ronfideied fuch an inhabitant as not to be an obje& of the foreign attachment, but of the.domeftic one, and as a.perfon whofo
effe~s fhould be feized for the benefit. cf ll his creditr's, and nt
of the firft creditor who fhall tuke out a foreign attachment, otherwife there would be few obje&s for this. equitable law to operate
upon.
Such has been the-uniform conftrufion of the law of attachments in Pennfylvania from the year 1724, to the paffing of the a&
of the 24 Geo. 3. c. 5, which laft a&.gives a~legiflative fandion to
the preceeding prafice. "
declaring our unanimous opi.We have, therefore, nohefitation in.
nion, that the foreign attachments againfi Lazarus Barnet be diffolved.
Theforeign attachments diffolved.

Sa

CASE

verfus

TN this-cife it was ruled

HuFTY.

by'THE COURT, that,-to entitle the

.1 plaintiff to judgment by default, the fervice of a' limm6ns an
the Perfon of the defendant, as well as if left at his houfe, muft be
.4endays before the return.

VIERNE

A

verfus

M'C'ARTY,

furviviing Partner.

FTER argument, THE FRES'DENT delivered the opinion of

the Court in this caufe.
point to-be confdered inthis cafe,
SHip:i N Prfiden:-Thefirft
is, whether the*Court think themfelves authorized to enquire into
the caufe of adion in the cafe of attachments, as they do in cafes of
Capias, whare the defendant's perfon is taken into cufiody? The
reafon of enquiring into the caufe of a&ion on writs iffued againft
the perfon, is to prevent a vexatious plaintiff from imprifoning the
body of the defendant-without caufe: In the cafoofattachments, though
-the reafon may not perhasps be fo forcible, as the perfonal liberty
of -the defendant is more precious than his property, yet the abufo
of the procels of law may be as great, and the neceflity of providing
againft a wanton and groL-Adlefs -feizure of the defendants effels,
as obvious. In the cafe of fpecfic articlesattached, a firanger's lhip,
or other effe&s, may be taken out of his hands, and detained for
fuch v length of time as to ruin his voyage, and embarrafs his affairs beyond redrefs. So, in the cafe of debts attached, his property
may be locked up, his remittances prevented, and the .injury nearly
as great as in the other cafe. The bail marked by an at.l'rnv- or

