420

1789.
'

CASMS ruled and adjudged in tho

Whether this agreement was made in perfon, or by a Brokea
mutually employed, it is equally binding on the parties ; and,
under the agreement, all the underwriters were fully entitled to
interfere upon the former trial, and to crofs-examine the witneffes
then produced. Although, therefore, we fhould not have allowed
the fpecial verdi& to be read without lull proof of the agreement;
yet, on receiving that fatisfa&ion, we think it would be unfair to
fupprefs it ; and, for the future, we defire, that all fuch agreemients may be entered on the records o; the Court.
The admilion of this evidence, however, cannot be conclufive;
as-it is manifeft, that teftimony has been given on the prefent occalion, different from what was given on the former; and, confcquentlyj a very diffierent verdi& may with great juftize and propriety take place.
-A~MILTON

T

Exor. verfus CALLlNfERx'S Exors.

HIS a&ion being referred by confent, the following report
was made :--" The Referrees upon full conlideration of all
"' the circumtances, are doubtful as to the law upon one point,
"and hav.,e agreed to make their award fpecial, fubje& to the opi" nion of the Court.
"The cafe fubmitted to them appeared to be as follows :-O.n
'' the i6th of -March, 1773, Robert Calle.7der was indebted to ames
Hamilton in the fim ot'£2120. flerling, for which he gave to
the faid James Hamilton, a bond and warrant of attorney, and a
mortgage upon an eftate in the county of Cumbrlan4. It ap" peared that intereff was paid thereon to M41arch 1776, and that
receipts for fuch payments -ar indorfed on the mortgage.
Robert Callenderdied, and, fometimu after, his executors fold
.pirt ol the mortgaged premiilis to Mark Bird, who undertook to
"pay off the principal furm, together with the intereft that Ihould
'become due after ihe d te of his purchafe.
" It is agreed that James Hamniton remitted one year's intereft'
"'to the executors of Gallender; and that fark Bird gave his bond
"bearing date the 3 d of A'Iay, 1783, to 7arots Hamilton for £651.
,fterling, being the whole of the intereft then due on the mortNo difcharg;
exclu live of the 'year's intereft remitted.
" gage,
wag given upon the iortgage either for the year's intereft refImitted, or for the amount of the'bond: nor does it appear, that
"cthe executors of Callender had any notice of the bond, or that
"they had been applied to for the payment of any iatereff after the
"fale to Bird.
"Bird has never paid any part of the principal, or intereft;
"( and, in the end of the year 17 8 41, a $cre Facias iffued on the
"mortgage ; but the fale was poftponed from time to time ; and,
"in the meantime,.P;rd became a bankrupt. On the r 9 th of lay,
,1787, however, the eflate held by Bird was fold. under the &xire

SU-PAEM& CoURT of Pnfyhranik.

421

4"Faciasfor £5,5oo: and another part of Callender's eflate waa
o fold under the fame execution for about £Iooo:
" The point which the Referrees wifh to fubmbit to the opinion
" of the Court is :" Whether 7ames Hamilton by taking the bond from Bird,under
4' the circumftances itated, h is exonerated the executors of Callen" der from the payment of 651.'lterling, the fum for which the
4' faid bond was given i Or,
" Whether the mortgaged premifres are bound to the executors
"of Hamilton, notwithitanding the faid bond
"It the Court fhall be of opinion that the eftate of Ca/lender
' is exonerated from fo much of the intereft as the bond of Bird
" was given for, then we find, that there was due to the executors
4of Hamilton on the 19 th of May. laft (when the premiies were
"fold) for principal ann interefl: upon the mortgage, £4988. -8. 2.
"curr:-nt money of Pennfyivania. But, neverthelcf,; if the Court
Ihould fo dctermine, the Reierrees award, that the whole of the
" money arifing from the fale of that part of the .mortgaged pre"milfes belonging to Bird, and which is flated to-have fold for
"£5,500, thould be applied, in the firft place, to the payment of
the aforefaid film of £.4988. 18. 2. and the refidue to fo much
, of Bird's bond to Hamilton as it will extend to.
But, if thd Court hall be of opidion, that the executors of
B
C'alender are not exonerated from the payment of fo much of
.' the intereft as the bond aforefaid fpecifies, then we award, that
"there wai due from the Dofendants to the Plaintiff on the i 9 th
"day of 2i'fay lift,, the fum ofZ6264. x8. 7. current money.afdre.

faid."-'
Whether the bond given by ,M4drkBird to the Plaintiff's Teflator operated as ah extinguilhment of fo much of the sihoney due
upon Callender'smortgage, was the queltion; And it was argued in
itly'Term. 1788, by Lwis and JIFi1ocs, forthe Plaintiff; and by
i; ;/fqn and Bradford, for the Defendant,
R;r the Plaintif,it was contended, that the bond in queflioa
was takan merely as a. collateral fecurity, in order to entitle Hamhilton to intereft upon the amount. The Report (though it is futficient to give judgment upon) does not fay that it was received or
given in fatisfitetiun ; it is, therefore, fo be prefumed, that no
evidence of that kind was fubmtted to the Referrers, and -the
Court muit determine the law upon the fa&s contained in the
Report.
But, even if the Repqr't were amended, and it were exprefsly
fet forth, that the bond was given and received ih fatisfa6tion, it
would not be an extinguithmcnt of the preceding demand, founded on the mortgage. the rle is clear, that a fubfequent fecurity
of e.qual dignity is not an extinguifhment, fo as to anfiihiiate the
party's remedy upon his original .contrat; for that purprofe the
fecurity mufl be of a higher nature. Nor will the mere improvement of the fecuri ty, by adding another fucety, amoun; to an extinguifhment.

T789

4:22

2739.

CAsits ruled and adjudged in the

tinguiflment. Cro.

7. 579.

"y86.'See -2 Bac. .dtr.452..

.

Ho. 68. 69. 'Moor g7 2. Cro. C. 8 .

Whether, indeed,

by accord or'nor,

one bond is not an extinguifhment of another; 3 i~v. 55. Brown.
47.7.- Nay, the party's own agreemeiit to accept is not fufficient;
for, it muft appear to he a reafonable fatisfa&ion. i Stra. 426. 7.
* The bond given-by Birdwas certainly not of a higher nature
than the previous fecurity; it was, in fa&, inferior; for, a mortgage is a fecurity on real eftate, a bond is only perfonal ; and, in.
the cafe of a bankruptcy, though neither bonds, or judgments,
ifand againif the general creditors, yet mortgages do.
For the Defendants, it was urged, thAt the legal do&rine of collateral extinguihments does not apply; for, fome cafes go firther
than thofe produced, and Mhew that ari eftate worth a million,
would not difcharge a bond conditioned for tie payment of f o.
Yet, at common law, the do&fine appears to differ from wfiat the
adverfe counfel wifh to efablifh; Co. Litt. 2r2. b. though, it muft
be admitted that many fubfequent decifions bave greatly deviated
from the principle lai&down by Lord Coke, that the party's acceptance of any thing, provided it be not of lefs iralue thap 'the
original contia&, in fatisfadfion, is fufficient. But, notwithftanding the admiffion that the authorities feem now to extend fo far,
that a bond from the fame party encreafing the fum, or, even
where another furety is added, will. not be a. difcharge of a prior
obligation ; yet none of them'are fo extravagant as to affert, that it
is no difcharge where the advantage of converting'intereft into-princO
ial has been obtained; which is in itfelf'a. reafonable fatisfa6tion
to ground the extinguifhment ; and, independent of the dafes, the.
broad principle of equity declares; that, when a party is bettered
by his bgrgain; he fhall be bound by it.
But, i. appears frem.the report of the Referrees,. that there was
an abfolut&"giving and taking of, the bond ; and,"as' the payment
inuff be accordingto the- ill of tie Defendant, Cro. E 68. ifBird
gave the bond in quellion in payment, we thew that it was accepted, and it is no matter whether that acceptance was in fatisfa&ion,
.br not, fince the.bbnd muft be received to the intent With which it
was given. i Ld. Rayi. 6o. 6r.
The cafe, however, does pot, after all, depend upon the dbctrine of extinguiflimeit, but upon the a& for defalciten; by virtue of which the acceptance of the bond in queflion may be given
in. evidence by way of fet-off againff the Plaintiff's demand. i Stato
Laws. 48.
For the Plainti, in reply, it was infifted, that the object of
the aa of defalcation was to prevent a multiplicity of fuits, and
that it could have no pofible effe& upon the gencral quefion,
whether Bird's bond operated as a payment or extinguifhment pro
tanto of the preceding debt ? This queftion has been agitated in
England as well fince as -before theftatute, and the prefent idea has
iever been fuggefted. The ac of Affembly fpeaks of two or more
being mutually indebted ; and, although it authorizes a defalcation, "

SUPRErMLE CouRT of Pennfyhrama.

A23

tion, it does not define what lhall he deemed a payment or extinguifhment.
There is no fair ground to affert that Ixm.itn received an adequate fatisfaetion by converting the intereft into principal ; for, he
was cntitlad to have his intereft pun&ually paid ; and the books of
Chancery have gone fo far as to declare, that, where money is in
arrear upon a moi'tgagej it was not ufuty to take intereft upon the
intereft. In the cafe from Cro. Y. 579- indeed, the intereft was
alfo added to the principal ; but this the Court did not confider a
fufficient bar. Nor was Hamilton benefitted in refpe& to time;
for, the bond was given, not to fhorten the period of payment, but
to protra& it; as the money was a&ually due, and ought to have
been previpufly paid.
After confidering the cafe and arguments,

THE

CHIEr JusTICE,-

at the prgfent term, delivered the opinion of the Court
M'KEAN, Chief7u.fflte.-The cafe appears to be this :-That

the Teftator of the Defendants gave a mortgage to the Teftator of
the Plaintiff on four feveral tra&s of land. The heirs of the mortgagor fold the equity of redemption of three of thefe tra&s to Mark
Bird, who, afterwards (on the 3 d day of ALy I78S,y executed a
bond for £1'65r. to the mortgagee; and this bond, being for the
amount ot the intereft then due upon the mortgage, alfo bore intereff.
No receipt, however, fox the bond, for the intereft, nor, indeed,
any minute of the proceeding, was entered upon the mortgage;
nor has any exprefs proof been offered that the bond (upon which
there has not been any thing paid) was accepted as a fatisfa&ion
pre tanto of the money due on -the mortgage. The three tra&s of
land conveyed to .Mark Bird have"been fold in order to"fatisfy the
mortgage ; but, proving infufficient, the queflion now arifes, on
the circumftances whiGh I have t1tted, whether the bond given by
MarkBird is to be taken, either in Jaw or equity, as a paymenr,
difcharge, or recompenfe, for fo much of the mortgage money?
The Court, having maturely confidered :hc cafr, are of opinion
that -he bond is not a payment pr tanto ef the mortgage money:
for which opinion they will content tbemfelves with declaring the
general principles, and referring to the adthorities whe:*ce "aofs
principles are deduced.
i. irft, then, one judgment cannot be pleaded in bar of another, which is of equal nature and dignity, no nore than one bond,
or obligation, can be pleade. in bar of another. Cro. E. 817. a.Bac.
.4r.
552.
2. In the fecond place a bond, which is no fatistaaidn of another bond, cannot be deemel a f'tifa:.oin of a mortgage, which
is a fecurity of a higher natuue. To render it a fatisfat ion, itought
to better the Plaintiff's cafe, in point of fialety, and expedite the
time of payment; for, a bond with fureties will not he a fatisfaaion of one without. unlefs the time of payment is thtrcby
fliortned.

42

4i-Ezs ruled and hdjudgei ift the

Sfhortened, i Str4. 427. -z Broiv.l. 47. 71. Hob. 68. 6 0. t AMd,
9-25. 2 Mod. 136. (rs. L 579. gro. C. 85. 86. 3 Lev. 55. 7 Salk;
124. I Burr. 9. 2 97th 7.
"3. And, in the third place, as there is no entry of the bond in
quellion upon the mortgage, fliewing that it was received in payment or fatisfa&ion of the intereft then due, "nor any proof that it
was fo intended by the parties, a prefumption naturally arifes, that
the bond was merely taken as a collateral, or ftipplementary, fecurity; and no debt, or duty, can be e:tinguithed, but by a fccurity of a higher.naure than the firf.
For thefe reafons, we decide the quellion fubmitted by the Referrees to the Court, in favor of the Plaintiff, and dire& judgment
to be accordingly entered upon the report.

DE HAVE14

verfus

HENDERSON.

'flHE Plaintiff was examining a witnefs to prove the purport of
J. an order given to him by the idjutant General, during the
late war, for the. refloration of his horfe, faddle and bridle, which
had been feized by the Defendant, as the property of a difaffe6ted
perfon,- although upon trial the Plaintiff was acquitted, when Levy
obje(ted, that the order itfelf ought to be produced, or frme pccount
given of its lofs, before the witnefs was admitted to give evidence
of its contents.
MIKLAN, Chief7ujfice.-The oath of the Plaintiffimuft be received to prove what has become of the order. It is, I think, the
only way in which fatisfa6tory information can be obtained on a
point of this nature.
The Plaintiff, bein, accordingly Aworn, and proving the lofs
of the order, he was allowed to proceed in examining the 'Wit.nefs as to its contents.

The Leffee of THOMPs ON etUx. verfus WHITE.
EJECTMENT for a houfre and lot in Recondflreet, in the city.
lot Philadphia. The aaion was tried by a Jury at bar,
in 7anuary term, 1788, and-a verdia given for the Plaintiff." A
motion was then made by the D-fendant's counfel for. a new
trial, which was argued,. in favor of the new trial, by Li"is an
-eatly, and, againft -it, by Ingerfol .and. Sergeant, in January term,
1789.; and, the.'Cburt having continued the caufe under advifeminnt, gave their opinion in the prefent term.
The cafe, upon the evidence; was as'follows :-Dorothy Gordon,
being foized in fee of the ioiety of the premiffes in queltion, in
termarried

