208

ruled and adjudged in -the

which was formerly exercifed by a lingle Judge, and it is their duty,

1787
-....

CASES

i

finally to acquit or condemn the fhip, as in their confciences they

think ought to be done.
The Jury, after a fhort adjournment, returned a verdic in lavour
of the informants.

JANUARY

AffiAnee verfus GOODMAN.

T7HE PRESIDENTr, 'after argument and confideration, deliverel
the judgment of the Court in this caufe, upon 3 point referved
at the trial.
Smppa, Prefldent.-This is an a&ion on the cafe, brought
upon a writing faid to te a promiffory note, and declared upon as
iuch. The form of it is not the ufual form of a promifibry note ; it
runs thus; " I promife and oblige myfelf and my heirs to pay to
.7anuaryand his Affigns," it concludes With the words " as witnefs
my hand and feal ;" and it is aeuallyfealed. Two witnefiies fubfcribe under the words " given in prefence of us."
On the trial, the fubfcribing witneffes were not called, nor any evidence given of their death, or abfence ; but evidence was offered
of the hand writing of the Defendant, who fubfcribed the inftrument, which was permitted to be given in evidence, on referving the
point.
In this cafe two queftons arife ; one regards the Nature of the InJrument; the other the Sufficiency of the Evidence. i. If the inftrument is a Specialty, then it ought not to have been
given in evidence, in In a&ion of Afumpftt, on a promiffory note.
This general doarine is not denied; .but, it, is faid, it is not to be
confidered as a fpecialty, or deed, unlefsproof be made of its having
been fealed and delivered as a deed; and that no fuch proof appearing, the Plaintiff had a right to confider it as a note of hand. Fhat
a deed cannot be regularly proved but by proving the fealing and
delivery, there can be no doubt; as if non e./fauRum be pleaded to a
Bond, the plantiff muft prove ihe fealirig and delivery,-this proof
fies upon him. But, in the prefent cafe, the proof of the execution of the iniftrument as a deed, is attempted to be put upon the
perfon againfl whom it is produced. The plantiff produces an ohligation to fupport an adtion on a Note-hall he fay, againfl his qwn
ftewing, that unlefs you, the Defendant, prove this to have been
fealed and delivered, it is no Obligation, and I may confider it as
a Nate? The Plantiff himfelf will not prove it, hnd the Defendant
cannot.--The Infirument produced has the formal words of an Obligation; it binds the party and his heirs to pay to another and his afgn;
-The words, ".as witnefs my Hand and Seal," flhew the intended nature of ihe InfItrument, and it a&ually appears with a Seal;
this denominates it a fpecialty. The definition of a fpeciality is
thus given in 2 Black. CoM. 465. " Debts by fpecialty are fuch
whereby a fum of money becomes or is acknowledged to be due,
Ity.an inftrument under fea." That this is an Infirument under
feal,

COURT of COMMON PL-EAs ofr PiladelphiaCounty.

2o9

feal, acknowledgifig a debt to be due, appears by infpeffion.

If

it be objeted, that this feal might be put to it by a Itranger, the

fide who alledges that, ought to prove it, efpecially if it be that
fide who has poffeffion of the paper.
Should this attempt fucceed, all legal diffin&ions, between fpecialties and other writings, would be confounded and deftroyed at
thewill of the perfon producing them ; and the wife provifions of
the law to guard debtors againift being twice called upon for the fame
debt, would fall to the ground, efpecially in thfe cafes of aflignable
inftruments.
2. If this were to be confidered not as a .pecialty, but a Note,
then the fecond queflion would arife, whether being attefted
by fubfcribing witneffes, thofe witneffes ought not to be produced;
or fome account given of them. Promiffory Notes are not ufually
attefted by fubfcribing witneffes, and, therefore, the ordinary mode
of proving them is by witneffes to the handwriting; but if the parties will have fubfcribing witneffes, in what refpe&, and upon what
grounds, can the difin&ion be drawn between the proof neceffary in
the cafe of notes and bonds ? The rule of law as to the befl evidence,
which the law requires, is, that no fuch evidence fhall be admitted
which, ex natura rei, fuppofes ftill greater evidence behind in the
party 's own poffeffion, or power. This rule applies equally, to the
withholding the beft.proof of thejgnature of a Note, as of the fealing and'delivery of a bond. If a note is not witneffed, it does not
appear that any third perfon faw it figned, in which cafe, the bet
evidence is*the handwriting of the party; but, if it be witneffed,
then it appears, on the face of the note, that there is better evidence
behind; and the bel evidence that the nature of the cafe -admits of,
the law requires.
As no folid diftinaion between the cafe of bonds and notes can
be fhewn upon prindple, fo none appears from the authorities. Inflrumental witneffes appear by the cafes to be always called upon,
and are equally neceffary to prove thofe writings which are notunder
feal, as thofe that are; and the cafe in s. Stra. i 49, which refpeas
the proof of promiffory notes before a jury.of enquiry,, is decifive.
On the whole, therefore, we are of opinion, that the law is with
the Defendant upon both points, and there mu be a new trial, or
the Plainiff may take a non fuit at his ele&iou.

SUPREME

1787

