330

t 88.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the.

LESHER

verfus

GE HR.

"rT HE Menue in this cafe was laid in Philadephia, and Judgment
. being entered, an ej.ecution was thereupon iffued immediately into Bucks county.
Sgeant obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why the execution thould
not be quafhed, alledging that it ought to have been preceeded by
a Fi.fa, in the county where the JVniue was laid, inorder to ground
"j7f/?atun into Bucks.
41 tence they had pronouncea;

and whetihef, of courfe, they had hot made them" felves proper objcdls of impeachment."
The Aflembly, having prcvioufly appointed a committee to report the orair f
y.roceeding on Mm Ofa"d's memurial, refolved ifeC"ijhto
a committee of the
-whole, to hear the eviderce in fupport of the charges exhibited. Three days were
confumed in the examination of witneffes, during which, the above report was
febftantially proved, together with the fubfequent tranfa&ion relative to Mr. Ofwa!d's imprifonmest,
Mr. Lewis, as a member of the honfe, then delivered a very elaborate.argument,
in vindication of the condudl: of the judges; and, though, thisis, in fame degree, foreign
to my immediate undertaking, it may not be unprofitable to thofe, who, either
now nrhereaf.r, wifh to underfland the principles of fo intereftling a cafe, to delineate the leading-features of the do&rine which he maintaincd.
He began with Rating the ineftimable charaaer oftrue liberty, which is equal.
ly endangered by tyranny on the one hand, and by licentioufnefs upon the other.
-Hefaid, it did not confift in the uncontrouled puwcr of doing whatever the will
might prompt an individual to attempt ; but, while it was independent of arbitrary and defpotic rule, it was happily regulated by the laws and conflitution of the
Rlate. Havin- refcued Sir William Dlack/fone from the fligma of being a coutly
writer, by Ibewing the enthufiafm of that author in favor of the trial by jury, Mr.
Le-w; referred to the celebrated Coomentaries in fupport and illurtration of his fen-timelts upon liberty. x Black. Com. 1 .25. z Black. CaM. 4 .Blac. Com. 3. 42.

He then commented upon-the origin, nature, and purpofes of a flare of fociery,
which, he faid, was principally formed to protea the rights of individuals; a-d,
of thofe rights, he pathetically difcribed the right of enjoying a good name, to be
the moft important and moft precious. He obferved, that the injuries which could
be done to any other property, might be repaired; but reputation was no' only-che
oft valuable, but, lkcwife, the soft delicate of human poffeffions.
It was the
moll difficult t3 acquire ; when acquired, it was the moft difficult to prefeive;
and when loft, it was never to be regained. If,therefore, it was not as much
protedled, as any' other right, the aged matron, and the youthful virgin, (fince
purity ofcharadler is the palladium of female happinefs) while they are fettered by
the habits and expe"Rations of fociety, are expofed and abandoned by its laws and
inflitutions.
But this evil is effedlually removed, when we confider the bill of
rights as prebluding any attempt to reftrain the prefg, and not as authorizing infidious falfioods and anonymous abufe. The right of publication, like every other
right, has its natural and neceffary boundary; for, though the law allows a man the free ufe of his arm, or the poffeffion of a weapon, yet it does no:
authorize him to plunge a dagger in the 6reaft of an incioffenfive neighbour.
IvTr. L.wis then proceeded to confider the immediate fubjed& of complaint.
He
flated it to be two-fold;- ift, That the CHrer JusTic: had protradled Mr. Of,:oa!J': imprifonment beyond the legal expiration of his fentence; and, 2dly, Thyt
the imprifonment itfelf,- ws unconflitutional, illegal, and tyrannical.
Ou thefil point, heobferved. that it wa', indeed, a ferious charge, if Mr. Of-Z:!dcould prove that a fingle jullice, had arbitrarily altered, or counteradled, the
record of the court, in order to accomplifh the .imprifonment of a citizen.
Bu:
how was the charge fupported ? The opinion given by the Cosaa JUsIcE to the
lailer, wa, not given in his judicial capacity ; and though a paper, faid to be A
tranfcript

SUPREME COURT of Penfylvania.
Levy, in (hewing caufe,

contended,

33!

that the a6t of Aflembly

bad departed Irdm the praice in England; and that in direing a
e'flatum it referred only to the Courts of CGmn'non Pleas, which aro

imitted in juriftiaion to a fingle cgunly :That the fame a& eflablifhed the jurifdiftion of the Svprefne Owttrt, and made it co-exten-

five with the State; and that, therefore, as the Legiflature was
lilent with refpe&H to iffuing a 'ef4atuin from this latter court, it was
fairly to be inferred, they did not mean to require it. He further
infifted that the'pra'tice fupported his conftrucLion, and that a de-

T t 2

viatiur

trani:ript from the tecords, was fhewn to him, 7et it was not finhfcrilsd by the
Prothonotary, nor was it under the feal of the court. This, therefore, could not
be a fufficient document to fet afide hik recolleifion of the fentence; it was no legal
evidence of the faa which it flated, (Gilb. law ofEv. 2.3.) and the little time that
elapfed between the opinion given to the Jailer, and the diredeions for Mr. OfWald's
releafe, we may fairly prcfume to have been confumned in examining the records.
On thefercnd point, he engagedin a-long and ingenious difquifition upon the nature of what is called the libertj oftheprsf ; he reprefented the ihackles which k.al
been impofed upon it during the arbitrary periods of the .Iglo government; and
thence deduced the wifdona and propriety of the precaution, which declares in. the
Lill of igf.t, that the pers hall not be fnbje& to refiraint. He gave an hiftorical
narrative of tue Bri:i/ ais of parliament and proclamations, which debarred every
snai of the right of publication, without a previous licence obtained from officers,.
eftabliised by the government to infpe, and pronounce upon every literary performance; but obferved, that this oppreflion (which was intended to keep the
people in a flavifh ignorance of the condudt of their rulers) expired in the year 1694,
when the dawn of true freedom roe upon that natio:a. 9 val. Stat. at large, p. r9o.
Since that memorable period, the liberty of the prefs has flood on a firm and rational
bails. On the one hand, it is not fubje& to the tyranny of previouseftraints, and,on the other, it affords no fan&ion to ribaldry and flander ;-fo true it is, that
to ecfore the ficertioufnifi, is to maintain tliliberty of the prefs. 4 Blacl. Corn. iso.
:zE. izz. Here, then, is to be difcerned the genuine meaning of this fedlion in
the bill of rigtr, which an oppofine conftrudlion would proftitute to the moll ignoble
purpofes. Every man may putlifh what he pleafes; but, it is at his peril, if he
phblilas any thing which violates the rights of another, or interrupts the peace
and order of fociety ;-as every wan may keep poifoiss in his clofet, but who will
a.Tert that he may vend them to the public for cordials ! If, indeed, this fcelion of
the bill of rights had not circumferibed the authority of the legiflature, this houfe,
being a fingle branch, might in a defpotic paroxiln, revive allthe odious refnraints,
Hence, arifes the
which dtfgraced the-early annals of the BeifU government.
great fundamiental advantage of th;, provitlion, which the authors ofthe conflitution
r,ave wifely interwoven with our political fydiem; not, i: appears, to tolerate and
indulge the paflions and animofities ol individ-ua's, but efre.2ually to pro:ea the citizens from the encroachments of men in power.
It has been afferted, however, that Mr. Ofwi!%' addrefs was of a harmlefs texture; that ii was no abu:v of he right of pubicatior, to which, as a citizen, lie
wa s entitled; and, in lhort, that in c9nfidering it at a contempt of tie court, the
judges have adtcd tyrannically, illegally, and uncoisfitutionally. 2 utlez us diveft;
the fubje& of thefe high-founding epithets, and the reverfe of this affertion, will be
-vlent to every candid and unprejudiced mind : For, fuch publications are certainly calculated to draw the adminifiration ofr ufice from the proper tribunals ; and
in their-place to fpbaituto newfpaper al-ercations, in which the moft tkilful writer
is moreover the duwill generally prevail againft all the merits of the cafe. fu it
ty of the judges to proed&fuitors, not only from. perfanal violence, but fronm inI-lence, Lora
fi-lious attempts, to undermine their claims to. law and juftice.
Chancellor Hardz-v.Ze, (who was an ornament to his couatry, and not one o whore
decrees during the period of twenty years which he fat as clhancellor, was evar rverfcd) has doicribed three forts of contemnts- zft, Sca,,aizing ti.. cwurt iftl.',

i 7 89.

..332
f789

k

-

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

viation from it would be attended with great delay and injuflice:
for, when the af was paffed, although a YTeflatum might iflue in
tbr e months from a Court of Common Pleas, it muft have been
fufpnded for fix months in the Supreme Court ; and thus a debtor
would have it in his power to give an unfair preference to creditors
iai the County where he lives.
Sergeant, in reply,. flated, that the Supreme Ceurt has powers fimilar to the Courts of King's Bench and Common Pleas in England,
arid that the courfe of praffice, with retpe& to a Z'eflatum, had always
&dly, Abufing parties who are concirrned in caufes there; and 3 dly, Prejuicing
tisankind againft perfons, before the caufe is heard. I At. 471.
And in a, Vey
52o, though no refedion was caft upon the court, and the offender pleaded igno.
rance of the law, yet, it is exprefsly laid down, that ignorance was not an excufe,
-and that the reafon for puniiing was, not only for the fake of the party i: jured,
but alfo for the fake of the public proceedings in the court to hinder fuch advertifements, which tend to prepoffefs people as to thoie proceedings. A fimilar doarine
is main:ained in x P. IVilliams 675. And 4 lack. Com. a82. pronounces the priniting, even true, accouknts ofa caufe depending in judgment, to be a c6ntempt of
the court.
But it has beent faid, that thiesuitfc was not depending in court, when the offence
W'as.comrnitted, becaufe the addref%was publifhed on thefrJV of .uI,
and the writ
agaia Mr. Of0wald was not ieturnable 'till thefucceeding day. This idea originates
in an ignorance of the confitution of our courts, which, in this refpe& differs of"fentially from the confltation of the tour s of Bmiland.
1here all original procers
iffues out of the Court of Chancery, and is made returnable into the .ing's Bench or
Common Pleas%fo that, in tuth, the writ gives the juriflifion, and, of courfe,"
'till it is returned, the coirt cannot take cognizance of the caufe. Hero, however,
the original p cefsiflues out of the very court into which it is returnable, and is
ifrually ceLed the laft day of the preceeding term. It is abfurd, therefore, to fay
that thejurifdidion of a court, by whofe authority a fuit is adually inftituted, can
be thus lufpended and paicelled out.
With refped to the addrefs itfelf Mr. Lewis annalyfed its oflenfive parts, in
order to Ihew that it treated the judges with indecent opprobrium ; that, in foine
refpedis, i%was inconfifteit with truth, and that, in its generdl operation', it was
intended, and could not fail, to excite refentment againfl .8rowne, the plaintiff,
and compallion for Oswatd, the defendant, in the caufe.
He now proceeded to confider the mode of puniflbment, which formed a material
part of Mr. Ofwald's complaint, and, in fupport of its legality, refered, generally.
to the authorities, which he had already cited. He obfarved that much declamaion had ben walled upon this topic; and tiat the proceeding by attachment had
been vehemently reprobated as the creature of the Courtof Star Chamber. Though
ihat court might have employed the procefs of attachment (of which, however, be
did not recolle& an inflance) yet, he infifted, that it was idle and abfurd to coh£der it as the creatureof a jurifdi&ion, whole own exiftence was'of a much later
date, than that of the fubjea to-which we are told it gave birth. To prove this,
le flated that the court of Star CLamher was not inflituted 'till the year 1368; that
.21ragnia Chartawas confirmed, at leall, 1x3 years before that time; and, as all the
authorities concur in declaring that the proefs by attachment is as ancient as the laws
tfitmfclves, ahd that it was confiried by .Magna Charta, its origin is confequently
l6ng antecedent to that of the Court of tar Cbambtr. 4 Black. Com. 28o 281. 28z.
183- 284. a85.
But he argued, with great Ilrength and yerfpicuihy, ,that the procefs of attachment, which in praaice was multiplied into innumerable ufes, was effential to the
adminiftration of juilice ; and that if the exercife of this power was (uppreffed,
the courts thernfelves might as well be annihilated.- He reprefented, that it was
an eilablilled priaciple in law, that one court could not punifh a contempt comraitted againil asother , then, continued he, how Thall the'Common Pleas repel an
injury

SUPREME CouRtt- of Pennfy!vata.

339

Ways been the fame. But, he contended, that unlefs the a& of
Alrembly had exprefsly extended the power to the county courts,
they could not have proceeded by 2'efatum, to execute out of their
immediate jurifdiction ; which is the true reafon
why
Legiflaother.
in thethe
ture takes notice of the writ in one cafe, and not
Upon a queffion from the Court, Mr. Burd, the Prothonotary,
faid that previoufly to the Revolution, the proceeding, irafuch
cafes, had always been by Tetatur ; though fince that period adifferent practice had been introduced by fome of the attornies, contrary
to his opinion.

By

injury of that nature ? It is not vefled with any crim;nal jnrifdi6Eion ; it cannot
impannel a grand jury, nor try an indidtment ; the only remedy.therefore which
the care can admit, isby an attachment. He nippiied the fame reafoning to the
Su preme Court; and with refpedl to the Orphan': Courts, the Court of Admialty, and

the Courts of the Regilers of Wills, Lf'c. he obferved, that their praceedings, according to the civil law, were totally independent of juries ; and that confeqaently
if they were deprived of the procefs of attacbhment, it was in vain for them to decide
and to decree, for they would then be without any means to enforce obedience to
their decifionsaud decrees. Nay, he added, that, without this power, the legifJature itfelf would be expofed to wanton infult and interruption ; and that letters,
fuch as he had received, menacing his exiftence for his condu& on the prefent oc"cafion, might be written and avowed with abfolute impunity. He then enumara.
ted many inlances in which grofs injuftice-would take place, but for the intervention of this fummary proceeding.
Where a fheriff refufes, or neglels, ta return a writ; or to pay money which he has received upon an execution ; where
an inferior court refufes to tranfmit a record ; a witnefs, or juryman, to attend or
to be fworn ; asad where a defendant in jeament refufes to pay coils, after a nonfuit, forwant of a coe'-ffion of leafe entry and ouier;-in all thefe and many other
cafes he demonilrated, that the great, efficient remedy, was by an attachment to'
Be iffued againift the delinquent.
In tracizig the antiquity ot the protdrs by attachmient, be remarked; that, it was
ad/nitted to be a part of the common law by the mol authoritative writers ; and
that the common law was a compound of the DanS/h, Saxon, Norman, Pia and
Civil law. i Blael. Com. 63.

As, therefore, the attachment is derived from the

civil law, and the civil law was introduced into ERngland by the Romans, early in
the firft century, he thought it impradticable at this day to afcertain itsrource;
but infifled that enough appeaLed to prove it to be of immemorial ufage, .and a
part of the law of the land.
He then adVerted to the leading objedlion made by the advocates for Mr. Ofviald, that, however the proceft of attachment might be legal in England, it was not
fo in Pennfylvania. From a decifion in the time of Judge Kinfey, he fhewed, that,
before the revolution, an attachment had iffued for a contempt, and that the party
had, in faq, afifwered certain interrogatories filed by order of the court; fo that

it only remained to enquire, whether any alteration had been introduced by the

coritlitution of the fiate.

I, the 24thfea. of that inlirument," it is decl-red, that,

s, the SuOreme C6urt, and the feveral courts of Common Pleas of this Commonwealth,

,ffiall, Leides the povrs ufually exerdfrd by ,chcourt,, haie the powers of a court
41 of chancery. fo far as relates. &c.'
N/ow, as it appears hy the cafe which occurred while Mr. Xnfiy was chief jultice, that the power of iffuing attachments was

ufually exercifed by the Supreme Court, fo far from altering the law, this is a diredt
confirmation of the jurifdidtlion of the court; for, the greater naturally includes
the lefs; and if the court is veiled with all its former powers, by what pofible confirudian.can we deprivc it df this ? But it is anfwercd, that a feaion in the till of
rights provides, that " In all profeiutions for (riminal offences the trial flall he by
jury, &c. ' True; but the whole fyfltm murl be taken twet.er; or, if we ea.
mine a particular part, it muft be with a recole6lion of the inim'diatc fubjeet t.
vvhich that part relates. For, cthcrwifc, this
wvry fedbon mnht us Pr ,rrl"

1788.

34

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

BY THE CoUrt:-The Legi'flature before-the Revolutioi pre-'
fcribed no rules for the Supreme Court; but it is certainly vefted
with the powers of the King's Bench and Common Pleas in England;
and the-pra&ice has been, in general, governed by the fame law.
Hence, we find, that it was formerly thought neceffary to'proceed
by Teatum in Pennfylvana ; and although a contrary pra&ice has
lately obtained, it is without-the opinion or fan&ion of the court.
We think, therefore, that this execution muff be quafhed ; and
in everv future cafe of the fame kind, let a Fi.fa. be filed in the
Suprne Court, with a return of nula bona ; and then a term mufl
intervene before the Tetaetuin iffues, in order to fupport the fi&ion.
The Execution quafhed.
RESPUBLICA
brought to prove, that the judges could not he rpeathed (fince furely that is Pot
i trial by jury) as that they have not the power of iffuing attachments. All cafes
proper for a trial by jury, the bill of rights clearly meseat to refer to that tribunal ;
but cam any thing moi e explicitly demonflrate, that the framers of the conttution
were aware 1f fome cafes, which required another mode of proceeding, than their
;eearation, that " Trials fhall be by jury as Leretoforet '-Vho will affert th.t
contempIts were ever to itied ? who will hazard an opinion, that it ispofible fo to
try
them f
- But does nni'the conflitution of Pennfylvanie
further diflinguifh between the la-w:
fsthe land, and thejwlgmmni of ourpeers;, furnifhing a firiking alternative, by the
dijudtive particle orf This very fentimeent, expreffed in the fame words, appears
sn the Af'agna Cbarta of Einglapd; and yet BIocld&.re unequivocally informs us, that
the procels of a#-achmeni wa. eolfiryed by that celubratw'd inflruient. In the 14
czqp. of .Mtagna Ckarta, it isa!lo faid, that 4,no amercement fhall be affeffed, but
11by lawful men of the vicinage;" and who, that is ct all acquaited with the law,
or with the reafon of the law, can think it pu~ble, in that cafe, to purfue the
,geaerdlityof the exprellon .I
From thefe analotgous principles, therefore, and the-conflruminn of ages, we may
fifely argue on the prcfent occaflon. But the wild and hypothetical interpretations,
which fume men have offered, would inevitably involve us in a lzbyrin.h of error,
and eventually endanger that liberty, which they profefs, and every honeft citizen
"naiti wffl
s to prefurve.
As to the manner of proceeding: upon the a',chm,ni, the court on this octafion
have followed ihe precedent in Alofley's Rr. 25o. where it is liberally faid, that the
defendatitihall tiot be permitted to be examineid to bring hinifelf into contempt ;
but upon proof of the contempt, fie(hall be alltwcd to purge himielf upon his
oath.
Upon the whole, Mr. Lewis concluded, that tl-e only grounds of impeachment,
were bribery, corruption., grofs partiality, or wilful and arbitrary opptellion ; and
memorial ought to be difmiffed.
that as none of thefe hao been proved, Mr. Of-evalds
I-e aid; indeed, that ie would be preferable to return to the Rate of nature, than
to live in a Rtate
of focicty upon the terms which that memorial prefcnted ;-terms,
which left the weak and the innocent a prey to the powerful and the wicked ; and
wkich gave to falfehood and licentioufnefs, all thai, was due to freedom and to truth.
When Mr. ZLewi'x argument was clofed, Mr. Findley, a menber from Weftmoreland, rofe, and dlivercd his fentiments, with great ability and precifiun.
He acknowledget, that he had received great information and pleafure, from the
learned and eloquent fpeech of the member who preceded him ; but he thouiht it
was unneccffary, upon the prefent occaflon, to explore the dark and diflant periods
ofjuridical hiflu,
The rights and immunitiea which formed the great objc& of
7.
rhe revolution, he contided, 'were capabl~e of an rafy and unequivocal definition i
they were nor of fuch remote antiquity as to be loft even to the feelings of the
people; and the conflitution of the iate was the only proper 'criterion, by which
they

