CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

3
1788.
-

is in molt cafes impollible. It feems to be a mode adopted, not
for a trial of the merit-, but only to conform to the nature of an
a6lion on the cafe, which requires a Jury of Inquiry to afcertain
thefum for which execution is to iffue; and it may be confide red as
a proceeding to inform the confcience of the Court, in the room of
the fuppofed oath in the aaion of debt. In its nature it appears
to be an ex parte proceeding; and not within the reafon of the rules
in executing writs of Inquiry on Judgments by default; where the
Defendant has regular notice, and has no other opportunity ofmaking a defencei
.The attachment law, and all proceedings under it, fuppofe the
Defendant to be an abfent perfon, and he ,,as, in trutb, no day ;n
6,urt, till lie enters fp~ecial bail, and thereby diffolves the attachment; ox comes in afterwards, when the money is recovered from
the Garnifliee, to difprove the debt, which is done by afcirefacias
ad disprbandum debilum; in either of which cafes, he puts the Plain.tiff upon the legal proof of his deijiand, and- is admitted to make a
full defence. The right of making that defence before the Jury of
Inquiry has no foundation either ;nfthe aa or the pra6lice under
it.
, t'rhe law fuppofes, from his abfence, that he is then incapable
of making a defence; and, for that reafon, hIas afforded him ample
time and opporturity afteiwards to do it; nor does ik accord with
legal ideas, that he fhould have this opperuwity of tryirg his caufe,
.niid alfo another afterwards upon entering fpecial bail.
•R has been faid, that notice of executing thefe writs of Inquiry
his been ufually fet up in the Prothonotary's and Sheriff's Offices;
and that thi notice would be vain, if the party might not appear and
make his defence. This pra&ice of putting up notices. mulf have
:been in'troduced by the Gentlemen of the Law ex majore cautela.
If it were a new cafe, we fhould perhaps think it nugatory; as a
perfon abroad cannot be fuppofed to take notice of a paper put
up in the office, which he could never fee. However, as it is the
pra&ice, it is proper it flould be continued; and it may, at leaft, ferve
the purpofe of giving the Garnilhee, or the Attorney in fac, of
the Defendant, an opportunity of knowing, and :.,,.izing his conflituent, of the nature of the Plaintiff's demand, .-at- he may be
prepared to defend himfelfagainit it.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the refufing, to admit
the Defendant in the attachment to produce his evidence before the
Jury of Inquiry, is not a fuikient reafon for fetting afide the InRule difcharged.
q
o

PENRosE

verfus

HA R.

N a rule to fhew caufe why the Judgment confeffed by warrant of Attorney in -this cafe fhcuid not be opened, Ft/her
flated that feveral partial paymentshad been made by the Defendalt,
which
O

COURT of-COMMON PLEAS of Piljladlphla Ch*nty.

379

which fhe Plaintiff had applied firft to the difcharge of the arrearages of intereft; whereas he infifted, that it ought firft tohaye been
dedu&ed from the principal debt.
But SH PE5, Preaident, faid, that thepraice had been otherwife;
and he thought with great reafon and propriety. He remembered
to have heard of an old decifion when Logan was Chikf.7ul/ice, in
which it was exprefsly fettled, that money paid an account of a
bond, fhould firtl be applied to difcharge the intereft due at the
time of the payment, and the refidue, if any, creaited towards fa.isfaclion of the principal. By this rule, the Gentlemen of the
Bir had uniformly governed their calculations before the Revolution.
Lewis, for the Plaintiff, infifted that the praaice was the fame at
the prefent day, and appealed to. the Attornies in Court, who confirmed his afferion. *

0NIEL

verfus

Ci!w.

F

OREIGN Attachment.-The Defendani's intereft being attached in a Shallop, Levy, aftcr filing a pofitive affidavit of the
debt, moved, at the firft terni, that the Shallop might be fold, as a
perifhable commodity: And the motion was accordingly granted.
ELLIOT

verfus

ELLIOT.

T

HERE was an agreement filed in this a&ion to.refer the mat-;
ter in difpute to one Levii; but in the official rule, by miftake of the Clerk, the name inferred was Lewis.
After report, Sergeant moved to amend the rule by the agreement
filed: and leave was accordingly given.
WiAVER

verfus

LAWRENCE.

'1HERE had been a levy upon lands by virtue of a Fi. fa. iffued
.L in this cafe, returnable to the prefent term ; and now, on
Levy's motion, the inquifition, which had been been held upon the
value of the lands, was quathed.
It then became a queffion, whether a new Fi.fa. muff be iffued;
or whether the Sheriff might proceed, after the return of the former
writ, to take ;! new inquilition without further procefs P
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-I cannot perceive any thing in the aa of
Aflembly which precludes the Sheriff from nolding an inqueft after
the return of the Fi.fiz; and I have always under1tood it to be the
pral ice
B bb
£2 4.
'CS ant.

-

