45~
1789.
L

.CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

After argument, by ,S iv, for the Plaintiff, and Tilghman, for the
Defendant, the rule to flay proceedings was marde abfolute; and
the rule for,payment of double coils, was difcharged.

THom-soN Pf. in Err. verfus MUssER: Two
Affions.

T

H ES E a&ions were removed by writs of Error from the
Common Pleas of Lancafiter County ; and, on return of the
refpe&ive reqords, the proceedings appeared to have been as follow:
I. On thefirfl, or larger, record, it appeared, that a Capias in
an aficn of Dett in the Detinet, iflued at the fuit of john MuJ/r
againil 7hn 2hqmpf-n, for 2oo,ooo weight of tobacco; and the declaration fet forth a penal bill, dated the -2 of Yanuary, 1784, by which
Jehn Thompfon binds himfelf in thepenalty of 2oo,ooo weight of net
crop tobacco, of the infpection of Frederikfurgh, or Falwmolh, on
Rappahannock river, in 'irginia,to pay roo,ooo wcight of tobacco,
of the fame infpeaion, to John Mlz4-2r, or his afligns, as foonas it
could be colleaed of thofe who are indebted to the faid John Mujer,

and the Obhgor; but the faid "7ohn Thompfon agrees, that, in cafe
it cannot be collected, or obtained, he will be anfierable for the
-fame."-Aiter Oyer of the bill, the defendant pleaded payment, the.
Plaintiffreplied nonfolvit, and thereupon iffle was joined.
The canfe was tried at Lancafler, on the ;th of December, 1786,
when the Plaintiff below gave in evidence the penal bill flated io
the declaration, upon which an indorfement was made and fubfcribed on the 25 th of May, x785, that "it was agreed by the
parties, that the within tobacco fhould be fettled at the current
price at Frrdericijburgh,on the Ifi of Mfay, 1784 ; at which time
the within bond is confidered due, and is to carrv interefi from the
date." There was, likewife, a receipt on the'back of the bill, figned
by Mufer's attoiney in fa6, on the 5 th of July, 1785, acknowledging that he " received te within bill in full."
Gn behalf of the Defendant below, two indentures were given
in evidence, from which, it appeared, that the Plaintiff and Defefidant had entered into a copartnerihip, for carrying on an in]and trade during a limited period; and on the indenture laff made
between them, a memorandum was endorfed, dated the 3 d of
fanuary, 1784, .fetting forth the receipt of the two penal bills,
on which the prefent a6lions were brought, and declarin that the
fame, when paid, were to go in difcharge of what was due from
Thompfon to MuJfer. Several letters were read from the latter to
the former, in which it was confeffed, ' that MuJir had no other
claim, but upon thefe bonds, againfi Thompfon, and that every pay,
ment

SUPREME COURT

of Pennfylvan;s.

459

ment which had been made fince they were given, was on their i739.
account. The payment of a note for L.4.6 was then proved, '.--_
and an agreement, which had been entered into by Mufler, that
"on the payrfient of .45o Ipecie, and the remainder that may
appear due in warrants on the Treaturer of the State of Firginia,
which are received there in taxes at par, or equal to gold and iilver,
allowing Aluler at the rate of 1241 per- cent. on the whole amount
of the faid warrants, the fame (hall be a fufficient difcharge of the
bill." To prove the paymevt of Iirginia warrants, according to
the terms of the boregoing agreement, a receipt was produced from
Mu/flr's Attorney, dated the 5 th of July, 1786, to this eff'e&:
"Received from 7ohn Yhompjon, C.I668. Ii. 61 Virlinia currency in warrants on the Treafury of Virginia, which is fettled in
fpecie, at Ct 484. 4. 4. V'rginia currency ; being in full payment
of his bond to "John MuJJfr, dated the 3 d of 7anuary, 1784, for
xoo,ooo weight of net crop touacco, of the infpe&ion of FrederickJburgh, orFalmnouth,in Virginia." And, in order to (hew that the warrants thus paid, were receivable in taxes, at par, or equal to gold
and filver, the Counfel for the Defendant below, offered to read
an aft of the Legiflature of Virginia, (which contained a recital 6f
.a precedingaa) on that fubje&, from a pamphlet, flitched in blue
paper, with the foilowing title page:-" A&s palTed at a General
Affembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, begun and held at
the public buildings in the city ot Richmond, on Monday tlhe
3 d day of May, in the year of ourLord 1784.-Richniond:Printed
by gohn Dunlap, and games Hayes, Printers to the Common" wealth." But the reading this a& being obje&ed to, on the ground,
that it was not legally authenticated, the Court over-ruled the evidence ; and a Bill of Exceptions to their opinion was tendered and
allowed.
The Jury gave a verdi& for Al2uffer, faying, that "They find
114,236 weight of net crop tobacco, of the infpe&ion of FrederickJfurgh, or Falmouth, on Rappahannock river, to be due to
" the Plaintiff from the defendant, value £.2ooo, with fixpence
damages and fixpence cofls." Whereupon judgment was entered generally.
II. On the ficond, or fmaller, record, it appeared,that an a6lion
of debt in the detinet, for 2oo,ooo weight of net crop tonacco, of
the infpe&ion of Richmond, or Pettr6burgh,in XVrinia, was brought
on another penal bill of the farn date, by which "J ohn Thompfon
binds himfelf in the penalty of 2oo,ooo weight of tobacco, to pay
to JIohn Mujer, loo,ooo weight of tobacco, of the laft mentioned
infpeffion, at or before the ift of May next enfuing the date of the
bill." 'The pleadings were the fame in this, as in the preceding
cafe; but the declaration being erroneoufly for tobacco of the infpe&ion of" F ederick] urgh, or Falmouth, in Pirginia,on Rappahannock river,- the Plaintiff's counfel, after the Jury were fworn,
mo''c te amend the declaration, agrveably to the tenor and purport

S460,
rS9

CASS ruled and adjddged in the

port of the.,writ, by ftriking outthofe words, and infetting,"' Rich,
fanpd, driPiterurgh;' which the Court allowed, without theconrent cfI the. Defendant, and -direaed the'fame Jury to 6e again im mediately fwom for the trial of the caufe. This being done, and
he Jury gone from the bar, the atto'rnies of both parties, figneA
san'agreemenf, that, ,as it was then very late, the Profhomtaryof
the Cou'rt might receive the verdi&, a6d that, if neceffary, they
woul a'terwar4 mould it into form."
The verdi& then finds, " 17,853 weight of net crop tobacco,
of ihe in'fpe&ion 6f Richmond, or Peter/itrgh, in Virginia, to be
-dueto the 'lPain'tiff from the lefendant, on the bill aforefaid, and the
.true value. thereof to beC446..6. 6. Penn/jZ-aniacurrency, wih
~ipnedamages', andi fixpexnce cdils :" 'Whereupon judgment
.W alfo entered generaly,
: Upoi thefr records the general errors were affignqd, and in ,UX0o
4efl irratum pleaded ini both catifes. They were argued- together,
irft at Lnca,qer, nn, afterwards, in tw'o dff'erent terms, at Phitade/phia, byBradftrd, Lewis, and TIJn, for the Plaintiff in Error
and b-, Chanbers, Hartley, Yeares, 7. B. A -1'ean, Sergeant, and Inogrfll
for the defendant.
.
The f'ecific errors alledged againfl: the flrfl record, were four,
if. That the declaration is for the penalty in a penal bill, but
it omits to ftate, that ,Jon Tho.,fipyn did not pay the fmaller quantity of'Iooooo weight of tobacco, or a-certain furn of money in lieu
thereof, en the.day fixedftbr the pDyment; fo that no cau f of affion
is fhewn to have accrued to lhe Plaintiffbelow for the penalty.
2d.. That this'being an action of dkt ib the detinetl, the verdi&
-is erron'eous, becaufe it finds 114,286 weight -f tobacco to be due

tc the plaintiff from the Defendant, and the true value thereof to be, ooo, which they find of debt, &c. becanfe the finding,
being (- fo much tobacco due to the plaintiff, is not an exprefs determination of the illie, which isfolvwt andnonfilvit; and becaufe
the finding'is not of all that was in ifflue, fince the deciaration is
for 2cc,cCo weight of tobacco,but the verdi& is only for i11.,286,
and ndthinigis faid'of the reff.
3 d. That tie.judgment is erroncous, becaufe, enfuirng the nature of the verdiaft, it is for the value of the tobacco in money, and
'not for the tobaceo itferf; or', it that cannot be had, for the
value thereof in money.
4th. That the Court below were in an error, in over-ruling the
evidence of thejprinted copy ot the a& of Affembly of Virginia,
which purported to have been printed by the law printers of thri
Conamonweealth, refpecting the naure and value of Treafury warxants. or certificates.The fecond and 'thirdof thefe errbrs, were alfo alledged and applied againit thefinaller record, with an additional exception, to
Wit,--That afier the Jury had once been fworn, the Court, without the confcnt of. the -Defendant below, difcharged them, pergitted

SUFREME COURT of Pennfyivania.

461

mitted the Plaintiff to amend his declaration, fwore the Jury 1789.
Rgain, and neither gave the Defendant an imparlance, nor ordered
the plaintiff to pay the cofts occafioned by his faulty' declaration.
The caufes being held under advifement for a confiderable time,
in hopes that a compromife would take place .between the parties,
.THE JUDGEs now delivered their opinions feparately and at large.
M-'KEAN, Chief 7u1?zie :-The arguments on the records before
the Court, have-been ably and learnedly enforced. To there, and
to the authorities produced on both tides, I fhall briefly refer, while
I confider in their order, the objedions that have been made in
favour of the Plaintiff in Error.
i. In.fupport of thefirjf? 6bjeffion, .a variety of precedents have
tbeen
thewn of declarations ppon penal bills from' xiod.Ent. igo.
-28 r. Brown's Alod. hntrandi, &c. 'c. and the following books
were cited. Dl'g. 658. 8 ('. 1.33- 4Bac. .Zbr.13. 7 Co. 10. a.
* Bac. Air. i6. 363. 5 Bac. Abr. 321. i Cro. E. 548- 2 Cro.
183. 500. Cro. C.5 f5. HJ. 82. 23,2.
-12 1od. 81. 1 u!/ir.
163, Salk. 66z. 2 L. Rayr. 814. Catib. 322. Doclrin. P/ac!t.
329.

Co. Litt. 3o3.

But the Counfel for tH Defendant in Error have anfweredthefe
cafes, by urging, that oycr of the penal bil wasprayed and granted;
that the Dfefndiint below pleaded in -chief to the declaration, payment, and jdined ifhr'e
; and that the vtrdi? was for the Plaintiff
below. They contended, that the Plaintiff was only bound to
prove the gilf of the affion ; that it was not incumbefit on him to
prove that the fmaller quantity of roo,ooo weight of tobacco was
not paid; that under theaa for defalcation (i State Laivs 48.) the
Jury are to find the fum really due; and that the defe&, if it was
one, is cured by pleading over in chief, and, alfo, by the verdi&.
In corroboratL of thefe pofitions, they cited, Doug. 658. 8 r-7.
133. laugh. 93. 4.5- 4Bac. Abr. i9 . 16Hob i99. 1 Lill.
Praf. Reg. 418. Crp. 6. 209, 5 Corn Dig-. 57- 58. 66. 1 Mod.,
169. 1 Salk. 37.38. 133 8 Mod. 356. YLev. 19o. 12 Mod. 44.
Cro. L 668. r.perpais. 289. 290. 306. 307. 368. Co. Car. 515.
Cro. E. 68. 12 Ml/od. 459- 414. Carth. Rep. 8o. 94. 2 JJ'ill 380.
.Coup. 407. I Stra. '233 2 Stra. 925. '16o6. ,our. I -ATill.255.
i Salk. 9. Bull.N.'P. 147. 14 9.-3Black. 41o. Barr. on Stat. a93.
2Black. 406.
Vent. 1O8. 114. 122. 156. x Com. Dig. 6o.
2 ent. r53. Kerlw. 187 b. 7 Rep. to z. 9 in. Zhr. 599. pl. r.
to Yin. Ar. 3. 1. r. 16 &"17 Car. 2.c. 8.
We are clearly of opinion, that this defel in the declaration,
with refpe6t to the averment, cannot now be taken advantage of as
an error. It might indeed, have been fatal on demurrer; but, at
this period of the ca'fe, it is cured by the plea in bar, by the verdia,
and by the flatutes of 7eoffails. The defendant below pleaded payment, which admits the declaration to be good. to Fin. Abr. 3.
p1. r2. The penal bill became a part of the record by the oytr;
and if the Jury had not been -fatisfied, that the fmaller quantity was
not

461
1789.

V

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

notpaid, they would never have given a verdi& for r r4,236 weigh t
of tobacco. This was the very thing litigated and determined;
and it was the province ot the Jury, under the a& of defalcation,
to alcertain the balance, which muff have appeared from the evidence. The verdi&, therefore, alfo aids the omihion of the averment.. See" 3 Blark. Com. 394.- Carth. 389. Wnk.Cent. 21. ca.39.
Ibid. 288 ca. 24. Several of the cafes cited on both fides do not
apply ; but all the late authorities (many of which are in point)
fupport our judgment on this occafion. Thofe cafes which bear a
contrary afpr6t, qccurred before the laft of the flattites of Yeoffails,
ard previous to the more liberal decifiois of modern Judges. 2 Burr.
756. The general rule, hove&er, is now well eflablithed, that if
a Plaint if ftates his title in his declaration in a defeftive manner,
it will be cured by a verdi&; but not fo, if the title is totally de-

re_6ire initfelf. Cro.Eg.778.

2. Thefecond obje&ion is to the verdi& ; and to prove the invalidify of that, the Counfel for the Plaintiff in Error, have cited,
Cro 7.681. eliv. 7r. 2 Roll's Abr. 693. tit.erditpI 5. Vaugh.
IVt.227. Cro. 7ac. 31, Cro. E. x 3 3 .
75. 4 Com. Dig. 145.
2 Stra. to89. 2 L. Rym.158i, 3 Lev 55.
To this the Defendant's Counfel have replied, that Pi& form
in a verdiS is not now required ; that it needs only to be underflood what the intention of the Jury was, agreeably to which the
verdi& may afterwards be moulded into form; that the conflant
praftice in all the Courts in this State, as well before as fince the
Revolution, has been to enter the verdits on the iffue of nenfolvit
in the manner that has been ufed in the prefent cafe ; that the intention of the Jury is plain; and that the-mode of entering their
verdiS is the a 6t of the Clerk.-Hob. 54. Co. Litt.'22 7.a. Salk.
,32 8 .pl. 2. ! Lill. Abr 798. 4 Bac.Abr. 5& 59. 99. 5 Bac. 2br.
297: 9 , 314. s Burr. 700. Cro. E. 664.
The Court, concurring in thefe reafons, cannot allow this
exception.
3. That the judgment is for money, and not for the tobacco itfelt, or, if that cannot be had, then for the value thereof, makes
the third objeffion ; in fupport of which the following books are
cited: 2'lv. 7I. 8 Vin. dbr, 41.pl 15. 17. i8.
But it is contended on the other fide, and fuch is the opinion of
the Court, that if the verdi& is good, the judgment muff likewife
be fo ; for being entered generally, when it is drawn at latge, it
may be put into form ; and the merits having been tried, juflice
muff be obtained without being entangled in technical niceties.Cro. 7.5o2. 6Mod.27o. I Wiils. 1. 2Stra. 931. IOf3. r id.
376. 5 Mod.227. 1 Vent. x19. 2 Wils. 380. (owp. 407.
4. The taft error affigned in this record, refpe&s the refufal of
the Court of Common Pleas to admit the Defendant below to read in
evidenc¢, a copy of an a& of Affembly of the State of Virginia,
printed by the Law Printers there, and flitched up, with a few
To
other als, in a blue paper cover,

SUPREME COURT of Ptnfylvania.

463

To maintain this objecion, it has been argued, that in GreatBritain a public a& of Parliament is proved by the printed flatute
book ; that a general hiftory is a proof of a general tranfa&ion,
though not of a particular one; that this is a general a&, and promulgated in the ufual mode of promulgating-the laws of Virginia;
that by the fourth article of the late Confederation, the Courts are
obliged to take notica of the aas and proceedings of other States, as
much as if they had occurred here; and that the ordinances of
France, the laws of the Danib iflands, proclamations in our fifler
States, the flatutes of England,Ireland,and Scotland, heralds' books,
and regillers', have frequently been read in evidence in this Court,
becaufe of theirvu'lic notoriety. 12Mod.. 86.215. 216. 403 x2 Fin.
.br. 119. i 21k. 47. 2 E. .dbr. 4o6. 409- (oMp. 407.- Gilb. L.
E. r3.

In oppofition to thefe arguments, it was contended, that the
laws of Virginia ought to be proved as other fa&s in foreign countries; that in Great-Britainpriuat, ilatutes muff be proved,'either
by fworn copies, or authenticated under the Great Seal; that every
man is, indeed, obliged to know the laws of his own country, for
they are prefumed to be in every man's breaft, and the flatute book
contains hints of them; but the laws of Virginia are unknown tr
Pennfylvania, and are not in any wife obligatory upon us; that the
reafon why private flatutes mufl be proved before they can be received in evidence, applies ftrongly toforeign aas of Affembly, for
io man is obliged to know them; that an a& of Aflembly in print
is no better verified than if it were in writingonly; that this ac of
Alfembly might have been forged, orrepealed, and yet, it would be
impra&icable on a fudden, pending a trial, to prove it; and that
there is no precedent of a determination of any Court, that fuch a
copy is good evidence; for, indeed, it militatesagainft the general rule
ofevidence, " that the befl evidence the nature of the cafe will admit, ought to be produced," and a fworn copy ,compared with the
votes might have been bad, or fome other regular authentication.
Gilb. L. E. 4. 5. 13, 16 17- 12 .AIod, 403. 12 Yin. .dbr. 129.
pl. 59. fidL 119. 120. I Sl. 121. CwpO. 174. Prec. in Chan.
a07. i Lill. Abr. 207. 3 Salk. 154. Doxg. 1. 572, Bid. N. P.
2t. Old Law ofEv. 66. Tri.perPais.232. 3 7ourn. of Cong. 493.
i 2th November, 1777
This fubje6t has been very ingenioufly difcuffed. It is in a great
meafure new; fo far, at leah, that it does not appear to have come
formally before any Court, 'till it arofe in the prefent caufe at
Lancafter. But, at the fame time, I muff remark, that I never
heard 'till then uA fuch evidence being refufed; and, without oppofition, I am certain it has very frequently been idmitted.
Our law is not confinedi to particular precedents and cafes, but
confifts in the reafin of them ; for, the reafon of the law, is the life
of the law. I admit, (hat this printed copy of an a& of afembly,
though it purports to n.ae been printed by the law printers of Pirzinia,.

1789.

6-4
+CAszs

ruled and adjudged in th

789-. ginia, is not fuch good evidence ai a fworn copy, compared with
L-,,..d the rolls, or an exemplification under the Great Seal; but thefe
modes of authentication are, likewife, inferior to the original law
itfelf. If the Plaintiff in Error had been fued in Virginia, tfis
printed book of the a&s of Affembly would there, unqueftionably,
bave been good evidence; and I can difcern no fatisfa&ory reafon,
why, as he is Irued here, the fame evidence fhould not be received,
t leaftprimafiacie; for, although it were a forgery, and the proof'
in that refpect, could not on a fudden, during the fhort period of
a trial, be produced ; yet, in'cafe of any reafonable fufpicion, the
Court might referve the point, and-give the party leave upon eftablifhing the fact, tomove for a new trial.
Lord Chief Juflice Apifiles fays, in the cofe of Omichundv. Barker,
i ftk. 2 1i.that " the rules of evidence are to be confidered, as pofifitive artificial rules, ftramed by men for their convenience in refpect

to the tranfa&ion of bufinefs in ihe'Courts of Juftice ;" but there
has been no rule eftablifhed, as far as my knowledge extends, concerning the evidence now under confideration. It has been a rule
in the Courts of Great-Britain,"to allow Such probf as they beyond the fea will allow." This, however, muff be fubje& to reltriaions, And, althogh the general principle and ruleot evidence
is, " that the befllevidence the nature'of the thing will admit, fhall
be given," yet, by conflant praffice and allowance of the Judges,
this rule is frequently difpenfed with. Were it not, indeed, for
this, 'controverfies in Courts of Juftice would be entangled with too
.many difficulties, and attended with too great trouble and expence, to permit men to feek for redrefs of many wrongs in a legal way. The fame reafon, that wofild induce this Court to require a law of Iirginiato be proved as any other fa&, mufl induce
ihem to infift tipon the like proof of the Laws of every other State,
kingdom, or empire, however remote; a.pofition pregnant with
intolerable inconvenience ; deftru&ive to trad7, commerce, and
credit; and, in feveral cafes, fatal to juflice.
Though the pradice of the Courts, or forms of pleadings,
which.pafsfubfilentio, do not make the law; yet, in a- cafe like
the prefent, a conflant pra&ice of permitting a6ls of Affembly, or
laws to be'read out of printed books, without oppofition, is a
great evidence of the law; and fuch printed copies, being of public
notoriety, and relied on as genuine, have the prefumption of authenticity, -in their favor, and afford a reafonable fatisfaflion to the
mind of their truth and accuracy.
Upon the whole, therefore, I am of opinion, that the Court
below erred in the rejeaion of the evidenc6 in queftion; and that
for this caufe 0nly, the judgment ought to be reverfed.
With refpQ& to the errors alledged againft the fecond record,
they have all, except one, been confidered and difallowed, in fhe
courfe of the preceding 6bfervations. The one that remains to
be decided is, that the .court below, on motion Qf the Counfel
for

SUPREME COURT of

Ptt}znnvania..

465

for the Plaintiffthere, permitted the declaration to be amended by
the writ, after the jury had been f~worn ; and then had the Jury
fworn again, and received their verdi6t, without confent, without giving the Dlendant liberty to plead anew, and without an
imparlance, or awarding the p.yment of coils yy the Plaint. In ftpport of this oojcffion, it has been urged, that the amendment was an alteration in flubitance, and changed the nature of
the defence; "thai there is no precedent of fuclh an aimendment aft r the Jury wa. I.vorn, thertfore, it is hoped, that this kuurt
will not enlar. e the.precedents or amendents, by making a new
one; aid that the Court below had no pover to difchatge the
jury a;ter forn, without confent; or,. if they had, that they
ought to have Prraatd an imparlance Stiles' Frat. Peg. 45. 49.
o'ik. 47- 3LI 347" Carth.4f5. 2 Back. Rep. 785. 2 Ytra. 89o.
Fitz. 193. a Rac. dbr 236. Gi.* PraR. C. 1". 79. 8o.
On the ozhoer fide, it was infifbed, that the amendment was ony to. make the dedaration conformable to the writ; that the merits came before the Jury, and the cauf'e was fairly tried ; and
that fuch an am.ndment m y be made at any time. '3 B!ack. Con,
4o6. Cwnyngb. Rep. 4.3. 2 Burr. 756. 5 Bifrr. 2834. 3 Lev.'347.
6ir T. Rayni. 53. 4 .8urr.2569. Cowp. 841. 1 1k71f. 7. 4 Bac.
-dhr-30.

r
173-.

."n

bnr.
d

332'j.

The Court would willingly fijpport this proceeding, if they.legally could; far, they are no friends to exceptions like the prefent,
w.here the merits have been fairly tried. But we can find no caf.*,
or opinioh, to favor it in all its parts. I have met with but one,
which mentions, ,that " after a Jury fworn, fometimes a juror is
withdrawn, on purpoft that there may be an aie.idmnTcnt, fl it be
not entered upon record " This care was not menticned at the
bar, but is reportedin. Comberbacb 419. Rex v. Edward.
Suppofe, however, that the Court had given the Plaintiff leave
td make the amendment before the trial, which they might unquetionably have done, as the nature ot the aaion was not thereby changed ; yet, it was in the ele~lion of the Defendant, either
to take coIls of the PlaintifF, or to impakrl to the next term; for,
lie had a right to advife upon a plea fitting the declaration fo
amended ; or, if th: amendment did not, in his opinion, require
an alteration of the plea, he might take rhe cofls, and enter the
fame plea immediely. At all events, I think, he ought to have
been allowcd, it' he pleafed, to plead again after the a-nendnient, and fojoin a new illhe. I LW/. A4br. 7o. d. 71. a. Cm.'. 5 8.
2 Stra. §5o. And I have found twvo cafes in Judge eins's,L ,uries, in which it is held, that a jury difcharged be-ore verdi6t,
fhall not be charged again, but there inuft be a new venirejacia .
'e.ik_ Cent. 6. ca. 9. Ibid. 283. ca. 13.
Since, then, the fa&s relating to the amendment appear upon
the record, I am of opinion, trat the proceeding of the Court
below was erroneous: And this judgment, alfo, ought, therefore,
to be reverfed.

N nn

ATLIA,

1789.

466
1789-

L7.

CAzEz ruled and adjudged in the

ATLEE, Yuftce:-In thefe two caufes of.7ohn 2'hompfon, Pltif.
in Error, v. 7hn .'ier,. I concur with THE CHIEF JUSTDCE in
every point except two.
One of thefe is the objection refpe&ing the Mirginiaa&, and the
other is the mis-trial. As to the firft, it feems, that the Juftices
below, on the trial of the caufe, refufed to admit in evidence, on
the part of *Thompfon, a printed papex, faid to be an ac of Affembly. of the State of Virginia, upon which a bill of exceptions was
filed ; and this is now afligned as one caufe of error.
Had that a& come before them exemplified under the. feal of
the State of Prginia,the Court ought certainly to have admitted
it, as it would then have been within the rule ot law, which requis the utmoft evidence the nature of the fa& is capable of; but,
;s it was offered to them without fuch exemplification, or any
proof of its bci:ag compared with th-4 records of that State, or even
of its being printed by the Printer of the Laws of the State, I cannot join in the opinion, that the Jufices below have erred in reje&ing it; or, that thcir having refufed to admit it in evidence in that
fituatiQn. is a fufficient caufe for the reverfal of their judgment. It
was -offered to prove a fa& refpc6ing a certain clafb of Pirginiacertificates; and from the face of it, I think it will appear, that it is
not the whore law of the State refpe&ing thofe certificates. Thi
might have been a reafon with the Court below for rejecting it,
and I fhould have thought it a fufficient one; for a recordbis not
to be taken by parcels, and the 'whole is evidence, or none.
We are to pay adue regard tothe laws of our Sifter States, when
we are under the neceflity of determining upon contra&s which
have.taken place within thofe Statei, and have reference to thofe
laws : but we are to be cautious, and not to fuffer ourfelves to be
impofed on. Exemplificationis are eafily obtained, and they are
not expenfive. We find that the Judges in England have generally had the precaution to require exemplifications of a&s of Parliament, which did not concern the kingdom in general, properly
compared and certified, before they would admit them in evidence
in their Courts of Juftice ; though made within the kingdom, they
do not deem themfelves obliged by their offices to take notice of
them without fuch exemplification. And fo, I think it is a proper
and neceffary precaution in the Courts here, to require certified
copies of the laws of our S;fter States, before they are admitted
with us; eflecially when they appear before us, as this did, in
pamphlets of a few fheets, not bound tip with their body of laws ;
and, as we are not obliged, and cannot be fuppofed, to know their
laws, it feems the more neceffary.
As to the mis-trial in one of the caufe. , it feems to me, that the
.parties themfelves, at the tipie of the trial, waved every advantrage that might have been taken of it. They permitted the amendment, and went on to trial without demanding an iinparlance ;
the merits of the caufe were fully heard i and, after the Jury left
the

SUPR;ME COURT of PennfytVania.

467

the bar, the Counfel on both fides agreed, by writing under their I789.
hands, that the verdi& fhould be taken by the Clerk of the Court L-q-d
agrecably to what fhould appear to be the intent of the Jury, and
that they would mould it into form. After this condu&, and
fuch proceed*ingq, I think the objecion ought not to be fupported.,
But, as my brethren think differently from me on thefe points,
the judgment in both caufes muff be reverfed.
RUSH, 7uflice:-There can be no doubt, that the laws of Vr-

ginia are evidence; but the queftion before the Court is, in what
manner fhall they be authenticated, in order to render them admiffible evidence to a Jury?
Upon e/fabliJhed rules of law, and, alfo, on general principles, I
am of opinion, that the Virginia a&, printed by the Government
Printer, ought to have been given in evidence to the Jury.
No evidence fhall be rgceived, which fuppofes a fill greater evidence behind, in the parties own poftion and power.

On this

ground, the printed at ought to have been laid before the Jury ;.
becaufe, it cannot be faid, that either the original, or a copy under
Jeal, was in hispofffon or power. Both might'have been refufed

.to.him at the office in Virginia; and this Court, having no controul
over that office, could not have giveh any relief. All laws fhould
be conftrued, as far as may be, fo as to guard a ainft what men
may do; and not to truft to what they will do.
Sir ff'illiam BlackJyone, in the third volume of his Commentaries,
page 336, fpeaking of the Court of Chancery, fays, " If a queftion
" comes before that Court, or a Court of Law, which is properly
the obje& of aforeign municipal law, they will both receive infor" mation what is the rule of the country, and will both decide
a"
ccordingly. Both Courts follow the Law of Nations, and colle& it from h~flory, and the moff approvedauthorsof all countries,
" where the queflion is the obje& of that la;i; as in the cafe of the
privileges of ambaffadors, hoftages, or ranforn bills. In mercan" tie tranfa&ions, they follow the marine law, and argue from the
ufages and authorities received in all countries." From this
language, it would feem, to be the opinion of the author, that
the fame evidence, which any Court abroad would have received,
would alfo be received in England,whe:e the fubjea in litigation
requires it.

If, then, the Virginia law might have been given inevidence in
that country, of which there can be no doubt; it was the duty of
the Court in Pennfylvania to have received information of the rule,
or law, of Virginia, from the fame fource that would have been fafisfa lory to the judges there. Every country has a right to promulgate its laws as it pleafes ; and whatever printed authorities are
received in a foreiyn country as evidence of its laws, are, in my
opinion, evidence of the fame laws to a Court and Jury in Penn.
fylvania.

465

7789.
L

CASES ruled and adjudged -in the

Ta the largerrecord, as- it vws called at the bar, to diftinguifh
it from the other, a fecond obj&&ion has been madc, touyit, that
the declaration does not fay, that the Defendant negT'&ed to pay
or deliver ioo.ooo weight of tobacco ; the declaration being on a
penal bill. With regard to this peint, I rather think that the verdil&will not cure the objeclion. The cafe in Cro. Car. 5t5.
B'aynes v. Brighton, feems to be in point. Debt was brought
for forty Ihillings; and the declaration was held ill after
vcrdit, becaufe the Plaintiff had not alledged, that the twenty
fhillings werc not paid at the day : for, otherwife, the forty fhillings were not due. I am induced to lay the more ftrefs on this
authority, beciufe the principle of that cafe is recognized both in
Daogias and Salkeld's reports. In Doug. 657. by a recent and folekrn decifion of the whole Court, it has been held, that if the indorfee does not prozve at the trial a detnand on the acceptor and refinfal, even a verdict, in fuch cafe, will not help him. The well
known cafe of omitting the Sciener is there admitcd to be law.
The cafe is erprefsly relcrred to as reported in Selk. 662. The declaration was, that the Defendant kept a bull that ufcd to ni at
men, but did not fayfrienter, &c. This was held ill alter verdi& ;
for the aaion does not lie, unlefs the maler knows of this qualiy; and the Court cannot intend it was proved at te trial,, as the

F intiff need not prove more than %%asin his declaration. So in
the cafe at bar: the Cvurt cannot intend that the Plaintiff proved
at the trial, that the Defendant did not pay, or deliver, ioo,ooo

weioht of tobacco; becaufe. not being alledged in. the declaration,
the Plaintiff was not under any neceffity of proving it.
Writh refpe& to the other obje&ions to the larger record, I
entirely concur with my Brethrcn.
I concur, alfo, that there has been a mis-trial in the other caufe
tried between the fame parties. Blark. Rep. 785. is in point. Where
the declaration is amended in a material point, a rule fiould be
given to plead. It the Plaintiff has a right to anend, hie is afio
Lound at the fame time to give a rule to plead, that the Defendant
may not be furprifed at the trial ; and, omitting to do fo, is error.
The Jury was 'fworn to try the piecife and identical ifruejoined
by the plendings; and if that was afterward altered or changed by
the Plaintiff, the verdi& wilR not help it; becaufe a verdict will
net help that which was nct i in e. Gilb. H.fl. and Prat7. Com.
.ieas. p. I co,
The Court below had no powcr to di fcharge the Jury after they
were fivorn, without the confent of both parties. It is true, that
ian 2 Sa. i iti. it appears, that a Jury was difmiffied after they
oere fvorn, becaufe no /iuewas joined. But as there was an iffue joined in the cauf ot A'Iualer and Yhompin, the Court below
have aa6ed erroneonfly, and contrary to Oaw, in difcharging the
Jury without the confent of both parties.
I think, upon the vhle, that judgment Should be ieverfed in
BRYA N,
both caufes.

469

SUFRFjME COURT Of Pennfyl1ania.

BRYAN, Jufice:-As I agree entirely in the,:pinions 7%:n by
has agried, I fall colthe Chief7ufice, Ior the realigns which lie

tent myfeltwith generally declacing, that I thindk the judgment,

orr thefe records ought both to be reverfed.
BY THE COUR T:-Let the judgments of the Court below, on

both records, be fertafide.
RESPUBLICA verfus

T

Negro

BETSEY,

et al.

HIS was a Habeas Corpus ad fibjic.end,,n, which had been

:illowed by Mr. juf.iceBRYAN,, and, afterwcards, brought by
him before the Court. The cafe was twice argued ; firlt on the
29th of )une 1786, by Bradord, on behalf of Samuel .1oJre, who
claimed the negroesas his fervants, and by Lewis, in behalf of the
negroes ;-and a fecond time, in April term r7o. by the fame counfel lor the claimant, and by Ingerhil and F7,I/her for the dendants.
The Court havit!g heldthe matterunder atd'ifement till the prefent
tarm, the Judges delivered their opinions feparately, in thefollowing.order; the Chief juflfice flating the circum-(tances of the caf,
couriof his obfervations.
and the arguments of the Counfel, in tire
IE
AIN, C'hi1fVjuflice:-The negro Bey'y, for whom the Haheas Csrpus idiied (and upon whofe fate, that of the two other ne-.
xTS, tj w:t,
zA-rc,
groes dtpends) was born before the ziiof
in the year 1779. and her name, age, fe.; &z. were nor re,,iffered
in the office of z.e Clerk of the Peace of the county ofr,

in

which the mafter, Samuel eAr'f2re, then inhabited, on, or before,
r
178o, agreeably to the direeions of the acof
the irtoft .Mvetber,
Admbly, entitled, " An at for the gradual abolitioti of Slavery,"
palled on the it of ;Mrch, 78o. See 2 Sate Laws 282.
The queftion, that is fibmifed to our conlideration upon thefe
faas- is, whetherthe negro can be held as a fervant nntil fheattains
t!e age of twent' e;--ht xcars? or, whether fhe is ':!:dl fr-c ?
On the part of the ma;ter, it hai been argued, that, although
by the fi.-th and tc:'h 1.dftions of the at of Alrembly, the owner,
or mailer, of any negro, or. -ulatto, fl-ve, or fzrvan for life, or
for thirty one yeirs, then within t:, State, ar hhi lawful atorney;
ought to caufe fuchi negro, or mulatto, to be regillered on, or belore, "the Ilt day of i't.ve-m-r 78o; yet, by the fmurth fcdion, it
is provided, that every nearo, or mulatto child, born within t1s
State, after the pafling of the a&, who, io caf'e the a,'I had not
paiFed, would have been born a fervant for thirty one years, for^
age of t.;%ety
life, or a flave, thould be deermed a fervant until tire
eight years. It was urged all'b, that the Legiflature could not intend a greater favor to negroes and mul:ittoes, born as flaves, or
fervants for life, or until the age of thirtyone years, befre the par:ing of that a&, than to thole Dorn at!.r; that the itdtt;ti:tz of the
Legillature is to govern in the confli udtion of this -a&, which, a'
W'Cij

1789-

