452.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

2d. With refpet to the feconpoint, the A& of Affen'bly," as to
t 7 29 .
L-4v-). the appointment of auditors, is merely' dire&ory; and continuances
are matters of mere form, which may be entered at any time; fo
that the Court will even prefume it to have been done. 2-Har. C.
P. 3i2. L Stra. 139. 2 Barn, Not. r72. I Sira. 136. i Sid.
53. 6o.--See 18 Vin; tit. Purchafor. Preced. in Chan. 478. Schlr
vs. Lejher ant. 41 .
Lewis, in reply, fill urged, that the A&s for docketing Judgments, and recording Deeds, were only made in favor of purchafors;
and although, generally fpeaking, every man who does not take by
ddcent, is called in law, a purchafor, he'contended, that the ojje& of
thofe a6ts was not of that general import, but merely to fecire perfons who had paid an a&ual and immediate confideration for the
premnifes, and not to aid thofe who, by pfocefs of law, were endeaVouring to recover an atitecedent debt, which was the cafe in a domeflicattachment. The attachment when levied is binding betwecrt
the-parties; but it does not afFe& the legal relation of a Judgment
ob.tained by another'perfon; and the cafe cited from Co."B.L. is
that of in execution taken out, but not levied. See Prec. in (,han.

478.

With refpe& to the omiflion of continuances, he anfwered, that
itthere wag any thing to enter them from, and day has been given
to the Defendant from time to time, then the do&rine and authorities of the adverfe Counfel would apply. But, he infifted, that.
-Where day was given to the Defendant, and, afterwards, nothing
Was done in the caufe, the contihuances could not be arbitrarily
entered in the manner fuggafed by the Defendant's Counfel.
After confideration,

THE CHIEFr JUSTICE

delivered the op,-.ion

of the Court, in which he declared, that he and his brethren were
unanimoufly of opinion with the Plaintiff, on the cafe fated ; and
dire6ted Judgment to be entered accordingly.
Judgment for the Plaintiff,'

PRIMER,

E

Plaintiff in Err. verfus

KUHN.

R-ROR from the Common Pleasof PhiladelphiaCounty. On the
trial of the caufe below, (See ant. 226) a bill ot exceptions
"cheCourt in the following words:
to the leopinion
-aas
."- taken
refpafsfYur
Cafe, inof the
Conmnn Pleas,PhiladelphiaCounty:
• And now the 6th day of February 1788, upon the trial of this
, caufe, the Council for the Defendant, ufider the Pleas of Non df"fitmpfit, payment, and defalcation, and, in order to maintain the
fame ifflue, offered to give in evidence a certain bond, or obliga:'tion, of the faid Ludwig Kuhn (prout obligation) affigned (prout
affignment) entered into by the faid Plaintiff, before his difcharge
undpr the ljpfolvent A&, 4nd prkyed, that the monies thereon
" due

SUPR-EME COURT of PennflVania;

453

" de might be defalked againft the faid Ludwi, Kuhn's demand,
" which it was argued, had commenced after his faid difcharge.
" To this the Counfel for the Plaintiffobjeded, and prayed the
" Court not to admit the fame obligation and aflignment thereof in
" evidence ; to which the Court afrented, and overr-ruled the tef- timony. Whereupon the faid Counfel for the dcfendant, did,
" then and there, on behalf ofthe faid defendant, except to'the raid
" opinion of the Court, and did then and there requeft of the faid
I Court to put their feals to this bill of exceptions, which was
" granted accordingly."
To the bill of exceptions a memorandum was fubjoined by tht
Counfel, on both fides, flating, that the Plaintiff below had notice
of the bond nd alngnment before the fuit brought, but not before
the fale and dclivery of the goods by him to the defendant.
The refufal of the Court of Cormmn Pleas to permit the bond arid
affignment, to be given in evidence, was. the error now alledged;
and, on the 26th of September, the cafe was argied by Levy, for the
Plaintiff in Error, and .Seygeant, for the defendant:
Levy. Before the ads of affembly are particularly examined, it
may be proper to conlider fome of the inconveniencies that exiftedi
in fuch cafes, at common law. Goods delivered in part might, perhaps, be. given in evidence in an adion of Affumpftt, by way of mitigatinr the damages, but not under a plea ot paymcnt to a fpecialty'
nor could the defendant difcounr any note, bill, bond, recognizance,
or judgment.entered into by, .or obtained againft, the Plaintiff. This
ncceflhrily multiplied fuits and cofis; and, it often happen.ed, that
a Plaintiff, in defDerate circomflances, recovered againti a defendant to whom he was, in fat, indebted in a greater firm. If, indeed, by accidental circumflances, his adion was brought to a wnclufloh, earlier than the defendant's crofs adion, he might receive
the money, and for his larger debt, become utterly infolvent, by the
time the defendant had obtained ajudgment.
Inconveniencies of this kind have been perceived by the Legiflature, or judicial power, of the moft enlightened nations, and a
remedy, in a grcater or lefs degree, provided. See Lord Kahn. Prin.
of Eq. 201. -. 3- 4-:
5. and, in EnJign.d, even before the itatutesk had
given relief in the Courts of Common Law, the Courts of Equity
endeavonrecdto provide for fuch cafes. Sh3.w Ca. in Parl. 1. 1 kern.
2P. fil1.128.
121. 2. 2Fern. 428. 9. Cafe 390.
In Penn)ylvania there are two Ads of Almbly that treat of this
fibjed. i State Laws 48. and Ibid. I65. It is obfervable that
the firft general provifion by the former adl, paired in i7o;, was
twenty-two years previous to the firtl:
general provi-ion of the
fame nature in England, which was not till the -2 Gco. 2. C. 22.fe .
13. The latter Ad.of Affembly, however, is copied, amof verbatim, from the AGeo. 2. c. 2. and is poflerior in point of time.
Thefe two Ads of Atlfmbly, made in "ari niat~r.:a, are, then, to
be confidered as remedial laws, and mudl receive a-liberal conltruction:

7

.

-p--.

454
1789.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

tion : And, as they declare, that where two are indebted to each
other, they may fet off their demands, it only remains to invelligate
the cbje&ions which are urged againft the detalcati6n contended
for, on behalf of the Plaintiff in error.
The Plaintiff below, in effe&, fays, that he has obtained the benefit of the infolvent aEf ; and, if he is rompelled to pay, or allow,
this bond in difcount, his property is taken away to pay his old
debts. This is true ; but, it is to be anfwered, by remarking, that
the very infclvent a&, on which he relies for the prote&ion of his
perfon, makes his future effecs liable for debts preceding his difcharge; and herein confifis the well known diftinaion between
bankruptcy and infolvency. See i StateLaws 164. fe1t. 7.7enk. Cent.
-256. Caft 49, This was the condition upon which he obtained his
liberty; and, having obtained it, Ihall he be thus allowed to evade
the condition ? As, upon an execution agami.him, his effe&s would
be liable, it can make no odds to him, in point of juftice, whether
his creditor obtains plyment by a crofs fuit, or by defalcation. By
the former mode, indeed, he-might have an opportunity of fecreting
his effe6ts the moment that they were recovered in theaction brought
by him, and thus prevent his creditorirom deriving any benefit by a
fubfequent judgment and execution. Such practices, however, have
been too frequent to efcape notice, and are too flagrant to be countenanced and fupported in a Court of Law. Befides, the right of
fet-off is far more material againif an infolvent debtor than any other
perfon; for, it is contrary to confcience that he fhould recover againft
thofe to whom he is, in truth, indebted in an equal, or larger fum.
2 P. IPill. 1-29.
But, the Plaintiff below may alfo urge, that the Plaintiff in Error
is an affignte u.th whom he never dealt. See T-State Laws 48. and,
endeavour to eflablifh an analogy between his cafe, and that of 'a
'debt due to a man in right of his wife, which can not b fet off in
an a&ion againft the hufband on his own bahd. Bull. N. P. 179.
The reafon, however, is effentially different. What is due to a hufband in right of his wife, he muft fue for in the name of himfelf and
t;ife; and, as difcdunt is in the nature of a fuit, to permit the fetoff in the cafe alluded to, would be adding a party to the fuit, that
*is the wife, who was not named in the writ. Befides, debts Jue to
the Wife are not abfolutely vefted in the hufband ; for, if he does not
reduce them into poffeffion, -they furvive to her, and do not go to his
executors.
But the fecond Aa of Afiembly, does; not fay any thing with refpect to the party's dealingtogetber ; and even ifthere were any force
in an objection grounded on thofe words, the anfwer would be eafy;
that the afflignee of a negotiable, or af/ignable infirument, is as much
contraqed with by the words of the obligation, "and his afqns,"
as the original obligee; and, under the A& of Affembly he is equally
the "creditor" of the obligor. See x State Laws 165 .
which

SUPREME COURT. of Pennfylvania.

455

To illufrate this argument, fuppQfe that C gives his bond to D, 1789which D affigns to A: A gives his bond to E, which E affigns to C.
A then fues C. They are both aflignees: What motive of policy,
-v6 hat principle of conflruaion, could in this cafe, preclude a difcount ? It is the obje& of law to put an end to firifes ; and the
Courts of juffice are ever anxious to prevent anunneceffary circoity
ofaffion. Under the ifatute of 2 Geo. 2. which is in the fame Word.1
with the aas of Penn.lvania, the Judges of England have permitted
an indorfement after the fuit brought to be difcounted; the praife
requiring only that it fhall be proved to have beei made "btforeplea
.pleaded." Cromp. Prao.16i. And the cafe in 2 Strange 1 S34, makes
no queflion, whether an affign'ee may difcount, but merely turns
upon the time of indorfement.
The objetion, that the allowance of fuch accounts would be the,
means of preventing infolvent debtors from obtaining a fubfiflance,
goes much too deep : it is confidering inconveniencies arifing on a
que ion which clear and pofitive law has determined ; for, the A&
of Afflembly fays that the future effe&s of an infolvent debtor fhalt
be liable to the payment of his old debts ; and the Judges of the
Courts of Common Law have extended the principle of difcount,
by a mofi bberal equity, far beyond the words of the flatute in Eng-:
land. 2 BL. Rep. 8669.
Sergeant, for the Defendant in Et ror, contended, that the attempt
to pay for goods, by the bond of an infoWvent debtor, purchafed at

five fhillings in the pound, or, perhaps obtained without atny confidetation, was in itfeif an a6l againtl confciene; that no cafe could
be the wn of a difcount allowed upon an indorfement made after the
adion brought ; for, Cromp. 16i. isnot a fufficient authority ; that
the rule of retaining, where there are mutual debts, did not'apply ;
and that a fet off muff be of a demand in the Defendants own right.
He cited 8 f'! . 557. B.'-. (Debt) pl 172. Ibid. (Condition) p1. 1 1.
S. : I State Laws 48. 3 Black. 304. 2 Geo. 2. c.22. 8 Geo. 2.
c. 24. Bull. A. P. 179.
On the 3' of Oc7ber THE CHIEF JUSTICE, -after flating the
cafe, delivered the opinion of the Court to the following cffe& :
MIKEAN, Ctef Yi/iice. As a difcharge under the infolvent
laws, .%
hile it exempts the perfon from future moleflation leaves.
the effects of the Deiendant for ever liable to the demands of his creditors, the difcharge obtained by the Defendant in Error, Lan have
n1o operation in the decifion of this caufe.
A que'ion has bccn made, whether the Plaintiff in Error might
ha% e defalked his bond under the En-,ifl flatutes ; the fira of which
takes.notice of mutual debts, &c. The Judges there wvere, indeed,
of opinion, that only debts of the fame dignity could be fet off; but
for this, I can difcover no good and fatisfa6tory reafon ; and. a remedy was afterwards provided by a fublequent flatute, which declares, that dcbts ofdiffeent natures may be defalkied.
The true ground, however, for the decifion of this caufe, arifes
from the conthualion of the feveral A61s of Alkmbly for the relief
of

45611789.
L-V ..

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

of infolvent debtors, for the afligning of bohds, and for.defalcation:
And the laft of thefe A&s fays, that " if two or more, dealing togsther (which words are not to be found in either of the Engl h fta" tute) -bb indebted to each other upon bonds, &c." when an 2ction is commenced, the Defendant may plead payment, and give his
bond, &c. in evidence againrf the Plaintiff's demand.
If then, the obligee could have defalked the bond in queftion, (of
v*hith, we think, no doubt can reafonably be entertained) and he
has legally affigned all his right and interefi in it to the Pliintiff in
Error, why fhould not the affignee be entitled to the fame adrantage,
fince the A& for the aflignment of bonds has placed him on the
fame footing.?
Ther6 is another cIaufe in the Defalcation A&, which prgvides,
that where a.Plaintiff and Defendant have accounts to produce one
againrf another, they may refer them, and the report of the referrees
hall have the effe& of a verdi6L: Now, although the words are confined tothe cafe of accounts, yet the conftruaion of the A& has liberally extended the right and benefit of fuch : refe rrence, to every
cthcr caufe of a&ion.
. For the fake of Juftice, and to prevent an odious multiplication
of fuits, we think, that the fame liberality fhould be exercifed in the
cafe before us; and are unaitirnoufiy of opinion, that the Judgment
of the Court below ought to be "reverkd.
Judgment reverfed.

GR~vE et.. al. Admors, vefus HARRIS.

T

HIS Caufe came before the Court on a cafe flated, .which was,
his
in fubftance, as follows :-The inteftate, .7ehn Graeme, in"
life time, to wit, in December term 1772, obtained a Judgment againfi the Defendant, in a plea of debt, in the County Court of
Common Pleas of Philadelphia. He afterwards died, being refident
at the time of his death in Great-Britain,of which kingdom he was
a fubje&. Upon his deceafe, the Plaintiffs obtained Letters of Adminiftration from the Archbifhop of York, in the faid kingdom,
which bore date the 25 th of June 1784 ; but to this a6lion, which
Was afcirefacias to revive th'e above-mentioned Judgment, the Defendant pleaded, that the Plaintiffs never were Adminifirators: Iffue
was thereupon joined ; and this queftion filbmitted to the opinion of the Court, whether under the authority of the Letters of
Adminiftration granted by the Archbifhop of 2ork, the Plaintiffi
could maintain the prefent adion ?
The point was argued on the 26th of September, by Rawle, fer the
Plaintiffs, and by Sergeant and Swift for tie Defendant.
Rawle relied on the A& of Affembly, which declares, that Letters
of Admyjiniftration granted out of t'he Province were fufficient ior the
purpofc

