267

SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvania.

caufe, the Court had not relied merely on the cafes decided here,
but on all thecafes which had been decided upon the fubje&l, in all
the Courts of .England. Thefe cafes, although he had before gene,
rally refered to ihem, he now thought proper to mention particularly, that every doubt upon the queltion might be finally removed.
In the Common Pleas, for money owing for goods fold and delivered,
no intereft fhall be allowed. i Barnes Notes . 57" 3 Wi/fan 206.
Praa7. Reg. Corn. P1.357- In the King's Bench, interell refufed
upon an inland bill of exchange after acceptance, where no protell ;
and the Court there faid, that it had never been allowed barely for
moneylent, without a note. Harrisv. Benfon. 23tr2. 91o. In
the Court of Chancery, intereft was not allowed on book and fimple
Pritman.
contraa debts &c. 3 Rep. Chan. 64. D.-hnan ,Y.
"Thus the concurrent pra6lice of all the Courts in England, has
in thefe cafes difallowed the charge of intereft; and the prattce of
Pennfylvania, has been regulated by the fame principles. It is not,
indeed, more than four years, fince in this State, on the other fide of
the .$ufquehanna, the Juries have been induced to allow intereft, 0yen upon notes of hand."
WILLIAMIS

vefus G HO

rGAN.

MOYLfi, in fhewing caufe againfl a rule for a Special Court, at
the inlance of the Plaintiff, contended, fir#, that 1illiams was
not within the defcription of the perfons for whom the a& provides a
fumnary relief; and,fecondy, that the difficulty of obtaining the Defendant's teftimony at a fhort notice, wasa fufficient reafon to induce
the Court to difcharge the rule.
On theflrfl poinr, it was flated, that J'1lliams was not in lm&ira
at the time when the debt was contra&ed, for which this adqion was
brought; but that he came hither merely to colle6l the debts of a
lioufe, in which he had formerly been a partner; that, therefore, he
could not claim the benefit of the act, which, it was urged, extended only to lbreigners, who came to this country in the way of
trade, who refided here 'hile their merchandize was fbld, and who
were not punfually paid at the expiration of the credit which they
gave. 3 St. Laws. 3r. Lewis v. Turner in the Cimmon Pleas of
Philadelphia, was cited. The Plaintiff in that cafe was a refident
of ANew-lork, and came to Philadelphiamerely to fluc, and recover
from the Defendant. The Court determined .hat he was not entitled
to a Special Court; and Sl.ippE, Pr~qdent, faid, that acitizen of
the United States was not a foreigner in tFennfyivania.
On thbfecond point, it was obferved, thlat the Defendant being
fued as fuper-cargo, it would be incumlbent on him to ftate all the
acccunts ofthe veifel in qudlion ; t. at he was at this time i n Ckarlejon, South-Carolina, having in his poffeflion all the documents and
vouchers neceffary to his defence ; that h had always expretl~d a
determination to attend the trial of the c,:ufe, and that rb-tbfencei
L12
1L

,88.

A68

ruled and adjudged in the
sCAsIs

-7 8. could not be long protra6led, as the fpecial bail had fent a bail-piece
Sand power of attorney to take'the Defendant, and furrender him in
this Court.
&.ulthurfl,for the Plaintiff, laid, that the debt was contracted in
Philadehia, and was there due and payable from the Defendant to
the Plaintiff; that Williams came hither to pay the debts of the
comnpany, as well as to colle& their credits; that he was a foreigner,
in the firongefi meaning of the word, and, confequently, could not
be affeted by the cafe of Lewis v. urner, which was decided on
the ground of the party's being a citizen.
Writh refpe6L to the accounts, he endeavoured to fhew, from the
caufe of a6ion, that they could.not be material to the defence on
this occafinn ; and contended, that the Defendant's abfence was no
reafon to defeat the Plaintiff's claim to the benefit of the a&.
M'KEAN, Chief 7uqice.-The at fetus to be intended for the
benefit -of every man, whether an inhabitant, or a foreigner, who is
about to leave the State ; and the Plaintiff is clearly within the defcription of perfons entitled to a Special Court. But, we think, for
the fecond reafon which has been urged by the Detendant's'counlel,
that it would be doing manifeft injlftice to hurry the trial on at this
•time : Therefore,
By THE Coua" : Let the rule be difcharged.
GUTHRIE

Affignee

verfus

WHITE.

Ccrticrarlwasiffluedto '7ohn Cuiltrtfon Efq; one 'f theJuflicis for
the county of Ch2fler, to remove the proceedings in this caufe;
and the record being accordingly returned, it appeared that one Zrwin, having maintained the Defendant's daughtei for feveral weeks,
made out an account againft him, and, after Iwearirg to the truth
and juftice of its contents, he afigned all his right, title, and intereft therein to the Plaintiff. The debt being under ten pounds,
the Plaintiff, in his swn rame, fued the father before the Juflice upon
this affignment, and obtained a judgment asd execution againf
him; although, as it was flated in the Defendant's depofitien, his
daughter was offull aye at the tima of contrading the dtbt, and ne
affumption, upon his part, had been proved or luggefted.
Bradftrdmoved to reverfe the Judgment; "ft, on account of the
gehetal irregularity of the proceedings ; and 2dly, becaufe an aftioa
could not be maintained; by the affigrce of a fimple contra6t debt,
in'his cwn name.
TW- CoU.RT confidered the whole proceedings to have been- irregular ; but fa;d, tlat there could be no doubt of the fuff.ciency of
theficcndrcafon alone, a%a ground fcr ftttir.g them afide, And the
.Judgment , as accordingly reverfed. .
A

T i,-

rR

