SUPREE COURT of Pennfyfvanza.

CHAPMAN

261

verfus SIPEINMETZ.

'rHIS

was an a&ion brcught upon a bill of exchange drawn -by
-A- the Defendant in favor of the Plaintii,
.and by him indorfed
in blank ; and a count for money had and rec'eived &c" was added
in the declaration. The bill being returned protefled, a quelhon
arofe,whether the Plaintiff was eniitled to recover twentyper centunt
damages ?
The Defendant contended that the damages ought not to be a!lowed, becaufe the bill was neither paid, nor accepted, in fatisfaclion of the debt for which it was drawn*; and to prove this a receipt was produced from the Plaintiff in the following words:
"Received i ft of Sept. 1784 of Mr. "7n. Sleinmetz a fet of Bills dated
"the 3oth Auguft lail on 7ohn Buley and Co. of ij/bon for k4.478.
17. 7. Sterling,. which whenpaid will be in full for the balance of
"account due to the Eflate of the late JTm. Neate of Lrndon deceafed."
BY THE COUPT.-It is. clear that the bill was netherpaid nor

received infatisfallion of the precedent debt, but upon the condition
of its being honored: it has not been honored ; confequently, the
parties are in the fame fituation, as if it had never been drawn; and
the Plaintiff (who was, in fa&, agent for-the drawer, and to receive
"themoney as his fervant) cannot be entitled to recover damages..
See i Shower 163. Dehrs and al. v. Harri!. The fame point was
determined in ifrat'fs vs. 'i1ling, tried the laft term'Upon this opinion, Judgment was entered, by agreement of the
parties, for the principal of the original debt, and interetl from the
time that the accounts between them were liquidated.
_ ilcocks for the Plaintiff. I.gerj.i for the Defendant,

PHELP'S et- al. verfus HOLKER et al.
A

FOREIGN attachment iffued" in Hanbhitrr-county, in the
State ot Majfachuftts, againft the Defendants, to which the
Sneriff made return, that "he had attached one Blanket. fhewn to
him as the rjuted property of the Defendants ;" and no appearance
being entered, Judgment was given for the Plaintiff at the fecond
Term. An aahon of debt was afterwards brought here, upon this
Judgment, and -a quelt on flated for the opinion of the Court,-to
wit, "whethier the Judgment was conclufive evidence of the debt.
Ingerfoll, for the Plaintiff.-An aaion of debt lies upon _oreign
Judgments; though, it is true, they are only primafacie evidence
of the debt, and may be-enquired into. Dour. I. But the judgment,. vpon which the prcfent a&ion is brought, cannot be confidered
as aforeign Judgment, for, it is the record of a Court of one of the
States ot the Union, and, as fLch, it is entitled tofulil h andcredit in each of theth. _drt.-of Confed. art. 4.
Bowi;, .for the Defendant-Judgments given in one State, are
not made obligatory upon the Courts of another, by the Articles oi
Confederation; which only provide, that, in matters of evidence,
mutuai

178g.

