A68

ruled and adjudged in the
sCAsIs

-7 8. could not be long protra6led, as the fpecial bail had fent a bail-piece
Sand power of attorney to take'the Defendant, and furrender him in
this Court.
&.ulthurfl,for the Plaintiff, laid, that the debt was contracted in
Philadehia, and was there due and payable from the Defendant to
the Plaintiff; that Williams came hither to pay the debts of the
comnpany, as well as to colle& their credits; that he was a foreigner,
in the firongefi meaning of the word, and, confequently, could not
be affeted by the cafe of Lewis v. urner, which was decided on
the ground of the party's being a citizen.
Writh refpe6L to the accounts, he endeavoured to fhew, from the
caufe of a6ion, that they could.not be material to the defence on
this occafinn ; and contended, that the Defendant's abfence was no
reafon to defeat the Plaintiff's claim to the benefit of the a&.
M'KEAN, Chief 7uqice.-The at fetus to be intended for the
benefit -of every man, whether an inhabitant, or a foreigner, who is
about to leave the State ; and the Plaintiff is clearly within the defcription of perfons entitled to a Special Court. But, we think, for
the fecond reafon which has been urged by the Detendant's'counlel,
that it would be doing manifeft injlftice to hurry the trial on at this
•time : Therefore,
By THE Coua" : Let the rule be difcharged.
GUTHRIE

Affignee

verfus

WHITE.

Ccrticrarlwasiffluedto '7ohn Cuiltrtfon Efq; one 'f theJuflicis for
the county of Ch2fler, to remove the proceedings in this caufe;
and the record being accordingly returned, it appeared that one Zrwin, having maintained the Defendant's daughtei for feveral weeks,
made out an account againft him, and, after Iwearirg to the truth
and juftice of its contents, he afigned all his right, title, and intereft therein to the Plaintiff. The debt being under ten pounds,
the Plaintiff, in his swn rame, fued the father before the Juflice upon
this affignment, and obtained a judgment asd execution againf
him; although, as it was flated in the Defendant's depofitien, his
daughter was offull aye at the tima of contrading the dtbt, and ne
affumption, upon his part, had been proved or luggefted.
Bradftrdmoved to reverfe the Judgment; "ft, on account of the
gehetal irregularity of the proceedings ; and 2dly, becaufe an aftioa
could not be maintained; by the affigrce of a fimple contra6t debt,
in'his cwn name.
TW- CoU.RT confidered the whole proceedings to have been- irregular ; but fa;d, tlat there could be no doubt of the fuff.ciency of
theficcndrcafon alone, a%a ground fcr ftttir.g them afide, And the
.Judgment , as accordingly reverfed. .
A

T i,-

rR

