-gCASES
1776,

ruled and adjudged in the

tt has been faid, that it is the obligor's fault not to have the pay-i
indorfed on the bond ; but it is not in his power, for the moneF
muft be paid before he is entitled to a receipt; and then, if tho
pbligee is a bad -man, he may refufe to indorfe it.
We are, therefore dearly of opinion, that an affignee takes the
bond at his own peril; nd that he ftands in the fame place as tho
obligee, fo as to let in every defalcation which the obligor had
ngainil the oblig
at the time of the aiirnnienr, or notice of the
affignmenf. The only intent of the a&t bing to enable the affignee
to fue in his own name, and prevent the obligee from releafing
after 2flignment.
Judgmept for the Defendani.

Srn--ent

Townfi ip of FALLOWFIELD verfus Townihip of
MARLBOROUGH.

O

N Cerfiorari to Cheatr, to remove an order 'ald judgment of
feflons, for the removal of 7ames -leany.
Exceptions taken to the proceedings below--:-That it did not appear
the pauper had been examined ; nor was any reafon fet forth why hd
was not: That naturaljuffice required he Ihould be heard before he
was removed. And the following cafes were cited :-2 Salk. 488. to
fhew theexamination muft be by two Juflices.-2 Sira. 1092. S. P.

And. 238-

S&et. Cas. c, ?8.

But it wadanfwered: ift. That it was not neceffary that-the exaruination fhould appear 'on the face of the order. Juftices are not
obliged to fet forth evidence, or every little circumftance; that when
nothing is fet forth which appears to he wrong, the Court will
make an intendment in favour of their order. An order to a comInon intent good. 1 Stra. 211. That it is not neceffary to fet
forth the fumrnmos and exainination of the party.- Sra. 474. 630.
2i,. 2d. Lord Ray. 1406.
2d. That even if it was necelfhry, there are ,words in the order
equivhlent, viz, on due c,idration, which -implies due examination-3 Burn. S.ef. Cas. Alfo the words due propf. Alfo the words
on the examingtion of Samndl Heany "1 as efherwife."
That in the cafes from Sa~k~s 'there appeared a defec& of examination on the ord"r, it having been taken by one Juftice inflead of
two.

BY THE CoURT.-No cafe can be fhewn, where an order wa&
deemed bad, becaufe the examination did not appear on the face of
tl order.
Comb .474. is a book of no great authority, and this cafe is contradi&ed by many others.-We are of opinion that it is not neceffary
that an examination -fhould appear on the face of the order; nor isit necefifary that the examination of any perfon flould, be fet forth.
'If any pauper was in:,-ed by a removal, the remedy ngrithad
be

SUPREME COURT of

Ptnfylvayn'a,

29
x776.

had he're, on information; and,. though it will nof reftore him, yet
he might have complained to the feflons, where every thing was
open.
The order of Seffions. confirmed, with cofis.

K PPELE verfus WILLIAMS.

A

Ygre had iffued, and the jury was fummoned: the Plaintiff for-

bade the Sheriff to bring the Jury to the Court.-On the day
of trial,,the Plaintiff's Attorney demanded the Vtnire.-Defenidant's
Attorney oppofed it, and advifed the Sheriff to deliver it into Court.
The Jury alfo attended upon the application of Defendant's Attorney. The Court was then moved for their direiaion.
They ttok the Aenire and called for the pannell.-The CHIEF
JusTIcE quoting the following authorities, to fhew, that itwould be a contempt to pocket the Venir.-Comb. 63-, 4 A4d,
367. kMn. fir. T.!2Yra1329.
The Plaintiff then moved to continue the caufe which was al.
lowed, Defendant having no provifo rule.
Defendant then moved for a provifo rule, to which Plaintiff oh-.
jft d, and made affidavit of the abfence of a material witncfii z4
fervice of a fubpona, on which the motion dropt,

H E RE

