SUPRKME COURT of Pennaylvania.

ufual courfe, havhig taken out the firft writ, and delivered ft as
oon as was ufual, his writ fhould take preference; and the Cvurt
accordingly order the return to be m.tde oAi the Habeas Copus.

WHEELER

Affignee of Baynton'verf. HUGHES EX.

T.OHN HUGHES, the 16th of. Fbruary 1763, gave his beed

to .,btn Bayntn, conditioned for the payment of one thou fnd
pounds. On the 3 d September, x764, J hn Baynton and Sainu4
IP7aTrton, became bound jointly and feverally, to 7ohn Hughes ir a
bond conditioned for the payment of fix hundred and eight pounds
fifteen fhillings. 0n the 8th of Aay 1765, 7ohn Bayntcn, afligned
the one thouland pound bond to the plaintiff, Ann ifheeer, for a
juR debt, Ihe being ignorant of any dealing, between Hughes an.d
Baynton. This aaion was brought on the affigned.bond ; the defendint pleaded payment, and offerd in evidence the bond dated in
September, in bar of the plaintiff's recovery. To this the council
f6r the plaintiff obje&ed, and this day, viz. 23 d April, the caufe
came on to be argued.
The Council for the Plaintiffcontended, that by the * & of affembly, bonds, bills and notes were negotiable, as promifforv notes
in England under the 3 and 4 Ann. cap. 9 ; that negotiability imported a currency from hand to hand ;. that this a61 of affembly was
formed on the plan of the flatute, in many places ufing the fame
words, and being made for the fime purpofe, viz. to encuragctrae:
and onterce, which could only be effeed by fich a conftru&ion,
as that an afligned bond Ihould have a currency, from Hand to hand,
and that the poffeffor fhould recover, independent of any contradts
or dealings between the obligor and obligee; that the claufe in the
a& of affembly, " Should commence and profecute his, her, or their
a&ions at law, for the recovery of the money mentioned in fuch
" bonds or notes, or fo" much thereof, as thadl appear to be due at
" the timeof fuclr affignment," meant as lhll appear on the face.
of the inftrument itfelf-That, for this reafon, the obligor lhould
either guard, in making the contra&, by leaving out the negotiablewords', or fhouldget his payments indorfed on the bonds; that the"
words, " Tor recover as the'perfon or perfons to whom the fame
was or were made payable," only referred to the mode of recovery,
where the allignee brought his aaion in his own name, as he might
ufider this a&t; that any 9ther conftru6ion would defeat the intention of the a&, which was to ericou r e trade and commerce; but
if the aflignee was to take the bond fubje& to the dealing between
the obligor and abligee, there was an end of this fpzcics of'traffick, as
no one would ever take an a ligned bond in the courle of trade, or in
any other cafe,but of a doubtfil or defpeiate debt.
To fhew that a third perfon, coming in konaJfiee, and for a valuable
onfideration, would be in a better fituation than his vehdor, the.
'

Gv. X. e. 8. See r Stts Laws. 77.

following

. CAsEs"reled and adjbidgea in iht
X*
?776-. . lldwing cafes were pited; I Sider~n. x-3 ...A made a feotieit

to B. by covini. B. m.kes a feoffment to D. for a valudble confide,
ratidn and onafide. The firft feoffor enters and makes a feoff'meiit
for a valuable confideration--The fcoffite of the firit teoffee fhall re.
taifi the land. Crt jac. 32. Debt bn obligation for two hundred pounds;
Defendant pleads, tb ft tute of ifury, and fhews that he was in.,
deb~ed to one Aider in one hundred pounds, and agreed with him thai
khe ,hould.forbear him for d yehr in confidekitioxi of thiity pbuhds, and
thai he fhould make a beind to Ader for th. payrmeni. of thirt
pot~nds, and for paymentof one. hundred o.un. .,.Tbat then he areA
.21&r entered into the bond fo t,iwn hundred bobnas.. The plaintiff
replied that ib9cwas jufily indebted to him. in one hundred pounds.'
an'W for payment theieofentered ihto this bon d,that-he was not knowing
f6 hnycorrupt agreement between .thie.defendant ind Aider.

The

Court determiihed iiviavour of the plaintiff upon his being a fair and in-,
nocent creditor.-7-T9 .Jhew that promitfory notes in .Enzand,are noi
fubjet to any ditcount or fett off, bztweein tbe .r6mijfor and pro.
mifee, the following cafes were quoted. z Salk.7 26. Bill loft; findei
transfers it to C. for a valuable confideration-the original owner
cannot bring trover againif C. i Burrwiv. .459- S. P. -i L, R4ymnd 738. 2 Burr. 675. 6. 1 24.. I127.-i Freman 257, Bill pava-

bie to A. or bearer, is like fo mtnh money paid to wlbomfoever the
note is given; that let what difcotint, of condition5, foevei, be be.
tween the party who gives the note, and he to-whom it isgi en, yet
97s 43:
it fhall not affe& the bearer.-3 Bacon. title, Mere/jaht. .Oer
M.arius 72. 3 Burrows 1523 o 27" 29.
It was contehded farther by the plaintiff, 3hat the a& of affembly
had changed the nature of thefe. contrads ; that they were not to be
conftrued on commercial principles only; that the do6lrine of the
lefendant eftablifhed this principle, that it was nudurmpal1um, there
was no confideration at the time of the bond being given or affigned.
To which it was anfwered, thit3 judging on commercial principles,
Awant of confideration was no objeffion,.for there is no fuch
thing is nudrum.Pa61um in mercantile tranfacdtions. " Purr. 1669.Plaintiff ilfo denied deferhdant to be within the defalcation a&.
The couicil-for the defendant contended, that it ,wns not Ihe in:
tention of the LegiflMiture to maike bonds negotiable here as fromir fory notes ii Bngand. They allowed the law is laid down in the
above cafes, btit denied the application ; infifting thzt they fgood
upon quite a different footing-That nothing m,re .t as meant by
the af, thahi to give aflignees the benefit of fuing in their own
nimes and preventing any releafe, or othe*r dealings, affetng the
aflignee after aflignment once made; that in EBgland, a-bond paffes
into the hands of an affipnee fubjed to all the equity it had in the
hands of the affignor,-:or which fh.v quoted 6 ;'rn. 69 2. 67,5.
1o Moa 4.5! P.-ms. 383. 45'. 2-59.. That, the conftru&iQv,contended for by plaintiff, would bpei a door to numberlefs frauds;
hat a fatisfied bond might be pa-Ted away, and the obligor compelled
to pay it twice ; that even a forged bond xi-ight pafs in the fame
manner;

'Sur#Emx Courr- of Piinfykianla3

th_ ifier4 that the preamble has little weight in the confiru&ion of 1776.
a law, being often made by the clerks in Parliament; that trade Uv.-I
ttnd commerce, would be beft promoted by their conftru&ion, as it
would only impofe a duty on a perfon taking a bond, to enquire
in what lite it gtood.
That in cafeof bonds thiffaid, orloft, nomoney could be paid on
them ; that the intention of the Legiflature was to make thefe bonds,
bills, &c. fubje& to a common law remedy, and fubfitute the doctrine ofthe courts of equity in England in this Province, andno farthei.
That it was evident, that a general negotiability was noi intended;
.if it had, the Legiflature would not have varied the expreflion in
thofe parts of the itatutes, cxprefsly refering to inland bills of e,change, and making promiffory fiotes negotiable as bill* of exchange; the a& of affembly, on the other hand, exprefling fuch
a recovefy by aflignee as the affigner courd have hadi and confining
the recovery to fuch money as was due at the time of the affignment.
That this was further confirined by the laft claufe ofthea&, Which
prohibits the affignee releafing any money afuially,- or really, due;
rhat cuftom and pra6ice, which are goodexpofitors of laws, are
with them; and that fhe featute of 4. and 5 Ann. being declared offi
fliews it was the fenfe of the Praditioners, that promiffory inotes are
not negotiable here as in England. That t to the defalcation a&, it
is a remedial law, and to be extended by equity to all cafes withir
the fame mifchief; that though that part of it, which gives a fcire
facias, does not apply to this cafe, yet the otlier partdoes; ahd the
defendant is fairly within"the reafon of it.
The council for the plaintiff, in reply, adinitted the law in Englani
as laid down by the defendant in the cafe of bonds; arid, that betoithe fitute, promiffory notes were 6nly evidence of a debt; there was
no property transfered ; but that the a& of affembly and' aa of parliament, Ieing rniadeparimateria, are to receive the like cbnfru&ion.¢
That ihe co'nftri&ion made by the defendanti would render the
a& nugatory-That merelV-to give the affignee a right of fuing in his
own name, unlefsfome folid advantage attended it, was trifling, nor
would it at all encourage trade and commerce.' That a limited
negotiability, was an abfurdit,; it muff be negotiable, or not; if
negoti;ble, it was fo in all cafes when honeftly come by, of
not at all, That the intention of the at mutt wholly fail, if
aflignee is only to fland in the place ot aflignor, and his recovery
made to depend on circumftances and proofs, which, in the nature
of things, are not in his power, That to fay the affignee quti
make inquiry before.he meddles with the bond, is begging the
queftion. We coritend, that this aa of affembly meant fomethingi
and that was, for the fake of trade and commerce, to annex a property in the Oebt, and a"cbrrency to'the paper, and to improve vigilance.in *the debtor, to take care either to guard his contra& in the
fiift inftance, or in cafe of payment, or other fatdisaf.ion, to fee his
payments indbrfed or his bond cancelle&
D

That

25

1776.

CAs Es fulcd an

.drgcd in te

T't there is no ground'for fippoling the intention of the law
.- as o.nly .o gie chancery jurifdftion; becaufe.there was a chancery 0in this Province until the yeai IS; fince 'this a& paffed,
sr,,i Ps loon as ever the chancery powers ceafed totbe exercifed, the
(irts(
f-" ror-k them, and have exercifed them to the great fatisfaction of ,hc Provice.-That, if they were competent in on cafe, they
v.c:e -."o]r, another; and they.have in many inflances gonermuchfart Lr th.-n in this. That, in confiling this law, we are to regard
the flate of t'he Province at that time. There was little Specie;
no Pa.per Currency ; a medium of trade was wanted; the a& of
Parlian:er.t ha.d thewn how promilory"notes had been made a meed-urn of commere ; they took it for their guide, and extended it to
bot:ds atd peral bills. That the variance in worditig the a& is
eafily act-onnted for. Foreign bills of exchange were :iot in much
uie, lnl.rd Bills not known; to l ave ufed the language of the a:&
of Parlianent, would have been penning laws in a language not
t:nder.tood, and it would be abfurd to refer to a fpecies of contrafs
kumo°.n aid underflood by very few in the Province, That cuflom
and. pracice is with the plaintiff, as there is fcarcely a news-paper
which does not forewarn Ver(ons from taking aflignmnents -of bonds,
Lill, notcz, &c.-apra&ice pe-uliar to this Province, and, therefore,
r.:c-.t painly dmonflrating, that this law made fuch a change in
thiefa aIi:gfaments, as t6put an obligo" in a worfe fituation in care
h' s bond %vasahlgred, th:n vhile it continued in the hands of the
ob: . 'Ihat the pra&ice of declarers in ihis Province on promilfory notes'undcr the ilatute, may with more propriety be refolved
into the corvenieihce and eafe of the lawyers, than flowing fiom any
•'ncip.e- of'law. That the defalcation d& is exprefsly confined to
ptrfons havirg d9il.'ings together; and as a fcirefacas is admitted
not to Iv, it mour be a new conflru&ion of ffatutes, which makes a
pcrfon a fiubje& of a:tatute in one pirt, and not in another ;-that
he may be prejudiced under the law, but can receive qo benefit from it. The Plaintiff's council clofed with a cafe from Lanciyer determinded by Mellieurs Lawrence and iling. It was that
ot Baufinan affignee of HenryBough,"aflignee of Jacob Stily; aflignee of
Henry Jkrggoner. The a&iba was brought on a note of hand for
one hundred and four pounds. Plea, payment. Defendant offered
to hew in evidence an agreement, figned by /Taggoner, the original
p.mriffee, m~ide at the time the note was given, tendi,,r to fhew
i want cf confideration. Plaintiff obje&ed-The court held it
could not be offiered, as it would effeaually deflroy the negotiability
of notes; and faid it would be attended with the moft dangerous
c6feq.,ences, if the claim of an honeft affignee of a bond, or note,
thould be defeated by any bargains, or agreements, made.at the giving fuL h notes, or bonds, and not expreifed therein. The evidence
-Aas accordingly over-ruled.
The court took time, till the 25 th April, -to c6nfider, and this day,
gave judgment.
CHEW,

SUPRI UF COURT Of .P~jfiVani.

27

Cnnw, Cbief 7uj;ce. The queftiorin this cafe is, whether
Rtlughts an have the same defalcation againf Wheeler, whizh hle couid

have had againi Baynton, if this hgd not been alligned,
It was conteuded for the Plaintifl; that bonds were negotiable as
inland bills ol- exchange.
. -It was 4lfo conternded, that defalcation by the aa, is only wher;
there are dealings between-the parties.
For the defendant it was contcnded, that the a&t does not make
them .Pegotialle, as bills and notws. are by the itatute of 3 ad +
Jim. c. 9.
It is plain h6wever that the at was drawn from tne flatute, for in
ri n places it follows it, loiidrn verhs, though in ot crs it varies.
This fhews the legillature intended in thofe inflances, ta vary the
law. .Bills in England were ntgotiable before thp itute; nates
were only evidence of i debt the atute was made to put them ons
the fame footing with bills.
The quellio, is whether the a& of a~lembly has done the f.:me"
as the fatute. "" e th-e compared, the aa with the fhn'te, 1lie'
that it was drawn from the ftatute,
The aa however fays, " for the encouragenent of trade, cdmand credit;" the flatute adds," and to make notes nego.nerce
tiable in the famemannbr as bills,"This is a materialvariance, and.
is carried through the at.
The Defendant relied on the words in the a& entitling affigne-"
to recover the money, that ihould appear to be due, inlike manner as
obligee could.
Here is the'fame variance as before; for, by the ftatute, the
aflfignee is to recover what Ihall be due, " in like manner as -indorfee of a bill -of exchange."-Had the a& purfued the ftatute in
theft refpeas, or expreffed the fame weaning in other words; the
plaintiff would be right.
What flall appear to be due at the time of the affigniment, has
been differently, applied'by the oppofite council ;-The Plaintiff's
council contended, that it meant what appeared to be due on-the
bond ;' fo that, if the bond fhould be paid, yet if payment was nor
indorfed, the affigheie might recover the whole..
* The Defendant contended, that the claufe related only to the manner of proceeding, enabling the affignee to fue in his own name.
We have confidered this matter very deliberately, and are clearly
of opinion, that the variance between the af and the ftatute, was
intentional, not accidental. ,
, An argument of force with us, not. mentioned by the defendant,
arifes from the wording of the ac.
The words" fo much as fhall appear to be 'due," relate t6 the
time of trial, and not to tke time of the affignment ;-they are in
the future tcnfe.

x776..

-gCASES
1776,

ruled and adjudged in the

tt has been faid, that it is the obligor's fault not to have the pay-i
indorfed on the bond ; but it is not in his power, for the moneF
muft be paid before he is entitled to a receipt; and then, if tho
pbligee is a bad -man, he may refufe to indorfe it.
We are, therefore dearly of opinion, that an affignee takes the
bond at his own peril; nd that he ftands in the fame place as tho
obligee, fo as to let in every defalcation which the obligor had
ngainil the oblig
at the time of the aiirnnienr, or notice of the
affignmenf. The only intent of the a&t bing to enable the affignee
to fue in his own name, and prevent the obligee from releafing
after 2flignment.
Judgmept for the Defendani.

Srn--ent

Townfi ip of FALLOWFIELD verfus Townihip of
MARLBOROUGH.

O

N Cerfiorari to Cheatr, to remove an order 'ald judgment of
feflons, for the removal of 7ames -leany.
Exceptions taken to the proceedings below--:-That it did not appear
the pauper had been examined ; nor was any reafon fet forth why hd
was not: That naturaljuffice required he Ihould be heard before he
was removed. And the following cafes were cited :-2 Salk. 488. to
fhew theexamination muft be by two Juflices.-2 Sira. 1092. S. P.

And. 238-

S&et. Cas. c, ?8.

But it wadanfwered: ift. That it was not neceffary that-the exaruination fhould appear 'on the face of the order. Juftices are not
obliged to fet forth evidence, or every little circumftance; that when
nothing is fet forth which appears to he wrong, the Court will
make an intendment in favour of their order. An order to a comInon intent good. 1 Stra. 211. That it is not neceffary to fet
forth the fumrnmos and exainination of the party.- Sra. 474. 630.
2i,. 2d. Lord Ray. 1406.
2d. That even if it was necelfhry, there are ,words in the order
equivhlent, viz, on due c,idration, which -implies due examination-3 Burn. S.ef. Cas. Alfo the words due propf. Alfo the words
on the examingtion of Samndl Heany "1 as efherwife."
That in the cafes from Sa~k~s 'there appeared a defec& of examination on the ord"r, it having been taken by one Juftice inflead of
two.

BY THE CoURT.-No cafe can be fhewn, where an order wa&
deemed bad, becaufe the examination did not appear on the face of
tl order.
Comb .474. is a book of no great authority, and this cafe is contradi&ed by many others.-We are of opinion that it is not neceffary
that an examination -fhould appear on the face of the order; nor isit necefifary that the examination of any perfon flould, be fet forth.
'If any pauper was in:,-ed by a removal, the remedy ngrithad
be

