CAMSs ruled and adjudged in the

1788.
ROAERTSON

-

et al. V.erfVs

VOGLE.

N th;s a'ftion the Plaintiffs declred, as h:dorfees, upon a pr#lmitt.y note, againif the Defendant as Indorfcr, both the partie
refiding in the city of Pbhi;adephia. It appeared, on the trial, that
the note "as drawn on the ioth April, i-'86, and that it was protefted lo rio.n.payment on the ix th une, 1786 ; but on the 5 th of
-uly and on the 23 d of Auguft following, the Plaintiffs received feveral prtiai payments from the drawer, without attempting td give
notice of the proteft to the indorfor, till after the a14 of thofe pay-.
ments, .Nlien the drawer had become greatly embarriffied in his circumiianceg. Nor was tlere, indeed, any other evi&ence of notice,
previoufly to the commencement ot the affion, to M]'arch terni
1787, than that thePlaintiff's clerk had frequently called at the Defendant'sRore, but was not certaiii that he had ever feen him, or
lett a note of his bufinels.
Ingef] moved for a non-fuit on two grounds: ifl, Becaufe the
receipt of a pirt of the monty from the drawer, is a difcharge of the
"indorfor for the whole; and adly, Becaufe the Plainti*.ff's did not
give reafon able netice of the prottef to the Defendant.
ift. On ,hefi,? point he contended, that the indorfor of a prqmiitorv note, is only a warrantor that he will pay the money, it the
drawer does *not; and thai if the indorfee receives a part, he 'takes
upon hinfelf to give credit to the drawer, and difcharges the iridorfor. i 7I/s.. 46, i-all v. Pij/eld.2 Stra. 745. K4llock v. Aobirfon. 81.P
"2d. With refpea to theJecond point he cited 7erm Rep.i 6 7. Eaf-.
ter. 27. Ge,?. 3. Tindal et alI v. Brozn, where it isfaid, that ivheii
note isdifc-irged by the drawer, the holder muft give reafonable
.a
tls means" fomething more than
notice to he "that
making it known; for it is not enough that he fays the drawer has
not paid, but he muft declare that he does not mean to give-credit ;
atid, th'rciore, when he circurmftances are afcertained, what
As
is reafun..i.e nqtice 'is a 4ueftion bf Yaw and not -of la&.
to the giv:xg time, the hOlder does it at his peril, for it has never
Vecn rieternined ihat the iiduior is liable, where ihe holder has
given credit to the drawer;* fo thar the want' of notice is tan"t~rmouit t,
.: ~. id. '12. c a ba.tcn, icr the Plzintiff;, argued, ifj, That the accept,..(cc i z, pait f]1al ncat pjcidice he bolder of a bill or noteand, as upon the authority of this book,
f-'6. F .
A .crd::. &:
oLC Ition,. they faid it could not
trt. CULrr had determined an-l,ftbrnier
Lyus.
i 46, vhich was not a
cc,
tl- yrctyent
. i in
b d(C)::. in fl.c jFimcipal cafi.,'but ai- cb.er di4umn, referring to a prectdirg oet3in.in:.tion 16r an aigirferta trIori.;n6r by 2 Strs. 745,
V.'h!:h x,.s a f1oit _A",7 Prius note. Vefides, thefe reports give no
rcI.'.c. :vr their decifions, but l1arius a.4tgns a i'ery fatisla&ory rp"
4,r Lks doErine; to vw
it, that it is beneficial to the indorflbr that thg
k
Lholder

CouRT Of COMMON PLZEA

of Philadelphia Cco,,fV.

253

holder fhotild receive as much of the moneyas he can from the draw- x7'88,
r, 'fince thereby fo much ii faved to him. There is a material difference, how.ver, between the principles and ufage in Lond'on and
4mflerdam, and the cuforn of Philadelphiaupon this, as wpll as the
point of notice ; for Jong indulgence arid the courfe of. bufinefs,
kave aot yet brought us to the'precife and ftri& pra&ice of thofe capitals.
-2dly. With re fpe& to thefecond objeaion,they faid,thlat the Plain tiff's clerk went repeatedly'in purfuit of the Defendant ;' and proof
of making enquiry after him is fufficieit to excufe'giving notice,
unlefs he' hews that fie might have been foun1. L. N. P. 273.
'274. But, at all events, they infifted that.whati was reafopable notice
was a matter of fa', and not of law ; i Stra. 5.8. '2 Sira. 829.
1t75. 'i .lackRep., x.' For, though it is true, th;at there are many
fas upon which, if the Jury' proceed con.trary to the opinion of the
Court, a rehearing* will be-granted; yet they muft, at laft, be determined by, a veria : In Ylrover, for infiance, the Converfon can
only be found by a Jury, it cannot be found by the Court. That
reafonable -notice is a faa of the fame kind, was conceded by very eminent council, * in oppofition to the intereft of his client. Doug.
496- 7. The propriety of the rule is abundantly more ftriking here
than in England; and as a Jury alone can decide upon the circum.iances -f the country, and th- relaiiv6 fit.ation of the parties, it
ought to be left to them to nrcertain the reafonablenefs ot the nonce,

Zngtrfel, ip reply, faid, that the cafe vas of great importance to the
Tnercaiitile inteiefl; and that the mifchief would be fatally exten-'
five, if the pdverfe arguments prevailed. He contended, .however,
-that in whatever form the Plaintiffs choofe to proceed,'they muff
fail in their a '-6ion. For, if they bring their fuit at common-law,
then it cannot be maintained at all; fince, at common-law, a chafe
in aaio'n is not aflignable ; nor is an affignor refponfible vnlefs he
expreily warrants;" and, 'if they bring it upon the cujflom of Merchanis,
then, in order to recover, they muft fhew that they have, on their
part, compiied wiih the cuftom, which required That reafonabl6 notice of the non-payment, oult have been given to the Defendant.
But, as the corhon-|aw is not applicable, and the A7'of 4ffilnhl1
iloes not meddle with the cafe of Indorf-rs and Indorfees, the dLclaration muft undoubtedly be fdunded upon the flatute of nnt and the
cuftom ofmerchants; and if tie Plaintiffs are allowed to take advantrage of thefe to maintain his a6tion (wavingthe queflion 'vihether the
hatute extends to this country) the Defendant cannot be precluded
from taking advantage of them, likewife, to fupport his defence.
XJpon this grqund the ufage muft be univerfial : I or, the flatute of
;nne places prcmiffory notes on the fame footing with inland bills of
exchange, and inland bills of exchange, in the preceding reign of
01 *3. had been placed on the fame footing. wi:h foreign billf-fq
m and Lngon, and
that any diflix.aio , between the citie of 47,1g.

CA ss ruled and adjudged in the

f5. .

t.

1 88. - the city of Philaddphia, cannot be maintained; the ufage is every
~ where the fame; and the conftrudion of the ftatute will notbe different, merely-from a difference in the place.
It is fettled, by the common law, as well as under the flatute, that
he who gives a new credit is bound; this is not contradi&ed by the
do&rine laid down in Marius; and the cafe in Lord Rayrn. is corroborative. In Mfarius the money is prefumed to be received at the
time the note becomes due, the proteft is made at the fame inftant,
and notice of the dithonoring is given as foon as poffible-fo that
there, undoubtedly, the indorfor is benefit-ted by the indorfee's taking a part of the money, and runs no rifque for the want ofinformation refpe6ting the late of the bill, or note ; but in the prefent cafe,
the money was received, at leaft, three months before any attempt
to give notice, and in the meantime the drawer became infolvent.
The Court argue in Wilfon as from a fixed principle, that the indorfees receipt of a part from the drawer is a difcharge of the indorfor
for the whole; and Strange, though a njiprius report, is in point in
all its circumfiances.
He contended, that the cafe cited in Bul. L. N P was in favor
of the Defendant on thefecond point; for he had fhewn ttlat he
might eafily have been found; and where the parties reficle in the
fame town, not a moment Thould elapfe between the proteft and the
niotice. T. Rep. Ib7. The Supreme Court, in Steinmetz verJu4 Currie*
faid, that in all univerfal queftions of a mercantile nature, the Term
Reports-were to be received as authority ; this was refolved, in oppofition to cafes for ioo years back, fhewing a different pra&ice with
refpe& to notice ; and in Donaldfon v. Coqper,+ the Judges reftifed
to hear the evidence of merchants as to ufage, becaufe the point
had already been determined. As, therefore,'it has been fettled, that
reafonable notice is a queftion of law, and not of fa&, the Plaintiff
cannot now bring it into doubt and controverfy.
SHIPPEN, Prridem, delivered the opinion of the Court to the following effe&.
This is a motion for a nonfuit upon two grounds; fi-fl that the
Plaintiff by an acceptance of part-of the money from the drawer of
thie note in queffion, has difcharged the indorfor; and, fecohdly, that
he is alfo difcharged, becaufe due notice of the non-payment of the
note'was not given to him.-It is to be obferved, that with regard to
difcharging the parties to bills ofexchange, the law makes a material
difference ; for, fome of them can only be difchargel by an exprefs,
but others maybe difchargedbyan implied exoneration. Thus, the
acceptor of the bill cannot he difcharged by any conftru&ion in law;
and though the holder proceeds againft the indorfor, and receives
part of the money from him, this will not prevent hk afterwards reforting to th6 acceptor for payment of the balance. Doug '235.
In the inflance of a promiffory nQte the drawer ftands in the place of
an acceptor. a J'ls. 263. But an indorfor is only a fecurity that
the
,Gee p.

t

te alfo 6hopmaa verfus

S s lan i

poft.

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphia County.

"55

the acceptor of the bill, or the drawer of the note, Thall pay the mo- 1789.
ney ; and, therefore, if the holder is guilty of any negle&in endeavouring to recover it, that will certainly be an implied difcharge of
the indorfor. If, for inflance, the holder takes u!pon himfelf to give
further. time for payment, or, receives apart of the money, and gives
time for the reft, the nature ot the tranfation is effentially changed,
and the indorlor is no longer refponfible. The fame principle appliesto thefecondpoint ; -for, if the holder of a note, without giving
notice to the indorfor of its being diflhonored, retains it fo long in
his handg, after the day of payment, as to create a prefumption that
he means to take upon hlmfelf to -give a new credit to the drawer,
the want of notice in this cafe, will likewife operate as a difcharge.
This, however, cannot be determined in the fame manner here,
thatit is in England. In that country, regular pofts are efltablifhied,
the correfpondence between the great commercial towns pun&ually
maintained 4 and the communication, throughout the kingdom, is
commodious, certain, and uninterrupted.
Thefe circumflances,
therefore, render it eafy to make a general rule ;--of which the care
cited for the Defendant'from erm 'Reports, exprefsly fpeaks. But
in Pennfylvaniathere are fome roads -hich the pofts never travels,
a :d' fd6m'feafons in which the communication, between the different
parts of the State, is exceedingly difficult and precarious..: How
then can a gulerarulebe made, fo as to afcertain every where, and.
at all times, The reanable time of the notice ? The attempt, if
not totally iihpra&icable, would, in its confequences, be dangerous
and inconvenient.
But, with regard +o theparticular cafe beforeus, thera can be no.
doubt, that the right of Indorfees to call upon the Indor fors, muft
be founded upon the Cuftom of Merchants: for, the indorfement,
confidered at common law, amounts only to an affignment 9f all'the
property in the bill, or note, without making the affignor refponfible in the event of a non-payment.
How tar, however, promiffory notes are in this State upon the fame footing with bills of exchange, is a queftiofifub judice in the Supreme Court; and, therefra,
it would be going out of our duty to give a decifion upon it at this
time. * Yet, it mufi be obferved, that the flatute of Anne has, in
femke refpe&s been extended to this country.
For, the uniform
prarfice has been to bring arions upon promiffory notes, as fuch;
and not a&ions -ofIndebitatus affumpfit,. which was the proper aaion,
according to the opiion of HOLT, ChiefJuftice, before the pafling
of that ftatute. The Legiflature, likeWife, when regulating the affignment of bonds and notes, though they did not exprefsly put them
on the fame footing with bills of exchange, muft) from the terms
of the act, have taken it for granted,that an a&ion might be brought
upon a promiffory note, confidered as an inflrument- 'Till, therefore, a contrary decifion is pronounced, we muft proceed as in thp
cafe of a bill of exchange, under the ftatute of Anne ; and there it
appears, that a very trifling negligence, on the part of, the h~older,
will
In the ca

of A.T:Colloug vs. H.on.

25v

CAsEs ruW and adjudged &e,

1788. " will operate ads a difcharge of the indorfor. This rule, we admit, s
L-,-"juft and proper, when the courfe of trade is regular, and the communication by poft is uniform and free. For, as it is ufual among
merchants to lend their names to one another, all faith and credit
would be'at an end, if the holder of a note, infte-id of att.empting
-toprocure the payment from the perfon who ought really to pay it,
might; tacitly, keep it in his po1Th i ,n, 'till the irifolvency of -the
drawer, had deprived the indo'for of his only remedy. If, terefore,
he retains it two or three months, or any other unreafonable period,
-he ought certainly to bear the los ;. and, accordmily, the 1z-r
deems this the giving of a ne v credit to the drawer, and difcharge
the indorfor.
Upon the whole, the fa~s in the prefent rAFe, are ftrong in favor
of the Defendant; but ftill we ihould be for-y to take it from tho
determination of the Jury, upon a quellion rc fpe&i ng the reafonablenefs of the notice : For, as it has been alre.,dy faid, it is impoflible
to eftablifh a general rule, alike applicable to all the parts of the
State; and until fuch a rule can be eftabli;hed, every cafe, upon its
own circumftances, muff be left to the Jury, as a queltion of far
and not of law.
. The Jury afterwards gave a verdi& for the Defendant.

SUPkEMN

