OYER

and TERMINER
at Phiade Jhia :

.February Seffions,

RESPUBLICA

verfus

&Q.

1788.

SHAFFE R.

A FTER fome converfation with the Grand Inqueft, the AttorJXney, General informed the court, that a lift of eleven verfots
had been prefentee! to him by the Foremah, with a requeif, that
they might be qualified and fent to the jury, as witneffes u pon a bill
then depending before them. He flated that the lift had been made
out by the defendant's bail: that the perfons named were intended
to furnifh teflimony in favor of the party charged, upon fa&s with
which the Inqift, of their own knowledge, were unacquainted ;
.ndhe conch'id.-d with requefling, that the opinion of the court might
be given upon this'application. TH.E CHIEF JuSTIcE, accordimgly, addrefled the Grand Jury to the following effe&6:
M'K-N, Chief 7u)ice.-VTere the propofed examination of
witnelifes, on the part of the Defendant, to be allowed, the long
eftablifhed rules of law and juftice would be at an end. It is a matter well known, and well underftoot, that by the laws of our country, every queflion which affe&s a man's life, reputation, or property, muft be tried by twelve of his peers; and that their unanimous
verdia is, alone, competent to determine the faa in iffue. If then,
you undertake to enquire, not only upon what fouada:ion the
charge is maae, but, likewjfe, upon what foundation it is denied,
TU will, in effe&, ufurp the jurifdi&ion of the Petty Jury, you will
Upercede the legal authority of the court, in judging of the competencyand admiflibility.of witneffes, and, having thus undertaken to
try the queflion, that queflion may be determined bv a bare majority, or by a much greater number of your body, than the twelve peers
prefcribd by the law oifthe land. This point has, I believe, excited
iome.itoubts upon former occafions but thofe doubts have never
arifen

'CouRT of OYER and TEnmINER &c. at Philadelhia.

237

arifen in the mind ofany lawyer, and they may eafily be removed by 1788.
Fdr, the bills, or prefent- "
a proper confideration of the-fubje&.
ments, found by a grand Jury, amount-to nothing more than an official accufation, in order to put the party accufed upon his trial :
-till he bill is returned, there is, therefore, no charge from which
he can be required to exculpate himfelf; and we know that many
perfons, againft whom bills were returned, have been afterwards acquitted by a verdi& of their country. Here then, is the juit line of
difcrimination:. It is the duty of the Grand-Jury to enquire into the
nature and probable grounds ofthe charke; but it is the exclufive
province of the Petty Jury, to hear and'determine, with theafliftance,
and under the direaion'of the court, :upon points of law, whether
the'Defendant is, or is not guilty, on the whole evidence, for, as well
as againft, him.-You wilU'therefore, readily perceive, that- if you
examine the witneffes on both fides, you do not confine your confiddration to the probable grounds of charge, but engage completely
in the trial of the caufe; and your return muff, confequently, bc
But thi4
tantamount to*a verdi& of acquital, or condemnation.
would involve us in another difficulty ; for, by the law it is declared
that no mah ihall be twice put.in jeopardy for the fame offence: and,
yet, it is certain that the enquiry, now propofed by the Grand Jury,.
Would neceffarily introduce the oppreffion of a double trial. Nor
is it merely upon maxims of law, but, I think ilikewife, upon principles of humanity, that this innovation fhould be oppoled. Confid~rin~g the bill as an accufation grounded entirely upon the teftimony in fupport of the profecution, the Petty Jury receive no biafs from
the fanaion which the indorfement of the Grand Jury has conferred
upon it.-But, on the other hand, would it not, in fome'degree,
prejudice the moft upright mind againif the Defendant, -that on a
full hearing of his defeoce, 4nother tribunal had pronounced it infufficient ?-:which would then be.the natural inference from every
true-hil. Upon the whole, the court is.of opinion, that it would be.
improper and illegal to examine the witneffes, on behalf of the
Defendant, while the charge againft him lies before the Grand-Jury.
One of the Grand Inqueft then obferved to the court, that "there
was "aelaufe in the qualification of the Jurors, upon which he, and

fome of his brethren, wilhed to hear the interpretation of the Judges
-to wit-what is the legal acceptation of the words "diligently enyuire." To this the CnIEF JUSTICE replied, that "the expreflion meant, diligently to 'enquireinto the circumftances of the charge,
the credibility of the witneltks who fupport it, and, from the whole,
to judge whether the perfon accufed ought to be put upon his trial.

For, (he added) though it would be improper to determine the me-tiof the caufe, it is incumbent upon the Grand Jury to fatisfy
a probable ground for
their minds, by a diligent enquiry, that there -is
the accufation, before they give it their authority, and call upon
the Defendant to make a public defence."
CoMMON

