"149 "

C).sCs ruled and adjiidged in the

et

PENMAN

-

al.

verfus

WAYNE.

T

HIS canfe came again before the Court, in confequence of*
the former dp.difion, that, .on the rule to fhew caufe why the.
writ fhould not be quafhedi t- the Defendarx may controvert the
Th& of his not being r~tident in the Statefor t*o years next before the
writ itihed," which was bi.,ted in the depolition filed on the part of
the Plaintiff. in ord-r to ground a-c ias againit him, notwithfianding his beingafreeholder. Seeant z4T.
Sergeant now%
]rocluced an~aditionil affidavit, fetting forth, that
the Defendant had left this State,- and refided in Georgia (where he
had a confiderable property) for upwards of fifteen months, -next be-

fbre the writ ihrued.

-

In oppofition to which Lewis examined a witnefs, who proved
that the Defendant had a real ellate in Choer county, whereon his
wife and feveral children conftantl refided ; that he htd ekp'efftlI
an int-fition of felling his property irr Georgia; that he never reant
permanently to refide there, but .went thither upon particular. bufi
hefs ; aiid 7that :s foon as that 'wgs tra.nfj/ed he d figned toreturn
-to his efltate and family in Pennfylvania;

T ai 9 CoU RT were unarnimoufly and clearly ofopinion, that, -upon
thefe circumftances, the Defiidant ought tobe confidered as a retdent'ofthe State of Pennfylvania, and was entitled to his privilege as
"a freeholdet.
Whereupontherule to fhew caufe.why the writ fhould
not be
quafhed, was maxte abfolute.
BARNARD
"J

verus

FiELfl.

ULE to fhew caufe why the Capias if'uedin this cafe fh6uld

"'. not be qu ifhed, the Defendant being a freeholder. As the
Plaintiff had delayid iffiiingprocefs until within tfife'e or four'days of
the term, he could not iifue' a fummon', (which, mult be, at leaff,
ten days before the return). bui he had direeked the Sheriff to. accept
the Delendant'sappearance, by an indorfement on the Capias.
H1atly, in fhewiag caufe againfi the rule, 'obferved, t'iat the
wrds of the Atl were, that a ireeholder fhould" not be arreflted or
detained ; that in the moce here adopted, there had been np detention ; and that it was .En6tioned by an uniform-pra*ice in fimilar
cafes.
7- dd infiffed, for the Defendant, "that in no cafe, upon no terms,
fhall a Gapias iiFue againft a freeholder, unlef" lie is brought within
he exceptions 61 the A&"

