-St7PIE!mE CouxZT

WHARTON

of Pennfylvania.

1-1

et al, verfus MoR R.is et al.

1785.

D EBT upon a bond. Plea, payment, with:leave to -give the
A fpecial matterin evidence.
The c'afe was this :-The plaintiffs, copartners; fold to Pleafants,
Shore & Co..merchants in Virginia, -a confiderable quantity of tobacco in March.z 7 7 8, when the Pennfyluaniafcale of depreciation, eftimate&continen-talmoney at the rate of five -for -one. .Articles 6f
agreement were executed between the-.yvndors and ,the purchafera,
in which Pleafants, Shore & Co. covenanted .to pro~ure ff71ilng,
Morrir,.and.Inglis,merchants of Philaddphia,as -fur'ti6s for the payment. of.the-tobacdo; -and, accordingly,.a bond for-that ,purpofe was
afterwards. executed by thofe gentlemen,in the penalty *of I 2,000
on condition to be void, if Pteafant & Co. fhould -pay the fum
agreed 3ipon (thatis ,7.per cent.)" otrthettbirtiethfSeptember1782
in lawfid current money of Pennylvania." I t.appeared that Inglis, one
of the defendants, had offered to pay the value of the tobacco, at
the time of the frle, with intereft; but.this was refufedby the plaintiffs; and no paynient or.tender, being.made upon the 3 oth of Septembei-782, they brought the prefent affionupon the bond.
The evidertce was brief, confiffing only of the articles of agreement, the bond, a'depofition of the offer made by Inglis, and tefi-.mony that the ufual price ofttobaccQ, during many years prececding
-

the war, was aboui .2ofpfr Cwt.

1 7klocks, 'Sergegnt, and Lewis, for the plaintiffs, contended, that
this tranfa&ion was.a fair and.lawful wager on the part of J1harton, & Co. in confidence that the continental money would recover
its original value; id that on the other hand they ran a confidcrable rhique; as,.if it depreciated, they would have been bound to
take it, provided it continued a legal currency. But the a& which
repealed the tehdef law deftroyed its currencyt; fo-that on the 3oth
September 1782, -when.the bond became due and payable, the only lawJfl currentmoney of Pennfylvania, was coin, ot gold or fiver;
and that by the terms of the.bond ought to be paid.
GgierneurMorri, Mifon and Ingerfol, for the defendants, denied
that the tranfa&ion was founded in a wager ; and contended that
the plaintiffs had Let up a hard and unconfcjonable demand.: for,
they intifled, that the lawfd current money, expreffed in the bond,
meant what was current at the time of-its execntion:; and they decared the readinefs of the defendants-either to pay at the rate efta.blihed by the fcale of depreciation, or according to the real valuo
of thq tobacco, with infereft from the date of the tale. .
M'KEAx, Chief :7utqice delivered a circumftantial and learned
charge to the Jury. He faid, that.the want of a Court with equitable powers, like thofe of-the Chancery in England,had long been
felt in Pnnj)lvania. The intfitution of fuch. a Court, he oblerved,
had once been agitated here; but the hopifes of Affembly, antece.
dent to the revolution, fuccefsfully oppofed it ; becaufe they were
apprehtnfive of encreafiog, by that means, the power and influence*
oi

r26

1785-'-v"-'

CASEs

ruled and adjudged &c.

of the Goveinor, who claimed it as a right to be Chancellor. N7
t.his reafon, many-inconveniences have been fuffered. No adequate
remedy is provided forabreadi of -truft; no relief can 'be obtained
in cafes of covenants'with-a penalty &c. This defe& -of jurifdi&ion, -has ne(effarily, obliged the Court upon fuch occafions, to refer
the queffion to the -jury, undef an equitable and. confciencious interpretation of:the agreement of the parties; and it is -upon that
gound, the jury muft .confider and-decide the prefent caufe.
His Honor,having recapitulated the evidence, concluded with the
following obfervations.
The bond is made payible in-eurrent wondy'of Pennfylvania;but,
I would afk, what is the'currentmoney of'cnnj .lvania? For hay part,
I know of none, -that can properly be fo called, for- current and lawful are fynonymous. .In Great Britain, the King by his .proclamation may render any.fpecies of coin a lawful currency.- ut here,
it can only be done by an a& of affembly; and except in the temporary laws for fupporting the former cmiflions of paper-money,
there is no pretence that-the legiflature-has ever interfered upon this
,abje&. The expreflions in the 2 SCO. ofthe a& of the 27t-11 January, 1777, cannot be "conftrued to make the Spanifh :milled dollars a
legal tender, as they are only mentioned by words of referrence;
but that which was declared to-be a lawful tender, and confequently, became the legal currency of the land, was the money emitted
-under the authority of Congrefs.
To that fpecies of money, therefore, the bond muff be taken 'to
relate; and the jury i-Wll either reduce the penalty to gold or filver, according to the -fcale of depreciation ; or, if they think it more
-equitable, they will find a verdia for the value of the tobacco, and
.give the plaintiffs legal intereft from the day 6f fale.
.The jury adopted the latter opinion, dnd found for the plaintiffs
,,with .3,600 damages and 6d. -cofis.
W LS ON'S
' JECTMENTY

Lefee verfus CAI

PB EL .

eates,for ihe defendant, when called upon at

.J-..a-the trial to confefs'Leafe, Entry and Onjier, confeffed Pafe,

Entry, and O!uJer -for.partonly of the tenements laid in the declaration.
This was oppoel by Bradfor. who contended, that the defendant having taken general defence, when he firft pleaded, and entered
into the common rule, he muff now confefs Leafe, E'Itry and Ou])eras
to the whole; but the plaintiff can recoer no more than he proves
the defendant to be in poffeflion of. I .Ait. Prac. 317 -.
BY THE COURT: The defendant muft in 'this -cafe, confefs
Leafe,
Entry.a 0uftar for the xvholc tenements laid in the declaration

"

This cafe was determined at -N. P

-

eirlyie o6i -te j6

CO MMON
-May, 1785, be fo

