45o
789.

CAsxs ruled and -adjudged inthe

had been inflituted againffbim by Mr. Januxem, under the authority
Sof afpecial Letter of Attorney from the Plaintiff, who refided in one
of theUnited States; that the day, after judgment had been obtaine4, another perfon arrived :with a general Power of Attorhey from
..the Plaintiff, and that this perfon, without confulting Mr. Vanuxem,
fettled with the Defendant, to whom he gave a general releafe in
the name of his conffifuent. It appeared, alfo, that the latter Power of
Attorney was only authenticated by proof of the hand writing of
the party, and of the fubfcribing witneffes, before the Mayor of this
city.
. Lewis moved that the Defendant.might be difcharged by virtue'
of the releafe.
Du Ponceau obje&ed, ift, That th. authentication of the general
Power of Attorney was not agreeably to tl A1 of Affembly: and,
cdlv, That a generalpower is not a revocation. of a fJecial onq.
LLewis anfwered, that the queftion was not, whether a general
power isa revocation of the fpecial'one; but whether it was a fuflicient authority for granting the releafe. Of this, he faid, there
could be no doubt; and, with refpe& to the mode of authentication, he obferved, that the A& of Aifem-bly relates only to powers executed'in a foreign country, and leaves the matter here to common
law proof.;
THE COURT were of opinion, that the generalp6wer was fifflcient for the purpofe of the releafe; and, having dire&ed the perfon
affing under it, to anter an acknowledgment of fatisfa&ion on-the
record; they ordered the Pliintiff to be difcharged.

II06TON-. verfus

D

WILL.

OMESTIC ATTACHMENT.-This caufe being re-

moved by Certiorari from the Common Pleas, now came
before the Court on the following Cafe, flated for their opinion:

" The tem of Septemher, in the Common Pleas for the county of

Philade hia, in the ycar of our Lord 1782, began on the 4th day
• of Septemher, and on the x6th day of September, in the fame year,
" Judgment was entered in the Court aforefaid, in an a&ion then
" depending at the fuit of the Plaintiff, above named, againil John
4 Le'vinz, which a&ion had been brought to the term df June, in
" the fame year. On the 5th day of the fame month of Septemler,
"
"

a Domeflic.Attachment ifflied out of the fame Court, at the fuit of
John M'Farland againft the faid 7ohn Levinz, and was ferved on

, the lands of the Defendant on the fame day at ii o'clock in the
*morning. No auditors were ever appointed, nor any other protceedings had, under the faid attachment, intill a fi'nilar cafe was
" fated for the opinion of the Court of
ommon. Pleas for the couh"tyaforefaid, the 9 th day of Novrher, in the year" of our Lord
"1784-

SUPREME COURT "of Pennftllvanif.

45

7 84.* At the time of 'rendering the Jidgment aforeraidrthe raid
" hn Levinz was feized of the aforefaid lands in fee; an4 To con" tinued until the fame were fold under, the fame Judgment, by
the f iid Wfliam IF11, as Sheriff of the county, in whofe hands
" the money remains.
" The queftion fubmitted to the Court is, whether the faid Ben.
"jamin 1-ooton, or the faid _ohn AiJarland,is entitled to receive
" the moneyfrom the Sheriff?
The care was argued at the lafI term, by Lewis, for the PlaintifF,
and Ingerfol, for the Defendant, when two queflions were made ;Ift, Whether Hooton's Judgmhnr related to the firft day of the term,.
fo as to exclude the Domefic .4ttacbment, in his favor: And, 2dly,
Whether the Dom/ic Attaehment,.for want of the regular continuances, was not out of Court?
Lewis contended,. ift, That the A& of Affemnbly, and Engi.&f'
ftatute, with refpe6t to docketing Judgments extend only in fav6ur
of fubfequent purchafors for a valuable confideration, I State Laws
463. 3 Black. Comm. 420. 14 'i. tit. 7Judgmeht 6x6. . Cro. C.
Heil 72. 8.C. under the Bankrupt Laws there is a relation to the
time of the a& of bankruptcy; and yet the legal.relation of a judgment to the firft
day of the term, was held fufliciept to defeat ttlz
clim of the Commiflioners. Sid. 27r. Skin. 2S7.
2dly, That from the cafe flated, it does not appear that Auditors have been appointed under the Domeflic Attachment. "This,
however; is not fo 'material, as that there is no continuance of the
caufe. There is not, indeed; any law which dire&s a Judgment iki
aDome/?icAttacbment; but fince on the report ofthe Auditors, the bu-'
finefs is to be fettled, till that is done, is neceflary to continue the
aaion ; as in the cafes of a writ of Partition,and an a&ion of account. See i State Laws 121.
Ingerfol, on the firft point, adverted to the opinion of the Courtof Common Pleas, (fee ant. 187) and urged that the .DomelicAttachment Law, i State Laws 1a6. Was to be confidered as applying to
an infolvent debtor, the great outlines of law with refpe& to a bankrupt. From the moment that the attachment is in the hands of
the Sheriff, the property ceafes to be the Defendant's, and muft be
difpofed of. agreably to the A&. See Comb. 33. Skin. Under a
commiffion of Bankrupts, which is thus anal6gous to the Domfiic
Altachment, creditors are to be conlidered as purchafors, and nothing
can exclude agener.al diftribution, but an execution executed. Se=
Co. Bank. Law. Fi6tions, indeed, "ought never to be allowed to
work an injury; but if the technical relation of a Judgment to the
firft day of the term, were fuffered in a cdfe of this nature, all the
expence and trouble of a Domflic .Attachment would be rendered
oppreffiv, and nugatory.
2d. With
* See the cafe, ant. 187, where, by an error of the Prefs, itis faid to *bea Foe'gn, in~ead of a Dra,,qk attachment. The opinion even in the court of common P ea:, wasqnly upon the firft point Made by the Plaintiffs counfel, (marely I
Isdieve,.at the time of-the argument) but n2o
Fadgnuent was.regularly prozioitimcc,

!2 S9 .

452.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

2d. With refpet to the feconpoint, the A& of Affen'bly," as to
t 7 29 .
L-4v-). the appointment of auditors, is merely' dire&ory; and continuances
are matters of mere form, which may be entered at any time; fo
that the Court will even prefume it to have been done. 2-Har. C.
P. 3i2. L Stra. 139. 2 Barn, Not. r72. I Sira. 136. i Sid.
53. 6o.--See 18 Vin; tit. Purchafor. Preced. in Chan. 478. Schlr
vs. Lejher ant. 41 .
Lewis, in reply, fill urged, that the A&s for docketing Judgments, and recording Deeds, were only made in favor of purchafors;
and although, generally fpeaking, every man who does not take by
ddcent, is called in law, a purchafor, he'contended, that the ojje& of
thofe a6ts was not of that general import, but merely to fecire perfons who had paid an a&ual and immediate confideration for the
premnifes, and not to aid thofe who, by pfocefs of law, were endeaVouring to recover an atitecedent debt, which was the cafe in a domeflicattachment. The attachment when levied is binding betwecrt
the-parties; but it does not afFe& the legal relation of a Judgment
ob.tained by another'perfon; and the cafe cited from Co."B.L. is
that of in execution taken out, but not levied. See Prec. in (,han.

478.

With refpe& to the omiflion of continuances, he anfwered, that
itthere wag any thing to enter them from, and day has been given
to the Defendant from time to time, then the do&rine and authorities of the adverfe Counfel would apply. But, he infifted, that.
-Where day was given to the Defendant, and, afterwards, nothing
Was done in the caufe, the contihuances could not be arbitrarily
entered in the manner fuggafed by the Defendant's Counfel.
After confideration,

THE CHIEFr JUSTICE

delivered the op,-.ion

of the Court, in which he declared, that he and his brethren were
unanimoufly of opinion with the Plaintiff, on the cafe fated ; and
dire6ted Judgment to be entered accordingly.
Judgment for the Plaintiff,'

PRIMER,

E

Plaintiff in Err. verfus

KUHN.

R-ROR from the Common Pleasof PhiladelphiaCounty. On the
trial of the caufe below, (See ant. 226) a bill ot exceptions
"cheCourt in the following words:
to the leopinion
-aas
."- taken
refpafsfYur
Cafe, inof the
Conmnn Pleas,PhiladelphiaCounty:
• And now the 6th day of February 1788, upon the trial of this
, caufe, the Council for the Defendant, ufider the Pleas of Non df"fitmpfit, payment, and defalcation, and, in order to maintain the
fame ifflue, offered to give in evidence a certain bond, or obliga:'tion, of the faid Ludwig Kuhn (prout obligation) affigned (prout
affignment) entered into by the faid Plaintiff, before his difcharge
undpr the ljpfolvent A&, 4nd prkyed, that the monies thereon
" due

