SMUrnMa -Cou~t of Pnns5-ahrnia.

175

executors, or authorized by them, unlefs the. contrary" -ppear.
3 Salk 74. 3 Leon. 62,
With refpe& to the obfervation, that an award -is to be interpreted by its own words, and not by any matter out of it, it is law;
but when the words of an award have relation to things certain,
,out of the award, thefe things may be averred. r Rolls i4hr. 264,
-Stik 365. .. C. And, therefore, as the Executors 6f yohn Grier
deceafed are perions certain, we think that it may be averred, who
they are by name, as has been done by the replication in the prefent
cafe, were fuch averment neceffary 4 for it is only explaining more
particularly what was contained in the award itfelf.
Upon the whole, the court is of opinion, that the a.ward in this
zafe is good. Let judgmenf be entered for the Plaintiffs.

L .

B

verfus B z D D x s.

O

N the trial of this caufe, Lewis, for the Defendant, offered
evidenc6 to prove what was the money meant to be paid by
the contra& entered into between the Plaintiff and Defendant,
imder the Words current lawful money; and cited Morris v.uJbarton.*
Sergtant objeed to the evidence, and cited x Ak. 44.7. a State
Lawi'494. .Dav. Ae. 48. 7 .
Current lawful money, by the pofitive words
Br TZIHCouRT.
of the A& of Affimbly,. means fuch money as is current at the time
of entering into the contra& ; and, perhaps, the evidence offered,
would• not fo much contradi& the contra& itfelf, as that, A& of
Affembly: it would be to fubifantiate an agreement in dire& oppofition to-the law. The cafe in Davis, if we could be bound by it
at all (which we do not think -we can, fri, becaufe it is not a judicial determination ; and, fecondly, becaufe it is before Judges in
Ireland) would be in favor of -the Plaintiff, if it had not-been for
this A6t of Aflembly. But, indeed, if this evidence were admitted,
it would open a door to fuch a fcene of litigation, that, independent of the A&, the argument ah inconvenionti never applied in
greater force.
The evidence was accordingly over-ruled, and the Plaintiff voluntarily fuffered a Nonfuit.

KERLIN's Le,§ee

TiHIs

verfus BULL et al.

caure now came before the court on a fpecial verdi&, returned upon the trial of an ejeament for a meffuage
and lands in the townfhip of BaJl-Yhiteland, in the county of
Chteflter. It was ably argued on the 27 th of April, by Sergeant and
Bradfordfor the dfendants: and Lewis and Jfilcocks for the plaintiff;
and,
*

d.

Z5g*

1786-

