86

C

C.sa

ruled and. adjudged in tme

31784.
RESPUBLICA

verfus

DOAN.

Aof

ARON DOAN, being attainted of a rolbbery in the county
Bucks, by procefs of Outlawry, he was brought before the
Court on the 24th day of Septlember 1784; and, after hearing his
Counfel upon feveral exceptions to the outlawry, (which were all
over-ruled) execution. was awarded againit him on the 9 th day
of Oaober. The following correfpondence then took place between the Honorable the Supre;ie Executive Council, and the judges;
in the courfe of which feveral important points of law were flated
and confidered.*
On the -22d of NAovm r 1784, the Prefident and Supreme Ex:.
ecutive Council addreifed the following letter to the Judges.
Gentlemen,
WE have perufed, and attentively confidered, the tranfcript of
the record tranfmitted by you, of the attainder of Aaron Doan; and
as it appears to us, a cafe of a novel and extraordinary nature,
which, being once eftablifhed as a precedent, may greatly affe&t
the lives, liberties, and fortunes, of the Freemen of this Commonwealth, we cannot, confiftently with our ideas of duty, ifflue a
,warrant for his execution, until the doubts and difficulties that prefent themfelves to our view, are removed.
TQ take away the life of a man without a fair and open trial'
upon an implication of guilt, has ever been regarded as fo dangerous a praice, that the law requires all the proceedings in fuch
a mode of putting to death, to be " exceedingly nice and circum*tantial" as Blackflone fays; and "any fingle minute point omitted,
or.mifcondu&ed, renders the whole outlawry illegal, and it may be
reverfed ; upon which reverfal the party accufed is admitted to plead
to, and defend himfetf againft the indi&ment." 4. Blackflone 315.
This liberality of fpirit feems to have advanced with the im-:
provement of the human mind, and of thofe laws, from which
our own are compofed : For, by the flatute of 4 & 5 ff. & M.c. 22.
wifely and benevolently reciting, that, " it is agreeable to juftice,
that proceedings in out-lawries in criminal cafes, fhould be as public and notorious, as in civil caufes, becaufe 'the confequences to
perfons out-lawed in criminal cafes, are more fatal and dangerous'
to them, and their pofterities, than in any other caufes ;" it was
enaaed, that, ,'upon iffuing an exigent in a criminal cafe, there
lhould
As the opinons giveh, upon tMs ocenfion, have governed frveral fufequent

"f'es,
Iat,.- r"7*-'-ed, it will not be thought improper to infert them here,
thingh they do not tome within the ftri& idea of judicial decifions.

SUPREME COURT of I-ennfylanta.

87

1hould ifue a proclamation, according to the form of the flatute 1
74..
made in the one and thirtieth year of Q$een Elizabeth" &c. And
the firft mentioned ftatute was made perpetual by the 7 & 8 ;V. 3
c. 6.
Itis our defire to regulate our conduc by the juft maxims, and
generous principles, that have been eltablihed, for keeping under
proper diretions, and re[araining within proper limitations, this
men.acing part of jurisorudence.
We fhall, therefore, be obliged, if you will be ple-afed to take
the ilueftions now propofed into your confideration, and to favor
us with your anfwers.
Firfl.-Whether the proceedings in this care are founded on
common law, the AS for the advancement of juftice, or on any
other, and what aCs of Aaimbly, or of Parliament?
*Second -- Whether there have been any, and what modern infrances in England, prior to our Declaration of Independence, of
perfons being executed upon outlawry byjudcialproceedingsalone?
Third.-Whether there has ever been any, and what inflance in
Pennfylvania,.of a perfon being executed upon outlawry by judicial
proceedings alone.?
Fourth.-Isfuch a mode of attainder compatible with the letter
and fpirit of the Coihflitution of this State, which efLtblilhes, with
fuch ifrong fanions, the right of trial by jury .- See fe&ion the
ninth of the Declaration of rights-feclion the twenty-fifth of
the Frame of government, &c.
F fth.-What authorities and precedents are confidered as rooft
applicable to the prefent cafe f
Sixtb.-If this outlawry is principally founded on the aS for the
advancement of juftice, do not'thefc words, " attainted of the crime
whereof he is fo indiaed or appealed as aforefaid, and from that
time thall forfeit and lofe ;ill his lands and tenements, goods and
chattel s;" imply by force of the copVlative, " and," that this forfeiture was the.penalty defigned to be incurred by fuch an outlawry,
and may not the word " execfution" irt the following part of the
claufe, as it is conneaed with the word " trial," be reafonably applied to the other criminals there mentioned, fo as to render it confiftent with the preceding penal expreflibns ? And is not this confirution, in favor of life, Itrengthened by the improbability, that
the legiflature of Pennfylvania intended to make the law in this cafe
more fanguinary here, than the law of England at that period,
which, it is apprehended, required one or more writs ofcaias-an
exiget-jive exa ns-at five a&fltrent county courts-a proclanalion at the door of a plate for divine worthip, &c. beforean outlawry
could be incurred, 'rernaine'sP. C. i8.&c.-Statutes before mentioned-Hae-Hawkins-Bacon-Blackflone.
Seventh.-As the perfon was brou ,ht into the Supreme Court by
Habeas Cus.ought not judgment to have been expre'ly pronounced,
as the reafon afligned ot judgmenat not being pronounced " afreih,"
in f.atdiis ca.., Who was brought ikito the King's Bench by Hab9aa;

88

-C.,sza ruled u

adjvdged in tho

ta: arpus i§."it having been pronounced before :" And -in th#
~.Jcafes ot Stafford,Barqfead, Ohey, and Corhet, who weie attainted

1784.

by a& of parliament, (cafes nearly refembling this) " the Chief
Juflice pronounced the ufual judgment as in cafes of high treafon."
Boflror 44.
Eighth.-If all the prbceedings ii the prefent cafe are as rigidly
exa& as the law requires, in this uncommon mode of taking away
life, ought Council to form a new kind of warrant for execution,
thereby ordering, that on a certain day the offender be hanged by
the neck till he be dead, or order in the warrant, that on a cetain
day execution be -done upon ihe offender, leaving the fheriff to
decide what is th6 punifhment by law to be inflided ?
. It would be agreeable to us, if you, gentlemen, would alfo be
pleafed to confider, whether the outlawry in the prefent care, mby
not be legally reverfed, and-the offender brought -to a trial. for
thefe defe6ts in.the proceedings.
Firf.-By the ad for the advancement of juffice it is dire&ed,
"" that the capias fhall be returnable before the juftices of that court,
where fuch party fhall be indided or appealed,- at the Supreme
or Provincial Court next after the taking of fuch indi&ment or appeal ;- and that the party fhall be called on by proclamation " to
appearhefore the faidjufticts at the faid Supreme Courti" and it is
fet forth in the indi6dment in the prefent cafe, that it was taken at
c a Court of Oyer and Zerniimner and general Gaol Delivery ;" but, the
rapias in the prefefit cafe direts the party to be called on by proclamation, to -" appear eftore the jitflices of the Supreme Court." 'Tis
true, the fame perfons are juffices of both c6urts ; but, the title of
that court where tbe partyfiallhe indiated," . exprefsly required by
the a&, is omitted.
Second.-It is not returned by the fheriff, that the party was
called on by proclamation, 1"to anfwer to the Commonwealth," as
by the act aforefaid, and by the capias is direted.
Third.l-t is not fet forth that the capias was " delivered to the
fheriff three months before the return thereof," as the fame. aft re-quires : Nor does the fheriff even return, that he made the proclamations by vifrtue of the faid capias.
The proclamations might be made without the writ; and
though it may be inferred, that they were not, ought inferences
againil the accufed to be admitted in a cafe fo highly penal?
Fourth -Is not the form of the proclamation prefcribed by the
ad aforefaid, and ought it not to have been ftridfly purfued ? and
does not the firft line of that form requfre the proclamation to
begin with a fetting forth of the indi&ment ?
Fih.-( )ught it not to .appear, when, and h6w, the'party was
"for the caufe a]crefaid 11FORE committed to the cuftody of the
fleriff of the City and County of Phila'aelphia," or at leaft, that%it.
wasJubfequent to the proclamations in Bucks County.?
8i tt .- The aft beforememtioned, and the capias, order the fleTiff to "ma k proclamation in every Court of .yarter Seflions," &c.
but.

SuttR-zi 'Couki- of APnnfy vanao

89

but the rh~rif-returns that he "caufJ public proclarnati"i" to r78..
be made at two feveral courts of quarter fefflions," &c, The *drd
" at" is uncertain. So is the-word "prblic." Neither of them is
ufed in the a6L, The requiring " thynherif'to make the proclam'ations," appears to have been intended to oblige his attendance in
perfon at fo fol6mn a tranfa&ion, leading to fuch fatal confequences.
is not returned, that he was pre ent. As to the other "words, proclamations might be -in tome fenfe faid to be "public," and "'at
,the courts," and yet not " in the courts." Where life depends.orn
proclamations, it feems fcarcely poffible to adhere with too fcrupti1ous'an exafnefs to injun&ions pofitively'dire&ed by law, for
giving them their deftru&ive efficacy.
&wvnt.-It does not appear by the return wbe was calted on by
prolamation to appear.
The offender has reprefented to us by petition, that, at the time,
when the outlawry was rued forth aaainft him; he w'as in NewTr-, then in the poffefiron of the ]Britifh army. What regard
ought to be had to that circumfiance, you, gentlemen; can determine.
I am with Refpe&,
Gentlemen,
Your moft obedient
And very humble Servant,

John Dickinfon.

To thefe enquiries the following antwers were returned, a-ddrefed
to his Exc.ellency the Prefident in Council, on the i 5 th of Jq-'
nuary"1785.
Sir,"

W. had the honor of' receiving on the 29 th of Novemt&er aft,

the letter from your Excellencv, and the Honorable The Supreme
Exec utive Council; dated 'the,'2d of the fame month, refpe&ing
ihe cafe of ,farn"D,-an, who fiands attainted of a robbery in the
county of Buc4s, by Outlawry, and againft whom execution has
been awarded. - In this-letter the council exprefs difficulties with
regard to their ifluing the warrant for his execution, -and have defired the opinion of the judges on nine teveral queffions. Before
we gave our anfwers to thefe queftions, it was expe&ed that all the
jodges might confult'together,. in court upon -them: but, as we
now defpair of this for fonie months, we' flh:dl offer what we think
may'b Maierial oi the occafion without further delay..
Previoufly to the giving our anfwers, we beg leave to obferve,
'thatthejudges do not -hold themrelves bound to affign any reafons
for.-their judgments ; .and when they da give reafons, it isalwaysin
pubfic.:* 'This is nientiofied, that the prefent proceeding may not
be dralvn into'a precedent.
C. Se,
4;-

go
7L
-

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

We would next obfefve generally, that an outlawrykr felony, is a
tconvieim and attainder of the offence charged in the indi&ment,
and has been ai long in ufe as the law itfelf. The intention of it
was, to compel all men to fubmit to the laws of their country, and
to prevent their efcapingjuftice; by flying, and flaying away, until
all the witneffes are dead. It is a very important part of the criminal law; and we do not find an occafion, where any queftion of
law, upon a writ of error to reverfe an outlawry in a criminalcafe,
ever underwent a ferious litigation, before that of 7ohn ;V'lles,
Efquire, in 177o.*
If there be any thing improper in taking away the life of a man
upon an attainder by ajudicial outlawry, it belongs to the legiflatureto alter the law in this particular; the judges cannot do it. But
council can interpcfe their mercy.
In our anfwers,_ we fhall refer to the queftions, in the order they
are placed in your Excellency's letter, without inferting them
here.
Anfwers to the Queftions.
Fit-f. The proceedings in this cafe are founded on the A& of
Aflembly, intitled, " An a& for the advancement of juftice, andmcre certain adminifiration thereof."
Second. Our law books do not inform us, except very rarely, of
the executions of capital offenders ; they arc generally to be found
ii the hiftories of the times, or in the periodical publications; and,
therefore, we cannot mention with certainty any modern inflances
in England, prior to our Declaration of Independence, of perfons
being executed upon outlawry Lyjudicialproceedings alone; but Lord
Chief Jultice il/ansfield, in A/ilkes's cafe, expreffes himfelf thus :
Tght, in crininalcafes, is itfelf a crime. If an innocent man
flies for treafon or felony, he forfeits all his goods and chattels.
Outlawry, in a capitalcafe, is as a convieYionfor the crime: And
many men, 11ho never were tried, Lave been executed upon the out4
lazty." 4 Burrow. '2549.
Third. We do not know of any inflance in Pennfylvania, of a
perfon being executed upon outlawry by judicial proceedings alone:
But a certain David Dawon was executed, fince the Dcclaration
of Independence, in coniequence of an attainder by virtue of a
proclamation of the Supreme Executive Council, and judicialproeecdings thereupon. In that cafe, the Court awarded execution, by
i.*ronounding the ufualfentence of death ; no judgment having been
g'.en before.
Fourth. Wte conceive, fuch a mode of attainder compatible with
-he letter and fpirit of the Conflitution of this State, and that it is
o infringement of the righ;t of trial by. jury ; for, that the party
.d not that trial, was owiug to himkl ; he was not deprived of
the
Sct : .. H.

.Isl .

.

=5. 207. &,r. 4 Burr.

454:. 2S49- 2 HAYl, 208. 4 -Burr.

SUPREMN

COURT

of Ptnnfyfvanza.

or

the right. As well, indeed, might an offender, who confeffed the fa& x,78.
in court, by pleading guilty to the indiment, after fentence, complain.that he had not a trial by jury. By refuling to take his trial,.
he tacitly feems to have admitted himfelf guilty. .2 Hawkins fo.
'170 Chap. 23.fic. 53- 2 Halt 2o8.
Fitb. We conceive, all the authorities and precedents of~ outlawries in capitalcafes at common law in England, as applicable to
the prefent cafe ; there-being no difference, but in the form and
maxner of prbceeding to the outlawry, which is made by the bafore-mentioned A& of Aflembly.
, In particular we would refer council to 4 Burr. 2527 and to 2577,
"wftere almoil all the authorities are colle&ed togetherrnid fully
confidered.
Sixth. In the A& foi the advancement of juRice, &c.fec. 17. the
Legiflature have declared, " that the party indi&ed of a capital offence, not yielding his body to the fieriff at the return of the capias,
fhall be, by the J uftices of the Supreme Court, pronounced" outJawed, -and attaintedof the crime whereof he is fo indi&ed. And
from that ti-ne flhall'foifeit all his lands and tenements, goods and
chattles: which forfeiture, &c. after debts paid, fhall go, one 'half
to the Govefnor for the time being, &c and for defraying the
chargei of profecution, trial and execution of fuch criminals." Had
the claufe ceafed at the end of the words " attainted ot the crime
whereof he is fo indi&ed," ao doubt remains with us, but that the
party was liable to fufier all the pains of death prefcribed by*law
(or the offence fpecified in the indi&ment ; and the words following, fo far from altefing this. confruaion, in our opinion, (hew,
by the moft neceffary, evident, and ftrong imphcation, that the
party was liable alfo to be executed; for the expences of the execution'are to be defrayed out of his forfeited eftate.-We therefore
have.no doubt, that Aa, on Doan, befides the forfeiture of his
*ftate, has forfeited his life. '
Seventh. We conceive, that, where a perfon is attainted by an
A& of Parliament or Aifembly, and is brought. before the court,
and"execution awarded, the pra&ice moi generally has been to do
fo, by pronouncing the -exp refs fentence ; and the reafon given for
it, is, becaufe no judicial fentence had been pronounced btore ;
but in cafe of an outlawry by judicial proceedings only, no exprrfs
fentence is given upon the party's being brought before the court,
but merely an award on the roll, Ihat the Jherty do execution at his
p r'l, or execution awarded by the court ; becaufe .a judgment had been
given before, Judgments in criminal cafes are dividei iato two
kinds-. By "exprei fentence to the punifhment proper for the
crime, a. Judgments without any fuch ftntenc. Or the latter
there are two kinds. i. Outlawry. 2. Abjuration. Judgment of
outlawry in Englandis given by th. C'roner, and is in th'e words,
" Therefore the laid A. B. by the judgment :f the Coroner Cri
our Lord the King of the county aforefaid is outlarsd." The
party is thereby as much attainted, and ihall forfeit aad loofe -as
M 2

mnuch,

.92
7

CAszs ruled and.adjudged inthe

-. -Wh,
as if fenter.ee had been given againift him upon a verdi& or
contrtion. 2Iinch ef-aw,'467."3 In. -2. 21x2. Cro. Cro. 266. & .
A. d after'fich outlawry, if' the party is broughf "before the court
o- K.n-'s Fezh, " execution hall be awarded againif him, hut n
JCtenc/e prmcnunced, becaufe the outlawry is a judnzent, and nor
rn.
i:fl:al h;.ve two judments-for cne offence." c h-awk. chap. 48.
23.4o. 447, and the cafes there cite&
2"
But in the prefent cafi,
t ie udgment was pronounced before by this fawe Sapreme Court, that
A..t on Dean is outlawedand attaintcdq the crine wl ereof he is indid,
- ve do not thiz,k, thAt it would hive been formal to have given
a fecond exprefs judgment. This matter was -mentioned, and well
t. -drLc- by the judges, at the time they awaxdqd execution in"
the y rffent-aLe of aron Dmhn.
.bglth. 'I he judgment agaihif Aaron -Doan is, that he -isoutlawed
an ,araitedq tAe crime uhereo;f he is indlied-The record hews
that he was indi&ed of a robbery ; in -6hich cafe, the exprafs judgnent is,.,, that he fall be tkcn back to the place frorwhence he
can.e. and from thence to the place .of execution, aid there be
.h r.ged by the neck until he is dead." The judgrent.of .outlawri
in pies all this. We therefore think, that a warrant for the execution n.ay properly iffue,giving there fpecial'dir,4&ions to the fheriff.
Vv e fidtt,
'tat executions have been c'cmmanded to be d6ne by the
Cotut witZout .writ,fometimes-bpwrit; and that the King in Englaz,& ;at, by fpeci l warrants, frequently remitted part.6f the 1tunih ment and.dire&ed the reft, and changed hanging for behead
.iiig, theugh" fome have doubted.of his authority 'to do fo, in the
la, ih.ft:nLe. ;i Hawk. chap. gr.fi. 4. 5.fo'463. Finch oflqw,
4;8. -3lred. 42. Cro. Yac. 496.
h
"
N.jvth. RWe do not think, that the Outlawry, in.the prefent cafe
can, at this fh'ge of the bufinefs, be legally reverfid. The feveral
critical and veibal obje&ions, dow .flatel by Council, as well as
nmot of thofe preceding ivere made at the bar, in-behaffof the
plifoner, by hii counfel learned inthe law, anfwered by the profe"cut.r for th Commonw/ealth, and over-ruled by the.Court, uport
fail difkuTion and'mature confideration. The Court cannot mihk
errors, nor reverfe for errors which do not ex?, or which 'they cannotfJee: They muft b fatisfied, that there are.rrots. Theremay,
.thaps, be fome fn-,allmiftakes in the trmfcrjpt of the record by
the Pothonot.ry, as we have not feen it, but there is no error in
the record itfelt, that we have been able to difcover. There has
nevter been a queftion ferioufly litigated in..Xomin -'all.upon a
writ ot error to reverfe an Oqtlawry "na c4pjtql caf
Such a writ
Vas never granted,' but from juftice, where there really was eftor,
or from .fvor, wher the King Iwas willing the. Outlawry Thould be.
reverfed: They are grantable merely ,x gratia Regis, and when
granted, there never Uas any oppofitiori made, and tie'Courts refie-d them ,.pon filgIt and trvial objedions, -t'hich. could not
have prevailed, if 'oppofed; 'or the precedent had been of. any confequence;. which could not be, as the.King bad the. power to refufe
the

.

SUPREM

COURT of Pernzflvania.

the writ; Al was bycon.ent -of the -King; add tho re erfaltook i74

place, though there was really no error at all.
It is as much a breach of duty, to reverfe a go6d, as it would be
-to afirm a bad outlawry. The mif~hief goes farther-than an un-ightetus fentenca" in the.particular cafe "ir
f ", to.reverfe without
an error, is to abolifh that part of the law.
Your Excellency further i.nforms us, that the offender ha- alledged in his petition to council, that lie was iithe city of New.2orkat the time the outlawry was .fued Torth againf him. I.=i aunfwei to this, we can only fay with certainty, that if hie had put afri
material fa& in-iflue, it would have been tried.
Upon the whole,' three -indi&cments for robbery have been fqund
againit him in Bucks county . by. the, examinations of j1ee ickers,
Solomaon Vickers, "7ohn I olinfon, Ifrael Dan, Jofeph .Doan, &. hM
was a.principal in thein- and eight.or nine:othersin that county,
and thecounties of Philadelpbia,(4hejr and LaanciAr; he has beea
duly outlawed for one.of.them, and execution legally awarded, aqoording to our.jiidgments.
We have the honor to be, with the greatefi refpe&,

sir,

Your ExcelLency's- nd the CouncFsi
Moft obedient -humble.Servant:,

Thomas M'Xean.
Georpe Bryan. Jacob Ruh.-

HAW4TO
Ns

1eFee verfus

GALLOWAY.

A DEED proved by the.-aiidavt of
one of the. witnefTes before
aJuffice',f the Cour -ofComznon Pleas, but not recorded, was
offered in evidepce.
It was objefed, howe.yer, that tltis afteaation is no proof of tha
deed at connron,baw,. unlefs it be an ancient deed, and poffeffibn is
proved to have gone, iloog with -it
; for, the witnefs ought to appear
in Coprt.-.Nor isit admiiflible un4er the 7 of 4ffmbly, for that
-xprefsly requires itto be recorded..
ites'anfwerea, tliat the point had already' been ruled in M'DI,.
verfus MDil.*
And, By :rJ-i
CoURT: The deed may be read in evidence;
torfthe recoiding does not contribute to the proof of the deed,
which
* Ast. 6a.

