94
1784.
"
_

CAsEz ruled and adjudged &e.

which is ellablifhed by the oath before the juftice ; the recording
only gives the deed a fpecial operation.by the exprefs provifions of
the A&t of Affemblv.*

BURKE' ' Lefee verfus RYAN.
"E JECTMENT.-On the trial of this caufe, in deducing the
.,lplaintiffs' title, a theriff's deed was produced, but no part of
the record recited therein.
Sergeant contended, that if the title was fet forth, it was neceffary to prove every part of it; that between the parties, the Fi.fa.
and Ved. Exp. may only be fhewn ; but that againit a firanger, the
pleadings, verdi&, and judgmenti ought to be produced. Gilb. L.

tfE. 9 . 10.

On aquefton from the oppofite counfel, Sergant admitted that
in New-7erey, it was not the praaice to produce more than the
fheriff's deed ; but infifted that, of late, it had been frequently required, and that in ftri&nefs, it was indifpenfibly neceffary.
But, ]'B rT~i Cou~R :-As the poffeffion has gone more than
twenty years along with the deed, it is unneceffary, in this cafe, to
require farther proof. And the CHiEF'JusTiCE added, that within his knowledge, it had not been cufLomary, in any cafe, to pro.
duce the record.
Lewis and Mifflin for the plaintiff'.-rgeantfor the defendant.

HIGHT verfus WILSON.
Tf

HIS was a feigned ilTue to try the validity of awill, againft
the probate of which, a caveat had been entered in the Regifter's Office. The plea was infanity in the teflator ; and evidence
was given of habitual drunkenfie'rs,, old age, weaknefs -of -body,
lhortnefs of memory, and a few incoherent expreflions. The jury
however, in a very fhort time, gave a verdi& for the'plaintiff in the
iffue, who was the devifee in the will.
'The CHisF JUSTICE, in his charge to the jury, informed them,
ift. That it was not neceffary that a will, devifing real eftate in
this Commonwealth, fhould be fealed. 2d. Nor that all the fubfcribing witneffes hould prove the execution. 3d. Nor that the
proof of the will (hould be made by thofe who fubfcribed as witneffes. 4th. Nor that the will fhould be fubfcribed by the witneffes.f
HIGH
*This aure was tried at Carll/e N. P. 02 th '4th
M'IkEA3, C. 7. ATLZa and Rvm, _,,ftiat.
t Se*.fl Lwi, Appellaxt ,rf Mizrh Appellee.,

*ff,

ay 1154, beferc

