CA sEs ruled and adjudged in the

• 270
1788.

torney without power of fubftitution; for, the attorney cannot ex-4

Sceed the letter of his authority, being nothing more than an agent

himifelf. But each partner is a principal; and it i; implied in the
very nature of their connexion, that each has a right to depute and
appoint a clerk to a& for both, in matters relative to their joint intereft.
Verdi& for the Defendant.
Ingerdl for the Plaintiff-Bradfordfor the Defendant.
STEINMETZ

et al. vcrfus CURRIE.

'THIS a&ion, brought by the indorfees of a bill ofexchange, againfi
J ore
n of the indorfors, now came on for a jecoid trial. *
It was very ably difcuffed by Ingerfill for the Plaintiit, and Sergeant
and Bradfordforthe Defendant ; but, as the circumfiances an., prnciples o.the cafe, kre accurately preferved in the charge of the court,
it is unneceffary to give any other 1iatement of the fa6ts or arguments,
than that delivered by the CHIEF JUSTICE.
M'KEAN, Chif uflire.-This is an aaion of very confiderablh
importznce, not only'as itaffcas the prefent parties, but as it affet&s
every holder, drawer, or indorfor of a bill of exchange. The'honor
and juftice of the State are, indeed, likewife interefted, that the decifion fliould be conformably to the general inercantile lav of nat:ons, left a dtviation fhould be imputed to our ignorance, or difiefpe&, of what is right .nd proper. It fhould be remembered too,
that the Dfendant is a firanger, and that the event of this fuit can
be zo further obligatory elfewhcre, than. as it correfponds with
the niverfal and cttablifhtd ufage of all countries ; for, upon the
prefent queftion, that, and not the local reglations of Pennfylvania,
muft furnifh the rule of determination.
It appears, then, that one Whitelaw, on the 3 oth. of OZ5toAer,
'775, drew a bill of exchange for C339. 18. fterling, upon JXiviam,
.- ouflon,.malfter, and Co. in .Refrew, near Glafgow, in favor of 7ames
J~itkerfpoon, or order, and payable on the rit day of Iiugjl, 1776.
This bill, afterwards, but it is not certain at what period, Pfiit.erfpoon indorftd to Curtie the Defendant, N-ho fometime in the year
1777 indorfed it to Meffirs. .4rchibaldandJohn Bla;r, and thofe gentlemen, before the month of OR7ber, 1778, indorfed it to Jfohn
.Pringle, by whofe fubfequent indorfement, it became the property
of Steinn:etz and Bell, the Plaintiffs ifi
this caufe. It appears further, thatSteinmetz and Bell on the 19th of Oerober, 1778, indorfed"the
bill of exchange to Mr. Freeman, who is now dead, and by whom,
in -his life time, it was tranfmitted to 11-7lliam C~wpland of London.
The bill feems to have been fpeedily and regularly indorfed after it
came into the hands of the Plaintiffs; and Cowpland, having duly receivcd it from Mr. Freeman, demandcd payment of the perfons
upon whom it was drawn or the 3 oth of December, 1778, when it
was protefied on account of their refufal, for which they afligned
reafons,
XOIfe

2~34.

SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvanla.

27Z

rearons, that can have no effe& or relation to the caufe. The no- 1788.
tice of this protfL" was received by Freeman's executor, f 7fliam Sitgreaves, on the z 3 th of April, 178o, and he gave notice to Meifrs.
Steinmetz and Bell on the -8th of the fame month; but thofe gentleinen did not untill the x6th of Oe7Oher, 1782, give any njotice to Cur-i, the Dfendant, who was arrefted the day followving to anfwer in
this aaion.
Thefe are the material faas ; and, on them, we are not to enquire,
how it happened that the bill lay three years, from the time of
drawing to the time of protefling it: for, as between indorfor and
indorfee, every indorfor is confidered as a new drawer. The defence, however, is on this fingle point, that the Plaintiffa had notice on the 28th of Jpril, i78o, and yet gave none to the Defendant
untill the L7th of Qcober, 1782, a period of two years anda half, except twelve days. Whether that was a reafonable time, will d
upon the circunflances of the cafe. It appears that the Plail-Iff
lived in Philadelpha,and the Defendant, when he fold the bill, lived
at F./bkill in the Itate of New-York, about 130 miles off. This, in
point of diftance, is not fo great, but that he might have been
found, or, at leaft, rome enquiry made after him, much fooner.
We are, therefore, unanimoufly of opinion, that the delay has been
unreafonable ; but if they have fatisfad.rily accounted to the Jury for
that delay, their verdi& will be in fkvor of the Plaintiffs. Were
it, however, before us, on a fpecial verdi&, we lhould certainly determine, that itisanunreafonabletime.
Itisalledged, that the difficulties of the war prevented the giving
notice, and that the Plaintiffs could not bring their a&ion, unil
they were in pofleffion of the bill. But is that true ? Could not notice be given, not, ithflanding the war? They faw the bill and.
proteft in the hands of Sitgreaves,and they knew they became refponfible. It was, therefore, their duty to provide for their indemnificat~on and to give immediate notice. Nor could there be any great
difficulty in finding the Defendant, for he appears to have been a
man of note, in extenfive bufinefs, and dealt, at that very time,
with Prngl, another indorfor 91 the bill, who lived in Philadephia,
and from whom information might have been obtained. There is,
perhaps, an honeft and a reafonable ground for not giving notice untill after the 2oth of May, 1780, left the money fhould be paid in de-

vhen that danger
preciated paper. But two years more elapfed, money.
was over, by the extinguifhment of continental
It has been faid, likewire, that when the drawer has noeffets in
hands, no notice is neceffary ; but it has been determined otherwife,
as between indorfor ahd indorfee, upon the clearefi principles. What
is it to the indorfee whether the drawer has effedls or not? Every indorfor is in law a new draw. r, and he may be compelled to pay a

bill, even where the name of the drawer has been forged. Every
day s experience thews that billsare taken on the credit of the indorfor alone-.fometimes when the drawer is totally unknown, Nor
can

-271
1788.
L.,e,.J

CAszs ruled and adjudged, in the

can' it be alledged, that no injury has'been fuflained, fince in the
courfe of things, all the prior indorfors might have failed.
Upon the ihole, we think the ftrength of the evidence is againi
the Plaintiffs; and if the Jury are of the fame opinion, they will find a
verdi& arcqrdingly. But if, on the contrary, they are fatisfied with
the'reafons given for not ra2king an earlier demand, they will find
for them.
The opinion of theCourt being fo unfavorable to the Plaintiffs,
they voluntarily fuffeed a nonfuit, when the Jury were at the bar
ready to return their verdi&. "
In the courfe of the Trial, the Plaintiff; offered John Pringle,
(their immediate preceeding indorfor) as a witnefs ; and, in order
to do away his interefi in the alion, they propofed ftriking his name
ofF thefi'rfl and third bills.of the fet; which were the only bills in
their poffeflion, thefecond, on which the proteft was made, being,
V-they alledged, loft in its paffage from Englandto ,merica.
It was obje&ed by the Defendant, that Prngle's name would
fRill remain upon thefecond bill (which, for any thing that appeared
-to the contrary, might be in the hands of a third perfon) and on the
records of the notary, who made the proteft; fo that he could not
be effe&ually difcharged in the way propofed.
To this, the Plaintiffs counfel replied, that, -where there are
feveral fecurities for the fame thing, a difcharge of one is a difcharge
of the whole ; and they inflanced the cafe of a taptain of a fhip, who
ufually figns three bills of lading, of the fame tenor and date.
But, BY THE COURT: In that cafe, if the captain takes a receipt, he would certainly be difcharged. In the inflance before us,
however, thefecond bill may be in the poffellion of a bonafide purchafer, who will be entitled to fue Py ingle upon it, notwithftanding any
We are of opinlion, that
a& of tlhe Plaintiffs on this occafion.
Pringle is clearly interefied in the caufe, and, therefore, inadmiffibl
as a witnefs.
It was fuggefled, that if the Plaintiffs executed a releafe to Pringle,
he might be made a witnefs ; but Ingeroll, doubting whether a releafe to one indorfor, would not be a releafe to all, did not chufe to
adopt this meafure.
It was alfo ruled, in this caufe, that the cafe in rerm Riports,
being a determination upon general mercantile law, was of authorify here; and that it would have been fo, if it had been determined
in France,8paih, or Holland, as well as in England.

MI11LIN et al. verfus BINCHAM..

T1ffE

Plaintiffs, being difappointed in their evidence, voluntarily
fuffered'a nonfuit. The following points, however, were refolved in the courfe of the trial, to illuftrate which, it is neceffary to
relate the leading circumflances of the cafe.-The Plaintiffs were
owners

