gurixmE Coutz

of Fennfylvan;.

265

WALTON verfus WILLIS.

W

HERE an heir at law took an inteaate's land; at a valuation,it had been the praaice of the Orphans aurtsthroughout the State, only to require him to give Bonds totholre who were
entitled, under the A& of Aiembly, to a diitributive fhare of the
eftate.
The CHIEF JUSTICE faid, in the courfe of the argument in this
caufe, that the pra&ice above mentioned, was illegal hnd imnproper;
for the Orphans Courts ought, inftead oi Bonds, which are a mere
perfunal fecurity, to take Recogn;zances, by which the la,.ds themfelves would be bound for the payment of the diftribur ve hares.
He added, that the Court would notenter into a retrofpel upon this
fubje&; but that, for the. future) they would expe& a conformity to
the opinion now'given. *

HENRY

Exor. verfus Risx et al.

THIS was an a&ion brought for goods fold and deliverel in the

city of Philadelphia, the Plaintiif having charged intereft uion
his account, after allowing fix months credit. U0pon the trial it
was admitted, that the nett amount of the goads had been paid; and
the counfel on both fides agreed, that, whether the intereft ought to
be allowed ? was the only queflion in the caufe.
Ingerfdll for the Plaintiff. A Jury may give intereft, by way of
damages. in an a&ion for goods fold and delivered, when it is the
agreement of the parties, when the Plaintiff has been vexatiouflv
kept 6ut of fiis money, or when it is the cuftom of the trade. Doug.
36t. He then offered to prove by witneffes, that it was the cuftom
of the trade in Philadelphia, to allow intereft in cafes fimilar to tha
prefent.
But by M'KEAN, Chief _uflice: The point has been repeatedly
determined otherwife in-this Court, as well as in the Courts of E--gland; and, therefore, witneffes cannot be admitted to contradia the
eftablifhed principles of the law. The cafe in Diuglasis confined
merely to the American .trade. The ufage has been otherwif e in
Ptnnylvahiia, between inhabitants.
Bradford for the Defendants. Intereft Ihall not be allowed upon
an open account, for goods fold and delivered. 3 .4r7ls. 2o6. jacob's lain, vs. the Ejiate of A4dams et al. ant. 5 2.
BY THE CouPr.lThe queflion is flortly this: The Plaintiff's
tefetor having fold a confiderable quantity of good5, wares, and merchandize, to the Defendants, for which the Delendants have paid the
nett amount, lhall intereft be allowed upon the account for thefe
goods, wares, and merchandize, witlhout any notice to the Defendants,
L I
b1-.r

th. d-cifioa ia ths prinoipal care. foctp.

