SuPrEME Cour-'r

JAMES

of PennJylvama.

verfus

339

BROWNE.

HIS was an afion (f lccaunt render, brought by oae Partner
aainff another, aid feveral ifihes were joined on the pleas,.
.if of Zve unques Receiver, and 2d Fully accounted. In the declarati6n.
the Plaintiffarxd Defendant were named Merchants, and the Defendant was charged as a Receiver of monies to the joint benefit of the
company front three perfons, and the proof was of a receipt flom oneof them.
For tle Defendant, it was contended, that as he had not been,
charged as Bailff, in order to make him accountable as Receiver, it
was incumbent upon the Plaintiff to ftate in his declaration, by
whofe hands the monies were received, and to prove, accordifigly,
a receipt by the hands of fuch perfon, or perfons. Bull L. N. P.
L2L. That unlefs the proof went to all the perfons ftated in the
declaration, he failed in his afion; or. at leaft, that the verdiS
muff be contormable to the evidencej which was only of a receipt
judgment
by the handy of one, To that thethat
alone.computer, pw-fuing
receipt quod
the verdi&, muff be reftridedto
But it was anfwered, and fo ruled f.DY THE COURT in their
charge to the Jury,that, however the law ftood-in the cafe ofa Goammon.
Receiver, yet, as betiveen Co-partners, the a6ion of ",4ccountrender
would be nugatory, if the fame do6trine prevail.ed. That ifi Pennfyivania. pirticulaziy. where there is, o Court of Chancery to
compel a difclofure of the numerous and extenfive .tanfafions,
which one partner mightmanage for the joint benefit of the company, there would' be no remedy, unlefs this ation were liberally extended. That between partners, therefore, it is fufficient for the
Plaintiff to"charge the Defendant, generally, with. the receipt of the
money to their joint benefit ; and. hdving proved a receipt by the
hands of any one of the pefons -mentioned in the declaration, he is
entitled to a general verdict upon the PrJl iffue. Then, on the
judgmnt qucd computet, all the accounts between the parties will
come before the auditors, without particular refpeS to the receipts
roved upon the trial..
No evidence being offered by the Defendant , iri fupport of theficond plea, the Jury gave general verdits for the Plaintiff; upon both
i.rues:. and thereupon judgement qwud conpute -was entered.
Afterwards, when the Court were about to appoint Auditors in
this caufe, the CHI r F JUST ICE made the following obfarvations:'
M'K EA, Ch iefuflite. The neceflity of a liberal extenfion of
the acion of Account render between joint partners, is apparent,, not
only from the nature of the cafe, but from this circumfance af6,
that the paities would otherwife bedeftitute of any means to arrive it
juftic6: For the afion on the cafe, though beneficially contrued" ini
modern praice,would certainly be inadequate; and we hive noCo)Prt
of Chancery to interpofe ah equitable jurifdifion. The action of account has, we know, been almolt diiftfed in Englandfor a century
p t;
U u z-

178&

340

CASEs" rUled and adjudged &c.

x788: patl; but this is owing to the greater facility of obtaining fettlements in the tCourt of' Chancery, by a reference to the mafters;
and there are many cafes in the books which point out the expediency and propriety of the interference of that Court. If, indeed, it
had not affumed a competent jurifdi&ion in this refpe&, I am perftiaded, that, in order to accomplifh juftice, the Court of King's
Bench would have done what we are now obliged to do. For, it is'
the duty of Judges to fee the laws faithfully adminiftered, and to
promote the proper means for obtaining that end.
Hence it is, that here, in an a6lion of Jccount render between
partners, if thefe fa&s are proved-that a partnerihip exifted-that
the Defendant was -the a&ing partner--and that he received any part
of the um, from-any of the perfons mentioned in the declarationwe fliall uniformly oblige hirn to render an account of his tranfactions. It would be hard,. indeed, if, while the books and documents remain in- the hands of the Defendant, the Plaintiff were
bound toftate in his declaration every receipt in which he was interefted, and to be condemned to lofe, under fuch circumftances, his
portion of every credit he omitted to infert, in the coutfe of a mercalitile traifacfhbn, confifting, perhaps, often thoufand items.
. It fhould be obferved,' likewife, that there is a diflin&ion in the
general law as to Bailiffs and Receivers; the former being entitled
to reafonable expences, which the latter canmot fecover. This
diffin&ion, however, does not apply to the cafe of partners in trade;
for, one partner, though charged as a receiver, is entitled to every.
juft allowance againft the other.
. Nor does the verdi&-of the Jury affe& the principles of the fettlement; for, ful pofe I engage in trade with another man, and pay
into his hands a C ioo, as my lh'are of the flock; if, afterwards,
1 bring an a6aion of .ccvunt'render againft him, and the Jury- find
the receipt'of this money ;-fuch finding does not furely fix (he fum
for which he fhall'be refponfible to me, but the auditors will, neverthelefs, on the one hand, allow me a proportion of any profits
-vhii, h have. been accumulated; or, on the other hand, charge me
with a proportion of any loffes or expences that may have happened
in our joint iegoti:ions. Co. Lit. 172. a.-.fec. 259o

Bu'ZC ER verfus

COATS.

T

WO witneffies, who had been duly ferred with a Su~pana,
were brought before the Coprt-upon an attachment ; but
having fatisfa6lorily proved, thaf tlifey "ere fo much indifpofed, as
-to be utterly incapable of attending in obedJence to the SuOPena,
they were difcharged.
And, BY THE COURT: As we do not find thefe perfons irr c6ntempti the coffs of the attachment muff abide the event of the fuit."

CoMMOs

