294
1788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

Lawrence propofed reading fome cafes to fhew, that the authoriSty given to the Referees by the a& of the t arties, ought to have
been firi&Ily purfied.
-But, by THE COURT :-There would have been fornething quitable in the objelion to the report, ifonly two of the Refierees had met;
but, as it appears that they all entered on the bufinefs, though only
two 6f them have fubfcribed the report, we can confider nothing
but the evident miftake at the Clerk ; and, for that reafon alone,
Let the Report be fet afide.

TH o

sowi

verfus

YoUNG.

ON a rule to Thew caufe why an Exonerelur fhould not be entered
on the Bail-piece, it appeared, that the Defendant wa- a' refident of Maryland (though he came occafionally to Philade. bka upor
bufinefs) and was duly ditcharged under the. infcivent law of that
Srate. Upon the authority of Aililiar ve Jus hqil, ant. 229. the
rule was made abiolute.
Sergeant and Ingerf,ll, for the Plaintiff, attempted to eflablifh this
diftineftion, that, in Millarverfus Hall, the Defendant was a citizen
of Maryland, and that the money, for which the a&ion was brought.
bad been received in Baltimnore; but that in this cafe, Young, though
fometimes in Maryland, was, in fa&, a litizen of PennJytvanis, and
that the debt was contra&ed here. They acknowledged, however,
after the examination of the witneffes, that they had failed in their
proof; and, therefore. no argument was made in fupport of the
diftinion.

SWHITESIDE

verfus

OAKMAN.

y"I-IS was a Foreign 1ttachment returnable to Decfmer Term
X 1787, in which Judgment had been entered agreeably to the
ad of Affembly.
Ingtrfoll now moved for a rule to flhew caufe, why the attachment
fhould not be quafhed ; obferving, that if the fame thing might be
done in a circuitous manner, he fuppofed it could not, in this way,
•be, deemed too late: For, upon entering fpecial bail, the Plaintiff
might be called on to fhew caufe of affion; and attachments are
often fet afide where no caufe is flewn.
SHIPPEN, PreJient.-Itis very late to move for a rule of this nature. If there is a miflake in the proceedings, but not on the merits, to flhew the caufe of a&ion may be required, after fpecial bail
is entered., We hould be afraid, however, of introducing fo dangcrous a pradice as would be countenanced by granting the prafent
motion.
Ingtrfell

