COURT of COMMON PLEAS, PhiladphiaCounty.

133

prior to the judgo-ment upon it, the Court muft clearly decree a
preference to the judgment creditor. This feems indeed to be a
legiflative dire&ion as to recognizances in fimilar cafes; for, what
confuifion woula arife, from fuipoting the lands of deceafe'd perfons
to be bound from one tine, and the lands of living perfons front
another ?
Upon the whole, we think, that great mifchiefs and dangers
would be impofed upon honeft purchafors, if, at this time of day,
we fliould unfettle what has been fo long the general opinion and
pra ice on this fubje&. Therefore,
Let the plaintiff take preference only from the-date of the judg.
oent on the SireFacias.
SHOEMAKEr

verfus

SHIRTLIFFE.

1 'f-E"

defendant had executed a bond, with warrant of attorney
to confefs judgment to the plaintiff. The bond was payable
on the i 't. of September 1785 ; but there was no provifion for a itay
of execution, till that time, inferted in the warrant of attorney.
The plaintiff ij'ued a Fi.fa. before the ift of September, and Da!las for the defendant, moved to fet it alide.
THE COURT were of opinion, that theiwarrant of attorney reciting the bond, was only an infirument fubfervient to it; and, confequently, that the execution could not be iffhed, ;ill the time gi%;en
for payment was expired.
TIe execution fet afide.

BuRROWS

verfus

HEYSHAM.

[CRE F2CI1S aainift the bail, and the judgment removed by
writ of error. Jpon the iifiing of a Certiorarito bring up the
Tecord, the pl-!intiffs moved to anend the Scire Facias by the record,
fubifituting September i782 for D eccx;ber i781. The motion hazd
been argued at tli lait term, and now came on for a ftcon,- argiunent.
On the part of the.defendant, it was faid, that as the cauf had been
removed, by writ of error, this Court had no longer any jurifdidion over it; but this objeCtion'was not infitcd upon. Thug. 1o.
i1o. and CuoP. 841. 844. had been cited for theplaintiffon theiriiar
argumen; but thefl were cafics of'ejetmeiit; and it would overfet

the law, if other points were to be brought within the pri:ciple,
by which ejeffments are regulatcd. With refpe& to amrendin-nts
ljthe it1tutes of je0fid,,, they were only in matters of form.; but
tld

i7a5.

