'COURT of COMMON PIEAs. FbilP4soohiaCout.

"

X4

,tica in obtaining it, although it was money which the party could 17'85..
not recover by la v,this a&ion has never been fo far extended as to _
-enable the party who paid the money voluntarily, to recover it back
again. The cafe or Lowrey v9 Bourdieu in D5ug. 42;, and that of
Farmer vs drundl in 2"Black. R. 825, are full to this point.
In the prefent cafe the defendant had prefented the bill to the
drawee for acceptance; and on refufal got it protefted. Shortly after,
and before th-.day of payment, an arrt irom the King of France
prohibi.ts the creditors oi the drawee from fuing him; upon which
the bill was immediately ient 5ack, and Mr. Morris, without waiting fbr a prite.t for non payment, voluntarily takcs up the bill and
pays the damages. A proteit for non payveni, however, appears to
have been made in Frznce before the money was paid by Mr. Marris, although he did not know it. The defendant has ated with
fairnefs, and lain out of his money, and might with a good confcience receive the legal damages,
The point of law principally agitated in this caufe, whether a
proteft for non acceptanct only, is fufficient to recover the money
from the drawer, is not material to be determined in this a&ion,
,becaufe, as it is voluntarily paid, and the defendant might onfiftent
with juffice receiye it, whether that point of law is for, or againft
the plaintiff; we think he cannot recover the money back.
Judgment for the defendant.
HENDERSON

verfus ALLEN.

judgment had been entered at the fettlement of the docket, and
the defendant was taken in execution on a Ca. Sa. returnable
to December Term 1785. He now applied for the benefit of the
infolvent a&s, although he was not taken in execution till the 26th
of Septembr, and his petition was preferitted fubfequent to the application raade by the debtors, on the third day of the term.
Tm COURT faid that the praffice under the aa for the relief
bf infolvent debtors, was, that only thofe fhould be difcharged,
-who made their application within the three firi days of the term;
for, otherwife, the Court might be continually employed on this bu*finefs, to the delay and detinent of every other.
The Prothonotary inentioned, on this occafion, that it was the
.conftant pratice to enquire, whether the writ of execution was
returnable to the term, at which the defendant applied for his
.ifcharge.
The
•
petition wa4 difmified.
.Bnkfon for theplaintif-Rawle for the defendant.
A

