SUPREME COURT- of Pennfylvanla.

313

was iflued againft the Sheriff, to compel a fale of the goods; and
the queftion that now awaits the determination of the Court, is,
whether a D/ifringas, under thefe cicumftances, will lie ?
The cafe kas been well argued; but we are furprizedJ that fo few
authorities are to be found upon the fubje&. In fearching the books
of Precedents, indeed, we have remarked, that the Dlringas uniformly runs againfIt . B. nuper vice-comes, though wiih this diftinction, that, in. fome inflances, it commands him to be diftrain d 'till
he pays the m6ney into Court, and, in others, 'till the late Sheriffhas
paid it over to the prefent Sher.f. In 6 Med. 295, Lord C. 7. H::t
fays, that after the Sheriff has made his return, "levied on fpec ci
goo-s," the regular mode of proceeding is to iflue a enditioni Exponas ; that where he has returned "levied to the value," he is bound
to fell without further procefs; and that it is ufual to iffue a end.
Exp. when the Sheriff continues in office, but a D/ringas when he
has left it. In the clofe of the fame cafe, ho xever, it is likewife
Holt's opinion, that a Doringasto the Coroner will lie, even while
the Sheriff, who made the return, is in office. This we mention
for the fake of the pra&ice ; for, it is certain, that by the Fi.fa. he
Sheriffhas authority to fell the goods upon which he has levied ; -the
Venditioni only giving, by a& of Allembly an additional authority in
the cafe. of Lands.
Btrt we have enquired into the pra6lice of the Courts upon this
occafion; and, we find, that it has been the praaice of the Common Pleas, and, in feveral inflances, of the Supreme Court, to iffue
a Diflringas to the Coroner, where the Sherilf has made a return of
goods levied to the value: We are, therefore, -of opinion tha6, in
fuch a cafe, a Dilringaswill lie.
It appears
A fecondpoint, hnwever, was made in this cauce.
that a Replevin for the goods in queftiodi, had iffued to the Coroner,
and, that by virtue of that writ, he had taken theni out ofthe pofIeflion of the Sheriff; fo that the Sheriffwas unable either to produce
them, or to proceed to a fale.
The Replevin was highly irregular; an a6ion of Trefpafs being
the proper remedy for a wrongfiul levy; for, by an aa of Aifembly,
it is exprefsly declared, that goods taken in execution flal not be
replevied. 2 Slate Laws 194.
We think, therefore, that as the Replevin would have been fet
afide upon motion in the Common Pleas; and as the goods were taken
from the Sheriff under colour of law, it would be hard to iffle a
DZioringa. againft him, without a previous application to the Cour,
and its being thereupbn awarded. For this reafn alone
Let the Difringasbe quafhed.
WILLIAMS

verfus

CRAIG.

r!HIS caure being referred, a report was made in favor of the
LPlaintifffor a confiderable amount, to which the following
Rr
exceptions,

3r4
1788.
I...e'Kean,

CA-sEs ruled and adjudged in the

exceptions were filed, and argued on the irth of %Iuy, by 7. B.
Lewis, and Ingerfoll for thc Defendant ; and &-rg;entand
CoulthurA. for the Plaintiff:.
z14, Fhat the Referrees heard the Plaintiff's witneffes expartt.
2d, That they-heard the Plaintiff ex parte, without giing notice
to the Defendant.
3 d, That they have allowed intereft upon an unfettled account.
4 th, That they refufed to allow a fet off.
5 th, That the Defendant. has difcovered liew and material teifimony fince the report.
6th, That the Referrees allowed a charge for Premium arid Conmillions in making ap Infurance for the Defendant, without
requiring the Plaintiff to produce the policy, or having any
other proof that the Infurance was effeaed, than a letter
from the Plaintiff himfelf to his Partner in Philadelphia,.in
which he fays he has done it.
As the CHIEF JUSTICE, in delivering the opinion of the Court,
adverted to thofe exceptions which were groundlefs, or immaterial,
and flated thofe particularly on which their decifion was formed,
I (hall avoid recapitulating the arguments of counfel, and only
fubjoin the authorities on both fides.
M'KEix, Chief 7uylIce.-There are four fpecies of Awards:
firfi, thofe made by mutual confent, in purfuance of arbitration
Bonds entered into out of Court ; ftcondy, thofe which are made in
a caufe depending in a Court of Law or Equity, upon the confent
of the parties to refer the matter in variance (which are awards at
common law) thirdly, thofe which are made tijnder a xule of Court,
by virtue of the ftatute of 9 and IO. P. 3. c. 15. which was calculated'to remedy the delay and circuity of a6tion attendant upon
Awards made merely in purfuance of arbitration Bonds, without
thelntervention of a controuling power, to compel the acquiefcence
of the parties.-Thefe are the only Awards in ufe at this day in
England; 'bui the Legiflature of Pennfylvania, in the year 1705, introduced another fpecies here, which are fourthly, thofe awards, or
reports, that are made in purfuance of the a& of Affembly fetting
forth, that "where the Plaintiff and Defendant confent to a rule
"of Cour foi r efeig the adjuftment of their accounts to certain
"perfons mutuidly chofen by them in open Court, the award, or
"report, of fuch Referees, being made according to the fubmiffion
of the parties, and approved hy the Court, and entered upon the re" cord, or roll, fhall have the fame effe&, and be as available in
law as'a verdi& by-twelve men." I Stae Laws 48. 4 Ann. c. 36.
This a6t differs effentially from the flatute Of 4V 3. in many refpefts, but particularly, that to render a report, or award, valid and
effecqual, the former requires, that it be approved hy the Court; but
no fuch provifion is made by the latter, and, therefore, awards under rules of Court, are conclufive in England, unlefs fome corruption,

SU'PREME COURT

of Penj~lvana.

315

lion, or other inifbehaviour, in the Arbitrators is proved. The 178is.
Courts of Equity, indeed, have taken a wider ground, and where- k__V.a
ever a plain error appears eitherin matter of faa or law, it feems,
they will make itan obje& of enquiry. 2 ern. 705. r J'ern. 157.
3 Ak. 494. From fome expreflons in the authority, we might
prefume, that the error muff be apparent on the award; but as the
Chancellor, at the fame time, fpeaks generally, that it muft be fet
forth in the bill for relief, there is, at lealt, great room to doubt
upon the fubjea.
In Pennfylvania, however, fince the Revolution, as the approbation of the Court is made a necelthry ingredient in the confirmation
o t eports, we have thought it our duty, from tithe to time, to enquire into the allegations againfl: them, before we gave fhem our
fan&ion. But, in doing this, we have always confined ourfelves to
two points ;-ift, Whether there is an evident miffake in matter of
faa ; or 2dly, whether the Referees have clearly erred in matter of
law. If either of thefe is fatisfa&orily proved, the argument is,
furely, as firong for fetting a reoort afide, as where injuftice has been
done by the corruption, or other mifcondua of the Referees."
Is it not reafonable, indeed, that the fame caufe which w6uld
induce us to fet afide a verdicl. and grant a new trial, fhould be
fuficient for vacating an award? In the one cafe, the decifion is
made by-twelve men upon oath, with all the information which the
Judges, and learned Comnfel caiu communicate :-in the other, it
is the aft of three perfons, who are.not fworn to the -faithful difcharge of their duty, and who are unallifted, either in afcertaining
the l aw, or in developing the ta&, upon which the queftion fubmitted to them may depend. This abundantly tiews that the facrednefs of awards ought not to be extended beyond that of verdicts ;
and muff juftify the Court in putting them upon the fame footing,
when errors are 1lbggelled either inclear points'of law or fa&.
If, therefore, we would have granted a new triat, had the prefent exceptions been made to a verdia, we ought, for the fame reafons, to fet afide the report in queflion.
Let us, then, confider the cafe upon'its merits.-The evidence
has failed in eftablilhing thefirfl andfecond exceptions, which relate
to the mifcondua of the Referees i and, with refpe&t to thefourth
andflftb, though the Court incline to think that the arguments are
in favor of the Defendant, vet we do not find it neceirary to give any
opinion upon thefe, as we have no doubt, that, for the Ahtrd and
fixth reafons, the report ought to be fet afide.
Thus, under the third exception, it has been proved by the flatement exhibited by the Referees, that intereft was allowed to the
Plaintiff upon an unliquidated account ; which is contrary to the
general rule of law, as well as to the repeated decifions of this
Court. There are only three cafes in which iritereft can be allowed
upon an open account; ift, where it is payable by the exprefs
agreement of the parties ; 2dly, where it is payable by a genGral
ufage, as in the trade between England and .4merica, to which (with
r2
an

36

CAsEs- rule4 and adjudged in the

zSg. 46 exception during the continuaice of the latie war) we have uL--v.-.d formly acceded; and 3dly, where there has been a. vexatious and
unreafonable delay in making payment, which will induce the Court
to dire&, and the Jury to grant, an adequate compenfation, under
the name of damages, for which the rate of "interift is generally
made the rule of computation. The do~lrine upon this fubjed wai
fully difcuffed anddetermined in Henry Eror. vs. -R;i et-at ant 265.
'We think it eftablifhes a juflt and ufeful principle, which tends.
equally to promote credit, and to prevent feuds andlitigations. Ita
tranfgrelling this principle, the Referees have milaken a lear point
of law, which would alone be fufficient for fetting afide their report.
But, befides this, we find by.the evidence under the fixtb excep.
tion, "thatthey have alfo allowed the charge of premium, and commiflion for making an Infurance, without requiring the Policy. to.
be produced, or any-proof of its being loft; whizh is the only evi.dence that, -in fuch cafes, can. be admitted in any Court, either of'
civil or cbmrren" law juri!di&ion. It is," indeed, a fundamental
maxim in the laws of evidence (wifely framed for the prevention ot
frauds) that the belt proof, o? which the fa& reafonably admits,
ougtht tobazgiven. trzis has,-not betm cozriplied with on the prefent ocafion; and thereferees in over-looking it, have violated
another plain principle uf law.
Upon the whole, as our decifion agamft the Plaintiffican produce.
no material injury, but if againit the Defendant, would forever..
preclude him from a chance of juftice, TH . COURT. unatdimoully
dire&
That the Report be fet Afide.
For the PintYf'were cited :-5 Bac. 250. -f Bac. 34. a Burr.
7or. Saik. 71. 7 . 3 Burr. a259. 2ern. 705. 1 ern. 157. Bull.
L. LV. P. 170. 186. 8 in.6. x Ak.'67. 2 ,ern. 7o6. 3 P" /4as.
25. 408 3 2t'. 509.
.
For the Defi'ndant were cited :-2 Fer. 515. t.t4k. 64. 2 Vern.
705. 3 Atk. 494-- 3 Buir 1259. 5 Burr. 729 "L L.d. Pay. 27 1.
12 Vin. 25 . 35. C . 445. D . 627.
73. a
392. Gilb, L. E-.4:.5- 06. 17.

PLOWMAN
verfu4 ABRAMS.
HIS was a rert;orarito one of the Juflices of the city and county of Philadel5hia, and the proceedings being returned, it appeared, that J'wk-awn, the Defendant, before the Juitice, had appealed io the Common Pleas and entered fecurity agreeably to the aft
of Afembly-; Lut on a certificate frcm the Prothonotary of that Court,
-that the appeal was ngt filed, the Juftice iffued an execution againft
the Defendant.

Dallas

