SUPREM
TILLIER.

COURT of Pennffylvana.
I788.

ve fus WHITEHEAD.

T

HIS was a feigned iffue to try, whether the Defendant had a
legal authority to ufe the Plaintiff's name in the acceptance,
drawing, and indorfement of bills of exchange, and promiflory notes.
The care was this : Rudolph Tillier, and Clement Biddle entered into
articles of agreement on the 3 oth of January 783, by which afecal Partnerfbip was elablifhed between them. The Defendant
kJNhiteheadwas employed as a clerk by Biddle in his general tranfaaions; and a memorandum, written and fubfcribed by Biddle alone,
under two firms, that is, " Clemnt Biddle and Co." and alfo " Clement Biddl and Co. and Rudolph iier," was lodged in the Bank ;
declaring that JJhitehead's acceptances, indorfements, and drafts
under thofe firms, were good and binding on the parties. It appeared, accordingly, that I-'hitehead, as well as Biddle, had u cd thifirm of " Clement Biddle and Co. and .Ruddph rillier;" and an advertifement, fubfcribed and publifhed by 2Wie;',r himfelf, was read, .in
which notice was given, that "he had no connedion with any other
" mercantile Houfe, except that known under the firm of "Clement
" Biddle and Co. and Rudolph Tillier." There was not any prooi,
however, that Tillier knew of the authority which had been' left by
Biddle at the Bank ; but a clerk of the Bank provd that he had prefented notes drawn by J'hitehead in the firm of "Clement Biddle and
Co. and Rudolph rillier," and that on fuch occafions iMier refered
him to J//,iteheadfor payment.
It appeared alo that X'hitehead
had received the proceeds of tome damaged tea which Tillier had.
lent to the city au&ion, giving a receipt in the nune of "Clement
Biddle and Co. and.Rudolph Tidier;" that, in confequence of ihis,
Ti1ier direeted his clerk to forbid ffhitebead's medling with any more
ot his m6ney; and that fometime afterwards, Tlhier defired iffhitehead to quit his counting houfe, declaring that he h;ad nothing.to do
with him.
Two queftions ware ftlated for the Plar.ntiff
txf,Whether Clement
.Xiddle and Rudolph zIlier were partners generally, or only for certain fpecific p.urpofci;? and dly, Whether one partner can devolve
over the right ot ufing t.c firm, withot the knowledgeand concurrence of the other?
To thefirjl queftibn it N:as anfwered by the Defendant's council,
and allowed BY TH COURT, th;t the articles of Co-partnerfhip,
being res inter alios ada, the Iimitations could not be known, and,
therefore, ought not to affect the DeteAdant, if he a&ed under a legal authority,
With refpeZt to thefecond queftion, it was unanimoufly refolved
3Y THE COURT, that one, oftwo p~rtners, may give an authority
to a clerk under the firm of the houfe; and that the clerk may, in
confequence thereof, accept bills, and fign, or indorfe, notes, in the
name of the company. And it was faia by M'KEAN, C'h.fyuflice,

that this cafe could not be properly ccmpared with th# cafe of an atto:ey

CA sEs ruled and adjudged in the

• 270
1788.

torney without power of fubftitution; for, the attorney cannot ex-4

Sceed the letter of his authority, being nothing more than an agent

himifelf. But each partner is a principal; and it i; implied in the
very nature of their connexion, that each has a right to depute and
appoint a clerk to a& for both, in matters relative to their joint intereft.
Verdi& for the Defendant.
Ingerdl for the Plaintiff-Bradfordfor the Defendant.
STEINMETZ

et al. vcrfus CURRIE.

'THIS a&ion, brought by the indorfees of a bill ofexchange, againfi
J ore
n of the indorfors, now came on for a jecoid trial. *
It was very ably difcuffed by Ingerfill for the Plaintiit, and Sergeant
and Bradfordforthe Defendant ; but, as the circumfiances an., prnciples o.the cafe, kre accurately preferved in the charge of the court,
it is unneceffary to give any other 1iatement of the fa6ts or arguments,
than that delivered by the CHIEF JUSTICE.
M'KEAN, Chif uflire.-This is an aaion of very confiderablh
importznce, not only'as itaffcas the prefent parties, but as it affet&s
every holder, drawer, or indorfor of a bill of exchange. The'honor
and juftice of the State are, indeed, likewife interefted, that the decifion fliould be conformably to the general inercantile lav of nat:ons, left a dtviation fhould be imputed to our ignorance, or difiefpe&, of what is right .nd proper. It fhould be remembered too,
that the Dfendant is a firanger, and that the event of this fuit can
be zo further obligatory elfewhcre, than. as it correfponds with
the niverfal and cttablifhtd ufage of all countries ; for, upon the
prefent queftion, that, and not the local reglations of Pennfylvania,
muft furnifh the rule of determination.
It appears, then, that one Whitelaw, on the 3 oth. of OZ5toAer,
'775, drew a bill of exchange for C339. 18. fterling, upon JXiviam,
.- ouflon,.malfter, and Co. in .Refrew, near Glafgow, in favor of 7ames
J~itkerfpoon, or order, and payable on the rit day of Iiugjl, 1776.
This bill, afterwards, but it is not certain at what period, Pfiit.erfpoon indorftd to Curtie the Defendant, N-ho fometime in the year
1777 indorfed it to Meffirs. .4rchibaldandJohn Bla;r, and thofe gentlemen, before the month of OR7ber, 1778, indorfed it to Jfohn
.Pringle, by whofe fubfequent indorfement, it became the property
of Steinn:etz and Bell, the Plaintiffs ifi
this caufe. It appears further, thatSteinmetz and Bell on the 19th of Oerober, 1778, indorfed"the
bill of exchange to Mr. Freeman, who is now dead, and by whom,
in -his life time, it was tranfmitted to 11-7lliam C~wpland of London.
The bill feems to have been fpeedily and regularly indorfed after it
came into the hands of the Plaintiffs; and Cowpland, having duly receivcd it from Mr. Freeman, demandcd payment of the perfons
upon whom it was drawn or the 3 oth of December, 1778, when it
was protefied on account of their refufal, for which they afligned
reafons,
XOIfe

2~34.

