486
1 7 S9 .
L-v-d

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

III. The. remaininzpoint to be confidered, is, whether the purchifors under the order of the Orphan's CGurt are likewife bound
to contribfite ? Thefe purchafors, I acknowledge, appear to me
to ftand in a very difMlrent light from the voluntary purchafors
from the eldef fon. The law, for the benefit of the families anWl
creditors of perfons dying inteflate, has vef'ced the Orphan's " ourt
with a power to dire& the fale of certain parts of the inteftate's
real elare for the paymnnt of his debts. The famne law has dire&ed thN means of intormation to be given to the court, to prevent
imnpolition and the*uneceffary difdmemberment of the real cfatc.
The power given to the Orphan's Court by this a& is very great,
and ought to be difcreetly exercifed ; but when the fale is made
under their order, it is certainly a good one. The adminiarator
is vefted with as complete a power to fell the fpecified part of the
real eftate, as he has by the common. law to Tell the perfonal ; and
the purchafors froni him ought to hold as fecurely in the one cafe,
as the other. To fay, that, becaufe the adminittrator is to exhib!t upbn oath an account of the debts, therefore the purchafors are
To look to the payment of thofe debtq, is in efFe& faying, thatthe
purchafors are to look to the legal exercife of the power vetted in
the Orphan's Court, who may, unqueftionably, impofe fuch terms
upon the adminillrator, as are necefary to fecure to the creditors
and children, the confideration money arifing from the fales ; and
fuch fectirity has in fa& been required in mar inflances by the
Orphn's Courts in Pehnnfyi'vania. Befides, if iae purchafor is to
look to the payment of the debts, he muit, likewife, look to the
other objefts for which the land is to be fold-; that is, the education and maintainace" of the children, and the proper improement
of the refidue 6f the eflate : which no law founded in reafon could
require.
The cafe of there pufchafors, however, is not regularly before
the court; their lands have not been taken in execution, nuither
re they comprized within the rule.
The rule, as it flands, muff be difcharged.

PRINroLE

T

verfus

M'CLENACMAN.

- I S ca-ife being referred, a report was made in favor 6f
the Plantiif, to which the following exceptions were filed by
the Defendant:
ift. For that the Referees .hnve entirely omitted to charge the
Plantiff 7ohn Prinie, with the fum of ..
r46. fpecie. for a lols
on a Policy of Infurance that he underwrote to the De!endant,
Blab: M'G~enachav, upon the Brig Nancy, .Richey, mafler, on a
voyage from Cadi to P iladtlhiez in 1775
,. For that in the month of December 1776 there was a ballance
due from John..Pring!eto Blair MCIenacan of £ 2455. 13. 4as appears by the account current Iurnifhed the 'Referees;
and

CoMIMIoN PLEAS- Of Ph;ladephiaC.unty.

4,°i

!789.
and yet the Wtferees, by continuing dawn th fafequent items of
account in ContinentalMoney, to A.gwf i 78o (when they tiruck a ,._
. 21191. 13. 0, Conbiwta/ Al;ney, at 1.o for one
ballance of.
have red uccd the baLance of /z{55 13, 4. Specie, due to Blair
ZIM'Clenachan in 1776, by a fcale o! depreciation of 70 Jor one, '
that inftead of £2445. 13. 4.- . Blair AW"Cenachan has credit be,
I-.pecie.
about 435 -r.

. For that in an itern of £64.03. 17. 8.

C.ntiaetalMiner. on

a tranfa&ion ot November 1778 to the dcbitof Blair il'Cle,achai,
they have ommitted to charge him with -that film in Nov.enu"er
1778, and reduce it by the fcale of 7o for one, as they did the balance in Aziufl, but have taken that fingle iAnm out ol the general,
maf of the account, which amounts to upwards of £360 coo, Contlinental.dwrnv, and reduced it by a fcale of 6 for one; whichr upon
their own principles, will turn to the difadvantage of Blai? i:_'6e4. Ti.at Bliair 1'2"C'enacban, in Septemner i777, erew a bill of
in laexchange on Newoy, payable in Lsndn, for £ 200 fr,g,
ver oi yhn Prhgle, which was protelled ; and fie Dclendart,
Bjair i4inachan, never had notice thereof, until the latter end
c..ried il;e
chave
of 1778, or beginingof 1779, and the Referees
Defertdant for the fame, the fum of £.656. x9. 3. ficiit, and by
reafon of the Referees 'having fcaled the a.orcfud-balance of
r3. 0. at 70 for one, the faid Blair iPCena-kan,
£.21191
has tb his credit for the faid bill only the fum oft.. 8. r'. 5. ietle.
the
After argument, THE PRESIDENT delivered the opinion o.f
Court as'follows:
SHIPPEN, Prefident. The court have deliberately confidered this
cafe, and are unanimoufly of bpini*n, that tile Referees, althcugh
men of knowledg and-integrity, have hafily adopted a principie
not warranted by law, which, it fan&ified by this court, wculd be
prodif&ive of rrianifeft injuflice.
The accounts that had been exiibitcd by one party to the
other, were certainly evidence againft hin who exhibited thcm, as
to the articles which they contained, but could not be confidered as
evidence, much lefs conclufive evidence, of x hat was not Ilated or
diflinguifhed in them ; I mean, th value of the fpecie and depreciated
mon'ey. This appears to haic been a principal I'je&of difpute
between the parties, and ought to have been epen to difcufiiun beidea that this was concluive
fore the Referrees. Yet, uethe
evidence, they have totaliy reflifed to confider' the itcms of the
account as to their real vulue, or to 6xertife their judgmcnts upon
them ; but, by .applying a cei tain rate of depreciticn to the balance of the v.hole account, they have involved a large fium of
hard money in a depreciation of feventy for one. They have
aifo foaled fims which had been omitted in the accoints, in a
very diffeient marner from what they have done other advances
made about the fame time, by which an unequal meafure of
juflice is delt out to -,le parties.

488
1789.

CASEs ruled and adjudged, !fc.

The principle that the Referees adopted, having been taken
up -before it. coutld be known on which fide it would operate,
either beneficially or injurioufly, .they are not chargeable with any
defignid partiality; but it w.ts fitrely too hazardous and uncertain
an experiment, to be a proper foundation for doing equal Juitice.
Although the court, in the prefent inftance, have entered further
into the merits of the cafe, than' they ufually do on reports of
R~ferees, hey do nQt think that they depart from the fiirit of iormer decifions, as they ground their judgment ulioi thecondi,& of
the Referees in declining the confideration of the moft' material
fubje& of the controverfy; and that too, upon a miuiaken principle, leading to real ifjuftice to one of the parties.
Let the Report be fet afide.

APPENDIX-

