296
:783.
_a...
..

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

Sergeant and .7. B. M'IKean, for the Plaintiff flated, that the cafes
of privilege it -Enilatd,were limitted to an attendance upon Parliament, or upon Courts, as a party, juror, witnefs, or officer;
and that all the authorities which had been cited for the Defendants,
were iully comprehended within thefe bounds. They admitted
th it reafonable privilege had, likewif,, been allowed in Pennfylvania ;
but denied that, in either country, the doarine had been extended
to the obje& of the prefent rule. For, they infifted. that the Sheriff's
attendance upon the Executive Council, was voluntary, in order to
folicit an appointment, which, notwithflanding his being on the return, the Council might, at pleafire, grant, or refufe. Neither
was he bound to give fecurity 'till he was appointed; and, even.
then, it was not necefTary to be given in the city of Philadelpha.Vith refpe& to the Lieutenant of the county,' nothing. they faid,
could be more evident, thani that nis viiit to Philadelphiawas an af
of fipererogation, to perform what no law required him to do, and
wh[t might as 'well have been performed through the agency of a
Poi-r'ider.
If. indeed, the attendance of the Sheri, or of the Lieutenant of
the county had been req!iircd by the Executive Council; or, if they
hai been brought before that Board by any legal procefs; they might
then have claimed the advantage of the general rule of privilege.
But thzre can be no pretence in reafon, or law, to exempt from an
arreff, either a man, who voluntarily comes to folicit an offi-e ; or
one, who undertakes a journey merely to oblige his neighbours by
bringing them their commiffions.
At an adjourned fittings, held on the 6th of Septerer, TH PI Edelivered the clear, and uninimous opinion ^airm COURT,
that the Defendants were not prote&ed fIrom arreas, for any caufo
that had b-een fhewn. He obferved, that they had not been requircd by the Executive Council to attend them, but evidently came
to Pbhiladelphiaon their.own private bufinefs; and that it was the
duty of the Court to be careful not to extend the do&rine of privilege to the injury of honefi creditors.
The rule difcharged.
SIDENT

BOLTON

Ve'fus

MARTIN.

T I-TE Defendant was one of the members from Bedlord county,
in the State. convention, which affembled at Philadelphia,to take
into confideration the adoption, or reje6tion, of the conflitution propofed for the Governmeht of the UnitedStates, by the Fcederal Convention on the 17 th of Septenher 1787. -During his attendance upon
this duty, he was ferved with. a Sumnim'ons at the fuit of the Plaintiff;
and Sergeant obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why the Procafs fhould
not

COURT of COMMON

PJ.EAS

of Philadelphia County.

297

not be quafhed, upon a fuggeflion, that the Defendant; a&ing in 1783.
.
this public capacity, was entitled to privilege?
The cafe was elaborately argued by Lepy for the Plaintiff; and
8ergeant and Brqdford for the Defendant.
Lezy ieprefented the queftion to be, fimply, whether a member
of the State Convention was protected, during the fefflons of that
body, from being ferved with a Summons?. He remarked, that thare
appeared to be a 11rong diflin&ion between the privileges of a permanentLegiflature, and thofe which might beclaimedbya Convention called for a temporary purpofe: but, waving any argument
arifing from that fource, he contended that there was no fimii.,tue
betv~een the dAhberative bodies of E.-gland and Pennfylvania; and
that, confequently, the privilege of Parliament in th-u country, was
iot capable of a fRri& application in this. The Englijh Conffitution,
confifling of three branches, was fo conafru~ted as to prevent the
encroachments of one branch upon another, and privilege, as allowed in Eanland, was the nece~ffary refult of that principle. The privilege of the Houfe of Lords, might, perhaps, be founded on immemorial iiage ; *but it the members of the Hitfe of Comm;ns had not,
likewife, been protected from arrefts, it is eafy to perceive, that
their deliberations'and decifions might, at any time, have been interrupted by the praffices of the ocher branches of the government.
But if we mufll 11 be refered to the privilege of Parliament, he infiiled that the protedion of a member of the Houfe of Parliament, extended only to the cafe of arrefis, or perfonal reittraint, and not to
the fervice of a Summons. dtk. trat7s 41. 42. 43. i Ad. 14.6. S. C.
Nay, we find that anciently the Courts of Jultice only took cognizance of the Privilege of Parliament, to deliver the party out of
cuftody, and not to abate the fuit brought againil him r Black. Cont.
x66. Dyer 59. 56. Wtth refpect to the nature of privilege, he argued, .that, in modern times, it was become an odi aus and unpalatable dodrine ; and that if it were res nova, a very doubtful
queflion might be made, whether the advantage which d public
derives from the protedion of its fervants againit vexatious andi malicious arrefis, compenfates for the injury done by fcreening a man
from the payment of his juft debts. The policy of Queen Elizabeth's
obfervation, that ""he was no fit fubjeclt to be employed in her fer"vice, that was fubje-6 to other men's adions, left fhe might be
"thought to delayjuftice," * deferves to be well confidered in a Republic; and it appears, indeed, to have operated confiderably, even
in that kingdom, from which all our precedents on the fibjed are
Statute after fiatute has been framed to narrow this inderived.
fradion of the common law; and, by the influence of Lord Mansfield's eloquence, the fiatute of the io Geo. 3. c. co. feems at length to
have placed it upon a Cfae and reafonable foundation ; for, a Peer of
the moft diffinguiffied'rank may, at this day, be ferved with a Summaons, during the fitting of Parliament. i Black. Com. i66.-But even
when the pretenfions of the Commons were exalted to their greateft
height, it was always admitted that their privilege was given forthe
benefit
Pp

-98

.'CAsis ruled and adjiidged in the

17U8 - benefit of the people at large, and not for tie benefit of the indiviL....d dual. Sir T. Raym. 142, How then can the intereft of the people
be affe&ed by a pfocefs which impofes no refiraint upon the perfon,
andoccaf.ons no interruption of the public bufinefs?-Nor was the
privilege of the Engli(h Commons ever extended by analogy to other
deliberative bodies. 'Till the flatute of 8H. 6. c. r. vas paffed, in
the year 1427, the members of the Convocation (which was then a
deliberative'Affembly whofe decifions, in 'matters within their jurifdi&ion, were taken to be law) were liable to arrefis; and to remove
every doubt, whether this was merely a'declaration of the ancient
law, or an introduiion of fomething new, 3 Black. Com. 289 fays
exprefsly, that the Privilege was given by that flatute.
If then we are to be governed by the privilege of the Briti7h Parliament in determining this queflion, are we to receive th'at privilege
"entirer-in its duration comniencing forty days before, and continuing forty days after, the Seffions; and in its objie extending to
the fervarit as well as to the mafter? Or, aie we to receive it divefled
of its more odious trappings, and purified by the wholefome reftritions of modern flatutes? If the latter propolition" prevails, we
have fhewn that privilege cannot prote." the Defendant from the
fervice of a Summons; and, with refpe& to the former, though, it is
true, we have adopted the municipal regulations of that nation for
the fecurity of property, and the punifhment of crimes; yet, does
it follow that we are to be encumbered with the various extravagancies of their political fyftem, exhibiting to the world the abfurd
portrait of k Republic, with the heterogeneous features of a Monarchy. In'this country an univerfal equality is eltablifhed; no jealous, and rival, powers, warp the legiflature; the diftin&iohs of
tank and degree are unknown, except, indeed, in the honorable
pre-eminence which the voice of the people periodically beflows on
the moft worthy ; and furely the privileges of the Sophi of Peria,
or the Afti of Cenflantinople, are as fit to be engrafted on a coniti.tution of this defcription, as the Privilege of the Briti/b Peerage, or
their Houfe of Commons.
But, after all, if the effential difference in the principles of Government, fliould not be fufficient to exclude the privilege contended
for, the 5 Sea. of the Art. of Confed. which has beefi incorporated into the new Fcederal Syflem, is tantamount to a folemn dclaration,
that no fuch privilege exiffs: for, there, Congrefs, in defining-the
privilege of its members, fecures them from arreft and imprifonment, but not from the procefs of a Summons. Will it, therefore,
be afferted that the Defendant, in the prefent cafe, is entitled to
gitater --:ivileges, than he would have enjoyed as a member of that
honorable body? The idea is contrary to reafon and propriety ; and
if we muft argue from analogy, there can be no doubt that we ought
rather to apply to Congrefs for the precedent, than to the Parliament of Great Britain.
Sergeant tor the Defendant.-The exemption from arreft in the
cafe ot -members of Parliament, is totally unconne6ted with the political

COURT of COMMON PLEas of Philadelphia County.

299

litical fyffem of King. Lords, and Commons. It is a privilege 1788.
granted for this end, that the admin-iliration of the government may
not be intel rupted, or damaged, by the embarrafsments arifing from
the private affars of thofe who are called into the public fervice ;
and, as a neceilaky confequence of this principle, it belongs to every
national body, conflituiionally affembled for l.'giflative purpofes.
The members of the Hoiufe of Commons in England would thererore
have been entitled to it, even if no King, or Houfe of Lords, had
been known to their conflitution; the Congrefs of the United States
mufl have enjoyed it, though the Articles of Confederation had
been filent upon the fubjeat ; and the fovereigns of a free People,
conVened in a fingle Houfe, are furely not lefs entitled to that diflinaion, than if they had only formed a third branch of th government. That the privilege is applicable to the Legiflature o: Pennfylvania, mul then be acknowledged, though it certainly is not conferred by any pofitive law': Nor can it be denied to a Convention
affing under the immediate fanaion and authority of the people, upolt
a quefltion of the higheft importance to the general interefts of the
community. Their power, though direcled to a particular obje&,
was derived from the fame fource, which lupplies the permaifent
Legiflature of the State; and their bufinefs equally required a protecion from vexations, interruptions, and intrufions.
In fhort,there is a fan6lity in the charadaer of the Rcprefentatives of an in-.
dependent people, which is the true foundation of privilege ; and it
is recognized, not only for municipal purpofes, but, by the law of
nations, for the proteaion of Monarchs, their Ambaffadors, and
other public Minifters; in which refpe& no pofitive ftatute will be
found to mention it, 'till the reign of Queen A!nne. *
With refpea to the diffin&ion that is attempted, that the privilege is only from arrefts, and not from being impleaded, it can
neither be fipported by law, nor the reafon of the cafe. The fervice
of a BzRl of Jidlejex, which is no reftraint upon the Perfon, was held
to be a breach of privilege, under circumflances infinitely lefs important, than an attendance upon the State Convention. 2 Stra.
1094. In the cafe of Col. Pitt, the whole proceedings, upon mature confideration, were done away ; 2 Sira. 990. and ! Ld. Raym.
I 13. fThews, that, though an original might be fued out, and continued down, in order to avoid the ftatute of limitations, yet tha
fan&ity of the perfon could not in the fmalleft degrce, be violated.
Even the cafe which has been relied on from It. Tradhs, dtclares
that le fhall neither be arrefted, nor impladed. It would, indeed,
be nugatory, if an exemption from the trouble of entering fpecial
bail, was all the advantage privilege conferred; as the public f-ervice
would ftill be left expofed to the interruptions of an anxious attendance upon a litigious fuit, and all its concomitant circumilances, of
iaftru&ing lawyers and colle&ing witne'fes.
Bradford, on the famefide, arranged his-argument under two propofitions; -ifl, That fuch a thing as privilege exifled in Pennfylvana;
.
Pp 2
Set 7N. - 12. and the hiiory of that flatute in £ X1. Cm. sj.

S300
tr
t 8g.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tie'

nia ; and 2d, That it extended to the cafe of a Summgns, as well as
w apias.
-.
1.He fsid, that where therc was the fame reafon, there onght
to be the fame law ; and it the purpofe of privilege was to prevent a
man's being drawn afide from his public duty, or embarralred with
.upon
it, that undamenal prinprivate cares, during his attendance
ciple operated, at leaft, with as much force in Pennjylvania as in
Ikzgland; and in the cafe of the State Convention (whole bufinefs
was of the moft critical nature) perhaps, more than in the cafe of
any permanent deliberative Ailemibly. But, he afked, what writer
has ever treated privi!cge as the refilt ot a form of Governmenr,
compofed of three branches? Experience'contradi&s the allrtion.
Even in England, a member of Parliament cannot lead his privilege
again'ft a debt due to the Crown, fo fuperior is- prerogative; tne
-privilege which the law of nations confers upon Ambaldors, is n't
the refilt of any partirular ferm of Government: nor does the p, ivilege recognized in Courts of Jufticr, reft tipon lo equivocal a balfs.
Is a fuitor here proteaed from arrefts upon any political conlideration ? .or, can it be faid that a witnefs at this bar, owes his fecurity.tothe texture of the conilitution ; No: Thefe are the eff'e&s of
an univerfal principle, which equally applies in all Countries, and
under every modification of Government; for, when the bufinefs
of the State requires the attendance of an individual at a particul.r
place, it would be unreafonable and unjuft to expole him to an inconveniency, mhich he would not have fuffered, but for that attendance ;-it would be impolitic, likewife; for few men would
be willing, on fuch terms, to engage inthe public fervice.
2. The preceding argument muff ferve, likewife, to flhew, that
the privilege extends to the cafe of a Summons, as well as a Capiar.
For, thbugh the Defendant avoids the trouible of entering fpecial
bail; yet the former procefs, as well as the latter, will oblige him
to attend the Court from which it iffies, however remote it may
But, in the prefent cafe, the
be from his fixed place of refidence.
Defendant is not folicitous to be difcharged from the fuit, for he
will 6pgage to appear gratis in the proper county.
The difficulty, in tail, arifes from the nature and extent of the
j2rifdiaions of our Courts. In England the jurifidilion ot the
King's Bench and Common Pleas, being co-extenfive with 'the kingdom, thofe Courts can dire& the venue to be laid in the County
where the caufe of a6ion originated. But here, our County Courts
are in their nature circumfcribed ; and it has lately been determined
in the Sup-ren e Court, on a motion by Mr. Sergeant to change the
vvnue from Bucks to Philadelhia, that, even there, this relief could
not be obtained; for ihe a2 of 1766, * exprefsly declares, that the ve-

nue fhall be laid in the county vwhere the a~tion is intitfted. The
Defendant's claim, therefore, is rather the privilege of being fued
in a particular Court, than an exemption either from arreft, or
being impleaded; and we fay that he ought not to be fued in this
Court,
SW I Sise Laew, I rA. "d $St.

COURT of

COMMON PLEAS

of Phladelh'a County.

-01

Court, becaufe it was the p-!blic, and not his private, bufinefs, that
bro,,ght him within its jurifdi&ion.
By an a& paired in the year 1684, (though fince repealed) a fummons might have been ferved in any county, at any time, with an
exception, allowing, in the cafe of a member of Affembly, a
prote .ion for the fpace of 14 days after the feflions. Shall it then
be fiid that any individual might comel a Judge of the Supreme
Court to attend a private fuit upon the Ohio, by ferving him with a
fummons, while he is difcharging his official duties on the !J/-flern
circuit? We contend that tne intereit of the Commonwealth e,quires that perfons employed in fuch fervices, Ihould not be incommoded ; there is no r.neeliity, therefQre, to derive the privilege by
the analogy of other cafes; 'it arifes from the nature ot the thing;
and ma'w a'ithorities ihewv, that the rule is as torcible to prevent
their being impicaded, as to prevent their being arrefted. .2 Stra.
1094.. fVn. tit. Priv. 519: A mail, by the law ot Pennfyh,ania, may
be h's own council ; if he exercifes this right, is he not as much
drawn from the public fervice by a Summons as bya Capias ? In AIatlack's cafe, the C-iurt would not ifflue a Suipxna to two members of
the Afembly (Delaney an-1 Hill) who were witnefes in the caufe;
but a letter was written to the Speaker,. flating the neceflity of their
attendance, and a vote of the Houf was taken to allow it. In
Col. Pitl's cafe, he was entirely difcharged from a Capias, without
common bgil b. ing ordered; from which it may be fairly inferred,
that he ought not to have been fued at all ; as the effe& of common
bail, and a Summons are, in that refpe&l, the fame.
The cafe cited from Pryn in dtk. Y'r. is not in the )ear Books, and
it could not have been within the knowledge of the writer, as it is faid
to have happened in the reign of Edw. 3. For this reafon it bears a
doubtful complexion; nor, do we know that the decifion was on
the cafe before the Court ; and, at all events, thefe is an effential
difference in privilege, when it is extended to the fervants (whohave
no public cares to claim their attention) and when it relates to the
maiter.
Levy, in reply. He faid, that he had not afferted that a member,
either of the Aiferqbly, or Convention, was liable to arr/I during
the fitting of thofe bodies; but that he had exprefsly narrowed the
queflion to this point, whether he might be ferved with a Summons."
Nor had he infifted on the idea, that the Convention was not entitled to the fame privileges, which a permanent Legiflature might
claim; but merely fuggefted a diftin&ion for the confideration of the
Court. He contended, however, that a member of the Briijib
Honfe of Lords, iince the to Geo. 3. c. 50. was not entitled to the
privilege claimed by the Defendant ; and, he afked, whether fuch
privileges ought to be introduced and eftablifhed in Pennfylvania, as
only exifted in the dark ages of the Engliflj government, and which
the reafon and juftice of more enlightened generations had happily
corre&ed ? Finding, indeed, that they had tailed in point of fa&,
with refpeil to the exiftence of fuich a Parliamentary privilege as
they

3o
1788.
k

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

they claim, he faid, the adverfe council had entered elaborately into
arguments ab inconvenienti. But in doing this, no anfwer had been
given to the reafon for paling the 8 H. 6. c. i. by which ilatute, the
members of the Convocation, were firft exempted from perfonal
arreft.
Where, however, is the geat inconvenienc of a fuit, if it is not
founded in malice, or inflituted in a f'ubordinate and incompetent
jurifdiion ? neither of which can be pretended upon this occaion,.
Is there any thing more tequircd, in its firil flages, than to dire~t
an Attorney to enter an appearance? .When, indeed, the caufe is
ready for trial, at the diftance of, perhaps, many months, and long
after the bulinefs of a deliberative Adimbly, conflituted for fimilar
purpbfes as our State Convention, muff be clofed, it will be necef.
fary to prepare for a defence, if there is any in the caufe; but is
this fo fevere a hardfhip as to diflra t a member of th Alrembly, or
Convention, in the profecution of his duty, and to difjualify him
for the public fervice in which he is employed?
. Nothing appears to fhew that any other county, is a more prooer
county than this; fo that the offer to appeargratis might have been
fpared i iswell as the argument refpedfing the venue, which is an
by every ciinconveniency that exten £ to all cafes; is equallytofelt
tizen; and, proving too much, it muff be taken, prove nothing.
The a& of 1684, has beenIong repealed ; and the diftin&ion attempted between a Capias and ,$ummon does niot apply ;"for efery
-writ irregularly ifflued muff be fet afide ; and, therefore, if a man is
illally arrefted, common bail ought not to be ordered.
'With refpeat to the inflance of an application to the Speaker of
the Affembly, requeffing the attendance of tvvo members, that was
in the cafe of witneffies; and as- the C.ourt, after iffluing a Subpoena,
muft have compelled obedience to it by attachment, a very fericus
queftion, between the legiflative and judicial authority, was prudently avoided by the ftep then taken.
If the privilege in England is not the refult of their form of government, why does it exift forty days before, and forty days after,
-the feflions, in the cafe of the members for Midlefex and London,
who certainly do not require fo long a prote6lion eundo et redeundo.
But the whole argument oughi to be determined by an analogous
confideration of the 5 8ec7. of the dri. of Confed.
On the 6th of Septemher, the
of the Court.

PRISIDENT

delivered the opinion

SHIPrEN, Prefildent. -The queflion in this cafe, is, whether a
hIiember of Convention, refiding in a diflant county, could legally,
and confiftently with the privileges of fuch a deliberative AtTeinbly,
bearrefted, or ferved with a Summons, or other procefs, out of this
Court, iffued to compel his appearance to a civil aclion, while he
remained in the city' of Philadelhia, attending the -duties of' that
office
The

COURT of COMxMON PLEAS of P'iiladklpha Couity.

303

The members ofCGanvention, ele&ed by the people, and affembled "xTS8.
for a great national purpofe, ought to be confidered in reafon, and
from the nature, as well as dignity, of their office, as invefted with
the fame or equal immunities with the members of General 4ffmzlyj
met in their ordinary legiflative capacity: And in this light I fhall
confider them.
Th: Aifembly of Pennfylvania, being the legiflative branch of out
Government, its members are legally and inherently poffeffed of all
fuch privileges, as are neceffary to enable them, with freedom and
fafety, to execute the great truft repofed in them by the body of the
people who ele&cd them. As this is a parliamentary truf', we muft
neceffarily confider the Law of Parliamentin that country from whence
we have drawn our other laws. That part of the law of Parliament,
which refpeas the privileges of its members, was principally ellablifhed to prote& them from being molefled by their fellow fibje&s,
or oppreffed by the power of the Crown, and to prevent their being
diverted from the public bufinefs. The parliament, in geneial, is
the fole and exclulivejudge and expofitor of its own privileges: but,
in certain cafes, it will happen, that they come necefrarily and incidentally before the Courts of law, and then they riuft Iikewife judge
upon them.
The'origin of thefe privileges is faid by Selden to be as ancient as
Edward the ConfetTor.-For a long time, however, after the conqueft, we find very little, either in the books of Law, or Hiftory,
upon this fubje&.
If there were then any regular Parligments,
their members held their privileges by a very precarious tenure
There appears, indeed, in the reigns' of Henry the 4th and Hinry"
the 6th to have been fome provifions made by a6ls of Parliament, to
prote& the membi. from illegal and violent attacks upon their perfons, In.thereign of Edwardthe 4th, there has been a cafe cited to
hew, that the Judges determined that a menial fervant of a member
of Parliament, though privileged from affual arrefi, might yet be
impleaded. Although it were fairly to be inferred from the cafe,
that the.privilege of the fervant was equal to the privilege of 'the
member himfelf, yet a cafe determined at fo early a period, when
the rights and privileges of Parliament were fo little afcertained and
defined, cannot have the fame weight as more modern authorities.
Upon o. attentive perufal of the fiatute of 1 2 & T3. ffill. 3. c; 3,
I think, no other authority will be wanting to 1hew what the law
was upon this fubje&, before tfle paffing of that a&. From the
whole frame of that ifatute, it appears clearly to be the fenfe of the
Legiflature, that, before that time, members of Parliament were
privileged trom arrefis, and from being ferved with any procefs out
of the Courts of law, not only during the fitting of Parliament, but
during the recefs within the time of privilege ; which was a reafonable time eundo & redeundo.
The defign of this a& was not tyx
meddle with the privileges which the members enjoyed during the
fitting of Parliament (thofe feem to have been held facred) but it
cna6ts, that after the djolution, orproropation, of Parliament, (-

314.

CASES iuled and adjudged in the

zj'U, - after adjourhment of both Houfes for above the rpace of fourteen days.
4
any perfon might commence and profecute any dion againit a
member of Parliament, provided the perfon o.' the member be not
arrefled during the time of privilege. The manner of bringing the
aiqion again/1 a member of the Houfe of Common. is direded to be
by Summani and d.jh'rfs infinite, to compel a common appearance:
But even this was not to be done till after the diifolution, prorogation, or adjournment. The a& fu.rther dire6ds, that where any
plaintiff Aiall by reafon of privilege of Parliament be fh.yed from
profecuting any fuit commenced, fuch plaintiff fhall not be barred
by the ftatute of limitations, or nonfuited, difiifiid, or his fuit difcontinued for want of profecution, but fhall, upan the ryIink of Pariament, .be at liberty to proceed. So that before the rjfing of Parliament, and during the ad~ual fitting of it, it appears, not only that,
generally, a fuit could not be cormenced, but, "€ it had been- cormenced before, it could not be profecuted during that time. One
exception, as to commencing the adion appears to have been made
Lj the Judges, agreeabiy to the fpirit and apparent intention of the
ad; which is, that in order to prevent a member of Parliament
from taking advantage of the fiatute of limitations by reafon of his
privilege, an original might be filed againft him ; but that original
muff lie dormant during the fitting of Parliament; no procefs could
iffue upon it to compel an appearance; nor, till this ad pailed, could
it have been done at any time after the rifing of Parliament, during
the time of privilege.
This conitrudioni of the ad is fo obvious, that, upon any other,
almot all the provifions in it would have 'been nugatory; and it fully accounts for the feeming doubt in Col. Pitt's cafe in Strange,
whether he hould be difcharged on common bail, or be difcharged
altogether; it being after the diffolution of Parliament, the plaintiff
had a right, by the ad, to commence a fuit againft him ; and, therefore, irfeemed, at firft, that he fhould only be difcharged on common bail ; but as he had commenced -his fuit hy arreflinghis perfon,
before his time of privilege expired, the Judges, that they might
not feem to countenance the arrefi, difcharged him entirely.
If it were poflible to doubt of this being the true confirudion of
the at of 12 and 13. IF- 3. it is made liill
clearer by the ad of 2.
and3. Ann. c. 18. which direds that any adion may be commenced
againrf a member of Parliament employed in eke revenue, or other
place of public truft, even during the fitting of Parliament, for any
mifdemeanor, breach of truft, or penalty, relating to fuch public
truft, provided his perfon be not arrefted. This at was made for
this fingle purpofe, and would have been likewife nugatory, it an
adion couid have been brought before, againft any member of Parliament during the fitting of the Houfe.
Black. Com. t 6 5. was cited to fhew, that a member of Parliament
might be fued for his debts, though not arrefted, during thefitting'of
Parliament. This will appear to be exprefsly confined to adions at
the fuit of the King, under a particular provifiun in the flatute of ' 3.
a1.,j

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadlphia County.

305

and, by the ffrongefi implication, fhews, that it could not be done 1788at the fuit of a private perfon. A little higher, in the fame page,
a general pofition of Judge Black/lone will be found, which rully
reaches the cafe in queffion. "Neither (fays he) can any m;mber
"of either Houfe be arrefted, or taken into cuitody, norlervedwitb
"any procers of the Courts ofLaw, nor his fervants arrefted &c. without
"a breachofthe privilege of Parliament."
In the cafe before us, the Defendant appears to have been ferved
with a Summons out of this Court, dring the time ofthe atlualfittin'g
of the Co'vention.-Whetherwe take the law to be, as it flood ia
England before, and at the time of palling the a& of Wf. 3. ; or as it
flood after the palling that at down to the ioth of Geo. 3: about fix
years before our revolution, -it is clear that no member of Parliament, other than thofe particularly excepted, could 'be arrefted or
fervedwith any procefs out of the Courts of Law, during the fitting of
Parliament.
We cannot but confider our Members of Affembly, as they have
always confidered themfelves, intitled by law to the fame privileges.
They ought not to be diverted florn the public bufinefs by law fuits,
brought againif them during the fitting of the Houfe; whici', though
not attended with the arreft of their perfons, might yet obligc them
to aftend to thofe law fiits, and to 'bring witneifes from a diflant
county, to a place whither they came, perhaps folely, on account of
that public bufinefs.
The Defendant, therefore, mufc be difcharged from the ation; .

C

KUNCKLE

verfus

WYNICK.

OVENANT.-Theargumentarofe up'-n the following cafe,
feated for the opinion of the Court:-" fjhn Kuckieon the 7 th day
"of Oa. 784, coh'veyed to Nich:lasA'ynick, in fee fimple, a lot ofground
in
Since there Revorts were committed to the Prefr, I have been favored with a

note of anothir cafe in this Court, upon the quetio:i of privilege; and, I hope, I
fhall be excuied for introducing it here.
BARCL-AY et aL.
CALDW LL verft
Foreign Attachmeit.-JIMofyan ohtaned a rule io frhw caufk why thui Attachment hould not be quafhed, on the ground that one of the Delen.dant's, Bdar
,uaily refihin.Z abroad in tho
clay, being an America, conful, and in that charadler al
punlic fervice, was not within the defcription ofperfon-; whofe eff,4e1s were maL~e
liable to a Foreign Attachmcn by the aa of Affelrliy.
The rule was oppofed by /4.Yn,Bradford, and Strgeant, who conrended, that
2s a Confal, Barclay %as not entitled, by the law of nat,ng, to any 'arivilege, or
exemption from legal procefs; that, even if he was privileged on account of his of.
£cial charaiter, he had loft that advantageI by his partnerfihp with the other Deferdant, who was not entitled to i:; and that the ad of laffembly makes no eif-

ference between 'erfons ferving their country abroad, and any other non-refidents.
A!.:er an able argument, the opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr. 2Pre.
. Ssizrr ; agreeably to which
The rule was difcharged.

Q~q

