SUPREME COURT of Penlfylvanzia:

September Term, 1787.

POLLARD

C

verfus

SHAAFFER.

OVENANT.-The Plaintiff, and one Martha Gren (now

decealed) made a leafe biy indenture, dated the Iftof March
x773, of a Sugar Houfe &c. to 7ohn J/'1tiam Hoffman and his atfigns for five years at j.70.
per ann. payable quarterly. The Leffee
covenanted for himfelt, his executorsi atmiiiiftrators. andaj/igns, to
keep the derifed premiffes in good repair, and to deliver them up
to the Plaintiff, at the end of the term, in fuch good repair &c.
nohn
Wijiani He-nan affigned the leafe to the Ddfendant, who
entered into the premiffes.
The breach aliedged in this 26tion
was, that the Defendant had not paid £'35" rent in arrear for the
aft half year, nor delivered up .the premiflks at the end of the term,
to wit, the ift of Mirch i778, in good order and repair; but that
the roof, window-fhutters, floors -&c. of the Sugar-houfe were in
decay, deftroyed-&c.
The Defendant pleaded performance of covenants, payment, and
that araalien enemy, to wit, the Britih army, commanded by
general, Sir William hWe, on the ift of Septemker 1777, i-id invaded the city of Philadejphia, had take poflfilion of the premiffes,
and held the fame until the end of the term, and afterwards ; and
that during the pexiod they held pofleflion, they had committed the
wafte and deftrudfion &c.
To.the laft plea, the Plaintiff demurred generally; the Defendant
joined in demurrer, and ilfue &c.
The Demurrer was twice argued, on the 2'7th of Yune I786, and

on the Isth of April I787,. by Coxe, Lewis, and W'i/jon for the
Plaintiff; and Ingerfol, Wilcockhr, and Sergeant for the Defendant:
iid, on the 6th of Oc7ober, THE CHIEF JUSTIc&E pronounced the
judgment

SUPREME COURT of Pennjylvania,

211

i.ia-nc-a of the Court; Mr. _/)ice RusH hiving declined to give

17871

nar
v opain, as he had been of counfel with the Plaintiff in this
.caufe before he took hii feat upon the bench.
M'%EAN, hief _7uzct. - Two luefions were mde in this
caue -- ft, Whether tne Defend--nt as affignee of the Lafc, is
bound by the covenant to~repalr, as well as tme lfe-e? And 2dly,
Whether the fpeciPl matter pleaded, is lu.iicient in law to bar the
Plaintiff?
With refpe&.to the fir#fi quefion, we are clear in our opinion,
that the covenant to.repair, and to deliver up the derifed premifles
ingood order and repair, runs with the land, being annexedand ap-'
purtenant to the thing demifed, and ihall bind the fligtnee as much
as the leffee, iven if the affignee were not named by exprefs word,
on account of the privity ; 'but in the cafe at bar the aflignee is
bound by exprefs words, and, aforliori, is anfwerable as well 4s the
leffee. This point has been fully fettled in Sptncer's cafe, 5 Co. 16. h.
and r Salk. 199. 2 -Levinz, 2o6. 3 Ro. .dhr.title, (covenant) tetler
M pl. i, and . pL-2. in. 4kr. 6 vol.pa. 411.. lette, N. pl. 1. 2.
i Baom's Abr. 534. c. 5. and the nooks cited in thefe abidgements.
Thefeond queflion is of gyrat difficulty, and of 9ery great importance in its confequence, " We cannot find, thit it has come
dirdl'ly before any rourt in England, or in Europe. W6 with, that
it had come before abler judges than we pretend to be. 'However,
we nuft give our judgment; -but we do it with mote diffidence than
has occurred in any cafe fince we have had the honor to fit here,
As there is no pofitive law, no atjwdged cafe, nor eltablifhed rule,
or order, to dire6t the court in this point, we mufI be guided by the
principles of the law; by confcience,that infallible manitor within
ever! judge's breat, and the original and eternal rules" of juflice.
or, equity is part of the law of 'Penfyivania. x C'han. Ca. r4x.
Grounds and Rudiments oflaw and ej'lyt. pa. 74. ca. xQ4. DoR. and
Stu. h4. x.cap. 16.
It is agreed, thlt if a houfe b:. deftroyed by lightning, floods,
tempefs, or enemies, without any concrrence of the lelee,. or paf-

fibility of his preventing the famne, this is n3i waft¢ in the leffee:
For, it is not dmofe by the letrze's neglig-nce, or any wilful a& of
his ; and fie cannot be charged with uting it improperly, and it
would thus have perithed, .evenin th.e rezverfi6nr's po3ifeIion. i Infl.
53" h. Brook, Wafle, 69. 4 Co. 63 b. Herlakenden's cafe. Lalord's
.law pa. iS8, 278. 286, ftzherrt's NXtura Brevium, IaJ7,. -3P"
Ifl Edition. .Ke.u. 87.
It is alfo agreed, that where the ,nw creates a duty or charge, and
the pa-y is difabled to .perform it without any def/ult in him, ar 1
hath no remedy over, there he fIi ..
Ibe excufe&
As. in the cafes of
wafl againft tenants in dower, by the curtefy, for life, or yeax,
of fommon carriers, innkeepers &c. of leffees y parol'&c. or of 2
. Id 2
c,0

212

1787.

C.AsEs ruled and adiudged in the

ceffer during a,war. Aleyn. 27. 4 Co. 84'b. Southcote's tafe, 2 Leon.
xb9. and other books.
But, it is contended for the Plaintiff, that the Defendant is obliged to pay the rent, and yield up the tenements in good order and
repair, becaufe of the exprefis covenant: an. in fupport of this doctrine have been cited, Daorand Student. Dialogue 2. chap- 4. pa. 124.
Abr. 939- 8. C. Comyns Rep. 63!.
x
dlyn 27. Stiles 47- 8 C, iRolls
632. 2 Stra. 763. 1 Yent. 85. Plowd. 290. Perkins 738. Brook.
title (Covenantl)Pl 4. title, ;1af0e, P1. 19. 31. 2 Leon. i89. Dyer.
33. pi. 1o, aunders 420. 2 Iern. 280.
On the part of the Defendant, it is infifled, that the exprefs covenant in this care does not bind againft a&s of God or Enemies,
but only againft all other events; becaufe fuch a&s were not in the
contemplation of either party at the time of the leafe executed. A
rifque known and infured ought to be complied with, agreeably t6 the
bargain, but not otherwife. Every contraa ought to be conftrued
according to the intention of the parties ; and, in the prefent cafe,
the Defendant had only covenanted to keep the premiffes in ripair &c. againti crdinary accidents, and not againit a cafe, which
he could by no poflibility prevent. That if the law were otherwife,
yet in Englandrelief would be had in a court of chancery; and that
as no fuch a&ion had ever been brought, in a cafe circumfariced as
this is, .an argument is furnifhed, ihat no fuch a&ion will lie.
In maintenance of this opinion were cited: 1d. Raym. 909. 4Bac,
dhr. 369. 370. 1 Rolls Abr. .236. Dyer 56. pl. 15 . 1 Blackfi. 252.
-268. 2 Blackft. 379. 3 BiakJh. 153. 157. Cwper9. 6oo. Douglafs
xt9o. i Comyns Digef. i5o. 'o. Lit. 2o6. i Brown;s ParL cafes 5,26.
15 Pin. .4br. 474- pL 1. 3 Chan. ,Rep. 44. 79. 3 Burr.
528.
t.24o. 1637. Dyei: 33. IO. Sir ho. Raymond464. I o, 98. Sheliy's cafe. 6 i/in. pa. 407. ca. 1. 3. r Ch. Ca. 72. 83. 84. 190.
The books have been thoroughly fearched on this head, and the
queftion difcu-ed with great ability on both fides. In fhort, little
more could, be done or faid for either p :rty than what has- been faid
and done.
In deciding this intricate and difficult cafe, it will be of ufe to
flate the different powers of the cominon law courts, and the court
of chancery, in Lngland, at the time of the revolution.
and eflablilhed
The courts of law there are governed by general
the injullice
be
cafe,
any
in
deviate
never
they
which
rules. from
arifing from them ever fo apparent; for, they are bound by their
judges
oaths to obferve theflria rules 6f law. A court of chancery it, and
attending
ircumflances
peculiar
the
to
according
cafe
of every
and in d6ing
is bound not to fuffer an aa of injilftice to prevail;
rule of every
general
the
of
inilct
and
theffirit
to
this? it conforms
tacitly
exceptions
particular
of
pofitive law, which aliiavr admit,
n
courts
two
thefc
of
bouds
and
iur:-d.tJf
Th,
imnderAood.
arefixtd.

SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvanim

213

In this State, the Judges are fworn "'to do equal right and juffice 1787.
to all men, to the befti of their judgment and abilities. according to ._ .
law." There is no court of chancery. The Judges here are,
therefore, to determine caufes according to equity as well as the pofitive law ; equity being a part of the law. Do5.or and Student jib.
i. cha. 16. x Chan. CaJes 141. Grounds of laiV and equity 74. ea. o4.
Indeed the common law is common right,-conmn r.aqjn, or common

jufl'ice. 01ods 1I0 4.
Were this point brought before a court of common law in England at this day, I have doubts with refpe& to what would be the
determination. For, it is laid down as law, " that if a leffee covenanteth to leave a wood in as good plight as the wood was at the
time of the leafe, and afterwards the trees are overturned by tempeft,
he is difcharged of his covenant, quia impolentia excifat legem." 1 Co.
98. b. In that care, there was an exprefis covenant; and altho' it
was impoflible to reftore the trees in the fame plight they were,
yet he might plant new ones, or rcnder damages in lieu ot them.
The fame law in Brook. covenant. pl.4. Now, was it not equally
impoffible for the Defendant to deliver the poffieffion of the premilfes in good repair to the Plaintiffs on the ift.of March 177%
when they'were held by an hoftile army ? j 0.
In Vaughan's reports, in the cafe of Ha)es v. Bcke;;.tff, pa. 122.
it is held, "that a man's covenant fhall not be firairned fo as to be
unreafonable, or that it was improbable to be fo intended, without
necelary wards to make it fuch ; for it isunreafonable to fuppofe a
man Ihould covenant againit the tortious a&s of firangers, impoffible for him- to prevent, or probably to attempt preventing." This
was an a&ion brought by the leffee againif the lelfor, on his cevenant for quiet enjoyment. In pa. 1f9. it is faid, that R"the leffor
covenants that the leffee Iball hold and enjoy his term, without t-he.
entry or interruption of any, whether fich entry or interruption
be lawful or torlious,
there the leffor Ihould be
Xo
before the
the cafe beca:fe
Incharged,
other meaning can be given to his covenant.
notwithfrtanding
and repair,
in good order
and his aIgns, to dethe tnement
lellke had coveianted
for hifdf
court,
o upif the
liver
they fliould be dellroyed
by ae'7 ~ofGod or ofan Eewy, then this a&ion
would certainly lie, becaufe of thefpcca- xprefs wrds ; but when
there are no fueh words, but only generally to-repair &c. would it
the cafes
to extend
to confrue thefe words fo ashave
anothertomeaning?
be reafonable
put? Cannot the covenantin this cafe
in ood
bekept
ould
that the tenements
Can it not be fo conrrued,delivered
of the term, withtheend
at
up
order
fih
in
and
repair,
perfon, who could be
out an at or default in him, or a& of any and notwithLanding
it?
prevent
to
profecuted as a wrongdoer,
cbmmon and ordinary accidents might happen?
might
the o mon law courts in Englaud
Perhaps, how wver,
i., of
account
on
eri6
of
rules
the
by
bound
think, that they were
Defendant, and
the
the general expreftcovenant, to determine againlo
that

X4

1787.
-.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

that his relief rnuff be in chancery, if any where, b-caufe of the
eftabliflfied rules and boundaries of the jurisdi.,ion of thtfe courts.
We inuft then confidcr the equity of thiz (ae, and dttermine upon
all the circunances thereof; for altho' , e have not the chancery
forms or methods of c.'rrying feveral equitable cafes into execution,
yet we are to determine, where we miy, accordtng to equity, as
making a part of the Law, to prcven.t a ;.adlpre o -uifice. And here
we have no prcce&nts in cha;ncery in poit, but the cafe of the O.rice, which was taken aw.v:y by the ufLrpcrs In the civil war in E'nZhind, reported in i CA. Cas. 72. that of the rent c.f a houfe, which
was feized by the Parliament, during the laid iar, ic.r an'HofpitiA for foidiers, Ibid. 84, which tp~pears to have been taken
under avilemeptt by thle Chancelu-r, wittl a declaration, that, it
he could, he would relieve the tenant; but it was aftcrwards
pionbably compromircd, as we can find no more of it : that of
the recognizance for payment ofZ.jo,ooo. tQ legatees hy gi.: executor, where the teftator'. efiate was f leiened by the fire of Lon.
don that it became infuilicient to make up the fum, Ibid. 19o;
And that of the fee given with an Apprentice ; -where 1..12o. was
given, and it was provided by articiesexprefly, taat if the maicr
died within a year, C.6o. w-re to be returned ; he died in three
weeks alter the execution of the articles; and tho' the pai ties thenifelves had provided againif accidents, and tho' the malim,
mnods
et convfnhio wncunt legen '" was ur-ed, yet an hundred guineas were
decreed to be paid back. i Vern 460. I fay there cafes, and the
uncontradi&ed aifertion of Dwinning, that the cafe of Paradiniverfus
jane, and the other cafes which went upon the like principles, had
been lately over-ruled in chancery, fee 3 Burr. 1639. and alfz fome
others, which have been quoted by thelDefendant's counfel, hold a
dodrine that is ftrongly.ia favor of the Defendant.
''

In Doglor and Student, Dialogue 2. ch. 4. pa 126. Mr. St. Gerrmta

is puzzled to give a fatisfaaory reafon to the queftion put by tile
Doctor, to wit, .' If a man under age marries, and lands atterwards
defcend to the wife, and wafte is committed therein after her death
without the concurrence or default of the hufband, fhall he be charged
with it ." The cafe, thus Rated, flews, that he could not reiufe
taking fuch ellate, and, therefore, the charge or condition annexed
to it by law is unreafonable and unjuft. He makes the Student
aifver it in this manner z-" That there is as great delault in him as
i3 him in the reverfion; and that there is asgreat reafun why he flould
be charged with the waite, as that he in reverfion fhould be dilherited, and have no manner of remedy, nor yet no profit of the land,
a. tlhe other hath." But I conceive that as there was no default in
either of them, nor rcmedy over for either of them, that there is
more reafon that each of them fhould bear his own (bare of the ]of;;,
according to the duration of his cilate, than that the one thould be
refponfible to the other. Thi-maxims, "Lex non cogit hnp9tiia."
itjplel.ia excufat legem."
"Ctnfru' Rions are to be with equity
and

SUPREME COURT of PennfylVan2a.

.5

and moAeration, to moderate the-rigor of the law." Grounds &c.
38. ca.49 apply to the prefent cafe.
If a lei-or covenants that the l-flee fhlI quietly enjoy againfi all
men, yet in cafe he is ouited by an E!ieny, or torttout7y entered upon
by fIrangers, no aaion ot covenant can be mainta'ned againft the
lelor, notwithaan ling the exrefi generalcavinant. For the enemy
he could not oppofe, and agai-ill d~rangers he had a remedy over.
Ylaugban ixq. &c. This the counfel for the Plaint!' Y agree to be
the law. Why then fh'ould the.law make the leifee anfiverable on
fuch a generalexprefs cvenant to furrender the deaifed premiiies in
good repair, when they w.re deilroyed by an hoilile army? Ought
not the two covenants to receive the like favorable and reafonable
conilru&ion ? "Remedies are to be reciprocal." ,
"When the conflru..&ion of any twing is left to the law, the law, which abhorreth
injury and wrong, w:,Ill never fo confrue it, as it flill work a
wrong." Grounds &c. 368.
To conclude :-Our opinion is, that the Defendant ought to pay
the rent; i itBecaufe of the exprefs covenant to pay it. 2dlv, Becaufe itis a rum certain, anid the extent of the lofs known; and as
he was to have the advantage of cafual profits, he ought to run the
hazard of cafual lofihscduring the Trin, and not lay the whole burthen
of them upon the leffors; as refolved in Aleyn 27. And 3 dly, becaufe if a tenant by elegit be interrupted to'take the profits ot the
land, by reafon of war, he fhall not hold over, but fhall ful'ain the
difadvantage, as refolved in 4 Co. 81. h. irAndrre Corhit's cafe.
But, I am o!opinion, that the Defendant is excufed from his covenant to deliver up the premilres in good repair on the xli, of Marcb
1778 ;-itl, Becaufe a covenajit to.do this, againfi an a& of God
or an enemy, ought to befpecial and exbrefs, and fo clear that no
other meaning could be put upon it. 2dly, Becaufe the Defendint
had no confideration, no premium for this rifque, and it was not in
the contemplation of either party. And, h/flay, becaufe equality is
equity, and the lofs fhould be divided ;-he who had the term will
oofe the tmporary profits of the premiffes, and he, who hath the
reverfion, will bear the lofs done to the permanent buildings. Neitherparty has b-en guilty of any default; the injury has been done by a
common etiemy, whom both togethef could not poflibly refit or
*prevent, and the premilfes would have been thus damnified in the
poireflion of the Plaintiif hi'nfelf. Suppofe, when the leafe was.
executed, that the leiree'had been afked,-Is it your meaning, that,
in cafe Ahe buildings fhall be deltroyed by an aa of GAd, or public
enemies, you arc to rebuild or repair them?? 1Ii.; anf-w-r would have
been unqueflionably, "No; I never entert.,ined fiuch an idea."
Should the lke queaion have been put to the. le.for, his anfwer
would certainly have beer, "No, I do not expea any thing J unrcafanable."
If there is no cafe in point in favor of this dtrmination, there
isnbne againft it; and fince no aaion of this kind hiis hitherto
been

1787.

216
1787.
•

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

been brought, a prefumption arifes, that the fenfe of mankind is
againff it. If, however, we fhould be thought to be miftaken, another
hearing may be-had before the High Court of Errors and Appeals.
on a writ of error, where this unew cafe may be finally fettled. *

MUSGROVE,

Qui tan &c. verfus GiBBs.

T

HIS was an aiion qui tahi &c. on the A& of Affembly.againft
lUfury; and, in the courfeof the trial, THE COUtRT refolved
the .following points:
.Firl.-RichardfJ', through +he mediation of Shoemaker, borrowed
8oo Dollars of the Defendant, and gave his note for 84o Dollars
There was no talk about premium at the
payable in one month.
time of the loan; but it was underftood by the witneffes, that the
Borrower was to pay at the rate of 5 per cnt.per month for the money. At the end of the month, Richardfon paid 4. 168. on account
of his note, and gave a new note, drawn in favor of, and indorfed
He difcharged the amount of this
by, Shoemaker, for the ballance
laft note at diffcrent times; but it was never given up by the Defendant.
RESOLVED, fhat this was an illegal loaning of money, 'not-the
and
purchafe of a note, fo as to avoid the penalties of the a&6
that the ufury was compleat on taking and receiving theC.!68 ;
a proportion of that fum, went towards payment of the illegal intereft included in the original note.
Second.-The ufurious contract was Rlated ih feveral Counts of the
dealaration, to be with Shoemaker and Shirtliffe (who were Partners)
jointly; but the proof was of a note given by "Shoemaker alone.
RESOLVED, that this variance is fatal: For, an afion upon the
note could only be maintained againfi Shoemaker, who, if he intende'd to bind his partner, ought to have ufed the' firm ot the company; and, befides, if there fhould be a recovery againif the Defendant on the prefent count, it would be no bar to another qui tam
a 'tion on the fame note, Rating the ufurious contraS to have been
with Shoemaker alone.
Third.-Shoemaker and Shirty. borrowed feyqral fums from the
Defendant, and gave their notes payable in a ri inth, with intereft,
at the rate of 5 per cent. per month, added to the principal. Whenthefe became due, they could. not pay the money, but drew new

notes, making the principal and =ioleft of the former notes (which
were given up by the Defendant) principal, and again .adding the
fame exceffive intiereft up'on the agregate amount.
RESOLVED, that, although no money wa aaally paid to (he
; and the"
Defendant, the fecond notes were a 1 tisfacton of thc iirlt

ufury

The parties, acquiefcing in the decifion of the Court, no writ of error has been

f

out.

