OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

MATTHEWS v. UNITED STATES.
FRROR TO THE CIMCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 178. Submitted March 3, 189. -Decided

FOR THE

March 16, 1896.

The defendant was indicted for perjury alleged to have been committed
on the 7th of June. The minutes of the stenographer of the testimony,
alleged to be false, were read upon the trial, and they said that the testimony alleged to be false was given on the 6th of June, instead of the
7th. The defendant, being convicted, moved for a new trial upon the
ground that the variance was fatal, which was refused. Held, that such
a variance was not material in this case.
Stenographers' minutes of evidence are not records.

THE plaintiff in error was indicted in the Circuit Court
of the United States. for the Southern District of New York,
for the crime of perjury, alleged to have been committed
upon the trial of an action betweefi the United States and
one John Matthews, impleaded with others. The trial of the
action in which the perjury was alleged to have been committed was had in the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, and Matthews, plaintiff in error, was sworn
upon the trial, and the indictment in this case alleges that
he committed the perjury set forth in the indictment upon
that trial "before the said judge and jury, to wit, on the 7th
day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four, and within the district aforesaid and
within the jurisdiction of this court." For the purpose of
proving the testimony of plaintiff in error, taken upon the
original trial in which the perjury was alleged to have been
committed, and by stipulation of counsel for the parties in
this case, the minutes of the stenographer were read upon
the trial, and from those minutes it appeared that the testimony, alleged to be false, was given by plaintiff in error upon
the 6th instead of the 7th of June. The plaintiff in error
was convicted. His counsel then made a motion for a new
trial and in arrest of judgment, both of which motions were

MATTHEWS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

denied. Upon the trial the objection was raised by counsel
for defendant that there was a fatal variance existing between
the indictment and the proof as to the time when the perjury
was committed, and that question was reserved for the purpose
of being heard on the motion for a new trial, in case the
plaintiff in error was convicted. The motion for a new trial
having been made on that ground and denied, the defendant
below obtained a writ of 'error from this court, and the case is
now here for review.
Mr. W. J. Townsend for plaintiff in error.
A r. A8sistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
M . JusTIcE PcECH.Lm, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The only point suggested by counsel for plaintiff in error
upon which to obtain a reversal of the judgment is the fact of
the variance between the indictment and the proof as to the
day when the alleged perjury was committed. We think the
decision of the court below was clearly right. The cases
cited by counsel for plaintiff in error, in regard to the necessity for specific and accurate proof of the very day upon
which the perjury was alleged to have been committed, were
those in relation to records, depositions or affidavits which
were to be identified by the day on which they were made or
taken. Under such circumstances a misdescription of the
date of the particular record, deposition or affidavit has been
sometimes held fatal on the ground, substantially, that it has
not been identified as the particular one in which the perjury
is alleged to have been committed, because the record or other
paper itself bears one date and the indictment describing it
bears another. It is not the same record, and therefore there
is variance, which has been held fatal to a conviction.
In this case there was no record which was contradicted by
the proof given upon this trial. The trial was described accurately, the parties to it, the court in which it took place, the

