OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

The Appellate Court said: "The lease in question was a
lawful contract and engagement for the bank to make. The
first monthly instalment of rent was due under it nine days
before the bank suspended. By its terms the default that was
made by the bank in the non-payment of rent on May 1, gave
the right to the appellant to reenter and terminate the lease.
The damages were then matured and could have been at once
sued for, or appellant could defer its suit, as it did, until by a
'reletting of the premises the extent of damages had been made
certain. That they were unliquidated did not render them
contingent. The contingency, default in payment of rent, had
happened. After that the damages were a mere matter of
calculation." And a similar view was thus expressed by the
Supreme Court: "The money was not paid, and there was then
a breach of the contract for which an action might have been
maintained, and this occurred nine days before insolvency.
There is, therefore, no foundation for the position of counsel
that the claim of appellee was not an existing demand at the
time the bank suspended. The amount of damages may not
have been as large on the first day of May, 1893, as at a later
period, but on that date there was a breach of the contract
and a right of action for such breach."
Clearly the conclusion thus reached involved no denial of a
title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed
under the laws of the United States, and, as already seen, the
only Federal question arising was rightly decided.
Judgment affirmed.

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 22. Argued January 21, 22, 1895. -Decded

February 8, 1896.

The United States have no right to use a patented invention without license
of the patentee or making compensation to him.
No suit can be maifttalned, or injunction granted, against the United States,
unless expressly permitted by act of Congress.

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Statement of the Case.
Officers or agents of the United States, although acting under order of the
United States, are personally liable tb be sued for their own infringement
of a patent.
No injunction can be issued by the courts of the United States against
officers of a State, to restrain or control the use of property already in
the possession of the State, or money in its treasury when the suit is
commenced; or to compel the State to perform its obligations; or where
the State has otherwise such an interest in the object of the suit as to be
a necessary party. And the same rule applies to officers of the United
States.
A patentee has no title in things made by others in violation of his patent.
In a suit in equity for infringement of a patent, the defendants are liable to
account for such pr'fits only as have accrued to themselves from the use
of the invention.
In a suit in equity for infringement of a patent, if no ground is shown for
equitable relief, by injunction, by account of profits, or otherwise, the
plaintiff should be left to his action at law for damages.
Upon a suit in equity by the patentee of an improvement in caisson gates
against officers of the United States, using in their official capacity a
caisson gate made and used by the United States, in idfringement of his
patent, at a dry dock in a navy yard, the plaintiff is not entitled to an injunction. Nor can he recover profits, if the only profit proved is a saving
to the United States in the cost of the gate.

Tims was a bill in equity, filed January 20, 1887, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California, by George Schild against George E. Belknap,
Joseph Feaster, Christopher C. Wolcott, and Jesse Diamond,
for an infringement of letters patent granted by the United
States to the plaintiff on October 23, 1883, for an improvement
in caisson gates.
The bill alleged that the defendants, with full knowledge
and in violation of the plaintiff's exclusive right, manufactured
and used, and intended to continue to use, such caisson gates
in the State of California; and that he had brought an action
in the same court against the Union Iron Works of San Franaisco, and on the trial of that action, and after he had waived
other than nominal damages, recovered a verdict in the sum
of one dollar, in August, 1886, and the validity of his patent
and the fact of infringement were thereby established.
The bill prayed that the defendants be decreed to account
for and pay over to the plaintiff all such gains and profits as

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

had or might have accrued to them from purchasing or making
or using such improved caisson gates; that any further damages
sustained by the plaintiff by reason of the defendants' infringement be assessed and ordered to be paid; that the defendants
be restrained by injunction from making or using caisson
gates containing the patented improvement; that the caisson
gates, containing that improvement, and so manufadtured, or
purchased or in any manner obtained by the defendants, and
now in their possession, be destroyed or delivered up to the
plaintiff; and for further relief.
The defendants filed a plea to the whole bill, (called in the
record a "plea in abatement,") alleging that the court "ought
not to take cognizance of or sustain the aforesaid action," for
that the defendant Belknap was a commodore in the United
States Navy, and commandant of the United States Navy
Yard at Mare Island, California; that the defendants Wolcott,
Feaster and Diamond were, respectively, a civil engineer in
the Navy, an assistant naval constructor in the Navy, and an
employ6 of the United States at Mare Island; that the only
caisson gate which either of the defendants had any relation
with, control over, or use of, within the State of California,
was one constructed, manufactured and used by the government of the United- States and for their use and benefit at the
navy.yard at Mare Island, and was there built by the Union
Iron Works, in'pursuance of plans and specifications furnished
by the Bureau of Yards and Docks, a board in the naval
service of the United States, and was delivered by the Union
Iron Works to the United States, and used by the United
States in the dry dock of that navy yard; and that neither
the defendants, nor either of them, made or constructed the
caisson gate in question, or used it for their own use and
benefit, or ever had, or pretended to have, any. interest in or
claim upon it; but that they only operated and used it as the
officers, servants and employ~s of the United States, as a part
of the navy yard, and for public uses of the United States, in
the exercise of their sovereign and constitutional powers.
The Attorney General of the United States, appearing for
this purpose only, filed a suggestion, (called in the record a

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Statement of the Case.

"plea to the jurisdiction,") in which he stated that the caisson
gate in question was planned and constructed by the United
States, and ever since its construction had been in the possession, control and use of the United States at the navy yard at
Mare Island, and was operated at the dry dock in the navy
yard for naval purposes and the public defence, in the building and repairing of ships for the Navy of the United. States;
that the United States, through their officers and agents,
charged with the possession, control and operation of that navy
yard, had at all times been in possession, control and operation
of the caisson gate as public property of the United States,
for public uses, in the exercise of their sovereign and constitutional powers; and that the defendants, and each of them,
never had anything to do with the construction, use or operation of the gate, or made any claim of right, title, possession,
control or use of it, other than as officers and agents of the
United States, and in obedience to orders of the naval department of the government; and therefore, "without submitting
the rights of the United States to the jurisdiction of the court,
but insisting that the court has no jurisdiction of the controversy, for that the said caisson gate and its use now is and at
all times has been the property of the United States," moved
that the bill be dismissed, and all proceedings stayed and set
aside.
The case having been submitted to the court upon the plea
of the defendants, and the suggestion of the Attorney General,
both were overruled.
The defendants, Belknap, Feaster, Wolcott and Diamond,
then filed an answer, admitting the grant of the letters patent,
denying the infringement, setting forth affirmatively the matters stated in their former plea, and alleging that neither these
defendants nor the United States were parties to the action
brought by the plaintiff against the Union Iron Works, or
estopped by the judgment therein.
A general replication was filed; and evidence was taken,
by which it appeared that the validity of the plaintiff's patent,
and its infringement by the defendantsi were subjects of conflicting testimony; that Mare Island and the works and dock

OCTOBER .TERI~j 1895.
Statement of the Caae.

thereon, including the caisson gate, belonged to the -United
States, and were held and occupied for them by their officers
and employ~s; that the defendants respectively held the positions stated in their former plea, and had no interest in the
caisson gate, and nothing to do with it beyond operating it
under the direction of the United States; that the gate was
built in 1884, without qny agreement or license of the plaintiff,
by the Union Iron Works iinder its contract with the United
States, and according to plans and specifications furnished by
the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and Wolcott simply inspected
the materials and workmanship, as the work progressed, to
see if they were according to the contract; and that the gate
had since been used by the United States, as part of the dock
in the navy yard aforesaid.
After a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the court made
an interlocutory decree, adjudging that the patent was valid,
and had been infringed by the defendants; referring the case
to a master to take an account of the number of caisson gates
made or used by the defendants, or either of them, in violation
of the patent, and also of the gains, profits and advantages,
arising or accruing to the defendants or either of them, and of
the damages sustained by the plaintiff; and ordering a perpetual injunction against the defendants and each of them, "and
their and each of their agents, servants, clerks and workmen,
and all persons claiming or holding under or through them or
either of them."
The master reported that one caisson gate to the dock in
the navy yard at Mare Island, for the making and using of
which the defendants had been adjudged to have infringed
the plaintiff's patent, had been made upon plans furnished by
the plaintiff and modified by the government officials, and
put in use in 1884; that the cost of this gate was $60,000,
and the cost of the cheapest practicable gate, constructed on
any other plan known to the defendants, would be at least
$100,000, and therefore the gains, profits and advantages, which
had arisen and accrued to the defendants from infringing the
plaintiff's patent, amounted to $40,000 ; and that no damages,
in addition to such gains, profits and advantages, had been
proved.

BELKfNAP v. SCHILD.
Opinion of the Court

The court overruled exceptions taken by -the defendants to
the master's report, confirmed his report, and entered a final
decree for the plaintiff for the sum of $40,000, with interest
and costs. The defendants appealed to this court.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Conradfor appellants.
-Mr. J. H. .Miller, (with whom was Mr. L. T. .Miohener on
the brief,) for appellee.
MR.

JusTicE GiuY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A recapitulation of the principles heretofore affirmed by
this court, touching the liability of the United States, and of
their officers and agents, to suit in the judicial tribunals, will
go far towards disposing of this case.
It should be premised that our law differs from that of
England as to the right of the government tQ use, without
compensation, an invention for which it has granted letters
patent.
In England, the graiit of a patent for an invention is considered as simply an exercise of the royal prerogative, and not
to be construed as precluding the Crown from using the invention at its pleasure; and therefore a petition of right cannot
be maintained against the Crown for using a patented invention; although a private person or corporation, that has contracted to supply the government with articles embodying
the invention, may be sued for infringement of the patent.
Featherv. The Queen, 6 B. & S. 257 ; Dixon v. London Small
Arms Co., L. iR. 10 Q. B. 130, and 1 App. Cas. 632.
But, in this country, letters patent for inventions are not
granted in the exercise of prerogative, or as a matter of favor,
but under art. 1, sect. 8, of the Constitution of the United
States, which gives Congress power "to promote the progress
of science and useful arts, by securing for limited terms to
authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective
writings and discoveries." The Patent Act provides that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

every patent shall contain a grant to the patentee, his heirs
and assigns, for a certain term of years, of "the exclusive right
to make, use and vend the invention or discovery throughout the United States." Rev. Stat. § 4884. And this court
has repeatedly and uniformly declared that the United States
have no more right than any private person to use a patented
invention without license of the patentee or making compensation to him. United States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246, 252;
Cammeyer v. Yewton, 94 U. S. 225, 235 ; James v. Campbell,
104: U. S.356, 358 ; Hollisterv. Benedict Manufacturing Co.,
113 U. S. 59", 67; United States v.. Palmer, 128 U. S. 262,
270-272.
The United States, however, like all sovereigns, cannot be
impleaded in a judicial tribunal; except so far ans
they have
consented to be sued. This doctrine has been affirmed by
this court in cases too numerous to be cited; and was clearly
stated by Mr. Justice Field, delivering judgment in the case of
The Siren, as follows: "It is a familiar doctrine of the common law, that the sovereign cannot be sued in his own courts
without his consent. The doctrine rests upon reasons of public policy: the inconvenience and danger which would follow
from any different rule. It is obvious that the public service
would be hindered, and the public safety endangered, if the
supreme authority could be subjected to suit at the instance
of every citizen, and consequently controlled in the use and
disposition of the means required for the proper administration of the government. The exemption from direct suit is;
therefore, without exception. This doctrine of the common
law is equally applicable to the supreme authority of the
nation, the United States. They cannot be subjected to legal
proceedings, at law or in equity, without their consent; and
whoever institutes such proceedings must bring his case within
the authority of some act of Congress. Such is the language
of this court in United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 444. The same
exemption from judicial process extends to the property of the
United States, and for the same reasons. As justly observed
by the learned judge who tried this case, there is no distinction between suits against the government directly, and suits

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Opinion of the Court.

against its property." 7 Wall. 152-154. So much of this
statement as regards suits against the United States, or against
their property, was repeated by the present Chief Justice in
the recent case of Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S.508, 512.
It necessarily follows that, unless expressly permitted by
act of Congress, no injunction can be granted against the
United States. United States v. McLemore, 4 How. 286; -Hill
v. United States, 9 How. 386;JCase v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199.
The United States, by successive acts of Congress, have con-.
sented to be sued upon their contracts, either in the Court of
Claims, or in a Circuit or District Court of the United States.
Acts of February 24, 1855, c. 122, § 1; 10 Stat. 612; March 3,
1863, c. 92, § 2; 12 Stat. 765; Rev. Stat. § 1059; Act of March
3, 1887, c. 359, §§ 1, 2; 24 Stat. 505; United States v. Jones,
131 U. S. 1, 15, 16. The United States may accordingly be
sued by a patentee for their use of his invention under a contract made with him by the United States or by their authorized officers. United States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246; United
States v. Palmer, 128 U. S.262; United States v. Berdan Co.,
156 U. S. 552.
But the United States have not consented to be liable to
suits, founded in tort, for wrongs done by their officers, though
in the discharge of their official duties. Gibbons v. United
States, 8 Wall. 269; Morgan v. United States, 14 Wall. 531,
534; Langford v. United States, 101 U. S.341; United States
v. Jones, 131 U. S.1, 16, 18; German Bank v. United States,
148 U. S.573, 579, 580; H1ill v. United States, 149 U. S.593.
The United States, therefore, are not liable to a suit for an
infringement of a patent, that being an action sounding in
tort. Soillingerv. United States, 155 U. S.163; United States
v. Berdan Co., 156 U. S.552.
A public officer is not personally liable on a contract, although
under his own hand and seal, made by him in the line of his
duty, by legal authority, and on account of the government,
and enuring to its benefit, and not to his own. Hfodgson v.
Dexter, 1 Cranch, 345. See also -Macbeathv. Hlaldimand,1 T.
R. 172; tfnwin v. Volseley, 1 T. R. 674 ; Palmerv. -Hutchinson,
6 App. Cas. 619.
voL. cixi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

But the exemption of the United States from judicial process
does not protect their officers and agents, civil or military,
in time of peace, from being personally liable to an action
of tort by a private person whose rights of property they
have wrongfully invaded or injured, even by authority of the
United States. -Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch, 169; Bates v:
Clark, 95 U. S. 204. Such officers or agents, although acting under order of the Unitfid States, are therefore personally liable to be sued for their own infringement of a
patent. Cammeyer v. .Newton, 94 U. S. 225, 235. See also
Feather v. The Queen, 6 B. & S. 257, 297; -Favasseurv.
Krupp, 9 Oh. D. 351, 355, 358.
The extent to which officers or agents of the government
may be restrained by injunction from doing unlawful acts to
the prejudice of private rights is illustrated by the decisions of
this court regarding injunctions from the courts of the United
States to officers and agents of a State, which, by the Constitution of the Uriited States, is as exempt as the United States
are from private suit. Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1.
In a suit to which the State is neither formally nor really a
party, its officers, although acting by its order and for its
benefit, may be restrained by injunction, when the remedy at
law is inadequate, from doing positive acts, for which they are
personally and individually liable, taking or injuring the plaintiff's property, contrary to a plain official duty requiring no
exercise of discretion, and in violation of the Constitution or
laws of the United States. Osborn v. Bank of United States,
9 Wheat. 738, 868, 871; Board of Liquidation v. .McComb, 92
U. S. 531, 54:1; Allen v. Baltimore &QOhio Railroad,114 U.
S. 311; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1.
But no injunction can be issued against officers of a State, to
restrain or control the use of property already in the possession
of the State, or money in its treasury when the suit is commenced; or to compel the State to perform its obligations; or
where the State has otherwise such an interest in the object of
the suit as to be a necessary party. Louisiana v. Jumel, and
lliott v. Wiltz, 107 U. S. 711, 720-728; Cunningham v. Mfacon
& Brunswick Railroad,109 U. S. 446, 45-457; Eagoad v.

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Opinion of the Court.

Sothern, 117 U. S. 52, 70; In re Ayer8, 123 U. S. 443; Nlorth
Carolinav. Temple, 134 U. S. 22; le Gahey v. Virginia, 135
U. S. 662, 684.
In support of the decree below, much reliance was placed
upon United States v. lee, 106 U. S. 196; Stanley v. Schwalby,
147 U. S. 508; and The Virginia Coupon Cases, 114: U. S. 269.
In United States v. Lee, the decision of the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Miller, was that the owner of land held and
occupied by the United States for public uses, but under a
defective title, might maintain, against the officers in possession of the land under authority of the United States, an
action of ejectment, notwithstanding the interposition of the
Attorney General in behalf of the United States.
A year afterwards, Mr. Justice Miller, again delivering the
opinion of the court, after mentioning a different class of
cases, said: "Another class of cases is where an individual is
sued in tort for some act injurious to another in regard to
person or property, to which his defence is that he has acted
under the orders of the government. In these cases he is not
sued as, or because he is, the officer of the government, but as
an individual, and the court is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts authority as such officer. To make out his
defence he must, show that his authority was sufficient in law
to protect him." After citing several cases to this point, he
added: "To this class belongs also the recent case of United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, for the action of ejectment in
that case is, in its essential character, an action of trespass,
with the power in the court to restore the possession to the
plaintiff as part of the judgment. And the defendants Strong
and Kaufman, being sued individually as trespassers, set up
their authority as officers of the United States, which this
court held to be unlawful, and therefore insufficient as a
defense. The judgment in that case did not conclude the
United States, as the opinion carefully stated, but held the
officers liable as unauthorized trespassers, and turned them
out of their unlawful possession." Cunningham v. Macon &
Brunswick Railroad,109 U. S. 446, 452.
This statement of the decision in United States v. Lee was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

repeated in &anley v. Schwalby, in which the point decided
was that the statute of limitations, or adverse possession, might
be pleaded in defence of an action of trespass to try title
against officers of the United States. 147 U. S.508, 518.
In Cunn'ingkam v. .Aacomz & Brunswick Railroad, above
cited, a bill in equity to foreclose a second mortgage of a railroad, and to set aside as invalid a sale and conveyance of the
road to the State of Georgia under a foreclosure of the first
mortgage, was filed by holders of bonds secured by the second
mortgage against the Governor and the Treasurer of theState,
as well as against the railroad company and its directors; and
was ordered to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because,
as was said in the opinion: "It may be accepted as a point of
departure unquestioned, that neither a State nor the United
States cai be sued as defendant in any court in this country
without their -consent, except in the limited class of cases in
which a State may be made a party in the Supreme Court of
the United States by virtue of the original jurisdiction conferred
on this court by the Constitution. This principle is conceded
in all the cases; and whenever it can be clearly seen that the
State is an indispensable party to enable the court, according
to he rules which govern its procedure, to grant the relief
sought, it will refuse to take jurisdiction." "In the case now
under consideration, the State of Georgia is n indispensable
party. It is in fact the only proper defendant in the case.
No one sued has any personal interest in the matter, or any
official authority to grant the relief asked. No foreclosure
suit can be susfained. without the State, because she has the
legal title to the property, and the purchaser under a foreclosure decree would get no title in the absence of the State. The
State is in the actual possession of the property, and the
court can deliver no possession to the purchaser. The entire
interest adverse to plaintiff in this suit is the interest of the
State of Georgia in the property, of which she has both the
title and possession." 109 U. S.451, 457. o
In the cases cited by the appellee, reported under the head
of The Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269, where a collector of taxes due to the State of Virginia refused to receive

BELKNAKP v. SCHILD.
Opinion of the Court.

coupons of the State tendered in payment of such a tax,
because forbidden to do so by a statute of the State, which
was unconstitutional and void as impairing the obligation of
the contract made by the State with the holders of such coupons in the statute under which they were issued, the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, held that the collector was
liable to an action of detinue, or of trespass, for distraining
personal property for non-payment of the tax; or, where the
remedy at law was inadequate, might be restrained by injunction from making the distraint. Poindexter v. Gre~nhow, 114
U. S. 270; Chaffin v. Taylor, 114IU. S. 309; Allen v. Balti,ore & Ohio Railroad, 114 U. S. 311.
But where the Circuit Court of the United States, at the
suit of one who had tendered such coupons in payment of his
taxes, issued an injunction against the Attorney General and
.other attorneys of the State of Virginia to restrain them from
bringing any action in behalf of the State to recover such
taxes, and, upon their bringing such actions, committed them
for contempt in disobeying the injunction, they were discharged by this court on writs of habeas corpus. Mr. Justice
Matthews, again delivering its opinion, and fully reviewing
the previ6us cases, said that from the decision in Cunningham
v. Macon & Brunswick Railroad,above cited, "the inference
is, that where it is inanifest, upon the face of the record, that
the defendants have no individual interest in the controversy,
and that the relief sought against them is only in their official
capacity as representatives of the State, which alone is to be
affected by the judgment or decree, the question then arising,
whether the suit is not substantially a suit against the State,
is one of jurisdiction;" and added that actions had been sustained against officers acting in behalf of a State "only in
those instances where the act complained of, considered apart
from the official authority alleged as to its justification, and
as the personal act of the individual defendant, constituted a
violation of right for which the plaintiff was entitled to a
remedy at law or in equity .against the wrongdoer in his individual character;" and that the Eleventh Amendment of the
Constitution, declaring that "the judicial power of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

States shall not be construed to exteid to any suit in law or
equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects
of any foreign State," must be held." to cover, not only suits
brought against a State by name, but those also against its
officers, agents and representatives, where the State, though
not named as such, is, nevertheless, the only real party against
which alone in fact the relief is asked, and against which the
judgment or decree effectively operates;" and therefore concluded that the suit in which the injunction was granted was
in substance and in law a suit against the State of Virginia,
and consequently the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to
entertain it, the order of injunction and the commitments for
contempt were null and void, and the imprisonment of the
officers was without authority of law. In re Ayers, 123 U. S.
443, 489, 502, 506, 507.
When the matter of the Virginia coupons was last brought
before this court, Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering its unanimous opinion, summed up, as the result of the previous decisions, so far as concerns the subject now under consideration,
"that no proceedings can be instituted by any holder of said
bonds or coupons against the Commonwealth of Virginia,
either directly by suit against the Commonwealth by name,
or indirectly against her executive officers to control them in
tile exercise of their official functions as agents of the State;"
but that any holder "who tenders such coupons in payment of
taxes, debts, dues and demands due from him to the State, and
continues to hold himself ready to tender the same in payment thereof, is entitled to be free from molestation in person
or goods on account of such taxes, debts, dues or demands,
and may vindicate such right in all lawful modes of redress by -suit to recover his property, by suit against the officer
to recover damages for taking it, by injunction to prevent
such taking where it would be attended with irremediable
injury, or by a defence to a suit brought against him for his
taxes or the other claims standing against him." AleGakey v.
Yirginia, 135 U. S. 662, 684. And this-summary was repeated
and approved in Peennoyer v. AicConaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 15.

BELKNAP v. SCHITLD.
Opinion of the Court.

It only remains to apply the principles established by the
former decisions to this suit under the Patent Act of the
United States.
That act not only provides that "damages for the infringement of any patent may be recovered by action on the case,"
but also provides that "the several courts vested with jurisdiction of cases arising under the patent laws shall have power
to grant injunctions, according to the course and principles of
courts of equity, to prevent the violation of any right secured
by patent, on such terms as the court may deem reasonable;
and upon a decree being rendered in any such case for an
infringement, the complainant shall be entitled to recover, in
addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant,
the damages the complainant has sustained thereby; and the
court shall assess the same, or cause the same to be assessed
under its direction." Rev. Stat. §§ 4919, 4921.
This bill in equity was filed by the owner of letters patent
for an improvement in caisson gates, and alleged that the
defendants infringed the patent by manufacturing and using
such gates. The defendants filed a plea to the whole bill, and
the Attorney General in behalf of the United States filed a
suggestion, the single ground of each- of which was that the
only caisson gate that the defendants had any relation with
was not made by them, and was not used by them for their
own benefit, but was made and used by the United States in
a dry dock at a navy yard, and the defendants only operated
and used it as officers, servants and employ .s of the United
States. The fact so pleaded and suggested could not, consistently with the previous decisions, above cited, prevent the defendants from being held liable to the patentee for their own
infringement of his patent.' There was no error, therefore,
in overruling the plea of the defendants and the suggestion
of the Attorney General.
But the Circuit Court erred in awarding an injunctioff
against the defendants.
As this court, when deciding that things manufactured
under letters patent of the United States were subject to be
taxed by a State like other property, said, "The right of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

erty in the physical substance, which is the fruit of the discovery, is altogether distinct from the right in the discovery
itself." Pattersonv. entuceky, 97 U. S. 501, 506. Title in
the thing manufactured does not give the right- to use the
patented invention; no more does the patent right in the
invention give title in the thing made in violation of the
patent.
In an English case, quite analogous to the case at bar,
where shells, bought and owned by a foreign sovereign, were
brought to England to be put on board his ships of war, the
Court of Appeal held.that his agents, if they used the shells
in England in infringement of an English patent, might be liable in damages to the patentee, but that the court could not
restrain the delivery of the shells to the sovereign to whom
they belonged. Lord Justice Brett said, "The patent law
has nothing to do with property;" and Lord Justice Cotton
expressed the same idea more fully, as follows: "The property in articles which are made in violation of a patent is,
notwithstanding the privilege of the patentee, in the infringer
if he would otherwise have the property in them. The court,
in a suit to restrain the infringement of a patent, does not
proceed on the footing that the defendant proved to have
infringed has no property in the articles; but, assuming the
property to be in him, it prevents the use of those articles,
either by removing that which constitutes the infringement,
or by ordering, if necessary, a destruction of the articles so as
to prevent them from being used in derogation of the plaintiff's rights, and does this as the most effectual mode of protecting the plaintiff's rights- not on the footing that there is
no property in the defendant. The court cannot proceed to
give that relief, and interfere With the articles, unless it has
before it the person entitled to the articles in question, and
has as against this person power to adjudicate that the articles are made or used in infringement of the plaintiff's
rights." F-avasseur v. Erupp, 9 Ch. D. 351, 358, 360.
In the present case, the caisson gate was a part of the dry
dock in a navy yard of the United States, was constructed and
put in place by the United States, and was the property of the

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, and held and used by the United. States for
the public benefit. If the gate was made in infringement of
the plaintiff's patent, that did not prevent the title in the gate
from vesting in the United States. The United States, then,
had both the title and .the possession of the property. The
United States could not hold or use it, except through officers
and agents. Although this suit was not brought against the
United States by name, but against their officers and agents
only, nevertheless, so far as the bill prayed for an injunction,
and for the destruction of the gate in question, the defendants
had no individual interest in the controversy; the entire interest adverse to the plaintiff was the interest of the United
States in property of which the United States had both the
title and the possession; the United States were the only real
party, against whom alone in fact the relief was asked, and
against whom the decree would effectively operate; the
plaintiff sought to control the defendqnts in their official capacity, and in the exercise of their official functions, as representatives and agents of the United States, and thereby to
defeat the use by the United States of property owned and
used by the United States for the common defence and general
welfare; and therefore the United States were an indispensable party to enable the court, according to the rules which
govern its procedure, to grant the relief sought; and the suit
could not be maintained without violating the principles
affirmed in the long series of decisions of this court, above
cited.
There was also error in the final decree awarding profits to
the plaintiff as against the defendants.
In a suit in equity for the infringement of a patent, the
ground upon which profits are recovered is that they are the
benefits which have accrued to the defendants from their
wrongful use of the plaintiff's invention, and for which they
are liable, ex aequo et bono, to the like extent as a trustee
would be who had used the trust property for his own advantage. The defendants, in any such suit, are therefore
liable to account for such profits only as have accrued to
themselves from the use of the invention, and not for those

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

which have accrued to another, and in which they have no
participation. Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126,
138-140; Boot v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189; Tilghman v.
pl'octor, 125 U. S. 136, 141--148; ifeystone Co. v. Adams, 151
U, S. 139, 147; Coupe v. Royer, 155 U. S. 565, 583.
in the leading case of Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., a suit in
equity for the infringement of a patent for an improvement
in wooden pavements was brought against a city, as well as
against the contractor who had laid down the pavements. It
being shown that the city had made no profits from the use of
the invention, but that the contractor had, this court held that
profits could be recovered against the contractor only, and
not agaifist the city. Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering judgment, said: " One thing may be affirmed with reasonable confidence, that if an infringer of a patent has realized no profit
from the use of the invention, he cannot be called upon to
respond for profits; the patentee, in such case, is left to his
remedy for damages." 97 U. S. 138.
In the case at bar, there was no evidence that the defendants
themselves had made any profits whatever from the use of the
plaintiff's invention; but the only gains, profits and advantages,
upon which the report of the master and the decree of the
court were based, were those which had accrued to the United
States from the saving in the cost of the gate; and the master
found that no damages, in addition to such gains, profits and
advantages, had been proved.
The necessary result is that, even if the validity of the
patent and its infringement by the defendants- are assumed,
the plaintiff, upon this record, is not entitled to an injunction,
to profits, or to damages.
The finding of the master, that no damages, in addition to
profits, had been proved, does not indeed necessarily imply that
the plaintiff had not sustained damages, independent of any
profits. But no ground for equitable relief, by injunction, by
account of profits, or otherwise, being shown, the proper remedy of the plaintiff against the defendants for such damages
is by action at law. Elizabeth v- Pavement Co., and Boot v.
Railway Co., above cited.

BELKNAP v. SCHILD.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

The question whether the United States might be liable, in
a suit against them in the Court of Claims, or other court of
concurrent jurisdiction, as upon a contract, for their use of the
caisson gate, if an infringement of the plaintiff's patent, does
not arise, and cannot be decided, in this case.
In order that the rights of all parties interested in the controversy may be preserved, the entry in this case will be
Decree of the Circuit Court 'reversed,and case remanded to
that court with directions to dismiss the bill, without
prejadice to an action at law against the defendants, or
to a suit against the United States.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN,
FMLD,dissenting.

with whom concurred MR. JusTioE

I am unable to concur in the disposition which has been
made of this case.
As stated in the opinion of the majority, this court has
frequently held that the United States has no more right than
any private person to use a patented invention without license
of the patentee or without making or securing compensation
to him. It is not claimed that the defendants used the plaintiff's patent under a license from him, or that compensation
or provision for compensation has been made. The government is, therefore, under an implied obligation to compensate
the plaintiff. That obligation arises from the Constitution,
which declares that private property shall not be taken for
public use without just compensation. Upon this point, the
court in United States v. Great Falls -Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645,
657, said: "Such an implication being consistent with the
constitutional duty of the government, as well as with common
justice, the claimant's cause of action is one that arises out of
implied contract, within the meaning of the statute which confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims of actions founded
' upon any contract, expressed or implied, with the government
of the United States.'" The same principle was recognized
in Great Falls .Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 121 U. S. 581,
597; United States v. Alexander, 14:8 U. S. 186, 191, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

S&hillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163, 174, 175. In this
view -the
defendants being public officers who derive no
personal advantage from the use by the government of the
plaintiff's invention- the prayer for an injunction might well
have been denied upon the ground that -there was an adequate
and complete remedy by a suit against the United States as
upon implied contract. But the court does not proceed distinctly on that ground.
If the plaintiff cannot sue the United States to recover
.compensation for the use of his invention, actually appropriated by the government for public use, then the only
adequate remedy for him would be an injunction against the
individual officers, who are proceeding without his license,
and without any provision having been made for his being
compensated. This must be so, unless the court is prepared
to hold that there is no remedy, under the Constitution, for the
protection of private rights against illegal invasion by officers
-of the government. In United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196,
208, 209, this court said that when the citizen, "in one of the
courts of competent jurisdiction, has established his right of
property, there is no reason why deference to any person,
natural or artificial , not even the United States, should prevent him from using the means which the law gives him for
the protection and enforcement of that right;" that "no man
in this country is so high that he is above the law , no officer
of the law may set that law at defiance with impunity; all the
officers of the government, from the highest to the lowest,
are creatures of the law, and are bound to obey it." If the
United States may appropriate to public use the invention of
a patentee, without his consent, and without liability to suit,
as upon implied contract, for the value of the use of such
invention; if, as the court holds, a public officer acting only in
the interest of the public, is not individually liable for gains,
profits and advantages that may accrue to the United States
from such use; and if the officer who thus violates the rights
of the patentee cannot be restrained by injunction, then the
government may well be regarded as organized robbery so
far as the rights of patentees are concerned.

