OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

not bound to take the risk of losing his money because of the
invalidity of the assessment and the want of authority in the
officer to sell, an officer not acting for him but for the District, and no adequate reason is perceived for cutting him off
from reclaiming his certificates and recovering thereon, in
view of this total failure of consideration without fault on
his part.
Judgment affirmed.

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LANqD CLAIMS.
14o. 429. Argued October 25, 28,1895. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

In order to the confirmation of a Mexican grant by the Court of Private
Land Claims, it must appear not only that the title was lawfully and
regularly derived, but that, if the grant were not complete and perfect,
the claimant could, by right and not by grace, have demanded that it
should be made perfect by the former government, had the territory not
been acquired by the United States; and by the treaty no grant could be
considered obligatory which had not been theretofore located.
The grant under which the plaintiff in error claims was a grant of a specific
quantity of land, to wit: seven and a half sitios and two scant caballerios
within exterior boundaries, and not a grant of the entire eighteen leagues
contained within those exterior boundaries; and as location was a prerequisite to any action by the Court of Private Land Claims, and as the
grant had not been located at the date of the Gadsden treaty, it cannot
be confirmed.

THIS was a proceeding on behalf of the United States, instituted by direction of the Attorney General, in the Court of
Private Land Claims, under the third clause of section eight of
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854. The petition
alleged that defendants were asserting a claim to the premises
in dispute under an alleged MT[exican land grant by virtue of
the treaty of December 30, 1853, known as the "Gadsden
Purchase," and that the title of defendants and each of them
was open to question in several particulars-set out in the petition. And, it was prayed that the defendants be notified to

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

show cause why the alleged grant should not be declared null
and void, and that the title to said land might be quieted and
forever settled, and for general relief.
Separate answers were filed by Santiago Ainsa, administrator of Frank Ely, and by Juan Pedro Camou and George H.
Howard. Defendants admitted that they claimed the land as
tenants in common, and each set up and pleaded his title and
asked confirmation of his claim. The New Mexico and Arizona Railroad Company claimed its right of way under them.
The answer of Camou and Howard stated among other
things:
"That, as appears and is shown from and in the said official
survey, the minutes whereof are contained in the aforesaid
testimonio, the form of the same was nearly square, the northern and southern boundaries conforming, of necessity, angularly with those of the Casita Rancho and the Tumacacori
and Calabasas tracts; that within the bounds, natural objects,
and monuments set forth and established by the said official
survey, there is an excess of about-, more or less, some 4631
hectaras, 21 aras, and 47 centiaras, or about - of such said
excess, surplus, or demasias, being in that portion of grant
lying and being in the State of Sonora, all of which is set
forth and shown in the resurvey of the grant and plot thereof
had and made A. D. 1886, by the Mexican government upon
the petition of your petitioner, Camou, to purchase the said
demasias that lay within the Republic of Mexico; which said
resurvey and plot thereof and the proceedings thereon, as well
as the final sale and grants by the said Republic of Mexico petitioner Camou of the said demasias within the said republic,
and a final recognition, expressly considered and given, of the
aforesaid original grant of -, made A. D. 1843 by the treasurer general of the department of Sonora, are contained,
shown, and set forth in the duly authenticated original testimonio, which was made and delivered unto the said Camou
by the said republic as complete and final evidence of title, a
copy of which is filed herein and herewith, marked as ' Exhibit
B.",

Camou also filed an amended answer, which alleged that
vOt. cLtxi-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the tract in question had been duly located and recorded in
the archives of Mexico, prior to the twenty-fifth of September,
referred to in article VI of the Gadsden treaty, and that his
grantors and predecessors in interest, who were the owners of.
the grant at the time of the adoption of the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo and of the Gadsden treaty, were Mexicans and
citizens of the Republic of Mexico, and further alleged that
the validity of the grant was examined into by the United
States surveyor general for Arizona, who made a report
thereon, a certified copy whereof, dated February 25, 1881, was
made part of his answer. This report states that the grant
was "for the exact quantity of seven and one half square
leagues and two short caballerias, notwithstanding the petition was for the vacant land lying between the northern
boundary of Casita and the western boundary of rancho Tumacacori ;" that the survey "fixed the quantity at exactly
seven and one half square leagues and two short caballerias ;"
and that "after survey every act in the proceedings up to and
including the formal execution of the grant was upon the
basis of the exact quantity ascertained by survey." The surveyor general called attention to the importance attached by
the Mexican government to the quantity or area of grants of
land as shown by the action of the procurator fiscal, hereinafter referred to, in correcting the error of the appraisers in
omitting to value the two short caballerias, which, being done,
"the grant was executed for the definite quantity heretofore
stated." In his opinion, as the petition showed that the petitioner wanted the vacant land bounded on the south by the
Casita and northerly by the Calabazas without special reference to other boundaries, the claim should be made to bind
those ranchos with the easterly and westerly lines so established as to include exactly seven and one half square leagues
and two caballerias, and he recommended confirmation of so
much of the claim as should be found in Arizona on a survey
made as thus indicated.
Upon the trial the court ruled that the object of the proceeding by the government was simply to bring in the parties
in order that the claimants' title might be confirmed if it were

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

found that their grant was valid; that, moreover, the defendants had prayed for such confirmation; and that the burden
of proof was upon the defendants. They thereupon offered
in evidence a titulo of the land in question, entitled "Title to
seven and one half sitios and two short caballerias of land for
raising cattle and horses, contained in the vacant public lands
between the north boundary of the ranch of Casita and the
west boundary of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas,
in the upper Pima country, issued to Don Jos Elias and
his parents, Don Francisco Gonzales and Dofia 'Balvanera
Redondo, residents of the town of Imuris." From this it
appeared, although the petition is not in the record, that
May 6, 1841, Don Jos6 Elias and his parents applied "for
the resurvey of the lands of the ranch of Casita, of which
they are the owners and possessors, and which are situated
in the jurisdiction of the town of Imuris, and also for the
survey, appraisement, and publication of the vacant public
lands which they say they need." This part of the application is also described in the proceedings as being "for the
survey, appraisement and publication, offer and sale of seven
and one half sitios and two short caballerias of land for raising cattle and horses, which comprise the vacant public lands
situated between the north boundary of the ranch of Casita
and the west boundary of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas, in the upper Pima country, in the district of San
Ignacio." The application was granted by the superior board
of the treasury of the department of Sonora, May 22, 1841,
and a resurvey of the ranch Casita was ordered, as also a survey of the public lands sought to be purchased, and the order
directed that separate expedientes should be made of both
operations. This action of the board was certified to the
superior chief of the treasury, May 26, 1841, who on that day
commissioned Don Francisco Navamuel to make the surveys.
He was directed to resurvey for Don Jos6 Elias and his par,ents the lands of Casita, "giving them tho area or number of
sitios that legally belong to them, with due separation of the
sitio or sitios that result in excess within the lawful boundaries of said lands of Casita. And at the same time said con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

missioner shall execute, in separate expedientes, the proper
survey, appraisement, and publication of the vacant public
lands the parties in interest apply for, after the indispensable
judicial information which said commissioner, under his own
strictest responsibility, shall cause to be taken before a competent judge and shall aggregate to the original proceedings,
and which shall be that of three impartial, capable and upright
witnesses of practical intelligence, by which it is legally and
sufficiently proved that the parties in interest need such
vacant public lands and have an abundance of stock to stock
them with." The commissioner was required to act in strict
compliance with the laws of Sonora of May 20, 1825, and
July 11, 1834, and to adjust the sitio or sitios contained in the
lands of Casita; their overplus, if any; and the vacant public
lands, strictly by the regulations, giving to each sitio the area
of twenty-five million square varas, and he was cautioned as
soon as the operations as to the excess or overplus resulting
within the lawful boundaries of Casita were completed, that
that excess should not be published, but appraised in accordance with article 2 of decree No. 51 of May 12, 1835. The
commissioner procured evidence that Gonzales and his wife
had four thousand head of cattle more or less, and proceeded
to resurvey the ranch of Casita, and then to survey the vacant
public lands. As to this survey he reported that he started
at the north cross monument of Casita and directed himself
"along the public road that goes toward the north to the
presidio of Tubac," 340 cords, (17,000 varas,) " which ended
on the high road, in a flat, where a wide canyon that comes
down from the slope of the Pajarito mountains terminates,"
where he ordered a monument placed, "that of Calabazas
being about a thousand steps further on on a high hillock
which slopes down on the other side of said canyon." "Having asked the party how he wanted the land squared, he
replied that be wanted twenty cords to the east; and thereupon they were measured for him twenty-two (22) cords from
the monument which is in the high road, in a straight line
guided by the compass, to a hillock .that has many oak trees
on its slope, and on the summit a pile of stones was placed as

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

a monument." Having returned to the cross monument on
the high road, the commissioner measured west fifty cords,
(twenty-five hundred varas,) where he "reached very broken
ground, which it was impossible to measure with the cord,"
when he "made a scrupulous estimate, together with my
assistants, of one hundred and fifty cords, until I arrived to
where the Pajarito mountains turned to the north near the
place they call Calaveras, said Pajarito mountains having been
crossed and within the land surveyed, and there I ordered the
party to place a pile of stones as a corner monument." He
then returned to the place of beginning, and measured east
twenty-two' cords, (eleven hundred varas,) "which ended
upon some hillocks at the trunk of an oak tree, where a pile
of stones was placed," and from the same point he measured
and estimated "in several stretches of rough ground, towards
the west, two hundred (200) cords, which ended on a whitish ridge that has considerable pasture, near the so called
Planchas de Plata, which ridge divides the streams that flow
towards the ranch of Agua Caliente and those that go towards
Agua Zarca.
Thus the south boundary was closed with
another two hundred and twenty-two (222) cords and is
limited there by the ranch of Casita. In this manner was
terminated the survey of the vacant public lands, which include seven and one half sitios, and the party, when it was
made known to him, was satisfied and understood the area
it encloses, and was warned to place, at the first opportunity, fixed monuments of stone and mortar." The land was
then appraised, according to the state law of Sonora, at the
minimum price of fifteen dollars per sitio, the amount being
put at one hundred and twelve dollars, four reals; and publication was ordered in accordance with that law for thirty consecutive days, by the public crier, "in solicitation of bidders
who may make a better valuation." The last publication was
on December 10, 1841, when proceedings were suspended, on
account of the absence of Don'Jos6 Elias, until November 28,
1842, when they were referred, as required by the law of
Sonora, to the attorney general of the treasury, who reviewed
the same, and reported thereon that the survey was 340 cords

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

from the north to the south and 222 cords from east to west,
which, reduced to varas, and multiplied, gave 188,700,000
square varas, making "seven and one half sitios and two caballerias, a little short, for raising cattle;" that the appraisement made no account of the two short caballerias, which
were of the value of five reals ten grains at the rate of fifteen
dollars per sitio, for which reason the total value should be
one hundred and thirteen dollars, one real and ten grains; and
recommended a sale " of said seven and one half sitios and two
short caballerias of public land for raising cattle and horses,
included between the north boundary of the ranch of Casita
and the west boundary of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas," to the highest bidder on three public offers. This
was so ordered January 5, 1843, and after three public offers,
January 5, 6, and 7, sale was made to IDon Jos6 Elias and his
parents. The description of the land offered was in these
words: "There are going to be sold, on account of the public
treasury of the department, seven and one half sitios and two
short caballerias of land for raising cattle and horses, contained in the vacant public lands situated between the boundaries of Casita and those of the mission of Tumacaeori and
Calabazas, in the upper Pima country." In the third publication the translation uses, instead of the words "contained in
the vacant public lands," the words "comprising the vacant
public lands," and this difference of phraseology appears in
several of the proceedings, that is, sometimes the seven and
one half sitios are described as contained in the vacant public
lands, and sometimes as comprising the vacant public lands.
The documents in Spanish were not sent up.
The titulo then recites the receipt of one hundred and
thirteen dollars, one real and ten grains, and that in the
provisional memorandum book of receipts for the current
year the receipt of that sum, "being the value of seven and
one half sitios and two short caballerias of land for 'raising
cattle and horses, contained in the vacant public lands between the boundaries of Casita and those of the mission of
Tumacacori and Calabazas, in the upper Pima country," was
entered. Thereupon the treasurer of the department of

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Sonora, at Arizpe, on January 7, 1-43, executed the grant
as follows: "Therefore, by virtue of the authority which the
laws, regulations and superior orders that govern in the matter confer on me, by these presents, in the name of the Mexican nation, I grant, in due form of law, seven and one half
sitios and two short caballerias of land for raising cattle and
horses, contained in the vacant public lands situated between
the boundaries of Casita and those of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas, in the upper Pima country, in the district
of San Ignacio, to Don Jos6 Elias, and to his parents, Don
Francisco Gonzales and Dofia Balvanera Redondo, residents
of the town of Imuris, in said district, to whom I cede, give
and adjudicate said lands, by way of sale, and with all the
requisites, stability and permanence the laws establish, for
themselves, their children, heirs and successors, etc."
Appended to the titulo appeared the following certificate
signed by the chief clerk, which was offered in evidence by
the defendants as a part thereof: "By supreme resolution of
this day, the adjudication of the land referred to in the title
issued on the 7th of January, 184:3, is approved, under the provisions of article 3 of the law of December 3, 1855, and it is
therefore legally confirmed. And in witness thereof and for
the purposes that may be necessary this indorsement is made
in the department of public works, in Mexico, on the 7th of
July, 1886."
A memorandum was introduced in evidence, showing that
the Toma de Razon or record book of land titles of Sonora
contained an entry that on January 7, 1843, there was issued
a title of grant for seven and one half sitios and two short
caballerias of land for breeding cattle and horses, contained
in or comprising the vacant public lands, situated between the
north boundaries of ranch La Casita and the western boundary of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas, in favor of
Don Jos6 Elias and his parents. It was admitted that certain
field notes and a plat thereto attached were made in December, 1891, by a surveyor, now deceased, named Oury, and
that, if living and present, he would testify that said field
notes and plat contained a survey of the claim according to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the natural objects and other descriptions contained in the
original survey, the total area being 78,868.34 acres, of which
25,899.09 were in the United States. These field notes and
map were introduced in evidence.
The testimony on behalf of the United States tended to
show that by accurate measurement commencing at the north
cross monument of the ranch, La Casita, and measuring north
along the Tubac road three hundred and forty cords of fifty
varas each, the measurement would terminate in the Republic
of
exico three and fifty-four hundredths cords, something
over four hundred and twelve feet, south of the line between
Mexico and the United States; and that according to Oury's
survey there were within the exterior boundaries named in
the titulo and within the boundaries of Mexico twelve and
twenty-one hundredths sitios, or about 52,969.25 acres, and
within the exterior boundaries and within the United States
five and ninety-six hundredths sitios, making in the aggregate
eighteen and seventeen hundredths sitfos within the exterior
boundaries, or 78,868 acres, and that seven and one half sitios
contained 32,744: acres.
There was also evidence to the effect, as sufficiently stated
by counsel for the United States, that none of the monuments
referred to in the titulo are now in existence, and that the
monuments now found on the southern boundary of the grant,
being the south cross monument, the southeast monument and
the southwest monument, have been recently constructed and
are new monuments; that the so-called north cross monument
consists of a mound of earth and pebbles about eighteen inches
high and ten or twelve feet in diameter, on top of which is a
stone eleven or twelve inches square, on which is marked " N
de E N X," and has not the appearance of being a monument,
but appears more like an ant hill, and about twenty steps from
this is a similar mound, except the stone; and that the northeast monument is a recently constructed pile of stone, without mortar, about four feet in diameter, built in circular shape;
that the southwest, corner is not where it ought- to be as described by the titulo, and that no such place as "Calaveras,"
named as one of the calls for the northwest corner, was known
in that part, of the country.

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The United States also offered in evidence a transcript of
the expediente referred to in the answer of Gamou and Howard, being the same proceedings resulting in the order of July
7, 1886, a certificate of which was indorsed on the titulo and
introduced in evidence by all of the defendants.
From these proceedings it appeared that on August 11, 1882,
Don Jos6 Camou, Jr., through whom defendants Oamou and
Howard and others claimed, presented to the district judge
at Hermosillo a petition alleging that he was a Mexican citizen, and that he was the owner of the ranch known as Los
Nogales de Elias, situated on the boundary line of Mexico and
the United States, between the ranches "La Casita," "Tumacacori," and "Calabazas," the overplus of which he denounced
and sought to purchase under article eight of a general law of
July 22, 1863, " with the understanding that if the other coproprietors of said ranch of 'Nogales' desire to share in this
overplus, I do hot object that the adjudication may be made
in favor of all the owners thereof in the proportion to which
they are entitled, provided they contribute to the expenses of
the same." On August 17, 1882, it was ordered by the district judge of Sonora that the denouncement above referred
to be admitted, and citizen Rosas was appointed as commissioner with instructions to resurvey the ranch called Los
Nogales de Elias for the overplus so applied for, and he was
required to report the true area of the ranch and the overplus
of the same, if any, and was required to proceed under the law
of July 20 and August 2, 1863. It was further recited that
Rosas, in compliance with the order of the district judge,
notified the parties in interest and the owners of the adjoining lands, and proceeded to a resurvey of the ranch according
to its exterior boundaries as described in the titulo of the grant,
and found within such exterior boundaries and monuments an
excess within the Republic of Mexico of 4631 hectares, 21 ares,
and 47 centiares, (or 2.64 sitios, being 11,443.73 acres,) over
and above the seven and one half sitios sold in 1843. The report of this survey was made to the district judge and by him
referred to the chief of the treasury acting as attorney general,
who advised that said excess be adjudicated to Jos6 Camou,

OCTOBLR TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Jr., subject to the approval of the board of public works, to
which the matter was referred. That board required further
explanation of the survey, which was made by Rosas on January 15, 1886, and thereafter the district judge was directed to
suspend " approval of the adjudication until it becomes known
whether or not it prejudices the growing town of Nogales, and
likewise until the validity and legality of the title under which
it is pretended to hold said ranch is established," in respect of
which there was reason to entertain doubt, because the titulo
of ownership issued to Don Jos6 Elias in the city of Arizpe by
the departmental treasurer of Sonora, January 7, 1843, disclosed the fact "that the origin of the property or the original
title was vicious and null, as the sale was. made and the title
issued by a departmental treasurer, and in the year 1842,
when the bases of Tacubaya were in force, that is, when the
national government was not only central but dictatorial,
which two circumstances give the title in question the character of manifest nullity."
The objections appear to have been obviated, among other
things, by securing from the President of the Republic of
Mexico the order of July.7, 1886, already referred to, and the
whole matter being again remitted to the district judge the
surplus was regularly adjudicated to Jos6 Camou, Jr., who
paid therefor the value, fixed at $555.74, and costs.
The Court of Private Land Claims held that under the
original proceedings the right of the grantees was limited to
the specific amount of land mentioned in the proclamation of
sale and the grant; that the grant was for a specific quantity,
and by its express language the quantity was made the controlling matter of the description ; and that the intent of the
granting officer to reserve to the government the excess over
the amount granted within the boundaries was as clearly
manifested as it could have been made by a reservation in
express language. And that even though a grant such as the
court held this to be was unknown to the Mexican- law, still,
what was actually effected was to be determined by the language made use of, and that the power of the officers to do
what they did do need not be inquired into; that while a.

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

parallelogram 340 cords in height and 222 cords in width,
measured from the point designated by the commissioner as
the cardinal point of survey, would be partly within the Territory of Arizona and partly within the State of Sonora, yet
that the grant was specific as to quantity but not as to location, and the only effect of the proceedings was to designate
certain boundaries within which the quantity of lands granted
was to be located; that, of necessity, the location was to be
determined by subsequent action, but no action was ever
taken. The -conclusion was that, at the time of the treaty of
cession, the grant had not been located within the meaning of
that instrument, and hence by its express terms could not now
be recognized as of any validity; and that it was not such a
grant as by the terms of the treaty the United States was
bound to recognize and confirm, which by the terms of the
act creating the court was the test of the rights of the parties.
The Court of Private Land Claims entered a decree "that
the defendants, or either or any one of them, take nothing by
their claim of lands lying north of the international boundary
line between the United States and Mexico, and that the
claims of the various defendants as made in their answers
are hereby declared without merit and are disallowed." From
this decree an appeal was prosecuted to this court.
Some definitions and explanations may properly be added
to the foregoing statement.
A vara equals 32.9927 inches; a cordel, 137.95 feet, or 50
varas; a sitio contains 4338.464: acres; a caballeria, 105.75
acres; a hectare, 2.471 acres; a "sitio de ganado menor," or
sheep ranch, 1928.133 acres. An expediente is a complete
statement of every step taken in the proceedings, and a testimonio is the first copy of the expediente. A grant of final
title papers is attached to the testimonio and delivered to the
grantee as evidence of title, and entry is made at the time
in a book called the Toma de Razon, which identifies the
grantee, date of the grant and property granted. The dictionaries define "Tomar razon," "to register, to take a memorandum of, to make a record of a thing," and "Toma de Razon,"
memorandum book."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The " Gadsden Purchase" added a strip along the southern
boundary of the Territory of New Mexico, and Arizona was
detached and made a separate Territory in 1863, within which
strip and Territory the land in controversy is situated.
Mr. Rochester Ford for appellants.
X,r.Solicitor General, .Mr.
Jlfatth.ew G. Reynolds, and JMr.
Luman F. Parker for appellees.
MR. OIEF JUsTIcE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court:
As remarked in Astiazaranv. Santa Rita Mining Co., 148

U. S. 80, 81, a case involving title to the ranchos of Tumacacori, Calabazas, and fl]uevavi, undoubtedly private rights of
property within ceded territory are not affected by the
change of sovereignty and jurisdiction, and are entitled to
protection, whether the party had the full and absolute ownership of the land or merely an equitable interest therein, which
requires somefurther act of the government to vest in him a
perfect title. And this is so by the law of nations, ""with or
without any stipulation to such effect," Strother v. Luca", 12
Pet. 410, 436, but when stipulations exist, the terms in which
the high contracting parties have expressed themselves are to
be observed.
By Article VIII of the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, February 2, 1848, Mexicans, established in territories previously
belonging to Mexico and remaining for the .future within the
limits of the United States, as defined by the treaty, were free
to continue where they then resided or to remove at any time
to the M exican Republic, "retaining the property which they
possess in said territories, or disposing thereof, and removing
the proceeds wherever they please;" and "in the said territories, property of every kind, now belonging to Mexicans not
established there, shall be inviolably respected. The present
owners, the heirs of these, and all Mexicans who may hereafter acquire said property by contract, shall enjoy, with re-

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

spect to it, guaranties equally ample as if the same belonged
to citizens of the United States." 9 Stat. 922, 929.
Article VI of the Gadsden treaty, December 30, 1853, is as
follows: " No grants of land within the territory ceded by
the first article of this treaty, bearing date subsequent to the
day- twenty-fifth of September- when the minister and
subscriber to this treaty on the part of the United States,
proposed to the government of Mexico to terminate the question of boundary, will be considered valid or be recognized by
the United States, or will any grants made previously be respected or be considered as obligatory, which have not been
located and duly recorded in the archives of Mexico." 10 Stat.
1031, 1035.
The difference in language between the two treaties is
readily seen. Grants previous to the cession, which have not
been located, are by the terms of the latter treaty not to be
respected or considered as obligatory, as matter of right,
whatever the United States might see fit to do, as matter
of grace, under particular circumstances. And grants which
have not been located would seem manifestly to be grants
of a specific quantity of land within exterior boundaries containing a larger quantity. This was a familiar class of Mexican grants, and is referred to by Mr. Justice Field in
Hornsby v. United States, 10 Wall. 224, 232, where, delivering
the opinion of the court, he said: "As we have had occasion
to observe in several instances, grants of the public domain
of Mexico, made by governors of the department of California, were of three kinds: 1st, grants by specific boundaries,
where the donee was entitled to the whole tract described;
2d, grants by quantity, as of one or more leagues situated at
some designated place, or within a larger tract described by
outboundaries, where the donee was entitled out of the general tract only to the quantity specified; and, 3d, grants of
places by name, where the donee was entitled to the tract
named according to the limits, as shown by its settlement and
possession, or other competent evidence. The greater part of
the grants which have come before this court for examination
have belonged to the second class."

OCTOBER TERVf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The mode in which private rights of property may be secured, and the obligations imposed upon the United States
by treaties fulfilled, belongs to the political department of the
government to provide. In respect to California, this was
done through the establishment of a judicial tribunal, but in
respect of the adjustment and confirmation of claims under
grants from the Mexican government in New Mexico and in
Arizona, Congress reserved to itself, prior to the passage of
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating the Court of Private
Land Claims, 26 Stat. 854, the determination of such claims,
enacting as to New Mexico "that the surveyor general for
the territory, under the instructions of the Secretary of the
Interior, should ascertain the origin, nature, character and
extent of all such claims, and for this purpose might issue
notices, summon witnesses, administer oaths and do all other
necessary acts; and should make a full report on such claims,
with his decision as to the validity or invalidity of each under
the laws, usages and customs of the country before its cession
to the United States; and that his report should be laid before Congress for such action thereon as might be deemed
just and proper, with a view to confirm bona fide grants, and
to give full effect to the treaty of 1848 between the United
States and Mexico." Astiazaran v. Santa Rita .Xining Company, supra; act of July 22, 1854, c. 103, ยง 8, 10 Stat. 308, 309.
And similarly, as to the surveyor general of Arizona, by the
act of July 15, 1870, c. 292, 16 Stat. 291, 304.
As to the claim in question, this officer made the report
.attached to one of the pleadings, but the claim was never confirmed. An authentic survey and-final determination of the
location and boundaries of such claims was contemplated in
any event. Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240. Then
came the passage 'of the act of March 3, 1891, repealing the
prior acts and creating the court whose decree is now under
review.
By the first subdivision of section thirteen of this act it is
provided that: "No claim shall be allowed that shall not
appear to be upon a title lawfully and regularly derived from
the government of Spain or Mexico, or from any of the States

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Republic of Mexico having lawful authority to make
'grants of land, and one that if not then complete and perfect
at the date of the acquisition of the territory by the United
States, the claimant would have had a lawful right to make
perfect had the territory not been acquired by the United
States, and that the United States are bound, upon the principles of public law, or by the provisions of the treaty of cession, to respect and permit to become complete and perfect if
the same was not at such date already complete and perfect."
Here, again, there are significant differences between this
phraseology and that used in the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41,
"to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State
of California," 9 Stat. 631, which provided that the board of
commissioners thereby created, the district court, and this
court, in deciding on the validity of any claim brought before
them, should "be governed by the treaty of Guadaloupe
Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages and customs of
the government from which the claim is derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
United States, so far as they are applicable," that is, the decisions theretofore given in relation to titles in Louisiana and
Florida, which were derived from the French or Spanish authorities previous to the cession to the United States. Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, 553.
But, under the act of March 3, 1891, it must appear, in order
to the confirmation of a grant by the Court of Private Land
Claims, not only that the title was lawfully and regularly
derived, but that, if the grant were not complete and perfect,
the claimant could, by right and not by grace, have demanded
that it should be made perfect by the former government, had
the territory not been acquired by the U3 nited States, and by
the treaty no grant could be considered obligatory which had
not been theretofore located.
It is contended on behalf of the United States that this
grant was void because the departmental officers had no power,
under the laws of Mexico in force when it purported to be
made, to make it without the approval of the supreme government, which it is not claimed had been given; and also, if

OCTOBER TERMJ, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

otherwise valid, that confirmation could not be accorded because the evidence failed to show that it was duly recorded in
accordance with the requirements of the Mexican laws; but
we need not enter upon the consideration of either of these
propositions, since, assuming that this was a valid grant made
by the proper officers and duly recorded, we concur with the
court below that it was the grant of a specific quantity of land
and not of the entire eighteen leagues contained within the
exterior boundaries, and not having been located at the date
of the treaty could not be confirmed.
It is to be noted that the petition of Don Jos6 Elias does
not appear in the expediente, and its nonproduction is nowhere
accounted for. The recitals in other parts of the proceedings
as to the contents of such a petition were not considered in
Unite. States v. Cambuston, 20 How. 59, 63, as conclusive or
even satisfactory evidence of that fact; and appellants' argument treats the exact terms of the application as of importance, since they insist it was a petition for all the vacant public
lands between the north boundary of Casita and the west
boundary of Tumacaeori and Calabazas. But the most that
can be claimed is that the petition was for seven and one half
sitios, as what was needed for the cattle of Don Elias and his
parents, and that Don Elias may have assumed that that number of sitios covered all the vacant lands. And as, in our
judgment, the expediente shows that what was directed to be
appraised, what was appraised, what was directed to be sold,
what was sold, what was paid for, and what purported to be
granted, was seven and one half sitios and two short caballerias, while the alleged preliminary survey indicated general
boundaries containing over eighteen sitios, we think, as the
Court of Private Land Claims did, that the grant was of seven
and a half sitios and two scant caballerias within exterior
boundaries, and that location was a prerequisite to any action
by the court.
Appellants insist that the grant of a certain quantity of land
situated at some designated place, or within a larger tract described by outboundaries, was not known to the "State of the
West," made up of Sonora and Sinaloa, and reference is made

"AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to certain laws of May 20, 1825, and of July 11, 1834, as
showing that lands in that State were to be surveyed before
they were sold, and sold by metes and bounds as surveyed.
The order of the superior board of the treasury of the department, set forth in the expediente, required compliance with
the provisions of the law of July 11, 1834, and also with the
regulations for surveying lands for raising cattle and horses
made under the law of May 20, 1825, and as to any overplus
within the lawful boundaries of Casita, required it not to be
published but appraised in conformity with article 2 of decree
No. 51 of May 12, 1835.
Article 30 of the law of 1825 provided that the owners of
sitios should place at their boundary termini monuments of
stone and mortar "as soon as possession thereof is given them;
and if within three months from the date the survey is concluded they do not do so," that a fine should be exacted from
them and monum.ents ordered constructed at their expense.
Article 63 of the law of 1834 was to the same effect, and read:
"It is the duty of owners of sitios to place upon the boundary
lines of their estates, landmarks of stone as ordered by the
statutes, as soon as they are in possession of their estates; and
if within three months counting from the date that they receive their title, they have not complied with this regulation,
they shall incur a penalty of twenty-five dollars, which they
shall pay to the judge for the public funds, and moreover shall
cause the said landmarks to be constructed at the cost of said
proprietors."
And it is said that i~n Sonora, (and as respects lands acquired
under the Gadsden treaty,) when public lands were parted
with, the transaction constituted an executed contract of purchase rather than a grant. Conceding that the boundaries
mentioned in these laws are not outboundaries but specific
boundaries, they are boundaries ascertained by authentic survey of specific tracts taken possession of as so delineated, and
it does not follow that these proceedings were anything more
than the Court of Private Land Claims found them in effect
to be, namely, a grant of a specific quantity of land, which
was to be afterwards located.
VOL. CLXI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Compliance with decree No. 51 of Sonora of May 12, 1835,
with reference to the overplus in La Casita was required, as
we have said, and moreover, the review of the proceedings
by the attorney general of the treasury states that the commissioner proceeded "to the resurvey of the ranch of Casita,
from which there resulted within this property the same nine
sitios the original surveyor, Jos6 Olave, measured and estimated on the 20th day of April, 1742, and nine million two
hundred thousand-quare varas more, which do not make half
a sitio, and, even if they had reached that fraction, they should
not be considered as overplus, under the provisions of the last
clause of article 2 of decree No. 51 of the 12th of May, 1835,
of the old State, and which is still in force."
That article is as follows:
"ARTIcLE 2. Those are likewise ' bona fjde' owners who,
under the descriptions given in their records of survey, occupy some excess of land; and they are entitled to such
excess, even after such excess is shown, without any other
requirement than that of paying for the excess in accordance
with the quality of land and the price which prevailed when
the land was measured and appraised; and only in case the
ownr does not want the excess, or when'such excess is very
great in the opinion of the government, upon the report of
the treasury, shall such excess be awarded to any one denouncing or soliciting it; and such person shall bear the expense of the resurvey, if the excess has not been ascertained.
In lands measured by calculation, (graduacion,) none shall bp
regarded as excess that does not exceed half a sitio."
It thus appears that the resur-ey of grants was provided
for to ascdrtain the excess over the quantity intended to be
granted, that unless the excess was more than half a sitio it
might be disregarded, and that if it exceeded that, the owner
of the original grant might be allowed to take it at the valuation. The application of Don Jos6 Elias was for a resurvey
of the Casita in order that he might obtain ihe overplus lands
therein on an appraisal, whereas if that ranch had been acquired by purchase ad corpno, that is to 'say, all the lands
included by certain metes and bounds, possession delivered

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and monuments set up, it is not apparent how the necessity
for having a resurvey could have existed; and so when in
1882 and 1886, the Mexican government was applied to by
defendant Camou, under the law of July 22, 1863, his application proceeded upon the theory that the grant under consideration was a grant of a specific quantity within exterior limits,
and what he sought and was accorded was an adjudication of
the overplus on paying the value thereof "in conformity with
the tariff in force at the time of the denouncement."
Certain articles of the law of July 22, 1863, treat of the
ascertainment and disposition of excesses where the indicated
boundaries are supposed to cover only a certain quantity of
land which, when resurveyed, turns out to be much larger
than as described in the titles; and such resurveys had been
practised from an early day and were recognized by Don Elias
himself in his application in respect of La Casita. Royal Decree, Oct. 15, 1754, sect. 7, Reynold's Span. & Mex. Land Law,
54; Law of July 11, 1834, chap. 9, sect. 3, Id. 187; Law of
July 22, 1863, Hall's Mex. Law, 174.
In any view, whether treated upon the principles applicable
to a voluntary grant or as a purchase and sale, appellants' contention that Don Elias and his parents took all the public
lands north of Casita as one tract by metes and bounds
could be sustained only on proof of a determination of silch
metes and bounds by actual survey and delivery of possession
accordingly.
Navamuel was instructed to survey seven and one half sitios
of the vacant public lands '" situated between the north boundary of the ranch of Casita and the west boundary of the
mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas," and to measure the
land between the north boundary of one tract and the west
boundary of another may be supposed to involve considerable
difficulty: However, it is said that the mission of Tumacacori
and Calabazas lay north of these lands, and the surveyor general of Arizona was of opinion that the claim should bind the
ranchos of Casita and Calabazas, "with the easterly and westerly lines so established as to include exactly seven and one
half square leagues and two caballerias." The proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

show that Navamuel understood that the sale was not to be.
of a particular tract for a sum in gross, but of a specific number of sitios at the upset price fixed by the appraisal of those
sitios, and that he was not to survey the whole of an existing
tract, but to delineate a tract containing the desired number
of sitios. With that understanding he apparently attempted,
partly by measurements and partly by conjecture, to survey a
parallelogram of 34:0 cordels by 222 cordels, which would contain seven and one half sitios, running a little over, and so far
from intending to include all the public lands, he consulted the
party "as to how he wanted the land squared," that is, the land
to come to him, and acted on his reply.
Appellants deny that Navamuel laid out a parallelogram
containing seven and a half sitios, and insist that instead he
designated the boundaries of a tract containing all the public
lands, being somewhat over eighteen sitios. They say that
the northwest and southwest corners were arrived at partly
by estimation; that the height of the grant as described was
449.82 cords and not 340 as stated; and that the distance from
the north cross monument to the northwest corner was over
470 cords instead of 200. Kavamuel did not visit the western
boundary, and the southwest corner as claimed seems on the
evidence not to be where that corner should be according to
the titulo. As to the northwest corner, Oury, in December,
1891, could find no place called Calaveras and no monument
200 cords west of the north cross monument, but as he did
find an old monument of loose rock four hundred and seventy
odd cords west at Calabazas pass, and because of Navamuel's
reference to the Pajarito mountains in that connection, he
concluded to accept that monument as the northwest corner;
in other words, he fixed on a point twelve and a half'miles
west as the point Navamuel placed at five miles and a fraction.
We fear that these speculations did injustice to NVavamuel, but
we think they make it quite clear that to apply the rules of
metes and bounds to the entire tract of vacant public lands
is quite inadmissible when taken with the other facts and
circumstances.
In common law conveyances the words "more or less,"

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-while sometimes having practically no effect, are frequently
added to prevent the precise quantity named from being conclusive on the parties, and may operate to make a sale of land
one in gross instead of by the acre, but the bare fact that
Navamuel estimated a portion of his measurements was not
equivalent to stamping "more or less" on the transaction or
rendering the specified quantity not of its essence.
So monuments control courses and distances, and courses
and distances control quantity, but where there is uncertainty
in specific description, the quantity named may be of decisive
weight, and necessarily so if the intention to convey only so
much and no more is plain.
These considerations need not be elaborated nor the common law cases cited examined, inasmuch as we are of opinion
on this record that the number of sitios specifically named
was controlling.
How much land was appraised and sold and paid for? The
minimum price at which the land could be appraised and sold
was $15 per sitio. The price paid was at that rate for exactly
seven and one half sitios and two caballerias. The commission to the appraisers was for the appraisement of seven and
one half sitios; the appraisement was for seven and one half
sitios; the procurator fiscal in his review of the proceedings
pointed out that the appraisers had erred in taking no account
of the two short caballerias, which he valued at five reals and
ten grains, raising the total value from $112.50 to $113.15;
the order for publication of notice referred to "the sitios surveyed for Don Jos6 Elias and Don Francisco Gonzalez" as
"having now been appraised;" and the notices published
were for the sale of "seven and one half sitios and two short
caballerias of land appraised at $113, 1 real and 10 grains."
The order striking off and selling the property to the purchasers, after reciting the assembling of the board, stated that
the crier having announced that the seven and one half sitios
and the two short caballerias of land were to be sold, and
that thereupon the agent of Don Jos6 Elias and his parents
came forward and again offered the one hundred and thirteen dollars, one real and ten grains, for which the land was

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

appraised, continued, "and the midday hour of twelve having
sounded, for the last time the crier said: ' Going once, twice,
three times; sold, sold, sold; may it do much good, good,
good, to Don Jos6 Elias and his parents, Don Francisco
Gonzalez and Dofla Balvanera IRedondo.' In these terms
this act was terminated, and there was publicly and solemnly
'sold the seven and one half sitios and two short caballerias
of land for raising cattle and horses, comprising the vacant
public lands situated between the boundaries of Casita and
those of the mission of Tumacacori and Calabazas in the
upper Pima country, in the jurisdiction bf the town of
Imuris, for the sum of one hundred and thirteen dollars,
one real and ten grains, in which they were appraised." It
is true that in the translation before us the words "comprising the vacant public lands ': are used, while in other parts of
the proceedings the specified quantity is described as "contained in" or "comprised in" the vacant public lands, as for
instance in the execution of the grant the words are "contained in the public lands." But we do not think this difference, in translation, or if existing in the original, can operate
to make this an appraisement, advertisement, and sale of all
the public lands north of Oasita, no matter what their extent,
but that these proceedings and the grant were plainly an
appraisement, advertisement, sale, purchase, and grant of the
specific quantity of seven and one half sitios and two caballerias scant. It is certain that the officers had no authority and
did not intend to sell 78,868 acres for the purchase price of
32,744 acres; that in all the proceedings the transaction was
limited to seven and one half sitios; that Navamuel determined what was needed by Elias as a cattle breeder, made
his survey, approved the appraisement, and published for bids
at "a better valuation," on that basis; and that the Mexican
government has construed the grant in the same way in ordering a resurvey, and thereupon adjudicating the excess over
seven and one half sitios.
This brings us to consider whether juridical possession was
delivered to the grantee as asserted by appellants.
In United States v. Pico, 5 Wall. 536, 539, where there was

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

a concession by specific boundaries, and the words "in extent
twelve square leagues" were added to the resolution of approval of the departmental assembly after the description of
the tract ceded, it was held that these words did not create a
limitation on the quantity granted, as they were evidently
not used for any such purpose, but merely indicated a conjectural estimate of the quantity, and Mr. Justice Field observed that "when, in Mexican grants, boundaries are given,
and a limitation upon :the quantity embraced within the
boundaries is intended, words expressing such intention are
generally used," and that in case of doubt as to the intention to
cede all the land within the designated boundaries, the doubt
would be removed by the juridical possession delivered to
the grantees, which "proceeding involved an ascertainment
and settlement of the boundaries of the lands granted by the
appropriate officers of the government specially designated
for that purpose, and has all the force and efficacy of a judicial determination."
In -Malain v. United States, 1 Wall. 282, 289, Mr. Justice
Field, again speaking for the court, in setting forth the act
of juridical possession described in the expediente in that case,
said: "Under the civil, as at the common law, a formal tradition or livery of seizin of the property was necessary. As
preliminary to this proceeding the boundaries of the quantity
granted had to be established, when there was any uncertainty
in the description of the premises. Measurement and segregation in such cases, therefore, preceded the final, delivery of
possession. By the Mexican law various regulations were
prescribed for the guidance in these matters of the magistrates of the vicinage. The conditions annexed to the grant
in the case at bar required the grantee to solicit juridical possession from the proper judge. In compliance with this requirement, withili four months after the issue of the grant,
he presented the instrument to the judge of the district, and
requested him to designate a day for delivering the possession.
The judge designated a day, and directed that the adjoining
proprietors be cited, and that measurers and counters be appointed. On the day designated the proprietors appeared,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and two measurers and two counters were appointed, and
sworn for the faithful discharge of their duties. A line provided for the measurement was produced, and its precise
length ascertained. The measurers then proceeded to measure off the land, the judge and the proprietors accompanying
them. The measurement being effected, the parties went to
the centre of the land, and there the judge directed the grantee to enter into the possession, which he did, and gave evidence of the fact ' by pulling up grass and making demonstration as owner of the land.' Of the various steps thus taken,
from the appointment of the day, until the final act of delivery, a complete record was kept by the judge, and by him
transmitted to the grantee after being properly entered upon
the ' book of possessions.'"
In -Moore v. Steinbach, 127 U. S. '(0, 80, the grant required
the grantee to "petition the proper judge to be put in juridical possession by him in virtue of this document, by whom
the boundaries shall be marked out, on the limits of which he
shall place the proper landmarks. The land now granted is
of the extent of four square leagues, more or less, as shown
by the map which accompanies the expediente. The judge
who shall give him possession shall have it measured in conformity with the evidence, the surplus that results remaining
in the nation for its proper use." This requirement of the
grant was not complied with, and this court said: "The
grantees were not invested with such title, and could not be,
without an official delivery of possession under the Mexican
government, and such delivery was not had, and could not be
had, after the cession of the country, except by American
authorities acting under a law of Congress."
Appellants' counsel contends that -' the juridical possession
of 'said seven and one half sitios and two short caballerias of
land, comprising the vacant public lands between the boundaries of Casita and those of Tumacacori and Calabazas,' was,
on January 7, 18413, the date of the grant, delivered by Ignacio Lopez, the treasurer general of the department of Sonora,
in the presence of the two witnesses, Antonio Teran y Peralta
and Joaquin Urias, to the grantees, in pursuance of the sur-

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-vey made November 24, 1841, and following days, in the pres-ence of Marcello Bonilla, the coterminous owner, by which
:survey the land was segregated from the public domain."
But Ignacio Lopez was not a judicial officer, and had no
authority to perform a judicial act; neither Lopez nor the
attending witnesses nor the grantees were, on the seventh
-of January, 1843, upon the land, nor anywhere near it, but
were at the city of Arizpe; the coterminous proprietors were
none-of them then called to give assent to the final act investing
the grantees with title and possession, and there was, of course,
no physical act on the part of the grantees accepting or taking
possession of the grant. The attempt of counsel is to make
.out the act of juridical possession by reference to the date
.of the survey, which was more than a year before the land
had been sold, bought, and paid for; nor was there at that
time any pretence of the formal delivery of possession if it
-could have been done by anticipation. The application, it
will be remembered, was for a resurvey of Casita, as well as
for a survey of the public land sought to be acquired, and it
.appears from the expediente that the mission of Tumacacori
.and Calabazas was represented by Don Marcelo Bonilla on
that occasion. And Navamuel also says that "in this manner was terminated the survey of the vacant public lands,
which include seven and one half sitios, and the party, when it
was made known to him, was satisfied and understood the area
it encloses and was warned to place, at the first opportunity,
fixed monuments of stone and mortar." But it still remained
for the property to be sold and purchased, and possession to
be taken, and though the applicant had the preference at the
price fixed by the appraisement, a higher bid would have taken
the property.
Nor are we prepared to accede to the suggestion that be-cause, in the final execution of the grant, the purchasers
were cautioned "to restrict and limit themselves to the
land, holdings, metes and bounds particularly described in the
hereinbefore inserted proceedings of survey," and to comply
with the law as to monuments at their boundary termini, therefore it is to be inferred that the act of juridical possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

had already taken place though not disclosed by Navamuel's
report.
'The seven and one half sitios could undoubtedly have been
locatedl, juridical possession delivered, and monuments of stone
and mortar put up, and the grantees would then have been
limited to their metes and bounds thus ascertained; but the
grantees did not do this, and, so long as these public lands
iemained in Mexico, were liable on resurvey to account for
the excess over what they actually bought on such terms as
the government imposed.
We have referred to the proceedings of 1882, 1886, in
Mexico as furnishing persuasive evidence of the proper constrfuction of this grant under Mexican law, and it may be
further observed that the adjudication of the overplus required
the location of the seven and a half sitios, which location
Mexico, as the granting government, asumed it had the right
to make, and made, out of the land within its jurisdiction.
In this way the grant was satisfied by the receipt of all that
the grantees had bought and were entitled to under the Meiican law, the result as to the overplus enuring to Camou's
cotenants by the terms of his petition.
In any view no reason is perceived for disregarding the construction thus put upon the titulo, and as the land purchased
was not located at the date of the cession, the United States
were not bound by the treaty to recognize the claim as of
right, nor could the Court of Private Land Claims confirm it.
The fact that a parallelogram of 340 cordels by 222 cordels,
making seven and one half sitios and two caballerias, if correctly measured from the initial point of Navamuel's survey,
would be partly within the Territory of Arizona, is immaterial.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PEcKIIAM was not a member of the court at the

time this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

