SMITH v. McKAY.
Statement of the Case.

The testimony was conflicting, and our examination of it
leads to the adoption of the conclusion of the Supreme Court
of the District, and its decree dismissing the bill is accordingly
Aflirmed.

SMITH v. McKAY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 83. Argued December 20, 1895.-

Decided March 2, 1896.

When, in a case appealed from a Circuit Court, the record discloses that
the defendants below appealed upon the express ground that the court
erred in taking jurisdiction of the bill and in not dismissing the bill
for want of jurisdiction, and prayed that their appeal should be allowed,
and the question of jurisdiction be certified to the Supreme Court, and
that said appeal was allowed, and the certificate further states that there
is sent a true copy of so much of the record as is necessary for the determination of the question of jurisdiction, and as part of the record so
certified is the opinion of the court below, in accordance with which
defendants' motion to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction was
denied, it sufficiently shows that the appeal was granted solely upon
the question of jurisdiction.
When the requisite citizenship of the parties appears, and the subjectmatter is such that the Circuit Court is competent to deal with it, the
jurisdiction of that court attaches, and whether the court sustains the
complainant's prayer for equitable relief, or dismisses the bill with leave
to bring an action at law, either is a valid exercise of jurisdiction; and if
any error be committed in the exercise of such jurisdiction, it can only
be remedied by an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, Gordon McKay, as trustee for the McKay
Swing Machine Association, and a citizen of the State of
R],ode Island, filed a bill of corhplaint against' Frank W.
Smith and others, citizens of the State of Massachusetts, doing business as copartners in the firm name of Smith, Stoughton & Payne. The bill was brought upon a lease between
said.parties, bearing date January 23, 1878, whereby the complainant had granted to the defendants, in consideration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

rent or license fees, the right to use certain sewing machines.
and other patented devices belonging to the complainant.
The bill alleged a failure by the defendants to comply with
the terms of the lease, and prayed for a discovery, accounting,
payment of rent, and for an injunction restraining the defendants from using the patented machines until they had fully
paid the amount found to be due.
The defendants filed an answer responding to various allegations of the bill, and averring that the complainant, so far
as he had any just cause of action, had a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy at law. Subsequently the defendants filed.
a special miiotion to dismiss the bill for the alleged reason that
the complainant had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy
at law. After argument this motion was denied. The cause
was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and at the May
term, 1889, an accounting was awarded, a master was appointed, and, on the coining in of his report, on December 22,
1891, a final decree was rendered that the complainant should
recover damages in excess of the sum of five thousand dollars
and cost of suit. From this decree an appeal was taken and
allowed to this couft, and error was assigned to the action of
the Circuit Court in taking jurisdiction of the bill and in not
dismissing the same for want of jurisdiction.
fr. 0austen Browne for appellants.
Hir. Payson Eliot
Tucker and Mr. Charles A llen Tayber were on his brief.
.Mr. James J. .Ztyers for appellee.
MR. JUSTIn SHm.Rs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The appellants seek to have this court review the action of
the Circuit Court in entertaining jurisdiction of a bill in equity
in a case in which, as they allege, it appears that the complainant had a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law.
It is contended on the part of the. appellee that we should
dismiss this appeal, because the question of jurisdiction is not
properly certified to this court.

SMITH v. McKAY.
Opinion of the Court.

The record discloses that the defendants below appealed
upon the express ground that the court erred in taking jurisdiction of the bill and in not dismissing the bill for want of

jurisdiction, and prayed that their appeal should be allowed,
and the question of jurisdiction be certified to the Supreme
Court, and that said appeal was allowed. The certificate
further states that there is sent a true copy of so much of the
record as is necessary for the determination of the question of
jurisdiction, and as part of the record so certified is the opinion of the court below, in accordance with which defendants'
motion to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction was
denied. It, therefore, appears that the appeal was granted
solely upon the question of jurisdiction, and this brings the
case within the rulings in Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S.168,
and In 'e Lehigh -Mining Co., 156 U. S.322.
It is further contended by the appellee that this appeal
should be dismissed, because there is no right of appeal to this
court in such a case as the present one.
The appellants claim that this appeal is within the first
class under section five of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,
providing that "in any case in which the question of the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, in such case the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from
the court below for decision."
The position of the appellee is that only questions of Federal jurisdiction can be brought directly here; that if the Cir-cuit Court has jurisdiction of the parties and of the matters in
-dispute, the fact that it is contended that it has no jurisdiction on its equity side raises no question of jurisdiction within
the meaning of the act under which this appeal is taken; and
that whether a case has been made out by the plaintiff in
equity or at law is not a question that puts in issue the jurisdiction of the court in the sense in which that phrase is used
in the Judiciary Act.
The question thus raised has never been directly decided by
this court: It did present itself in the case of World's Columbian Exposition case, 18 U. S. App. 42. That was a case
in which the Circuit Court of the United States for the North-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.Opinion of the Court.

ern District of Illinois had granted, at the suit of the United
States, an injunction against the World's Columbian Exposition, a corporation of the State of Illinois, restraining the
defendant from opening the exposition grounds or buildings
to the public on Sunday. From this decree an appeal was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,
and that court, speaking through Chief Justice Fuller, presiding, stated and disposed of the question as follows:
"The appellees have submitted a motion to dismiss the
appeal upon the grounds that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was in issue; that the case involved the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States; that the
constitutionality of laws of the United States was drawn in
question therein; that therefore the appeal from a final
decree would lie to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and not to this court; and hence that this appeal, which is
from an interlocutory order, cannot be maintained under the
seventh section of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891.
"We do not understand that the power of the Circuit Court
to hear and determine the cause was denied, but that the appellants contended that the United States had not, by their bill,
made a case properly cognizable in a court of equity. The
objection was the want of equity, and not the want of power.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was, therefore, not in
issue within the intent and meaning of the act."
We regard this as a sound exposition of the law, and, applied
to the case now in hand, it demands a dismissal of the appeal,
on the ground that the objection was not to the want of power
in the Circuit Court to entertain the suit, but to the want of
equity in the complainant's bill. The appellants' contention
in this respect would require us to entertain an Appeal from
the Circuit Court in every case in equity, in which the defendant should choose to file a demurrer to the bill on the ground
that there was a remedy at law.
When the requisite citizenship of the parties appears, and
the subject-matter is such that the Circuit Court is competent
to deal with it, the jurisdiction of that court attaches, and
whether the court should sustain the complainant's prayer

