OCTOBER- TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the city of Denison, "shall specify for what purpose they were
issued," was not satisfied by a bond that purported on its face
to be issued by virtue of an ordinance, the date of which was
given, but not its title or contents.
The conclusion we have reached upon legal grounds, and in
accordance with our former decisions, is the more satisfactory,
because of the long time which elapsed before any question
was raised by the city as to the validity of the bonds. The
city having authority, under some circumstances, to .put these
bonds upon the market and having issued them under the corporate seal of the city, and under the attestation of its highest
officer, certifying that they were issued in-payment of a subscription of stock made in pursuance of the city's charter, the
principles of justice demand that the bonds, in the hands of
honafide holders for value, should be met according to their
terms, unless some clear, well settled rule of law stands in the
way. No such obstacle exists.
The court answers the first, second, andfourth questions in
the negative,and the third in the affirmative. Its answer
is in the negative to the first clause, and in the affirmative
to the second clause, of the fifth question.

SWEARINGEN v. UNITED

STATES.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 66.

Submitted October 21, 1895. -Decided

March 9, 1896.

The newspaper article, in the note on the opposite page, while its language
is coarse, vulgar, and, as applied to an individual, libellous, was not of
such a lewd, lascivious and obscene tendency, calculated to corrupt and
debauch the minds and morals of those into whose hands it might fall,
as to make it an offence to deposit it in the post office of the United
States, to be conveyed by mail and delivered to the person to whom it
was addressed.

IN the District Court of the United States for the District

SWEARINGEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

of Kansas, November term, 1895, Dan K. Swearingen was indicted, under the provisions of section 3893 of the Revised
Statutes, for depositing in the post office of the United States,
at Burlington, Kansas, to be conveyed by mail and delivered
to certain named persons a certain publication or newspaper,
entitled "The Burlington Courier," dated September 21, 1894,
and containing a certain article charged to be of an obscene,
lewd, and lascivious character, and non-mailable matter.'
The indictment contained three counts, differing only in
the names of the persons to whom copies of the newspapers
That article is added by the reporter to the statemepit of the case, only
omitting the names and substituting dashes. " About the meanest and
most universally hated and detested thing in human shape that ever cursed
this community is the red headed mental and physical bastard that flings
filth under another man's name down on Neosho street. He has slandered
and maligned every Populist in the State, from the governor down to the
humblest voter. This black hearted coward is known to every decent man,
woman, and child in the community as a liar, perjurer, and slanderer, who
would sell a mother's honor with less hesitancy and for much less silver
than Judas betrayed the Saviour, and who would pimp and fatten on a sister's shame with as much unction as a buzzard gluts in carrion. He is a
contemptible scoundrel and political blackleg of the lowest cut. He is pretending to serve Democracy and is at the same time in the pay of the Republican party. He has bpen known as the companion of negro strumpets
and has revelled in lowest debauches. He hits criminally libelled and slandered such men as -,,
,
,
, and
dozens of others whom we might name, who are recognized by all parties
as among the oldest and most respected citizens of the county. His soul,
if he has a soul, is blacker than the blackest shades of hell. He is the embodiment of treachery, cowardice, and dishonor, and hasn't the physical
nor moral courage to deny it. He stands to-day hated, despised, and detested as all that is low, mean, debased, and despicable. We propose to
have done with the knave. We have already devoted too much valuable
space to him. Time and again has he been proven a wilful, malicious, and
cowardly liar, and instead of subsiding he has redoubled his lies. He lies
faster than ten men could refute ; and for what ? A little Republican slushmoney I -He is lower, meaner, filthier, rottener than the rottenest strumpet
that prowls the streets by night. Again we say, we are done with him.
The sooner Populists and Populist newspapers snub him, quit him cold, ignore
him entirely, the sooner will he cease to be thought of only as a pimp that
any man can buy for $1 or less. He is too little and rotten to merit the notice of men. We have been wrong in noticing the poltroon at all, and
henceforth are done."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

were addressed. In each count the article was charged to be
of an obscene, lewd and lascivious nature. The defendant
moved to quash the indictment because the same did not state
or charge a public offence, and because there were several
offences improperly joined in each count. This motion was
overruled. The defendant pleaded not guilty; a trial was
had; and a verdict of guilty was rendered. Thereupon the
defendant filed a motion in arrest of judgment and for a new
trial. These motions were overruled, and the defendant was
sentenced to be imprisoned at hard labor in the penitentiary
for the period of one year, to pay a fine of $50, and to pay
the costs of prosecution. Thereupon a writ of error was sued
out to this court.
MP. J. D. M.fcCleverty for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. A.ssistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. Jus'rCE SHIRAs, after

stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The record discloses that the defendant below was, in the
month of September, 1894, the editor and publisher of a newspaper called "The Burlington Courier," and was indicted for
having mailed several copies of the paper, containing the
article referred to in the previous statement, addressed to different persons.
The bill of exceptions shows that, at the trial, the government offered the article in question in evidence, and that the
defendant objected for the reasons that no public offence was
stated in the indictment, that there was a misjoinder of
offences, and that the words of said newspaper article did not
constitute unmailable -matter. These objections were overruled, and an exception was allowed. The article was then
read to the jury, and evidence was offered and received tending to show that on September 21, 18947, copies of the newspaper containing the said article were mailed by employis of
the defendant, addressed severally to Riggs, Cowgill and

SWEARINGEN v. UNITED STATES.
Qpinion of the Court.

Lane, who were regular subscribers to the paper, and whose
names were on the mail list. The defendant, on the ground
of its insufficiency, moved to strike out the evidence as to the
mailing of any paper to Lane or Cowgill. This motion was
overruled, as was likewise a motion to compel the district
attorney to elect upon which count of the indictment he
would rely. The defendant offered no evidence, and the
court charged the jury that the newspaper article in evidence, which the defendant admitted he published, was
obscene and unmailable matter, and that the only thing for.
the jury to pass upon was whether the evidence satisfied them,
beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant deposited, or
caused to be deposited, in the post office at Burlington, Kansas, newspapers containing said article. To the rulings of the
court overruling the motions and to the charge exceptions
were taken and allowed.
As we think that the court erred in charging the jury that
the newspaper article in question was obscene and unmailable
matter, it will not be necessary for us to consider the merits
of those assignments which allege error in the admission of
evidence.
This prosecution was brought under section 3893 of the
Revised Statutes, which declares that "every obscene, lewd
or lascivious book, pamphlet, picture, paper, writing or other
publication of

an indecent character

.

.

.

are hereby

declared to be non-mailable matter, and shall not be conveyed
in the mails, nor delivered from any post office, nor by any
letter carrier; and any person who shall knowingly deposit
or cause to be deposited, for mailing or delivery, anything
declared by this section to be non-mailable matter, and any
person who shall knowingly take the same or cause the same
to be taken from the mails for the purpose of circulating or
disposing of or aiding in the circulation or disposition of the
same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, for
each and every offence, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than five thousand dollars, or be imprisoned
at hard labor not less than one year nor more than ten years,
or both, at the discretion of the court."
vo. ci xI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The indictment contained three counts, in each of which the
offence charged was the mailing of a copy of a newspaper containing the article referred to in the previous statement, and
which was alleged to be "an obscene, lewd and lascivious
article."
As already stated, the court charged the jury that the newspaper article was obscene and unmailable matter, and that the
only question for the jury to pass upon was whether the defendant deposited the same in the post office at Burlington,
Kansas.
The language of the statute is that "every obscene, lewd or
lascivious book or paper" is unmailable, from which it might
be inferred that each of those epithets pointed out a distinct
offence. But the indictment alleges that the newspaper article in question was obscene, lewd and lascivious. If each
adjective in the statute described a distinct offence, then these
counts would be bad for duplicity, and the defendant's motion
in arrest of judgment for that reason ought to have been sustained. We, however, prefer to regard the words "obscene,
lewd or lascivious," used in the statute, as describing one and
the same offence. That was evidently the view of the pleader
and of the court below, and we think this is an admissible
construction.
Regarding the indictment as charging, in each count, a single distinctive offence, to wit, the mailing of an obscene, lewd
and lascivious paper, we think the court below erred in chatging the jury that the evidence, so far as the character of the
paper was concerned, sustained the charge, and that the only
duty of the jury was to find whether the defendant knowingly
deposited or caused to be deposited in the post office newspapers containing the article so described.
Assuming that it was within the province of the judge to
determine whether the publication in question was obscene,
lewd and lascivious, within the meaning of the statute, we do
not agree with the court below in thinking that the language
and tenor of this newspaper article brought it within such
meaning. The offence aimed at, in that portion of the statute we are now considering, was the use of the mails to circu-

