OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

term and the time at which it was tried, and the only difference between the allegation in the indictment and the proof
in the case is that during this trial, which occupied several
days, the plaintiff in error swore on the 6th of June instead
of on the 7th, as alleged in the indictment, to the matter
which was alleged to be false. The date upon which the evidence was given, which was alleged to have been false,
appeared by the stenographer's minutes, who took the evidence on the'trial, to have been the 6th of June. This is no
record, and it is not within the principle upon which the cases
relied upon by counsel- for plaintiff in error were decided.
Such a variance as appears in this case is not material. Rex
v. ooppad, 3 0. & P. 59; .Keator v. People, 32 Michigan,
484; People v. Bog, 2 Parker's Cr. IRep. (N. Y.) 10. It will
be seen that the time was stated under a videlicet in this indictment, although that fact is probably not very material. The
opinion written by the learned judge in denying the motion
for a new trial and in arrest of judgment says all that is necessary to be said in this case, and we concur entirely in the
conclusion reached by him. 68 Fed. Rep. 880.
The judgment must be
A_ffirmed.

ORNELAS v. RUIZ.
APPEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE WPSTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 622. Argued January 18, 1896. -Decided

March 16, 1896.

The appellees were brought before a Circuit Court commissioner in the Western District of Texas, charged by the Mexican consul with the commission, in Mexico, of a crime extraditable under the treaty of June 20,
1862. The commissioner found the evidence sufficient to warrant their
commitment for extradition. On the application of the prisoners a writ
of habeas corpus,was issued by the United States District Judge, directed
to the marshal of the district. The judge, after hearing, decided that
the offences charged were political offences, and not extraditable, and
ordered the prisoners discharged. From this judgment the consul appealed to this court. Held, that as his government was the real party

ORNELAS v. RUIZ.
Statement of the Case.
interested, the appeal was properly prosecuted by him; and as the construction of the treaty was drawn in question, It was properly taken to
this court.
The order of the District Court requiring the petitioners to enter into recognizances for their appearance to answer its judgment was rightly made.
A writ of habeas corpus cannot perform the office of a writ of error, and
In extradition proceedings, if the committing magistrate has jurisdiction
of the subject-matter and of the accused, and the offence charged is
within the terms of the treaty of extradition, and the magistrate, in
arriving at a decision to hold the accused, has before him competent
legal evidence on which to exercise his judgment as to whether the
facts are sufficient to establish the criminality of the accused for the
purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on habeas
corpus.
Whether an extraditable crime has been committed is a question of mixed
law and fact, but chiefly of fact, and the judgment of the magistrate
rendered in good faith on legal evidence that the accused is guilty of
the act charged, and that It constitutes an extraditable crime, cannot be
reviewed on the weight of evidence, and is final for the purposes of the
preliminary examination unless palpably erroneous in law.
It is enough if it appear that there was legal evidence on which the com•missioner might properly conclude that the accused had committed
offences within the treaty as charged, and so be justified in exercising
his power to commit them to await the action of the Executive Department

Ox complaints made by Plutarco Ornelas, consul of the
Republic of Mexico, charging Juan Duque, Inez Ruiz, and
Jesus Guerra with the commission of murder, arson, robbery,
afhd kidnapping, at the village of San Ygnacio, in the State
of Tamaulipas, Republic of Mexico, on December 10, 1892;
Jthat they were fugitives from justice of the State of Tamaulipas and the Republic of Mexico, and had fled into the jurisdiction of the United States for the purpose of seeking an
asylum; and that the alleged crimes were enumerated and,
embraced in the treaty of extradition then in force between
the United States and the Republic of Mexico, warrants were
issued by L. F. Price, commissioner of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Texas, duly
authorized, for their apprehension, on which they were arrested and brought before the commissioner to answer the
premises and to be dealt with according to law and the provisions of the treaty. The cases were heard, and the commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of thLe Case.

sioner found that the evidence was sufficient in law to justify
their commitment on such charges, and that they should be
placed in custody to await the order of the President of the
United States in the premises.
Thereupon Ruiz, Guerra and Duque applied to the District
Court of the United 'States for the Western District of Texas
for writs of habeas corpus, alleging that they were unlawfully
restrained of their liberty by the United States marshal for
that district, and praying that they be released.
The writs were issued, and the marshal made his return,
showing that he held petitioners by virtue of warrants issued
by the United States commissioner on the application of the
Mexican government for their extradition on the aforesaid
charges. With the writs of habeas corpus were issued writs
of certioari directing the commissioner to send up the original papers and a transcript of the testimony on which the
prisoners were committed. This was done, and on consideration of the cases the District Court herd on the evidence that
the offences with which petitioners were charged were purely
political offences, for the commission of which petitioners were
not extraditable, and entered a final order discharging petitioners from the custody of the marshal on giving bond for
their appearance to answer the judgment on appeal. From
this final order, the consul of the Republic of Mexico prayed
an appeal to this court.
The following are articles of the extradition treaty between
the United States and the Republic of Mexico proclaimed
June 20, 1862, 12 Stat. 1199:
"Article I. It is agreed that the contracting parties shall,
on requisitions made in their name, through the medium of
their respective diplomatic agents, deliver up to justice persons who, being accused of the crimes enumerated in article
third of the present treaty, committed within the jurisdiction
of the requiring party, shall seek an asylum, or shall be found
within the territories of the other: Provided, That this shall
be done only when the fact of the commission of the crime
shall be so established as that the laws of the country in
which the fugitive or the person so accused shall be found,

ORNELAS v. RUIZ.
Statement of the Case.

would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for
trial if the crime had been there committed.

"Article II. In the case of crimes committed in the frontier States or Territories of the two contracting parties, requisitions may be made through their respective diplomatic
agents, or through the chief civil authority of said States or
Territories, or through such chief civil or judicial authority of
the districts or counties bordering on the frontier as may for
this purpose be duly authorized by the said chief civil authority of the said' frontier States or Territories, or when, from
any cause, the civil authority of such State or Territory shall
be suspended, through the chief military officer in command
of such State or Territory.
"Article III. Persons shall be so delivered up who shall be
charged, according to the provisions of this treaty; with any
of the following crimes, whether as principals, accessories, or
accomplices, to wit: Murder, (including assassination, parricide, infanticide, and poisoning,) assault with intent to commit
murder, mutilation, piracy, arson, rape, kidnapping, defining
the same to be the taking and carrying away of a free person
by force or deception; forgery, including the forging or making, or knowingly passing or putting in circulation counterfeit
coin or bank notes, or other paper current as money, with intent to defraud any person or persons; the introduction or
making of instruments for the fabrication of counterfeit coin
or bank notes, or other paper current as money; embezzlement of public moneys, robbery, defining the same to be the
felonious and forcible taking from the person of anothor of
goods or money to any value, by violence or putting him in
fear; burglary, defining the same to be breaking and entering
into the house of another with intent to commit felony; and
the crime of larceny, of cattle, or other goods and chattels, of
the value of twenty-five dollars or more, when the same is
committed within the frontier States or Territories of the contracting parties.
"Article IV. On the part of each country the surrender of
fugitives from justice shall be made only by the authority of
the executive thereof, except in the case of crimes committed

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

within the limits of the frontier States or Territories, in which
latter case the surrender may be made by the chief civil authority thereof, or such chief civil or judicial authority of the
districts or counties bordering on the frontier as may for this
purpose be duly authorized by the said chief civil authority of
the said frontier States or Territories, or, if, from any cause,
the civil authority of such State or Territory shall be suspended, then such surrender may be made by the chief military officer in command of such State or Territory.
"Article V. All expenses whatever of detention and delivery effected in virtue of the preceding provisions shall be
borne and defrayed by the government or authority of the
frontier State or Territory in whose name the requisition shall
have been made.
"Article VI. The provisions of the present treaty shall not
be applied in any manner to any crime or offence of a purely
political character, nor shall it embrace the return of fugitive
slaves, nor the delivery of criminals whd, when the offence was
committed, shall have been held in the place where the offence
was committed in the condition of slaves, the same being expressly forbidden by the constitution of Mexico; nor shall the
provisions of the present treaty be applied in any manner to
the crimes enumerated in the third article committed anterior
to the date of the exchange of the ratifications hereof.
"1Neitherof the contracting parties shall be bound to deliver up its own citizens under the stipulations of this treaty."
.Mr. J HI. McLeary for appellant. .Mr. Joki IF. Foster,
Mr. S. F. _Phillips, and Mr. F. D. M Kenney were on his
brief.
-Mr. T. J. XoMinn for appellee.
on his brief.

Mr. WF. E. Brooker was

M . CHIEF JusTicE FuLLER,after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The Republic of Mexico applied for the extradition of these
petitioners by complaints made under oath by its consul at

ORIELAS v. RUIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

Sah Antonio, Bexar County, Texas, under section 5270 of the
Revised Statutes. The official character of this officer must be
taken as sufficient evidence of his authority, and as the government he represented was the real party interested in resisting
the discharge, the appeal was properly prosecuted by him on
its behalf.

Widenhu8'8 eae, 120 U. S. 1.

As the construc-

tion of the treaty was drawn in question the appeal was
taken directly to this court, and the District Court rightly
required petitioners, under Rule 34, to enter into recognizance
for their appearance to. answer its judgment.
The legislative provisions on the subject of extradition are
to be found in sections 5270 to 5280, constituting Title LXVI

of the Revised Statutes. Section 5270 provides: "Whenever
there is a treaty or convention for extradition between the
government of the United States and any foreign government, any Justice of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judge, District Judge, commissioner authorized so to do by any of the
courts of the United States, or judge of a court of record of
general jurisdiction of any State, may, upon complaint made
under oath, charging any person found within the limits of
any State, district, or Territory, with having committed within
the jurisdiction of any such foreign government any of the
crimes provided for by such treaty or convention, issue his
warrant for the apprehension of the person so charged, that
he may be brought before such justice, judge, or commissioner,
to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and

considered. If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence sufficient to sustain the charge under the provisions of the proper
treaty or convehtion, he shall certify the same, together with
a copy of all the testimony taken before him, to the Secretary
of State, that a warrant may issue upon the requisition of the
proper authorities of such foreign governinent, for the surrender of such person, according to the stipulations of the
treaty or convention; and he shall issue his warrant for the
commitment of the person .so charged to the proper jail, there
to remain until such surrender shall be made."

In the extradition case of In re Stupy, 12 Blatchford, 501,
Mr. Justice Blatchford, then District Judge, carefully consid-

O.CTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ered the provisions of the Revised Statutes in respect of the
issue of writs of habeas corp-us and certiorari by the courts
and judges of the United States, Rev. Stat. §§ 751 to 761,
and the acts of Congress from which those sections were
brought forward, and pointed out that the general language
used is as applicable to a case where the party is in custody
under process issued on a final judgment of a court of the
United States on a conviction on an indictment as it is to a
case where a party is in custody under any other process;
that it could not be successfully contended that these provisions have the effect to authorize a court of the United
States, which has no direct power given to it to review the
final judgment of another court of the United States in a
given case, to review such judgment on the metits under the
indirect authority of a writ of habeas corpus; and that, therefore, as the statute in respect of extradition gives no right of
review to be exercised by any court or judicial officer, but the
magistrate is to certify his findings or the testimony to the
Secretary of State, that the case may be reviewed by the Executive Department of the government, the court issuing the
writ may "inquire and adjudge whether the commissioner
acquired jurisdiction of the matter, by conforming to the
requirements of the treaty and the statute; whether he exceeded his jurisdiction; and whether he had any legal or
competent evidence of facts before him, on which to exercise
a judgment as to the criminality of the accused. But such
court is not to inquire whether the legal evidence of facts
before the commissioner was sufficient or insufficient to
warrant his conclusion."
By repeated decisions of this court it is settled, that a writ
of habeas corpus cannot perform the office of a writ of error,
and that, in extradition proceedings, if the committing magistrate has jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the accused,
and the offence charged is within the terms of the treaty of
extradition, and the magistrate, in arriving at a decision to
hold the accused, has before him competent legal evidence on
which to exercise his judgment as to whether the facts are
sufficient to establish the criminality of the accused for the

ORNELAS v. RUIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on
habeas coTus. In r'e Oteiza y Cortez, Petitioner, 136 U. S.
330; Benson v. .McMahon, 127 U. S. 457; Fong Yue Ting v.
United ,States, 149 U. S. 698, 714.
As the English extradition act of 1870, 33 & 34 Vict. c. 52,
extracts from sections 3 and 11 of which are given below,contemplates an independent examination on habeas corpus
in every -case, if applied for, as in effect part of the proceedings, it has been held that the courts have power to go into
the whole matter under the writ so provided for. In re Ca8tioni, L. R. 1 Q. B. 1891, 149; In re Arton, 1896, 1 Q. B.
108. But the legislation of Congress in respect of extradition
is widely different, and the scope of inquiry on the writ of
habeas corpus is necessarily much narrower.
Whether an extraditable crime has been committed is a
question of mixed law and fact, but chiefly of fact, and the
judgment of the magistrate rendered in good faith on legal
evidence that the accused is guilty of the act charged, and.
that it constitutes an extraditable crime, cannot be reviewed
on the weight of evidence, and is final for the purposes of the
preliminary examination unless palpably erroneous in law.
15. "A fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered if the offence in respect
of which his surrender is demanded is one of a political character, or if
he prove to the satisfaction of the police magistrate, or the court before
whom he is brought on habeas corpus, or to the Secretary of State, that
the requisition for his surrender has in fact been made with a view to
try or punish him for an offence of a political character."
11. "If the police magistrate commits a fugitive criminal to prison, he
shall inform such criminal that he will not be surrendered until after the
expiration of fifteen days, and that he has a right to apply for a writ of
habeas corpus. Upon the expiration of the said fifteen days, or, if a writ
of habeas corpus is issued, after the decision of the court upon the return
to the writ, as the case may be, or after such further period as may be
allowed In either case by a Secretary of State, it shall be lawful for a
Secretary of State by a warrant under his hand and seal, to order the
fugitive criminal (if not delivered on the decision of the court) to be
surrendered to such person as may in his opinion be duly authorized to
receive the fugitive criminal by the foreign State from which the requisition for the surrender proceeded, and such fugitive criminal shall be surrendered accordingly."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It must be assumed on this record that the commissioner
was duly authorized; that petitioners were not citizens of
the United States but were citizens of Mexico; that the acts
charged were committed in Mexico, and were considered
crimes under both governments; that no objection requiring
consideration exists in the mode of procedure; and that the
commissioner had jurisdiction of the person, and of the subject-matter, if, on the evidence, the offences charged were
within the terms of the treaty.
The release of petitioners was ordered on the sole ground
that, as appears from the portion of the opinion of the learned
District Tudge contained in the record, this raid was part of
"a political movement, having for its purpose the overthrow
of the existing government in -Mexico, and that the offences
committed by the petitioners and their associates in their vain
and visionary attempt to accomplish their purpose were purely
political offences within the meaning of the sixth article of
the treaty of extradition." The evidence before the commissioner, from which this conclusion was deduced, tended to
show that on December 10, 1892, a band of armed men to the
number of one hundred and thirty or forty, under the leadership of one Francisco Benevides, passed over the Rio Grande
from Texas into Mexico, and attacked about forty Mexican
soldiers stationed at the village of San Ygnacio; killing and
wounding some of them, and capturing others, who were
afterwards released; burning their barracks and taking away
their horses and equipments; that private citizens were also
violently assaulted; horses belonging to them taken; houses
burned; small sums of money extorted from women; clothes,
provisions, and goods appropriated; and three citizens kidnapped and carried over the river to the Texas side, finally
escaping; that these men were bandits, without uniforms or
flag, but with a red band on their hats; and that Garza
was not there and had nothing to do with the expedition.
The band remained on the Mexican side of the river about
six hours and recrossed at the village ford. Petitioners were
members of the band, and citizens of Mexico, as appeared
from the complaints and testimony, though one of them at

ORNELAS v. RUIZ.
Opinion of the Court.

least had resided a large part of the time, for many years, in
Texas. Evidence on behalf of petitioners was adduced indicating that there had been a revolutionary movement on that
border under one Garza in 1891; that indictments had been
found against the participants for violation of the neutrality
laws; and that the aim, object and purpose of Benevides'
men was the same as Garza's, "to cross over the river and
fight against the government."
In the course of his opinion the District Judge referred to
the views of the State Department as to the transaction at
San Ygnacio. We presume this reference is to the note of
Mr. Secretary Gresham to the Minister of Mexico, May
13, 1893, in respect of the extradition of Benevides. The
facts were reviewed therein by the Secretary, and it was held
that the acts for which his extradition was asked were "not
of such a purely political character as to exclude them from
the operation of the treaty." The Secretary concluded his
resum6 with these words: "The idea that these acts were
perpetrated with bona fde political or revolutionary designs
is negatived by the fact that immediately after this occurrence, though no superior armed force of the Mexican government was in the vicinity to hinder their advance into the
country, the bandits withdrew with their booty across the
river into Texas." But extradition was not granted because
it appeared that Benevides was a citizen of the United States.
The District Judge entertained different views from those
of the Secretary, and arrived at a different result from that
reached by the commissioner on the evidence on which the
latter proceeded, and so was induced to substitute his judgment for that of the commissioner, in whom was reposed the
authority of decision, unless jurisdiction were lacking.
Can it be said that the commissioner had no choice on the
evidence but to hold, in view of the character of the foray,
the mode of attack, the persons killed or captured, and the
kind of property taken or destroyed, that this was a movement in aid of a political revolt, an insurrection or a civil war,
and that acts which contained all the characteristics of crimes
under the ordinary law were exempt from extradition because

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the political intentions of those who committed them?
In our opinion this inquiry must be answered in the negative.
The contention that the right of the executive authority to
determine when offences charged are or are not purely political is exclusive is not involved in any degree; nor are we
concerned with the question of the actual criminality of
petitioners if the commissioner had probable cause for his
action. It is enough if it appear that there was legal evidence
on which the commissioner might properly conclude that the
accused had committed offences within the treaty as charged,
and so be justified in exercising his power to commit them to
await the action of the Executive Department. The rule as
to probable cause was thus laid down by Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, sitting as a committing magistrate, in Burr's case:
"On an application of this kind I certainly should not require
that proof which would be necessary to convict the persons to
be committed, on a trial in chief; nor should I even require
that which should absolutely convince my own mind of the
guilt of the accused; but I ought to require, and I should
require, that probable cause be shown; and I understand
probable cause to be a case made out by proof furnishing
good reason to believe that the crime alleged has been committed by, the person charged with having committed it."
1 Burr's Trial, 11; Benson v. .Me.fahon, 127 U. S. 457, 462;
In re Farez, 7 Blatchford, 345; In re Ezeta, 62 Fed. Rep. 972,
981.
We are of opinion that it cannot be held that there was substantially no evidence calling for the judgment of the commissioner as to whether he would, or would not, certify and
commit under the statute, and that, therefore, as matter of
law, he had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter; and,
this being so, his action was not open to review on habeas
0o2yPus.
Tkefinal order of the District Court is therefore -reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings in confortuity to law.

