OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

FISHBACK v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 341. Argued January 22, 23, 1896. -Decided

March 2, 1696.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction of a bill to enjoin
the collection of separate county taxes by separate county officers, in
the State of Arkansas, against the Western Union Telegraph Company,
(a corporation which has accepted the provisions of the Statute now
codified in the Revised Statutes as Section 5263 to Section 5269,) on its
line in each of said counties in that State, when the amount of the tax in
no one of the counties reaches the sum of two thousand dollars ; and
this result is not affected by the fact that if the county assessments were
aggregated they would exceed two thousand dollars, as the several county
clerks or tax collectors cannot be joined in a single suit in a Federal
court, and the jurisdiction sustained on the ground that the total amount
involved exceeds the jurisdictional limitation ; nor by the fact that the
railroad commissioners of the State, who had already acted in the matter,
were made parties defendant to the suit.

THIS was a bill filed by the Western Union Telegraph
Company January 2, 1894, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas against William
M. Fishback, Henry B. Armistead, and Charles B. Mills, constituting the board of railroad commissioners for the State of
Arkansas, and some forty-seven clerks of different counties in
the State, in which complainant had lines of telegraphi, alleging that the complainant was a corporation and citizen of
New York and each of the defendants was a citizen of Arkansas, "and that the amount or value in controversy in this suit
exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest
and costs;" that on and prior to April 8, 1893, complainant
was and had ever since been engaged in the business of operating telegraph lines and sending telegrams over the same to different parts of the United States, with *extensive cable lines
under the sea, having its general office in the city of New York;
that on that day the general assembly of Arkansas passed an

FISHBACK v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

97

Statement of the Case.

act entitled "An act to assess and collect taxes from certain
corporations," a copy whereof was attached to and made part
of the bill; that, as stated in the company's return under the
act, the value of the lines of the company within Arkansas
made upon the basis of actual cost less depreciation, would
not exceed $102,229.68, and that if valued on the basis of the
cost of the reproduction of an entirely new line, would be
$282,763.71 ; that any apportionment to Arkansas of the company's capital stock on a mileage basis would necessarily include
the value of bonds, real estate, contracts, franchises, and patent
rights, all of which were outside the jurisdiction of the State
of Arkansas; that in Arkansas the gross receipts averaged
$23 per mile of wire, and that the net earnings in Arkansas
did not exceed $6 per mile of wire; that taking the entire
capital of the company at the stock exchange price of July
1, 1893, if the apportionment thereof to the State of Arkansas
upon the mileage basis were taxed at an average of two per
cent, "which is probably the average rate of taxation in
Arkansas," it would require the companyi to pay a tax annually
in Arkansas of nearly fifty per cent of its net earnings from all
its business in that State, whether from interstate or local
traffic, which was a rate of taxation unheard of, grossly unequal and substantially destructive. It was further alleged,
among other things, that on July 1, 1867, the company formally accepted the provisions of the act of July 24, 1866, now
sections 5263 to 5269 of the Revised Statutes, and by virtue
thereof the company was an agent of the government of the
United States in the transmission of intelligence by electricity,
and that the enforcement of the scheme of taxation provided
in the alleged law would substantially destroy the value of the
company's property in Arkansas and prevent it from performing its obligations under said act. Schedules of the real estate
of the Western Union Telegraph Company, of the miles of
wire and poles of all the lines owned by the company within
the State of Arkansas, and the location thereof in each county;
and of the gross receipts for 1892, were also made part of the
bill. The bill charged that the act in question was unconstitutional and void for reasons given at length, but averred that
VOL- OL-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the board of railroad commissioners of thd State, composed
of the governor, secretary, and auditor, had nevertheless assessed complainant's property for taxes within the State,
under said act, at the sum of $195 per mile of its lines of telegraph therein, making the whole amount of property thus
assessed $396,387, and a copy of the assessment was made a
part of the bill, showing the number of miles, the value per
mile, and the total value in each county.; also the mileage in
cities and towns, and the total value thereof.
And it was also alleged that the secretary of State had
certified said several assessments to the several county
assessors, who had listed the same as property owned by
complainant subject to taxation for 1893 in those counties and
had returned said assessments to the county clerks thereof,
whose duty it was to make out tax books for their respective
counties, enter the assessments, levy the taxes thereon at the
rate fixed for state, county, and all other purposes, extend the
same on the tax books, and deliver them to the tax collectors
with warrants requiring the collection of said taxes.
The prayer of the bill was that the railroad commissioners
should be required to show the grounds of their assessment;
that the act of April 8, 1893, be decreed to be unconstitutional
and void; that the act of the board in assessing complainant's
property for taxation be cancelled; and that defendants be
enjoined from proceeding under said act or pursuant to said
assessment, to execute the same, and the county clerks specifically restrained from discharging thie du.. +' -eby imposed.
On January 29, 1894, complainant filed an amended bill
averring that since the filing of the orig, al bill the county
clerks had, pursuant to the assessment of complainant's
property by the railroad commissioners, made out the tax
books for their several counties, entered the said several assessments, levied the taxes thereon at the rate fixed for state,
county, and all other purposes, spread the same upon the tax
books and delivered the books to the several tax collectors
of the several counties, together with a warrant authorizing
and requiring the collection of the same. The amended bill
then charged that forty-seven persons, naming them, were the

FISHBACK v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH 00.

99

Opinion of the Court.

tax collectors for the counties severally named, and citizens
of Arkansas, prayed that they be made parties defendant and
be enjoined from proceeding to collect the taxes.
Defendants demurred to the bill and amended bill, and on
February 20, 1894, the Circuit Court overruled the demurrer,
whereupon complainant dismissed the bill as to the several
county clerks, and the defendants, electing to abide by their
demurrer, it was decreed "that the defendants and each and
every of them, their agents and deputies, be perpetually restrained and enjoined from taking any steps or proceeding in
any manner to enforce the collection of -taxes assessed against
the property of the Western Union Telegraph Company
under the assessment made by defendants William M. Fishback, Henry B. Armistead, and Charles B. Mills, in their
capacity as a board of railroad commissioners for the said
State of Arkansas, under the provisions of an act of the
general assembly entitled 'A n act to assess and collect taxes
from certain corporations,' approved April 8, 1893; and for
costs." An appeal to this court was duly prayed and allowed,
citation waived, cost bond approved and filed, together with an
assignment of errors.
Mr. A. H. Garland for appellants. .Mr. James P. Olarke
and Mr. R. C. Garland were on his brief.
Mr. Rush Taggart for appellee.
on his brief.

Mr. John F. Dillon was

Mr. Willard Brown, Mr. Clurles W. Wells and Mr. U. M.
Rose filed a brief for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

It is argued that under the averments of the bill the Circuit
Court bad jurisdiction on two grounds: 1. Diverse citizenship;
2. In that the case made by the bill was one arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States. Even if this

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

were so, the Circuit Court could not take cognizance of
the suit unless the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of
costs and interest, the sum of $2000. Act of March 3, 1887,
c. 373, ยง1, 24 Stat. 552; act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25
Stat. 433; United States v. Sayward, 160 U. S. 493, 498.
In Walter v. Notheastern Railroad Oo., 147 U. S. 370,
we held that "a Circuit Court of the United States has no
jurisdiction over a bill in equity to enjoin the collection of
taxes from a railroad company, when distinct assessments in
separate counties, no one of which amounts to two thousand
dollars, and for which; in case of payment under protest, separate suits must be brought to recover back the amounts paid,
are joined together in the bill, making an aggregate of over
two thousand dollars."
The rule is without exception that the facts upon which the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States rests must
appear in the record of all suits prosecuted before them. Ex'
parte Smith, 94 U. S. 455; XJetca f v. Vatertown, 128 U. S.
586. The general averment in this bill that "the amount or
value in controversy in this suit exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs," was a mere conclusion, and it was nowhere shown that the amount of any one
of these distinct county assessments, the collection of which
was entrusted to these tax collectors, exceeded that sum, while,
on the contrary, the total valuation of the property of the
telegraph company assessed as belonging to or operated by it
in any one county was such as to preclude the idea that the
amount of the assessment in such county would approach two'
thousand dollars. If the rate of taxation in Arkansas did not.
exceed two per cent as indicated in the return of the telegraph
company to the railroad commissioners, the highest amount of
taxes in any one county would fall below $400.
Although if these county assessments were aggregated they
would considerably exceed two thousand dollars, yet the several county clerks or tax collectors cannot be joined in a single
suit in a Federal court and the jurisdiction sustained on the
ground that the total amount involved exceeds the jurisdictional limitation, as already ruled in Walter's case, nor do we-

