OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

the judgment of 1866, with interest added thereon to date,
and the judgment of 1866 was a similar judgment on the
original judgment of June 17, 1861.
Viewed as a new judgment rendered as in an,. action of
debt, it had no binding force in Louisiana, as Henry had not
been served with process or voluntarily appeared. And considered as in continuation of the prior action and a revival of
the original judgment for purposes of execution, on two returns of nihil, it operated merely to keep in force the local
lien, and could not be availed of as removing the statutory
bar of the lexfori, for the same reason. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Pennoyer v. Tef, 95 U. S. 714; Grover
& Baker Sewing .Machine Co. v. Radcliffe, 137 U. S. 287;
Steel v. Smith, 7 Watts & Searg. 447; Evans v. Reed, 2 Mich.
N. P. 212; l-epler v. .Davis, 32 Nebraska, 556.
The Circuit Court was right, and its judgment is

Airmed.

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOB

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 168.

Bubmitted December 16,1895.-

Decided March 80, 1896.

In 1856, the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company was incorporated
by the legislature of the Territory of Minnesota, with authority to construct a railroad on an indicated route, and to connect its road by
branches with any other road in the Territory, or to become part owner
or lessee of any railroad in said Territory; and also "to connect with any
railroad running in the same direction with this road, and where there
may be any portion of another road which may be used by this company."
By a subsequent act it was, in 1865, authorized "to connect with or adopt
as its own, any other railroad running in the same general direction with
either of its main lines or any branch roads* and which said corporation
is authorized to construct;" "to consolidate the whole or any portion
of its capital stock with the capital stock or any portion thereof of any
other road having the same general direction or location, or to become

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

617

Syllabus.
merged therein by way of substitution;" to consolidate any portion of
its road and property with the franchise of any other railroad company
or any portion thereof; and to consolidate the whole or any portion of
its main line or branches with the rights, powers, franchises, grants and
effects of any other railroad. These several rights, privileges and franchises were duly accepted by the railway company, and its road was constructed and put in operation. In 1874 the State of Minnesota enacted
that "no railroad corporation or the lessees, purchasers or managers of
any railroad corporation shall consolidate the stock, property or franchises of such corporation with, or lease or purchase the works or franchises of, or in any way control any other railroad corporation owning
or having under its control a parallel or competing line; nor shall any
officer of such railroad corporation act as the officer of any other-railroad corporation owning or having the control of a parallel or competing
line; and the question whether railroads are parallel or competing lines
shall, when demanded by the party comtlainant, be decided by a jury as
in other civil issues;" and in 1881 its legislature enacted that "no railroad cbrporation shall consolidate with, lease or purchase, or in any way
become owner of, or control any other railroad corporation, or any stock,
franchise, rights of property thereof, which owns or controls a parallel
or competing line.". In 1889 the company changed its name to Great
Northern Railway Company and extended its road towards the Pacific.
The Northern Pacific Railroad being about to be reorganized, It was proposed that the Great Northern company should guarantee, for the benefit
of the holders of the bonds to be issued by the reorganized company, the
payment of the principal of, and interest upon such bonds, and as a consideration for such guaranty, and as a compensation for the risk to the
stockholders, the reorganized company should transfer to the shareholders of the Northern company, or to a trustee for their use, one half the
capital stock of the reorganized company; and that the Northern Pacific
should join with the Great Northern in providing facilities for an interchange of cars and traffic between their respective lines, and should interchange traffic with the Northern company, and operate its trains to
that end upon reasonable, fair and lawful terms under joint tariffs or
otherwise, the. Northern company having the right to bill its traffic, passengers and freight from points on its own line to points on the Northern Pacific not reached by the Great Northern, with the further right to
make use of the terminal facilities of the Northern Pacific at points
where such facilities would be found to be convenient and economical,
jointly with that company. A stockholder of the Great Northern company filed this bill- against it, to restrain It from carrying out such agreement. Held, that the Great Northern company was subject to the provisions of the acts of 1874 and 1881, and that the proposed arrangement
was in violation of the provisions in those acts prohibiting railroad corporations froni consolidating with, leasing or purchasing, or in any other
way becoming the owner of, or controlling any other railroad.corporation,
or the stock, franchises or rights of property thereof, havlng a parallel or

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

competing line, and was therefore beyond the corporate power of the company to make.
Where, by a railway charter, a general power is given to consolidate with,
purchase, lease or acquire the stock of other roads, which has remained
unexecuted, it is within the competency of the legislature to declare, by
subsequent acts, that this power shall not extend to the purchase, lease
or consolidation with parallel or competing lines.
Where a charter authorizes a company in sweeping terms to do certain
things which are unnecessary to the main object of the grant, and not
directly and immediately within the contemplation of the parties thereto,
the power so conferred, so long as it is unexecuted, is within the control
of the legislature and may be treated as a license, and may be revoked, if
a possible exercise of such power is found to conflict with, the interests
of the public.
The court epitomizes, in its opinion, several previous cases for the purpose
of showing the general trend of opinion in this court upon the subject
of corporate charters and vested rights.

Tis was a bill in equity filed by Pearsall, a stockholder in
the Great Northern Railway, against the company, which is
a corporation created and existing under the laws of the Territory and State of Minnesota, and a citizen of that State,
to enjoin it from entering into and carrying out a certain
agreement between that company and the holders of bonds
secured by the second and third general mortgages, and the
consolidated mortgage of the Northern Pacific Railroad
Cimpany, under which, upon a sale and foreclosure of the
mortgages given to secure such bonds, the holders were to
purchase or cause to be purchased the property and franchises of the Northern 'Pacific Railroad Company.
Plaintiff set up that he was the holder of five hundred
shares of $100- each of the preferred paid up stock of the
defendant corporation; that such stock is of the value of
more than $125 per share, but that the proposed arrangement, if consummated, would decrease the value of his stock
and damage him to an amount exceeding $5000. The suit
was brought for the benefit of the plaintiff and all stockholders similarly situated. The facts as they appear in the
bill and answer, upon which the case was heard, are substantially as follows:
The defendant, the Great Northern Railway, is a corpora-

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY. " 649
Statement of the Case.

tion organized and existing under the act of the legislature
of the Territory of Minnesota of March 1, 1856, c. 160, Gen.
Laws 1856, 291, to incorporate the Minneapolis and St. Cloud
Railroad Company, and a number of amendatory acts not
necessary to be noticed in detail. By the original act, the
Territory granted to the railroad company (§ 1) the right
tQ be a corporation, the right to acquire by purchase, gift,
grant, devise or otherwise, and to hold and to convey all
such property, real and personal, which should be necessary
or convenient to darry into effect the objects and purposes
of the corporation; the right (§ 2) to construct and operate.
a railroad from Minneapolis to St. Cloud, (about 75 miles,)
and also to a point at or near the mouth of the St. Louis
River, (about 180 miles,) with the further power (§ 6) to
connect its road by branches with any other road in the Territory, or to become part owner or lessee of any railroad in
said Territory, and also (§ 12) "to connect with any railroad running in the same direction with this road, and where
there may be any portion of another road which may be used
by this company."
By § 17 "this act is hereby declared to be a public act,
and may be amended by, any subsequent Legislative Assembly, in any manner not destroying or impairing the vested
rights of said corporation."
By the amendatory act passed by the legislature of the
State of February 28, 1865, c. 4, Special Laws of 1865, page
27, such corporation (§ 3, amendatory of original § 12) was
authorized "to connect with or adopt as its own . . . any
other railroad running in the same general direction with
either of its main lines or any branch roads, and which said
corporation is authorized to construct;" (§ 8) "to consolidate the whole or any portion of its capital stock with
the capital stock or any portion thereof of any other road
. . . having the same general direction or location, or to
become merged therein by way of substitution;" the further
right (§ 9) to consolidate any portion of its road and property with the franchise of any other railroad company or any
portion thereof, and (§ 12) to consolidate the whole or any

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

portion of its main line or branches with the rights, powers,
franchises, grants and effects of any other railroad.
It ib alleged in the bill and admitted by the answer that
these several acts, with their rights, privileges and franchises,
were duly accepted, and that the same have ever since remained in full force and effect; that prior to 1880, the company constructed and put into operation that portion of its
line which extended from St. Cloud eastwardly to the town
of Hinckley, in the State of Minnesota, and that in 1889 it
changed its name to the Great Northern Railway Company,
which name it has ever since borne and now bears; that by
various purchases, consolidations and leases, it now operates
and controls all the lines of the Great Northern Railway
Company extending from St. Paul and Duluth in the State
of Minnesota, and from Superior in the State of Wisconsin,
across the -States of Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana and
Idaho, to the towns of Everett and Seattle in the State of
Washington, with many branch and connecting lines, none
of which, however, reach Tacoma in the State of Washington,
Portland in the State of Oregon, or Winnipeg in the Dominion of Canada. All of these different lines comprise an aggregate mileage of nearly forty-five hundred miles, and are
operated as a combined railway system, under the name of
the Great Northern Railway.
The INorthern Pacific Railroad Company is a corporation
organized and existing under certain acts and resolutions of
Congress, and owns some, and through its receivers, controls
and operates all the lines of the Northern Pacific Railroad
system, extending from St. Paul in Minnesota, and from Ashland in Wisconsin to Tacoma in the State of Washington,
and Portland in the State of Oregon, with many branches
and connecting lines, one of which extends'to Winnipeg in
Canada; that the aggregate mileage of the Northern Pacific
system is nearly forty-five hundred miles, and some of the
lines of each of these systems are parallel to and some competing with the lines of the other system; that the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company is insolvent, its road in the hands
of receivers appointed by the court at the instance of the

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

651

Statement of the Case.

bondholders under the second, third and consolidated mortgages. The trustee for these bondholders has commenced
suits to foreclose these mortgages, and the receivers are in
possession under appointment in these foreclosure suits.
The defendant and the holders of a majority, of the outstanding bonds of these mortgages of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company have entered into an arrangement or
agreement by which the property shall be sold to a committee of the bondholders, who are to organize a new corporation, subject to the prior mortgages, which shall issue
its bonds to the aggregate amount of $100,000,000, or more,
payment of which is to be guaranteed by the Great Northern, and capital stock to the further amount of one hundred
millions, one half of which is to be transferred to the shareholders of the Great Northern, and shall enter into a traffic
contract with it, whereby in substance the two companies
shall thereafter exchange traffic at all intersecting and connecting points, and divide the common earnings from such
exchanged traffic on the basis of miles hauled on the systeufs
respectively.
This arrangement is fully set forth in the
answer, a copy of which in that particular is printed in the

margin.'
1 (1.) The holders of the said several classes of bonds shall obtain a decree of foreclosure in said actions and for the sale of the railroad properties and franchises of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, including its
franchises to be a corporation, subject to the said divisional and general
first mortgages mentioned in paragraph ten of the bill, and shall cause the
same to bid in and be purchased by a committee of bondholders or their
agents for the bbnefit of all the holders of said outstanding bonds secured
by the mortgages so foreclosed, and shall cause a reorganization of the said
railway franchises and property as a new corporation, either under the said
acts and joint resolutions of Congress relating to the )Northern Pacific Railroad Company or under some other proper and sufficient legislation of the
United States, or of some one or more States.
(2.) Upon such foreclosure sale and reorganization the reorganized company may issue its bonds to an amount in the aggregate of $100,000,000 or
over and its full paid capital stock of lOO,000,000, this defendant to guarantee, for the benefit of the holders of such bonds, the payment of the principal thereof, together with interest thereon to an amount in the aggregate
of such Interest, guarantee not to exceed $6,200,000 per year, which guar-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Plaintiff claims that this agreement is unlawful'and in violation of the act of March 9, 1874, General Laws of Minnesota
for 1874, c. 29, which provides that "no railroad corporation
or the lessees, purchasers or managers of any railroad corporation shall consolidate the stock, property or franchises of such
corporation with, or lease or purchase the works or franchises
of, or in any way control any other railroad corporations owning or having under its control a parallel or competing line;
nor shall any officer of such railroad corporation act as the
officer of any other railroad corporation owning or having the
control of a parallel or competing line; and the question
whether railroads are parallel or competing lines shall, when
demanded by the party complainant, be decided by a jury as
in other civil issues;" and also because it is a violation of § 3,
antee shall, if required by said reorganization company, be written and executed upon the back of each of said bonds.
(3.) Among other good and valuable considerations for such guarantee,
and as a compensation for the risk to the stockholders of the defendant
company, which may result by reason of said guarantee in the way of a
possible diversion of a portion of the earnings of the defendant to make
good its guarantee, the said reorganized company shall transfer, or cause
or procure to be transferred by its stockholders, to the shareholders of
the defendant company, or to some person or corporation as trustee for
their use, one half part of the capital stock of said reorganized company.
(4.) The Northern Pacific Company shall join with the defendant in providing reasonable and adequate facilities for an interchange of cars and
traffic between their respective lines, and shall interchange traffic with
defendant and operate its trains to that end upon reasonable, fair and lawful terms under joint tariffs or otherwise.
(5.) The defendant shall have the right to bill and route its traffic, passengers and freight from points on its line by way of such connections as
now exist or may hereafter be constructed between said line and the Northern Pacific Company to Winnipeg, Tacoma, 'ortland and all points in the
different States through which the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad extends and not reached by the line of this defendant.
(6,) The defendant shall have the right to make use of the depot and
terminal facilities of the Northern Pacific company at Spokane Falls and
other points, where such use shall be found to be convenient and economical, jointly with that company, and upon reasonable, fair and lawful terms,
which shall insure to the defendant a large saving on the cost and expense
which it must otherwise necessarily incur in constructing and operating
depots and terminals of its own.

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

653

Argument for Appellee.

of the act of March 3, 1881, c. 94, of the laws of Minnesota for
1881, Gen. Laws, 109, which enacts that "no railroad corporation shall consolidate with, lease or purchase, or in any way become owner of, or control any other railroad corporation, or
any stock, franchise, or rights of property thereof, which owns
or controls a parallel or competing line."
Defendant answered that it had ample power to make and
perform its agreement under its charter; that the true construction of the provisions of the acts of 1874. and 1881, just
cited, is that they do not amend or affect its charter, and that
if the opposite construction be adopted, they are void in so,
far as they prohibit or affect its rights to make and perform
this agreement, because they are in violation of the contract
clause of the Constitution.
Upon the other hand, plaintiff insisted that the right to so
amend the charter of the defendant, as to prohibit the performance of this contract, was reserved to the State by section 17 of the act of 1856, providing that the act might be
amended by any subsequent legislation, in any manner not
destroying or impairing the vested rights of said corporation.
The case was first submitted to the court upon motion for
injunction, which was denied, and again upon a final hearing
upon bill and answer; and the court, for the reasons stated in
the opinion upon the motion for injunction, entered a decree
dismissing the bill. Whereupon the plaintiff appealed to this
court.
Mr. He ry J. Horn for appellant.
Mr. H. W. Childs, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, for that State.
3Mr... D. Grover, Mr. Cushman fE. Davis, 3.
logg, and Mr. 0. A. Severance for appellee.

F. B. Zel-

I. The agreement, so far as it relates to an interchange of
traffic, to a joint use of tracks and terminals and to through
billing and routeing of traffic from points on the line of appellee to points on the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellee.

pany, not reached by its line, is valid. It is authorized by express provisions of the acts constituting appellee's charter and
is in accord with public policy.
Section 3 of the Interstate Comtnerce Act provides: "Every common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act,
shall, according to their respective powers, afford all reasonable, proper and adequate facilities for an interchange of
traffic between their respective lines."
Chap. 108, Laws of 1893, State of Minnesota, provides:
"All railway companies doing business in this State shall,
upon the demand of any person or persons, establish reasonable joint through rates for the transportation of freight
between points on their respective lines within the State.
Car load lots shall be transferred without unloading in the
cars in which such shipments are made, unless such loading
shall be done without charge therefor to the shipper or receiver." See Stewart v. Erie & Western TransportationCo.,
17 Minnesota, 372; Oregon Short Line v. .Northern Paoflo
Railroad, 61 Fed. Rep. 158; Oregon Short Line v. HSorthern
Pacific Railroad,51 Fed. Rep. 465.
The proposed guaranty is not an accommodation promise,
or a loan of credit, but is an agreement to meet a legal obligation upon conditions, or to pay a debt, or to satisfy a liability.
The rule is well established that such a guaranty is valid if
based upon a valuable consideration, and the guarantor has
the right to invest in it. Zabriskie v. Cleveland, Columbus &
Cincinnati Railroad, 23 How. 381; Green -Bay & 3finnesota Railroad v. Union Steamboat Co., 107 U. S. 98; Pittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. feokuk & Hamilton Bridge
Co., 131 U. S.371; Fort Worth City Co. v. Smith Bridge Co.,
151 U. S. 291; l-arrisonv. Union Pacific Railroad,13 Fed.
Rep. 522; Tod v. -Kentucky Union Land Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 47;
Leavenworth v. Chicago co. Railway, 134: U. S. 688; Kent v.
Quicksilver .Mining Co., 78 N. Y. 159; Rodgers lforks v.
Southern Railroad Association, 34 Fed. Rep. 278; Railroad
Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall. 392; Low v. Central Pacific Rail-road,52 California, 58.
II. The agreement, so far as it relates to a transfer of one

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY. 655
Argument for Appellee.

half the full paid stock of the new or reorganized company,
by the stockholders of such company, to the stockholders of
appellee, is not forbidden by any law of the State. Appellee
does not acquire the legal title to the stock, and by such
transfer of stock it does not acquire the' ownership or control, of the new or reorganized company. See Piullman'8
Palace Car Co. v. .MtisWUriPacif
.j Railway, 115 U. S. 587,
where a construction was given to the word "control" such
as we contend for.
III. If the legal effect of the agreement, taken as an
entirety, is to give to appellee the control of the new or
reorganized company, it is authorized by the acts constituting
its charter to execute the agreement and acquire such control.
(1) It has such authority under the provisions of the act
of March 1, 1856, giving it power to become part owner of
a railroad, or to adopt a railroad as its own, and to acquire
the right to the sole or joint use of a railroad.
(2) It has such authority under the provisions of the act
of February 28, 1865, giving it the right to consolidate its
stock and property with the stock and property of another
railroad company, either within or without the State.
IV. The appellee having power under its charter and under
the facts disclosed in the record, to execute the agreement,
such right was not taken away by the state laws of 1874
and of 1881.
V. An accepted act of incorporation of a private corporation is a contract between the State and the corporation.
Whdre the charter consists of a series of acts, each act which
confers new and valuable powers and franchises is a contract
between the State and the corporation. Any law of the State,
which impairs or destroys any valuable franchise granted by
such act, violates section ten, article one, of the Constitution
of the United States, which provides that no State shall pass
any law impairing the obligations of a contract, and is, therefore, inoperative, unless a right to modify, impair, or destroy
such franchise is expressly reserved. A right to become
owner of the railroad of another company, or to adopt it, or
to become the owner of the stock of another company; or to

OCTOBER -TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellee.

consolidate with, or acquire the control of such company.
is a valuable franchise and property right, which becomes
vested immediately upon the acceptance of the acts by which
the right is granted. See Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheat.
518; Branch v. Jesup, 106 U. S. 468; Piqua Bank v. knoop,
16 How. 369; -MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 312; Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264;
The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51; Boston & Lowell Railroad v. Salem & Lowell Railroad,2 Gray, 1.
VI. A charter contract not containing a reservation on the
part of the State of a right to alter or amend cannot be impaired by subsequent legislation. A right may be reserved
by the State to alter, amend or repeal a charter contract. In
such case vested rights may be impaired or annulled.' Not
vested rights in property, or contract acquired by user of
corporate powers and franchises, but rights vested in the
corporation by the terms of the charter contract, being part
of the contract of incorporation. The distinction between
the rights of property, acquired under an exercise of corporate powers and franchises, and which are protected under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, and rights given by contract, and which are protected under article one of section ten of the Constitution, is
apparent. See Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454; Eamilton
Gas Light Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258; Greenwood v.
Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Bridge Co. v. United States, 105
U. S.470.
A charter contract may contain a limited reservation of a
right to alter or impair powers, rights, and franchises granted
by it. In such case it is the contract that may be altered or
amended, and vested rights growing out of an acceptance of
the contract may be impaired. In this case we have a reservation of a right to amend, "in any manner not destroying the
vested rights of the corporation." The vested rights of the
corporation were the rights, privileges and franchises which
it acquired on its acceptance of the acts constituting its charter. By such acceptance the corporation acquired a right to
hold and convey property, real or personal, necessary to carry

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

657

Argument for Appellee.

into effect the object and purpose of the corporation;
the right to construct railroads; main-and branch lines;
the right to become part owner of, or to adopt as its own, the
railroad of another company; . . . the right to acquire
the sole or joint use of the railroad of another company ; ...
the right to consolidate its stock, its railroad, property, effects
and franchises with the stock, property, effects and franchises
of any other railroad company, either within or without the
State.
If the proposed arrangement had been made prior to the
passage of the act of 1874, it is not contended that under the
right reservdd to amend, the State could have lawfully annulled
such contract of consolidation, or have deprived appellee of
any right acquired under it. In such case it is conceded the
right would have become vested; and thus could not have been
impaired. It is claimed that only rights of property and other
derivative rights, which have been acquired by user, under
the acts constituting the charter, are vested rights within the
meaning of the words as used in section 17 of the act of 1856;
but this is not so. It is not the user that gives the right or
franchise. It is the franchise which authorizes the user. The
distinction between rights of property, which are protected as
vested rights, because they are property rights, and a contract
right, and obligation, in the form of powers, privileges and
franchises granted by an act of incorporation, seems very apparent.
A reservation of a right to amend without words of limitation, gives a right to amend the charter, in any manner the
State may deem expedient. It is the contract that in such
case is subject to amendment. Here we have words of.limitation, "may amend in any manner not impairing or destroying
the vested rights of the corporation." Are not the negative
words to stand as the controlling language?
In construing these words we should look at the condition
of the country when the acts were passed. There was no
railroad within 300 miles of the legislature that passed the
act of 1856, and there was no hope of settlement until a railroad should reach there. Under such circumstances, the legvoL. CLXi-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellee.

islature was willing to grant large and valuable franchises
and privileges, to induce the investment of capital for the
construction of railroads. It offered to appellee all the
rights, franchises and privileges contained in the act of
March 1, 1856. It intended that all such rights should be
secure against amendment in such a way as to impair or
destroy them by subsequent legislation.
Many questions that have since been solved were, at that
time, not thought of; limitations that have since been imposed upon corporations were not considered. Nine years
passed, but no railroad had been built. Then the State
amended the original charter contract, and offered the amendment to the corporation, thus giving to it new and very valuable privileges and franchises. The court had, prior to that
time, decided that every valuable privilege given by a charter,
and which induced to its acceptance, was a contract which
could not be changed by the legislature unless there was a
reserved power to do so. The conclusion, as the court below
held, "is irresistible that they meant that they would never
so amend that charter as to impair or destroy any franchise
or rights of the corporation which the ,courts had declared
vested as soon as the corporate act was accepted."
The words of limitation are controlling. If necessary to
preserve the limitation, the word "amend" must be disregarded. If not controlling they are without meaning.
But the word "amend" may be preserved and given force,
although the right to amend is limited, as expressed in the
The legislature might have,
section under consideration.
made the grant without reserving any right. It could have
reserved the full right of amendment or repeal. It adopted
a third course. It reserved a right to amend, but not so as
to take away or impair any right given by contract to be
amended. What is it that the legislature may amend? It
is the contract between the State and the corporation. How
may it amend this contract? The answer is, in any and all
respects not in any way destroying or impairing any right
given by the terms of the contract to the corporation. In
a charter where there is no reservation of right to amend, no

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

659

Opinion of the Court.

amendment can be made in any matter affecting the nature of
the enterprise or making an increase of liability or duty without the consent of all the stockholders. The word "amend"
then has force as a part of the contract under which the State
may offer additional privileges, in its interests, that can be accepted by the corporation through the vote of a mere majority
of its stockholders, and that cannot be rejected by the dissent
of a single share. It has been held that where there is no reserved right, such changes cannot be made without the consent of every stockholder.
VII. The right of consolidation of stock and property is
clearly granted to appellee by the act of February 28, 1865.
This right is not limited to the line from Minneapolis via St.
Cloud to Lake Superior, but extends to all branch lines which
appellee is authorized to construct. This act and the act of
March 1, 1856, are not to be treated as one act. It grants new
franchises and powers; and, upon its acceptance, became a new
and independent contract as respects all such new franchises.
and powers.
MR. JusTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the question whether the right given
'by its charter to the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company to connect with any railroad running in the same general
direction, and, by a subsequent amendatory act, to consolidate
its capital stock, or its property, road or franchise with those
of any other railroad, could be taken away by a subsequent
act inhibiting the consolidation, lease or purchase by any railroad of the stock, property or franchise of any parallel or competing line. A different question would have been presented
if any such contract had bebn made and carried into effect,
before the act of 1874 was passed, since it might be claimed
that the rights of the parties had become vested, within the
meaning of section 17 of the original charter of the Minnesota
and St. Cloud Railroad, and as such could not be destroyed or
impaired by subsequent legislation, without infringing upon

OCTOBER TERM, -1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that provision of the Constitution inhibiting state legislation
impairing the obligation of contracts. The case then involves
indirectly the meaning of the words "vested rights," when
used in the charter of railroads and other similar corporations.
1. Thp whole doctrine of vested rights as applied to the
charters of corporations is based upon the Dartmouth College
case, 4 Wheat. 518, in which the broad proposition was laid
down that such charters were contracts within the meaning of
the Constitution, and hence that an act of the state legislature'
altering a charter in any material respect was unconstitutional
and void. The doctrine of this case has been subjected to
more or less criticism by the courts and the profession, but has
been reaffirmed and applied so often as to have become firmly
established as a canon of American jurisprudence. The precise point decided was this: By the original charter from the
Crown, granted in tt1Q year 1769, twelve persons,' therein
named, were incorporatbd by the name of "The Trustees of
Dartmouth College," and there was granted to them and their
successors the usual corporate privileges and powers, among
which was authority to govern the college, and fill all vacancies which might be created in their own body. By an act of
the legislature of New Hampshire passed in 1816, the charter
was amended, the number of trustees increased to twenty-one,
the appointment of the additional members vested in the executive of the State, and a board of overseers, consisting of
twenty-five persons, created, with power to inspect and control
the most important acts of the trustees. The president of the
senate, the speaker of the house of representatives of New
Hampshire, and the governor and the lieutenant governor of
Vermont, for the time being, were to be members ex officio;
and the board was to be completed by the governor and council of Nev Hampshire, who were also empowered to fill all
vacancies which might occur. A majority of the trustees of
the college refused to accept this amended charter, and brought
suit for the corporate property, which was in possession of a
person holding by authority of the acts. of the legislature.
The opinion contained an exhaustive discussion of the whole

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

661

Opinion of the Court.

subject of corporate rights and their impairment by state legislation, and probably contributed as much as any he ever
delivered to the great reputation of Chief Justice Marshall.
The proposed legislation of the State was fundamental in its
character. On the part of the Crown it was expressly stipulated that the corporation thus constituted should continue
forever; and that the number of trustees should consist of
twelve and no more. By the act of the legislature the trustees
were increased to twenty-one, the appointment of the additional number given to the executive of the State, ahd a board
of overseers, twenty-one out of twenty-five of whom were also
appointed by the executive of the State, was created and invested with power to inspect and control the most important
acts of the trustees. Thus, said Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
"the whole power of governing the college is transferred from
trustees, appointed according to the will of the founder, expressed in the charter, to the executive of New Hampshire."
If this legislation was valid, Dartmouth College, as it was
originally incorporated, ceased to exist, and a new institution
of learning was created, which was put completely at the
mercy of the state legislature. It was not the case of an
amendment in an unimportant particular-the taking away
.of a non-essential feature of the charter, but a radical and
destructive change of the governing body -a
transfer of its
power to the executive of the State, and virtually a reincorporation upon a wholly different basis.
Subsequent cases have settled the law that, wherever property rights have been acquired by virtue of a corporate charter,
such rights, so far as they are necessary to the full and complete enjoyment of the main object of the grant, are contracts,
and beyond the reach of destructive legislation. Even before
the Dartmouth College case was decided, it was held by this
court that grants of land made by the Crown., to colonial
churches were irrevocable, and that property purchased by,
or devised to them, prior to the adoption of the Constitution,
could not be diverted to other purposes by the States which
succeeded to the sovereign power of the colonies. Terrett v.
Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Town of Pawlet v. Clark, 9 0ranch,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

292; Society for P opagat" of the Gov~el v. New Haven, 8
Wheat. 464.
Indeed, the sanctity of charters vesting in grantees the title
to lands or other property. has been vindicated in a large number of cases. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Fletcher v. Peek,
6 Oranch, 87, 137; Afoore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; United
States v. Schurz, 102 U. S.378 ; Noble v. Union River Logging
Railroad, 141 U. S. 165.
This court has had, perhaps, more frequent occasion to
assert the inviolability of corporate charters in cases respecting the power of taxation than in any other, and in a long
series of decisions has held that a clause imposing certain
taxes in lieu of all other taxes, or of all taxes to which the
company or stockholders therein would be subject, is impaired
by legislation raising the rate of taxation, or imposing taxes
other than those specified in the charter. Thus in State 'Bank
of Ohio v. -Knoop, 16 How. 369, it was held that, where, by a
general banking law, it was provided that a certain percentage
of dividends should be set off for the use of the State, and
should be in lieu of all taxes to which the company or stockholders therein would otherwise be subjected, this was a
contract fixing permanently the amount of taxation, and that
legislation could not thereafter increase it. In this connection
it was said by Mr. Justice McLean: "Every valuable privilege
given by the charter, and which conduced o an acceptance of
it and an organization under it, is a contract which cannot be
changed by the legislature where the power to do so is not
reserved in the charter. The rate of discount, the' duration of
the charter, the-specific tax agreed to be paid, and other provisions essentially connected with the franchise, and necessary
to the business of the bank, cannot, without its consent, become a subject for legislative action." To the same effect are
New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Gordon v. Appeal Ta=
Oourt, 3 HFow. 133 ; -Dodgev. Woolsey, 18 How. 331 ; Jeferson
Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; McGee v. MAfathis, 4
Wall. 143; Home of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430;
Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264; Humphrey v.
Pegues, 16 Wall. 244; Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 6"79;

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

663

Opinion of the Court,

New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104; Asylum v. New Orleans,
105 U. S. 362. If, however, the charter contain a reservation
of an unlimited power to alter, amend or repeal, the legislature may take away an immunity from taxation. Tomlinson
v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454.
Within the same principle are grants of an exclusive right
to supply gas or water to a municipality, or to occupy its
streets for railway purposes. New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; New Orleans Water Wokg v.
Rivers, 115 U. S. -674; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas
6'o., 115 U. S. 683; St. Tammany Water Works v. New Orleans
Water Works, 120 U. S. 64; Boston,& Lowell Railroad v.
Salem & Lowell Railroad,2 Gray, 1.
So, if a company be chartered with power to construct
and maintain a turnpike, erect toll-gates and collect tolls, such
franchise is protected by the Constitution. Turnpike Co. v.
Illinois, 96 U. S. 63; -lonongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312.
If it be provided in the charter of a bank that the bills and.
notes of the institution shall be received in payment of taxes
or of debts due to the State, such undertaking on the part of
the State constitutes a contract between the State and holders
of the notes, Which the State is.not at liberty th break, although
notes issued after the repeal of the act are not within the contract, and may be refused. Woodruf v. Trapnall, 10 How.
190; Paup v. Drew, 10 How. 218; Fur uan v. Nichol, 8
Wall. 44; Eeith v. Clark, 97 U. S. 454; Antoni v. Greenhow,
107 U. S. 769; Poindeaiterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270. And
in Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301, where a bank was
chartered with the usual powers to receive money on deposit,
discount bills of exchange and notes, and to make loans, and
in the course of its business the bank discounted and held
promissory notes, and the legislature then passed a law declaring that it should not be lawful for any bank to transfer, by
indorsement or otherwise, any note, bill receivable or other
evidence of debt, it was held that the statute conflicted with
the Constitution and was void. It was said in this case that
" a power to dispose of its notes, as well as other property,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

may well be regarded as an incident to. its business as a bank
to discount notes, which are required to be in their terms
assignable, as well as an incident to its right of holding them
and other property, when no express limitation is imposed
upon the power to transfer them."
In each of the above cases, however, the title to property
had either become vested in the grantee by operation of law,
or the exercise of the power granted was so far necessary to
the full enjoyment of the main object of the charter that persons subscribing to the stock might be presumed to take into
consideration, and be influenced in their subscriptions, by the
fact that the corporation was endowed with those privileges
during the continuance of the charter.
2. Such limitations, however, upon the power of the legislature must be construed in subservience to the general rule
that grants by the State are to be construed strictly against
the grantees, and that nothing will be presumed to pass except
it be expressed in clear and unambiguous language. As was
said by -Mr.Justice Swayne in Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park,
97 U. S.659, 666: "The rule of construction in this class of
cases is that it shall be most strongly against the corporation.
Every reasonable doubt is to be resolved adversely. INothing
is to be taken as conceded but what is given in unmistakable
terms, or by an implication equally clear. The affirmative
must be shown. Silence is negation, and doubt is fatal to the
claim. This doctrine is vital to the public welfare. It is
axiomatic in the jurisprudence of this court."
Hence, an exclusive right to enjoy a certain franchise is
never presumed, and unless the charter contain words of
exclusion, it is no impairment of the grant to permit another
to do the same thing, although the value of the franchise to
the first grantee may be wholly destroyed. This principle
was laid down at an early day in the case of the Ckarles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, and has been steadily
adhered to ever since. Tur>pike Company v. The State, 3
:Wall. 210; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Ppt. 514; Pennylvania Railroad v. -Miller,132 U. S. 75. If however there
be an exclusive provision, as, for instance, in the charter of

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY. 665
Opinion of the Court.

a bridge company that it shall not be lawful for any person
to erect another bridge within a certain distance of the bridge
authorized, this constitutes an inviolable contract. The Binghampton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51. But even in such cases, if the
second charter be for a similar franchise, but to be exercised
in a substantially different manner, the exclusive right conferred by the first charter is held not to be violated; as, for
instance, if the first charter be for an ordinary bridge, and the
second for a railway viaduct, impossible for man or beast to
cross, except in railway cars. Bridge Propietorsv. JHoboken
Co., 1 Wall. 116. So, if the first franchise be for the sole
privilege of supplying a city with water from a designated
source, it is not impaired by a grant to another party of the
privilege to supply it with water from a different source.
Stein v. Bienville Water Suppy Co., 141 U. S. 67.
Upon a similar principle it was held in Tucker v. Ferguson,
22 Wall. 527, that a tax upon lands owned by a railway company and not used, nor necessary, in working the road and in
the exercise of its franchise, was not unlawful, though the
charter had provided for a certain tax upon the railroad company, and had enacted that such tax should be in lieu of all
other taxes to be imposed within the State. See also West
Wisconsin Railway v. Supervisors, 93 U. S. 595.
Nor does it follow, from the fact that the contract evidenced by the charter cannot be impaired, that the power of
the legislature over such charter is wholly taken away, since
statutes which operate only to regulate the manner in which
the franchises are to be exercised, and which do not interfere
substantially with the enjoyment of the main object of the
grant, are not open to the objection of impairing the contract.
A familiar instance of this class of legislation is -that enacted under what is known as the police power. In virtue
of this the State may prescribe regulations contributing to
the comfort, safety and health of passengers, the protection
of the public at highway crossings or elsewhere, the security
of owners of adjacent property, by requiring the track to
be fenced, and such appliances to be annexed to the en:gines as shall prevent the communication of fire to neigh-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

boring buildings. Cooley Prin. Const. Law, 321. This power,
as was said by Mr. Justice Mille in the fflaughter-hous
cases, 16 Wall. 36, 62, is and must be, from its very nature,
incapable of any very exact definition or limitation. "Upon
it depends the security of social order, the life and health of
the citizen, the comfort of existence in a thickly populated
community, the enjoyment. of private and social life, and the
beneficial use of property." The following cases show to
what extent and for what purposes this power may be
exercised: Slaughter-house cases, 16 Wall. 36; Fertilizing
Company v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Beer Com2any v.
Hassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.
501; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Charlotte, Columbia
&c. R ailroadv. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133; Eagle Insurance Co. v. Ohio, 153 U. S. 446. And
so important is this power and so necessary to the public
safety and health, that it cannot be bargained away by the
legislature, and hence it has been held that charters for purposes inconsistent with a due regard for the public health or
public morals may be abrogated in the interests of a more
enlightened public opinion. Stone v. JMississippi,101 U. S.
814; Phalen v. Tirginia, 8 H[ow. 163, 168.
-In obedience to the same principle it has always been held
that the legislature may repeal laws authorizing municipal
subscriptions to railways, though such laws were in existence
at the time the railway was chartered, and may be supposed
to have influenced the promoters and stockholders of the road
in undertaking its construction. And even if there has been
a public vote in favor of such subscription, such vote does not
itself form a contract with the railway company protected by
the Constitution, the court holding that until the subscription
is actually made the contract is unexecuted. Aspinwall v.
Daviess County, 22 How. 364; Wadsworth v. Supervisors, 102
U. S. 534; Norton v. Brownsville, 129 U. S. 479; Concord v.
Portsmouth Savings Bank, .92 U. S. 625; Falconer v. Buffalo
c Jamestown Railroad,69 N. Y. 491 ; Covington & Lexington
Railroadv. Kenton County Court, 12 B. Mon. 144; Wilson v.
Polk County, 112 Missouri, 126.

PEARSALL

.

GREAT NORTITERN RAILWAY.

667

Opinion 6f the Court.

The contract protected by this clause must also be founded
upon a good consideration. If it be a mere nude pact, a bare
promise to allow a certain thing to be done, it will be construed as a revocable license. Thus, in Christ Church v. Philade phia County, 2: How. 300, the legislature of Pennsylvania
enacted that the property of Christ Church Hospital, so long
as the same should continue to -belong to the same hospital,
should be and remain free from taxation. In 1851 they
enacted that all property then exempted from taxation, other
than that which was in the actual use and occupation of such
association, should thereafter be subject to taxation. It was
held that the original concession of the legislature exempting
the property from taxation was spontaneous, and no service
or duty or other remunerative consideration was imposed
upon the corporation, and hence that it was in the nature of
a privilege or license, which might be revoked at the pleasure
of the sovereign.
In Tt.rnpi1N Comrpany v. ilinois,96 U. S. 63, the original
charter of the company gave it the right, in consideration of
building a turnpike, to erect toll-gates and exact toll for twentyfive years from the date of the charter. In 1861, when the
term of charter had more than half expired, the State gave
the company a new and additional privilege of using a certain
bridge and dyke and of erecting a toll-gate thereon. The
only consideration required was that the company should keep
them in repair. No term was expressed for the enjoyment of
the privileges, and no conditions were imposed for resuming or
revoking it on the part of the State. It was held that it could
not be presumed to have been intended as a perpetual grant,
since the company itself had but a limited period of existence,
and that a law resuming possession of.the bridge and dyke by
subjecting them to the control and management of the city of'
East St. Louis was not a law impairing the obligation of the
contract.
In Philadelphia& Grays Perry Co.'s Appeal, 102 Penn. St.
123, it was also held that a supplement to a charter which
merely conferred upon the corporation a new right (as an ex:elusive right to use and occupy certain streets) or enlarged an

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

old one, without imposing any additional burden upon it, was
a mere license or promise by the State, and might be revoked
at pleasure. "It is without consideratioh to support it and
cannot bind a subsequent legislature."
We have epitomized these cases, not because they have any
decisive bearing upon the question at issue, but for the purpose of showing the general trend of opinion in this court
upon the subject of. corporate charters and. V sted rights.
3. Conceding that there are no authorities directly in point,
(and the diligence of counsel has failed to cite us to any,) let
us see how far these principles are applicable to the case under
consideration.
The Great Northern Railway was originally chartered in
1856, under the name of the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company, with authority to build 'a road from Minneapolis, in a northerly direction, to St. Cloud -on the Mississippi
River, a distance of about seventy-five miles, with an additional
line to a point at or near the mouth of the St. Louis River (now
Duluth) on Lake Superior, about one hundred and eighty miles,
and with a right to connect its road by branches with the road
of any railroad company in the Territory, to become the part
owner or lessee of any such railroad and to connect its road
with the road of such company, and also to connect with any
railroad running in the same direction. This power evidently
refers to traffic connections at the termini of the road with
other roads running in the same direction, in such manner as
to make a continuous line, of which the road in question was
to become a part. At this time railway construbtion west of
the Mississippi River was in its infancy; no road existed
within two hundred miles of St. Paul; the State was largely
a wilderness, and the object of the charter was evidently to
connect two cities upon the Mississippi River, one of which
was situated some distance above the head of navigation, and
also to connect the Mississippi with a port upon Lake Superior,
with the possibility that other roads might .be constructed
further up the river, or' in an easterly or westerly direction
into the interior. The road was a local one, and while power
was given to make traffic connections with other roads, none

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

669

Opinion of the Court.

such was given to consolidate with them-much less with
roads having a parallel line. Nor is the act claimed as authorizing the proposed contract.
To save any possible doubt as to the scope of the charter the
act was declared by section 17 "to be a public act, and may
be amended by any subsequent Legislative Assembly, in any
manner not destroying or impairing the vested rights of said
corporation."
Nothing appears to have been done under this charter prior
to 1865, when it was amended by reenacting its first section,
thereby legalizing and confirming the original organization of
the road, and amending section 12 so far as to authorize the
corporation "to connect with, or adopt as its own
any other railroad running in the same general direction with
either of its main lines or any branch roads, which said corporation is authorized to construct." Another section (8) was
added, authorizing the company "to consolidate the whole or
any portion of its capital stock with the capital stock or any
portion thereof of the road or branch road of any other railroad corporation or company having the same general direction or location, or to become merged therein by way of
substitution," etc. And further, by section 9, "to consolidate
any portion of. its road and property, and each branch being
organized as aforesaid, may consolidate any portion of its
branch road or property with the franchise of any other railroad company or any portion thereof," as might be agreed.
And still further, section 12, "to consolidate the whole or any
portion of its main line or branch railroads, and all the property, rights, powers, franchises, grants and effects pertaining
to such roads, with the rights, powers, franchises, grants and
effects of any other railroad company, either within or without the State," etc., as might be agreed. It will be observed
that the words in original section 12 as amended and in section 8, limiting the power to connect with or consolidate with
other roads, to those having "the same general direction or
location" are omitted in sections 9 and 12.
Under these very broad and practically unlimited powers,
the company, which, in 1889, took the name of the Great

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Northern, proceeded, by a series of consolidations, purchases
and leases, to extend its line to the Pacific Ocean, and absorb
to itself and operate as a combined system an aggregate length
of 4500 miles. It is now- proposed, by an arrangement with
the bondholders and contemplated purchasers of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, that the Great Northern Railway,
the defendant, shall guarantee, for the benefit of the holders
of the bonds to be issued by the reorganized company, the
payment of the principal and interest upon such bonds, and as
a consideration for such guaranty, and as a compensation for
the risk to the stockholders, the reorganized company shall
transfer to the shareholders of the defendant company, or to
a trustee for their use, one half of the capital stock of the reorganized company. By a further provision, the Northern
Pacific is to join with the defendant in providing facilities for
an interchange of cars and traffic between their respective
lines, and shall interchange traffic with the defendant, and
operate its trains to that end upon reasonable, fair and lawful
terms under joint tariffs or otherwise, the defendant having
the right to bill its traffic, passengers and freight from points
on its own line to points on the Northern Pacific not reached
by the Great Northern, with the further right to make use of
the terminal facilities of the Northern Pacific at points where
such facilities would be found to be convenient and economical,
jointly with that company.
As the Northern Pacific road also controls, by its own construction and by the purchase of stock, other roads extending
from the. Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean, and operates
as a single system an aggregate mileage of 4500 miles, most
of which is parallel to the Great Northern system, the effect
of this arrangement would .belio practically consolidate the
two systems, to operate 9000 miles of railway under a single
management, and to destroy any possible advantages the public might have through a competition between the two lines.
It is true that upon its face the agreement contemplates
principally an interchange of traffic between the lines under
joint tariffs, (by which is probably meant similar rates to be
agreed upon between the parties,) in order that the defendant

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY. 671
Opinion of the Court.

may enjoy the right to ticket its passengers and consign its
freight to points upon the line of the Northern Pacific, not
reached by the Great Northern, and to that end is also to have
the right to make use of the terminal facilities of the Northern
Pacific at such points on the line as should be convenient to
the defendant. If the sole object of this agreement were to
facilitate an interchange of traffic, so that each road might
enjoy the benefit of billing its passengers and freight to points
on the other road, not reached by it, it would be difficult to
foresee any objection to it. But the fact that one half of the
capital stock of the reorganized company is to be turned over
to the shareholders of the Great Northern, which is, in turn,
to guaranitee the payment of the reorganized bonds, is evidence
of the most cogent character to show. that nothing less than a
purchase of a controlling interest, and practically the absolute control, of the Northern Pacific is contemplated by the
arrangement. With half of its capital stock- already in its
hands, the purchase of enough to make a majority would follow almost as a matter of course, and the mastership of the
Northern Pacific would be assured.
That the transfer of stock is to be made, not directly to the
company, but to the shareholders, is immaterial, since it may
be assumed that they would cast their votes in the. interests of
the company. Either the stock so transferred becomes virtually the property of the Great Northern, or there is no consideration for its guaranty of the principal and interest of the
consolidated bonds. But as, by the agreement, the guaranty
by the defendant of the Northern Pacific bonds is assumed to
be in consideration of a transfer to its stockholders of one half
the capital stock of the reorganized company, it would inevitably follow that this stock would be held for the benefit
of the company. There is, however, in addition to that, an
alternative provision that the transfer may be made to a
trustee for the use of the stockholders, who would of course
act as their agent and represent them as a body, and in fact
stand as the company under another name. Doubtless these
stockholders could lawfully acquire by individual purchases a
majority, or even the whole of, the stock of the reorganized

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

company, and thus .possibly obtain its ultimate control; but
the companies would still remain separate corporations with
no interests, as such, in common. This, though possible, would
not be altogether feasible, and would require considerable time
for its accomplishment. In a few years the two companies
might by sales of the stock, so acquired, become completely
dissevered, and the interests of the stockholders of each company thus become antagonistic. Under the proposed arrangement, however, the Northern Pacific as a company, in return
for a guaranty, which the individual stockholders could not
give, turns over to a trustee for the entire body of stockholders
of the Great Northern one half of its stock, with the almost
certainty of the latter securing the complete control, and probably the ultimate amalgamation, of the two companies. If
such amalgamation were once effected, it would in all probability be final. We think the proposed arrangement is a
plain violation of the acts of the state legislature passed in
1874 and 1881, prohibiting railroad corporations from consolidating with, leasing or purchasing, or in any other way
becoming the owner of, or controlling any other railroad corporation, or the stock, franchises or rights of property thereof,
having a parallel or competing line.
Under the broad powers conferred by the amended act of
1865, it is probable that this arrangement might be lawfully
made; and the question is whether an unexecuted power to
make such arrangement is a "vested right" within the meaning of section 17 of the original act. It is possible that, if this
arrangement had been actually made and carried into effect,
before the acts forbidding the consolidation of parallel or
competing lines had been passed, the rights of the parties
thereto would have become vested, and could not be impaired
by any subsequent act of the legislature. But the real question before us is whether a bare unexecuted power to consolidate with other corporations, a power which, if it exists
as claimed by the defendant, would authorize it to absorb
by successive and gradual accretions the entire railway system of the country, is not, so long as it remains unexecuted, within the control of and subject to revocation by the

PEARSALL t%. G RAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

(17

Opinion of the Court.

legislature, at least, so far as it applies to parallel or competing lines.
A vested right is defined by Fearne, in his work upon Contingent Remainders, as "an immediate fixed right of present
or future enjoyment;" and by Chancellor Kent as "an immediate right of present enjoyment, or a present fixed right of
future enjoyment." 4 Kent Com. 202. It is said by Mr.
Justice Cooley that "rights are vested, in contradistinction
,to being expectant or contingent. They are vested when the
right to enjoyment, present or prospective, has become the
property of some particular person or persons as a present
interest. They are expectant, when they depend upon the
continued existence of the present condition of things until
the happening of some future event. They ale contingent,
when they are only to come into existence on an event or
condition which may not happen or be performed until some
other event may prevent their vesting." Principles of Const.
Law, 332.
As applied to railroad corporations, it may reasonably be
contended that the term extends to all rights of property
acquired by executed contracts, as well as to all such rights
as are necessary to the full and complete enjoyment of the
original grant, or of property legally acquired subsequent to
such grant. If, for example, the legislature should authorize
the construction of a certain railroad, and by a subsequent act
should take- away the power to raise funds for the construction of the road in the usual manner by a mortgage, or the
power to purchase rolling stock or equipment, such acts might
perhaps be treated as so far destructive of the original grant as
to render it valueless, although there might in neither case be
an express repeal of any of its provisions. Sala v. New Orlean8,
.2Woods, 188.
But where the charter authorizes the company in sweeping
terms to do certain thingswhich are unnecessary to the main
object of the-grant, and not directly and immediately within
the contemplation of the parties thereto, the power so con,
ferred, so long as it is unexeouted, is within the control of thQ.
legislature and may be treated. as o, license,. and may be revoL C..--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the CQurt.

yoked, if a possible exercise of such power is found to conflict
with the interests of the public. As applicable to the case
under consideration, we think it was competent for the legislature to declare that the power it had conferred upon the
Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railway Company to consolidate
its interest with those of other similar corporations should not
be exercised, so far as applicable to parallel and competing
lines, inasmuch as it is for the interest of the public that there
should be competition. between parallel roads. The legislature has the right to assume in this connection that neither
road would reduce its tariff to a destructive or unprofitable
figure, or to a point where either road would become valueless to its stockholders, and that the object of the act in question is to prevent such a combination between the two as
would constitute a monopoly.
When the act of 1865 was passed it was doubtless contemplated that the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railway Company
would desire to extend its road, (though it is hardly possible
to suppose that an extension to the Pacific coast was thought
of at that time,) and to build, purchase or lease branch roads,
which would serve as feeders to its main line, and open up
railway communication with territory naturally tributary to
St. Paul and other towns on the Mississippi River. Such anticipations were perfectly legitimate, and these broad powers
were undoubtedly intended as an encouragement to the construction of railways, to the development of the vast, unoccupied, but fertile, territory strefcbing in both directions from
the course of the Mississippi River, and also to a connection
with the fertile wheat-growing section of Manitoba, by a
branch road to the Canadian line. ]Had it occurred to the
legislature at that time that these almost unlimited powers
would be used to obtain the control of parallel and competing lines, and to stifle legitimate competition, doubtless a
proviso would have been inserted to meet thin possibility.
That the charter of 1865 might be made available to accomplish this purpose became apparent so soon, that, within nine
years thereafter, and before the construction of the road had
been.fairly entered upon, the legislature declared, in its act

PEARSALL v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY.

75

Opinion of the Court.

of March 9, 1874, that no railroad corporation should consolidate with, lease, purchase or control any parallel or competing line; and to indicate still more clearly that its object was
only to prevent the abuse of these powers by the creation of
a monopoly, it passed another act, in 1881, repeating this prohibition, and further declaring that any railroad corporation,
whether organized under general law or special charter, might
consolidate with, lease, purchase or in any way become the
owner of, or control, or hold the stock of any other railroad
corporation, when the respective roads could be lawfully connected and operated together, so as to constitute one continuous main line, with or without branches.
We do not deem it necessary to express an opinion in this
case whether the legislature could wholly revoke the power
it had given to this company to extend its system by the
construction or purchase of branch lines or feeders; since
the possibility of an extension of the road, even to the Pacific
coast, may have had an influence upon persons contemplating
the purchase of its stock or securities, so that a right to do
this might be said to have become vested. But we think it
was competent for the legislature, out of due regard for the
public welfare, to declare that its charter should not be used
for the purpose of stifling competition and building up monopolies. In short, we cannot recognize a vested right to do a
manifest wrong.
Nor do we undertake to say that the legislature may not,
in the exercise of a wise foresight, and for the purpose of
attracting capital to enterprises of doubtful profit, authorize
the granting of monopolies for a limited time, irrevocable by
a subsequent legislature. To do so would practically ignore
or overrule a series of cases to -which we have already adverted, wherein corporations have been induced to furnish
municipalities with bridges, gas, water and other requirements of modern civilization, by the promise of exclusive
privileges for a term of years. Perhaps, too, it might not
be beyond the competency of the legislature to authorize a
railroad, by a clear and explicit act, to -consolidate with
a parallel or competing line, since cases may be imagined

OCTOBER TEAM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

where it might be for the public welfare to permit such
consolidation. But the act of 1865, upon which the defendant relies, contains no such provision. There is only a general authority to consolidate, which we think the legislature
may, by another act, declare shall not apply to cases manifestly not within its original intent. We think the general
doctrine, requiring grants to corporations to be construed
favorably to the public, where there is a reasonable doubt
as to the extent of the privilege conferred, may properly be
invoked to declare that such privileges shall not be used to
the detriment of the public.
Whether the consolidation of competing lines will necessarily result in ian increase of rates, or whether such consolidation has generally resulted in a detriment to the public, is
beside the question. Whether it has that effect or*not, it.
certainly puts it in the power of the consolidated corporation
to give it that effect -in short, puts the public at the mercy
of the corporation. There is and has been, for the past three
hundred years, both in England and in this country, a popular prejudice against monopolies in general, which has found
expression in innumerable acts of legislation. We cannot
say that such prejudice is not well founded. It is a matter
upon which the legislature is entitled to pass judgment. At
least there is sufficient doubt of the propriety of such monopolies to authorize the legislature, which may be presumed to
represent the views of the public, to say that it will not tolerate them unless the power to establish them be cqnferred
by clear and explicit language. While, in particular cases,
two railways by consolidating their interests under a single
management, may have been able to so far reduce the expenses of administration as to give their customers the benefit
of a lower tariff, the logical effect of all monopolies is an
increase of price of the thing produced, whether it be merchandise or transportation. Owing to the greater speed and
cheapness of the service performed by them, railways become
necessarily monopolists of all traffic along their lines; but the
general sentiment of the public declares that such monopolies
must be limited to the necessities of the case, and rebels

