BROWN v. WALKER.
Statement of the Case.

The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the petition was
clearly referable to its jurisdiction of the equity suit, which
depended wholly upon diverse citizenship, and the case comes
directly within recent decisions of this court holding that
under such circumstances the decrees and judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final by section six of the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891. Rouse v. Letcher, supra;
Gregory v. Van Ee, 160 U. S. 64-3; Carey v. Houston and
Texas Railway Co., 161 U. S. 115. As the final order below
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we are not
called upon to entertain jurisdiction simply because that
affirmance ias entered on the writ of error rather than the
appeal.
Writ of error dismissed.

BROWN v. WALKER.
APPEAL FROAM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 765. Argued January 28, 1896. -Decided

March 23, 1896.

The provision in the act of February 11, 1893, c. 83, 27 Stat. 443, "that no
person shall be excused from attending and testifying or from producing
books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements, and documents before the
Interstate Commerce Commission, or in obedience to the subpoena of the
Commission, on the ground or for the reason that the testimony or evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of him may tend to criminate
him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture: but no person shall be
prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account
of any transaction, matter or thing, concerning which he may testify, or
produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, before said Commission or
in obedience to its subpcena, or the subpcena of either of them, or in any
such case or proceeding," affords absolute immunity against prosecution,
Federal or state, for the offence to which the question relates, and deprives the witness of his constitutional right to refuse to answer.

TIs was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court,
made upon the return of a writ of Aabeas corpus, remanding
the petitioner Brown to the custody of the marshal, the respondent in this case.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

It appeared that the petitioner had been subpcenaed as a
witness before the grand jury, at a term of th6 District Court

for the Western District of Pennsylvania, to testify in relation
to a charge then under investigation by that body against certain officers and agents of the Allegheny Valley Railway Company, for an alleged violation of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Brown, the appellant, appeared for examination, in response to
the subpoena, and was sworn. After testifying thatChe was
was his duty to
auditor of the railway company, and that 'it
audit the accounts of the various officers of the company, as
well as the accounts of the freight department of such company
during the years 1894 and 1895, he was asked the question:
"Do you know whether or not the Allegheny Valley Railway Company transported for the Union Coal Company, during the months of July, August and September, 1894, coal
from any point on the Low Grade division of said railroad
company to Buffalo at a less rate than the established rates
in force between the terminal points at the time of such
transportation ?"
To this question he answered:
"That question, with all respect to the grand jury and yourself, I must decline to answer for the reason that my answer
would tend to accuse and incriminate myself."
He was then asked:
"Do you know whether the Allegheny Valley Railway
Company during the year 1894, paid to the Union Coal Company any rebate, refund or commission on coal transported by
said railroad company from points on its Low Grade division
to Buffalo, whereby the Union Coal Company obtained a
transportation of such coal between the said terminal points
at a less rate than the open tariff rate or the rate established
by said company? If you have such knowledge, state the
amount of such rebates or drawbacks or commissions paid, to
whom paid, the date of the same, and on what shipments;
and state fully all the particulars within your knowledge
relating to such transaction or transactions."
Answer. "That question I must also decline to answer for
the reason already given."

BROWNI v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

The grand jury reported these questions and answers to the
court, and prayed for such order as to the court might seem
meet and proper. Upon the presentation of this report,
Brown was ordered to appear and show cause why he should
not answer the said questions or be adjudged in contempt;
and upon the hearing of the rule to show cause, it was found
that his excuses were insufficient, and he was directed to
appear and answer the questions, which he declined to do.
Whereupon he was adjudged to be in contenipt and ordered
to pay a fine of five dollars, and to be taken into custody
until he should have answered the questions.
He thereupon petitioned the Circuit Court for a writ of
habeas corpus, stating in his petition the substance of the above
facts. The writ was issued, petitioner was produced in court,
the hearing was had, and on the eleventh day of September,
1895, it was ordered that the petition be dismissed, the writ
of habeas corpus discharged, and the petitioner remanded to
the custody of the marshal. 70 Fed. Rep. 46.
From that judgment Brown appealed to this court.
.Af. James C. Carter for appellant.
.Mfr. George F. Edmunds for appellee.
MR. JusTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case involves an alleged incompatibility between that
clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, which
declares that no person "shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself," and the act of Congress
of February 11, 1893, c. 83, 27 Stat. 443, which enacts that
"no person shall be excused from attending and testifying or
from producing books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements
and documents before the Interstate Commerce Commission,
or in obedience to the subpcena of the Commission, .
on the ground or for the reason that the testimony or evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of him, may tend
to criminate him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture.
vOL. cLxi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Bat no person shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty
or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter or
thing, concerning which he may testify, or produce evidence,
documentary or otherwise, before said Commission, or in
obedience to its subpoena, or the subpoena of either of them,
or in any such case or proceeding."
The act is supposed to have been passed in view of the
opinion of this court in Counselzan' v. Iitchcock, 142 U. S.
547, to the effect that section 860 of the Revised Statutes,
providing that no evidence given by a witness shall be used
against him, his property or estate, in any manner, in any
court of the United States, in any criminal proceeding, did
not afford that complete protection to the witness which the
amendment was intended to guarantee. The gist of that
decision is contained in the following extracts from the opinion of Mr. Justice Blatchford, (pp. 564, 585,) referring to section 860: "It could not, and would not, prevcnt the use of
his testimony to search out other testimony to be used in evidence against him or his property, in a criminal proceeding
in such court. It'could not prevent the obtaining and the use
of witnesses and evidence which should be attributable directly
to the testimony he might give under compulsion, and on which
he might be convicted, when otherwise, and if he had refused
to answer, he could not possibly have been convicted." And
again: "We are clearly of opinion that no statute which
leaves the party or witness subject to prosecution, after he
answers the criminating question put to him, can have the
effect of supplanting the privilege conferred- by the Constitution of the United States. Section 860 of the Revised Statutes
does not supply a complete protection from all the perils
against which the constitutional prohibition was designed to
guard, and is not a full substitute for that prohibition. In
view of the constitutional provision, a statutory enactment,
to be valid, must afford absolute immunity against future
prosecutions for the offence to which the question relates."
The inference from this language is that, if the statute
does afford such imnmunity against future prosecution, the
witness will be compellable to testify. So also in Einery's

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

case, 107 Mass. 172, 185, and in Cullen v. Commonwealth, 24
Gratt. 624, upon which much reliance was placed in Counselman v. flitchcock, it was intimated that the witness might be
required to forego an appeal to the protection of the fundamental law, if he were first secured from future liability and
exposure to be prejudiced, in any criminal proceeding against
him, as fully and extensively as he would be secured by availing himself of the privilege accorded by the Constitution. To
meet this construction of the constitutional provision, the act
in question was passed,,exempting the witness from any prosecution on account of any transaction to which he may testify.
The case before us is whether this sufficiently satisfies the
constitutional guaranty of protection.
The clause of the Constitution in question is obviously susceptible of two interpretations. If it be construed literally,
as authorizing the witness to refuse to disclose any fact which
might tend to incriminate, disgrace or expose him to unfavorable comments, then as he must necessarily to a large extent
determine upon his own conscience and responsibility whether
his answer to the proposed question will have that tendency,
1 Burr's Trial, 244; Fisher v. ]?onalds, 12 C. B. 762; Reynell
v. Sprye, 1 De Gex, McN. & G. 656; Adams v. Lloyd, 3 H. &
N. 351; Merluzzi v. Gleesom, 59 Maryland, 214; Bunn v. Bunn,
4 De Gex, J. & S. 316; Ex ra'te Reynolds, 20 Ch. Div. 294;
Exyarte Schofteld, 6 Ch. Div. 230, the practical result would
be, that no one could be compelled to testify to a material
fact in a criminal case, unless he chose to do so, or unless it
was entirely clear that the privilege was not set up in good
faith. If, upon the other hand, the object of the provision be
to secure the witness against a criminal prosecution, which
might be aided directly or indirectly by his disclosure, then,
if no such prosecution be possible -in other words, if his testimony operate as a complete pardon for the offence to which
it relates- a statute absolutely securing to him such immunity from prosecution would satisfy the demands of the clause
in question.
Our attention has been called to but few cases wherein this
provision, which is found with slight variation in the constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of every State, has been construed in connection with a
statute similar to the one before us, as the decisions have usually turned upon the validity of statutes providing, as did section 860, that the testimony given by such witness should.
never be used against him in any criminal prosecution. It
can only be said in general that the clause should be construed, as it was doubtless designed, to effect a practical and
beneficent purpose-not necessarily to protect witnesses
against every possible detriment which might happen to
them from their testimony, nor to unduly impede, hinder or
obstruct the administration of criminal justice. That the
statute should be upheld, if it can be construed in harmony
with the fundamental law, will be admitted. Instead of seeking for excuses for holding acts of the legislative power to be
void by reason of their conflict with the Constitution, or with
certain supposed fundamental principles of civil liberty, the
effort should be to reconcile them if possible, and not to hold
the law invalid unless, as was observed by Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 128, "the opposition between the Constitution and the law be such that the
judge feels a clear and strong conviction of their incompatibility with each other."
The maxim nemo tenetur seiPsum accusare had its origin in
a protest Against the inauisitorial and manifestly unjust methods of interrogating accused persons, which has long obtained
in the continental system, and, until the expulsion of the Stuarts from the British throne in 1688, and the erection of additional barriers for the protection of the people against the
exercise of arbitrary power, was not uncommon even in England. While the admissions or confessions of the prisoner,
when voluntarily and freely made, have always ranked high
in the scale of incriminating evidence, if an accused person be
asked to explain his apparent connection with a crime under
investigation, the ease with which the questions put to him
may assume an inquisitorial character, the temptation to press
the witness unduly, to browbeat him if he be timid or reluctant,
to push him into a corner, and to entrap him into fatal contradictions, which is so painfully evident in many of the earlier

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

state trials, notably in those of Sir Nicholas Throckmorton,
and Udal, the Puritan minister, made the system so odious as
to give rise to a demand for its total abolition. The change
in the English criminal procedure in that particular seems to
be founded upon no statute and no judicial opinion, but upon
a general and silent acquiescence of the courts in a popular
demand. But, however adopted, it has become firmly embedded in English, as well as in American jurisprudence. So
deeply did the iniquities of the ancient system impress themselves upon the minds of the American colonists that the
States, with one accord, made a denial of the right to question an accused person a part of their fundamental law, so
that a maxim, which in England was a mere rule of evidence,
became clothed in this country with the impregnability of a
constitutional enactment.
Stringent as the general rule is, however, certain classes of
cases have always been treated as not falling within the reason of the rule, and, therefore, constituting apparent exceptions. When examined, these cases will all be found to be
based upon the idea that, if the testimony sought cannot
possibly be used as a basis for, or in aid of, a criminal prosecution against the witness, the rule ceases to apply, its object
being to protect the witness himself and no one else -much
less that it shall be made use of as a pretext for securing
immunity to others.
1. Thus, if the witness himself elects to waive his privilege,
as he may doubtless do, since the privilege is for his protection and not for that of other parties, and discloses his criminal connections, he is not permitted to stop, but must go
on and make a full disclosure. 1 Greeni. Ev. § 451; Dixon
v. Fale, 1 0. & P. 278; -East v. Chapman, 2 0. & P. 570;
8. C. L.& M. 46; State v.K
,4 N. H. 562; Low v.
Xiitekell, 18 Maine, 372; Coburrn v. Odell, 10 Fost. (N. H.)
540; Norfolk v. Gaylord, 28 Connecticut, 309; Austin v.
Poiner,1 Sim. 348; Commonwealth v. Pratt,126 -Mass. 462;
Ckamberlain v. WIllson, 12 Vermont, 491 ; -Loekett v. State, 63
Alabama, 5; People v. Freskour,55 California, 375.
So, under modern statutes permitting accused persons to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

take the stand in their own behalf, they may be subjected to
cross-examination upon their statements. State v. IFentworth,
65 Maine, 234; State v. Witham, 72 Maine, 531 ; State v. Ober,
52 N. H. 492; Commonwealth v. Bonner, 97 Mass. 587;
Commonwealth v. .Morgan, 107 Mass. 199; Commonwealth
v. .lullen, 97 Mass. 545 ; Connors v. People, 50 N. Y. 240;
People v. Casey, 72 N. Y. 393.
2. For the same reason if a prosecution for a crime, concerning which the witness is interrogated, is barred by the
statute of limitations, he is qompellable to answer. Parkhurst v. Lowten, 1 Merivale, 391, 400; Calhoun v. Thompson,
56 Alabama, 166; .Mahanke v. Cleland, 76 Iowa, 401; Weldon v. Burch, 12 Illinois, 374; United States v. Smith, 4 Day,
121; Close v. Olney, 1 Denio, 319; People v. Mather,4 Wend.
229, 252-255; Tilliams v. Farrington,11 Cox Ch. R. 202;
Davis v. Reid, 5 Sim. 443; Floyd v. State, 7 Tex. 215;
.Maloney v. Dows, 2 Hilt. 247; Wfofe v. Goulard, 15 Abb.
Pr. 336.
3. If the answer of the witness fihay have a tendency to
disgrace him or bring him into disrepute, and the proposed
evidence be material to the issue on trial, the great weight of
authority is that he may be compelled to answer, although,
if the answer can have no effect upon the case, except so far
as to impair the credibility of the witness, he may fall back
upon his privilege. 1 Greenl. on Ev. §§ 454 and 455; People v.
.Mather, 4 Wend. 229; 1ohman v. People, 1 N. Y. 379 ; Commonwealth v. Roberts, Brightly, 109; Teldon v. Burch, 12 Illinois, 374; Cundell v. Pratt,Moody & Malkin, 108; Ex parte
Rowe, 7 California, 184. But even in the latter case, if the
answer of the witness will not directly show his infamy, but
only tend to disgrace him, he is bound to answer. - 1 Greenl.
on Ev. § 456. The cases of Respublica v. Gibbs, 3 Yeates, 429,
and Lessee of Galbreath v. EJchelberger,3 Yeates, 515, to the
contrary, are opposed to the weight of authority.
The extent to which the witness is compelled to answer
such questions as do not fix upon him a criminal culpability
is within the control of the legislature. State v. Nowell, 53
N. H. 314, 316.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

4. It is almost a necessary corollary of the above propositions that, if the witness has already received a pardon, he
cannot longer set up his privilege, since he stands with respect
to such offence as if it had never been committed. Roberm v.
Allatt,Moody & IMalkin, 192, overruling Rex v. Reading,7 How.
St. Tr. 259, 296, and Rex v. Earl of Shaftsbury, 8 How. St.
Tr. 817; Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, 321. In the latter case
it was suggested, in answer to the production by the Solicitor
General of a pardon of the witness under the Great Seal, that
by statute, no such pardon under the Great Seal was pleadable to an impeachment by the Commons in Parliament, and it
was insisted that this was a sufficient reason for holding that
the privilege of the witness still existed, upon the ground that,
though protected by the pardon against every other form of
prosecution, the witness might possibly be subjected to parliamentary impeachment. It was also contended in that case,
as it is in the one under consideration, "that a bare possibility
of legal peril was sufficient to entitle a witness to protection.
Nay, further, that the witness was the sole judge as to whether
his evidence would bring him into the danger of the law; and
that the statement of his belief to that effect, if not manifestly made mala fide, would be received as conclusive." It
was held, however, by Lord Chief Justice Cockburn that "to
entitle a party called as a witness to the privilege of silence,
the court must see, from the circumstances of the case and
the nature of the evidence which the witness is called to give,
that there is reasonable ground to apprehend danger to the
witness from his being compelled to answer," although "if
the fact of the witness being in danger be once made to
appear, great latitude should be allowed to him in judging
for himself of the effect of any particular question."
"Further than this," said the Chief Justice, "we are of
opinion that the danger to be -apprehended must be real and
appreciable, with reference to the ordinary operation of law
in the ordinary course of things,- not a danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character, having reference to some
extraordinary and barely possible contingency, so improbable
that no reasonable man would suffer it to influence his con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

duct. We think that a merely remote. and naked possibility,
out of the ordinary course of the law and such as no reasonable man would be affected by, should not be suffered to obstruct the administration of justice. The object of the law is
to afford to a party, called upon to give evidence in a proceeding inter alios, protection against being brought by means of
his own evidence within the penalties of the law. But it
would be to convert a salutary protection into a means of
abuse if it were to be held that a mere imaginary possibility
of danger, however remote and improbable, was sufficient to
justify the withholding of evidence essential to the ends of
justice."
All of the cases above cited proceed upon the idea that the
prohibition against his being compelled to testify against
himself .presupposes a legal detriment to the witness arising
from the exposure. As the object of the first eight amendments to the Constitution was to incorporate into the fundamental law of the land certain principles of natural justice
which had become permanently fixed in the jurisprudence of
the mother country, the construction given to those principles
by the English courts is cogent evidence of what they were
designed to secure and of the limitations that should be put
upon them. This is but another application of the familiar
rule that where one State adopts the laws of another, it is
also presumed to adopt the known and settled construction
of those laws by the courts of the State from which they are
taken. Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 280; _lMcDonald v.
Hovey, 110 U. S. 619.
The danger of extending the principle announced in Counselman v. Ritchcock is that the privilege may be put forward
for a sentimental reason, or for a purely fanciful protection of
the witness against an imaginary danger, and for the real
purpose of securing immunity to some third person, who is
interested in concealing the facts to Which he would testify.
Every good citizen is bound to aid in the enforcement of the
law, and has no right to permit himself, under the pretext of
shielding his own good name, to be made the tool of gthers,
who are desirous of seeking shelter behind his privilege.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

The act of Congress in question securing to witnesses
immunity from prosecution is virtually an act of general
amnesty, and belongs to a class of legislation which is not
uncommon either in England, (2 Taylor on Evidence, § 1455,
where a large number of similar acts are collated,) or in
this country. Although the Constitution vests in the President "power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences
against the United States, except in cases of impeachment,"
this power has never been held to take from Congress the
power to pass acts of general amnesty, and is ordinarily exercised only in cases of individuals after conviction, although,
as was said by this court in Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333,
380, "it extends to every offence known to the law, and may
be exercised at any time after its commission, either before
legal proceedings are taken, or during their pendency, or
after conviction and judgment."
In the case of Tlie Laura, 114 U. S. 411, objection was
made that a remission by the Secretary of the Treasury,
under Rev. Stat. § 4294, of penalties incured by a steam vessel for taking on board an unlawful number of passengers,
was ineffectual to destroy liability by reason of the fact that
it involved an exercise of the pardoning power. It was held
that, in view of the practice in reference to remissions by the
Secretary of the Treasury and other officers, which had been
sanctioned by statute and acquiesced in for nearly a century,
the power vested in the President was not exclusive in the
sense that no other officer could remit forfeitures or penalties
incurred for the violation of the laws of the United States citing United States v. Morris, 10 Wheat. 246.
The distinction between amnesty and pardon is of no
practical importance. It is said in JEnote v. United States,
95 U. S. 149, 15, "the Constitution does not use the word
'amnesty,' and, except that the term is generally applied
where pardon is extended to whole classes or communities,
instead of individuals, the distinction between them is one
rather of philological interest than of legal importance."
Amnesty is defined by the lexicographers to be an act of the
sovereign power granting oblivion, or a general pardon for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

past offence, and is rarely, if ever, exercised in favor of single
individuals, and is usually exerted in behalf of certain classes
of persons, who are subject to trial, but have not yet been
convicted.
While the decisions of the English courts construing such
acts are of little value here, in view of the omnipotence of
Parliament, such decisions as have been made under similar
acts in this country are, with one or two exceptions, we
believe, unanimous in favor of their constitutionality.
Thus in State v. Howell, 58 N. I. 314, a statute which provided that a clerk, servant or agent should not be excused
from testifying against his principal, and that he should not
thereafter be prosecuted for any offence disclosed by him, was
held to have deprived him of his privilege of silence. In
delivering the opinion, the court observed "that the legislature, haiing undertaken to obtain the testimony of the witness without depriving him of his constitutional privilege of
protection, must relieve him from all liabilities on account of
the matters which he is compelled to disclose; otherwise, the
statute would be ineffectual. He is to be secured against all
liability to future prosecution as effectually as if he were
wholly innocent. This would not be accomplished if he were
left liable to prosecution criminally for any matter in respect
to which he may be required to testify.

.

.

.

The condi-

tional exemption becomes absolute when the witness testifies,
and, being no longer liable to prosecution, he is not compelled, by testifying, to accuse or furnish evidence against
himself.

.

.

.

The constitutional privilege of the witness

protects, not another person against whom the witness testifies, but the witness himself. The legal protection of the
witness against prosecution for crime disclosed by him is, in
law, equivalent to his legal innocence of the crime disclosed.
. .

.

The witness, regarded in law as innocent if prosecuted

for a crime which he has been compelled by the statute to disclose, will stand as well as other innocent persons, and it was
not the design of the common law maxim, affirmed by the bill
of rights, that he should stand any better."
In Kendrick v. The Commonwealth, 78 Virginia, 490, a

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

statute secured to a witness called to testify concerning unlawful gaming, immunity against prosecution for any offence committed by him at the time and place indicated, and it was held
that, as it gave to the witness full indemnity and assurance
against any liability to prosecution, it was his duty to testify,
notwithstanding that his answer might have a tendency to
disgrace him.
The same construction was given to a similar statute of
Texas in Floyd v. State, 7 Texas, 215, though the opinion is
brief and does little more than state the conclusions of the
court.
In the recent case of Ex 2arte Cohen, 104 California, 524,
one Steinberger was charged, under a statute of California,
with allowing Cohen to be registered as a voter, knowing
that he was not entitled to registration. Cohen, being called
as a witness, was asked certain questions with regard to the
charge, and set up his privilege. The election law of California provided not only that the testimony given should not
be used in any prosecution against the witness, but that he
should not thereafter be liable to indictment, information or
prosecution for the offence with reference to which his testimony was given. The court held that it was only when his
evidence might tend to establish an offence, for which he
might be punished under the laws of the State, that a person
is a witness "against himself " in a criminal case, and the fact
that, in a proceeding in which he is not the defendant, his
testimony might tend to show that he had violated the laws
of the State, was not sufficient to entitle him to claim this
protection of the Constitution, unless he is at the same time
liable to prosecution and punishment for such crime.
"If," said the court, "at the time of the transactions,
respecting which his testimony is sought, the acts themselves
did not constitute an offence; or if, at the time of giving the
testimony, the acts are no longer punishable; if the statute
creating the offence has been repealed; if the witness has been
tried for the offence and acquitted, or, if convicted, has satisfied the sentence of the law; if the offence is barred by the
statute of limitations, and there is no pending prosecution

OCTOBER TERM',

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

against the witness-he cannot claim any privilege under
this provision of the Constitution, since his testimony could
not be used against him in any criminal case against himself,
and consequently he is not compelled to be a witness 'against
himself.' Equally is he deprived of claiming this exemption
from giving evidence, if the legislature has declared that be
shall not be prosecuted or punished for any offence of which
he gives evidence. Any evidence that he may give under such
a statutory direction will not be ' against himself,' for the reason that, by. the very act of giving the evidence, he becomes
exempted from any prosecution or punishment for the offence
respecting which'his evidence is given. In such a case he is
not compelled to give evidence which may be used against himself in any criminal case, for the reason that the legislature
has declared that there can be no criminal case against him
which the evidence which he gives may tend to establish."
In Mlirsch v. State, 67 Tennessee, 89, the same construction
was given to a similar statute in Tennessee, which exempted
witnesses from prosecution for offences as to which they had
given testimony before the grand jury, the court holding that
this was "an abrogation of the offence;" that the witness
could neither be accused by another, nor could he accuse himself, and therefore he could not criminate himself by such testimony. It is but just to say, however, that in Warnerv. State,
81 Tennessee, 52, the same statute was construed as merely
offering a reward to a witness for waiving his constitutional
privilege, and not as compelling him to answer. But, for the
reasons already given, we think that the witness cannot properly be said to give evidence against himself, unless such evidence may in some proceeding be used against him, or unless
he may be subjected to a prosecution for the transaction concerning which he testifies. In each of the last two cases there
were dissenting opinions.
In T7razee v. State, 5S Indiana, 8, a section of the criminal
code of Indiana compelling a witness to testify against another
for gaming, and providing that he should not be liable to indictment or punishment in such case, was enforced, though its constitutionality was not considered at length.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Finally, in People v. Sharp, 107'N. Y. 427, a section Of the
penal code declared that any person offending against certain
provisions of the code relating to bribery might be compelled
to testify, but that the person testifying to the giving of a
bribe, which has been accepted, shall not thereafter be liable
to indictment, prosecution or punishment for that bribery.
This statute was held not to be violative of the constitutional
provision that no person shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself. Counsel in that case
seem to have pursued much the same line of argument that
was made in the case under consideration, claiming that the
statutory protection did not go far enough; that the indemnity that it offered to the witness was partial and not complete; that while it might save him from the penitentiary by
excluding his evidence, it did not prevent the infamy and
disgrace of its exposure. But that, said the court, quoting
from Peotple v. Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74, 83, "is the misfortune of
his condition, and, not any want of humanity in the law."
It is entirely true that the statute does not purport, nor is it
possible for any statute, to shield the witness from the personal disgrace or opprobrium attaching to the exposure of his
crime; but, as we 'have already observed, the authorities are
numerous and very nearly uniform to the effect that, if the
proposed testimony is material to the issue on trial, the fact
that the testimony may tend to degrade the witness in public
estimation does not exempt him from the duty of disclosure.
A person who commits a criminal act is bound to contemplate
the consequences of exposure to his good name and reputation, and ought not to call upon the courts to protect that
which he has himself esteemed to be of such little value. The
safety and welfare of an entire community should not be put
into the scale against the reputation of a self-confessed criminal, who ought not, either in justice or in good morals, to
refuse to disclose that which may be of great public utility,
in order that his neighbors may think well of him. The
design of the constitutional privilege is not to aid the witness in vindicating his character, but to protect him against
being compelled to furnish evidence to convict him of a crimi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nal charge. If he secure legal immunity from prosecution,
the possible impairment of his good name is a penalty which
it is reasonable he should be compelled to pay for the common
good. If it be once conceded that the fact that his testimony
may tend to bring the witness into disrepute, though not to
incriminate him, does not entitle him to the privilege of
silence, it necessarily follows that if it also tends to incriminate, but at the same time operates as a pardon for the offence,
the fact that the disgrace remains no more entitles him to
immunity in this case than in the other.
It is argued in this connection that, while the witness is
granted immunity from prosecution by the Federal government, he does not obtain such immunity against prosecution
in the state courts. We are unable to appreciate the force
of this suggestion. It is true that the Constitution does not
operate upon a witness testifying in the state courts, since we
have held that the first eight amendments are limitations only
upon the powers of Congress and the Federal courts, and are
not applicable to the several States, except so far as the Fourteenth Amendment may have made them applicable. Barron
v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 2413; ox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; Withers
v. Buckley, 20 How. 84; I"witchell v. Gommonwealth, 7 Wall.
321; Presser v. -Jllinois,116 U. S. 252.
There is no such restriction, however, upon the applicability of Federal statutes. The Sixth Article of the Constitution declares that "This Constitution, and the Laws of the
United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and
all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the
Land; and the Tudges in every State shall be bound thereby,
anything in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding."
The language of this article is so direct and explicit, that
but few cases have arisen where this court has been called
upon to interpret it, or to determine its applicability to state
courts. But, in the case of Stewart v. Hahn, 11 Wall. 493,
505, the question arose whether a debt contracted by a citizen of New Orleans, prior to the breaking out of the rebellion,

BROWN v. WA.LKER.
Opinion of the Court

was subject in a state court to the statute of limitations passed
by Congress June 11, 1864, declaring that as to actions which
should accrue during the existence of the rebellion, against
persons who could not be served with process by reason of
the war, the time when such persons were beyond the reach
of judicial process should not be taken or deemed to be any
part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such
actions. The court held unanimously that the debt was subject to this act, and in delivering the opinion of the court Mr.
Justice Swayne said: "But it has been insisted that the act
of 1864: was intended to be administered only in the Federal
courts, and that it has no application to cases pending in the
courts of the State. The language is general. There is
nothing in it which requires or will warrant so narrow a construction. It lays down a rule as to the subject, and has no
reference to the tribunals by which it is to be applied. A
different interpretation would defeat, to a large extent, the
object of its enactment. . . . The judicial anomaly would
be presented of one rule of property in the Federal courts and
another, and a different one, in the courts of the States, and
debts could be recovered in the former which would be barred
in the latter." This case was affirmed in United States v.
Wiley, 11 Wall. 508; and in Mayfield v. Richards, 115 U. S.
137. See also Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633. The same
principle has also been applied in a number of cases turning
upon the effect to be given to treaties in actions arising in
the state courts. Foster v. lVeilson, 2 Pet. 253 ; The Cherokee
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616; The Head .Money cases, 112 U. S.580.
Of similar character are the cases in which we have held that
the laws of the several States upon tbe subjects of pilotage,
quarantines, inspections and other similar regulations were
operative only so long as Congress failed to legislate upon the
subject.
The act in question contains no suggestion that it is to be
applied only to the Federal courts. It declares broadly that
"no person shall be excused from attending and testifying
. . .before
the Interstate Commerce Commission . .
on the ground . . . that the testimony . . . required

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of -him may tend to criminate him," etc. "But no person shall
be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or
on account of any transaction, matter or thing concerning
which he may testify," etc. It is not that he shall not be
prosecuted for or on account of any crime concerning which
he may testify, which might possibly be urged to apply only
to crimes under the Federal law and not to crimes, such as the
passing of counterfeit money, etc.; which are also cognizable
under state laws; but the immunity extends to any transac
tion, matter or thing concerning which he may testify, which
clearly indicates that the immunity is intended to be general,
and to be applicable whenever and in whatever court such
prosecution may be bad.
But even granting that there were still a bare possibility
that by his disclosure he might be subjected to the criminal
laws of some other sovereignty, that, as Chief Justice Cockburn said in Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S.311, in reply to the
argument that the witness was not protected by his pardon
against an impeachment by the House of Commons, is not a
real and probable danger, with reference to the ordinary
operations of the law in the ordinary courts, but "a danger
of an imaginary and unsubstantial character, having reference
to some extraordinary and barely possible contingency, so improbable that no reasonable man wofild suffer it to influence
his conduct." Such dangers it was never the object of the
provision to obviate.
The same answer may be made to the suggestion that the
witness is imperfectly protected by reason of the fact that be
may still be prosecuted and put to the annoyance and expense
of pleading his immunity by way of confession and avoidance.
This is a detriment which the law does not recognize. There
is a possibility that any citizen, however innocent, may be
subjected to a civil or criminal prosecution, and put to the
expense of defending himself, but unless such prosecution be
malicious, he is remediless, except so far as a recovery of costs
may partially indemnify him. He may even be -convicted of
a crime and suffer imprisonment or other punishment before
his innocence is discovered, but that gives him no claim to

BROWN v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

indemnity against the State, or even against the prosecutor
if the action of the latter was taken in good faith and in a
reasonable belief that he was justified in so doing.
In the case under consideration, the grand jury was engaged
in investigating certain alleged violations of the Interstate
Commerce Act, among which was a charge against the Allegheny Valley Railway Company of transporting coal of the
Union Coal Company from intermediate points to Buffalo, at
less than the established rates between the terminal points,
and a further charge of discriminating in favor of such coal
company by rebates, drawbacks or commissions on its coal,
by which it obtained transportation at less than the tariff
rates. Brown, the witness, was the auditor of the road,
whose duty it was to audit the accounts of the officers, and
the money paid out by them. Having audited the accounts
of the freight department during the time in question, he was
asked whether he knew of any such discrimination in favor of
the Union Coal Company, and declined to answer upon the
ground that he would thereby incriminate himself.
As he had no apparent authority to make the forbidden
contracts, to receive the money earned upon such contracts,
or to allow or pay any rebates, drawbacks or commissions
thereon, and was concerned only in auditing accounts, and
passing vouchers for money paid by others, it is difficult to
see how, under any construction of section 10 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, he could be said to have wilfully done anything, or aided or abetted others in doing anything, or in
omitting to do anything, in violation of the act-his duty
being merely to see that others bad done what they purported
to have done, and that the vouchers rendered by them were
genuine. But, however this may be, it is entirely clear that
he was not the chief or even a substantial offender against
the law, and that his privilege was claimed for the purpose of
shielding the railway or its officers from answering a charge
of having violated its provisions. To say that, notwithstanding his immunity from punishment, he would incur personal
odium and disgrace from answering these questions, seems
too much like an abuse of language to be worthy of serious
VOL. CLXI--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

consideration. But, even if this were true, under the authorities above cited, he would still be compelled to answer, if the
facts sought to be elucidated were material to the issue.
If, as was justly observed in the opinion of the court below,
witnesses standing in Brown's position were at liberty to set
up an immunity from testifying, the enforcement of the Interstate Commerce law or other analogous acts, wherein it is for
the interest of both parties to conceal their misdoings, would
become impossible, since it is only from the mouths of those
having knowledge of the inhibited contracts that the facts
can be ascertained. While the constitutional provision in
question is justly regarded as one of the most valuable prerogatives of the citizen, its object is fully accomplished by
the statutory immunity, and we are, therefore, of opinion
that the witness was compellable to answer, and that the
judgment of the court below must be
Affirmned.

MR. JUSTICE SIIAs, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.

GRAY and MR.

It is too obvious to require argument that, when the people
of the United States, in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, declared that no person should be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself, it was their
intention, not merely that every person should have such
immunity, but that his right thereto should not be divested
or impaired by any act of Congress.
Did Congress, by the act of February 11, 1893, which enacted that "no person shall be excused from attending and
testifying or from producing books, papers, tariffs, contracts,
agreements and documents before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, or in obedience to the subpoena of the commission, on the ground or for the reason that the testimony or
evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of him may
tend to criminate him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture," seek to compel any person to be a witness against himself And, if so, was such provision of that act void because
incompatible with the constitutional guaranty?

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

That it was the intention of the act to exact compulsory
disclosure by every witness of all "testimony or evidence,
documentary or otherwise, required of him," regardless of the
fact that such disclosure might tend to criminate him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture, was held by the court
below, and such seems to be the plain meaning of the language of the act.
That the questions put to the witness, in the present case,
tended to accuse and incriminate him, was sworn to by the
witness himself, and was conceded or assumed by the court
below. The refusal by the witness, in the exercise of his constitutional immunity, to answer the questions put, was held by
the court to be fn act of contempt, and the witness was ordered to pay a fine, and to be imprisoned until he should have
answered the questions.
The validity of the reasons urged in defence of the action
of the court below is the matter which this court has to consider.
Those reasons are found in that other provision of the act,
which enacts that "no person shall be prosecuted or subjected
to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter or thing concerning which he may testify, or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, before said commission, or in obedience to its subpcena, or either of them, or in
any such case or proceeding ;" and it is claimed that it was
competent for Congress to avoid the plea by a witness of his
constitutional immunity, in proceedings under the act in question, by that provision.
As the apparent purpose of the Constitution was to remove
the immunity from self-accusation from the reach of legislative power, the first and natural impulse is to regard any act
of Congress which authorizes courts to fine and imprison men
for refusing to criminate themselves as obviously void. But
it is the duty of this court, as the final expositor as well of
the Constitution as of the acts of Congress, to dispassionately
consider and determine this question.
It is sometimes said that, if the validity of a statute is
merely doubtful, if its unconstitutionality is not plainly ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

vious, the courts should not be ready to defeat the action of
the legislative branch of the government; and it must be conceded that when such questions arise, under the ordinary
exercise of legislative power, it is plainly the duty of the
courts not to dispense with the operation of laws formally
enacted, unless the constitutional objections are clear and
indisputable.
On the other hand, when the courts are confronted with an
explicit and unambiguous provision of the Constitution, and
when it is proposed to avoid, or modify, or alter the same by
a legislative act, it is their plain duty to enforce the constitutional provision, unless it is clear that such legislative act does
not infringe it in letter or spirit.
Before addressing ourselves immediately to the case in
hand, it may be well to examine the authorities respectively
cited.
The first case in which there was any consideration of this
constitutional provision was the proceeding in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Virginia, in
the year 1807, wherein Aaron Burr was indicted and tried
for treason, and for a misdemeanor in preparing the means
of a military expedition against Mexico, a territory of the
King of Spain, with whom the United States were at peace.
It appears from the report of that case, as made by David
Robertson, and published in two volumes by Hopkins & Earle,
in Philadelphia, in 1808, that, in the first place, an application
was made to Chief Justice Marshall, sitting as a committing
magistrate, by the District Attorney of the United States, to
commif the accused on two charges: 1st, for setting on foot
and providing the means for an expedition against the territories of a nation at peace with the United States; and, 2d,
for committing high treason against the United States. Burr
was committed to answer the first charge only; but, at the
subsequent term of the court, the application to commit him
on a charge of high treason was renewed, testimony to sustain the charge was adduced, Burr was bound over to answer
the charge, and a grand jury was empanelled and charged by
the Chief Justice.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

While the grand jury was considering the case, the District
Attorney called to be sworn Dr. Erick Bollman, with a view
that he should testify before the grand jury; and as it appeared that the facts to which he was expected th testify
might involve him as an accessory, the District Attorney produced and tendered the witness a pardon by the President
of the United States. This pardon the witness declined to
accept, and thereupon argument was had as to the operation
of a pardon which the witness declined to accept, and as
to whether the witness or the court was to be the judge as
to the propriety of answering the questions put. Upon those
points the Chief Justice reserved his decision. Nor does it
appear that he made any decision -probably because Dr.
B611man" went voluntarily before the grand jury and testified. Burr's Trial, vol. 1, pp. 190, 193. Subsequently, while
the grand jury was still considering the case, one Willie was
called and asked whether he had, under instructions from
Aaron Burr, copied a certain paper, which was then exhibited to him. This question the witness refused to answer,
lest he might thereby incriminate himself. The Chief Justice observing that, if the witness was to decide upon this, it
must be on oath, interrogated the witness whether his answering the question would criminate himself, to which he replied
that it might in a certain case. Thereupon the Chief Justice
withheld the point for argument. A full and able argument
was had, and, after consideration, the Chief Justice expressed
himself as follows: "When a question is propounded, it belongs to the court to consider and to decide whether any
direct answer to it can implicate the witness. If this be
decided in the negative, then he may answer it without violating the privilege which is secured to him by law. If a
direct answer to it may criminate himself, then he must be
the sole judge what his answer would be. The court cannot
participate with him in this judgment; because they cannot
decide on the effect of his answer without knowing what it
would be; and a disclosure of that fact to the judges would
strip him of the privileges which the law allows, and which
he claims. It follows, necessarily, then, from this state of

OCTOBER TEkX, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

things, that if the question be of such a description that an
answer to it may or may not criminate the witness, according
to the purport of that answer, it must rest with himself, who
alone can tell what it would be, to answer the question or not.
If, in such a case, he say, upon his oath, that his answer would
criminate himself, the court can demand no other testimony
of the fact. If the declaration be untrue, it is in conscience
and in law as much a perjury as if he had declared any other
untruth upon his oath; as it is one of those cases in whichthe rule of law must be abandoned, or the oath of the witness
be received. The counsel for the United States have also
-laid down this rule, according to their understanding of it,'
but they appear to the court to have made it as much too
narrow as the counsel for the witness have made it too broad.
According to their statement, a witness can never refuse to
answer any question, unless that .answer, unconnected with
other testimony, would be sufficient to convict him of a crime.
This would be rendering the rule almost perfectly worthless. iMany links frequently compose that chain of testimony
which is necessary to convict any individual of a crime. It
appears to the court to be the true sense of the rule that no
witness is compellable to furnish any one of them against
himself. It is certainly not only a possible, but a probable,
case, that a witness, by disclosing a single fact, may complete
the testimony against himself, and to every effectual purpose
accuse himself as entirely as he would by stating every circumstance which would be required for his conviction, That
fact of itself might be unavailing; but all other facts without
it might be insufficient. While that remains concealed within"
his own bosom he is safe; but draw it from thence, and he
is exposed to a prosecution. The rule which declares that
no man is compelled to accuse himself, would most obviously
be infringed by compelling a witness to disclose a fact of this
description. What testimony may be possessed, or is attainable, against any individual, the court can never know. It
would seem, then, that the' court ought never to compel a
witness to give an answer which discloses a fact that might
form a necessary and essential part of a crime, which is pun-

BROWNZ1 v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiiras, Gray, White, JJ.

ishable by the laws.

.

.

.

In such a case, the witness

must himself judge what his answer will be; and if he say,
on oath, that he cannot answer without accusing himself, he
cannot be compelled to answer." 1 Burr's Trial, 241, 245.
In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, there came into
question the validity of the fifth section of the act of June 22,
1874, c. 391, 18 Stat. 186, wherein it was provided that "in all
suits and proceedings other than criminal arising under any of
the revenue laws of the United States, the attorney representing the government, whenever in his belief any business book,
invoice or paper belonging to, or under the control of, the
defendant or claimant, will tend to prove any allegation made
by the United States, may make a written motion, particularly
describing such book, invoice or paper, and setting forth the
allegation which he expects to prove; and thereupon the
court in which suit or proceeding is pending may, at its discretion, issue a notice to the defendant or claimant to produce
such book, invoice or paper in court, at a day and hour to be
specified in said notice, which, together with a copy of said
motion, shall be served formally on the defendant or claimant
by the United States marshal by delivering to him a certified
copy thereof, or otherwise serving the same as original notices
of suits in the same court are served; and if the defendant or
claimant shall fail or refuse to produce such book, invoice or
paper, in obedience to such notice, the allegations stated in the
said motion shall be taken as confessed, unless his failure or
refusal shall be explained to the satisfaction of the court."
This section was held to be unconstitutional and void as
applied to suits for penalties, or to establish a forfeiture of the
party's goods, as being repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments of the Constitution.
It was contended on behalf of the government that the
act of February 25, 1868, c. 13, 15 Stat. 37, whereby it was
enacted that "no answer or other pleading of any party, and
no discovery, or evidence obtained by means of any judicial
proceeding from any party or witness in this or any foreign
country, shall be given in evidence or in any manner used
against such party or witness, or his property or estate, in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

court of the United States, or in any proceeding by or before
any officer of the United States in respect to any crime, or
for the enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture by reason of
any act or omission of such party or witness," relieved the act
of June 22, 1874, of the objections made. But this court said,
by Mr. Justice Bradley, (p. 632,) "No doubt it was supposed
that in this new form, couched as it was in almost the language of the fifteenth section of the old Judiciary Act, except
leaving out the restriction to cases in which the court of chancery would decree a discovery, it would be free from constitutional objection. But we think it has been made to appear
that this result has not been attained, and that the law, though
speciously worded, is still obnoxious to the prohibition of the
Fourth Amendment of the Constitution as well as of the
Fifth."
Other observations made by Ir. Justice Bradley in that
case are worthy to be quoted:
"As therefore suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred by
the commission of offences against the law are of this quasicriminal nature, we think that they are within the reason of
criminal proceedings for all the purposes of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, and of that portion of the Fifth
Amendment which declares that no person shall be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself; and we
are further of opinion that a compulsory production of the
private books and papers of the owner of goods sought to be
forfeited in such a suit is compelling him to be a witness
against himself within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment
to the Constitution, and is the equivalent of a search and seizure - and an unreasonable search and seizure - -within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment. Though the proceeding
in question is divested of many of the aggravating incidents
of actual search and seizure, yet, as before said, it contains
their substance and essence, and effects their substantial purpose. It may be that it is the obnoxious thing in its mildest
and least repulsive form; but illegitimate and unconstitutional
practices get their first footing in that way, namely, by silent
approaches and slight deviations from legal modes of proced-

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

ure. This can only be obviated by adhering to the rule that
constitutional provisions for the security of person and property should be liberally construed. A close and literal construction deprives them of half their efficacy, and leads to
gradual depreciation of the right as if it consisted more in
sound than in substance. It is the duty of courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any
stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto should be obsta
principii. We have no doubt that the legislative body is
actuated by the same motives; but the vast accumulation
of public business brought before it sometimes prevents it,
on a first presentation, from noticing objections which become developed by time and the practical application of
the objectionable law." 116 U. S. 634, 635.
In the recent case of Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S.
547, there was a proceeding before a grand jury to investigate certain alleged violations of the act to regulate commerce, and one Charles Counselman, having appeared before
the grand jury and been sworn, declined to answer certain
questions put to him, on the ground that the answers might
tend to criminate him. The District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, after a hearing,
adjudged Counselman to be in contempt of court, and made
an order fining him, and directing that he be kept in custody
by the marshal until he should have answered said questions.
Thereupon Counselman filed a petition in the Circuit Court of
the United States, setting forth the facts, and praying for a
writ of haleabs corpus. That court held that the District
Court was in the exercise of its lawful authority in doing
what it had done, dismissed Counselman's petition, and remanded him to the custody of the marshal. 44 Fed. Rep.
268. An appeal was taken to this court, by which the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the cause was
remanded to that court with a direction to discharge the
appellant fron' custody. Mr. Justice Biatchford, in delivering the opinion of the court, made a careful review of the
adjudged cases, including several decisions in States where
there is a like constitutional provision to that contained in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

the Federal Constitution, and where attempts had been made
by legislation to avoid the constitutional provision by substituting provisions relieving the witness from future criminal
prosecution. It is needless to here examine those cases.
The contention there made on behalf of the government
was that a witness is not entitled to plead the privilege of
silence, except in a criminal case against himself; but this
court said:
"Such is not the language of the Constitution. Its provision is that no person shall be compelled in any criminal case
to be a witness against himself. This provision must have a
broad construction in favor of the right which it was intended
to secure. The matter under investigation by the grand jury
in this case was a criminal matter, to inquire whether there
had been a criminal violation of the Interstate Commerce Act.
If Counselman had been guilty of the matters inquired of in
the questions which he refused to answer, he himself was liable to criminal prosecution under the act. The case before
the grand jury was, therefore, a criminal case. The reason
given by Counselman for his refusal to answer the questions
was that his answers might tend to criminate him, and showed
that his apprehension was that, if he answered the questions
truly and fully, (as he was bound to do if he should answer
them at all,) the answers might show that he had committed
a crime against the Interstate Commerce Act, for which he
might be prosecuted. His answers, therefore, would be testimony against himself, and he would be compelled to give them
in a criminal case.
"It is impossible that the meaning of the constitutional provision can only be, that a person shall not be compelled to be
a witness against himself in a criminal prosecution against
himself. It would doubtless cover such cases; but it is not
limited to them. The object was to insure that a person
should not be compelled, when acting as a witness in any
investigation, to give testimony which might tend to show
that he had himself committed a crime. The privilege is limited to criminal matters, but it is as broad as the mischief
against which it seeks to guard." 14:2 U. S. 562.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

To the argument that section 860 of the Revised Statutes,
which provides that "no pleading of a party, nor any discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness by means
of a judicial proceeding in this or any foreign country, shall
be given in evidence, or in any manner used against him or
his property or estate, in any court of the United States in
any criminal proceeding, or for the enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture," removed the constitutional privilege of
Counselman, the court said: "That section must be construed
as declaring that no evidence obtained from a witness by
means of a judicial proceeding shall be given in evidence, or
in any manner used against him or his property or estate, in
any court of the United States, in any criminal proceeding,
or for the enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture.
This, of course, protected him against the use of his testimony against him or his property in any prosecution against
him or his property, in any criminal proceeding in a court of
the United States. But it had only that effect. It could not,
and would not, prevent the use of his testimony to search
out other testimony to be used in evidence against him or his
property in a criminal proceeding in such court. It could not
prevent the obtaining and the use of witnesses and evidence
which should be attributable directly to the testimony he
might give under compulsion, and on which he might be convicted, when otherwise, and if he had refused to answer, he
could not possibly have been convicted.
"The constitutional provision distinctly declares that a
person shall not 'be compelled in any criminal case to be a
witness against himself;' and the protection of section 860
is not coextensive with the constitutional provision. Legislation cannot detract from the privilege afforded by the Constitution. It would be quite another thing if the Constitution
had provided that no person shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself, unless it should be provided by statute that criminating evidence extracted from a
witness against his will should not be used against him. But
a mere act of Congress cannot amend the Constitution, even if
it should engraft thereon such a proviso." 142 U. S. 564, 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

It is, however, now contended, and that is the novel feature
of the present case, that the following provision in the act of
February 11, 1893, removes the constitutional difficulty: "But
no person shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or
forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter or
thing, concerning which he may testify, or produce evidence,
documentary or otherwise, before said commission." And it
is surmised that this proviso was enacted in view of a suggestion to that effect in the opinion in the Counselman case.
It is, indeed, true that Mr. Justice Blatchford did say that
"no statute which leaves the party or witness subject to
prosecution after he answers the criminating question put
to him, can have the effect of supplanting the privilege conferred by the Constitution of the United States. Section 860
of the Revised Statutes does not supply a complete protection
from all the perils against which the constitutional prohibition
was designed to guard, and is not a full substitute for that prohibition. In view of the constitutional provision, a statutory
enactment, to be valid, must afford absolute immunity against
future prosecution for the offence to which the question
relates;" and it may be inferred from this language- that
there might be framed a legislative substitute for the constitutional privilege which would legally empower a court to
compel an unwilling witness to criminate himself. But the
case did not call for such expression of opinion, nor did Mr.
Justice Blatcbford undertake to suggest the form of such an
enactment. Indeed, such a suggestion would not have comported with his previous remarks, above cited, that "legislation cannot detract from the privilege afforded by the Constitution. It would be quite another thing if the Constitution
had provided that no person shall be- compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself, unless it should be
provided by statute that criminating evidence extracted from
a witness against his will should not be used against him.
But a mere act of Congress cannot amend the 'Constitution,
even if it should engraft thereon such a proviso."
Is, then, the undeniable repugnancy that exists between the
constitutional guaranty and the compulsory provisions of the

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

act of February 11, 1893, overcome by the proviso relieving
the witness from prosecution and from any penalty or forfeiture "for or on account of any transaction, matter or thing,
concerning which he may testify or produce evidence?"
As already said, the very fact that the founders of our
institutions, by making the immunity an express provision of
the Constitution, disclosed an intention to protect it from
legislative attack, creates a presumption against any act professing to dispense with the constitutional 'privilege. It may
not be said that, by no form of enactment, can Congress supply an adequate substitute, but doubtfulness of its entire
sufficiency, uncertainty of its meaning and effect, will be fatal
defects.
What, then, is meant by the clause in this act that "no
person shall beprosecuted . . . for or on account of any
transaction, matter or thing, concerning which he may testify,
or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise? " iHow possibly can effect be given to this pr6vision, if taken literally?
If a given person is charged with a wilful violation of the
Interstate Commerce Act, how can the prosecuting officers or
the grand juries know whether he has been examined as a
witness concerning the same matter before the commission or
some court? Nor can the accused himself necessarily know
what particular charge has been brought against him, until an
indictment has been found. But when an indictment has been
found, and the accused has been called upon to plead to it, he
assuredly has been prosecuted. So that all that can be said is,
that the witness is not protected, by the provision in question,
from being prosecuted, but that he has been furnished with a
good plea to the indictment, which will secure his acquittal.
But is that true? Not unless the plea is sustained by competent evidence. His condition, then, is that he has been prosecuted, been compelled, presumably, to furnish bail, and put
to the trouble and expense of employing counsel and furnishina the evidence to make good his plea. It is no reply to this
to say that his condition, in those respects, is no worse than
that of any other innocent man, who may be wrongfully
charged. The latter has not been compelled, on penalty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

fine and imprisonment, to disclose under oath facts which have
furnished a clue to the offence with which he is charged.
Nor is it'a matter of perfect assurance that a person who
has compulsorily testified, before the commission, grand jury,
or court, will be able, if subsequently indicted for some matter
or thing concerning which he testified, to procure the evidence
that will be necessary to maintain his plea. No provision is
made in the law itself for the preservation of the evidence.
Witnesses may die or become insane, and papers and records
may be destroyed by accident or design.
Again, what is the meaning of the clause of the act that
"no person so testifying shall be exempt from prosecution and
punishment for perjury committed in so testifying?" The
implication would seem to be that, except for such a clause,
perjury could not be imputed to a witness who had been compelled to so testify. However that may be, and whether or
not the clause is surplusage, it compels attention to the unfortunate situation in which the witness is placed by the provisions of this act. If he declines to testify on the ground that
his answer may incriminate himself, he is fined and imprisoned.
If he submits to answer, he is liable to be indicted for perjury by either or both of the parties to the controversy. His
position in this respect is not that of ordinary witnesses testifying under the compulsion of a subpcena. His case is that
of a person who is exempted by the Constitution from testifying at all in the matter. He is told, by the act of Congress,
that he must nevertheless testify, but that he shall be protected
from any prosecution, penalty or forfeiture by reason of so
testifying. But he is subjected to the hazard of a charge of
perjury, whether such charge be rightfully or wrongfully
made. It does not do to say that other witnesses may be so
charged, because if the privilege of silence, under the constitutional immunity, had not been taken away, this witness would
not have testified, and could not have been subjected to a
charge of perjury.
Another danger to which the witness is subjected by the
withdrawal of the constitutional safeguard is that of a prosecution in the state courts. The same act or transaction

BROWN v. WALKER.Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

which may be a violation of the Interstate Commerce Act
may also be an offence against a state law.

Thus, in the

present case, the ihquiry was as to supposed. rebates on
freight charges. Such payments would have been in disre-.
gard of the Federal statute, but a full disclosure of all the
attendant facts (and if he testify at all he must answer fully)
might disclose that the witness had been guilty of embezzling
the moneys entrusted to him for that purpose; or it might
have been disclosed that he had made false entries in the
books of the state corporation, in whose employ h6 was acting. These acts would be crimes against the State, for which
he might be indicted and punished, and he may have furnished, by his testimony in the Federal court or before the
commission, the very facts or, at least, clues thereto which
led to his prosecution.
It is, indeed, claimed that the provisions under consideration would extend to the state courts and 'might be relied on
therein as an answer to such an indictment. We are unable
to accede to such a suggestion. As Congress cannot create
state courts, nor establish the ordinary rules of property and
of contracts, nor denounce penalties for crimes and offences
against the States, so it cannot prescribe rules of proceeding
for the state courts. The cases of Stewart v. Zahn, 11 Wall.
493; United States v. WViley, 11 Wall. 508, and Mayfield v.
Richards, 115 U. S. 137, are referred to as sustaining the
proposition. Those were cases defining the scope and effect
of the act of Congress of June 11, 1864, providing that as to
actions which should accrue, during the existence of the rebellion, against persons who could not be served with process
by reason of the war, the time when such persons were beyond the reach of process should not be taken or deemed to
be any part of the time limited by law for the commencement
of such actions. And it was held that it was the evident intention of Congress that the act was to apply to cases in state
as well as in Federal courts, and as to the objection that Congress had no power to lay down rules of action for the state
courts, it was held that the act in question was within the
war power as an act to remedy an evil which was one of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

consequences of the war, Mr. Justice Swayne saying: The war
"power is not limited to victories in the field and the dispersion of the insurgent forces. It carries with it inherently the
power to guard against the immediate renewal of the conflict,
and to remedy the evils which have arisen from its rise and
progress. This act falls within the latter category. The
power to pass it is necessarily implied from the powers to
make war and suppress insurrections. It is a beneficent exercise of this authority. It only applies coercively the principle
of the law of nations, which ought to work the same results
in the courts of all the rebellious States without the intervention of this enactment." 11 Wall. 507.
Whatever may be thought of these cases, and of the reasoning on which they proceed, it is plain that they are not applicable to the present statute. The latter does not in express
terms, nor by necessary implication, extend to the state courts;
and, if it did, it could not be sustained as an exercise of the
war power. On this part of the subject it will be sufficient to
cite the language of Chief Justice Marshall in giving the opinion of the court in the case of Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet.
243, 247 :
"The judgment brought up by this writ of error having
been rendered by the court of a State, this tribunal can exercise no jurisdiction over it, unless it be shown to come within
the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
"The plaintiff in error contends that it comes within that
clause in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, which
inhibits the taking of private property for public use without
just compensation. He insists that this Amendment, being in
favor of the liberty of the citizen, ought to be so construed as
to restrain the legislative power of a State, as well as that of
the United States. If this proposition be untrue, the court
can take no jurisdiction of the cause. 'The question thus presented is, we think, of great importance, but not of much
difficulty.
"The Constitution was ordained and established by the
people of the United States for themselves, for their own government, and not for the government of the individual States.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

Each State established a constitution for itself, and, in that
constitution, provided such limitations and restrictions on the
powers of its particular government as its judgment dictated.
The people of the United States framed such a government
for the United States as they supposed best adapted to their
situation and best calculated to promote their interests. The
powers they conferred on this government were to be exercised by itself;, and the limitations on power, if expressed in
general terms, are naturally and, we think, necessarily applicable to the government created by the instrument. They
are limitations of power granted in the instrument itself
not of distinct governments framed by different persons and
for different purposes.
"If these propositions be correct, the Fifth Amendment
must be understood as restraining the power of the general
government, not as applicable to the States. In their several
constitutions they have imposed such restriction on their
respective governments as their own wisdom suggested; such
as they deemed most proper for themselves. It is a subject
on which they judge exclusively, and with which others interfere no further than they are supposed to have a common
interest. . . . We are of opinion that the provision in the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, declaring that private
property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation, is intended solely as a limitation on the exercise of
power by the government of the United States, and is not
applicable to the legislation of the States."
This result has never since been questioned. As, then, the
provision of the Constitution of the United States which
protects witnesses from self-incrimination cannot be invoked
in a state court, so neither can the congressional substitute
therefor.
It is urged that, even if the state courts would not be compelled to respect the saving clause of the Federal statute, in
respect to crimes against the State, yet that such a jeopardy
is too remote to be considered. The force of this contention
is not perceived. On the contrary, such is the nature of the
commerce which is controlled by the Interstate Commerce law,
VOL. cLxx-40

OCTOBER TER-,

1895.

Dissenting Opinion: -Shims, Gray, White, JJ.

so intimately involved are the movements of trade and transportation, as well within as between the States, that just such
questions as those which are now considered may be naturally
expected to frequently arise.
It is said that the constitutional protection is solely against
prosecutions of the government that grants it, and that, in
this case, the questions asked the witness related exclusively
io matters of interstate commerce, in respect of which there
can be but one sovereign; that his refusal to answer related
to his fear of punishment by t]hat sovereign, and to nothing
else; and that no answer the witness could make could possibly tend to criminate him under the laws of any other government, be it foreign or state.
But, as we have seen, it is entirely within the range of
probable events that the very same act or transaction may
constitute a crime or offence against both governments, state
and Federal. This was manifested in the case of Ex parte
Fonda,117 U. S. 516. This was an original application to this
cotrt for a writ of habeas corpus by one who vas a clerk in a
national. bank, and. who alleged in his petition that he had
been convicted in one of the courts of Michigan under a statute of that State, and sentenced to imprisonment for having
embezzled the funds of that banking institution. The principal ground upon which he asked for a writ of habeas corpus
and for his discharge from custody was that the offence for
which he was tried was covered by the statutes of the United
States, and was therefore exclusively cognizable by the Federal courts. But this court refused the application, without,
however, deciding whether the same act was or was not an
offence against both governments. A similar question was
presented in -Yew York v. Eno, 155 tT. S. 89, 98, and these
observations were made by Mr. Justice Harlan, who delivered
the opinion of the court: "Whether the offences described in
the indictment against Eno are offences against the State of
New York and punishable under its laws, or are made by,
existing statutes offences also against the United States and
are exclusively cognizable by courts of the United States;
and whether the same acts on the part of the accused may

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Gray, White, JJ.

be offences against both the national and state governments
and punishable in the judicial tribunals of each government,
without infringing upon the constitutional guaranty against
being put twice in jeopardy for the same offence; these are
questions which the state court of original jurisdiction is
competent to decide in the first instance;" and accordingly
the writ of habeas corpus was dismissed, and the accused was
remanded to the custody of the state authorities. But, as
already observed, not only may the same act be a common
offence to both governments, but the disclosures compulsively
made in one proceeding may give clues and hints which may
be subsequently used against the witness in another, to the
loss of his liberty- and property.
Much stress was laid in the argument on the supposed
importance of this provision in enabling the. commission and
the courts to enforce the salutary provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act. This, at the best, is a dangerous argument,
and should not be listened to by a court, to the detriment of
the constitutional rights of the citizen. If, indeed, experience
has shown, or shall .show, that one or more of the pr.ovisions
of the Constitution has become unsuited to affairs as they
now exist, and unduly fetters the courts in the enforcement
of useful laws, the remedy must be found in the right of the
nation to amend the fundamental law, and not in appeals to
the courts to substitute for a constitutional guaranty the
doubtful and uncertain provisions of an experimental statute.
It is certainly speaking within bounds to say that the effect
of the provision in question, as a protection to the witness, is
purely conjectural. iNo court can forsee all the results and
consequences that may follow from enforcing this law in any
given case. It is quite certain that the witness is compelled
to testify against himself. Can any court be certain that a
sure and sufficient substitute for the constitutional immunity
has been supplied by this act; and if there be room for reasonable doubt, is not the conclusion an obvious and necessary
one?
It is worthy of observation that opposite views of the validity of this provision have been expressed in the only two cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

in which the question has arisen in the Circuit Court-one, in
the case of the United States v. James, 60 Fed. Rep. 257, where
the act was held void; the other, the present case. In most
of the cases cited, wherein state courts have passed upon analogous questions, and have upheld the sufficiency of a statute
dispensing with the constitutional immunity, there have been
dissenting judges.
A final observation, which ought not to be necessary, but
which seems to be called for by the tenor of some of the arguments that have been pressed on the court, is that the constitutional privilege was intended as a shield for the innocent
as well as for the guilty. A moment's thought will show
that a perfectly innocent person may expose himself to accusation, and even condemnation, by being compelled to disclose
facts and circumstances known only to himself, but which,
when once disclosed, he may be entirely unable to explain as
consistent with innocence.
But surely no apology for the Constitution, as it exists, is
called for. The task of the courts is performed if the Constitution is sustained in its entirety, in its letter and spirit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed and
the cause remanded with directions to discharge the accused
from custody.
19R. JUsTiOE FIELT dissenting.

I am unable to concur with my associates in the affirmance
of the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The appellant aftd petitioner had been subpoenaed as a witness before the grand jury, called at a term of the District
Court of the same district, to testify with reference to a
charge, under investigation by that body, against certain officers and agents of the Allegheny Valley Railroad Company,
of having violated certain provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. Several interrogatories were addressed by the
grand jury to the witness, which he refused to answer on the
ground that his answers might tend to criminate him. On a

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

rule to show cause. why he should not be punished for a contempt, and be compelled to. answer, he invoked his constitutional privilege of silence.
It is stated in the brief of counsel that no question was
raised as to the good faith of the appellant, the petitioner, in
invoking this privilege, but the ground was taken and held to
be sufficient, that under the statute of Congress of February
11, 1893, he was bound to answer the questions. On his still
persisting in his refusal, he was adjudged guilty of contempt
and committed. He then sued -out a writ of abtas copus
from the Circuit Court, and on the production of his body
before that court and the return of the marshal, the same
position was taken and the statute was held valid and sufficient to require him to answer, and he was accordingly remanded. From the order remanding him and thus adjudging
the statute to be valid and constitutional in requiring the witness to answer the inquiries propounded to him, notwithstanding his invoking the privilege of exemption from answering
when, upon his statement, his answer would tend to criminate
himself, the petitioner appealed to this court.
The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States declares that no person shall be compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself. The act of Congress
of February 11; 1893, entitled "An act in relation to testimony before the Interstate Commerce Commission, and in
cases or proceedings under or connected with an act entitled
IAn act to regulate commerce,' approved February 4, 1887,
and amendments thereto," provides as follows: "That no
person shall be excused from attending and testifying or from
producing books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements and documents before the Interstate Commerce Commission, or in
obedience to the subpcena of the Commission, whether such
subpcena be signed or issued by one or more commissioners,
or in any cause or proceeding, criminal or otherwise, based
upon or growing out of any alleged violation of the act of
Congress, entitled 'An act to regulate commerce,' approved
February 4, 1887, or of any amendment thereof on the ground
or for the reason that the testimony or evidence, documentary

OCTObER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

or otherwise, required of him may tend to criminate him or
subject him to a penalty or forfeiture. But no person shall
be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or
on account of any transaction, matter or thing, concerning
which he may testify, or produce evidence, documentary or
otherwise, before said Commission or in obedience to its subpcena, or the subpoena of either of them, or in any such case
or proceeding: P'ovided, That no person so testifying shall
be exempt from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed in so testifying. Any person who shall neglect or refuse to attend and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or
t6 produce books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements and
documents required if in his power to do so, in obedience to
the subpoena or lawful requirement of the Commission, shall
be guilty of an offence, and upon conviction thereof by a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be punished by fine not less
than one hundred dollars nor more than five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment2'
The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States gives absolute protection to a person called as a witness
in a criminal case against the compulsory enforcement of any
criminating testimony against himself. He is not only protected from any criminating testimony against himself relating to the offence under investigation, but- also relating to
any act which may lead to a criminal prosecution therefor.
No substitute for the protection contemplated by the amendment would be sufficient were its operation less extensive and
efficient.
The constitutional amendment contemplates that the witness shall be shielded from prosecution by reason of any
expressions forced from him whilst he was a witness in a
criminal case. It was intended that against such attempted
enforcement he might invoke, if desired, and obtain, the
shield of absolute silence. No different protection from that
afforded by the Amendment can be substituted in place of it.
The force and extent of the constitutional guarantee are in
no respect to be weakened or modified, and the like consider-

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ation may be urged with reference to all the clauses and provisions of the Constitution designed for the peace and security
of the citizen in the enjoyment of rights or privileges which
the Constitution. intended to grant and protect. No phrases
or words of any provision, securing such rights or privileges
to the citizen, in the Constitution are to be qualified, limited
or frittered away. All are to be construed liberally that
they may have the widest and most ample effect.
No compromise of phrases can be made by which one of
less sweeping character and less protective force in its influences can be substituted for any of them. The citizen cannot
be denied the protection of absolute silence which, he may
invoke, not only with reference to the offence charged, but
with respect to any act of criminality which may be suggested.
The constitutional guarantee is not fully secured by simply
exempting the witness from prosecution for the designated
offence involved in his answer as a witness. It extends to
exemption from not only prosecution for the offence under
consideration but from prosecution for any offence to which
the testimony produced may lead.
The witness is entitled to the shield of absolute silence
respecting either. It thus exempts him from prosecution
beyond the protection conferred by the act of Congress. It
exempts him where the statute might subject him to selfincrimination.
The amendment also protects him from all compulsory
testimony which would expose him to infamy and disgrace,
though the facts disclosed might not lead to a criminal prosecution. It is contended, indeed, that it was not the object
of the constitutional safeguard to protect the witness against
infamy and disgrace. It is urged that its sole purpose was to
protect him against incriminating testimony with reference
to the offence under prosecution. But I do not agree that
such limited protection was all that was secured. As stated
by counsel of the appellant, "it is entirely possible, and certainly not impossible, that the framers of the Constitution
reasoned that in bestowing upon witnesses in criminal cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

the privilege of silence when in danger of self-incrimination,
they would at the same time save him in all such cases from
the shame and infamy of confessing disgraceful crimes and
thus preserve to him some measure of self-respect. . .
It is true, as counsel observes, that "both the safeguard of the
Constitution and the common law rule spring alike from that
sentiment of personal se f-respect, liberty, independence and
dignity which has inhabited the breasts of English speaking
peoples for centuries, and to save which they have always
been ready to sacrifice many governmental facilities and conveniences. In scarcely anything has that sentiment been
more manifest than in the abhorrence felt at the legal compulsion upon witnesses to make concessions which must cover
the witness with lasting shame and leave him degraded both
in his own eyes and those of others. What can be more
abhorrent . . . than to compel a man wh!o has fought
his way from obscurity to dignity and honor to reveal crimes
of which'he had repented and of which the world was
ignorant?"
This court has declared, as stated, that "no attempted substitute for the constitutional safeguard is sufficient unless it is
a complete substitute. Such is not the nature and effect of
this statute of Congress under consideration. A witness, as
observed by counsel, called upon to testify to something
which will ificriminate him, claims the benefit of the safeguard; he is told that the statute fully protects him against
prosecution for his crime; ' but,' he says, ' it leaves, me covered
with infamy and unable to associate with my fellows;' he is
then told that under the rule of the common law he would not
have been protected against mere infamy, and that the constitutional provision does not assume to protect against infamy alone, and that it should not be supposed that its object
was to protect against infamy even when associated with crime.
But he answers: 'I am not claiming any common law privilege, but this particular constitutional safeguard. What its
purpose was does not matter. It saves me from infamy, and
you furnish me with no equivalent, unless by such equivalent
I am equally saved from infamy.'" And it is very justly

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, 3.

urged that "a statute is not a full equivalent under which a
witness may be compelled to cover himself -with the infamy
of a crime, even though he may be armed with a protection
against its merely penal consequences."
In Respublica v. Gibbs, 3 Yeates, 429, in the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, an indictment was found against the defendant for violation of the law passed in 1799 to regulate the
general elections within the Commonwealth. One Benjamin
Gibbs, the father of the defendant, a blind and aged man,
entitled as an elector, being both a native and an elector
above thirty years, who had paid taxes for many years, was
led to the election ground by his son and offered his vote.
He was told that previous to his vote being received he must
answer upon oath or affirmation the following questions, to
wit: "Did you at all times during the late revolution continue in allegiance to this State or some one of the United
States, or did you join the British forces, or take the oath of
allegiance to the King of Great Britain, and if so, at what
period? Have you ever been attainted of high treason against
this Commonwealth, and if you have, has the attainder been
reversed, or have you received a pardon ?"
In the litigation which followed these proceedings counsel
stated that the constitution of Pennsylvania, formed on the
28th of September, 1776, directs that "no man can be compelled to give evidence against himself," and that the same
words were repeated in the constitution *of 1790. And it was
contended that the true meaning of the constitution and law
was that no question should be asked a person, the answer to
which may tend to charge him either with a crime or bring
him into disgrace or infamy.
The Chief Justice, Shippen, in his charge of the court,
among other things, said: "It has been objected that the
questions propounded to the electors contravene an established
principle of law. The maxim is nemo tenetur seipsum accusare (seu prodere). It (the maxim) is founded on the best
policy, and runs throughout our whole system of jurisprudence. It is the uniform practice of courts of justice as to
witnesses and jurors. It is considered cruel and unjust to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

propose questions which may tend to criminate the party.
And so jealous have the legislature of this Commonwealth
been of this mode of discovery of facts that they have refused their assent to a bill brought in to compel persons to
disclose on oath papers as well as facts relating to questions
of mere property. And may we not justly suppose, that
they would not be less jealous of securing our citizens against
this mode of self-accusation? The words accusare orprodere
are general terms, and their sense is not confined to cases
where the answers to the questions proposed would induce
to the punishment of the party; if they would involve him
in shame or reproach, he is under no obligation to answer
them. The avowed object of putting them is to show that
the party is under a legal disability to elect or be elected;
and they might create an incapacity to take either by purchase or descent, to be a witness or juror, etc. We are all
clear on this point, that the inspectors were not justified in
proposing the question objected to, though it is probable they
did not wrong intentionally. Nevertheless, if by exacting
an illegal oath the election was obstructed or interrupted, it
seems most reasonable to attribute it to them."
And in Galbreath and others v. Eiohelberger, reported in

that volume, 3 Yeates, 515, it was held by the same court
that "no one will be compelled to be sworn as a witness whose testimony tends to accuse himself of an immoral
act."
It is conceded as an established doctrine, universally assented to, that a witness claiming his constitutional privilege
cannot be questioned concerning the way in which he fears
he may incriminate himself, or, at least, only so far as may
be needed to satisfy the court that he is making his claim in
good faith, and not as a pretext. Fisher v. ]2onalds, 12 C. 13.
762; Adams v. Lloyd, 3 H. & N. 351; Regina v. Boyes, 7 Jur.
N. S. Part 1, 1158; 22 Am. Law Rev. 21, note, p. 28; 2 Orim.
Law Mag. 645, note, 654.
To establish such good faith on the part of the witness in
claiming his constitutional privilege of exemption -from selfincrimination, where he is examined as a witness in a criminal

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

case, he may be questioned as to his apprehension of criminating himself by his answer, but no further.
The position that if witnesses are allowed to assert an exemption from answering questions when in their opinion such
answers may tend to incriminate them, the proof of offence
like those prescribed by the Interstate Commerce act will
be difficult and probably impossible - ought not to have a
feather's weight against the abuses which would follow necessarily the enforcement of criminating testimony. The abuses
and perversions of sound principles which would creep into
the law by yielding to arguments like these-to what is
supposed to be necessary for the public good- cannbt be
better stated than it was by the late Justice Bradley in Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635. Said the learned justice :
"Illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first
footing in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight
deviations from legal modes of procedure. This can only be
obviated by adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of person and property should be liberally construed. A close and literal construction deprives them
of half their effleacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the
right, as if it consisted more in sound than substance. It
is the duty of courts to be watchful for the constitutional
rights of the citizens and against any stealthy encroachments
thereon. Their motto should be obsta principii."
And the same great and learned justice adds:
"The 'freedom of thought, of speech and of the press;
the right to bear arms; exemption from military dictation ;
security of the person and of the home; the right to speedy
and public trial by jury; protection against oppressive bail
and cruel punishment, are, together. with exemption from
self-crimination, the essential and inseparable features of English liberty. Each one of these features had been involved in
the struggle above referred to in England within the century
and a half immediately preceding the adoption of the Constitution, and the contests were fresh in the memories and traditions of the people at that time." Boyd v. The United States,
"116 U. S. 626.

OCTOBER TERMl, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

The act of Congress of February 11, 1893, very materially
qualifies the constitutional privilege of exemption of a witness in a criminal case from testifying, and removes the
security against unreasonable searches and seizures which is
also provided by the Constitution against the exposure of
one's private books and papers.
The Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, which declares
that "the right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers and effects against unreasonable searches an4
seizures, shall not be violated," is equally encroached upon by
the law in question.
The position of the respondent, that the witness can lawfully be compelled to answer on the ground that the act of
Congress in effect abrogates the constitutional privilege, in
providing that the punishment of the alleged offence, in relation to which the witness was sought to be examined, shall
not be imposed in case he answers the interrogatories propounded, is not sound on two grounds: First, because the
statute could not abrogate or in any respect diminish the protection conferred by the constitutional amendment; and,
secondly, because the statute does not purport to abrogate
the offence, but only provides protection against any proceeding to punish it. The constitutional safeguards for security
and liberty cannot be thus dealt with. They must stand as the
Constitution has devised them. They cannot be set aside and
replaced by something else on the ground that the substitute
will probably answer the same purpose. The citizen, as
observed by counsel, is entitled to the very thing which the
language of the Constitution assures to him.
Every one is protected by the common law from compulsory incrimination of himself. This protection is a part of
that general security which the common law affords against
defamation, that is, against malicious and false imputations
upon one's character, as it defends against injurious assaults
upon one's -person, even though the defamation is created by
publication made by himself under compulsion. The defamation arising from self-incrimination may be equally injurious
as if originating purely from the maliciousness of others.

BROWN v. WALKER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

The reprobation of compulsory self-incrimination is an established doctrine of our civilized society. As stated by appellant's counsel, it is the "result of the long struggle between
the opposing forces of the spirit of individual liberty on the
one hand and the collective power of the State on the other."
As such, it should be condemned with great earnestness.
The essential and inherent cruelty of compelling a man to
expose his own guilt is obvious to every one, and needs no
illustration. It is plain to every person who gives the subject
a moment's thought.
A sense of personal degradation in being compelled to
incriminate one's self must create a feeling of abhorrence in
the community at its attempted enforcement.
The counsel of the appellant justly observes on this subject, as on many of the proceedings taken to escape from the
enforcement of the constitutional and legal protection, established to guard a citizen from any unnecessary restraints upon
his person, action or speech, that "the proud sense of personal
independence which is the basis of the most valued qualities
of a free citizen is sustained and cultivated by the consciousness that there are limits which even the State cannot pass in
tearing open the secrets of his bosom. The limit which the
law carefully assigns to the power to make searches and seizures proceeds from the same source."
The doctrine condemning attempts at self-incrimination is
declared in numerous cases. Starkie, in his treatise on Evidence, observes that the rule forbidding such incrimination is
based upon two grounds, one of policy and one of humanity,
"of policy because it would force a witness under a strong
temptation to commit perjury, and of humanity because it
would be to extort a confession by duress, every species and
description of which the law abhors." (Am. ed. pp. 40, 41.)
In United States v. Collins, 1 Woods, 511, Mr. Justice
Bradley said "the immunity was founded upon principles of
public policy and a just regard to the liberties of every citizen." And we have no sympathy for the efforts of any individual or tribunal to weaken or fritter away any of the
provisions of the Constitution, even the least, intended for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

the protection of the private rights of the citizen. Those provisions should receive the construction which would give them
the widest and most beneficent effect intended.
But there is another and conclusive reason against the statute of Congress. It undertakes, in effect, to grant a pardon
in certain cases to offenders against the law, that is, on condition that they will give full answers to certain interrogatories propounded. It declares that the alleged offender shall
not be punished for his offence upon his compliance with a
certain condition. The legal exemption of an individual from
the punishment which the law prescribes for the crime he has
committed is a pardon, by whatever name the act may be
termed. And a pardon is an act of grace which is, so far as
relates to offenders against the United States, the sole prerogative. of the President to grant.
In .Eax parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333, 380, this court, after
stating that the Constitution provides that the President shall
have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against
the United States except in cases of impeachment, says: "The
power thus conferred is unlimited with the exception stated.
It extends to every offence known to the law, and may be
exercised at any time after its commission, either before legal
proceedings are taken, or during their penden~y, or after conviction and judgment. This power of the President is not
subject to legislative control. Congress can neither limit the
effect of his pardon, nor exclude from its exercise any class of
offenders. The benign prerogative of mercy reposed in him
cannot be affected by any legislative restrictions."
Congress cannot grant a pardon. That is an act of grace
which can only be performed by the President. The constitutional privilege invoked by the appellant should have had
full effect, and its influence should not have been weakened in
any respect by the statute which attempted to exercise a prerogative solely possessed by the President.
The order remanding the appellant should, therefor, in my
judgment, be reversed, and an order entered that he be discharged from custody and be set at liberty.

