UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. O'BRIEN.

451

Syllabus.

late or deliver matter to corrupt the morals of the people.
The words "obscene," "lewd" and "lascivious," as used in
the statute, signify that form of immorality which has relation to sexual impurity, and have the same meaning as is
given them at common law in prosecutions for obscene libel.
As the statute is highly penal, it should not be held to embrace language unless it is fairly within its letter and spirit.
Referring to this newspaper article, as found in the record,
it is undeniable that its language is exceedingly coarse and
vulgar, and, as applied to an individual person, plainly libellous. But we cannot perceive in it anything of a lewd, lascivious and obscene tendency, calculated to corrupt and
debauch the mind and morals of those into whose hands it
might fall.
The judgment of the couirt below is reversed and the cause
remanded with instructions to set aside the verdict and
award a new trial.
JUSTICES HARLAN, GRAY, BRowwq,

and WHITE dissented.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. O'BRIEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 119.

Argued and submitted December 18, 1895.-Decided March 2, 1896.

A railroad company is bound to provide suitable and safe materials and
structures in the construction of its road and appurtenances, and if

from a defective construction thereof an injury happen to one of its
servants the company is liable for the injury sustained.
The servant, on his part, undertakes the risks of the employment as far as
they spring from defects incident to the service, but he does not take the
risks of the negligence of the master itself.
The master is not to be held as guaranteeing or warranting absolute safety
under all circumstances, but is bound to exercise the care which the
exigency reasonably demands in furnishing proper roadbed, track, and
other structures, including sufficient culverts for the escape of water
collected and accumulated by embankments and excavations.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

There are cases in which, if the employ6 knows of the risk and the danger
attendant upon it, he may be held to have taken the hazard by accepting
or continuing in the employment; but this case, as left to the jury under
the particular facts, is not one of them.

THIs was an action brought by Nora O'Brien against the
Union Pacific Railway Company, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Colorado, to recover damages for the death of her
husband, John O'Brien, who was in the employment of the
defendant as a locomotive engineer, running on the South
Park division of the company's line, and was killed by the
derailment of his engine. The evidence tended to show that
at the time of' his death O'Brien, who had been an engineer
upon the road for seven or eight years, was bringing a freight
train of twenty-three cars from Como, Colorado, to Denver,
and was running through that part of the mountains known
as Platte Cafion; that O'Brien left Como at seven or eight
o'clock on the evening of September 3, 1890, and that the accident occurred at one o'clock in the morning of September 4;
that the line of railway followed the course of the South
Platte River, and that there were numerous cuts thereon
caused by the intersection of the line with the spurs projecting from the foot hills along which the line was built; that
the locomotive was derailed by reason of sand and gravel
which had been deposited on the track to a depth of some
seven or eight inches and to the extent of from ten to twenty
feet; that this deposit was in a cut, approached by a curve to
the left, and then curving to the right as the track entered
the cut, a double curve; that the river bank of the cut was
about seven or eight feet high, the other bank being much
higher and very steep, sloping back up the mountain side;
that down the upper bank ran a narrow gully -which in rainy
weather brought down water, carrying sand and disintegrated
rock; that this gully had had an outlet into the river before
the track was constructed across it; that there was no opening
or culvert under the railroad track through which the water
and material brought down could escape; that a small ditch
ran alongside the roadbed, but if the water coming down was
greater in quantity than this ditch could carry, then the sur-

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. O'BRIEN.

453

Statement of the Case.

plus would run over and upon the tracks of the railroad; and
that rain had fallen the evening previous to the accident, and
the water rushing down the gully had deposited this mass of
sand and gravel upon the track. There was some evidence
that the gully was narrow, crooked, and concealed by the
hills.
One Hall, a locomotive engineer, familiar with the road,
testified that there were many cuts on the line; that sand
was frequently found thereon in several places; that there
were usually rains about the latter part of August or September, and that in rainy weather, on account of the steepness of
the mountains, more or less material would be deposited on
the track. Defendant then propounded this question on crossexamination, "Are the engineers here aware of that fact?"
to which plaintiff's counsel interposed an objection, which was
sustained, and defendant excepted. The witness had also
testified that a culvert would have added to the safety of
this cut, and was asked this question by defendant: "You
said you thought the culvert would make it much safer, but
is not that cut constructed there, and the water run out of it
exactly as the cuts are ordinarily constructed on roads running
through such places?"
The question was objected to, the
objection sustained, and defendant excepted.
George Warnick, the locoinotive fireman who was on the
engine when the accident happened, gave evidence on defendant's behalf tending to show negligence on the part of
deceased, and was asked on cross-examination whether he
had in answer to certain specified questions put to him at the
hospital on the Sunday following stated that neither he nor
the engineer was to blame for the accident. This he denied,
and leading questions were permitted to be propounded to a
witness called in rebuttal to contradict him, to which exceptions were saved.
Defendant asked the court to give the jury the following
instructions:
"1. The court is asked to instruct the jury that the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to show that the accident
occurred by reason of the negligence of the defendants, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

that the plaintiff was in the exercise of due care at the time
of the accident, and that due care in such a case required of
the deceased that he be vigilant and watchful to avoid such
danger as his experience of the road must have made him
aware he must expect in such places as the place where the
acbident occurred, and under the circumstances detailed by
the witnesses, to wit: at a time when heavy rains had been
met with, and that there has been offered no evidence whatever upon that point by the plaintiff, not even a reputation
for care, but there has been evidence offered by defendant
that he was not in the exercise of due care; nor has there
been any evidence offered as to whether if the sand had
been discovered at the time it might have been discovered
he could or could not have applied the air in time to prevent
the accident.
"12. The court is asked .to instruct the jury that a party
taking employment as an engineer in running a locomotive
assumes the risks that are incident to the employment and to
the running of locomotives over the roads operated by his
employer, and if the jury believe that the country through
which this road ran and its location was such that sand was
frequently deposited on the track, then the deposit of sand
on the track when heavy rains occurred must be taken as
one of the ordinary risks of his employment, and the duty of
the engineer was to be vigilant in avoiding it; and if the
jury believe that the lack of such vigilance on the part of
deceased contributed to the accident, then the plaintiff cannot
recover.
"3. The court is asked to instruct the jury that the duty
that an employer owes to the employA is to exercise ordinary
care in providing the employ6 a safe place in which to
work, and what is ordinary care is such care as men of
ordinary prudence use in similar circumstances in the same
employment.
"4. The court is asked to instruct the jury that there is no
evidence to show that the construction of a culvert at the
place where the accident happened would have avoided or
would probably have avoided the accident."

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. O'BRIEN.

455

Statement of the Case.

The court refused to give each of these instructions, and
defendant excepted.
The court then charged the jury at large, leaving to them
the issues of negligence on the part of the company in not
properly constructing the track in that no outlet was provided for the water which would be liable to come down on
the track and deposit sand and other obstructions thereon,
and of contributory negligence.
The court advised the jury, among other things, that, as
the road at the place where the accident occurred was built
across the mouth of a gulch, and from all the circumstances
it would seem that it would have been practicable to make a
culvert under the track at that place, keeping open the channel towards the river through which the sand might have
washed out, and in that manner obstruction might have been
avoided, if they believed from the evidence, taking into consideration the size of the requisite opening and the quantity
of sand and gravel coming down through the gulch, and all
the circumstances, the track might have been built at reasonable expense so as to avoid the possibility of the sand coming
upon the track and obstructing it, they were at liberty to find
that the company was negligent in respect to the manner of
building the track at that place. And also that, independently
of the testimony of Hall on that subject, the jury, "having
regard to the testimony before you, the situation of the road
and the topography of the ground, the gulch coming down
in the way described by the witnesses," might on their own
judgment and knowledge of such matters determine in their
own minds "whether it was practicable to make a culvert
there with reasonable cost, which would have the effect of
carrying away the sand and gravel so it would* not be an
obstruction upon the track."
To these parts -of the charge defendant excepted.
The jury found in favor of plaintiff, and judgment having
been entered on the verdict, the company carried the case to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which
affirmed the judgment. 4 U. S. App. 221.
Thereupon this writ of error was brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr.John -M. Thurston, (with whom was
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

rA.JIohn F. Dillon

-Mr. H. E. Luthe and 3r. C. S. Thomas, for defendant in
error, submitted on their brief.
_. CHIF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that as to the first question which the Circuit Court declined to allow to be put to
Hall the answer would have been purely an inference based
upon facts previously proven, and an inference which it was
for the jury to draw from those facts, and therefore that it
was properly excluded; that as to the second question
addressed to that witness and excluded, namely, whether the
cut was not constructed as cuts were ordinarily constructed on
roads running through such places, the court did not err in its
exclusion, because railway cuts are not made upon any recognized pattern, and the testimony offered would have been no
aid to the jury without further testimony showing that the
surroundings of other cuts were substantially similar to those
of the cut where the accident happened, which would have
involved collateral issues tending to confuse and mislead; and
that it was within the discretion of the trial court to permit
leading questions to be propounded for the purposes of
impeachment. It was also held that the Circuit Court did
not err in refusing the first instruction asked for defendant,
because the burden of proof was not upon plaintiff to show in
the first instance that he was in the exercise of due care at the
time of the accident; that the second instruction was properly
refused because it confused two distinct propositions, that
relating to the risks assumed by an employ6 in entering a
given service and that relating to the amount of vigilance that
should be exercised under given circumstances, and because
furthermore the ifistruction was not justified under the evidence; that while it was true that persons employed on lines of
railway constructed at the foot of mountain ranges are necessarily subjected to greater dangers.than those employed upon

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. O'BRIEN.

457

Opinion of the Court.

railroads passing over prairie country, and that an engineer on
a line running at the foot of a mountain range assumes the
increased risk due to this fact, yet the employ6 does not
assume the risks and dangers that are caused by negligence
on the part of the company, but has a right to expect that the
company will construct and maintain its track and roadbed in
such a condition as not to subject its employ~s to unnecessary
risks and dangers, and that it is the duty of such company to
use due care to construct its roadbed at a place where it crosses
a waterway so that it may be reasonably safe for use, and if
it has not done that, a jury may be justified in finding negligence on its part.
And also that there was no error in declining to give the
third instruction, inasmuch as it was fully covered in the
charge; nor in refusing the fourth instruction because it was
not proper under the evidence; nor in those parts of the
charge complained of.
In our opinion the Circuit Court of Appeals committed no
error in its rulings and in affirming the judgment of the court
below, and we are not inclined to restate the reasons for the
Conclusions reached by that court, which are fully set forth
in the case as reported.
The general rule undoubtedly is that a railroad company is
bound to provide suitable and safe materials and structures in
the construction of its road and appurtenances, and if from a
defective construction thereof an injury happen to one of its
servants the company is liable for the injury sustained. The
servant undertakes the risks of the employment as far as they
spring from defects incident to the service, but he does not
take the risks of the negligence of the master itself. The
master is not to be held as guaranteeing or warranting absolute safety under all circumstances, but it is bound to exercise the care which the exigency reasonably demands in
furnishing proper roadbed, track, and other structures, including sufficient culverts for the escape of water collected and
accumulated by its embankments and excavations. Hough v.
Railway Co., iOO U. S. 213; Texas & Pacific Railway v.
Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Gardner v. -Michigan Central Rairoad,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

150 U. S. 349, 359; Union Pacifrc Railway v. Daniels, 152
U. S. 684; Chicago & lVorthwestern Railroad v. Swett, 45
Illinois, 197; Toledo & PeoriaRailway v. Conroy, 68 Illinois,
560; Stoher v. Iron Mountain Railway Co.5 91 Missouri, 509;
Paulmier v. Erie Railroad, 34 IN. S. Law, 151; Snow v.
Housatonic Railroad Co., 8 Allen, 441; fluddleston v. -Lowell
lachine Shop, 106 Mass. 282; Smith v. Hfarlem Railroad
Co., 19 IN. Y. 127; Patterson v. Connellsville Railroad Co.,
76 Penn. St. 389.
It is the duty of the company in employing persons to run
over its road to exercise reasonable care and diligence to make
and maintain it fit.and safe for use, and where a defect is the
result of faulty construction which the employer knew or
must be charged with knowing, it is liable to the employl
if the latter use due care on his part, for injuries resulting
therefrom.
There are cases in which, if the employ6 knows of the
risk and the danger attendant upon it, he may be held to
have taken the hazard by accepting or continuing in the
employment; but this case, as left to the jury under the particular facts, is not one of them. This engineer was entitled
to rely upon the company as having properly constructed the
road, and to presume that it had made proper inquiry in respect of latent defects, if there were any, in the construction,
for such Was its duty, and he cannot be held to knowledge of
the danger lurking in this narrow seam in the mountain side
by whose inequalities its sinuosities were hidden. We agree
with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the Circuit Court properly instructed the jury in this regard, and that no error was
committed in allowing the jury to consider the evidence in
the light of their own judgment and knowledge, taking into
consideration all the facts bearing on the defective construction in question.
Judgment
affirmed.

MR. TusTioE BREWER and MR. JUSTInE PECKHAM took no
part in the consideration and decision of this case.

