OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 71.

Argued November 18, 1895. -Decded

March 2, 1896.

In Alabama a judgment in itself imposes no lien upon the property of the
judgment debtor, but the issue of an executioL 'Ind its delivery to the
officer are necessary to create a lien.
According to the settled rule in Alabama, when an execution comes to the
hands of the sheriff the lien attaches and continues from term to term,
provided alias and pluries writs are duly issued and delivered, and while
it is so kept alive the lien is, upon levy and sale, paramount to any intermediate conveyance by the debtor; and as, in this case, the facts show
that valid executions were issued and delivered to the marshal as early
as January 23, 1877, and on return alias executions were duly issued and
duly levied, the subsequent sale related back to the original issue, and
took the legal title out of the plaintiff in error prior to his deed of March
22, 1877.
When it appears by a memorandum on judgment records that "by consent
execution is stayed until" a date named, and execution issues before that
date, it will be presumed, nothing appearing to the contrary, that it was
rightly issued, and that either the agreement lacked consideration, or
was not authorized, or had been by mutual assent annulled, or that the
terms of the agreement had not been complied with by defendant.

THIS was an action "in the nature of ejectment," as so
denominated in the Alabama code, brought by the United
States "against Eugene Beebe, Sims Phillips, and Adeline
Thomas for the recovery of an undivided one fourth ihterest
in a tract of land known as the, Montgomery race track, containing eighty acres, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama. Beebe defended as landlord, and Phillips and Thomas were his tenants. Trial was
had; a verdict rendered for plaintiffs; and judgment entered
thereon accordingly. On the trial plaintiffs put in evidence
a deed executed by Josiah Morris and wife, June 14, 1873,
to Eugene Beebe and Ferrie Henshaw of an undivided one
half of the eighty acres in question, of which it was admitted
Morris was seized and possessed at that date. The records

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

of two separate judgments recovered in favor of the United
States against Beebe and others, December 19, 1876, at the regalar November term, 1876, of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama, for the sums respectively of $991 and $1638.68, were put in evidence. The consideratum clause in each instance concluded, "for which let
execution issue." Above the record of each judgment appeared the amount thereof in figures, followed by the words:
"Stay of ex. till 25th March, 1877. R. ;" and at the foot of
each judgment were these words: "And by consent execution
is stayed until the 25th day of March, A.D. 1877."
Two alias executions issued on said judgments, May 10,
1877, "with the indorsements thereon," were put in evidence.
They ran in one of the forms of an alias writ, "again you are
hereby commanded," and were entitled on the back, "alias
fi. fa." Each had endorsed upon it (in almost verbally identical words) the following:
"Received in office January 23d, 1877.
"GEo. TURNER, U. S. .Mamhal.
To satisfy the within execution, I have levied, this 5th
day of April, 1877, on an undivided half interest in the following described property, to wit:
""2d.

The tract of land known as Montgomery race track,
near Montgomery, containing 80 acres, more or less.
"Notice in writing given the detendant.
"GEo. TURNER, U. S. 3ashal.
"Returned for alias, not advertised and sold for want of
time. April 6th, 1877.
"GEe. TURNER, U. S. MYarhal,
"P'r F. JoST, Dep."
Below these indorsements, on each writ, the clerk of the
court certified, under his hand and seal, May 10, A.D. 1877,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"the foregoing page to contain a true copy of the return of
the marshal on the execution issued next last preceding this
in the aforesaid cause as the same appears of record and on
file in my office as clerk of said court."
There was also endorsed on each writ, "Received in office
May 10, 1877;" and a levy, May 10, 1877, which included
said tract of land.
On the execution for $1638.68 appeared this return: "The
property of the defendant, Beebe, herein described, [certain
property being named as excepted,] was, on the second day of
July, 1877, sold to the United States for one thousand dollars,
and deed made to the United States for the same. George
Turner, U. S. Marshal."
Plaintiffs then introduced in evidence a deed of the United
States marshal to the United States, dated July 2, 1877, and
duly acknowledged and recorded, reciting the leyy of execution on the property and the sale thereof on that date, after
due advertisement, to the United States, as the highest and
best bidder, and conveying all Beebe's interest in the tract.
Defendants offered in evidence a deed from Beebe to Henshaw, dated March 22, and acknowledged and recorded March
23, 1&77. This instrument recited that a copartnership.had
existed between Beebe and Henshaw under the name of E.
Beebe & Co.; that Beebe would be found on a settlement of
the affairs of the firm to be indebted to it, and also to Henshaw for moneys advanced and paid out by him in excess of
his proportion as partner, the precise amount of which could
not be ascertained until the debts of the firm were paid and a
s'ettlemenl-had between Beebe and Henshaw; that Beebe and
Henshaw were owners as paitners of real and personal property, which was enumerated, and included an undivided half
-interest in a tract of. land called "the old Montgomery race
track;" and, therefore, "to protect and secure " the creditors
of the firm and to -enable Henshaw 'the more easily and
readily" to settle and pay its debts and "to protect and secure" Henshaw for moneys paid out and advanced for the
firm in excess of his proportion, and "to protect and secure
him" for all moneys that Beebe might owe the firm or Hen-

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

shaw on a settlement between them of the firm's affairs, Beebe
conveyed all his interest in the property described, as partner,
or otherwise, to Henshaw, "in trust, to sell the same at such
times and places and on such terms, for credit or for cash, or
for part cash and part credit, and at private or public sale, as
the best interests 6f the said creditors of said firm and of him
and myself as he may determine, and to apply the proceeds
thereof to the payment of the debts of the said firm, and to the
payment of what I may be found indebted to said firm or to
said Ferrie Henshaw on the settlement between us of the
affairs and business of said firm, and if any excess should remain in his hands from the sale of said property after the payment of said debts of said firm and of what I may owe the
said firm or owe him on the said settlement of the business
and affairs of said firm, then he shall pay back to me such excess; and if there should remain in his hands any of said
property not required to be sold for the purposes aforesaid,
then on such final settlement between us he shall reconvey the
same to me, my heirs or assigns."
Plaintiffs objected to the introduction of this deed in evidence on the grounds, among others, that it "is void upon its
face," and that it "sets up no claim superior to the title of the
United States acquired at the execution sale." Beebe was
then sworn as a witness, and defendants proposed to prove by
him that at the time of the execution of the deed offered in
evidence, Beebe-and Henshaw were in copartnership; that at
that date the partnership was indebted to various persons in
amounts aggregating forty thousand dollars, and Beebe was
indebted to Henshaw about two thousand dollars individually,
and also about the same sum on account of partnership matters; that the property was purchased while Beebe and Henshaw were partners, and was purchased with partnership assets;
that the deed had been delivered to and accepted by Henshaw; but defendants admitted that Henshaw had never sold
any of the property conveyed by the deed, and that nothing
had been done thereunder. The court sustained plaintiffs' objection to the introduction of the deed, and refused to allow
the same to be read in evidence, and defendants excepted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon plaintiffs offered in evidence a deed by Henshaw to
Beebe, dated February 23, 1878, which recited that the debts
and business affairs of the partnership had been fully settled
without the necessity of having to sell any of the property for
that purpose, and, therefore, lHenshaw reconveyed to Beebe
an undivided one half interest in and to the property. In that
connection defendants "proved," (offered to prove,) that after
March 22, 1877, Henshaw became incapable of attending to
business; and that thereupon Beebe procured Henshaw to execute the deed of February 23, 1878, at which time the debts
and business affairs of the partnership had not in fact been
settled and paid.
The court instructed the jury that "if they believed the
evidence the plaintiff was entitled to recover the land sued
for in the complaint filed in this cause."
The following errors were. assigned: "(1) The rejection of
the deed executed by the plaintiff, Eugene Beebe, to Ferrie
Henshaw on the 22d day of March, 1877, offered in evidence
by the plaintiffs in error, conveying to said Henshaw the property involved in this cause. (2) The rejection of said deed,
offered in evidence by the plaintiffs in error, in connection
with the facts the plaintiffs in error proposed to prove by the
testimony of the said Eugene Beebe. (3) The rejection of
the testimony of said Eugene Beebe, offered by the plaintiffs in error in connection with said deed and to support the
same. (4) The charge of the court to the jury ' that if they
believed the evidence the plaintiff was entitled to recover the
land sued for in this cause."'
Mr. H. C. Tompkins for plaintiffs in error.
tqll was on his brief.

_Y. H. S. Cat-

Mr..Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants
in error.
.Mr. deorge H. Patrick filed a brief for same.
MR. CHIEF JUsTc

FULLEsR, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The exception saved by defendants was to the refusal of
the court to admit the deed of March 22, 1877, in evidence,
and the first three errors assigned may be considered together.
It is the settled law of Alabama that a judgment in itself imposes no lien upon the property of the judgment debtor, real or
personal, but that the issue of an execution and its delivery to
the officer are necessary to create a lien. Dane v. JifcA rthur,
57 Alabama, 448; Carlisle v. Godwin, 68 Alabama, 137;
Perkins v. B3ierfield Iron & Coal Co., 77 Alabama, 403, 409.
Under section 2871 of the Code of Alabama of 1867, applicable here, executions could be levied on real property to which
the defendant had a legal right, or a perfect equity, having
paid the purchase money, or in which he had a vested legal
interest, in possession, reversion or remainder, whether he had
the entire estate or was entitled to it in common with others;
on personal property of the defendant; on an equity of redemption in land or personal property.
The deed of Morris of June 14, 1873, to Beebe and Henshaw, "their heirs and assigns," conveyed an undivided one
half interest in the lands to the grantees and vested in each
of them an undivided one fourth interest as tenants in common. This was so held in Southern, Cotton Oil Co. v. Hen8/jaw, 89 Alabama, 448, 451, and that, "this being the case,
although a partnership existed between Beebe and Hensbaw,
upon the death of the latter the legal title of his undivided
one fourth interest descended to, and vested in, his heirs, also
as tenants in common with each other and with Beebe."
Defendants conceded legal title in Beebe, but by way of
answering the objection to the instrument of March 22, 1877,
as on its face lacking in good faith, evidence was tendered to
show that the real estate was purchased with partnership
funds, though not for partnership purposes. Jlatehett v.
Blanton, 72 Alabama, 423, 435; Pars. Part. *365.
The evidence in this regard, such as it was, was offered in
connection with the question of the admissibility of the deed
of March 22, 1877, and the action of the court to which an
exception was saved was solely to the refusal to permit that
deed to be introduced.

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

If valid executions were issued and delivered to the marshal
as early as January 23, 1877, and, on return, alias executions
were issued and duly levied, then the subsequent sale related
back and took the legal title out of Beebe, prior to March 22,
1877, so that the deed of the latter date was immaterial, and
there was no error in refusing to admit it.
It is argued that the only executions shown by the record
to have been issued on the judgments were those of May 10,
1877, but we do not think so. The executions of that date
were alias writs, and the presumption is that they were preceded by others regularly issued. Sellers v. H'ayes, 17 Alabama, 749; Pollar'dv. Cooke, 19 Alabama, 188. But the fact
did not rest upon presumption, for these writs bore the indorsement of the receipt by the marshal, January 23, 187-7,
of the previous writs; their levy on the property in question,
April 5, 1877i and their return April 6, 1877, for want of
time to advertise the sale. And the return of the marshal
covering the date of the receipt and the levy of the prior
writs was duly endorsed upon the alias writs and certified to
by the clerk of the couif, under his hand and seal. All this
was admitted in evidence without objection, and if defendants
desired to raise the objection that the original executions
ought to be produced; they should have done so then, when,
if well founded, the objection could have been removed.
The code of 1867 provided that the clerk should issue executions as soon after the adjournment of the court as practicable, within the time prescribed, namely, if the session was
one week, within ten days ; if two weeks, within fifteen days;
if three or more weeks, within twenty days; the day, month,
and year of its receipt was required to be endorsed thereon;
return to be made three days before the first day of the return
term, which was the next term after its date, unless issued less
than fifteen days before court, and then the term next thereafter; and the reason for its non-execution in whole or in part
was required to be stated in the return. §§ 2838, 2839, 2851,
2852, 2853, and 2854.
Sections 2872 and 2873 were as follows:
"§ 2872. A writ of fieri facias is a lien only within the

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
Opiniou of the Court.

county in which it is received by the officer, on the land and
personal property of the defendant, subject to levy and sale
from the time only that the writ is received by the sheriff;
which lien continues as long as the writ is regularly issued
and delivered to the sheriff without the lapse of an entire
term.
"§ 2873. The liens of executions as between different judgment creditors, and between judgment creditors and purchasers from the defendant for valuable consideration, are
hereby declared to be: that if an entire term elapse between
the return of an execution and the suing out of an alias, the
lien created by the delivery of the first execution to the sheriff
is lost; but if an alias be sued out before the lapse of an entire
term, and delivered to the sheriff before the sale of property
under a junior execution, the lien created by the delivery of
the first execution must be preferred."
The regular terms of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama began on the first Monday
of November, 1876, and the first Monday of May, 1877, and
these writs were issued, delivered and levied without the lapse
of an entire term as specified in the statute. Car'isle v. May,
75 Alabama, 502. According to the settled rule in Alabama
where an execution comes to the hands of the sheriff, the lien
attaches and continues from term to term provided alias and
pluries writs are duly issued and delivered; and, while it is so
kept alive, the lien is, upon levy and sale, paramount to any
intermediate conveyance of the debtor. Parks v. Cqfey, 52
Alabama, 32; Hendon v. White, 52 Alabama, 597; Ckilds v.
Jones, 60 Alabama, 352; Perkins v. Briefield Co., 77 Alabama, 403, 410; Massingill v. Downs, 7 How. 760, 767.
The original executions here had been duly issued and levied
but returned for want of time to advertise and sell. The alias
writs were then taken out, and apparently a new levy and
sale made thereunder. In some jurisdictions a formal venditioni eaponas might have been issued, but these alias writs
with their indorsements thereon of the prior levy were quite
as efficacious, and the sale could be sustained as made under
the original or new levy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In Dryer v. Graham, 58 Alabama, 623, 626, the Supreme
Court of Alabama said: "It rests in the election of the plaintiff in execution to take out an alias execution, or a writ of
venditioni exvsonas. If he desires merely a sale of the property
on which a levy has been made, and not of other property, or
the acquisition of a lien on other property, a venditionri exponas is the proper writ. The venditioni exvonas continues
the lien of the execution which has been levied, as to the
property on which the levy was made, whether the property
be real or personal. The writ is, indeed, merely for the continuation and completion of the original execution. And if its
mandate is for the sale of land on which there has been a
previous levy, it not only compels a sale, but confers the
authority to sell, and the title of the purchaser has relation to
the date of the lien of the execution. . . . A venditioni
exponas is in its nature and operation, as to the property on
which the levy may have been made, an alias execution. It
merely commands and authorizes, as. to real estate, the completion of the execution already begun."
Certainly this sale was none the less valid because there had
been a levy of the original writs, and alias executions were
issued and levied on the same property.
But it is contended on behalf of plaintiffs in error that no
executions could have issued until March 25, 1877, by reason
of the memoranda on the judgment records that "by consent
execution is stayed until the 25th day of March, A.D. 1877."
Assuming that the consent for a stay was given by some
one acting for the government, although that does not appear,
yet from the fact that executions were issued before the expiration of the time, the presumption would be reasonable,
nothing appearing to the contrary, that they were rightly
issued, and that either the agreement lacked consideration, or
was not authorized, or had been by mutual assent annulled, or
that the terms of the agreement had not been complied with
by defendants.
The Supreme Court of' Mississippi held in Jones v. Bailey,
5 How. (Miss.) 564, where plaintiffs agreed to stay of execution for a certain time, "unless defendants consent for its

BEEBE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

issuance sooner," and execution was issued without regard to
the agreement and property sold, that the presumption was
that it issued with the consent of defendants.
The marshal's return on the original writs showed that
notice of the levy thereof was given Beebe in writing as
required by statute, (§ 2857,) and the fact that he did not complain that the executions had been issued contrary to agreement renders the presumption that they were not obnoxious
to that objection well nigh, if not altogether, unanswerable.
Aside from this, as the executions were in fact issued, and
received by the marshal January 23, 1877, the question thus
suggested wbuld be whether the executions were voidable or
absolutely void, if the consent for a stay was lawful and the
executions were taken out in violation thereof.
In Freeman on Executions, (2d ed.) § 25, 26, et 8eq., a
text book cited and relied on in numerous decisions of the
Supreme Court of Alabama, it is said that the decided preponderance of authority is in favor of the proposition that the
premature issue of an execution is an irregularity merely;
that the execution is erroneous but must be respected and
may be enforced until it is vacated in some manner prescribed
by law; that no one but the defendant can complain of it,
and even he cannot do so in any collateral proceeding. And
among other cases, Blaine v. The Ship Charles Carter, 4
Cranch, 328, is cited, which was decided by Chief Justice
Marshall on circuit and his decree affirmed by this court, Mr.
Justice Chase delivering the opinion. In that case, under an
act of Congress providing that "until the expiration of ten
days, execution shall not issue," certain executions were collaterally objected to on the ground that they were issued
within ten days, and the court said: "If irregular, the court
from which they issued ought to have been move to set
them aside; they were not void, because the marshal could
have justified under them, and if voidable, the proper means
of destroying their efficacy have not been pursued." So, an
execution issued after a year and a day is voidable but not
void; even the defendant cannot attack it collaterally; and a
levy and sale, made under it, are sufficient to transfer his
VOL. CLXI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

title. Freeman, § 29. In Brevard v. Jones, 50 Alabama, 221,
2412, this was so held, and the court remarked: "It can make
no difference if the plaintiff in execution is the purchaser,
because. the question is not one of notice, but of the status of
the execution."
In Steele v. Tutwiler, 68 Alabama, 107, 110, the Supreme
Court of Alabama referred to .Morgan v. -Evans, 72 Illinois,
586, which ruled that an execution was not void but voidable
where it issued on a dormant judgment after the time limited
by statute; and Stewa-rt v. Stocker, 13 S. & 1. 199, where a
similar ruling was made in respect of an execution issued on
a judgment confessed prematurely, contrary to the terms of
a bond; and the court said: "In all such cases, though the execution may be erroneous, and irregular, it must be respected
and enforced, until vacated by motion to quash, or in some
other manner prescribed by law. Freeman on Ex. § 25. And
it is the duty of the party seeking to take advantage of irregularities or defects of this character to move with proper diligence, at the earliest opportunity. Undue laches is treated as
a waiver of the right, and operates as an irrevocable renunciation of it. Freeman on Ex. §§ 76, 30. And after a delay of
seven years in this case, without explanation or excuse, we
think the motion comes too late." And to the same effect see
Henderson v. Henderson, 66 Alabama, 556, 558. Again, it is
held that executions issued contrary to agreement between
the parties are subject to the same rules as other premature
executions. In Cody v. Quinn, 6 Ired. (Law) 191, 193, it was
decided that a memorandum -made on the docket with the consent of the parties by the clerk "NofX.fa.. to issue until October or until ordered," was no part of the judgment, and if
execution were issued before then it was not void. In Townsend v. Fontenot, 42 La. Ann. 890, which was a suit to restrain
the execution of a judgment recovered in a suit to enforce
payment of certain notes with recognition of a mortgage and
vendor's privilege, the judgment contained the following statement, prepared and written by plaintiff's counsel, and inserted
by plaintiff's instructions: "The attorney of plaintiff in this
suit declares he has been instructed not to seize or sell said

