OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 458.

Submitted January 9, 1896.-Decided March 2,1896.

While mere inadequacy of price has rarely been held sufficient in itself to
justify setting aside a judicial sale of property, courts are not slow to
seize upon other circumstances impeaching the fairness of the trausa~tion,
as a cause for vacating it, especially if the inadequacy be so gross as to
shock the conscience.
If the sale has been attended by any irregularity, as if several lots have
been sold in bulk where they should have been sold separately, or sold
in such manner that their full value could not be realized; if bidders
have been kept away; if any undue advantage has been taken to the prejudice of the owner of the property, or he has been lulled into a false
security; or, if the sale has been collusively, or in any other manner,
conducted for the benefit of the purchaser, and the property has been
sold at a greatly inadequate price, the sale may be set aside, and the
owner permitted to redeem.
There are other facts in this case, stated in the opinion, in addition to the
grossly inadequate price realized for the property, trat afford ample justification for the action of the court below in permitting the plaintiff to redeem upon equitable terms, and ordering a reconveyance of the property.
Quc re, whether issue of an alias for the original amount of the judgment,
after the return of a prior execution, satisfied to the amount of nearly one
half of such judgment, the sale of property thereunder to an amount more
than sufficient to satisfy the amount actually due, and payment of the excess to plaintiff's attorneys will not invalidate the entire proceedings ?
Whether the levy upon the interest of a co-tenant in a specific part, designated by metes and bounds, of a certain larger quantity of land is valid,
is not decided.
Before the time had expired to redeem from the execution sale, the plaintiff
was told by the defebdant that he would not be pushed, that the statutory
time to redeem would not be insisted upon, and, believing it, acted and
relied upon such assurance. Held, that .uuder such circumstances the
purchaser was estopped to insist upon the statutory period, notwithstanding the assurances were not in writing and were made without consideration; and that there was a concurrent jurisdiction of a court of
equity, founded upon its general right to relieve from the consequences
of fraud, accident or mistake, which might be exercised, notwithstanding
the statutory period for redemption has expired.

THIS was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity,
originally filed in the Third Judicial District Court of the

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

Territory of Utah, by John M. Young against Frank E.
Stephens and wife and Albert T. Schroeder and wife, as
defendants, to set aside and cancel certain execution sales of
real property in Salt Lake City as fraudulent and void, and
for permission to redeem from such sales, notwithstanding the
expiration of the statutory time for redemption, and for a
decree compelling the defendants to convey to the plaintiff
the property mentioned, upon just and equitable terms.
The material facts in the case were that, on March 6, 1891,
Clark, Eldredge & Co., a corporation, obtained judgment by
default in said court against the appellee John M. Young,
Henry Goddard, and George Goddard in the sum of $1673.36,
with $30.60 costs. Frank B. Stephens and Albert T. Schroeder, partners and the principal defendants, were the attorneys
for Clark, Eldredge & Co. in such action. The plaintiff John
M. Young was the owner of the undivided one half of two
parcels of land in Salt Lake City, and plaintiff's sister, Lydia
Y. Merrill, was the owner of the other undivided one half of
the said parcels. Their title was derived from the will of
their father, and, as to the greater part of such property, was
subject to a right in Sarah Milton Young and Ann Olive
Young to receive each one fourth of the money arising from
said property during their respective lives.
On April 29, 1881, an execution was issued in said action of
Clark, Eldredge & Co. against John M. Young, directing the
marshal of the United States, if sufficient personal .property
could not be found to satisfy the judgment, to levy upon the
real estate belonging to Young and his co-defendants in such
action; and on May 7,1891, the marshal gave notice that he
attached- and levied on all the right, title, claim, and interest
of the said John M. Young and his co-defendants in and to
that parcel of land described as beginning 101 feet north, and
391 feet east of the S.W. corner of lot 2, block 70, plat "A,"
Salt Lake City survey, and running thence east 154 feet, thence
north 28 feet, thence west 151 feet, thence south 28 feet to
the place of beginning; and also on that part of the same lot
described as beginning 324 feet west from the S.E. corner of
the said lot, running thence west 38 feet, thence north 98*

OCTOBFR TERMT, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

feet, thence east 38 feet, thence south 98 feet to the place of
beginning; and alsN on a part of lot 12, block 8, five acre plat
"A," Big Field survey.
Afterwards, on July 25, 1891, the marshal certified that be
had sold the property described in the notice to John Clark,
and, deducting his commissions and expenses of sale, paid the
balance realized upon said sale, viz., $962.36, to the attorneys
of Clark, Eldredge & Co., and further returned that there was
still due and unpaid on said judgment the sum of $886.90.
The John. Clark mentioned in the return was a director and
the principal stockholder of Clark, Eldredge & Co. Afterwards, on July 28, an alias execution issued from the said
court in such action for the full sum of $1673.36, and $30.50
costs, by virtue of which the marshal levied upon a certain
other'parcel of the same lot described as beginning 64 feet
west of the N.E. corner of said lot 2,-running thence west 45J
feet, thence south 20 rods, thence east 78 feet, thence north
901 feet, thence east 311 feet, thence north 411 feet, thence
west 16 feet, thence north 1481 feet, thence west 48 feet,
thence north 491 feet to the place of beginning; and on
August 25 the marshal returned that he had sold these premises to the defendants Stephens and Schroeder for the sum
of $828.70, and further certified that the judgment obtained
by said corporation was still unsatisfied to the extent of

$100.
On September 30, said marshal made a further return to
the last mentioned writ, in which he certified that he sold all
of lot 12, block 8, five acre plat "A," Big Field survey,
situate in Salt Lake County, and also a certain parcel of land
described as beginning 39 feet east and 81 feet north of the
S.V. corner of said lot 2, running thence north 209 feet,
thence east 161 feet, thence south 209 feet, thence west 161
feet to the place of beginning, to Stephens and Schroeder for
the sum of $136, and that, deducting the costs and expenses of said last levy, amounting to $30, paid the balance,
$106, to the attorneys of Clark, Eldredge & Co., and returned
said writ fully satisfied.
The court found that all that part of lot 2 as described in

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

this statement, a plat of which appeared in the record, oonstituted a single parcel of land, and should have been regarded and treatea as such, and not as being divided into
separate lots or parcels, and that the first parcel sold being
15J by 28 feet had no ingress or egress, and that the same as
sold would necessarily be sacrificed on such sale on account of
its location, but that at the time of the sale of this parcel,
neither Stephens nor Schroeder had actual knowledge of any
other realty owned by plaintiff.
The other material facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Before the case was called for argument, the suit was settled so far as the defendants Stephens and his wife were concerned, leaving Schroeder and his wife sole defendants. The
case coming on to be heard upon pleadings and proofs, the
District Court made a decree permitting the plaintiff Young
to redeem the property upon paying to the defendants the
sum of $723.25, less certain costs, but subject to one half of a
mortgage executed by the defendants, who were ordered to
execute and deliver to plaintiff a deed of the property. From
this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, which affirmed the decree of the District Court,
whereupon appellants prayed and were allowed an appeal to
this court.
Mr. A. T. &ckroeder and Mfr. James B. Edmonds for
appellants.
Mr. Par'ey L. Williams for appellee.
MR. JusTicmi BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Plaintiff renes mainly for a decree in this case upon the
fact that his interest in the property in question, which the
trial court found to be worth $26,000, was sacrificed at these
several judicial sales to pay a judgment of little more than
$1700.
While mere inadequacy of price has rarely been held suffiVOL. cI Ix-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

cient in itself to justify setting aside a judicial sale of property, courts are not slow to seize upon other circumstances
impeaching the fairness of the transaction, as a cause for
vacating it, especially if the inadequacy be so gross as to
shook the conscience. If the sale has been attended by any
irregularity, as if several lots have been sold in bulk where
they should have been sold separately, or sold in such manner
that their full value could not be realized; if bidders have
been kept away; if any undue advantage has been taken to
the prejudice of the owner of the property, or he has been
lulled into a false security; or, if the sale has been collusively,
or in any other manner, conducted for the benefit of the purchaser, and the property has been sold at a greatly inadequate
price, the sale may be set aside, and the owner permitted to
redeem.
Thus, in Byers v. Surget, 19. How. 303, 306, lands to the
amount of 14,000 acres, and estimated at from $40,000 to
$70,000 in value, were sold by the sheriff in satisfaction of
a judgment for costs of $39, to the attorney for the successful
party, and cQnveyed to him for $9.31.
The sale was pronounced to have been fraudulent and void, and a reconveyance of the property was decreed. It appeared that the
owner of the property had no knowledge of the suit until
he was informed of the sale of the land; that the attorney
for the successful party, the defendant, assumed himself the
power to tax the costs, the right of selecting the final process,
of prescribing the description and quantity of the property
which he chose to have seized in satisfaction, of directing the
sheriff as to the various steps to be taken by him,.and of becoming the purchaser himself for the petty sum of $9.31J.
Of this proceeding, Mr. Justice Daniel, in delivering the
opinion of the court, remarks: "Such is the history of a
transaction which the appellant asks of this court to sanction,
and it seems pertinent here to inquire under what system of
civil- polity, under what code of law or ethics, a transaction
like that disclosed by the record in this case can be excused,
or even palliated."
In Graffam v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 180, 186, two judgment

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

creditors became the purchasers for about $150 of unincumbered property worth at least $10,000, although the judgment
debtor had $3000 worth of furniture and personal property
in the house subject to levy. During the temporary absence
of the complainant, the defendants entered upon the premises,
broke into the house and took possession of it on behalf of the
purchasers, removed the furniture and other personal property,
including the wearing apparel of the complainant, took possession of her personal correspondence and papers and the
sum of $170 in money, and still retained possession of the
property at the time of the filing of the bill. The court
found that the complainant was ignorant of the issue of the
execution or of the sale of the property, that the purchasers
knew that she was unconscious of it, and endeavoured to keep
her so, and took an inequitable advantage of her ignorance to
get possession of it. In reply to the argument that the proceedings were regular, Mr. Justice Bradley observed: "It is
insisted that the proceedings were all conducted according to
the forms of law. Very likely. Some of the most atrocious
frauds are committed in that way. Indeed, the greater the
fraud intended, the more particular the parties to it often are
to proceed according to the strictest forms of law." The
court commented most severely upon the conduct of the purchasers, and found no difficulty in setting aside the sale, although four members of the court dissented upon the ground
that the complainant had failed in her duty to redeem from
the sale within the time limited by law.
In Howell v. Baker, 4 Johns. Oh. 118, a farm worth $2000
was sold under a judgment and execution, on which not more
than $80 were due, to the attorney of the plaintiff, who attended the sheriff's sale, for $10. The gale was held upon a
stormy day, when no person but the attorney and the deputy
sheriff were present, and it was held that these facts, connected with the gross inadequacy of price, were sufficient to
authorize the purchaser to be held as trustee for the respective interests of the parties to the execution, and the bidder
was allowed to redeem on equitable terms. A large number
of other cases are also cited by Mr. Justice Bradley in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion in Grafam v. Burgess, and the general proposition
laid down, as above stated, that if, in addition to inadequacy
of price there be other circumstances throwing a shadow upon
the fairness of the transaction, the judgment debtor will be
allowed to redeem.
There are other facts in this case than the grossly inadequate price realized for this property, that afford ample justification for the action of the court below in permitting the
plaintiff to redeem upon equitable terms, and ordering a reconveyance of the property.
1. The property was sold to Stephens and Schroeder, who
had acted as attorneys for the judgment creditor throughout
the entire transaction, and had been fully paid by the corporation for their services. In this connection the trial court
further found that Stephens furnished the officer a description of "theproperty to be levied upon and sold, and that he
accordingly did levy upon and sell as he was directed by
Stephens according to such description. Add to this the
further finding that at neither of the sales was there any
other bidder and no other person present than Stephens and
the officer conducting the sales, and we can readily appreciate
how inevitable it was that the property should be sacrificed.
Although there is no general rule that an attorney may not
purchase at an execution sale, provided it be not done to the
prejudice of his own clients, Pacif c Railroad v. Ketchum, 101
U. S.289, 300, such purchase in itself is calculated to throw
a doubt upon the fairness of the sale, and as is quaintly said
of such sales by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in Howell
v. MoCreery, 7 Dana, 388: "Public policy and the analogies of
law require that they should be considered _per se as in the
twilight between legal fraud and fairness, and should be
deemed fraudulent, or in trust for the debtor, upon slight
additional facts." See also Ball v. lallet,1 Cox, 134:; fones v.
Martin, 26 Texas, 57; Byers v. Surget, 19 How. 303; Blight's
ifeir v. Iobin, 7 T. B. Mon. 612.
2. The alias execution of July 28 was not only issued for
the full amount of the original judgment, $1673.36 and $30.50
costs, without deducting $962.36, realized upon the first exe-

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

cution, but under it the marshal sold, under the directions of
Stephens and Schroeder, property for an amount in excess of
the amount remaining unpaid on the judgment, and collected
the excess and paid it over to Stephens and Schroeder, who
retained it. In this connection the trial court made the following finding: "At the time of the last sale, to wit, September 30, 1891, there was a balance due Clark, Eldredge &
Co. of only $25.57, and their judgment had been satisfied
except said sum, and to .satisfy said balance property was sold
as aforesaid, amounting in all to $136, $106 of which was
paid by the United States marshal to said Stephens and
Schroeder." Upon no theory were the judgment creditors
entitled to any more than the amount of their claim, and if,
as may sometimes happen, the property be sold for more than
the amount of the execution, the residue should be returned to
the judgment debtor.
There is reason for saying that the issue of an alias execution for the original amount of the judgment, after the return
of a prior execution, satisfied to the amount of nearly one half
of such judgment, the sale of 'property thereunder to an
amount more than sufficient to satisfy the amount actually
due, and the payment of the excess to the plaintiff's attorneys,
invalidate the entire proceedings- the rule in. some States
being that a levy for an amount exceeding the amount of the
judgment or the amount actually due upon the judgment with.
interest and costs is void. 2 Freeman on Executions, ยง 381;
Glidden v. Chase, 35 Maine, 90; Pickett v. Breckinridge, 22
Pick. 297; Peck v. Tifany, 2 N. Y. 451; lastings v. Johnson, 1 Nevada, 613 ; Patterson v. Carneal,3 A. K. Marsh. 618.
But, however this may be, there can be no doubt that this
alias execution and the proceedings thereunder were irregular
so far as Stephens and Schroeder were concerned, though perhaps not to the extent of invalidating the title of a bona
fide purchaser. Stead's Executors v. Course, 4 Cranch, 403;
F-rench v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506 ; Groff v. Jones, 6 Wend.
522; Tiernan v. Wilson, 6 Johns. Ch. 411.
3. The court below was also of opinion that the property of
the debtor was sacrificed by the manner in which the sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

were made, and particularly by the successive sales of his
interest in different parts of lot 2, block '70, held in common
with-his sister, Lydia Y. Merrill, and that a proper regard for
his interests required that his entire right to the whole land
thus held in common should have been sold at one time.
This, however, raises a question as to which the authorities
are not entirely in harmony, viz., whether the levy upon the
interest of a co-tenant in a specific part, designated by metes
and bounds, of a certain larger quantity of land is valid. In
view of the other manifest irregularities, we do not feel called
upon to express an opinion upon this point.
There is one finding, however, in respect to these sales,
which, taken in connection with the facts that the defendants
were the attorneys for the judgment creditors, furnished the
officer selling the property with the description of the property to be levied upon and sold, and became the purchasers
of the property either directly from the marshal, or indirectly
through their client Clark, which is in itself sufficient to justify
the action of the court below in vacating the sales and permitting the plaintiff to redeem, viz., that " before any of said property was sold, said Stephens, who was the sole bidder at each
of said sales, formed the intention that, regardless of the valueof the various pieces of property to be sold, and that were sold,
he would leave a balance after each sale, so that all of the plaintiff's property would be sold, and he so bid at the various sales
as to accomplish, and did accomplish, said object and purpose."
As Stephens was appellant's partner in the practice of law,
and in the prosecution of the claim of Clark, Eldredge & Co.,
and bought the property in for himself and partner, who now
sets up title in himself by virtue of such purchase, it is clear
that he is bound by Stephens' acts and representations. Certainly he cannot set up a title acquired by Stephens' assistance, and at the same time repudiate his acts in connection
with the acquisition of such title.
There are other circumstances, also, found by the court
below, which, taken in connection with the grossly inade'quate price paid, render it still more inequitable that purchasers standing in the position of the defendants in this case.

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

should insist upon the letter of the bargain, and throw something more than a mere doubt upon the fairness of the transaction. Before the time had expired for redemption Stephens
and Schroeder requested the collector of taxes of that county
to allow them to bring suit against the plaintiff to recover the
taxes owing by him for the year 1890, on the part of lot 2
described in the complaint, and agreed that, if the collector
so consented, they would bring the suit, and make the collection free of-cost to the collector, an arrangement which was
carried out according to its terms. On April 10, 1892, plaintiff offered to pay defendants the full amount of the judgment
obtained by them, together with interest at the rate of one per
cent per month, and also to liberally compensate them for all
their services and trouble, give them $1000 besides as a bonus,
and pay all their advances with interest if they would reconvey to him, which the defendants refused to do. Of a similar offer and refusal this court in 19 How. 310, 311, speaking
through Mr. Justice Daniel, said: "Another pregnant proof
of the design of the appellant to grasp and retain what no
principle of liberality or equity could warrant, is the fact,
clearly established, of his refusal after the sale to accept
from the appellee, for the redemption of his lands so glaringly sacrificed, a sum of money considerably exceeding in
amount the judgment for costs, with all the expenses incidental to the carrying that judgment into effect. The appellant, by his irregular and unconscientious contrivances,
achieved what he conceived to be an immense speculation,
and he determined to avail himself of it, regardless of its
injustice and ruinous consequences to the appellee."
About the same time, the plaintiff, being ignorant of the
fact that lot 12 had been sold and that the defendants had
a deed therefor, informed the defendant Schroeder that he
intended to redeem the lot from a sale that had been made
for the taxes of 1891, and afterwards did so redeem said lot,
and informed Schroeder that it had been done, the plaintiff
being still ignorant that the defendants held a marshal's deed
for it. Again, on April 24, plaintiff being still ignorant -that
defendants held a marshal's deed for lot 12, informed Schroe-

OCTOBER TERKlf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

der that he intended to redeem said lot from a tax sale that
had been made thereof for the taxes of 1890, and did subsequently redeem the same, and informed Schroeder of the fact,
and that Schroeder never at any time informed him that he
had obtained a deed for the lot. The court further found
that defendants purposely and intentionally failed to inform
the plaintiff that they had a title to the said lot at the time
the plaintiff was redeeming the same from the tax sales. The
court further found that the said attorneys, in violation of
their duty to obtain the highest possible price for the property while acting in behalf of their clients, became the bidders
upon said property, and so acted as to obtain the same for the
least possible sum, so as to satisfy the judgment, and at the
same time to sell all the property belonging to said .Young.
If these facts be not sufficient to justify a rescission of these
sales, it is difficult to imagine what would be so considered.
4. Defendant relies mainly upon the fact that the statutory period of redemption was allowed to expire before this
bill was filed, but the court below found in this connection
that before the time had expired to redeem the property, the
plaintiff was told by the defendant Stephens that he would
not be pushed, that the statutory time to redeem would -not
be insisted upon, and that the plaintiff believed and relied
upon such assurance. Under such circumstances the courts
have held with great unanimity that the purchaser is estopped
to insist upon the statutory period, notwithstanding the assurances were not in writing and were made without consideration, upon the ground that the debtor was lulled into a false
security. Guinn v. Locke, 1 Head, 110; Combs v. Little, 4
N. J. Eq. 310; Griffin v. Cofey, 9 13. Mon. 452; Martin v.
Martin,16 B. Mon. 8; Butt v. -utt, 91 Indiana, 305; Turner
66 Illinois, 41;
v. King, 2 Ired. Eq. 132; Lucas v. fiol,
iMoMakin v. Schenck, 98 Indiana, 261. In Southard v. Pole's
Ex'rs, 9 B. Mon. 261, 264, it is said that "a refusal by the
purchaser to accept the money and permit the redemption to
be made within the time agreed would be a fraud upon the
defendant in execution, and authorize an application by him
to a court of equity for relief."

SCHROEDER v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

Probably, if a motion had been made in the original case
to set aside the sale upon the ground of mere irregularities,
such motion would have to be made before the statutory
period for redemption had passed; but in this class of cases,
where fraudulent conduct is imputed to the parties conducting the sale, there is a concurrent jurisdiction of a court of
equity, founded upon its general right to relieve from the consequences of fraud, accident or mistake, which may be exercised, notwithstanding the statutory period for redemption
has expired. It is evident that, where a sale has culminated
in the execution and delivery of a deed to the purchaser,
which is not void upon its face, or a mortgage has been put
upon the property, as in this case, no remedy is complete,
which does not go to the cancellation of such deed, and the
complete reinvestment of the title in the plaintiff. It also
appears from the findings that appellant has received rents
from the property, that various sums bad been expended for
taxes and other purposes, that an accounting was necessary
in adjusting the rights of the parties, which could not be
effectually carried on in a court of law. There can be no
doubt of the jurisdiction of a court of equity in such case notwithstanding the expiration of the statutory time of redemption. Grafam v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 180; Blight's Heirs
v. Tobin, 7 T. B. Mon. 612; Day v. Graham, 1 Gilman, (6
Ill.) 435; -Morrisv. Robey, 73 Illinois, 462; Fergus v. Woodworth, 44 Illinois, 374; Bullen v. Dawson, 139 Illinois, 633;
Jenkins v. .Aerriweather, 109 Illinois, 647; State Bank v.
N7oland, 13 Arkansas, 299.
The appellant's brief deals largely with criticisms upon
the findings and upon the admission of testimony, which we
do not feel it necessary to discuss, as they do not involve the
merits of the case, which rest upon the undisputed facts.
It would be a reproach to a court of equity, if it could not
lay hold of such a transaction as this is shown to be, and set
aside a sale of property acquired under the forms of law and
in defiance of natural justice.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

