OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

change its situs) must be taken in connection with the provisions of the constitution existing at the time, and that while
the incorporators might take all the other rights, powers and
privileges granted by the charter, so far as to give them the
franchise to be a corporation and exercise the powers therein
granted, the immunit, of exemption would not pass under the
grant. It might possibly have been held, in a direct attack of
the State upon the charter, that there had been an unreasonable
delay in accepting it, and that consequently there was in law
no corporation under the charter. That course was not taken,
and the legislature, after the assumed organization under the
charter in 1884, passed an act changing the name of the corporation and permitting it to change its situs. It might, therefore, be claimed that it thereby recognized the existence of the
corporation under the charter, but in subordination to the constitution and laws existing at the time when the charter was
accepted.
We think upon these facts the exemption from taxation did
not pass to the corporation, and the assessments were in consequence legal and valid.
The judgment is, therefore,

PLANTERS'

INSURANCE

COMPANY v. TENNSSEE AND SHELBY

COUNTY, No. 679, by stipulation, is to abide the event of this cause.

HOME INSURANCE AND TRUST COMPANY v. TENNESSEE FOR THE USE OF MEMPHIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 672.

Argued and submitted January 20, 21, 22, 1896.-

Decided March 2,1896.

The charter of the Memphis Life and General Insurance Company contained
a provision "that there shall be a state tax of one half of one per cent
upon the amount of the capital actually paid in." The charter of'the
Home Insurance and Trust Company authorized that company to "or-

ROME INSURANCE COMPANY v. TENNESSEE.

199

Statement of the Case.
ganize with all the forms, officers, terms, powers, rights, reservations,
restrictions and liabilities gi'ven to and imposed upon the Memphis Life
and General Insurance Company." Held, that the Home Company was
not subject to the provision respecting taxation in the charter of the
Memphis Life Company.

THE plaintiffs below sought by this bill to recover certain
taxes against the Home Insurance Company, or its shareholders, under the general revenue laws of the State, at a greater
rate than the plaintiffs in error claimed they are liable to pay.
This case was also tried, on an agreed statement of facts, by
which it appears that on the 29th day of February, 1856, the
legislature of Tennessee passed an act incorporating the Home
Insurance Company. On March 20,1858, the legislature passed
an act, the fourteenth section of which provides: "That the
name of the Home Insurance Company of Memphis be changed
to that of the Home Insurance and Trust Company, and said
company may organize with all the forms, officers, terms,
powers, rights, reservations, restrictions and liabilities given
to and imposed upon the Memphis Life and General Insurance Company, provided nothing herein contained shall in
anywise be construed to release said company from any existing liability."
The present company organized under this charter. The
Memphis Life and General Insurance Company, referred to in
the above section, was chartered March 2, 1854, the thirtieth
section of which reads: "That there shall be a state tax of
one half of one per cent upon the amount of the capital
actually paid in." It is conceded that the Home Insurance
Company has regularly paid this tax. The Supreme Court
of Tennessee held that the shares of stock, the capital stock,
the surplus and franchises of the company were subject to
taxation, and that the exemption from taxation claimed by
it and its shareholders was not well founded. The court
rendered a decree against the company under the stipulation,
by which the company assumed the liability of its shareholders for taxes against them, from which decree plaintiffs in
error have prosecuted this writ of error.

