SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

action upon the contract between him and Halsell; and he
does not sue, and could not recover, upon a quantum meruit.
Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 16 How. 314, 337.
Judgment afirmed.

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 608. Argued November 19, 1895. - Decided March 2, 1896.
Upon a trial for murder, where the question is whether the killing was In
self-defence, evidence that the deceased was a larger and more powerful man than the defendant, as well as evidence that the deceased had
the general reputation of being a quarrelsome and dangerous man, is
competent evidence for the defendant.
Upon the question whether a homicide was committed in self-defence,
witnesses called by the defendant testified that the deceased had the
general reputation of being a man of a quarrelsome and dangerous character; and being asked on cross-examination whether they had ever
been arrested for anything, it appeared that one of them had been
arrested, convicted and imprisoned for selling whiskey, and others had
been arrested, but not convicted, for various offences. The judge instructed the jury that reputation was the reflection of character, and,
in order to be entitled to consideration, must come from a pure source,
and be the reflection of honest and conscientious men, who have character themselves; that, if a man is without character himself, his action
characterized by crime, his conscience seared by criminal conduct, he is
incompetent to know what character is; and that if it was the reflection
of keepers of gambling hells, and violators of law, and prison convicts,
the jury should cast it aside as so much worthless matter. Held, that
the defendant, having excepted to this instruction, and been convicted
of murder, was entitled to a new trial.

THIS was an indictment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Arkansas for the murder,
at the Cherokee Nation in the Indian Country, on September
27, 1894, of JOhn Welch, a negro and not an Indian, by shooting him with a pistol.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

At the trial, the government introduced evidence tending
to show that Welch and the defendant, about noon, at a fair
ground in Muscogee, at a spot close by their respective tents,
and near a merry-go-round, a dance hall, gambling places, refreshment booths, and other tents and buildings, and in the
presence of a crowd of people, fell into dispute; that the
defendant ran into his tent, and finding one Scott Gentry
inside, snatched Gentry's pistol from his belt, came out, and
shot and killed Welch; and that Welch was unarmed at the
time.
The defendant admitted the killing, and contended that he
did it in slf-defence; and, being called as a witness in his
own behalf, testified that he knew Welch, "was very nearly
raised up with him," and they had "tussled together all the
way up from boys ;" that Welch was a bigger and much
stronger man than himself; that he knew that Welch had
a pistol the night before; and that, when he shot Welch,
Welch was advancing, with his right hand at his hip pocket,
towards the defendant, and threatening to kill him.
The defendant also called witnesses, who testified that the
deceased had previously made threats against the defendant's
life; and five other witnesses, living at Muscogee, who testified that they had known Welch for years, and that he had
the general reputation of being a man of quarrelsome and
dangerous character.
Each of these five witnesses was asked by the district
attorney, on cross-examination, whether he had ever been
arrested for anything. In answer to this question, one of
them testified that he had been arrested, tried and acquitted
for murder; and had been arrested for gambling, and discharged. A second witness testified that he had been arrested for "fighting and gambling" only. A third witness
testified that he had once been arrested, three or four years
before, and brought to Fort Smith, for selling whiskey; and,
on reexamination, that the grand jury ignored the charge,
and that he had never been convicted of anything. A fourth
witness testified that he had been arrested for "fighting and
whiskey," but for nothing else, and had twice "served a jail

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

sentence for whiskey." The fifth Witness testified that he
had never been arrested for anything; and there was no
other evidence of the arrest or conviction of any of these
witnesses, or that any of them had anything to do with
keeping a gambling place.
The court, in the charge to the jury, instructed them as to
ihe evidence of the character of the -deceased as follows:
"Now, what is reputation? It is the reflection of character.
Character is the thing itself. It is that which a man makes
day after day, and hour after hour, and year after year, by
his bearing and conduct in the community where he lives.
If that thing is reflected by the words spoken by men of
credit, by men of standing, by men of pure character standing before you, that such reputation is so reflected as that
you can believe it, of course it is entitled to consideration and
to be taken in the case if it is applicable. But it is to come
from men who are morally and mentally competent to know
what it means. If a man is without character himself, if his
action has been characterized by crime, if his conscience has
been seared by criminal conduct, he is thus rendered incompetent to know what character is. He has none himself, and
he-is incompetent to determine when other men have one.
And above all is it necessary, important, and essential to the
interests of public justice, that justice should not be defeated
by men of that character scraped from the four corners of
the earth. You are to see to it that it comes from a pure
source; and then, again, you are to see to it that it is the
reflection, not by keepers of dives and gambling hells, and
violators of law, and prison convicts, but it is the reflection
of honest and conscientious men, of men who possess character themselves; men of integrity; .men whose judgments
make up in your community your character that you prize
so highly, because it is the opinion of honest, intelligent,
judicious and just men and women in your community.
That is the source, that character is to come from, and the
only source from which you can derive it in a reliable way.
If it does not come from that source, but comes from the
source I have designated, cast it aside as so much worthless

OCTOBER TER, , 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

matter invoked wrongfully in cases of this character." To
this instruction the defendant at the time excepted; and,
after being convicted and sentenced for murder, sued out
this writ of error.
.Mr. William 3L Cravens for plaintiff in error.
.Frederick was on his brief.

-Mr. C. J.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.
Miz. JusTocE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The main question in controversy at the trial was whether
the killing of Welch by the defendant was in self-defence.
Tpon that question any evidence, which, according to the
common experience of mankind, tended to show that the
defendant had reasonable cause to apprehend great bodily
harm from the conduct of the deceased towards him just
before the killing, was admissible; and upon principle, and by
the weight of authority, evidence that the deceased was a
larger and more powerful man than the defendant, as well
as evidence that the deceased bad the general reputation of
being a quarrelsome and dangerous person, was competent,
especially if his character in this respect was known to the
defendant, which there was evidence in this case tending to
show. Wiggin v. People, 93 U. S. 465; Allison v. United
States, 160 U. S. 203, 215; State v. Benham, 23 Iowa, 154;
Commonwealth v. Barnacle, 134 Mass. 215; Eurd v. People,
25 Michigan, 405; State v. Bryant, 55 Missouri, 75; Marts v.
State, 26 Ohio St. 162; State v. Vett, 50 Wisconsin, 524; State
v. Turpin, 77 No. Car. 473; Wharton on Hlomicide, (2d ed.)
§§ 606-623, and cases cited. In Ifiggin v. People, above 'referred to, evidence that "the deceased's general character was
bad, and that he was a dangerous, violent, vindictive and
brutal man," was admitted at the trial; and was assumed to
be competent, both in the opinion of this court delivered by

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Miller, and in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford. 93 U. S. 466, 470, 474.
The testimony introduced by the defendant to the character
of the deceased was therefore competent and material.
All that was shown, by way of impeaching the credibility
of any of the five witnesses who testified to this point, was
that one of them had been arrested, tried and acquitted for
murder, and had been arrested for gambling, and discharged;
another had been arrested for fighting and gambling; another
arrested for fighting and for selling whiskey; and another
arrested, convicted and imprisoned for selling whiskey. There
was no evidence that any of the witnesses, except this one,
had been convicted of any offence whatever, or that any one
of the five had anything to do with keeping a gambling place.
Yet the court, in instructing the jury as to the weight to be
given to the evidence of the character of the deceased: told
them that reputation was the reflection of character, and, in
order to be entitled to consideration, must "come from a pure
source," and be "the reflection of honest and conscientious
men, of men who possess character themselves, men of integrity, men whose judgments make up in your community your
character that you prize so highly, because it is the opinion of
honest, intelligent, judicious and just men and women in your
community;" and that "if a man is without character himself, if his action has been characterized by crime, if his conscience has been seared by criminal conduct, he is thus rendered
incompetent to know what character is; he has none himself,
and he is incompetent to determine when other men have
one;" and charged the jury "to see to it that it is the reflection not by keepers of dives and gambling hells, and violators
of law, and prison convicts," and, if it.comes from that source,
to "cast it aside as so much worthless matter invoked wrongfully in cases of this character."
This heaping up of injurious epithets upon the witnesses,
coupled with the injunction (which could have no application
to anything before the court except their testimony) to "cast
it aside as so much worthless matter invoked wrongfully,"
could not have been understood by the jury otherwise thah as

OCTOBER TER.I,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

a command to disregard all the testimony introduced in behalf
of the defendant, bearing upon the character of the deceased
as a quarrelsome and dangerous man.
The character of a quarrelsome and dangerous man is not
always so well known to peaceable and law-abiding citizens,
that their testimony upon the subject can be had. In this, as
in other matters involved in the administration of the criminal
law, it is often necessary to resort to those who are more
familiar with the persons between whom, and the places in
which, quarrels and aff rays are apt to take place.
iNo doubt has been suggested as to the competency of any
of the witnesses in question ; and their credibility was a matter to be determined by the jury. The judge having, in effect,
peremptorily withdrawn this matter from their consideration,
the defendant is entitled to a new trial. Hicks v. United
States, 150 U. S. 442; Starr v. United States, 153 U. S. 614;
Allison v. United States, 160 U. S. 203.
It is, to say the least, doubtful whether evidence of an arrest
only, not followed by a conviction, is competent to affect the
credibility of a witness. Ryan v. People, 79 N. Y. 593; 'Van
Boklelen v. Berdell, 130 N. Y. 1,1. But such evidence having been admitted without objection as to these witnesses, and
having been previously introduced by the defendant's counsel
in cross-examining the witnesses for the government, the
expression of a decisive opinion upon it would be out of place.
It becomes unnecessary to consider the other exceptions to
the rulings and instructions of the court.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new triaL.

