HARRISON v. FORTLAGE.
Statement of the Case.

aside, except upon judicial proceedings instituted in behalf of
the United States. The only remedy of Emblen is by bill in
equity to charge Weed with a trust in his favor. All this is
clearly settled by previous decisions of this court, including
some of those on which the petitioner most relies. Johonv.
TowZey, 13 Wall. 72; Moore v. Robbinm, 96 U. S. 530; Marquez
v. Fribie,101 U. S. 473; Smelting Co. v. -Eemp,104 U. S. 636;
Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S.447; Xonroe Cattle Co. v.
Becker, 147 U. S. 47; Turner v. Sawyer, 150 .U.S. 578, 586.
Writ of mandamus denied.

HARRISON v. FORTLAGE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE, UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 14. Argued November 18, 1894. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

A contract for the sale of gobds "shipping or -to be shipped during this
month from the Philippines to Philadelphia, per steamer Empress of
India," at a certain price ,"ex ship "; "sea-damaged, If any, to be taken
at a fair allowance; no arrival, no.sale;" and providing that if, by any
unforeseen accident, she is unable to load and no other steamer can be
procured within the month, the contract Is to be void; does not require'
the goods to be carried to their destination by the vessel named; and is
satisfied if the goods are put on board of her at the Philippines at the
time specified, and, upon her being so injured on the voyage by perils of
the sea as to be unable to carry them on, are forwarded by her master by
another steamer to Philadelphia.

THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought April 22, 1890, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, by Hermann Fortlage and others, aliens,
partners under the name of A. Tesdorpf & Company, against
Charles C. Harrison and others, citizens of Pennsylvania, partners under the name of Harrison, Frazier & Company, upon a
contract in writing for the purchase of 2500 tons of sugar.
The facts admitted or proved at the trial were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The plaintiffs' agent signed, and the defendants accepted, a.
contract in writing in the following terms:
"New York, June 22, 1889.
"Messrs. Harrison, Frazier & Co., Philadelphia.
"Dear Sirs: I have this day sold you, for account of MessrsA. Tesdorpf & Co., of London, about 2500 tons superior Iloilo
sugars, usual- assortment, (- No. 1, j No. 2, and f No. 3,) shipping or to be shipped during this month from the Philippines
to Philadelphia, per steamer Empress of India, at 5j c. per
pound ex ship, net landed weights, two per cent tare, cash,
less 2* per cent, in ten days from average date of discharge.
"Sea-damaged, if any, to be taken at a fair allowance.
"No arrival, no sale.
"Should the steamer, through any unforeseen circumstance,
such as accidents of the seas, stress of weather, &c., be unable
to load these sugars within the time specified, and the sellers
cannot secure other steam tonnage to load in -June, this contract is to be void."
The words "ex ship," as used in this contract, were understood in the trade to mean that the buyer receives the goods
at the tackle of the ship, the seller paying the freight and the
duty, and the buyer paying all charges of landing after the
goods leave the ship's tackle.
The plaintiffs were merchants; and the defendants, as the
plaintiffs knew, were refiners of sugar, and bought this sugar
for use in their regular business.
The sugar was shipped at the Philippine Islands, in bags, in
the amount, quality and assortment, and within the time, specified in the contract, on the steamer Empress of India, which
was then seaworthy and fit in every particular for her voyage,
and which sailed for Philadelphia, via the Suez Canal, June
23, 1889. The usual length of the voyage was three months,
unless prolonged by accident or by perils 6f the sea.
On August 21, 1889, the Empress of India, while at anchor
at Port Said, was, without her fault, run into by another
steamer, and so much damaged as to be obliged to land her

HARRISON v. FORTLAGE.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

cargo, and to go to Alexandria to be repaired. After being
repaired, and reloading her cargo, she sailed from Port Said,
November 30, 1889; and, in crossing the Atlantic, met with
extraordinarily rough weather, and was forced to put into
Bermuda, January 5, 1890; and there, upon the recommendation of surveyors, and in order to enable her to proceed on
her voyage with safety, discharged 700 tons of the sugar.
On February 11, 1890, she arrived at Philadelphia, with the
remaining 1800 tons of the sugar on board. The 700 tons
were forwarded from Bermuda by another steamer, which
arrived at Philadelphia, March 3, 1890.
The plaintiffs tendered all the sugar to the defendants;
and they refused to receive any of it, upon the sole ground
that the contract required the sugar to be brought to Philadelphia in the Empress of India, and therefore the plaintiffs
had not performed the contract.
The sugar was sold, by agreement of the parties, and for
whom it might concern, for less than the contraot price; and
it was admitted that, if the plaintiffs were entitled to recover
at all, the measure of damages was the sum of $63,098, the
difference between the contract price and the proceeds of the
sale.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury that the plaintiffs
were not required by the contract to do more than they had
done, and that the defendants were not warranted in declining
to receive the sugar; and the jury, by direction of the court,
returned a verdict for the plaintiffs for the sum claimed, and
interest, upon which judgment was rendered. The defendants
excepted to the instruction and direction of the court, and
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. John G. Johnson for plaintiffs in error.
I. An arrival by the Empress of India was a condition
precedent.
That this is so, and that the words are not words of contract, but of condition, seems settled by the remark of Parke,
B., in Johnson v. Macdonald, 9 M. & W., 600, 603, and the

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

decision there. That is, no obligation is assumed by the
seller that the goods shall be carried at all, much less that
they shall be carried by a particular ship. But he is not to be
bound to deliver or the purchaser to accept unless the goods
reach Philadelphia in that ship. The contract was not a sale
-it was a contract to'sell, which became a sale only on performance of the conditions precedent, whatever they were,
among which it was admitted loading within time was one,
and arrival of the sugar at Philadelphia was another. That
-, until and unless the goods arrived there was no sale, no
duty to tender, no duty to accept, no title had passed, no
ownership existed in the purchaser. This was admitted
below, and probably will be in this court. The authorities
are numerous, and will be found collected in Neldon v. Smith,
7 Vroom, (36 N. J. Law,) 148. It is a contract to sell the
goods when they arrive. Stocldale v. .Dunlop, 6 M. & W.
224, Parke, B. The best test, however, is that the purchasers
have no insurable interest in the property. Stookdale v. Dun,
opub. up.
In contending that arrival, which is a condition precedent
to the sale, extends to ship as well as cargo, i.e., means arrival
of cargo by that ship, we submit the following considerations
looking to the contract alone for the reasons:
It is a precedent condition in all contracts of sale that there
is a subject of sale. Benjamin on Sales, ยง 669.
The sale here is made to depend on arrival-no arrival,no
sale. Therefore, till there is an arrival there can be no subject
of sale.
It might be 'supposed to be, if the words 'are not carefully
weighed, a condition avoiding the sale, but it is not, for no
title is to pass till arrival, and that is the test, whether the
transaction is a sale or a contract to sell. That the sugar did
not, till arrival, become the subject of a sale is shown by
Bowes v. Shand, 2 App. Cas. 455, and accords with plaintiffs'
own views as shown by their evidence.
The property that is contracted to be sold, and that was to
be the thing sold, on the happening of the future event (arrival), is the thing described in the contract - sugar - and

HARRISON v. FORTIAGE.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

among the terms there is this one: that it is to be shipped to
Philadlphiaper Empress of India.
It may not be amiss to point out a consequence of reading
the contract as it was asked to be read, viz., that arrival of
the sugar was the one only condition precedent and that the
mode of arriving was immaterial. It will follow that one of
the most important rights of a shipper is lost by' the plaintiff
and given to no one. This is the right of electing to permit
the goods to be forwarded or to accept them at the port of
distress. The shipper always has such a right; if he declines
exercising it, the master may, by forwarding, impose a very
heavy burden on his goods.
If, therefore, he has undertaken to deliver in the event of
the arrival of the goods, regardless of the ship, he cannot
avoid the duty because the burden becomes too great. Intentionally to divert the goods would be a fraud on the contract,
if his object was to avoid his obligation to deliver. Hawes v.
-Humble, 2 Camp. 327, n. If arrival by the ship is the condition, he is discharged altogether by the misfortune to that
ship. Idle v. TWornton, 3 Camp. 274.
It is this that is the basis of the decision of the Court of
Exchequer in Lovatt v. Hamilton, 5 M. & W. 639, which the
judge at the trial disinctly refused to follow. He would not
see that if the arrival by the ship is not part of the condition,
the seller will be subjected to very different responsibilities
than if the contract is to deliver on the arrival of the goods
only. Hale v. Rawson, 4 C. B. (N. S.) 85, is an illustration of
the effect of confining the condition to the arrival of the ship
only. The obligation to deliver the goods was held to be
absolute though there were none on board.
It being admitted that arrival of some kind is a condition
precedent, the inquiry arises does this contract belong to the
class known as contracts to arrive, which are classified in
Benjamin on Sales, ยง 586. The contract concludes with "no
arrival, no sale." All the duty of the purchaser must be
wrapped up in that one word arrival. The authorities agree
that the word "arrival " does not apply to the goods only,
but to the ship as well. -Idle v. Thornton, 3 Camp. 274;

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

)Sields v. Pettie, 4 Comst. 122; Johnson v. Macdonald, 9 M.
& W. 600; Stookdale v. Dunlop, 6 11i. & W. 224; Lovatt v.
tainilton, 5 M. & W. 639; Hawes v. Humble, 2 Camp. 328,
n.; H ale v. Rawson, 4 0. B. (N. S.) 85. Unless the words
exclude the construction, the condition to arrive, if a ship is
named, aeans the arriyal of that ship, with the cargo.
II. It follows that a delivery by the Trinidad was not a
delivery by the Empress of India for the purposes of this con-

tract. That it was for the purpose of enabling the Empress
to earn the agreed freight is nothing to the purpose. There
is no connection between the contract to sell and the contract
with the carrier to carry. The phrase that a master is the agent
of all concerned has nothing to do with the case. It applies
perfectly to the seller, who was the owner, and to the insurer,
and to any one having a right in or to the sugar, but we had
none. We could not insure; we had no insurable interest.
Stockdale v. -Dunlop,6 M. & W. 224, decides the very point.
The English and American cases differ as to the duty of the
master to forward; but in this case there was no duty, even
under the American rule. Griswold v. New York Ins. Co., 3
Johns. 327.
Whose agent then was the master? How could he be agent
for one not having an interest in the cargo? He was agent of
the shipowner to earn the freight, say all the authorities.
Australia,&Navigation Co. v. JMorse, L. R. 4 P. C. 222; Cargo
ex Argus, L. R. 5 P. C. 134, 164; .Hotarav. Henderson, L. SR.
7 Q. B. 225; Shipton v. Thornton, 9 Ad. & El. 314; flickie
v. Rodocanachi, 4 H. & N. 455; V'lierboom, v. eCkapman, 13
M. & W. 230; L. R. 1 Ad. & Ec. 293; Heyworth, v. Hutchinson, L. SR. 2 Q. B. 447; 147eilt v. Wh.itworlh, 18 C. 3. (N. S.)
435.
If the parties stipulate for delivery by a certain vessel, there
can be no other delivery substituted for it. Bowes v. Shand,
2 App. Cas. 455; Cleveland Rolling Mill v. Rhodes, 121 U. S.
255; Coddington v. Paleologo, (per Martin B.,) L. R. 2 Ex.
193, 197.
In fact, if we discard the uniform rule in England, founded
on Baron Parke's suggestion in Johnson v. iacdonald,supra,

HARRISON v. FORTLAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

we have a stipulation for loading in a particular steamer,
which is a condition, but qu4 all that relates to the mode of
transportation, there is neither contract nor condition. The
seller, in the event of disaster, and the shipowner, are each
given an option as to that, but not the purchaser. Which is
the more reasonable construction of a contract resting on
mutual promises? See Iasigi v. Rosenstein, 141 N. Y. 414.
.Mr. William Allen Butler, (with whom was Mr. Wilkelmus
Mynderse on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The single question is whether the contract between the
parties required all the sugar to be brought to Philadelphia in
the Empress of India, upon which it was originally shipped.
This depends upon the meaning of the terms of the writing in
which the parties must be assumed to have embodied and expressed their whole intention, and to have defined all the conditions of the contract. The court is not at liberty, either to
disregard words used by the parties, descriptive of the subject
matter, or of any material incident, or to insert words which
the parties have not made use of. Norrington v. }fright, 115
U. S. 188; Filley v. Pope, 115 U. S. 213; Watts v. Camors,
115 U. S. 353 ; Cleveland Rolling Mill v. Rhodes, 121 U. S.
255 ; Seitz v. Brewers' Refrigerating Co., 141 U. S. 510; Bowee

v. Shand, 2 App. Cas. 455; Welsh v. Gossler, 89 N. Y. 540;
Cunningham v. Judson, 100 N. Y. 179 ; fasiqi v. Rosenstein,
144 N. Y. 414.
This contract was made in June, 1889, for the sale of sugar,
described as "shipping or to be shipped during this month from
the Philippines to Philadelphia, per steamer Empress of India."
A contract " to ship by" a certain vessel for a particular voyage ordinarily means simply " to put on board," not including
the subsequent carriage; and there is nothing in this contract
to show that a different meaning was in the contemplation of
the parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The words "ex ship" are not restricted to any particular
ship; and by the usage of merchants, as shown in this case,
simply denote that the property in the goods shall pass to the
buyer upon their leaving the ship's tackle, and that he shall
be liable for all subsequent charges of landing. They do not
constitute a condition of the contract, but are inserted for the
benefit of the seller. See Neill v. Mkitworth, 18 0. B. (N. S.)
435, and L. R. 1 C.P. 684.
The clause "sea-damaged, if any, to be taken at a fair allowance," contemplates the risk of damag3 to the goods by
perils of the sea, and does not restrict to any particular ship
the subsequent transportation of such goods to their destination.
In the clause "no arrival, no sale," the word "arrival" evidently refers, as the word "sale" must necessarily refer, to
the goods which are the subject of the contract, and not to
the particular vessel on which they are shipped; and the
whole effect of the clause is that, if the goods never arrive at
their destination, the buyers acquire no property in them, and
do not become liable to the sellers for the price.
The remaining clause, which provides that, if the Empress of
India, by unforeseen accident, is unable to load in June, and
the sellers cannot secure another steamer during that month,
the contract is to be void, touches the matter of loading only.
The contract fixes no limitation of time in any other respect.
The contract nowhere requires that the sugar shall arrive at
Philadelphia by the Empress of India; and essentially differs
in this respect from the cases, cited at the bar, of contracts for
the sale of goods "to arrive" by, or "on the arrival" of, a
ship named, as in .Zovattv. Hamilton, 5 M. & W. 639; Johnson
v. .Macdonald.9 K. & W. 600; and Bale v. Rawson, 4 0. B.
(N. S.) 85. A particular ship being designated as to the putting on board only, and not as to the arrival, it is not to be
inferred that the goods must be carried to their destination in
the same ship.
The sugar in question having been put on board the Empress of India, and the conditions of the contract thus satisfied,
so far as that ship was concerned, the subsequent transportation and delivery of the goods were to be governed by the

