CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

115

Syllabus.

property before the end of the year;" and it was held to
operate a stay of execution.
But in the case in hand the judgment records are complete
and perfect in themselves, and executions were thereby ordered to issue. The entries as to stay purported to be memoranda of an agreement of counsel, were evidently placed where
they were as memoranda merely, and did not form part of the
judgments. Even if the entries could be treated as the act of
the court, and the executions were improperly issued, which
is not to be presumed under the circumstances disclosed by
this record, they would not have been absolutely void and incapable of being validated.
So far as appears, Beebe never took any steps to quash the
executions or to vacate the levy, if any ground existed for
doing so, and the evidence that they issued and were levied
was admitted without objection on the trial. We regard the
position now taken ,n his behalf as destitute of merit. The
Circuit Court properly excluded the deed of March 22, 1877,
and, this being so, no error was committed in the charge to
the jury.
Judgment affvrmed.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY, who was not present at the argument,
and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, who was not then a member of
the court, took no part in the decision.

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY.
kPPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 642. Submitted December 23, 1895. - Decided March 2, 1896.

A bill in equity by a corporation, or by the stockholders of a corporatioR,
in a Circuit Court of the United States, to set aside a final decree of that
court against the corporation in a foreclosure suit, upon the ground that
the decree was obtained by collusion and fraud and that the court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
no jurisdiction to make it, is an ancillary suit and a continuation of the
main suit so far as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of the
United States is concerned.
As the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States was invoked
throughout this litigation upon the ground of diverse citizenship, and as
this bill must be regarded as ancillary, auxiliary or supplemental to the
iult for the foreclosure of the mortgage, or, as it were, in continuation
thereof, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in. that suit being
made final by section 6, of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 5172 26 Stat. 826,
no appeal lies to this court.

THIs was a bill filed by Carey, a citizen and resident of
New Jersey, and seven other persons, citizens and residents of
New, York and citizens of Great Britain, respectively, as stockholders of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company,
in their own behalf and in behalf of all others similarly situated, in 'the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Texas, against the Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company, No. 1, a corporation created by and existing under the laws of the State of Texas and a citizen of that
State, residing in the Eastern District; the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company, No. 2, likewise a citizen of Texas
and a resident of the eastern district; the Central Trust Company of New York, a citizen of New York; the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company of New York, as trustee, a citizen
of New York; Nelson S. Easton and James Rintoul, as trustees, citizens, and residents of New York; Benjamin A. Shepherd, trustee, a citizen of Texas; and many other persons and
corporations, citizens of New York, Kentucky, Texas, and Louisiana; to impeach and vacate a certain decree of the Circuit
Court entered in the consolidated cause hereafter mentioned.
The Houston and Texas Central Railway Company was a
corporation -and citizen of the State of Texas and a resident
of the Eastern District of that State, owning a railway consisting of a main line from Houston to Dennison; a line from
Hempstead to Austin, called the Western Division; and a line
from Bremond to Ross, known as the Waco and Northwestern Division; and a large quantity of lands acquired from
the State. The property of the company was subject to the,
lien of seven mortgages, known as the Main Line first mort-

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

117

Statement of the Case.

gage, Western Division first mortgage, Waco and Northwestern Division first mortgage, Main Line and Western
Division consolidated mortgage, Waco and Northwestern
Division consolidated mortgage, Income and Indemnity
mortgage, and General mortgage. The company made default January 1, 1885, in the payment of interest on its Main
Line first mortgage bonds and its Western Division first
mortgage bonds. On February 11, 1885, Nelson S. Easton
and James Rintoul, citizens and residents of the State of New
York, trustees under the Main Line first mortgage and Western Division first mortgage, filed their two bills in equity in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Texas against the Houston and, Texas Central Railway
Company as a corporation and citizen of the State of Texas
for the purpose of enforcing the trust provided in the mortgages, protecting the trust property, obtaining proceedings
for the sale of certain lands covered by the mortgages, and
for other relief ; and prayed for an accounting, an injunction,
a decree of sale of part of the trust property, and for a receiver.
These suits were numbered 183 and 184 on the equity docket
The railway company appeared and answered these bills.
On February 16, 1885, the Southern Development Company, a corporation organized under the laws of California
and a citizen and resident of that State, in its own behalf and
in behalf of all other persons similarly situated, who might
intervene in the suit to protect their own interests, filed its
bill of complaint in the Circuit Court against the railway
company as a corporation organized under the laws of Texas,
alleging among other things that it was a creditor of the defendant for large sums advanced for supplies, labor, operating
and managing expenses, and other necessary expenses, which
defendant had promised to pay out of its earnings; that the
indebtedness was in equity a charge upon defendant's income
and property; that there had been a diversion of the income
and that by reason thereof a lien had resulted in complainant's
favor which it was entitled to have enforced. The bill alleged
the absolute insolvency of the railway company and that loss
and injury would be occasioned by a sale of the property in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

parcels, and prayed for the appointment of receivers and the
payment of complainant's claim out of the rents, revenues,
and earnings of the property. The railway company appeared
in this suit, which was numbered 185, and on February 20,
1885, an order was made by the Circuit Court appointing Benjamin G. Clark and Charles Dillingham joint receivers of all
the property, real and personal, of said company. On the succeeding twentieth of April, the Southern Development Company amended its bill, making Nelson S. Easton and James
Rintoul, trustees; the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a corporation and citizen of the State of New York; and Benjamin
A. Shepherd, trustee, under the Income and Indemnity mortgage, a citizen of Texas and a resident of the Eastern District
of that State, defendants thereto, and praying that accounts
might be taken, liens and incumbrances marshalled, net earnings applied, and if the amounts realized should not be sufficient for the payment of the claim, that the property should
be sold for that purpose. The railway company answered
the bill on its merits, and the defendants Easton and iRintoul,
trustees, filed demurrers.
March 18, 1885, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a
corporation and citizen of New York, filed its bill in equity in
the Circuit Court against the railway company, which was
numbered 188 on the equity docket, alleging that it was the
trustee under the Waco and Northwestern Division first and
consolidated mortgages, and the Main Line and Western Division consolidated mortgages; that the mortgagors had violated
many of their agreements and that default had been made in
the payment of interest; that the company was insolvent;
that the suits hereinbefore mentioned were pending; that the
trust property was in jeopardy; and it prayed for an accounting, injunction and a decree of sale of part of the trust property and for a receiver of all the property of every description
of the railway company, with the usual powers. The railway
company answered this bill on the merits, June 22, 1885.
The Circuit Court made three orders on May 7, 1885, in
these cases: In No. 185, as to sales of lands and their proceeds, and directing the receivers to account; in Nos. 183 and

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

119

Statement of the Case.

184, making that order applicable to those cases; and in No.
188, making the same order as to that case.
January 21, 1886, Easton and Rintoul, trustees in the two
mortgages involved in Nos. 183 and 184, citizens of the State
of New York, filed two other bills in equity for the foreclosure and sale of the railway property covered by those mortgages; that to foreclose the -Main Line first mortgage was
numbered 198, and that to foreclose the Western Division
first mortgage was numbered 199. In No. 198 complainants made the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company
and Benjamin A. Shepherd, a citizen and resident of Texas,
and trustee under the Income and Indemnity mortgage, defendants, and as to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
averred that as trustees under the mortgages or deeds of trust,
"hereinafter described, that company would be found benefited by, and it is to their advantage that, the judgment and
relief hereinafter prayed for, or some part thereof, should be
granted to your orators. That said property covered by the
said first mortgage on said main line, as well as all the other
property, assets, and effects of said railway company, being
now in the hands of this court, by the receivership existing in
respect of the same, and your orators thereby being required
by law to institute this action in this court and to come before
this tribunal, in order to reach the property in its possession,
and to obtain its rights concerning the same, and all the parties
interested in the property covered by said mortgage on the
main line, as well as all the other mortgages anid property
of said rail way company, being now before the court in said
actions hereinbefore described as Nos. 183, 184, 185, and 188,
on the equity docket of this court, the said Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company may and should be made a party defendant in this cause irrespective of its citizenship. And said corporation should be brought in as a defendant herein by the
order and direction of this court, and should be bound by the
judgment and proceedings herein."
The record does not show that this company was made a
defendant or appeared at this stage of the proceedings.
In No. 199 the same parties were joined as defendants and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

a like averment made as to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company. Process was issued under both of these bills against
the railway company and Shepherd, trustee, and duly served
upon them. Thereafter, and on April 24, 1886, the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company filed a bill in equity in the Circuit
Court for the foreclosure of the general mortgage, which was
numbered 201. The railway company was made sole party
defendant, and the bill prayed for a sale of all the property
of the railway company to satisfy the mortgage debt. Process was issued and served.
On May 26, 1886, an order was entered by Mr. Justice
Woods and the Circuit Judge in the six suits upon the mortgages, whereby it was ordered, adjudged and decreed that no
further proceedings should be taken in causes Nos. 183, 184,
and 188, without notice to the railway company, and that
causes Nos. 198, 199, and 201 should be consolidated under
No. 198, under the name and style of ".Nelson S. Easton and
James Rintoul, Trustees, and the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, Trustee, against The Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company and Benjamin Shepherd, Trustee, consolidated cause;" that, in said cause Easton and Rintoul should
stand as complainants, as trustees under the mortgages made
by the defendant railway company, dated respectively July 1,
1866, and December 21, 1870; that the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, expressly assenting thereto, should stand
as complainant, as trustee under the mortgages made by the
railway company, dated, respectively, June 16, 1873, October
1, 1872, May 1, 1875, and April 1, 1881; that Shepherd should
stand as defendant, as trustee under the mortgage made by
the railway company, dated May 7, 1877; that the bills filed
in causes Nos. 198, 199, and 201 should stand as bills in the
consolidated cause, and might be amended by either complainant, as it might be advised, and that any party might file an
answer to any original or amended bill; and that in case any
one or more of the bills filed by the complainants, in the
causes consolidated, should be finally dismissed, the remaining
bill or bills should continue to stand as the bill in such consolidated cause. On the same day an order was made in said

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

121

Statement of the Case.

consolidated cause No. 198, appointing Nelson S. Easton,
James Rintoul, and Charles Dillingham, receivers of all the
property of the railway company, and directing Clark and
Dillingham, as receivers in No. 185, to immediately transfer
and deliver all said property to the receivers so appointed.
May 27, 1886, and after the possession of all the property in
controversy had passed into the hands of Easton and Rintoul
and Dillingham, as receivers, the court made a decree dismissing the bill of the Southern Development Company in No.
185 for want of equity, and declared and directed that "all
said property being now in the custody of the court, and such
custody and control being continuous, the entry of this decree
shall operate ipsofacdo a transfer of the legal custody of said
property from said Clark and Dillingham to the said receivers
in No. 198." Various amendments were subsequently filed.
The railway company answered in consolidated cause No.
198, September 3, 1886. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, though cocomplainant in the consolidated cause, answered the bills of Easton and Rintoul, trustees, August 2,
1886.
On April 30, 1888, Shepherd, trustee, with leave of court,
filed a cross-bill in No. 198 to foreclose the Income and Indemnity mortgage, and the railway company answered admitting the truth thereof.
On May 1, 1888, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
filed bills in the nature of cross-bills, with leave of court, to
foreclose the Main Line and Western Division consolidated
mortgage and the Waco and Northwestern Division consolidated mortgage. The railway company answered these bills
May 2, 1888, and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
answered Shepherd's cross-bill on the same day. All the
mortgages were thus under foreclosure except the Waco and
Northwestern Division first mortgage.
On May 4, 1888, the court made its decree of foreclosure and
sale in consolidated cause No. 198. The property was sold
under the decree September 8, 1888, at Galveston, Texas.
The property covered by the Waco and Northwestern Division first mortgage was purchased subject to that mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

gage by George E. Downs for $25,000, and all the residue
of the property of the railway company was sold to Frederick P. Olcott, president of the Central Trust Company,
for $10,580,000. The sale was duly confirmed December 4,
1888.
On December 23, 1889, Carey and others, as stockholders.
of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, filed
their bill in the Circuit Court for the vacation of said sale and
decree; and an amended bill February 18, 1890. The contents of these pleadings are largely set forth in Carey v.
.Houston& Texas Railway, 150 U. S. 170. The gravamen of
the bill was that the decree was entered through collusion and
fraud.' Briefly, the bill alleged that prior to 1883, defendant
Huntington, who, with his associates, controlled the Southern
Development Company, formed a syndicate with them for the
purpos"of acquiring, in his own interest and in the interest of
that company, and of the Southern Pacific Company, the control of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company in
such manner that the railway might be run solely in the interest of the syndicate and the Southern 'Pacific Company,
the rights of the stockholders being effectually shut out and
barred. The bill further alleged that in January, 1885, the
holders of the first mortgage bonds presented their coupons
for payment, and it was fraudulently contrived by Huntington
and his associates so that the coupons were cashed and secretly
taken up by the Southern Development Company, without
notice to the holders thereof; that thereupon that company
commenced suit against the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company in the Circuit Court, and in February, 1885,
the appointment of receivers was procured in that suit, the
order being made with the consent of the railway company
through its solicitors; that subsequently defendants Easton
and Rintoul, trustees, filed their bills in the Circuit Court for
foreclosure, and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company filed
its bill, which said bills were numbered 198, 199, and 201, and
the causes were by consent consolidated as No. 198; that the
suit of the Southern Development Company was dismissed,
and thereupon receivers of the railway company were am

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

123

Statement of the Case.

pointed in the consolidated cause, the company through their
counsel consenting. It was also averred that in none of the
mortgages was it provided that the failure to pay interest
upon any of the bonds should be taken to precipitate the
maturity of the principal, nor did they provide for nor permit
the sale of the railway prior to the maturity of the principal
of the bonds; and that the answer of the railway company in
said suits expressly denied that the principal sum of the bonds
•had become due or demandable, and averred that the court
had no power to decree a sale of the railway prior to the maturity thereof or prior to the sale of the lands covered by the
mortgages.
The bill then set-up an agreement for the reorganization of
the railway company, and alleged that in pursuance thereof
and of the scheme mapped out, complainants in the .consolidated causes applied for and on consent procured to be entered the decree of May 4, 1888, for the foreclosure of the
mortgages, and a sale of the property, and the sale followed
accordingly.
The bill charged that "the said decree was and is absolutely
invalid and void and beyond the power of the court to grant;
that there was no foundation for said decree or jurisdiction in
the court to award it, and that the same was. entered by consent and agreement and without any investigation or adjudication by the court, but was the result of agreement simply,
and was procured, as complainants allege on information and
belief, by collusion* and fraud on the part of said Huntington and his associates and the directors and officers of said
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, and was and
is a part of the scheme to acquire possession of said railway
in the interest of said Huntington and the said Southern
Pacific Company without regard to the rights or interests of
the holders. of the stock of the said company No. 1 and in
direct disregard of the provisions and terms of the mortgages;
that the defences interposed that the principal of the mortgages had not become due and that the said railway could not
be sold without a sale first of the lands and the other defences
interposed were substantially abandoned and withdrawn as

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

part of the said wrongful and fraudulent scheme herein referred
to; that the said defences were never submitted to the court
for adjudication or determination, nor was evidence heard or
offered to sustain the same, but the decree was the result of
the agreement which the bondholders had made with the said
Southern Pacific Company and Central Trust Company, and
the rights of the stockholders were not considered or protected
by any of the parties to the record in said cause, nor submitted
to the court for adjudication or investigation, nor were the
stockholders in any way advised or permitted to be informed
of the transaction herein complained of."
It was further averred that the decree fixed no amount
due, and no amount which the company was required to pay
to redeem, and that it contradicted the provisions of the
mortgages.
The organization of a company styled the Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company, designated in the bill as
No. 2, after possession under the sale was acquired, for the
purpose of operating the railway, was then set up, and the
terms on which the stockholders of the original company
were informed September 1, 1889, they could participate in
the new company, which required payment of an enormous
and unnecessary assessment, and constituted an attempt to
-compel the stockholders of company No. 1 to turn over their
.stock to Huntington and his associates, etc. The prayer of the
bill was that the decree rendered by the court May 4, 1888,
in the consolidated cause, be vacated and set aside and adjudged to be, fraudulent, collusive, illegal, and void, and that
complainants be permitted to intervene and become parties
defendant in said suit, and be heard and defend the same;
that the sale of the railway and lands of the Houston and
Texas Central Railway Company, No. 1, under said decree
be vacated and set aside, and the said railway and lands be
restored to the possession of the receivers; that defendants
'be enjoined temporarily and perpetually from delivering or
recording any mortgage upon the property of the company
referred to in said decree, and from issuing, alienating or parting with any of the shares of stock of the new or reorganized

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

125

Statement of the Case.

Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, No. 2, or any
bonds secured by mortgage upon any property claimed to be
possessed by said company, or any stock or bonds issued or intended to be issued pursuant to the reorganization agreement;
and for general relief.
The principal defendants at first demurred, and then
answered the bill, denying the allegations upon which complainants sought to impeach the validity of the decree of the
Circuit Court in the foreclosure proceedings and the other
transactions referred to. Complainants filed replications. A
motion for an injunction pendente lite was denied. 45 Fed.
Rep. 438.
The cause came on for final hearing on the pleadings and
proofs November 16, 1892, and the Circuit Court entered a
final decree dismissing the bill as to all the defendants with
costs. 52 Fed. Rep. 671.
Complainants prayed two appeals from this decree, one to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and the
other to this court. The appeals were allowed, citations issued
and assignments of errors filed. On motion of appellees, the
appeal to this court was dismissed November 13, 1893. Carey
v. Houston & Texas Central Railway, 150 U. S. 170. The
case on the appeal taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals was
heard by that court, Circuit Judge McCormick presiding, and
on June 5, 1894, being one of the days of November term,
1893, a decree was rendered affirming the decree of the Circuit
Court.
May 2, 1895, a petition was presented to Circuit Judge
McCormick, praying the allowance of an appeal from the
decree to this court, which on the same day was allowed by
an order in writing upon the petition, and at the same time a
citation was signed, and a cost bond approved. The petition
for appeal and the order allowing the same and the bond
and an assignment, of errors were all filed May 2, 1895, in
the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
record was filed here June 4, 1895, and appellees now move
to dismiss the.appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. J. liubley Ashton, 3fr. E B.
Adrian H. Joline for the motion.

r'tuttschnitt, and -r.

-Mr. Jefferson Ohandler, .r. A. J.Dittenhoefer, _Mr. George
Clark, and Jfr. Russell H. Landale, opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, it is provided that appeals may be taken
from the Circuit Courts directly to this court "in any case in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such cases the
question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme
Court from the court below for decision." And we held in
respect of the direct appeal to this court taken from the
decree of the Circuit Court in this cause that such an appeal
was not authorized simply because the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over another suit previously determined by the
same court, might be involved, and we said: "It is the jurisdiction of the court below over the particular case in which
the appeal from the, decree therein is prosecuted, that, being
in issue and decided against the party raising it and duly
certified, justifies such an appeal directly to this court. This
suit to impeach the decree of May 4, 1888, and to prevent the
consummation of the alleged plan of reorganization, was a
separate and distinct case, so far as this inquiry is concerned,
from a suit to foreclose the mortgages on the railroad property; and no question of jurisdiction over the foreclosure suit
or the rendition of the decree passed therein can be availed
of to sustain the present appeal from the decree in this
proceeding." Carey v. Houston & Texas Central Railway,
150 U. S.170, 180.
We are quite content with the conclusion there reached,
for this suit is in itself unquestionably a distinct suit in
the sense in which those words were used in disposing of the
former appeal; and in respect of it the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court was not in issue, nor was any question of juris-

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

diction certified. Carey and his cocomplainants did not intervene in consolidated cause No. 198, and seek to have the
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court therein certified to this couft and appeal directly therefrom, nor did they
file a bill of review for error of law apparent in that the Circuit Court took jurisdiction as a court of the United States.
The gravamen of the bill they did file was fraud and collusion,
and the allegations of want of jurisdiction relate to prematurity in the attempt to foreclose or to other matters not
bearing on the jurisdiction of the Federal courts as such.
And the prayer was that the decree be vacated and adjudged
fraudulent, collusive, illegal, and void; that complainants
might be permitted to intervene and become parties defendant; that the sale of the railroad and lands of the company
under the decree be vacated and set aside; "and the said
railway and lands be restored to the possession of the receivers appointed by this court or such other officers or
receivers as the court may name;" for injunction and general relief.
But the question now before us is whether the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the decree of the Circuit
Court upon the merits is made final by the sixth section of
the act of March 3, 1891, which provides that "the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be
final in all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent
entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy,
being aliens and citizens of the United States or citizens of
different States; also in all cases arising under the patent
laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal laws
and in admiralty cases."
The suits "of a civil nature, at common law or in equity,"
of which the Circuit Courts of the United States have original cognizance, are enumerated in the first section of the
judiciary act of .March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24: Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433.
It is denied that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the
present suit depended entirely or at all upon the fact that the
opposite parties were citizens of different States, and insisted

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that jurisdiction was entertained because it was a bill to set
aside a foreclosure decree entered in the Circuit Court by
consent and in pursuance of a fraudulent plan to reorganize
the company, and the res was in possession of the court
whether "rightfully or wrongfully." The ground of jurisdiction thus suggested is not a ground of Federal jurisdiction,
but of the exercise of the powers of courts of superior general
jurisdiction; and it undoubtedly exists over all suits and proceedings ancillary, auxiliary, or supplemental to other suits, of
which the Circuit Courts have cognizance as courts of the
United States.
The character of this jurisdiction is thus treated by MrJustice Miller in ]Jinnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 5 Wall. 609,
633, where, speaking for the court, he said: "The question is
not whether the proceeding is supplemental and ancillary or
is independent and original, in the sense of the rules of equity
pleading; but whether it is supplemental and ancillary, or is
to be considered entirely new and original, in the sense which
this court has sanctioned with reference to the line which
divides the jurisdiction of the Federal courts from that of
the state courts. No one, for instance, would hesitate to
say that, according to the English chancery practice, a bill
to enjoin a judgment at law, is an original bill in the chancery
sense of the word. Yet this court has decided many times,
that when a bill is filed in the Circuit Court, to enjoin a judgment of that court, it is not to be considered as an original
bill, but as a continuation of the proceeding at law; so much
so, that the court will proceed in the injunction suit without
actual service of subpoena on the defendant, and though he be
a citizen of another State, if he were a party to the judgment.
at law."
In Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47, 50, we have already adjudged that the sixth section authorizes no appeal to this court
from a decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals in an ancillary or
supplemental suit or proceeding in the Circuit Court, where
the jurisdiction of that court in the main or original suit depends entirely upon the parties being citizens of different.
States. In that case the main foreclosure suit was between.

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

129

Opinion of the Court.

citizens of different States, and receivers had been appointed.
A proceeding by intervention was afterwards instituted in the
Circuit Court against the receivers, who appealed to this court
from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals against them,
and the appeal was dismissed because the opposite parties to
the foreclosure suit were citizens of different States, and the
decree was therefore made final by the statute. And we
said:
"And since where jurisdiction would not obtain in an independent suit, an intervening proceeding may nevertheless be
maintained as ancillary and supplemental under the jurisdiction already subsisting, such proceeding is to be regarded in
that aspect, even in cases where the Circuit Court might have
had jurisdiction of an independent action. Here, as we have
said, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked in the
first instance by the filing of the bill, and it was under that
jurisdiction that appellee intervened in the case, and that jurisdiction depended entirely upon diverse citizenship. . . . If
the word 'controversy' added anything to the comprehensiveness of the section, the fact remains that the exercise of the
power of disposition over this intervention, whether styled suit
or controversy, was the exercise of power invoked at the institution of the main suit, and it is to that point of time that the
inquiry as to the jurisdiction must necessarily be referred.
Colorado Central .Mining Co. v. Turk, 150 U. S. 138. Nor
can the conclusion be otherwise because separate appeals may
be allowed on such interventions. Decrees upon controversies separable from the main suit may indeed be separately
reviewed, but the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over such
controversies is not, therefore, to be ascribed to grounds inde.pendent of jurisdiction in the main suit."
Rouse v. Letcher was followed in Gregory v. Van Ee, 160
U. S.643, 646, and it was there observed:
"The Circuit Courts of the United States have cognizance of
suits as provided by the acts of Congress, and when their jurisdiction as Federal courts has attached, they possess and exercise
all the powers of courts of superior general jurisdiction. Accordingly they entertain and dispose of interventions and the
Vol- CLXI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

like on familiar and recognized principles of general law and
practice, but the ground on which their jurisdiction as courts
of the United States rests is to be found in the statutes, and to
that source must always be attributed.
"Manifestly, the decree in the main suit cannot be revised
through an appeal from a decree on ancillary or supplemental
proceedings, thus accomplishing indirectly what could not be
done directly. And even if the decree on such proceedings
may be in itself independent of the controversy between the
original parties, yet if the proceedings are entertained in
the Circuit Court because of its possession of the subject of the
ancillary or supplemental application, the disposition of the
latter must partake of the finality of the main decree, and cannot be brought here on the theory that the Circuit Court
exercised jurisdiction independently of the ground of jurisdiction which was originally invoked as giving cognizance to that
court as a court of the United States."
Complainants and defendants in the bill under consideration were not all citizens of different States, and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the suit did not purport to be
founded upon diverse citizenship. Independently, therefore,
of the foreclosure suit, the decree in which was sought to be
impeached, the bill was not sustainable in the Circuit Court.
It is very well settled that a bill in equity by a corporation
or the stockholders of a corporation in the Circuit Court to
set aside a final decree of that court against the corporation
in a foreclosure suit upon the ground that such a &.ree
was obtained by collusion and fraud, and the court had no
jurisdiction to make it, is an ancillary suit and a continuation
of the main suit so far as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
as a court of the United States is concerned. Minnesota Co.
v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609 ; Krippendorfv. Hyde, 110 U. S.
276; Pacific Railroadv. .Missouri Pacific Railway, 111 U. S.
505, 522. The bill in the latter case was brought in the Cir-cuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri by a corporation, a citizen of Missouri, against another corporation, also
a citizen of Missouri, other citizens of Missouri, and others,
alleging fraud and collusion in the original foreclosure suit

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

131

Opinion of the Court.

-and praying that the decree of foreclosure and sale be set
aside. Mr. Justice Blatchford, delivering the opinion of the
court, said:
"The bill falls within recQgnized cases which have been adjudged by this court, and have been recently reviewed and reaffirmed in Eripendorfv. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276. On the question
of jurisdiction the suit may be regarded as ancillary to the
Ketchum suit, so that the relief asked may be granted by the
-court which- made the decree in that suit, without regard to
the citizenship of the parties, though partaking so far of the
nature of an original suit as to be subject to the rules in regard
to the service of process which are laid down by M. Justice
Miller in Pacific Railroad v. Aissouri Paoific Railway, 1
McCrary, 64:7. The bill, though an original bill in the chancery sense of the word, is a continuation of the former suit,
.on the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
IMinnesota Co. v. St. Paul Uo., 2 Wall. 609, 633."
Tie same principle was applied to a bill by the stockholders
of a corporation filed for the purpose of impeaching a decree
of foreclosure and sale, by Mr. Justice Jackson, then Circuit
Judge, in Fosterv. Mfan.field &c. Railroad Co., 36 Fed. Rep.
627, 628, in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
-Ohio, where he said:
"There is no want of jurisdiction growing out of the fact
that some of the defendants to the present suit are citizens of
the same State (Ohio) with the complainant, inasmuch as this
suit may properly be regarded as ancillary or supplemental to
the original suit in which the decree complained of was made.
It is well settled that in such cases suit may be maintained
without regard to the citizenship of the parties. .MinnesotaCo.
v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; JErippendorfv. 1yde, 110 U. S.
276; Railroad Co. v. Railroad Co., 111 U. S.505. It is also
well settled that a shareholder may interpose and set the
machinery of the law in motion for the protection of corporate
rights, or the redress of corporate wrongs, when the corporate
management, after proper demand, refuses or fails to act in
the matter."
The decree in that case was affirmed by this court, 146 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Opinion of the Court.

88, and there is a marked resemblance between the bill exhibited there and that before us.
We regard it as not open to argument that the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, as a court df the United States, over this
suit rested on the jurisdiction of that court over the suit in
which the decree of May 4, 1888, was rendered, and we think
it clear that that jurisdiction depended entirely upon diverse
citizenship.
The bill in No. 201 was filed by the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, trustee, a citizen of New York, against the
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, a citizen of
Texas, April 24, 1886, to foreclose the general mortgage, and
no other party was named as defendant. The ground of Federal jurisdiction was diverse citizenship. How efficacious a
decree could have been rendered in that cause, if it had stood
alone, we need not consider, nor inquire when persons who
might be considered necessary parties may be dispensed with
as such. It may be noted, however, that the general mortgage
was the last mortgage, and prior incumbrancers, the validity
of whose incumbrances is not drawn in question, are not indispensable parties to a bill to foreclose a mortgage so situated.
Hagan v. Walker, 14 How. 29, 37; Jones on Mortgages,

1439.
The bills in Nos. 198 and 199 were filed by Easton and Rintoul, trustees, citizens of New York, January 21, 1886, against
the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company and Benjamin, A. Shepherd, trustee, both citizens of Texas, to foreclose
the Main Line first mortgage and the Western Division first
mortgage, and it was alleged that the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, trustee, under subsequent mortgages, should be
made a party defendant and brought in by the order and
direction of the court, in view of the fact that the property
was in the Circuit Court's possession, and complainants had
therefore been obliged to institute their suit therein. These
cases were consolidated by the order of May 26, 1886, the
parties being arranged for the purposes of jurisdiction on the
one side or the other of the matters in dispute, as indicated in
Pacfw Railroad v. Yetc um, 101 U. S. 289, and, unless that

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS RAILWAY.

133

Opinion of the Court.

order is to be disregarded, the question whether either case
lacked an indispensable party, became immaterial. Thereafter
cross-bills and answers were filed as has been stated. The
jurisdiction over these three separate suits and over the consolidated cause depended entirely upon diverse citizenship, and
if maintainable as to either of them, could be maintained as to
all by reason of lawful possession of the res.
In No. 185, the Southern Development Company, a corporation and citizen of California, filed its bill against the railway
company as a.corporation and citizen of Texas, February 16,
1885, the jurisdiction resting upon diverse citizenship, and in
that suit the court appointed receivers February 20, 1885, and
took and retained possession of the property under that receivership up to May 26, 1886, when it was transferred to the
receivers appointed in the consolidated cause, who thereby
became receivers under each of the separate bills so consolidated, all of which had in fact been filed long after the property was in the possession of the court. Certainly, possession
under one or the other of these bills drew to the court the
right to decide upon conflicting claims to the ultimate possession and control of the property, to marshal all liens upon it,
and to enforce them. -Morgan'sCo. v. Texas Cent'ralRailway,
137 U. S. 171, 201.
We conclude, therefore, that as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Texas as a court of the
United States was invoked throughout the litigation upon the
ground of diverse citizenship, and as this bill must be regarded
as ancillary, auxiliary, or supplemental to the foreclosure suit,
or, as it were, in continuation thereof, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was made final by the sixth section of the
act of March 3, 1891, and the appeal to this court from that
decree will not lie.
Appeal dismissed.
MR. JUSTiE: PEcKHxm was not a member of the court when
this motion was submitted, and took no part in its disposition.

