GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Syllabus.

for equitable relief, or should dismiss the bill with leave to
bring an action at law, either would be a valid exercise of
jurisdiction. If any error were committed in the exercise
of such jurisdiction, it could only be remedied by an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The learned counsel for the appellants claims in his brief
that the case of Miisissvippi fill.8 v. Cohn, 150 U. S. 202, sustains his prbsent contention.
That was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Louisiana, under the provisions of the act of February 25, 1889, c. 36, 25 Stat. 693.
The court below dismissed the complainant's bill in equity on
the ground that no relief could be had in equity because, under
the practice prescribed by a state law, there was a remedy by
an action at law. But this court held that the jurisdiction of
Federal courts, sitting as courts of equity, cannot be enlarged
or diminished by state legislation, and that hence the Circuit
Court had committed error by allowing a state law to overturn the well-settled practice in the Federal court. In the
condition of the Federal statutes at that time there was no
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the plaintiff's remedy, given
him by the act of February 25, 1889, was by appeal to this
court. Should such a state of facts again arise the remedy
would now be by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The appeal from the Circuit Court is accordingly
Dismi ed.

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
OERTIFICATE

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 510. Submitted December 2, 1895. -Decided

March 2,1896.

The defendant in error, a municipal county of Illinois, under authority from
the State issued its bonds in payment of a subscription to stock in a
railway company, made upon a condition which was never complied

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
with, and which was subsequently waived by the county. It received
certificates for the stock so subscribed for, and still holds them. It
paid-interest upon its bonds as maturing, and refunded them by an issue
of new bonds for like amount under legislative authority. -Held,that
the bonds originally issued were binding and subsisting obligations of
the county, and having been recognized as such by the county authorities by lifting them with new bonds under the refunding act, those funding bonds were valid and binding obligations upon the county in the
hands of a bona fide holder for value before maturity.
Where there is a total want of power to subscribe for such stock and to
issue bonds in payment, a municipality cannot estop itself from raising
such a defence by admissions, or by issuing securities negotiable in
form, nor even by receiving and enjoying the proceeds of such bonds.
Where a municipality is empowered to subscribe with or without conditions as it may think fit, and where the conditions are such as it chooses
to impose, there seems to be no good reason why it may not be competent for such municipality to waive such self-imposed conditions,
provided, of course, such waiver is by the municipality acting as the
irincipal, and not by mere agents or official persons.

TMis case came into the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, at October term, 1894, on an appeal from a
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The original action was a suit in equity brought in the
Circuit Court of Saline County, Illinois, by the county of
Saline as complainant against the treasurer and auditor of
public accounts of the State of Illinois and the collector
of taxes and clerk of the county court of Saline County,
to restrain the levy and collection of the tax required to be
levied by the said auditor of public accounts of the State of
Illinois, to pay the interest on one hundred registered refunding bonds of the said county.
Luther R. Graves, one of the holders of such refunding
bonds, intervened in the Circuit Court of Saline County, and
had the cause removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Illinois, where the Society
for Savings, D. B. Wesson, and William Burgoyne, other
holders of such bonds, also filed intervening petitions. That
court granted the injunction asked for by the county, and the
case was then taken by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Seventh Circuit, and thereupon the latter court certi-

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Statemeint of the Case.

fled to this court the following statement of facts and questions for its opinion and instructions:
The appellants were prior to the year 1883 bonaide holders
for value and before maturity of certain bonds issued by the
county of Saline to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company and to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company
respectively. These bonds ($75,000 in amount to the former
and $25,000 in amount to the latter company, and bearing
interest at the rate of eight per centum per annurn, payable
semi-annually) were issued under authority of acts of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, passed in the years 1861
(Pr. Laws of Illinois, 1861, p. 485) and 1869 (Pr. Laws of
Illinois, 1869, vol. 3, p. 238) and pursuant to an election duly
ordered and held according to law on the 9th day of October,
1869, and in payment of subscriptions to stock in said companies respectively, dated January 15, 1870, duly authorized
by said election, upon certain conditions, one of which was
that said railroad should .be commenced within one year and
completed within thr~e years from the date of subscription,
and another of the conditions was that the St. Louis and
Southeastern Railway should pass and a depot be established
within one half-mile of the old court-house in Raleigh, and
within one half-mile of the church in Galatia.
These bonds to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway
Company were dated January 1, 1872, payable twenty years
after date, with option of paying five years after date, and
were issued and delivered to that company February 1, 1872,
and were purchased in open market by the appellants and for
value and without notice, prior to the year 1876. The railroad was never constructed within one half-mile of the old
court-house in Raleigh, or within one half-mile of the church
in Galatia, but was constructed in a different direction, and
the said condition was in no sense complied with, but was
waivea by the board of commissioners of said county after
July 2, 1870.
The. time for the completion of the Belleville and Eldorado
Railroad was by the board of commissioners of the county of
Saline after July 2, 1870, extended -from time to time and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

until October 20, 1877, and the bonds were issued and delivered on the 19th day of April, 1877, being dated March 9, 1877,
and payable twenty years after the 1st day of January, 1873,
with option of paying five years after date.
The amendment to the constitution of the State of Illinois,
which went into effect July 2, 1870, provided "no county, city,
town, township or other municipality shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donations to or loan its credit in aid of such
corporation; provided, however, that the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of any
such municipality to make such subscriptions where the same
have been authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the
people of such municipalities prior to such adoption."
The bonds issued to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway
Company were valid obligations of the county in .the hands of
the appellants under the decisions of the Supreme Court in the
cases of TnAsurance Company v. Bruce, 105 U. S.328, and Oregon v. Jennings, 119 U. S.74.
The bonds issued to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad
Company were void even in the hands of bonafide purchasers
for value, within the decision of German Savings Bank v.
Franklin County, 128 U. S.526.
The bonds to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company were issued before and those to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company were issued after the decision of the
Supreme Court of Illinois, in the case of Town of Eagle v.
John,8: Illinois, 292, decided in 1876.
The validity of none of these bonds was at any time questioned by the county of Saline until December 30, 1889, and
the county had annually paid the interest on all of these bonds
from the time of their issue until they were exchanged for
funding bonds of the county as hereinafter stated.
The county of Saline has always retained and now has the
stock in said railway companies obtained by it for the bonds
so issued to said railway companies respectively; but such"
stock is now and always has been wholly worthless and of no
value.

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

The general assembly of the State of Illinois, by act approved February 13, 1865, and by acts amendatory thereto
approved April 27, 1877, and June 4, 1879, enacted as follows
(Rev. Stat. Illinois, Cothran's annotated ed. 1881, p. 1119, 2
Starr & Curtis's Stats. c. 113, p. 1877):
"Sxc. 1.. That in all cases where any .county, city, town,
township, school district or other municipal corporation has
issued bonds or other evidences of indebtedness for money, or
has contracted debts, which are the binding, subsisting legal
obligations of such county, city, town, township, school district or other municipal corporation, and the same, or any portion thereof, remain outstanding and unpaid, it shall be lawful
for the proper corporate authorities of any such county, city,
town, township, sohool district or other municipal corporation,
upon the surrender of any such bonds or other evidences of
indebtedness, or any number or portion thereof, to issue, in
lieu or place thereof, to the owners or holders of the same,
new bonds prepared as hereinafter directed, and for such
amounts, upon such time, not exceeding twenty years, payable at such place, and bearing such rate of interest, not
exceeding seven per centum per annum, as may be agreed
upon with the owners or holders of such outstanding bonds
or other evidence of indebtedness: Povided, That bonds
issued under this act, to mature within five years from their
date, may bear interest not to exceed eight per cent per annum.
And it shall also be lawful for the proper corporate authorities
of any such county, city, town, township, school district or
other municipal corporation to cause to be thus issued such
new bonds, and sell the same to raise money to purchase or
retire any or all of such outstanding laonds or other evidences
of indebtedness; the proceeds of the sales of such new bonds
to be expended, under the direction of the corporate authorities aforesaid, in the purchase or retiring of the outstanding
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness of such county, city,
town, township, school district or other municipal corporation,
and for no other purpose whatever. All bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, issued under the provisions of this act,
shall show upon their face that they are issued under this act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and the purpose for which they are issued, and shall be of uniform design and style throughout the state, to be prescribed
by bhe state auditor, whose imperative duty it shall be to
devise and prepare such uniform style and draft adapted to
the classes of bonds herein provided for, namely, the first class
to consist of bonds of which only the interest is payable annually; the second class to consist of those of which the interest
and five per centum of the principal are to be paid annually;
and the third class to consist of a graduated series, the first
grade made payable, principal and interest, at the end of one
year from the date of issue; the second at the end of two
years, and thus to the end of the series, the class to be issued
beipg at the option of the legal voters expressed as herein provided. In any case, the new bonds, or other evidences of
indebtedness, authorized to be issued by this act, shall not be
for a greater sum in the aggregate, than the principal and
accrued or earned interest unpaid of such outstanding bonds or
other evidences of indebtedness. And when such new bonds or
other evidences of indebtedness shall have been issued, in order
to be placed on the market and sold to obtain proceeds with
which to retire outstanding bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, it shall be the duty of the state auditor, on the request
of the corporate authorities'issuing them, and at the expenge
of the corporation in whose behalf the issue is thus made, to
negotiate the same, at not less than par value, and on the best
terms which can be obtained: Provided, always, That any
such county, city, town, township, school district or other municipal corporation issuing bonds under the provisions of this
act, may, through its corporate authorities duly authorized, negotiate, sell or dispose of said bonds, or any part thereof, at
not less than their par value, without the intervention of the
auditor of state: And providedfurther,That no new bonds
or other evidences of indebtedness shall be issued under
this act, unless the same shall be first authorized, as hereinafter
provided by a vote of a majority of the legal voters of such
county, city, town, township, school district or other.municipal
corporation voting at some general election, or special election
held for that purpose."

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

Under and by virtue of this provision of law the board of
commissioners of the county of Saline duly ordered an election to determine the question of issuing the bonds of the
county for the purpose of paying and redeeming the bonds
above stated issued to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway
Company and to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company and to another railway company, respectively, and at
such election duly held according to law on the 6th day of
November, 1883, a majority of the legal voters of the county
of Saline voting at such election voted in favor of such proposition. On the 15th day of November, 1883, the board of commissioners of the county, by order duly made and entered,
ordered in compliance with such vote that one hundred
and ninety-five bonds of said county, of $1000 each, be issued
to take up and pay off the said bonds so issued to the St.
Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, the Belleville and
Eldorado Railroad Company and said other company; and
the duly constituted officers of said county thereafter, on the
1st day of July, 1885, issued the bonds of said county in strict
conformity with said act, to the amount in the aggregate of
$100,000, to take up and pay off the said bonds so issued
to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company and
to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company, each of
said bonds being of the tenor and effect following:
" UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

$1000.

".State of Illinois,county of Saline,fundingbond, issued under
the act of 1865, as amended April 27, 1877, and June 4, 1879.

"Twenty years after date, for value received, the county of
Saline promises to pay to the bearer hereof, tfe sum of $1000
in lawful money of the United States, at the office of the
treasurer of the State of Illinois, in the city of New York,
with interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, payable
annually, as shown by and upon the surrender of the annexed
coupons, as they severally become due, reserving, however,
the right to redeem this bond, at-any time after five years
from date.
" This bond is one of a series of 195 of like tenor, issued

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for the purpose of funding and retiring certain binding, subsisting, legal obligations of said county, which remain outstanding and unpaid, under the provisions of an act of the
.general assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled 'An act
to enable counties, cities, towns, townships, school districts
.and other municipal corporations to fund, retire and purchase
their outstanding bonds, and other evidences of indebtedness,
and provide for the registration of new bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness, in the office of the auditor of public
.accounts,' approved February 13, 1865, and acts amendatory
thereto, approved April 27, 1877, and June 4, 1879, and in
pursuance of a vote of the majority' of the legal voters of
tsaid county, voting at an election legally called, under said
act, the 6th of November, 1883.
"We hereby certify that all requirements of said acts have
been fully complied with in the issue thereof.
"In testimony whereof, we, the undersigned officers of said
county, being duly authorized to execute this obligation on its
behalf, have hereunto set our signatures this 1st day of July,
A.D. 1885.
,"W. G. FRiTr,
" [sEAL.]

"CChairmanof tMe County Board.
W. E. BuRNETT, County Clerk."

Each of said bonds was duly registered according to law
with the auditor of the State of Illinois, who endorsed upon
each of said bonds the following:
" STATE OF ILLINOIS.

$1000.

"Saline County Bond.
"Date of bond, July 1, 1885. Payable twenty years after
date. Redeemable five years after date. Interest payable
July 1, annually. 'Principal and interest payable at the office
-of the State treasurer of the State of Illinois, in the city of
New York, and State of New York.
AUDrroR's OFFICE, ILLINOIS,

" SpRrNGFIELD, Nov. 2.3d, 1885.
"I, Charles P. Swigert, auditor of public accounts of the

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

State of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has
been registered in this office this day, pursuant to the provisions of an act entitled 'An act to enable counties, cities,
towns, townships, school districts and other municipal corporations to fund, retire and purchase their outstanding bonds
and other evidences of indebtedness, and to provide for the
registration of new bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness,
in the office of the auditor of public accounts,' approved
February 13, 1865, and acts amendatory thereto, approved
April 27, 1877, and June 4, 1879.
"I further certify, that the aggregate equalized valuation
of property assessed for taxation in said county for the year
1885, were certified to this office as follows:
"Real estate, $1,362,931., Personal property, $477,340.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my
name, and affixed the seal of my office, the day and year
aforesaid.

[SEL.]

CHARLES P. SWIGERT,
"Auditor Public Accounts."

The county of Saline appointed an agent to solicit the
exchange of bonds, and obtained from the appellants and
cancelled the old bonds respectively held by them, and issued
to them the funding bonds in lieu thereof. The county of
Saline thereafter, until the year 1890, paid the annual interest
on such new issue of bonds.
Upon these facts the questions certified were as follows:
"First. Is the county of Saline estopped by the recital in
the funding bonds to assert that the bonds issued to the St.
Louis and Southeastern Railway Company, and to the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company, respectively, and for
which the funding bonds were exchanged, were not binding,
subsisting legal obligations of said county?
"Second. Are the funding bonds so issued by the county
of Saline legal, valid and binding obligations upon said county
in the hands of a bona fide holder for value before maturityI
"Third. If the court should be of opinion that the funding
bonds are invalid, would it be competent for the court in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

cause, which is a suit in equity instituted by the county of
Saline to restrain officers of the law from levying and collecting a tax as required by law to pay the interest upon the
funding bonds, to grant the relief asked only upon condition
that the county of Saline pay to the holders the amount of
the valid bonds issued to the St. Louis and Southeastern
Railway Company which were exchanged for the funding
bonds?"
K.r. George A. Sanders and Mr. Williamr R. Bowers for

Graves, appellant.
.Mr.
Thomas C. 3father, -Mr.James A. Connolly, and

lMLr.

John . Mfathis, for Wesson and others, appellants.
.Xr. Samuel P. Wheeler and Ar. I

1i. Boyer for appellee.

MRt. JUSTICE SHIPAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Under the authority of certain acts of the general assembly
of the State of Illinois, and in pursuance of an election duly
ordered and held according to law, and in payment of a subscription to stock in the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway
Company, the county of Saline issued bonds to the amount of
$25,000, bearing interest at the rate of eight per cent, to the
said railway company, bearing date January 1, 1872, payable
twenty years after date. These bonds were delivered to the
railway company February 1, 1872, and were purchased in
open market by the appellants, for value and without notice
of any defence, prior fo the year 1876.
The contract of subscription contained a condition that the
said St. Louis and Southeastern Railway should pass and a
depot be established within one half-mile of the old courthouse in Raleigh and within one half-mile of the church in
Galatia. The railroad was not constructed within the prescribed limits, but was cbnstructed in said county in a different direction, and compliance with the said condition was
waived by the board of commissioners of said county.

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

By the seventh section of the act of April 16, 1869, it is
provided that "any county, township, city or town shall have
the right, when making any subscription or donation to any
railroad company, to prescribe the conditions upon which
such bonds and subscriptions or donations shall be made, and
such bonds, subscriptions or donations shall not be valid and
binding until such conditions precedent shall have been complied with."
The constitution of Illinois, which took eff6:t July 2, 1870,
provides as follows: "No county, city, town, township or.
other municipality shall ever become subscribers to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make
donation to or loan its credit in aid of such corporation:
Provided,however, That the adoption of this article shall not
be construed as affecting the right of any such municipality
to make such subscriptions where the same have been authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the people of such
municipalities prior to such adoption."
Such an election was held by the people of Saline County
on October 9, 1868; and the subscription was made January 15, 1870.
The validity of these bonds so issued to the St. Louis and
Southeastern Railway Company was continually recognized
by the county of Saline by the payment of interest thereon and
by the refunding of the same into new bonds of the county in
July, 1885; and the said county has always retained and now
has the stock in said railway company.
This state of facts brings the case, as respects the bonds
originally issued to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway
Company, clearly within the decision of this court in the precisely similar case of Insurance Co. v. Bruce, 105 U. S.328.
331, and where, per Mr. Justice Harlan, it was said:
"The statute did not make it obligatory on the town to
impose conditions upon the performance of which its liability
.should depend. It conferred simply the right to do so, leaving the town at liberty to prescribe conditions or to make an
unconditional subscription. Consistently with the statute the
town could issue and deliver bonds for the subscription in
VOL. CLXI-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

advance of the construction of 'any part of the road. But
when conditions were prescribed, good faith and the obligations which everywhere arise out of negotiable securities
required - if the town intended to rely upon them - that the
public, who were expected to buy the bonds or to advance
money upon them, should be informed by their recitals that
the town had exercised its statutory right to impose conditions upon its liability. The officers both of the town and the
railroad company knew, however, that bonds could not be
negotiated in the market had their recitals disclosed the fact
that payment depended upon conditions thereafter to be fulfilled by the railroad corporation. To the end, therefore, that
money might be raised for the construction of the proposed
road, or in reliance upon the performance by the railroad
company of the conditions imposed, the constituted authorities
of the town, and the officers or agents of the company, cooperated in putting out bonds negotiable in form, and with
recitals that gave no intimation even that the subscription
was conditional. The fact that conditions had been prescribed
was omitted in recitals full of everything necessary to induce
the public to buy the bonds. The statement, on the face of
the bonds, that they were issued by virtue of the statutes of
April 15, 1869, and April 16, 1869 - the first of which contains an absolute requirementthat the bonds be issued and delivered upon the subscription being voted, while the second
gives the right, but does not make it imperative, to impose
conditions-and the further statement that the people had
voted for subscription and to issue bonds therefor, fairly imported that nothing remained to be done in order to make
the bonds binding obligations upon the town in the hands of
bona Xfde purchasers. Under these circumstances, the town,
by every principle of justice, is estopped, as against a bonafide
holder, to plead conditions, the existence of which was withheldfrom the public, either to facilitate the negotiation of the
bonds in the markets of the country, or because it had full
confidence that the railroad company .would meet the prescribed conditions. It should not now be heard to make a
defence inconsistent with the representations contained in the

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

recitals upon its bonds, or upon the ground that the conditions imposed, of which purchasers had no notice, have not
been performed."
Similar conclusions were reached in the case of Oregon v.
Jennings, 119 U. S. 74, where, citing Insurance Co. v. Bruce,
it was held that bonds issued by the tawn of Oregon, a municipal corporation of the State of Illinois, in compliance with a
vote of the people held prior to the adoption of the Illinois
constitution of 1870, in pursuance of a law providing therefor,
were valid, although a condition as to the completion of the
road was not complied with, because the recitals in the bonds
were made by officers entrusted under the statute with the
duty of determining whether the condition had been complied
with, and the town was thereby estopped from asserting the
contrary. The doctrine of the case of County of Japer v.
Ballou, 103 U. S.745, is applicable. There it was held in a
case arising, like this one, in the State of Illinois, that when
the people of a county, at an election held under a refunding
act, voted to issue new bonds to exchange for old ones, such
a vote recognized the original bonds as binding and subsisting
obligations, and that the county was therefore estopped from
setting up that they were invalid because voted for at an election
called by the board of supervisors instead of by the county court,
and that where, at an election held according to law, the people of a county authorized their proper representatives to treat
certain outstanding county obligations as properly authorized
by law for the purpose of settling with the holders, and the
settlement has been made, the validity of the obligations can
be no longer questioned. There, as here, there was lawful
power in the county to issue the original bonds, but there
was an irregularity in the election, it having been called for
by the wrong officers.
Applying these cases to the present one, we conclude that
under the facts contained in the statement the bonds issued
to the St. Louis and Southern Railway Company in July,
1872, were binding and subsisting obligations of Saline
County, and having been recognized as such by the county
authorities in 1885, by lifting them with new bonds under the

OCTOBER TERMvf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

refunding act, the second question put to us by the Circuit
Court of Appeals must, as respects said new bonds, be
answered in the affirmative.
The history of the bonds originally issued to the Belleville
and Eldorado Railroad Company is somewhat different. These
bonds were issued and delivered on April 19, 1877, after the
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois in the case of the
Town of Eagle v. -Kohn, 84 Illinois, 292. The nature and effect
of. that decision were thus described in the case of German
Savings Bank v. Franklin County, 128 U. S. 526, 538:
"That was a suit against the town of Eagle, brought by
innocent holders for value, to recover on coupons cut from
bonds issued by the town to a railroad company, December 1,
1870, in payment of a subscription to stock in pursuance of a
vote of the people of the town had November 2, 1869. In
that vote certain conditions as to time had been prescribed,
upon which the bonds should be issued. Those conditions
had not been complied with. The qpestion arose in the case
whether the declaration of the statute, that the bonds should
not be valid and binding until such conditions precedent
should have been complied with, was to be confined, in its
operation, to the railroad company to which the bonds should
have been issued, or whether it extended to innocent holders
for value. The court held that although the statute did not
declare that the bonds should be void, its declaration that they
should not be valid and binding until the conditions precedent
should have been complied with was an imperative and peremptory declaration that the bonds should not be valid and
binding until the conditions named should have been complied with, even in the hands of innocent holders without
notice; and it declared the bonds to be invalid in the hands
of the plaintiffs. This interpretation of section 7 of the act
of April 16, 1869, accompanied all bonds subsequently issued
into the hands of whoever took them, whether a bona fde
holder or not. This court must recognize this decision of the
Supreme Court of Illinois as an authoritative construction of
the statute made before the bonds were issued, and to be
followed by this court."

GRAVES v. SALINE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

If the present case stood only on the footing of the original
conditional contract of subscription we would be compelled
to follow the holding of the Supreme Court of Illinois, and to
hold that the original bonds were uncollectible even by innocent holders. But we have here an additional feature, not
present in the case of German Savings Bank v. Franklin.
County, or in the case of Town of Eagle v. Kohn, and that

is found in the fact that in the year 1885, in pursuance of the
illinois funding bond act, approved February 13, 1865, as
amended by acts approved April 27, 1877, and Jufie 4, 1879,
(Laws of Illinois, 1879, p. 229,) and in pursuance of a vote of
a majority of the legal voters of Saline County as prescribed
in said statutes, new bonds were issued and registered in
manner as directed in the law, and were delivered to the
holders of the original bonds, which latter were surrendered
and cancelled. The county of Saline thereafter, until the
year 1890, paid the annual interest on such new issue of
bonds.
While it is true that the mere exchange of new bonds for
old ones and the payment of interest on the former by the
county authorities would not estop the county from challenging the validity of the new as well as that of the old bonds,
yet we think it was competent for the county, in such a state
of facts as here existed, by a vote of its people, to waive the
condition attached to the original subscription and to estop
itself from declining to be bound by the new negotiable securities. It must be admitted, as well-settled law, that where
there is a total want of power to subscribe for stock and to
issue bonds in payment, a municipality cannot estop itself
from raising such a defence by admissions, or by issuing securities negotiable in form, nor even by receiving and enjoying
the proceeds of such bonds. So, too, it may be admitted that,
even where the power to subscribe for stock and to issue
bonds in payment was validly granted, yet where the right
to exercise the power has been subjected to conditions prescribed by the legislature, the municipality cannot dispense
with or waive such conditions.
But where the municipality is empowered to subscribe with

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

or without conditions as it may think fit, and where the conditions are such as it chooses to impose, there seems to be no
good reason why it may not be competent for such municipality to waive such self-imposed conditions, provided, of course,
such waiver-is by the municipality acting as the principal, and
not by mere agents or official persons. Such was the present
case. The subscription was made on condition that the railroad should be commenced within one year and completed
within three years from the date of the subscription, and it
may be, under the doctrine of Town of Eagle v. Kohn, that
the action of the board of commissioners in extending the
period for commencing and finishing the railroad would not
relieve the company from the condition, nor avail to estop
the county as against bona fide holders of the bonds. But
when, in pursuance of the funding laws, the question whether
the outstanding original bonds issued to the Belleville and
Eldorado Railroad Company should be refunded in new bonds
was submitted to the same constituent body that authorized
the original issue, and when, in accordance with the vote so
taken, and in formal compliance with the other directions of
the funding laws, negotiable securities were issued and delivered in payment of the outstanding bonds, we know of no
principle of law which forbids the county of Saline from such
honorable discharge of its liabilities in the hands of innocent
holders. Such action on the part of the legal voters of Saline
County may well be regarded as a declaration that there had
been, by the actual construction of the railroad and the delivery of the stock, a substantial compliance with the original conditions. After such deliberate action, it is now too late for
Saline County to seek the aid of a court of equity to enable it
to avoid its contracts made in pursuance of a legislative grant
of power, and the consideration of which has been received.
In equity, time is usually not of the essence of the contract, and
is never regarded as such when the contract has been fully
executed, without objection. It may be fairly said that, while
a municipal corporation may not ratify a contract into which
it had no power to enter, and may not waive a condition put
by the legislature upon the exercise of a given power, yet it

