OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case

In

T'e

EMBLEN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.

Ho. 9, Original. Argued December 16, 1895.-Decided March 2, 1896.

If, after the Secretary of the Interior has decided a contest as to the right
of preemption to public land in favor of one contestant, and has granted
a rehearing, but before the rehearing is had, Congress passes an act confirming the entry of that contestant, and directing that a patent issue to
him, and a patent is issued accordingly, a writ of mandamus will not lie
to compel the Secretary to proceed to adjudication of the contest.

Tmis was a petition of George F. Emblen for a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of the Interior to hear and decide a
contest between Emblen and George F. Weed as to a quarter section of land in Colorado. The petition alleged the
following facts:
In February, 1885, and long before, the land in question,
situated in the Denver land district, Colorado, was a part of
the unappropriated public domain, suitable for agricultural
puirposes, and subject to entry and purchase under the preemption and homestead laws. On February 26, 1885, Weed
filed in the land office of that district a declaratory statement
under oath, as required by the predmption laws, alleging his
settlement upon the land, and his purpose to occupy and cultivate it, and to acquire title to it under those laws. On September 19, 1885, the register and receiver of the district
'received from Weed final proofs of settlement, improvement.
and other essential facts, and the government price, and issued
to him a cash entry certificate of purchase, entitling him in
due course to a patent for. the land.
On October 4, 1888, before any patent had been issued,
Emblen filed a protest in that office against the issue of a.
patent to Weed for the land in question, alleging fraud, misrepresentation and perjury on Weed's part touching his settlement,. occupation and purpose, and demanding a hearing
thereon, and asking to be allowed all the rights of a contestant
under the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89. 21 Stat. 140. On May
21, 1889, the register and receiver, after hearing evidence and

IlN RE EMBLEN, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

:arguments, dismissed the protest and contest. Emblen appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who,
on February 20, 1890, reversed the decision, and held Weed's
entry for cancellation. Meanwhile the town of Yuma had
been built upon the land; and Weed and the board of trustees
of Yuma petitioned for a rehearing, which was granted by
the Commissioner.
Shortly afterwards, a new land district was created, with
offices at Akron, Colorado. The land being in this district,
the rehearing was transferred to the register and receiver
thereof. Emblen protested, on the ground that the receiver
was interested personally in the result of the contest, because
he claimed ownership of a portion of the land by a conveyance from Weed. The protest was overruled, and, Emblen
refusing to appear before the register, or to submit to his
jurisdiction, an ex parte hearing was had, and a decision was
rendered on November 4, 1890, in favor of Weed, dismissing
the contest, and was affirmed on successive appeals to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, and to the Secretary
of the Interior. On August 25, 1893, the Secretary of the
Interior granted a petition of Emblen for a rehearing upon
newly discovered evidence, and expressed the opinion that the
proceedings before the register and receiver at Akron were
invalid.
Before such rehearing was had, Congress passed the act of
December 29, 1894, c. 15, confirming Weed's entry, and
directing that a patent issue to him for the land. 28 Stat.
599. In February, 1895, a patent was accordingly issued to
Weed; and the Secretary of the Interior, solely by reason of
the passage of this act, suspended all proceedings in the contest; and declined to authorize or direct any further hearing,
trial, or consideration thereof.
The petitioner further alleged that in good faith, and in
reliance upon the acts of Congress and the regulations of the
land department, he had spent in this contest years of labor,
and large sums of money; that he desired that the contest
proceed to final adjudication and disposition; and that, should
he succeed therein, it was his purpose to claim and to exercise

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Petitioner.

his preference right of entry and purchase of the land, as by
law authorized and provided.
The prayer of the petition was that the act of Congress be
declared unconstitutional and void; that the patent to Weed
be likewise declared void, because issued without warrant or
authority in law; and "that a writ of -mandamus issue, directed to the Secretary of the Interior, requiring him to proceed to the final adjudication and disposition of said contest,
in accordance with the general acts of Congress, and the rules
and regulations of the land department, in that behalf made
and provided '

Mr. Henry B. O'Reily for petitioner.
'I. At the time of the passage of this act the land in question had been segregated from the mass of the public domain;
it was no longer any part of the "territory or property" of
the United States; it was in fact and in law private property.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; United States v. T,rner, 54
Fed. Rep. 228; Reichart v. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; 1ians"
Pacific Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; United States
v. Southern Paciic Railroad, 146 U. S. 570;. Borden v.
Northern Pacific Railroad,145 U. S. 535.
II. If private property Congress had no dominion over it.
After each entry of public lands the power of Congress to dispose thereof ceases, or is certainly suspended, until such entry
may be cancelled or forfeited as by law authorized.
III. The act is void as an unprecedented and unwarranted
interference with the judicial proceedings of a tribunal lawfully established while actually engaged, within the sphere of
its lawful authority, in the determination of a controversy
touching the respective rights of individuals to certain property. Confusion and chaos must necessarily i esult where one
department of the government is permitted to encroach upon,
or to usurp any of the powers properly belonging to another.
Astiazaran v. Santa Rita fiwing Co., 148 U. S.80; Steel v.
Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 44'7; Germania Iron Co. v. United
States, 58 Fed. Rep. 334:; karquez v. .Frisbie,101 U. S. 473;
Casey v. T-assen, 50 Fed. Rep. 258.

IN RE EMBLEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. The act is. void as an unprecedented and unlawful attempt, by special act, to deprive petitioner of a very valuable
right, and exclusive privilege, secured to him and to his heirs,
by general laws, then and still in full force, upon the faith of
which he had expended, as by law required, much time and
money. It was an endeavor to abrogate a contractual, if not
a vested right, secured to petitioner upon compliance with, and
in pursuance of, lawful acts of Congress. Shepley v. Cowan,
91 U. S. 330; Reichart v. FeP8, 6 Wall, 160; Stoddard~v.
Chambers, 2 How. 284.
V. The act is void because it denied to petitioner the equal
protection of the laws.
VI. If the act be void, and the Secretary declines to proceed with this contest solely on account thereof, mandamus is
the proper remedy to require him to reinstate said cause and
to proceed with the judicial disposition thereof in due course.
In re Rohorst,. 150 U. S. 653; McPherson v. Blacker, 146
U. S. 1 ; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Wilson, 8 Pet. 291 ; Exparte
Morgan, 114 U. S. 174; Livingston v. Dorgenois, 7 Craneh,
577.
Mr. S. ff. Stockslager, (with whom was Mr. George 0.
Heardon the brief,) by special leave of court for the Lincoln
Land Company, opposing.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This is an attempt to use a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of the Interior as a writ of error to review his acts, and
to draw into the jurisdiction of the courts matters which are
within the exclusive cognizance of the land department.
By section 2273 of the Revised Statutes, "When two or
more persons settle on the same tract of land, the right of
pregmption shall be in him who made the first settlement,
provided such person conforms to the other provision of the
law; and all questions as to the right of preemption arising

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

between different settlers shall be determined by the register
and receiver of the district within which the land is situated;
and appeals from the decision of district officers, in cases of
contest for the right of preemption, shall be made to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, whose decision
shall be final, unless appeal therefrom be taken to the Secretary of the Interior."
By the -act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, ยง 2, '.' In all cases where
any person has contested, paid the land office fees, and procured the cancellation of any pregmption, homestead or timberculture .entry, he shall be notified by the register of the land
office of the district in which such land is situated of such
cancellation, and shall be allowed thirty days from date of
such notice to enter said lands." 21 Stat. 141.
The contest between Emblen and Weed was conducted in
accordance with these statutes. After the last decision of the
register and receiver, affirmed by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and by the Secretary of the Interior, in
favor of Weed; and after the Secretary of the Interior had
granted a petition of Emblen for a rehearing, and before the
rehearing had been had; Congress passed an act confirming
Weed's entry, and directing that a patent issue to him for the
land in controversy. The Secretary of the Interior thereupon
suspended the pending proceedings, and declined to authorize
any further hearing of the contest; and a patent was actually
issued to Weed before this petition for a writ of mandamus
was filed.
Such being the state of the case, it is quite clear that (even
if the act of Congress was unconstitutional* which we do
not intimate) the writ of mandamus prayed for should not
be granted. The determination of the contest between the
claimants of conflicting rights of preemption, as well as the
issue of a patent to either, was within the general jurisdiction
and authority of the land department, and cannot be controlled
or restrained by mandamus or injunction. After the patent
has once been issued, the original contest is no longer within
the jurisdiction of the land department. The patent conveys
the legal title to the patentee; and cannot be revoked or set

