OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

pellant had been a party. There being no actual notice, and
the recording of the defective deed not operating as constructive notice, the alleged equitable lien is wholly inoperative
against those holding under the decree.
The decree of the general term of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia must be

Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 241. Submitted November 2, 1894.-Decided March 2, 1896.
Upon proceedings under the statute of Texas of March 20, 1848, c. 145, for
the escheat of land of a person who is dead, in which the petition describes the land, gives his name, and alleges that he died intestate and
without heirs, that no letters of administration upon his estate had been
granted, that there is no tenant or person in actual or constructive possession of the land, nor any person, known to the-petitioner, claiming an
estate therein, and that the land has escheated to the State of Texas;
and an order of notice to all persons interested in the estate -has been
published, as required by the statute; and, after a hearing of all who
appear and plead, judgment is entered, describing the land, and declaring
that it has escheated to the State; the judgment is conclusive evidence
of the State's title in the land, not only against any tenants or claimants
having had actual notice by scire fadas, or having appeared and pleaded,
but also against all other persons interested in the estate and having had
constructive notice by publication.
The constitution of Texas of 1869, art. 4, sect. 20, declaring it to be the
duty of the comptroller of public accounts to "take charge of all escheated property," did not affect pending proceedings for escheat under
the statute of March 20, 1848, c. 145, so far as concerned the vesting of
the title to the land in the State, even if it should be held to repeal the
provisions for a subsequent sale of the land by the sheriff.

HAMILTON v. BROWNT.
Statement of the Case.
The constitution of Texas of 1869, art. 10, sect. 6, forbidding the legislature to grant lands except to actual settlers, did not affect judicial proceedings to declare and enforce escheats.

T" was an action brought April 12, 1890, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Texas,
by Joseph F. Hamilton, a citizen of Missouri, Lewis Hamilton,
and Mary A. Post, joined by her husband, George Post, citizens of Illinois, Walter B. Hamilton, and Elizabeth Fulton,
joined by her husband John G. Fulton, citizens of Kansas, and
John F. Hamilton, a citizen of Colorado, against J. T. Brown
and twenty-five others, all citizens of Texas, and living in the
county of Fayette, within the Western District of Texas, to
recover land in that county.
The petition alleged that the land consisted of one league,
described by metes and bounds, granted to Walter F. Hamilton by the Republic of Mexico on April 30, 1831; that on
April 13, 1888, the plaintiffs were the owners in fee simple
of the land, and entitled to the possession thereof; and that
the defendants on that day unlawfully entered thereon and
dispossessed- the plaintiffs, and had ever 'since withheld the
possession from them.
The defendants, in a supplemental answer, "say that plaintiffs ought not to have or maintain this actiop against them,
because they say that on the 30th day of March, 1861, one
Edward Colier, at that time the lawful district attorney of
what was then the first judicial district of Texas, acting for
and under authority of the State of Texas, filed in the name
and by the authority of the State of Texas a petition and began a suit in the district court of Fayette County, Texas, the
object and purpose of which suit was to have said district
court of Fayette County declare and adjudge that the league
of land described in plaintiffs' petition in this suit had escheated to the State of Texas, and to have the title to the
same divested out of the said Walter Hamilton and his heirs,
and have it vested in the State of Texas; that in said petition
plaintiff alleged that Walter Hamilton, late a resident of Fayette County, in said State, died on the-day of
,
,
intestate, and without heirs, and that no letters of adminisVOL. CLXI-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tration have ever been granted upon said decedent's estate in
Fayette County, in which succession should according to law
have been opened; that said decedent died seized and possessed of the league of land which is described in the petition
of plaintiffs in this suit and which is fully described in said
petition; that said Walter Hamilton was the last person seized
and possessed of said land; that there are no tenants upon
said tract of land, and no person is either in actual or constructive possession of said tract of land or any part thereof,
nor is there any person, claiming the estate in and to said
tract of land, known to petitioner; that no person has paid
the taxes on said land or any part thereof ; that the estate in
and to said tract of land has escheated to the State of Texas,
and praying for the grhnt of writ of possession in and to said
tract of land to said State; that afterwards, to wit, on the
18th day of May, 1861, the said district court of Fayette
County, Texas, made an order in said suit and caused it to be
enrolled in the minutes of the said court, commanding the
publication for four successive weeks in a newspaper printed
in the State of Texas of a notice setting forth the substance
of the allegations of said petition and requiring all persons interested in the estate of said Walter Hamilton to appear and
show cause at the next term of said court why the said league
of land should not be vested in the State of Texas; that pursuant thereto a notice setting forth at length said order and
the substance of said petition was issued by the clerk of said
court and published, as required by law,- for four successive
weeks in a weekly newspaper called the New Era, printed
and published in La Grange, in Fayette County, Texas; that
sundry persons intervened in said suit, and set up claims to
parts of said league of land; that said suit was continued
from term to term of said court until the J'uly term thereof
in 1871, when there was a trial had, and judgment entered
there to the effect that the league of land in controversy in
this suit is escheated unto the State of Texas, and the title
thereto is divested out of the said Walter Hamilton and his
heirs, and forever vested in the State of Texas. A true and
correct copy of said judgment, certified to under the hand

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.

and seal of the clerk of the district court of Fayette County,
Texas, is hereto attached and is made a part hereof' That
said judgment has never been reversed or vacated, but now
remains in full force and effect; that, by and because of said
judgment, the said Walter Hamilton, and all persons claiming
through or under him, are estopped and barred of the right
to have or maintain this action for the recovery of said land.
"And these defendants further say that afterwards, to wit,
on the 7th day of August, 1872, pursuant to the commands
of said judgment, the clerk of the district court of Fayette
County, Texas, issued and delivered to the sheriff of Fayette
County, Texas, an order of sale, commanding him to seize the
said league of land, and sell it in manner as directed in the
said judgment, and make disposition of the proceeds arising
from the sale as provided therein; that said land was so seized
and sold by said sheriff, and that these defendants and those
under whom they claim became the purchasers of the parts
of said league claimed by them at such sale, paid the amounts
I The judgment annexed was as follows:, "It is thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court, that the league of land described and set
forth in plaintiff's petition as follows, to wit, [giving the description by
metes and bounds] be, and the same is hereby, declared escheated unto the
State of Texas, and the title thereto is hereby divested out of the said
Walter Hamilton, his heirs and assigns forever, and vested in the State
of Texas. It is further ordered by the court, that the clerk of this court
do issue a writ, directed to the sheriff of Fayette County, Texas, commanding him, the said sheriff, to seize and sell the above described league
of land as under execution, without appraisement, for cash in United
States currency, on the first Tuesday in some month, after giving notice
of sale as the law directs, in lots of not less than ten nor more than
forty acres, and turn over the proceeds of said sale, after deducting
therefrom the expenses and costs of the same, to the comptroller of
public accounts for the State of Texas, taking therefor his duplicate receipt, one of which he shall file among the papers of this cause. It is
further ordered by the court, that the plaintiff, the State of Texas, do
have and recover of the intervenors herein, to wit, J. G. Brown, J. J.
Short, Win. Short, and Short, her costs of suit in this behalf had and
expended, for which execution may issue. It is further ordered that the
costs incurred herein by the plaintiff be taxed against the State of Texas,
and certified by the clerk of this court to the comptroller of public accounts, to be paid by the treasurer upon the warrant of said comptroller."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of their respective bids to the said sheriff, and received from
him deeds conveying the same to them; that for this reason,
also, these defendants say that said plaintiffs are estopped
from and barred of the right to have or maintain this action."
The plaintiffs, by an amended supplemental petition, demurred generally to this answer as insufficient in law, and
also specially excepted to it as follows:
1st. "The escheat proceedings and final judgment obtained
therein, set out in defendants' said answer, were begun and'
prosecuted under and by virtue of an act of the legislature
of the State of Texas, entitled 'An act to provide for vesting
in the State escheated property,' passed March 20, 1848, there
being at the date of the filing of said escheat proceedings no
other law or statute authorizing escheats; which said act was
repealed ' and annulled by the constitution of the State of
Texas of 1869, long prior to the date when the escheat judgment, pleaded and relied upon by defendants to defeat plaintiffs' title, was obtained; in this, that the law of 1848, sect. 11,
provides that the sheriff of the proper county shall seize the
real estate escheated to the State, and sell the same in the
manner therein provided, while the constitution of 1869,
art. 4, sect. 20, provides that the comptroller of the State
'shall take charge of all escheated property, keep an accurate
account of all moneys paid into the treasury, and of all lands
escheated to the State,' which provisions are contradictory
and- conflicting."
2d. If the act of 1848 was not repealed and annulled entirely, then section 11 thereof was repealed and annulled by
that provision of the constitution of 1869, " and, there being
no other provisions in said act by which compensation is
made to the heirs of the intestates whose property has been escheated, the balance of the said act is not self-acting, and is one
of confiscation, and therefore in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States and section 14
of the bill of rights of the constitution of 1869," by which
"no person's property shall be taken or applied to public use
without just compensation being made, unless by consent of
such person."

HAMILTON. v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

3d. The act of 1848, if not repealed by ther constitution of
1869, "was and is in contravention and violation of sect. 10,
art. 1, of the Constitution of the United States of America,
which provides that 'no State shall pass any bill of attainder
or law impairing the obligation of contracts,' in that said law
impairs the obligation of the contract between the State of
Texas and Walter F. Hamilton and his heirs by virtue of the
grant under which they hold said land, and seeks to forfeit or
confiscate the private property of said Hamilton, the ]and, by
appropriating it to the common fund without making due
compensation therefor."
The court overruled the general demurrer and the special
exceptions to the answer, and, upon the plaintiffs declining to
introduce any evidence to support their cause of action, rendered judgment for the defendants.
The plaintiffs tendered and were allowed a bill of exceptions
to the rulings and judgment of the court, and sued out this
*writof error.
Xr. I. E. Barnard and Mr. Floyd lcGown for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. S. R. Fisher and Mr. T. W. Gregory for defendants
in error.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover land in the county of Fayette
and State of Texas.
The petition alleged that the land was grantea in 1831 by
the Republic of Mexico to Walter F. Hamilton, and that on
April 13, 1888, the plaintiffs were the owners in fee simple
and entitled to the possession thereof, and the defendants
then ousted them.
The defendants, in their answer, relied on proceedings in
escheat, commenced in 1861, and in which judgment was
rendered in 1871.
In those proceedings, as set forth in the answer, the attor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion -of the Court.

ney for the State alleged that Walter Hamilton died, intestate
and without heirs, seized and possessed of this land, and that
the estate in the land escheated to the State of Texas; the
court ordered publication of notice to all persons interested in
the estate of Walter Hamilton to appear and show cause why
the land should not be vested in the State; after due publication of the order of notice, sundry persons intervened in the
suit, and set up claims to parts of the land; the case was continued from term to term until July term 1871, when a trial
was had, and judgment entered that the land "be, and the
same is hereby, declared escheated unto the State of Texas,
and the title is hereby divested out of the said Walter Hamilton, his heirs and assigns forever, and vested in the State of
Texas."
The answer alleged that that judgment had never been
reversed or vacated, but remained in full force; and that,
because of such judgment, Walter Hamilton, and all persons
claiming through or under him, were estopped and barred of
the right to maintain this action.
The answer further alleged that in 1872, pursuant to the
commands of that judgment, the sheriff sold the land by auction, and the defendants and those under whom they claimed
became purchasers of parts of the land at such sale, and paid
the amounts of their respective bids to the sheriff, and received
from him deeds conveying the land to them; and that, for
this reason also, the plaintiffs were estopped and barred to
maintain this action.
Although it is not directly stated, either in the petition or
in the answer, that the plaintiffs claimed the land as heirs of
Walter Hamilton, or Walter F. Hamilton, yet it is evident
that it was so understood and intended. If the plaintiffs did
not claim in his right, then, on the one:hand, the Mexican
grant to him in 1831, upon which they relied, both in the petition and in the exceptions to the answer, was immaterial;
and, on the other hand, neither the judgment in escheat in
1871, nor the sheriff's sale in 1872, set up in the answer, would
meet the allegation in the petition that the plaintiffs owned
the land in 1888. And it is assumed, in the briefs of both

RAMTLTON v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

parties, that the Walter F. Hamilton named in the petition
and the Walter Hamilton named in the answer were the same
person; and that the question to be decided is whether the
judgment in escheat, or the sheriff's sale under that judgment,
bars the plaintiffs claiming as his heirs.
By the law of England, before the Declaration of Independence, the lands of a man dyig intestate and without lawful
heirs reverted by escheat to the King as the sovereign lord;
but the King's title was not complete without an actual entry
upon the land, or judicial proceedings to ascertain the want
of heirs and devisees. Attorney Generalof Ontariov. Mercer,
8 App. Cas. 767, 772; 2 Bl. Com. 245. The usual form of
proceeding for this purpose was by an inquisition or inquest
of office before a jury, which was had upon a commission out.
of the Court of Chancery, but was really a proceeding at common law; and, if it resulted in favor of the King, then, by
virtue of ancient statutes, any one claiming title in the lands
might, by leave of that court, file a traverse, in the nature of
a plea or defence to the King's claim, and not in the nature
of an original suit. Lord Somers, in The Bankers' case, 14
Howell's State Trials, 1, 83; Ex parte Webster, 6 Ves. 809;
Exparte Gwydir, 4 Maddock, 281; In re Parry,L. R. 2 Eq.
95; People v. Cutting, 3 Johns. 1; Briggs v. Light-Boats, 11
Allen, 157, 172. The inquest of office was a proceeding in
rem; when there was a proper office found for the King, that
was notice to all persons who had claims to come in and assert
them; and, until so traversed, it was conclusive in the King's
favor. Bayley, J., in Doe v. Redfern, 12 East, 96, 103; 16
Vin. Ab. 86, pl. 1.
In this country, when the title to land fails for want of heirs
and devisees, it escheats to the State as part of its common
ownership, either by mere operation of law, or upon an inquest
of office, according to the law of the particular State. 4 Kent
Com. 424; 3 Washb. Real Prop. (4th ed.) 47, 48.
By the constitution of 1836 of the Republic of Texas, art.
4, sect. 13, it was provided that the legislature should, "as
early as practicable, introduce, by statute, the common law
of England, with such modifications as our circumstances, in

OCTOBER TER]M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

their judgment, may require." 2 Charters and Constitutions,
1757. And by the statutes of Texas, from the time of its
existence as an independent republic, the common law of
England, so far as not inconsistent with the constitution and
laws of Texas, has been declared to be, together with such
constitution and laws, the rule of decision, and to continue in
force until altered or repealed by the legislature. Texas Stat.
January 20, 1840, Paschal's Digest, (4th ed.) art. 978; Rev.
Stat. of 1879, ยง 3128; Courand v. Volimer, 31 Texas, 397;
Barrett v. Kelly, 31 Texas, 476.
By the constitution of the State of Texas of 1845, it was
provided, in art. 4, sect. 10, that the district court should have
original jurisdiction "of all suits in behalf of the State to
recover penalties, forfeitures and eseheats;" and in art. 13,
sect. 4, as follows: "All fines, penalties, forfeitures and
escheats which have accrued to the Republic of Texas under
the constitution and laws shall accrue to the State of Texas;
and the legislature shall by law provide a method for determining what lands may have been forfeited or escheated."
2 Charters and Constitutions, 1773, 1781.
By the settled course of decision in the Supreme Court
of the State, no proceedings for escheat can be had, except
under and according to an act of the legislature. Jones v.
.Mc.asters, 20 How. 8, 21; Hancock v. McKinney, 7 Texas,
384, 456; lViederanders v. State, 64 Texas, 133.
The legislature, on March 20, 1848, passed a statute, entitled
"An act to provide for vesting in the State escheated property." General Laws of Texas of 1847-48, c. 145, p. 210;
Paschal's Digest, arts. 3657-3674.
By section 1 of that statute, (Pasch. Dig. art. 3657,) "if any
person die seized of any real, or possessed of any personal
estate, without any devise thereof, and having no heirs, or
where the owner of any real or personal estate shall be
absent for the term of seven years, and is not known to
exist, such estate shall escheat to and vest to the State."
The purpose and import of the second clause of this section,
concerning an owner absent for seven years and not known
to exist, have been, declared -by the Supreme Court of the

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

State to be "that proof of absence of one who is not known
to exist for the length of time mentioned is presumptive
evidence of his death. It is not, therefore, a ground for
escheat of itself, but evidence of one of the elements of title
by escheat." Hughes v. State, 41 Texas, 10, 20. This is only
important by way of explaining the scope of the statute, since,
in the present case, both parties assume and rely upon the
death of the former owner.
By section 2 (3658), when no letters testamentary or of
administration appear to have been granted upon the estate
of a person who has died without heirs, it is made the duty
of the district attorney to file in the district court of the
county "where such succession is required to be opened,"
which is as much as to say, where his estate would be administered, a petition setting forth "a description of the estate,
the name of the person last lawfully seized or possessed of the
same, the names of the tenants, or persons in actual possession,
if any, and the names of the persons claiming the estate, if
any such are known to claim, and the facts and circumstances in consequence of which such estate is claimed to
have escheated; praying for a writ of possession for the
same, in behalf of the State."
Section 3 (3659) requires 8cire facias to be issued to all persons named in the petition as in possession of or claiming the
estate, requiring them to appear and show cause why it
should not be vested in the State. Section 4 (3660) further
requires an order of notice to be published four weeks in a
newspaper printed within the State, stating briefly the contents of the petition, and requiring "all persons interested in
the estate" to appear and show cause why it should not be
vested in the State. The order of notice by publication to all
persons interested in the estate is essential to the jurisdiction
of the court; and, if no such notice is shown by the record, a
judgment for the State will be reversed on writ of error, even
if sued out by parties who were named in the petition and
appeared and pleaded in the cause. State v. Teulon, 41 Texas,
249; MViederanders v. State, 64 Texas, 133; lagina v. State,
84 Texas, 664, 667.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 5 (3661), "all persons named in such petition as
tenants or persons in actual possession, or claimants of the
estate," may appear and plead, and traverse the facts stated
.in the petition, or the title of the State; "and any other person claiming an interest in such estate may appear and be
made a defendant and plead, by motion for that purpose in
open court." By section 6 (3662), if no person, after notice
as aforesaid, shall appear and plead, judgment shall be rendered by default for the State. By section 7 (3663),. "if any
person appear and deny the title set up by the State, or traverse any material fact in the petition, issue shall be made up
and tried as other issues of fact." By section 8 (3664), "if
after the issue and trial it appears, from the facts found or
admitted, that the State hath good title to the estate, real or
personal, in the petition mentioned, or any part thereof, judgment shall be rendered that the State shall be seized or possessed thereof, and, at the discretion of the court, recover
-costs against the defendants." By section 9 (3665), "if it
appear that the State hath no title in such estate, the defendant shall recover his costs, to be taxed and certified by the
clerk; and the comptroller of public accounts shall, on such
certificate being filed in his office, issue a warrant therefor on
the treasury of the State, which shall be paid as other demands
on the treasury." And by section 10 (3666), "when any judgment shall be rendered that the State be seized or possessed
of any estate, such judgment shall contain a description
thereof, and shall vest the title in the State."
By section 11 (3667), "a writ shall be issued to the sheriff
of the proper county, commanding him to seize such estate,
vested in the State;" and "he shall dispose thereof at public
auction, in the manner provided by law for -the sale of property under execution." By section 12 (3668), a copy of the
record and account of sale, exemplified under the seal of the
court, is required to be deposited in the office of the comptroller of public accounts, and another copy recorded in the
office of the recorder of the cofinty; "and such record shall
preclude all parties and privies thereto, their heirs and assigns."
By section 13 (3669), " any party who shall have appeared

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

to any proceeding, and the district attorney oil behalf of the
State, shall have the right to prosecute an appeal or writ of
error upon such judgment."
Section 14 (3670) requires that "the comptroller shall keep
just accounts of all moneys paid into the treasury, and of all
lands vested in the State, under the provisions of this act."
Sections 15 (3671) and 16 (3672) provide that "if any person appear, after the death of the testator or intestate, and
claim any money paid into the treasury under this act," as
heir, devisee or legatee, he may, by petition in the district
court for the county in which the estate was sold, and after
notice to the district attorney, and proof that the petitioner
is an heir, devisee, legatee or legal representative, obtain an
order directing the comptroller to issue his warrant on the'
treasurer for payment thereof.
Section 17 (3673) simply relates to the duty of the district
attorney to obtain from the clerk of any probate court
moneys, or title papers to land, not claimed by any heir, devisee or legal representative of a deceased person.
By section 18 (3674), "all property, escheated under the
provisions of this act, shall remain subject to the disposition
of the State, as may hereafter be prescribed by law."
Sections 1770-1785 of the Revised Statutes of Texas of
1879 reenact, substantially and almost verbally, the provisions
of the statute of 1848, except by requiring the publication of
the order of notice for eight weeks, instead of four weeks as
in section 4; by omitting sections 12 and 17; and by inserting the words "The proceeds of" at the beginning of section
18.
These proceedings for the escheat of the estate of a deceased
person for want of heirs or devisees, like ordinary proceedings
for the administration of his estate, presuppose that he is dead;
if he is still alive, the court is without jurisdiction, and its proceedings are null and void, even in a collateral proceeding.
Grifith v. Frazier,8 Cranch, 9, 23; Scott v. AfcNeal, 154 U. S.
34; flall v. Claiborne,27 Texas, 217; Withers v. Patterson,27

Texas, 491, 497; .Martin v. Robinson, 67 Texas, 368, 375;
Caplen v. Compton, 5 Texas Civ. App. 410. And if the death

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

,of the former owner, intestate 'and without heirs, is not alleged in the petition, or is not proved at the trial, a judgment
for the State is erroneous and reversible by appeal or writ of
,error. Hughes v. State, 41 Texas, 10; Wiederanders v. State,
64 Texas, 133; Hanna v. State, 84 Texas, 664.
But the whole object in proceedings for escheat, as in pro.ceedings of administration, is to ascertain who are entitled to
the estate of a deceased person ; in proceedings of administration, to distribute the assets, after payment of debts, among
those who come forward and prove themselves to be next of
kin; in proceedings for escheat, to ascertain and determine,
-once for all, so far as concerns the title in the land itself,
whether the former owner left no heirs or devisees, that being
the single question on which depends the issue whether or
not the land has escheated to the State.
Consequently, when (as is admitted in the present case) the
former owner was dead; and in the proceedings for escheat
{as shown by the record on which the defendants rely) the
petitibn describes the land, gives .the name of the former
-owner, and alleges that he died intestate and without heirs,
that no letters of administration upon his estate had been
granted, that there is no tenant or person in actual or con:structive possession of the land, nor any person, known to the
petitioner, claiming an estate therein, and that the land has
-escheated to the State of Texas; and an order of notice to all
-persons interested in the estate has been published, as required
by the statute; and, after a hearing of all who appear and
-plead, judgment is entered, describing the land, and declaring
that it has escheated to the State; the judgment is conclusive
,evidence of the State's title in the land, not only against any
tenants or claimants having had acttial notice by secirefacias,
or having appeared and pleaded, but also against all other
persons interested in the estate and having had constructive
notice by publication.
That such is the effect of the judgment in favor of the State
is clearly shown by the decision in Wiederandersv. State, above
-cited, in which the reasons for holding that, if the notice re-quired by the statute to all persons interested in the estate

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

had not been published, the court had no jurisdiction to enter
judgment, even against persons who actually appeared and
contested the claim of the State, were stated by the court as
follows:
"The purpose for which proceedings of this character are
instituted is to have a judicial declaration, in the form of a
solemn judgment made by a court having jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and of the persons in interest in so far as publication can give it, that the facts exist which, under the law,
cast title upon the State to property which, at s6me former
time, (in case of lands) it had clothed a person with title."
"The law now in force must be deemed to be a law providing a method for giving effect to escheats. R. S. 1770-1788."
"We are of the opinion that the publication of notice, required by the statute, is made necessary to the exercise of the
general jurisdiction conferred, and that without it the district
court had no jurisdiction to try the case.
"The object of such a proceeding is not simply to have a
decree 0ieclaring the escheat, and vesting the title in the State;
but by and through process, to be issued under the judgment,
to divest not only the title of persons entitled to take the property of the deceased as his heirs, if perchance any such there
be, but also by a sale to divest the title of the State, and to
start, and confer upon the purchaser, a new title deraigned
directly from the sovereign of the soil. R. S..1777-1780.
"The proceeding, while not strictly a prodeeding in rem,
has many of its characteristics ; yet the statute does not direct
a seizure of the thing, which, in some cases, has been held to
support a judgment strictly in rem. It applies to personalty,
as well as realty. The mere institution of the proceeding
creates no presumption that there is no one capable of taking
the estate under the rules regulating the descent of estates of
deceased persons; the presumption is to the contrary; and
the effect of the judgment, if rendered after all persons interested in the estate are notified of the pendency and purpose
of the proceeding, in the only manner in which they can be,
if unknown, is to destroy that presumption, and to make the
title of the State clear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"From the time the property is sold under a valid decree,
the claim of he person who might have taken it, as heir,
devisee or legatee, is against the proceeds of the property,
which must be paid into the state treasury, (R. S. 1780-1785,)
and to recover even that, he is driven to a suit.
"It certainly is not the intention that the purchaser of
escheated lands shall be subjected to the peril of losing them
after they have been regularly escheated and sold, if an heir,
devisee or legatee shall subsequently make claim; nor that
personalty which, from day to day, changes hands, shall be
subject to the claim of such persons, however valid such claim
may have been if asserted in proper time and place. Yet such
results would follow if the jurisdiction of the court is not so
brought into exercise, by a substantial compliance with the
requisites of the statute, as to clothe it with power, by its
judgment, to conclusively settle the title to the property as
against all persons." 64 Texas, 135-138.
The like opinion was expressed by Chief Justice Shaw upon
the effect of proceedings under a similar statute of Massachusetts, in a case in which it was held that a conveyance of real
estate of a citizen dying intestate and without heirs could not
be made by the Commonwealth until the rendition of judgment in its favor upon an inquest of office. The Chief Justice said: "Where a subject dies intestate, as the estate
descends to collateral kindred indefinitely. the presumption of
law is that he had heirs, and this presumption will be good
against the Commonwealth until it institutes the regular proceedings by inquest of office, by which the fact, whether the
intestate did or did not die without heirs, can be ascertained,
and if this fact is established in favor of the Commonwealth,
it rebuts the contrary presumption, and the Commonwealth,
by force of the judgment, and of the statute before cited,
becomes seized in law and in fact. In such case, therefore,
the court are of opinion ihat an inquest of office is necessary,
and that the Commonwealth cannot be deemed to be seized
without such inquest. Jackson v. Adams, 'I Wendell, 367;
Doe v. Redfern, 12 East, 96.

So far as this depends upon

general principles, it seems to be a rule highly reasonable in

HAMILTOI v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

itself, and tends greatly to the security and regularity of titles.
By the mode of taking inquests, prescribed by the law of this
Commonwealth, St. 1791, c. 13, ยง 2, general notice is to be
given of the claim of the Commonwealth, any person is
admitted to traverse it, a trial by jury is to be had, and costs
are given to the prevailing party. These are highly reasonable and equitable provisions, and it is manifestly -for the
quiet of the Commonwealth and the security of the citizen,
that they should be pursued, before the Commonwealth shall
be permitted to take into 'its own custody and dispose of
estates, upon a claim which, if not doubtful, is at least not
apparent." Wilbur v. Tobey, 16 Pick. 177, 180.
The constitution of Texas of 1866, art. 4, sect. 6, contained a
provision, similar to that of the constitution of 1845, as to the
jurisdiction of the district court over escheats; and contained
no other provision on the subject of escheats. 2 Charters and
Constitutions, 1789. That constitution, as was admitted by
the plaintiffs, did not take away the power of the legislature
over the subject, or affect the statute of 1848 or proceedings
under it.
But it was strenuously contended that this statute was
repealed by the constitution of 1869, which -while
embodying, in art. 5, sect. 7, the provision of the former constitutions
as to the jurisdiction of the district court over escheats; and
repeating in art. 4, sect. 20, the provision of art. 5, sect. 23, of
the constitution of 1866, establishing the office of comptroller
of public accounts, to be elected by the qualified voters of the
State, for the term of four years -also
defined the comptroller's duties as follows: " H e shall superintend the fiscal
affairs of the State; give instructions to the assessors and collectors of the taxes; settle with them for taxes; take charge
of all escheated property; keep an accurate account of all
moneys paid into the treasury, and of all lands escheated to
the State; publish annually a list of delinquent assessors and
collectors, and demand of them a,, annual list of all taxpayers
in their respective counties, to be filed in his office; keep all
the accounts of the State; audit all the claims against the
State; draw warrants upon, the treasury in favor of the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

creditors; and perform such other duties as may be prescribed
by law." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1794, 1809, 1811.
This definition of the duties of the comptroller in the constitution of 1869 nearly follows the words of the statutes existing at the time of its adoption. Paschal's Digest, arts. 5414,
542-4, 5426, 3670, 5194, 5416, 5418, 5420. The principal difference is in substituting, for the words of section 14 of the act
of 1848, requiring the comptroller to "keep just accounts of
all moneys paid into the treasury, and of all lands vested in
the State, under the provisions of this act," the words, "take
charge of all escheated property; keep an accurate account of
all moneys paid into the treasury, and of all lands escheated
to the State."
As the constitution of 1869 repeats, in so many words, the
provision of former constitutions, by which the district court
is vested with original jurisdiction of all causes in behalf of
the State to recover escheats; and as the statute of 1848 made
it the duty of the comptroller to keep accounts, not only of
all moneys paid into the treasury, but also of all lands vested
in the State, under its provisions; it is difficult to see how the
insertion of the general words "take charge of all escheated
property," in the definition of the comptroller's duties in the
constitution of 1869, either increased his powers, or diminished
those of the district court, in relation to escheats.
The whole object of inserting in the constitution a definition
of the principal duties of the comptroller would seem to have
been to fix by the fundamental law a matter which would
otherwise have been subject to the discretion of the legislature.
The only doubt thrown upon this arises out of the opinion
delivered in --ug]hes v. State, above cited, in which Mr. Justice
Moore said: "Whether this statute had not been repealed by
the provision in the constitution of 1869, which we have cited,
may, we think, admit of serious question; but as it is not
necessary to the determination of the present case, we are not
called upon at present to determine it. We think, however,
that it is quite evident this section of the constitution is in
conflict with, and therefor6 revokes, the authority conferred

HAMILTON v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

by the statute of 1848 upon the court to order the sale of
escheated land, if such, indeed, can be held to be the proper
construction of this statute in view of 'the conflicting provisions of its different sections." 41 Texas, 18, 19.
But the weight of that suggestion is much lessened, if not
wholly counterbalanced, by several considerations. The decision in that case was put upon the distinct ground that the
petition and the proof were both insufficient. In-another case,
decided at the same term, in which the opinion was delivered
by the same judge, as well as in an earlier case of a writ of
error to review the very judgment now pleaded, and in at
least two later cases, above cited, in each of which this proposition, if sound, would have been decisive, it was not even
mentioned. State v. Teulon, 41 Texas, 219; Brown v. State,
36 Texas, 282; Wiederanders v. State, 64 Texas, 133; Hlanna
v. State, 84: Texas, 664. And after the constitution of 1869
had been in force for ten years, the legislature, in revising and
codifying the statutes of the State, reinacted all the material
provisions of the act of 1848, both as to obtaining a judgment
declaring the land to have escheated, and as to a subsequent
sale of the land by the sheriff; and clearly manifested its
understanding and intention that the provisions for such a
sale did and should remain in force, by prefixing the words
"The proceeds of" to the. last section, which had directed
"all property escheated in accordance with the provisions'of"
the act to "remain subject to the disposition of the'State, as
may hereafter be prescribed by law." Rev. Stat. of 1879,

1785.
The plaintiffs somewhat relied on art. 10, sect. 6, of the constitution of 1869, which provides that "the legislature shall
not hereafter grant lands to any person or persons, nor shall
any certificates for land be sold at the land office, except to
actual sellers upon the same, and in lots not exceeding one
hundred and sixty acres." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1816.
But this evidently relates only to legislative grants. of land,
and not to judicial proceedings to declare and enforce escheats.
Even if the suggestion in Hughme v. State, above cited, that
art. 4, sect. 20, of the constitution of 1869, relating to the
VOL. CLXI-18

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

comptroller of accounts, "is in conflict with, and therefore
revokes, the authority conferred by the statute of 1848 upon
the court to order the sale of escheated land," should be considered as well founded, it would affect only section 11 of the
statute, authorizing the sale, and so much of the subsequent
sections as concern that subject; and would- leave unaffected
the preceding sections, providing for a judgment to be rendered, upon due allegation and proof, and after notice to all
persons interested, ascertaining and declaring that the land
has escheated to the State, and vesting in the State the title
to the land. The provisions looking to a judgment vesting
title to the land in the State are distinct and severable from
the provisions for a sale, and a conversion into money, of the
land after it has vested in the State; and if the latter provisions are for any reason invalid, they may be considered as
stricken out, and the former provisions stand good. Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Zwernemann v. VFon Rosenberg, 76
Texas, 522. And the judgment set up in the answer in this
case, so far as it determined that the title of the land had
vested by escheat in the State, was valid, even if the order for
a sale of the land was not. Ludlow v. Ramsey, 11 Wall. 581.
It follows that, if the sale and conveyance by the sheriff to
the defendants were invalid and vested no title in them, the
previous judgment, ascertaining and declaring the escheat,
vested a good title in the State of Texas against all persons
claiming as heirs or devisees of the former owner; and that
judgment, although it does not prove the title to be in the defendants, proves it to be out of the plaintiffs, and affords a
complete. defence to this action. Love v. Simms, 9 Wheat.
515, 524; Christy v. Scott, 14 How. 282, 292; -Doswell v. De
La Lanza, 20 How. 29, 33.
As to personal property, indeed, a judgment in rem, after
notice by publication only, might not bind persons who had
no actual notice of the proceedings, unless the thing had been
first seized into the custody of the court. The MAfary, 9 Cranch,
126, 144; Scott v. .Mc37 eal, 154 U. S. 34, 46 ; Hilton v. auyot,
159 U. S. 113, 167. But it was within the power of the legislature of Texas to provide for determining and quieting the

