MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Syllabus.

We have found no case in this court which is authority for
the proposition, that language, such as is under consideration in
this case, exempts from further taxation both the capital stock
of the corporation and the shares of stock in the hands of individual shareholders. As the Farringtoncase decides that
this language does import that the charter tax is laid upon the
shares in the hands of individual shareholders, and that those
shares are exempt from further taxation, that question is set at
rest, and there being nothing in any case which extends that
language to both properties, we hold that when it is made
applicable to the separate shares in the hands of individual
shareholders, it does not apply to or cover the case of the
capital stock of the corporation, and that such stock is liable
to be taxed, as the State may determine.
This determines the liability of the capital stock of the
Union and Planters' Bank to taxation, and of course it overrules
any claim on the part of that bank for exemption from taxation of its surplus or accumulated profits. The question
whether such surplus could be taxed if the capital stock itself
were to be regarded as exempt has also been decided in the
preceding case of the Bank of Commerce. The decree of the
Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the bill with costs.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

MERCANTILE

dissented.

BANK

v.

TENNESSEE,

FOR

THE

USE OF MEMPHIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 6"6. Argued January 20, 21, 22,1896.-Decided March 2, 1696.

A judicial sale and conveyance, made under order of court, of the.franchises
of a corporation whose taxation is limited by the act of the legislature
of the State incorporating it to a rate therein named, carries to the purVOL. CLXI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
chaser, (if anything,) only the franchise to be a corporation; and a corporation organized to receive and receiving conveyance of such franchises.
is not the same corporation as the original corporation, and is liable to
taxation according to the constitution and laws of the State in force at
the time of the sale, or which may be subsequently adopted or enacted,
and is not entitled to the limitation and exemption contained in the original act of incorporation.

Tnis also was a bill filed by the State of Tennessee
against the Mercantile Bank for the purpose of collecting
taxes alleged to be due plaintiff below under the statutes of
that State.
The bill alleged that the legislature of Tennessee, by an act
passed February 29, 1856, incorporated the Gayoso Savings
Institution, and by the third section of the act it was provided
that the institution should "pay to the State an annual tax of
one half of one per cent on each share of the capital stock,
which shall be in lieu of all other taxes." The company, as
complainants allege, was duly organized under the act of incorporation, at what date it is not known, but at all events
it was engaged in a general banking business in the city of
Memphis from a date as early as 1856 down to the year 1869.
In that year the institution failed, and a bill was filed by its
president, John 0. Lanier, in the proper court, for an administration of the affairs of the company as an insolvent corporation under the laws of the State. In the course of the
proceedings one E. B. Mlcenry -was appointed receiver of
the assets of the company by the court, and on the 11th day
of June, 1880, the court directed the receiver to sell the
charter of the company. On the 28th of June of that year
the receiver did sell the charter at public auction for the sum
of $201, to Julius A. Taylor, and the sale was afterwards duly
reported to and confirmed by the court. On the 26th of March,
1881, the legislature of the State passed an act changing the
name of the company to that of the Mercantile Bank, and
thereupon M r. Taylor undertook to sell the charter to John
R. Godwin and others, who organized the bank with a capital
stock of $200,000. Since the year 1885 the company has been
carrying on a general banking business in the city of Memphis,
claiming to be organized under and to have all the rights, privi-

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

leges, and immunities originally granted to the Gayoso institution, and that by virtue of this claim neither the defendant
company nor its shareholders had paid any taxes whatever to
the State, county, or municipality since its organization, except
the one half of one per cent as provided in the charter.
Complainant charged that it was wholly incompetent to sell
the charter of the Gayoso Savings Institution, and that the defendant company had no right or title thereto, and especially
that it had no rightful claim to immunity from taxation as contained in that charter, and it is averred that all the stock of
the defendant company was subscribed for and issued since
the adoption by the State, on May 4, 1870, of the constitution
of that year. For the year 1891 the capital stock of the company was assessed at a valuation of $160,000. The bill then
further alleged the various statutes of the State of Tennessee
providing for the assessment of shares or of the capital stock
of corporations, and various other allegations were made tending to show a valid assessment either upon the capital stock
or the shares of stock in the hands of shareholders, if the
claim for exemption was not well founded. It prayed for a
discovery of the names of the shareholders, and that the court
may determine whether the corporation or the shareholders
have any immunity from taxation under the charter of that
company; and that complainants have a decree against the
defendant corporation for such taxes, with interest, etc.
To that bill the defendants filed a demurrer, and as grounds
thereof stated that the defendant, the Mercantile Bank, was
treated and sued in the proceeding as a corporation organized
under the charter above mentioned, and exercising all the
powers and franchises conferred by it and in the enjoyment
of the privileges and immunities bestowed by it, and that,
therefore, the complainants cannot treat the defendant as a
corporation under such charter and at the same time deny
its right and title thereto; that it could not treat the defendant as a corporation under that charter and then deny the
existence of the charter; that it could not sue the said defendant as a corporation under the charter for the purpose of
imposing burdens on it, and then deny the benefit of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

privileges and immunities conferred thereunder; that if the
Mercantile Bank had no right or title to the charter, and
if the charter was destroyed and ended by the judicial proceedings referred to, then there was no such corporation as
the Mercantile Bank, and the business conducted under that
name was a mere partnership, and the bill should have been
filed against the persons composing such partnership. Another
ground of demurrer was, that it appeared in the third section
of the charter above mentioned, under which the bank was
organized, and it appeared on the face of the bill, that the
bank was to pay to the State an annual tax of one half of
one per cent on each share of capital stock, which was to
be in lieu of all other taxes, and that this constituted a
contract between the State on the one side and the bank
or shareholders on the other, under which both the capital
of the bank and the shares of stock in the hands of the
shareholders were exempt, and! that the various acts of the
legislature subsequent to the grant of that charter and providing for the assessment of the shares of stock in corporations, if applied to the defendant corporation, impaired the
obligations of the contract, and were in conflict with section
10, article I of the Constitution of the United States, and
were void.
This demurrer was overruled, with leave to insist upon the
grounds thereof upon the hearing.
Complainants then, by leave of court, filed their amended
and supplemental bill, adding various allegations not material
to here notice, except that it was stated that by a stipulation
between the parties the defendant corporation had assumed
the payment of any liability that might be established against
the shareholders therein, and that the defendant 0. Hunter
Raine should be made a defendant in his capacity as a
shareholder, and that whatever liability should be established
against him should be taken as established against all the
shareholders in the defendant corporation, and that the liability of all those established should be assumed by the
defendant corporation.
To avoid the labor and expense of taking proof and to

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

bring the case to a final hearing, the parties then agreed
upon certain facts, among which were the following: The
charter of the Gayoso Savings Institution and all amendments thereto referred to in the pleadings are set forth in
the statement. The first section of the charter named certain individuals, and it was enacted that they and their
associates and successors "be, and they are hereby, created
a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the
Gayoso Savings Institution, and by that name shall have
succession," etc. Provision is then made for subscription for
the capital stock, which is to be divided into shares of $50
each, and when 200 shares shall have been subscribed and the
sum of one dollar per share paid thereon the shareholders
may meet and elect five directors. The third section contains
the exemption clause, which, as therein set forth, is as follows:
"Said institution shall have a lien on the stock for debts due
it by the shareholders, before and in preference to other
creditors, except the State for taxes, and shall pay to the
State an annual tax of one half of one per cent on each share
of capital stock, which shall be in lieu of all other taxes."
Section 4 granted to it the usual banking privileges as therein
set forth. An amendment to this charter, passed March 26,
1881, changed the name of the Gayoso Savings Institution to
the Mercantile Bank of Memphis. The statement also shows
who were the owners of the capital stock of the Gayoso Savings Institution at the time of the commencement of the suit
of John C. Lanier against the institution, mentioned in the
original bill.
It is also stated that on the 5th day of March, 1881, Julius
A. Taylor (the purchaser of the charter at the receiver's sale
in June, 1880,) and eight other persons, who were associated
with him, held a meeting as stockholders of the Gayoso Savings
Institution, the minutes of which meeting are therein set out.
The minutes set forth that on the 5th day of March, -1881, a
meeting of the stockholders of the Gayoso Savings Institution
was held in Memphis, at which certain stockholders were
present and who were therein named, and that one of them
was electbd chairman of the meeting, and he reported that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the requisite number of shares, 200, had been duly subscribed
to as follows, (giving the names of the subscribers,) and that
the sum of one dollar per share each had been paid in. It
was then moved and seconded to proceed to the election of
six directors, which was carried, and such directors were then
elected. Just before the time of this meeting the parties
therein named signed and executed a stock subscription
paper, which is in the following words: "We, the undersigned, agree to take stock in the Gayoso Savings Institution
of Memphis, Tennessee, to the amount set opposite our
respective names, and to pay the same in such manner as
mIay be ordered by the board of directors, having this day
paid in the sum of one dollar on each share." (Here follow
the names of the subscribers.) These are the "stockholders"
who are mentioned in the minutes of the stockholders' meeting. It is stated that this organization of the institution was
continued regularly and without intermission, but without the
actual transaction of any banking business until 1883, and
that in April, 1883, the said Julius A. Taylor and his associates transferred their stock in the corporation, by regular and
proper transfer of the certificates of stock, to John R."Godwin
and his associates, and on April 17, 1883, John R. Godwin
and his associates, at a stockholders' meeting of said corporation, increased the capital stock to $200,000, and began a
regular banking business under said charter, and said corporation has, under that organization, continued said banking
business down to the present date, with the same capital
stock of $200,000.
The regularity of the organization from the 5th day of
March, 1881, the date when Julius A. Taylor and his eight
associates held the stockholders' meeting above mentioned,
is not questioned. Of the $200,000 capital stock which was
issued by John R. Godwin and his associates on the 17th of
April, 1883, $180,000 was new stock, which was divided
between said John R. Godwin and his associates. The
Gayoso Savings Institution from the time it was originally
organized under its charter in 1856 to the date when the bill
was filed in the case of John 0. Lanier and others in 1869,"

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

regularly paid year after year to the State of Tennessee the
commutation tax mentioned in its charter of one half of one
per cent on each share of capital stock, and since the 5th.day
of March, 1881, the defendant corporation, under the name of
the Gayoso Savings Institution and the Mercantile Bank, hasconstantly paid said commutation tax to the State down to
this date. It is further stated that the defendants can produce no evidence of the payment of said commutation tax
during the interval above shown. Proper copies of the decree
of sale of the charter in the case of John 0. Lanier against
the Gayoso Savings Institution, the receiver's report of the
sale and the decree confirming the same are set forth in the
agreed statement, and it is admitted that a part of the papers
in that case are lost or mislaid and cannot be found.
It was further admitted that on June 10, 1880, the receiver
in the case of Lanier v. Te Gayoso Savings

1n8titution,

filed

a petition in the case asking for instructions as to what should
be done with the charter. The petition was lost and no copy
could be found. It was stated that there was never any transfer of the certificates of stock from the old stockholders in the
Gayoso Savings Institution to Julius A. Taylor and his associates, unless as a matter of law such transfer can be made out
as the legal effect of the facts above stated. With one or
two exceptions all the old stockholders in the Gayoso Savings
Institution were residents of the city of Memphis and the
State of Tennessee, and none of them ever claimed any interest in the charter or the business being conducted thereunder or in the stock issued thereunder after the sale of the
charter to the said Julius A. Taylor. It was alleged that
"the defendants contend that the legal effect of the facts
herein stated and of the steps taken in said case of John C.
-Lanierv. The Gayoso Savings Institution, as set forth above,
was to make a legal transfer of the stock in said Gayoso
Savings Institution from the persons who owned the same at
the time said bill was filed in said case to the said J. A. Taylor
and his associates and their successors. This proposition is
denied by complainants, and the question is submitted for
decision to the court." Further facts in relation to the assess-

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

m~ht of stock are also set forth, as are also certain cross-bills
filed by certain depositors in the bank against Lanier, and
others who were officers and directors in the bank, alleging
fraud on their part in the reception of deposits and in the
payment of certain debts or claims. Upon this agreed statement of facts and the bill and supplemental bill and demurrer the parties went to trial.
The decree in the chancery court was in favor of plaintiffs
in error on all points. An appeal was taken by the State to
the Supreme Court. That court reversed the decree of the
chancery court, and held that the plaintiffs in error were not
entitled to the immunity from taxation contained in the third
section of the charter passed in 1856, and gave a decree against
the shares of stock and surplus for the full amount of the taxes
claimed by the city and county from the year 1888 down.
The defendants below sued out a writ of error from this court.,
and assigned as ground of error that the judgment of the
court should have been in their favor, denying the right of
the State or city to recover any taxes from either the corporation or shareholders because of the immunity from taxation
granted to them by the third section of the charter, and that
a denial of that right deprived the defendants below of the
immunity guaranteed to them by the contract contained in
the third section of the charter, and that the tax laws affirmed
to be valid against them are repugnant to the contract. provision of the Constitution of the United States. As a second
ground of error, it was stated that the court erred in denying
to the corporation, plaintiff in error, an exemption from taxation on its surplus and undivided profits. And the third
ground was stated to be error of the court in adjudging a
liability of the corporation, plaintiff in error, to pay the privilege tax mentioned therein on the same ground of immunity
granted to it by the third section of the charter.
fr. T. P. Turley, (with whom was Mr. L. E Wright on the
brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
M'. S. P. 1IFalker, (with whom was -Y'. C. W. .Aetcalf and
Mr. F. T. Edmondom on the brief,) for defendant in error.

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUsTICE

PEcKHAx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the original charter granted to the Gayoso Savings Institution in 1856, under which an organization was effected
and the institution did business for many years, an exemption
was granted to it similar to that granted in the case of the
Bank of Commerce, just decided, ante, 134.

That exemption

was applicable -to the shareholders upon their shares of stock,
and did not apply to- the capital stock of the institution. The
shareholders in this case have been assessed at a greater rate
than is permitted by the third section of the charter in question, and the assessment would, therefore, be void if that section is applicable to this case.
The corporation plaintiff in error can make title to the
charter in question only by virtue of the sale thereof under the
decree in the suit of Lanier against the Gayoso Savings Institution, which was commenced in 1869. There is not a particle of evidence which in terms shows the transfer of the shares
of stock in that institution owned by its shareholders at the
time when the charter Was sold, nor is there any evidence
from which such transfer of stock by those shareholders to
Taylor and his associates can properly be inferred; neither
they nor their assignees of the charter can claim to be the
same original corporation by reason of any previous purchase
of specific shares held by the former shareholders. The record
shows that the receiver was ordered "to sell at public auction
to the highest bidder for cash the charter of the Gayoso Savings Institution, together with all the rights and privileges
thereunder." It was the charter which the receiver assumed
to sell and which alone he did sell, and not any specific shares
of stock. The report of the receiver shows that under that
order, which was.made on the 11th of June, 1880, he advertised the charter of the Gayoso Savings Institution for sale on
the 29th day of June, 1880, "together with all rights, privileges and franchises thereunder," and that on the last named
day the charter was struck off and sold to Julius A. Taylor
at and for the sum of $201, "his being the highest, best and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

last bid; that such bid was followed by paying to the receiver
the amount of same in cash, which the receiver holds subject
to the order of the court." On the 21st of July, 1880,
.the chancellor made a decree, in which it is stated that the
cause "came on to be further heard on the report of sale by
the receiver filed herein, which is in words and figures following: [Here insert report;] and there being no exception to
said report, the same is in all things confirmed, and the title
to the charter of the Gayoso Savings Institution, with all the
powers,privileges and franchises thereunto belonging, is hereby
vested in J. A. Taylor, his heirs and assigns." This citation
from the record is clear evidence of what the transaction purported to be. There is no mention or hint of any assignment
or transfer of the shares of stock to the purchaser of the
charter by the then owners of such shares, and it seems to be
quite clear that none such was ever made. At any rate, there
is not the slightest proof upon the subject showing affirmatively that it was made. At the time of the sale of the charter
under the decree in the Lanier suit the constitution of Tennessee had been adopted by the people in 1870, and since that
time has been in full force and operation. That constitution
prohibited exemptions from taxation, and provided that all
property, real, personal or mixed, should be taxed, excepting
such as in explicit terms was exempt, stating what property
might be and what should be exempt from taxation, and
directing that all the rest shall be taxed.
We may inquire no~v, what was the effect of the sale of the
charter under the decree in the lanier case ? We have been
referred to no statute authorizing the sale of charters of corporations circumstanced as the Gayoso Savings Institution
was at the time of this sale, and it is questionable, to say the
least, whether any title to the charter passed by the proceedings under the decree in the Lanier case. In order to show
the existence of a contract of exemption the corporation plaintiff in error must connect itself with and show that it or its
shareholders are entitled to the benefit of the provision of
exemption contained in the charter of 1856. Certainly no
greater power was exercised by the court of chancery in de-

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

creeing the sale of the charter in the Lanier suit than would
have been the case had a statute existed providing for the
mortgaging of the charter, and its subsequent sale at foreclosure, on breach of condition named in the mortgage. Such a
sale, it has been held, does not transfer to the purchaser the
franchise to be a corporation, but only the right to reorganize
as a corporation, subject to the laws, constitutional and otherwise, existing at the time of the reorganization. Memphis &
Little Rock Railroad v. Railroad Commissioners, 112 U. S.
609. The franchise to be a corporation is distinguished from
the franchise to exercise as a corporation the banking powers
named in this charter. The exemption from taxation contained in the third section of the act of 1856 was a personal
privilege in favor of the corporation therein specifically referred
to, and it did not pass with the sale of that charter, and there
is no express or clear intention of the law requiring that exenption to pass as a continuing franchise to the purchaser
thereof. .Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Wilson v.
Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; Louisville & NaXaskville Railroad Co.
v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244. In the face of the constitutional
provision prohibiting exemption, it can still less be claimed that
the sale of the charter carried the exemption. All that Mr.
Taylor and his associates could have acquired by the purchase
of the charter, after the adoption of the constitution of 1870,
if they acquired anything, were the rights and privileges mentioned in the charter, and subject to the provisions of the constitution and laws existing at the time of such purchase.
The meeting of Julius A. Taylor and his eight associates on
the 5th of March, 1881, was nothing more than an attempt to
reorganize by reason of the sale to Taylor under the decree
in the Lanier suit. Immediately prior to the organization of
that meeting, Taylor and his associates had subscribed for and
agreed to take stock in the Gayoso Savings Institution of
Memphis, Tennessee, to the amount set opposite their respective names, and to pay the same in such manner as might be
ordered by the board of directors, having that day paid in the
sum of one dollar on each share. -These subscribers for stock
at once held a meeting, assuming to act as stockholders of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Gayoso Savings Institution, and attempting to reorganize that
institution by virtue of the purchase of the original charter,
and they assumed by tthese proceedings to become an organ.ization and corporation known as the Gayoso Savings Institution. It is, at least, very doubtful whethe'r they succeeded
in this way in accomplishing that purpose. However that
may be, they claimed to be and assumed to act as a corporation known *by that name, and there was, so far as appears,
no other corporation of that name and no other proceeding
on the part of any one claiming to be that corporation or to
have any rights therein. Assuming to act as a corporation
by the name of the Gayoso Savings Institution of Memphis,
Tennessee, is by no means the same as being in fact the original
corporation whose charter they purchased and whose corporate name they took. So far, by their action they had not
become a corporation at all, but were simply assuming to be
one. The legislature, however, passed an act on the 26th of
March, 1881, changing the name of the Gayoso Savings Institution, which these stockholders claimed and assumed to be, to
the name of the Mercantile Bank of Memphis, and thus recognized them as a corporation, and from that time the corporation continued regularly and without intermission until 1883,
when Taylor and his associates transferred their stock, by
regular and proper transfer of the certificates of stock, to
John R. Godwin and his associates, who, since the 17th of
April, 1833, have been doing a regular banking business under
the charter down to the present time. They are the successors of the purchasers of the charter, and have been substantially recognized as a corporation by the legislature.
It may thus be that the corporation plaintiff in error is in
fact organized and doing business under the general provisions of the charter of 1856 by virtue of the sale of the charter and the recognition of the legislature, and exercising the
banking franchise and other rights granted therein to the
.original shareholders, but not as the identical corporation
originally incorporated, and for that reason it is without the
immunity from taxation contained in the third section of the
charter. There is nothing, therefore, legally inconsistent in

MERCANTILE BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

treating the corporation of plaintiff in error as a corporation
doing business by virtue of the charter of 1856, and the legislative recognition accorded to Taylor and his associates in
1881, while at the same time the exemption contained in that
same charter is held not to have passed by any of the proceedings above mentioned. This view of the case disposes of
the objection taken by plaintiff in error to the position of the
State as being inconsistent in that it assumes by taxing the
corporation plaintiff in error or its shareholders and by its
bill of complaint in this suit to treat the former as a corporation, while at the same time denying it the exemption contained in the third section of the act of 1856. We agree that
the bill of complaint and the supplemental bill in this suit
both proceed upon an implication that the corporation plaintiff in error is actually a corporation under the provisions of
the charter of 1856 alone, and that it has no other charter
under which to justify its corporate existence than the one
just named; but for the reasons already given, the attitude
of the State is not inconsistent in treating the plaintiff in
error as a corporation, and at the same time denying to it any
title to the exemption claimed. The corporation may exist
under and by virtue of the purchase of the charter at the
receiver's sale, and the legislative recognition and the assumption of the State that it is a corporation, and yet not have
the title to the exemption, because it is not in fact or in law
the same corporation originally incorporated.
The judgment must be
-

Affirmed.
MRB. JusTIcE WHrrE concurred in the result.

MERCANTILE B'ANK v.

TENNESSEE AND

SHELBY COUNTY,

677, by stipulation, abides the event of the foregoing case.

No.

