LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JusTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim presented in this case to the Supreme Court of
the State of North Carolina differs somewhat from that relied
on ifi that court in the case of fermann 1R. Baltzer v. The
State of North Carolina, No. 93. of the docket of this court.
The question of the power in the state court to give the relief
prayed for was by it decided adversely to the plaintiffs in
error upon grounds identical with those considered by us in
the case just decided. Our reasons for affirmance there expressed are conclusive of the issues here, and consequently the

judgment is
Affirmed.

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 129. Argued December 18, 19, 1895. -Decided

March 2, 1898.

ndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, affirmed to the point that the duty of determining unsettled questions respecting title to real estate is local in its
nature, to be discharged in such mode as may be provided by the State
in which the land is situated, when such mode does not conflict with
some special prohibition of the Constitution, or is not against natural
justice.
Applying that doctrine to this case it is held that the decree In the equity
cause of .Pippertv. English was not void for want of personal service on
English and his wife, as the laws relating to the District of Columbia
permit service by publication upon absent defendants.
And further, as the evidence shows that Pippert had no knowledge of the
attempt by Mrs. English to incumber the land In question by a deed of
trust, the recording of the instrument did not give him constructive
notice of it, as the formalities required by law to authorize the recording were not complied with.
That deed of trust was inoperative as a legal instrument.
There being no actual notice, and the recording of the defective deed not
operating as construdtive notice, the alleged equitable lien is wholly Inoperative against those holding under the decree below.

TiE complainant below was Christeina Murphy, who sued

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in her own right and as executrix and trustee under the will
of Peter Pippert, her deceased father. By her bill, complainant sought the cancellation of a deed of trust upon certain
land in the city of Washington, devised by her father to complainant and to two of the defendants named in the bill, or,
in the alternative, the reinstatement of a deed of trust for the
benefit of said Pippert which had been cancelled by a judicial
decree as hereinafter stated. The deed of trust attacked by
the bill purported to have been executed in August, 1874, by
Elizabeth English, to one Bean, to secure payment of four
notes for $1000 each, payable te the order of James Lynch.
It was averred, in substance, that at the time of the execution
of the deed of trust the legal title to the land was in Elizabeth
English and Andrew Schwartz, Sr., by virtue of a conveyance
from -ippert, made July 27, 1874, and the land which it embraced was incumbered by a deed of trust to Pippert given to
secure the unpaid purchase money, $10,390.42. It was also
alleged that the deed from Pippert to English and Schwartz
was annulled by a decree of the Supreme Court of the District
of C61umbia, in a suit instituted by Pippert to cancel his conveyance on the ground of alleged fraud practised upon him in
the transaction. At the time of the institution of said suit
the Bean deed of trust had been placed by Mrs. English on her
three-fourth interest in the property, bought by herself and
Schwartz from Pippert, and it was on the land records of
the District of Columbia. Neither Lynch nor his trustee Bean
were made parties to the suit.
Relief was sought as to the Bean deed of trust upon the
ground that it was executed on behalf of Mrs. English by her,
husband, who had no proper or competent authority in law
to execute the same; and it was urged at the trial, among
other objections, that the power of attorney under which
'English assumed To execute the deed of trust was defective
and was not entitled to record, because of the absence therefrom of a certificate of the official character of the officer
before whom, in Michigan, Mrs. English acknowledged the
instrument. It was further urged in the bill as ground of relief that the notes to Lynch were made without consideration,

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Statement of the Case.

and that the transaction was part and parcel of a scheme by
which English attempted to defraud Pippert, as alleged in the
suit of Pippert hereinbefore referred to,-and that the defendant Jane Lynch, claiming to be the owner of the notes secured
by said deed of trust, and the heirs at law of Bean, the deceased trustee, were threatening to enforce the deed of trust
by advertising the premises for sale thereunder.
The controversy in this court being confined to the question
of the validity of the apparent deed of trust to Bean, numerous allegations contained in the bill are unnecessary to be referred to.
Of the pleadings filed on behalf of the various defendants
only that of Jane Lynch requires notice. In her answer she
set up her ownership of the notes referred to in the Bean deed
of trust, claiming that she received them from her husband
on the day the notes bore date. She denied any knowledge
of the suit to cancel Pippert's conveyance to Mrs. English and
Schwartz, and averred that she had no knowledge of the decree in Pippert's suit until very recently, and further averred
that her deceased husband parted with full consideration for
the notes, and that the transaction was not fraudulent.
While averring that English did have proper and competent
authority in law to execute the said deed of trust as the agent
of his wife, Mrs. Lynch coupled such averment with the claim
that the property purchased from Pippert was in fact paid for
by the money of Alexander English, who kept his property
in his wife's name so as to be out of the reach of his creditors,
and that said English was the real principal, and in giving
the deed of trust for the benefit of Lynch he was pledging
his own property, though in the name of his wife, for a debt
due by him and for which he received .the consideration. We
quote the following statements in the answer:
"Defendant further says that she is advised and believes,
and, therefore, charges, that while the said deed of trust is
not technically sufficient in law to constitute a valid deed of
trust, yet that it was on the part of said English a pledge of
property of which he was the real and equitable owner for a
just debt which he owed the said James Lynch, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

said deed of trust constitutes an equitable mortgage upon the
said premises which this defendant has the right to have enforced, and that the said Peter Pippert had notice thereof in
his lifetime and before the filing of the suit by him hereinbefore referred to; that the complainant herein is not a purchaser thereof, but a mere volunteer, having taken the
property as a gift and without paying any value therefor
and with full notice of this defendant's claim, and this defendant says that complainant took the land subject to all the
equities of this defendant and all other persons whomsoever.
Defendant says that the said notes have never been paid,
and that it is true that she threatened to enforce the said
trust by a sale of said real estate because of the non-payment
thereof."
After.the cause was at issue, a decree was entered by consent of all parties, appointing a trustee to make sale and
ordering a sale of the property affected by the bill. The
following provision is contained therein:
"And whereas the said Jane Lynch, in consideration of the
provision hereinafter made, is willing to consent to the decree
of sale, now it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that
said John C. Heald, immediately upon the completion of such
sale, shall pay into the registry of this court the sum of eight
thousand dollars of the proceeds of said sale, and that the same
shall be invested and reinvested under the direction of the court
and held until the final determination of this cause in the
court of last resort, and that said sum of eight thousand dollars
and the notes, securities or property in which the same shall
from time to time be invested and the increase thereof as to
all parties interested in said real estate shall stand in the place
and stead of said real estate, and that if in this proceeding it
shall ultimately be decided that the defendant Jane Lynch
had a valid lien upon said real estate at the time the bill in
this case was filed for the sum of four thousand dollars, with
interest as aforesaid, or only part thereof, then said sum of
eight thousand dollars and the increase thereof, or so much
thereof as shall be necessary, shall be applied for the satisfaction of such lien."

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

A sale of the property was had and the fund representing
the Lynch claim was paid into the registry of the court.
After the taking of testimony the cause came on for hearing, and, on May 13, 1891, the court at special term entered
a decree adjudging the deed of trust to Bean to be null and
void; that the fund in the registry of the court belonged to
the estate of Peter Pippert, and under his will passed to the
complainant and the defendants Edward Marsh and Florence
Marsh. On the appeal of Jane Lynch, the general term, on
May 31, 1892, affirmed the judgment of the special term.
Thereupon Mrs. Lynch took an appeal to this court.
Mr. William G. Johnson and Mr. Calderon Carlisle for
appellant.
--Mr. A. S. TWorthington, (with whom was Mr.J. C. Heald
on the brief,) for Murphy, appellee.
Mr. Henry E. -Davi8for Edward Marsh and Florence Marsh,
appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE WmTE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question for our determination is whether or not appellant had a valid lien, legal or equitable, upon the real estate in
question at the time the bill of complaint was filed.
We will premise that the decree in the equity cause of
Pippert v. English et als. was not void because English and
his wife were not personally served with process. Constructive service by publication was authorized by § 787 of the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia. Hart
v. Sansom, 110 U. S. 151, relied upon as supporting the'proposition that the rights of Mr. and Mrs. English in the land
could not be effected by such constructive notice, and that
the decree rendered thereon was not entitled to recognition in
a Federal court, does not support the contention. The Hart
case was explained in Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

which last case it was held that the duty of determining unsettled questions respecting the title to real estate was local
in its nature, to be discharged in such mode as might be provided by the State in which the land was situated, where such
mode did not conflict with some special inhibition of the Constitution and was not against natural justice; and we held
(pp. 327-328) that nothing inconsistent with this doctrine
was decided in Hart v. 8ansom.
From the evidence contained in the record, we are satisfied
that when Pippert instituted the action to annul his conveyance to Mrs. English and Andrew Schwartz, Sr., he did not
have actual knowledge that Mrs. English or any one claiming
to represent her had incumbered or attempted to incumber
the land. The question then presents itself: Was the record
of the alleged deed of trust to Bean constructive notice to
Pippert? We are relieved from extended discussion in answering this question by the admissions made in the answer
of defendant Lynch and in the brief of her counsel.
In the bill of complaint it is charged that Alexander English was without any proper or competent authority in law to
execute said deed of trust. This refers to the authority of
English to execute the deed of trust, as the attorney of his
wife. This allegation is admitted by the answer, for while
it is averred therein, "upon information and belief, that said
Alexander English did have proper and competent authority
in law to execute the trust to said William W. Bean," it proceeds to aver in connection with this allegation that "the true
facts in relation thereto" were, in substance, that the payment
made by. English when the property was purchased from Pippert was made with money belonging to English personally,
that he had personally received the benefit of the consideration from Lynch, and that the said deed of trust, "while not
technically sufficient in law to constitute a valid deed of trust,
.

.

.

was on the part of said English a pledge of property

of which he was the real and equitable owner for a just debt
which he owed to said James Lynch, and that the said deed
of trust constitutes an equitable mortgage upon the said
premises which this defendant has the right to have enforced."

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

In the brief of counsel for appellant the matter is thus
stated: "The only remaining objection to the Lynch trust
is the defective character of the instrument. It is admitted
in the answer that the instrument is inartificially drawn and
as a mortgage is technically defective." And the argument
then proceeds to maintain that the evidence- clearly established a good equitable mortgage in favor of appellant.
In the face of these concessions it becomes unnecessary to
determine what were the particular defects rendering the
writing in question legally invalid.
Having concluded that the deed of trust was inoperative as
a legal instrument, we recur to the question whether or not
its spreading upon the land records of the District constituted
constructive notice. As said by Pomeroy in § 652 of his work
on Equity Jurisprudence:
"The record does not operate as a constructive notice, unless the instrument is duly executed, and properly acknowledged or proved, so as to entitle it to be recorded. The
statutes generally require, as a condition to registration, that
the instrument should be legally executed, and that it should
be formally acknowledged or proved, and a certificate thereof
annexed. If a writing should be placed upon the records with
any of these preliminaries entirely omitted or defectively performed, such a record would be a mere voluntary act, and
would have no effect- upon the rights of subsequent purchasers
or incumbrancers."
Story (Eq. Jur. 13th ed. § 404) states the doctrine thus:
"The doctrine as to the registration of deeds being constructive notice as to all subsequent purchasers, is not to be
understood of all deeds and conveyances which may be de
,facto registered, but of such only -as are authorized and required by law to be registered, and are duly registered in compliance with law. If they are not authorized or required to
be registered, or the registry itself is not in compliance with
the law, the act of registration is treated as a mere nullity;
and then the subsequent purchaser is affected only by such
actual notice as would amount to a fraud."
It follows that the recording of the instrument under con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration was a mere nullity in a jurisdiction such as the
District of Columbia, (Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. § 440,) where particular formalities are required to authorize the recording. To
the cases referred to by the authors first cited may be added
Doh v. Haskin, 88 M[ichigan, 144, and .Musgrove v. Bonser,
5 Oregon, 313, 315-316, the defect in the recorded instrument,
in both cases, being the absence of a certificate as to the bfficial character of the officer before whom a deed was acknowledged. See, also, 3 Washburn Real Prop. * 592; Wade,
Notice, %8124, 125, 126.
The effect of the decree in Pippert's suit, annulling his conveyance to Schwartz and English, was that Pippert, as the
consideration of such cancellation, surrendered the benefit of
his vendor's lien and the security of the deed of trust. When
this result was accomplished the unpaid purchase money
amounted to $10,390.42, and was in fact but $500 less than
the entire consideration for the sale, and practically represented the full value of the property. By the reconveyance
to him, under the decree, Pippert stood in the position of
a bona flde purchaser of the property for value; and, as we
have found he did not have actual or constructive notice of
the real or supposed equity of Mrs. Lynch, there would seem
to be no ground upon which to base the claim that at the
time of the institution of this suit Mrs. Lynch had an equitable mortgage or lien upon the property. Let us assume, for
the sake of the argument, that, as claimed by counsel for the
appellant, Alexander English should be regarded in equity as
having been the real owner of the property at the time of the
transaction with Lynch, though the legal title was in his wife;
that Lynch paid to English full consideration for the cash paid
and notes delivered by English, and that Lynch accepted the
notes on the faith 'of the security of the property in question.
As against English it is clear, under the authorities, that from
the nature of the transaction, upon the hypothesis we have
stated, a lien would have arisen in equity against English's
interest in the land. ' Jones on Mortgages, § 162, 163, 166, 168,
169 ; Story Eq. Jur. § 1020, 1231 ; Peckham v. Haddock, 36
Illinois, 38; IcOlurg v. PillU]ps, 49 Missouri, 315; Gale v.

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

-Morris,29 N. J. Eq. 222, 224. But a bona fi
purchaser for
value of property, subject to an equitable mortgage, without
notice of such mortgage, takes the property free of the equitable mortgage. Jones on Mortgages, § 162, p. 139, citing
Watkins v. Reynolds, 123 N. Y. 211. Vatkins v. Reynolds
was a case where a cestui quo trust for life executed a mortgage in fee on the trust estate, and, after her death, the remainderman in fee executed, under seal, an unattested paper
covenanting for sufficient consideration that the mortgage
should continue to be a lien on the land. Afterwards he
sold and conveyed to another, who paid a sum in cash, and
contracted to assume certain mortgages and pay certain debts
,of the vendor to third persons; equal in amount to the remainder of the purchase price. The cash payment and part
of these debts were made before the purchaser had actual
notice of the agreement to continue the mortgage lien. Upon
this state of fact the court, speaking through Peckham, J.,
held that since the purchaser's agreements were made before
notice, and remained in full force after notice, there was no
equitable lien against the property in favor of the mortgagee
for the purchase money unpaid at the time of such notice.
That notice to Pippert, actual or constructive, was an element essential to the survival of the lien as against Pippert,
is admitted in the answer of Mrs. Lynch, expressed by the
averment that Pippert had notice of the existence of the supposed deed of trust. As that allegation was not established
by the evidence, but the contrary was proven, it follows that
the claim of a lien or a mortgage upon the property in favor
of Mrs. Lynch has not been made out. And this conclusion
inevitably results from the following additional considerations.
Pippert instituted and prosecuted his suit for cancellation
of his conveyance against all persons known to him as claiming an interest in or incumbrance on the property. He did
what the law required, in order to make his judgment binding
upon all the world, and when the court divested Mrs. English
of all her interest in the property, appellant's alleged rights,
acquired through her, not having been legally recorded before
judgment, were divested by the decree. as effectually as if ap-

