UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA

Decree

UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA
ON JOINT MOTION FOR ENTRY OF A DECREE

No. 52, Orig. Decided March 17, 1975--Decree entered
May 24, 1976
Joint motion for the entry of a decree is granted, and a decree is
entered.

Opinion reported: 420 U. S. 531.

DECREE
The joint motion for entry of a decree is granted.
For the purpose of giving effect to the decision and
opinion of this Court announced in this case on
March 17, 1975, 420 U. S. 531, and to the Supplemental
Report of the Special Master filed January 26, 1976, it
is ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED AS FOLLOWS:

1. As against the State of Florida, the United States
is entitled to all the lands, minerals, and other natural resources underlying the Atlantic Ocean more than 3 geographic miles seaward from the coastline of that State
and extending seaward to the edge of the Continental
Shelf, and the State of Florida is not entitled to any interest in such lands, minerals, and resources. As used in
this decree, the term "coastline" means the line of ordinary low water along that portion of the coast which is in
direct contact with the open sea and the line marking the
seaward limit of inland waters, as determined under the
Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous
Zone, 15 U. S. T. (Pt. 2) 1606.
2. As against the United States, the State of Florida
is entitled to all the lands, minerals, and other natural
resources underlying the Atlantic Ocean extending seaward from its coastline for a distance of 3 geographic
miles, and the United States is not entitled, as against

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Decree

425 U. S.

the State of Florida, to any interest in such lands, minerals, or resources, with the exceptions provided by Section 5 of the Submerged Lands Act, 43 U. S. C. ยง 1313.
3. As against the State of Florida, the United States is
entitled to all the lands, minerals and other natural resources underlying the Gulf of Mexico more than 3 marine leagues from the coastline of that State; the State of
Florida is not entitled to any interest in such lands, minerals, and resources. Where the historic coastline of the
State of Florida is landward of its coastline, the United
States is additionally entitled, as against the State of
Florida, to all the lands, minerals, and other natural resources underlying the Gulf of Mexico more than 3
marine leagues from the State's historic coastline (but
not less than 3 geographic miles from its coastline), and
the State of Florida is not entitled to any interest in such
lands, minerals, and resources. As used in this decree,
the term "historic coastline" refers to the coastline as it
existed in 1868, as to be determined by the parties.
4. As against the United States, the State of Florida is
entitled to all the lands, minerals, and other natural
resources underlying the Gulf of Mexico extending seaward for a distance of 3 marine leagues from its coastline
or its historic coastline, whichever is landward, but for
not less than 3 geographic miles from its coastline; the
United States is not entitled, as against the State of
Florida, to any interest in such lands, minerals, or resources, with the exceptions provided by Section 5 of the
Submerged Lands Act, 43 U. S. C. ยง 1313.
5. For the purpose of this decree, the Gulf of Mexico
lies to the north and west, and the Atlantic Ocean to
the south and east, of a line that begins at a point on the
northern coast of the island of Cuba in 830 west longitude, and extends thence to the northward along that
meridian of longitude to 24'35 ' north latitude, thence
eastward along that parallel of latitude through Rebecca

UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA
791

Decree

Shoal and the Quicksands Shoal to the Marquesas Keys,
and thence through the Florida Keys to the mainland at
the eastern end of Florida Bay, the line so running that
the narrow waters within the Dry Tortugas Islands, the
Marquesas Keys, and the Florida Keys, and between the
Florida Keys and the mainland, are within the Gulf of
Mexico.
6. There is no historic bay on the coast of the State
of Florida. There are no inland waters within Florida
Bay, or within the Dry Tortugas Islands, the Marquesas
Keys, and the lower Florida Keys (from Money Key to
Key West), the closing lines of which affect the right
of either the United States or the State of Florida under
this decree.
7. Jurisdiction is reserved by this Court to entertain
such further proceedings, enter such orders and issue such
writs as may from time to time be deemed necessary or
advisable to give proper force and effect to this decree.

