OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Syllabus

425 U. S.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE ET AL. V.
FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED. STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

No. 74-1608.

Argued February 25, 1976-Decided May 19, 1976*

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
and various other organizations petitioned the Fcderal Power
Commission (FPC) to issue a rule "requiring equal employment
opportunity and nondiscrimination in the employment practices
of its regulatees." The FPC refused, holding that it had no
Jurisdiction to issue such a rule. On petition for review, the
Court of Appeals, while agreeing that the FPC lacked power to
prescribe personnel practices in detail and act upon personnel
complaints, held that the FPC does have "power to take into
account, in the performance of its regulatory functions, including
licensing and rate review, evidence that the regulatee is a demonstrated discriminator in its employment relations." Held:
1. The FPC is authorized to consider the consequences of discriminatory employment practices on the part of its regulatees
only insofar as such consequences are directly related to the FPC's
establishment of just and reasonable rates in the public interest.
To the extent that illegal, duplicative, or unnecessary labor costs
are demonstrably the product of a regulatee's discriminatory employment practices and can be or have been demonstrably quantified by judicial decree or the final action of an administrative
agency the FPC should disallow them. Pp. 666-669.
2. The FPC's asserted duty to advance the public interest,
however, does not afford any basis for its prohibiting regulatees
from engaging in discriminatory employment practices, as references to the "public interest" in the Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act require the FPC to promote the orderly production
of plentiful supplies of electric energy and natural gas at just
*Together with No. 74-1619, Federal Power Commission v. National Association for the Advancement of Colored People et al.,
also on certiorari to the same court.

NAACP v. FPC
662

Opinion of the Court

and reasonable rates, and do not constitute a directive to the
FPC to seek to eradicate discrimination. Pp. 669-671.
172 U. S. App. D. C. 32, 520 F. 2d 432, affirmed.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BRENNAN,

WHITE, BLACKMUN,

POWELL,

REHNQUIST,

and

STEVENS,

JJ.,

J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 671. BURGER, C. J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 672.
MARSHALL, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the
cases.
joined.

POWELL,

Howard A. Glickstein argued the cause for petitioners
in No. 74-1608 and for respondents in No. 74-1619.
With him on the brief were William L. Taylor and
Reuben B. Robertson III.

Drexel D. Journey argued the cause for respondent in
No. 74-1608 and for petitioner in No. 74-1619. With
him on the briefs were Robert W. Perdue and Allan

Abbot Tuttle.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

The issue in this case is to what extent, if any, the

Federal Power Commission, in the performance of its
functions under the Federal Power Act, 41 Stat. 1063,

as amended, 16 U. S. C. § 791a et seq. (Power Act), and
the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 821, as amended, 15
U.

S. C. § 717 et seq.

(Gas Act),

has authority to

prohibit discriminatory employment practices on the part
of its regulatees.
fSolicitor General Bork, Assistant Attorney General Pottinger,and
Abner W. Sibal filed a memorandum for the United States et al. as
amici curiae urging affirmance in both cases.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed in both cases by Jerome J. McGrath and Melvin Richter for the Interstate Natural Gas Association
of America; by Cameron F. MacRae, Charles P. Sifton, and John A.
Rudy for the Edison Electric Institute; and by the National Black
Media Coalition et al.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

I
In 1972 the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People (NAACP) and several other organizations petitioned the Commission to issue a rule "requiring equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination in the employment practices of its regulatees." The
proposed rule would have required the regulated companies to adopt affirmative action programs to combat
discrimination in employment and would have given any
person who believed himself to have been subjected to
employment discrimination by any such company the
right to file a complaint with the Commission.1
The Commission refused to adopt the proposed rule,
holding that it had no jurisdiction to do so because "the
purposes of the Natural Gas and Federal Power Acts
are economic regulation of entrepreneurs engaged in resource developments. So considered, we do not find the
necessary nexus between those aspects of our economic
regulatory activities and the employment procedures of
the utility systems which we regulate, as would justify
[adopting petitioners' proposed rule]." 48 F. P. C.
40, 44.
On petition for review, the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit agreed that the Commission
was without "power ... to prescribe personnel practices
in detail and to receive complaints, adjudicate them, and
punish directly infractions of those practices." 172 U. S.
App. D. C. 32, 35, 520 F. 2d 432, 435. The court held,
however, that the Commission does have "power to take
1 Under the proposed rule, a complaint that indicated a probable
violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 253,
as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e et seq., could be referred by the
Commission to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The proposed rule is reproduced in full as an appendix to the opinion of the Court of Appeals in this case. See 172 U. S. App. D. C.
32, 48, 520 F. 2d 432, 448.

NAACP v. FPC
662

Opinion of the Court

into account, in the performance of its regulatory functions, including licensing and rate review, evidence that
the regulatee is a demonstrated discriminator in its employment relations." Ibid.
Because of doubt as to the Commission's recognition
of any power on its part to take into account the employment practices of its regulatees even in the narrower
sense described above, the Court of Appeals vacated the
Commission's order and remanded the case. Id., at 47,
520 F. 2d, at 447. The Commission and the NAACP
each petitioned for certiorari, and we granted both petitions in order to consider the scope of the Commission's
authority to deal with discriminatory employment practices on the part of the companies that it regulates.
423 U. S. 890.
II
The question presented is not whether the elimination
of discrimination from our society is an important national goal. It clearly is. The question is not whether
Congress could authorize the Federal Power Commission
to combat such discrimination. It clearly could. The
question is simply whether or to what extent Congress
did grant the Commission such authority. Two possible
statutory bases have been advanced to justify the conclusion that the Commission can or must concern itself
with discriminatory employment practices on the part
of the companies it regulates.'
2 We deal here only with questions of statutory interpretation.
In the Court of Appeals and in its cross-petition for certiorari the
NAACP argued that the Commission has a duty under the Fifth
Amendment to prevent employment discrimination by its regulatees.
In its briefs on the merits, however, the NAACP notes that a de-

cision on this constitutional question is unnecessary if we hold,
as we do, that the Commission has statutory authority to consider
the consequences of employment discrimination in performing its
mandated regulatory functions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

The first of these statutory bases is the legislative
command to the Commission under the Power and Gas
Acts to establish "just and reasonable" rates for the
transmission and sale of electric energy, 16 U. S. C.
§ 824d (a), and for the transportation and sale of natural
gas, 15 U. S. C. § 717c (a), and, consequently, to allow
only such rates as will prevent consumers from being
charged any unnecessary or illegal costs.' The second
and broader statutory basis advanced for Commission
regulation of employment discrimination is the Commission's asserted duty to advance the public interest.
The NAACP notes that Congress found that "the business of transmitting and selling electric energy for ultimate distribution to the public is affected with a public
interest," 16 U. S. C. § 824 (a), and that "the business
of transporting and selling natural gas for ultimate distribution to the public is affected with a public interest,"
15 U. S. C. § 717 (a). From these and other references
to the "public interest" in the Gas and Power Acts,4
it is argued that the Commission is charged with advancing the public interest in general, and that the
Commission is thus authorized if not required to promulgate rules prohibiting its regulatees from engaging
in discriminatory employment practices, since ending discrimination in employment is in the public interest.
A
The Court of Appeals basically accepted the first of
these statutory arguments:
"The Commission's task in protecting the con3 See, e. g., Acker v. United States, 298 U. S. 426, 430-431; Cities
Serv. Gas Co. v. FPC, 424 F. 2d 411 (CA10); Safe Harbor Water
Power Corp. v. FPC, 179 F. 2d 179 (CA3). See also n. 5, infra.
ISee, e. g., 15 U. S. C. §§ 717b, 717f (a), 717n; 16 U. S. C.
§§797 (e), (g), 800 (a), 803 (i), 806, 815, 824a (a-c), (e), 824b
(a-b), 824c (a). See also 15 U. S.C. §§ 717f (b-c), (e).

NAACP v. FPC
662

Opinion of the Court

sumer against exploitation can be alternatively described as the task of seeing that no unnecessary or
illegitimate costs are passed along to that consumer.
Costs incurred by reason of a regulatee's choosing
to practice racial discrimination are within the reach
of that responsibility. Without attempting an exhaustive enumeration of such costs, we identify at
least the following as indicative of those arguably
within the Commission's range of concern: (1) duplicative labor costs incurred in the form of back pay
recoveries by employees who have proven that they
were discriminatorily denied employment or advancement, (2) the costs of losing valuable government contracts terminated because of employment
discrimination, (3) the costs of legal proceedings in
either of these two categories, (4) the costs of strikes,
demonstrations, and boycotts aimed against regulatees because of employment discrimination, (5) excessive labor costs incurred because of the elimination from the prospective labor force of those who
are discriminated against, and (6) the costs of inefficiency among minority employees demoralized
by discriminatory barriers to their fair treatment or
promotion.
"Obviously such costs of employment discrimination range from the very definite and easily ascertainable to the very questionable and virtually unquantifiable. The problem of how to see that they
are not borne by the consumer could arise in any
number of different regulatory contexts, including
both rate and certificate proceedings. We therefore
do not attempt to detail all the various ways the
Commission may thus 'regulate' employment discrimination, leaving this in the first instance to the
Commission itself." 172 U. S. App. D. C., at 44,
520 F. 2d, at 444 (footnote omitted).

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

Without necessarily endorsing the specific identification of the costs "arguably within" the Commission's
"range of concern," we agree with the basic conclusion
of the Court of Appeals on this branch of the case. The
Commission, clearly has the duty to prevent its regulatees
from charging rates based upon illegal, duplicative, or
unnecessary labor costs. To the extent that such costs
are demonstrably the product of a regulatee's discriminatory employment practices, the Commission should disallow them. For example, when a company complies
with a backpay award resulting from a finding of employment discrimination in violation of Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e et seq., it
pays twice for work that was performed only once. The
amount of the backpay award, therefore, can and should
be disallowed as an unnecessary cost in a ratemaking
proceeding.
To the extent that these and other similar costs, such
as attorneys' fees, can be or have been demonstrably
quantified by judicial decree or the final action of an
administrative agency charged with consideration of
such matters, the Commission clearly should treat these
costs as it treats any other illegal, unnecessary, or
duplicative costs, We were told by counsel during oral
argument that the Commission would routinely disallow
the costs of a backpay award resulting from an order
of the National Labor Relations Board or the decree
of a court based upon a finding of an unfair labor
practice. The governing principle is no different in the
area of discriminatory employment practices.
As a general proposition it is clear that the Commission has the discretion to decide whether to approach
these problems through the process of rulemaking, individual adjudication, or a combination of the two procedures. SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 202-203.
The present Commission practice, we are told, is to con-

NAACP v. FPC
662

Opinion of the Court

sider such questions only in individual ratemaking proceedings, under its detailed accounting procedures. Assuming that the Commission continues that practice, it
has ample authority to consider whatever evidence and
make whatever inquiries are necessary to determine
whether a regulatee has incurred unnecessary or illegitimate costs because of racially discriminatory employment
practices. 15 U. S. C. §§ 717c (e), 717m; 16 U. S. C.
§§ 824d (e), 824f.
B
The Court of Appeals rejected the broader argument
based upon the statutory criterion of "public interest,"
and we hold that it was correct in doing so. This
Court's cases have consistently held that the use of the
words "public interest" in a regulatory statute is not a
broad license to promote the general public welfare.
Rather, the words take meaning from the purposes of the
regulatory legislation.
For example, in the case of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, which is responsible for enforcing an Act
"designed ... to assure adequacy in transportation service," "the term 'public interest' . . . is not a concept
without ascertainable criteria, but has direct relation to
adequacy of transportation service, to its essential conditions of economy and efficiency, and to appropriate provision and best use of transportation facilities . .. ."
New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287
U. S. 12, 24-25. See also New Haven Inclusion Cases,
399 U. S. 392, 432; National Broadcasting Co. v. United
States, 319 U. S. 190, 216; Federal Radio Comm'n v.
Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285.
Thus, in order to give content and meaning to the
words "public interest" as used in the Power and Gas
Acts, it is necessary to look to the purposes for which
the Acts were adopted. In the case of the Power and
Gas Acts it is clear that the principal purpose of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

Acts was to encourage the orderly development of plentiful supplies of electricity and natural gas at reasonable
prices. While there are undoubtedly other subsidiary
purposes contained in these Acts,' the parties point to
nothing in the Acts or their legislative histories to indicate that the elimination of employment discrimination
was one of the purposes that Congress had in mind when
it enacted this legislation. The use of the words "public
interest" in the Gas and Power Acts is not a directive
to the Commission to seek to eradicate discrimination,
but, rather, is a charge to promote the orderly production of plentiful supplies of electric energy and natural
gas at just and reasonable rates.
16 U. S. C. § 824a (a) (The purpose of the Power Act is to
"assur[e] an abundant supply of electric energy throughout the
United States with the greatest possible economy"); Pennsylvania
Power Co. v. FPC, 343 U. S. 414, 418 ("A major purpose of the
[Power] Act is to protect power consumers against excessive
prices"); FPC v. Hope Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 610 (The
"primary aim" of the Natural Gas Act is "to protect consumers
against exploitation at the hands of natural gas companies"). See
also S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 17; FPC v. Tennessee
Gas Co., 371 U. S. 145, 154; Atlantic Rfg. Co. v. Public Serv.
Comm'n, 360 U. S. 378, 388; Permian Basin Area Rate Cases, 390
U. S. 747, 770.
6 For example, the Commission has authority to consider conservation, environmental, and antitrust questions. See 15 U. S. C.
§ 717s (a); 16 U. S. C. §§ 803 (a), (h) ; Gulf States Utilities Co. v.
FPC, 411 U. S. 747; Udall v. FPC, 387 U. S. 428.
7 The Federal Communications Commission has adopted regulations dealing with the employment praetices of its regulatees. See
47 CFR §§ 73.125, 73.301, 73.599, 73.680, 73.793 (1975). These regulations can be justified as necessary to enable the FCC to satisfy its
obligation under the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, as
amended, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., to ensure that its licensees' programming fairly reflects the tastes and viewpoints of minority groups.
See Office of Communication of United Church of Christ v. FCC,
123 U. S. App. D. C. 328, 359 F. 2d 994; 33 Fed. Reg. 9960, 9962.
It has nowhere been argued that the Federal Power Commission

NAACP v. FPC
662

POWELL, J., concurring

It is useful again to draw on the analogy of federal
labor law. No less than in the federal legislation defining the national interest in ending employment discrimination, Congress in its earlier labor legislation unmistakably defined the national interest in free collective
bargaining. Yet it could hardly be supposed that in
directing the Federal Power Commission to be guided by
the "public interest," Congress thereby instructed it to
take original jurisdiction over the processing of charges
of unfair labor practices on the part of its regulatees.
We agree, in short, with the Court of Appeals that the
Federal Power Commission is authorized to consider the
consequences of discriminatory employment practices on
the part of its regulatees only insofar as such consequences are directly related to the Commission's establishment of just and reasonable rates in the public
interest. Accordingly, we affirm the judgment before us.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL, concurring.

Although I join in the opinion of the Court, I write
briefly to emphasize a point that seems important.
The Court quotes a portion of the opinion of the Court
of Appeals that identifies six categories of "costs" said
to be "arguably within the Commission's range of concern." Ante, at 667. The Court of Appeals correctly
noted, however, that these costs "range from the very
definite and easily ascertainable to the very questionable
and virtually unquantifiable." Ibid.
needs similar regulations in order to promote energy production at
reasonable rates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
BURGER,

C. J., concurring in judgment

425 U. S.

The Court's opinion explicitly does not endorse all of
these categories of costs, and requires that consideration
be given only to costs that have been "demonstrably
quantified by judicial decree or the final action of an
administrative agency charged with consideration of
such matters . . . ." Ante, at 668. Although implicit in
what the Court says, I think it important to emphasize
that the costs identified in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals as categories (4), (5), and (6) could not be
quantified without resort to wholly speculative assumptions that would be unacceptable for ratemaking purposes. It would be quite impossible, for example, to
measure or determine with any exactitude "the costs of
inefficiency among minority employees demoralized by
discriminatory barriers to their fair treatment or promotion." Nor is it likely that "the costs of strikes, demonstrations, and boycotts aimed against [a utility] because of employment discrimination," ante, at 667, could
ever be determined with sufficient reliability.
In view of the inherently amorphous nature of these
categories of costs, it would not be in the public interest
to allow intervenors to delay the orderly progress of
rate proceedings in the vain hope that such costs might,
after protracted litigation, be quantified. I do not read
the Court's opinion as requiring any such encumbering
of the Commission's prescribed statutory authority and
discretion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER, concurring in the
judgment.
I join the judgment of the Court even though I find
it difficult to understand why the result reached by the
Commission was not a reasonable administrative determination. The Court of Appeals read the Commission's
order in this case as "ambiguous":
"We do not know whether its order asserted a lack

NAACP v. FPC
662

BURGER,

C. J., concurring in judgment

of jurisdiction to adopt (1) the specific proposed
rule, or (2) any rule relating to employment discrimination by regulatees." 172 U. S. App. D. C.
32, 34, 520 F. 2d 432, 434 (emphasis in original).
In context, the FPC's order could fairly have been read
simply as rejecting the rule proposed by the NAACP.
This is particularly true in view of the Commission's
auditing practice of disallowing duplicative costs, including those occasioned by backpay awards. Ante,
at 668.
In contrast to this standard administrative practice,
the rule proposed to the Commission called for extensive
regulation of the employment practices of industries subject to FPC jurisdiction. Under the proposed rule, the
Commission would, among other things, be required to:
(a) enumerate unlawful employment practices; (b) require regulatees to establish a written program for equal
employment opportunity which would be filed with the
Commission; and (c) provide for individual employees
to file discrimination complaints directly with the
Commission.
The Court of Appeals correctly recognized that this
far-reaching proposal would put the Federal Power Commission into the business of regulating the everyday employment practices of regulated industries. The necessary result of this intrusion would be the imposition of
another layer of federal regulation of the same subject
matter, with the inevitable potential for conflict beIf Congress had
tween administrative agencies.*
*A former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury has observed:
"The proliferation of government controls
led to internal conflicts. In some cases, the
work at cross-purposes with each other ....
frequent are the contradictions between the

has, perhaps inevitably,
rules of a given agency
More serious and more
rulings of two or more

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
BURGER, C. J.,

concurring in judgment

425 U. S.

mandated duplicative regulation, the result, however
inefficient, would be none of our concern. But Congress
did not do so. It centralized responsibility in the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. To the extent
that the judiciary orders administrative responsibility to
be diffused, congressional intent is frustrated, regulated industries are subjected to the commands of different voices
in the bureaucracy, and the agonizingly long administrative process grinds even more slowly. To suggest, for
example, that the FPC could deny a license on account of
a regulatee's discriminatory employment practices, 172
U. S. App. D. C., at 44, 520 F. 2d, at 444, is to thrust the
Commission into a complex, volatile area for which Congress has already assigned authority to the EEOC.
No reason whatever exists to assume that Congress
intended to enmesh the FPC so deeply in the regulation
of employment practices. The Commission was thus
confronted with a duplicative and unprecedented proposal; it could appropriately refuse to adopt the rule as
beyond its jurisdiction; since the Court of Appeals concluded that the FPC was correct in this respect, the
Commission's order could appropriately have been
affirmed.

government agencies where the regulated have little recourse."
Weidenbaum, The New Wave of Government Regulation of Business, 15 Business and Society Review 81, 84 (1975).
See also U. S. News & World Report, May 10, 1976, p. 96. And as
Mr. Justice Douglas reminded us:
"The bureaucracy of modern government is not only slow, lumbering, and oppressive; it is omnipresent." Wyman v. James, 400
U. S.309, 335 (1971) (dissenting opinion).

