SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
Opinion of the Court

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 75-110.

Argued March 3, 1976-Decided April 20, 1976

Respondent's patent covering a water flush system to remove cow
manure from the floor of a dairy barn held invalid for obviousness,
it being a combination patent all the elements of which are old
in the dairy business and were well known before the filing of
the patent application. The system's exploitation of the principle
of gravity to effect the abrupt release of water "did not produce a
'new or different function' . . . within the test of validity of
combination patents." Anderson's-Black Rock v. Pavement Co.,
396 U. S. 57, 60. Pp. 274-283.
512 F. 2d 141, reversed.
BRENNAN,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Stephen B. Tatem, Jr., argued the cause for petitioner.

With him on the briefs was James F. Hulse.
J. Pierre Kolisch argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John W. Stuart.*
MR.

JUSTICE

BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent Ag Pro, Inc., filed this action against petitioner Sakraida on October 8, 1968, in the District Court
for the Western District of Texas for infringement of
United States Letters Patent 3,223,070, entitled "Dairy
*Mary Helen Sears filed a brief for the Texas Farmers Union as
amicus curiae urging reversal.
Helen W. Nies, Donald R. Dunner, and David N. Webster filed a
brief for the Bar Association of the District of Columbia as amicus
curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

Establishment," covering a water flush system to remove
cow manure from the floor of a dairy barn. The patent
was issued December 14, 1965, to Gribble and Bennett,
who later assigned it to respondent.
The District Court's initial grant of summary judgment for petitioner was reversed by the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit. 437 F. 2d 99 (1971). After a
trial on remand, the District Court again entered a judgment for petitioner. The District Court held that the
patent "does not constitute invention, is not patentable,
and is not a valid patent, it being a combination patent,
all of the elements of which are old in the dairy business,
long prior to 1963, and the combination of them as
described in the said patent being neither new nor meeting the test of non-obviousness." The Court of Appeals
again reversed and held the patent valid. 474 F. 2d 167
(1973). On rehearing, the court remanded "with directions to enter a judgment holding the patent valid, subject, however, to . . . consideration of a motion under

Rule 60 (b) (2), F. R. Civ. P., to be filed in the District
Court by the [petitioner] Sakraida on the issue of patent
validity based on newly discovered evidence." 481 F. 2d
668, 669 (1973). The District Court granted the motion
and ordered a new trial. The Court of Appeals again
reversed, holding that the grant of the motion was error,
because "the record on the motion establishes that [petitioner] failed to exercise due diligence to discover the
new evidence prior to entry of the former judgment."
512 F. 2d 141, 142 (1975). The Court of Appeals further held that "[o]ur prior determination of patent
validity is reaffirmed." Id., at 144. We granted certiorari. 423 U. S. 891 (1975). We hold that the Court of
Appeals erred in holding the patent valid and also in
reaffirming its determination of patent validity. We
therefore reverse and direct the reinstatement of the Dis-

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
273

Opinion of the Court

trict Court's judgment for petitioner, and thus we have
no occasion to decide whether the Court of Appeals properly found that petitioner had not established a case for
a new trial under Rule 60 (b) (2).

Systems using flowing water to clean animal wastes
from barn floors have been familiar on dairy farms since
ancient times.' The District Court found, and respondent concedes, that none of the 13 elements of the Dairy
Establishment combination is new,2 and many of those
1 Among

the labors of Hercules is the following:
"Heracles now set out to perform his fifth Labour, and this time
his task was to cleanse the stables of Augeas in a single day. Augeas
was a rich king of Ells, who had three thousand cattle. At night the
cattle always stood in a great court surrounded with walls, close to
the king's palace, and as it was quite ten years since the servants
had cleaned it out, there was enough refuse in the court to build
up a high mountain. Heracles went to Augeas and asked if he
would give him the tenth part of his flocks if he thoroughly cleansed
his stables in a single day. The king looked upon this as such an
absolutely impossible feat that he would not have minded promising
his kingdom as a reward for it, so he laughed and said, 'Set to work,
we shall not quarrel about the wages,' and he further promised distinctly to give Heracles what he asked, and this he did in the presence of Phyleus, his eldest son, who happened to be there. The next
morning Heracles set to work, but even his strong arms would have
failed to accomplish the task if they had not been aided by his
mother-wit. He compelled a mighty torrent to work for him, but
you would hardly guess how he did it. First he opened great gates
on two opposite sides of the court, and then he went to the stream,
and when he had blocked up its regular course with great stones, he
conducted it to the court that required to be cleansed, so that the
water streamed in at one end and streamed out at the other, carrying
away all the dirt with it. Before evening the stream had done its
work and was restored to its usual course." C. Witt, Classic Mythology 119-120 (1883).
2 The District Court found as follows respecting Claims 1 and 3,
the only claims involved in the ease:
"1. I find that the 'dairy establishment' as described in United

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

elements, including storage of the water in tanks or pools,
appear in at least six prior patented systems.
The prior
art involved spot delivery of water from tanks or pools
States Letters Patent 3,223,070 is composed of 13 separate items,
as follows:
"(a) '. . . a smooth, evenly contoured, paved surface forming
a floor providing a walking surface ... '
"(b) '. . . drain means for draining wash water from such floor
opening to the top of the floor.'
"(c) '. . . said smooth, evenly contoured surface which forms
such floor sloping toward said drain ... '
"(d) '. . . multiple rest areas with individual stalls for each cow
and with each of said stalls having a bottom which is also a smooth
pavement....'
"(e) '. . . which is disposed at an elevation above the paved
surface forming the floor. .. .'
"(f) '. . . said stalls being dimensioned so that a cow can comfortably stand or lie in the stall, but offal from the cow falls outside
the stall bottom and onto the floor providing the walking surface in
the barn..... .'
"(g) '. . . said barn further including defined feeding areas having
feeding troughs. .. .'
"(h) ... a cow-holding area.'
"(i) '... a milking area.'
"(j) '...
a transfer area all bottomed with the walking surface
forming said floor in the barn.... '
"(k) '. . . and floor washing means for washing the floor providing the walking surface in the barn where said floor bottom, said
feeding, holding, milking and transfer areas operable to send wash
water flowing over the floor with such water washing any cow offal
thereon into the said drain means, said floor washing means including means located over a region of said floor which is uphill from
said drain means constructed to collect water as a pool above said
floor and operable after such collection of water as a pool to dispense the water as a sheet of water over said floor.'
"(1) A tank on a mounting, so that it can be tilted, and the water
poured out to cascade on the floor to form a sheet.
"(m) A floor-washing means comprising a dam for damming or
collecting water as a pool directly on the floor, which such dam
[Footnote 3 is on p. 277]

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
273

Opinion of the Court

to the barn floor by means of high pressure hoses or
pipes. That system required supplemental hand labor,
using tractor blades, shovels, and brooms, and cleaning
by these methods took several hours. The only claimed
inventive feature of the Dairy Establishment combination of old elements is the provision for abrupt release
of the water from the tanks or pools directly onto the
barn floor, which causes the flow of a sheet of water that
washes all animal waste into drains within minutes and
requires no supplemental hand labor. As an expert witness for respondent testified concerning the effect of
Dairy Establishment's combination: "[W] ater at the bottom has more friction than this water on the top and it
keeps moving ahead and as this water keeps moving
ahead we get a rolling action of this water which produced the cleaning action ....
You do not get this in a
hose. .

.

.

[U]nless that water is continuously directed

toward the cleaning area the cleaning action almost
ceases instantaneously. . .
abruptly openable to send water cascading as a sheet over the floor
towards the drain.
"2. I further find that each of the items above-described were
not new, but had been used in the dairy business prior to the time
the application for the said Gribble patent, made the subject of
this action, had been filed in the Patent Office of the United States
on November 5, 1963."
3 The District Court found:
"[M]any of the items going to make up Plaintiff's claim for
a patent were disclosed in prior patents, known respectively as
the McCornack patent, the Holz patent, the Ingraham patent,
the Kreutzer patent, the Bogert patent, and the Luks patent;
and that the statements of the Examiner's opinions refusing to
issue a patent are true as to all items there stated to be covered
in prior patents or publications."
4 This witness further testified:
"[W]ater has energy and it can be used in many different ways. In
a hose the energy is used by impact, under pressure, external force

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

The District Court found that "[n]either the tank
which holds the water, nor the means of releasing the
water quickly is new, but embrace[s] tanks and doors
which have long been known," and further that "their
use in this connection is one that is obvious, and the
patent in that respect is lacking in novelty. The patent
does not meet the non-obvious requirements of the law."
The District Court therefore held that Dairy Establishment "may be relevant to commercial success, but not to
invention," because the combination "was reasonably obvious to one with ordinary skill in the art." Moreover,
even if the combination filled a "long-felt want and ...
has enjoyed commercial success, those matters, without
invention, will not make patentability." Finally, the
District Court concluded: "[T]o those skilled in the art,
the use of the old elements in combination was not an
invention by the obvious-nonobvious standard. Even
that is applied to this pressure-to this water, whereas the water
that comes down as a sheet or wall of water has built in energy
because of its elevation and as this water is released it does the
same thing water does in a flooded stream. As this water-I will
try to make this clear, and I hope I can, on the surface of this
pavement there are these piles of manure droppings. This pavement is smooth and this water moves down over this manure. The
water at the bottom has more friction than this water on the top
and it keeps moving ahead and as this water keeps moving ahead
we get a rolling action of this water which produced the cleaning
action. That is the key to this method of cleaning. You do not
get this in a hose. You do not get it in a gutter as has been used
in the past. I might just mention a little bit about the hose. This
squirting water on a floor-probably have done it on our own sidewalks or walkways, and I just mention that, that unless that water is
continuously directed towards the cleaning area the cleaning action
almost ceases instantaneously. Now the movie that was shown earlier
very dramatically illustrated that point. The cleaning action-as soon
as the hoses moved to one side the cleaning action ceased here and
that is why this hose was moved back and forth, to drive this stuff
on down to where we want it."

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
273

Opinion of the Court

though the dairy barn in question attains the posture of
a successful venture, more than that is needed for
invention." '
The Court of Appeals disagreed with
the District Court's conclusion on the crucial issue of
obviousness.
It has long been clear that the Constitution requires
that there be some "invention" to be entitled to patent
protection. Dann v. Johnston, ante, p. 219. As we
explained in Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248,
267 (1851): "[U]nless more ingenuity and skill . . .
were required . . . than were possessed by an ordinary
mechanic acquainted with the business, there was an
absence of that degree of skill and ingenuity which constitute essential elements of every invention. In other
words, the improvement is the work of the skillful
mechanic, not that of the inventor." This standard was
enacted in 1952 by Congress in 35 U. S. C. ยง 103 "as a
codification of judicial precedents . . . with congressional
directions that inquiries into the obviousness of the subject matter sought to be patented are a prerequisite to
patentability." Graham v. John Deere Co., 383 U. S. 1,
17 (1966). Section 103 provides:
"A patent may not be obtained though the invention is not identically disclosed or described as
set forth in section 102 of this title, if the differences
between the subject matter sought to be patented
and the prior art are such that the subject matter as
a whole would have been obvious at the time the
invention was made to a person having ordinary
skill in the art to which said subject matter pertains.
Patentability shall not be negatived by the manner
in which the invention was made."
The court also concluded that "while the combination of old

elements may have performed a useful function, it added nothing
to the nature and quality of dairy barns theretofore used."

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

The ultimate test of patent validity is one of law,
Great A. & P. Tea Co. v. Supermarket Corp., 340 U. S.
147, 155 (1950), but resolution of the obviousness issue
necessarily entails several basic factual inquiries, Graham
v. John Deere Co., supra, at 17.
"Under ยง 103, the scope and content of the prior
art are to be determined; differences between the
prior art and the claims at issue are to be ascertained; and the level of ordinary skill in the pertinent art resolved." Ibid.
The Court of Appeals concluded that "the facts presented at trial clearly do not support [the District
Court's] finding of obviousness under the three-pronged
Graham test ...." 474 F. 2d, at 172. We disagree and
hold that the Court of Appeals erroneously set aside the
District Court's findings.
The scope of the prior art was shown by prior patents,
prior art publications, affidavits of people having knowledge of prior flush systems analogous to respondent's,
and the testimony of a dairy operator with 22 years of
experience who described flush systems he had seen on
visits to dairy farms throughout the country. Our independent examination of that evidence persuades us of its
sufficiency to support the District Court's finding "as a
fact that each and all of the component parts of this
patent . . . were old and well-known throughout the
dairy industry long prior to the date of the filing of the
application for the Gribble patent . . . . What Mr.
Gribble referred to . . . as the essence of the patent,
to-wit, the manure flush system, was old, various means
for flushing manure from dairy barns having been used
long before the filing of the application . "" Indeed,
6 The

court stated:
"I therefore find as a fact that each and all of the component
parts of this patent as listed under the applicant's claims set out

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
273

Opinion of the Court

respondent admitted at trial "that the patent is made up
of a combination of old elements" and "that all elements
are individually old . .

.

."

Accordingly, the District

Court properly followed our admonition in Great A. & P.
Tea Co. v. Supermarket Corp., supra, at 152: "Courts
should scrutinize combination patent claims with a care
proportioned to the difficulty and improbability of finding invention in an assembly of old elements.... A patent for a combination which only unites old elements
with no change in their respective functions ...obviously

withdraws what already is known into the field of its
monopoly and diminishes the resources available to skillful men .. "
The Court of Appeals recognized that the patent combined old elements for applying water to a conventional
sloped floor in a dairy barn equipped with drains at the
bottom of the slope and that the purpose of the storage
tank-to accumulate a large volume of water capable of
being released in a cascade or surge-was equally conventional. 474 F. 2d, at 169. It concluded, however,
that the element lacking in the prior art was any evidence of an arrangement of the old elements to effect
the abrupt release of a flow of water to wash animal
wastes from the floor of a dairy barn. Ibid. Therefore,
in said patent, were old and well-known throughout the dairy
industry long prior to the date of the filing of the application for
the Gribble patent. I further find that what Mr. Gribble referred
to in his deposition as the essence of the patent, to-wit, the manure
flush system, was old, various means for flushing manure from
dairy barns having been used long before the filing of the application for the Gribble patent, the general idea in that connection
being a hard surfaced sloping floor onto which the cows' offal was
dropped, and some system of introducing water in sufficient quantities and force onto said floor to wash the offal therefrom, with a
ditch or drain to carry the offal so washed away from the barn,
either into a manure container or otherwise."

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion of the Court

425 U. S.

"although the [respondent's] flush system does not embrace a complicated technical improvement, it does
achieve a synergistic result through a novel combination." Id., at 173.
We cannot agree that the combination of these old
elements to produce an abrupt release of water directly
on the barn floor from storage tanks or pools can
properly be characterized as synergistic, that is, "result[ing] in an effect greater than the sum of the
several effects taken separately." Anderson's-Black Rock
v. Pavement Co., 396 U. S. 57, 61 (1969). Rather, this
patent simply arranges old elements with each performing the same function it had been known to perform,
although perhaps producing a more striking result than
in previous combinations. Such combinations are not
patentable under standards appropriate for a combination patent. Great A. & P. Tea Co. v. Supermarket
Corp., supra; Anderson's-Black Rock v. Pavement Co.,
supra. Under those authorities this assembly of old elements that delivers water directly rather than through
pipes or hoses to the barn floor falls under the head of
"the work of the skilful mechanic, not that of the inventor." Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How., at 267. Exploitation of the principle of gravity adds nothing to the
sum of useful knowledge where there is no change in the
respective functions of the elements of the combination;
this particular use of the assembly of old elements would
be obvious to any person skilled in the art of mechanical
application. See Dann v. Johnston, ante, at 229-230.
Though doubtless a matter of great convenience, producing a desired result in a cheaper and faster way, and
enjoying commercial success, Dairy Establishment "did
not produce a 'new or different function' . . . within the

test of validity of combination patents." Anderson'sBlack Rock v. Pavement Co., supra, at 60. These

SAKRAIDA v. AG PRO, INC.
273

283

Opinion of the Court

desirable benefits "without invention will not make
patentability." Great A. & P. Tea Co. v. Supermarket
Corp., 340 U. S., at 153. See Dann v. Johnston, ante,
at 230 n. 4.
Reversed.

