OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Per Curiam

425 U. S.

QUINN, COMMISSIONER, CHICAGO FIRE
DEPARTMENT v. MUSCARE
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 75-130. Argued March 30, 1976-Decided May 3, 1976
Writ of certiorari to review the Court of Appeals' judgment holding
that respondent fireman was suspended without procedural due
process for violating the challenged fire department personalappearance regulation, and expressing doubt as to the validity of
such regulation, is dismissed as improvidently granted, where, following the grant of certiorari, this Court in Kelley v. Johnson, ante,
p. 238, upheld a similar police department regulation, and the applicable civil service rules were revised to provide for presuspension hearings in all nonemergency cases.
520 F. 2d 1212, certiorari dismissed as improvidently granted.

William R. Quinlan argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were Daniel Pascale and Edmund
Hatfield.
Linda R. Hirshman argued the cause for respondent.
With her on the brief was Robert S. Sugarman.*
PER CURIAM.

The respondent, a lieutenant in the Chicago Fire Department, was suspended from his job for a 29-day period
in 1974 as a result of charges related to his violation of
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by Michael P.
Bucklo and David A. Goldberger for the Illinois Division of the
American Civil Liberties Union; by Jerry D. Anker for the Coalition of American Public Employees; and by Victor J. Cacciatore
for the Chicago. Patrolmen's Assn.
J. Albert Woll, Robert C. Mayer, and Laurence Gold filed a brief
for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations as amicus curiae.

QUINN v. MUSCARE
560

Per Curiam

the department's personal-appearance regulation.' Following the suspension, the respondent brought an action
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking an injunction and backpay on
the ground that the regulation infringed his constitutional right to determine "the details of his personal
appearance." 2 The department defended the challenged
regulation as a safety measure designed to insure proper
functioning of gas masks worn by firefighters and as a
means of promoting discipline in the department and
the uniform, well-groomed appearance of its members.
After a hearing focusing on the operation of the selfcontained breathing apparatus used by members of the
department, the District Court found that the personalappearance regulation was justified "on safety grounds"
1The personal-appearance regulation provided:
"All members of the Chicago Fire Department shall present a
clean and proper appearance in personal care and attire at all times.
The face shall be clean-shaven, except that a non-eccentric mustache
is permissible. Mustaches shall not extend beyond a line perpendicular to the corner of the mouth and the full upper lip must be
readily visible. Sideburns shall be trimmed short and shall be no
lower than a line from the middle of the ear.
"Hair shall be worn neatly and closely trimmed, and the hair
outline shall follow the contour of the ear and slope to the back
of the neck. It will be gradually tapered overall, in order to present
a neat appearance." ยง 51.133 of the Rules and Regulations of the
Chicago Fire Department.
The respondent was also charged with conduct unbecoming a
member of the Chicago Fire Department, ยง 61.001, and disobedience
of orders, ยง 61.006, in connection with his failure to conform his appearance to the above regulation.
2 The respondent contended that the personal-appearance regulation violated his "rights to personal freedom guaranteed by the First,
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments." In addition, he claimed that the regulation proscribing conduct unbecoming a member of the department was vague and overbroad and
that his suspension without a prior hearing was unconstitutional.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Per Curiam

425 U. S.

and that the respondent's goatee violated the regulation.
Explaining that the other regulations cited in the discharge notice were not "relevant or pertinent to the issues," the court denied the respondent's motion for
injunctive relief.
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed,
holding that the respondent "was suspended without
procedural due process." 3 The appellate court concluded that the Constitution requires "that some opportunity to respond to charges against him be made available to the governmental employee prior to disciplinary
action against him." The Court of Appeals did not
dispute the District Court's determination that "the only
issue" was whether the suspension for having a goatee
was "justifiable under the circumstances." Although it
did not reach the merits of the respondent's challenge to
the constitutionality of the hair regulation, the Court of
Appeals did note that the regulation "does not appear to
be co-extensive with the need for safe and efficient use of
gas masks and, if that is the sole justification, might well
be more narrowly drawn."
Following the grant of certiorari and the oral argument
in this case, this Court in another case upheld a police
department hair regulation similar to that challenged by
the respondent in the present litigation. Kelley v. Johnson, ante, p. 238. In that case, we concluded that "the
overall need for discipline, esprit de corps, and uniformity" defeated the policeman's "claim based on the liberty
guaranty of the Fourteenth Amendment." Ante, at
246, 248. Kelley v. Johnson renders immaterial the
District Court's factual determination regarding the
$Although the respondent had not been afforded a pre-suspension
hearing he had a right to a post-suspension hearing before the Civil
Service Commission. The Commission was empowered to award
backpay and to order the deletion of the suspension from the employee's service record.

QUINN v. MUSCARE
560

Per Curiam

safety justification for the department's hair regulation about which the Court of Appeals expressed doubt.
Moreover, after the grant of certiorari, this Court was
informed that the Civil Service Commission of the city
of Chicago had revised its rules to provide for presuspension hearings in all nonemergency cases.4 While
this voluntary rule change was subject to rescission,
counsel for the petitioner candidly advised the Court at
oral argument that even if the petitioner should prevail,
it was very doubtful that the Commission would revert
to its former suspension procedures.
In view of these developments, the writ of certiorari
is dismissed as improvidently granted.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

4Although the new rule was adopted in August 1975, before
the grant of certiorari on October 14, 1975, it was first brought to
our attention in the respondent's brief filed on February 4, 1976.
The revised procedures providing an opportunity for a pre-suspension
hearing apply to all Chicago civil service employees except members
of the police department, who are governed by a different set of
similar rules.

