376

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

REED ET AL. v. THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
DELAWARE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 744. Argued and submitted April 25, 26, 30, 1928.-Decided
May 28, 1928.
Resolutions of the U. S. Senate created a committee of Senators to
investigate the means used to influence the nomination of candidates for the Senate, and empowered it to require attendance of
witnesses and production of books and papers, to take and preserve all ballot-boxes, etc., used in a certain senatorial election,
"and to do such other acts as may be necessary in the matter of
said investigation." The committee and their agent brought suit
in a federal court against county officers to obtain possession of
the ballot-boxes, etc. Hleld:
1. That the general authority conveyed by the clause above quoted
is to be confined to acts of the same general class as those specifically authorized. P. 389.
2. The context, the practice of the Senate to rely on its own powers,
and the attending circumstances show that the Senate did not
intend to authorize the committee to invoke the power of the
Judicial Department. Id.
3. Therefore, the plaintiffs were not "authorized by law to sue,"
within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 24, defining jurisdiction of the
District Court. Id.
21 F. (2d) 1018, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 613, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the District
Court, 21 F. (2d) 144, dismissing a bill brought by the
members of a special committee of the Senate, and their
agent, against county officers, for the purpose of requiring the latter to deliver to the former the ballot-boxes,
ballots, etc., used in a senatorial election.

Mr. Levi Cooke, for petitioners. Senators James A.
Reed, Charles L. McNary, William H. King, and Robert

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

377

Argument for Petitioners.

M. La Follette,.Jr.,and Mr. Jerry C. South, the petitioners
in the case, and Senator Guy D. Goff and Mr. FredericP.
Lee, Legislative Counsel for the Senate, were on the brief.
This cause presents a controversy which requires the
exercise of the judicial power of the United States. The
District Court dismissed the petition upon the ground
that the cause presented for determination could not result in a judgment, the rendition of which would be the
exercise of judicial powers. The point was not raised or
argued by counsel for either petitioners or respondents
before that court. The court came to this conclusion by
the following steps: The Constitution vests in the Senate
the determination of the rules of its proceedings; the
regulation of the mode and manner of procedure of its
committees is a part of the determination of the rules of
proceedings; this determination is exclusively for the Senate, except that " in cases or controversies such, for instance, as habeas corpus proceedings," a court may construe the rules of proceedings of the Senate; the Senate
would not be bound by a judgment of the court in the
instant case," "because of its constitutional right to determine under its rules of proceedings whether or not the
committee it once authorized to act for it, has continuing
power to act under that authority."
The trial court shows unnecessary concern regarding
further possible action by the Senate when the authority
of the committee plainly discloses the Senate's determination to investigate the election of a Senator, a purpose
the accomplishment of which primarily requires the possession of the ballot boxes and election papers pleaded as
the subject of the suit.
The subject-matter of the litigation is the ballot boxes
and election papers and the right of possession thereto.
As an incident to arriving at its decision, the court must
determine the status of a Senate special select committee.
The fact that the cause involves the determination

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

through court proceedings of legal status, does not prevent the cause from being a case or controversy within
the meaning of those terms as used in the Constitution,
nor the judgment of the court rendered therein from being an exercise of judicial power. McGrainv. Daugherty,
273 U. S. 135; Tutun v. United States, 270 U. S. 568;
Fidelity Nat'l Bank v. Swope, 274 U. S. 123.
Jurisdiction was vested in the District Court by § 24,
I[ First, of the Judicial Code.
This is a civil suit in equity. Relief in the form of a
mandatory injunction is within the power of a federal
court of equity to grant. Covington Stockyards Co. v.
Keith, 139 U. S. 128; In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548; Washington ex rel. Markham v. Seattle, 1 F. (2d) 605; id.,
2 F., (2d) 264. Mandatory injunctions may be issued by
a federal court in equity against state and municipal
officers to compel the performance of ministerial duties.
The federal courts have jurisdiction in equity to render
assistance to the National Government by appropriate
remedy in the exercise of a sovereign power or in the discharge of a sovereign duty vested in or imposed upon the
National Government by the Constitution, expressly or
impliedly. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United States v.
San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273; United States v.
Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 215; United States v.
Rickert, 188 I. S. 432; Heckman v. United States, 224
U. S. 413; Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S.
405; Colorado v. Toll, 268 U. S. 228; Missouri v. Holland,
252 U. S. 416.
The constitutional power of inquiry of the Senate is
involved in the present case. Newberry v. United States,
256 U. S. 232; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.
The constitutional power of inquiry has been vested
by the Senate in the special select committee.
The people of Pennsylvania have rights conferred on
them by the Seventeenth Amendment in respect of the

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

379

Argument for Petitioners.

election of members of the United States Senate. Such
rights involve the relationship of citizens of the United
States to the Federal Government. The United States,
as parens patriae, is authorized to protect these rights
when protection is appropriate. Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447; Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12.
There is no clear, adequate, and complete remedy at
law.
The suit is brought by the United States and by officers
of the United States authorized by law to sue. The
United States is the real party in interest. It is the constitutional powers of the National Government that are
involved. These are powers of inquiry auxiliary to the
power to judge the elections, returns, and qualifications
of members of the Senate, or auxiliary to the power to
legislate for the regulation of the times and manner of
holding Senatorial elections, not only in order to protect
the Senate, but also to protect the electoral rights of
citizens of the United States. The suit presents for decision the right of the United States to preserve the integrity of the legislative branch of the Government in
part through the exercise by a Senate Committee of these
constitutional powers of inquiry.
Any suit brought in the exercise of a constitutional
power of the United States on behalf of citizens of the
United States, or for the protection of the interests of the
United States, or any of its judicial, legislative, or executive agencies, is a suit in which the United States is the
real party in interest. United States v. San-Jacinto Tin
Co., 125 U. S. 273; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Sanitary
District v. United States, 266 U. S. 405. It may not be
said that the National Government has a less interest in
the execution of powers of the legislative branch of the
Government than of the executive branch.
If a suit involves a public interest which the United
States undertakes to protect, or the interest of one of its

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

own governmental agencies, such a suit is a suit "brought
by the United States" whether or not so entitled. Benton v. Woolsey, 12 Pet. 27; Jecker v. Montgomery, 18
How. 110. See also the following cases to the effect that
suit against an officer of the United States is a suit against
the United States if the United States is the real party in
interest: InternationalPostal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194
U. S. 601; Lo 'siana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627; Wells v.
Roper, 246 U. j. 335; Lambert Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co.,
258 U. S. 377; Morrison v. Work, 266 U. S. 481.
If it were found that, in order to maintain jurisdiction,
the United States, even though the real party in interest,
is nevertheless required to appear on the record as a complainant, the United States may, in the discretion of the
Court, without dismissal of the petition, be joined with
the present petitioners by amendment under Rule 19 of
the Equity Rules.
A suit may be brought by the United States, though
not instituted by the Department of Justice. The Congress has the power to designate the officers or agencies
to represent the Government in suits other than those
brought to enforce the separate constitutional rights of
either House.
There may not be imputed to Congress any intent to
vest in the Department of Justice the discretion as to
whether or not suit should be instituted to enforce any
of the separate constitutional rights of the Senate. But
even if such intent were so imputed and an Act of Congress to such effect could be found, such an Act should
not be construed as affording an exclusive procedure. It
could not deprive the Senate of its power to resort directly, if it so desired, to the courts in aid of the execution by the Senate of one of its separate powers under
the Constitution. The Senate itself, or a duly authorized committee or other representative thereof, is the
only governmental agency having the right to determine

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

381

Argument for Petitioners.

whether or not resort shall be had to the courts for the
enforcement of such rights and to determine by whom
the Senate is to be represented in any necessary judicial
proceedings.
The petitioners are officers of the United States. They
include four members of the United States Senate.
Whether or not an United States Senator is an "officer
of the United States" within the meaning of § 24 of the
Judicial Code is a question of statutory interpretation
and not a question of construction of the Constitution.
Lamar v. United States, 240 U. S. 60; id., 241 U. S. 103.
It has been held (Lamar V. United States, 241 U. S.
103) that a Representative in Congress is "an officer acting under the authority of the United States" within the
meaning of a statute punishing a person for pretending
to be such an officer.
In Ex parte Yarborough, 110 U. S. 651, this Court said
that the Constitution "created the office of member of
Congress." Cited with approval in Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, and Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58;
and see United States v. Aczel, 219 Fed. 917, id., 232 Fed.
652. Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344; United
States v. Germaine, 99 U. 5& 508; and United States v.
Mouat, 124 U. S. 303, distinguished.
In the few cases in state courts in which the question
has arisen, the holding has been that a' Senator or Representative in Congress is not a State officer, but is an officer
of the United States. See State ex rel. Eaton v. Schmahl,
140 Minn. 219; State ex rel. Chandler v.' Howell, 104
Wash. 99; State ex rel. Spofford v. Gifford, 22 Idaho 613;
Eversole v. Brown, 21 Ky. L. Rep. 925.
Since the adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment the
Lamar case is controlling: a member of either House of
Congress is an officer of the United States within the
meaning of such statutes as § 24 of the Judicial Code.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

The petitioner, South, was appointed by the committee
as an officer authorized to represent it and act as its
attorney. The Constitution, Art. II, § 2, recognizes that
officers of the United States may be appointed in a
manner other than by the President, heads of departments, or courts of law, as specified in that section.
The constitutional authority of the Senate to choose its
own officers is one such other method of appointment.
The resolutions need not state in terms that the committee might institute suit. Such a power is implied
from the powers to "require by subpcena or otherwise"
and "to do all acts necessary." The committee is the
agent of the Senate' in conducting the inquiry. Under
the ordinary principles of agency, authority "to do all
acts necessary" to accomplish an end, or similar language,
or authority to take possission of certain documents or
papers, includes the power to bring suit. State ex rel.
Giroux v. Giroux, 15 Mont. 137; Briggs v. Yetzer, 103
Iowa 342; Ryan v. Tudor, 31 Kans. 366; Joyce v. Duplessis, 15 La. Ann. 242. See also Citizens' Nat'l Bank v.
Berry & Co., 53 Kans. 696; Potter v. N. Y. Infant
Asylum, 44 Hun. (N. Y.) 367. The authority is vested
in the special select committee by "law." A resolution
of the Senate is law if adopted in the execution of one of
the separate constitutional powers of the Senate. The
history of § 24, par. First, gives force to this contention.
The phrase "under the authority of any Act of Congress," in 3 Stat. 245, was subsequently changed to "authorized by law." Rev. Stats. § 563. Under this much
broader phrase it would seem that not only officers authorized by Act of Congress but also officers authorized
by the Constitution, by treaty, or by resolution of either
House of Congress adopted in the exercise of its separate
constitutional powers, are included.
The suit is not a suit against a State.

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

383

Argument for Respondents.

Use of its own forces is not the exclusive method of
enforcing the Senate's process. In the event of disobedience to a subpoena, the Senate may proceed vi et armis
and through its own force, exerted by the Sergeant at
Arms or his deputies, arrest the witness (McGrain v.
Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135), or seize the papers subpoenaed; or may through its own proceedings punish the
contempt. These remedies are available whether the
Senate is exerting powers of inquiry auxiliary to its functions regarding its membership (Anderson v. Dunn, 6
Wheat. 204; Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521; Hinds'
Prec. §§ 1604, 1666, 1669, and 1671; S. Doc. 278, 53d
Cong., 2d sess., p. 311), 0r.whether it is exerting powers
of inquiry auxiliary to its legislative functions (Hinds'
Prec. §§ 1720 and 1722; McGrain v. Daugherty, supra;
unpublished opinion of Justice Hoehling in Sinclair v.
United States in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, July 14, 1924; S. Rept. 142, 38th Cong., 2d
sess., p. 20 of the "Journal of the Committee").
The above remedies, however, are not exclusive. If
such remedies were exclusive, it could be only by reason
of an implied constitutional prohibition preventing the
Senate from resorting to the courts. It is not believed
that any such constitutionalprohibition can be implied.
See In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661; I. C. C. v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564.
The status of the special select committee is a continuing one.
Mr. Albert J. Williams for respondents.
The case is moot. The respondents have in the most
practical manner recognized the right of the Senate
through one of its duly authorized committees to demand
andreceive the ballot boxes and their contents and other
papers and records appertaining to said election. Though

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondents.

277 U. S.

some of them are missing, the right to them is not denied;
they have simply been lost or destroyed.
The District Court can exercise only such jurisdiction
as is authorized by acts of Congress. United States v.
Hudson, 7 Cranch 32; The Mayor, etc. v. Smith, 6 Wall.
247; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1.
This is not a suit by the United States. It is fundamental that the United States should have the right to
determine when and by whom litigation shall be instituted, to enforce its sovereignty and protect its interests.
It has done so. Civil actions in which the United States
is concerned are to be prosecuted by the United States
Attorneys. Rev. Stats, § 771; Confiscation Cases, 7 Wall.
454; United States v. McAvoy, Fed. Cas. 15654; United
States v. Rosenthal, 121 Fed. 862. . An Act of Congress
was necessary to enable the Attorney General, other
officers of the Department of Justice and special assistants to conduct grand jury proceedings. Act of June 30,
1906, c. 3935, 34 Stat. 816. Rev. Stats. § 361 places the
authority to appear in this Court on behalf of the United
States or its officers in the Attorney General and officers
of his department.
Congress has therefore designated who shall act for
the United States in instituting and prosecuting suits in
its name and to protect, its interests. The Senate is no
more exempt from these acts than any other branch of
the Government. In the exercise of its prerogatives by
its officers and process, the Senate may act without let
or hindrance, but when it applies in the name of the
United States to the judicial branch of the Government
for assistance in the enforcement of its powers, there is
no good reason why it is not just as amenable to the law
it helped create, prescribing what officer and department
shall institute and conduct all suits by the United States,
as any other branch of the Government. Petitioners

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

385

Argument fof Respondents.

challenge the right of Congress to deny the Senate the
right to choose whom it will to represent it in its resort to
the Courts in aid of one of its separate powers under
the Constitution. Therein they lose sight of the fact
that such a suit, if maintainable at all, must be a suit
by the United States and not of the Senate.
In the case at bar the suit was not brought in the name
of the United States, and was not instituted and conducted by either the District Attorney or any officer of
the Department of Justice (distinguishing Benton v.
Woolsey, 12 Pet. 27, and Jecker v. Montgomery, 18 How.
110); it lacks all the earmarks of a suit by the United
States and in fact and in name is not a suit by the United
States, but by the members of a committee of the Senate,
and that is all. Even their status as a committee of the
Senate was in question until the passage of Senate Resolution No. 10, 70th Congress.
The guit is not by an officer of the United States authorized by law to sue. We have heretofore questioned
whether the term "officer" as used in the Act applies to
a Senator, and contended that it should be restricted to
"officers" within § 2, Art. II, of the Constitution, citing
United States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508. But the primary question to determine in a given case, is whether
authority has been given by law to sue. If so, and the
one to whom the authority is given is an officer of the
United States, even thoughnot within § 2, Art. II, of the
Constitution, he would seem to be within the meaning
of the Act.
It must be conceded that the Senate cannot of its own
motion create power. All its powers are derived from the
Constitution or Act of Congress. It cannot enlarge upon
those powers nor vest greater powers in its committees.
.When it passes a resolution to conduct an inquiry and
appoints a committee to conduct it, it does not create

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

power; it but delegates to the committee a power inherent
in the Senate. This must be so. Thereunder neither the
Senate nor the House can do singly what Congress can.
In short, if the Senate has not power to sue, it cannot
legally grant such a power to one of its committees. Can
the Senate sue? How would it sue? By joining all the
members? It is not a legal entity and therefore could
not sue in a corporate capacity. It is manifest that the
Senate cannot sue. No provision has been made for it
to do so, nor any machinery provided for it to do so.
What it cannot do, it cannot enable one of its committees
to do. Hence it cannot by law authorize any of its members to sue. Therefore, the resolutions in question are
not an authorization by law to sue.
The petitioners ceased to be a committee of the Senate
on the expiration of the 69th Congress.
MR. JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioners brought this suit in the United States
court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania. The court
held it was without jurisdiction and dismissed the case.
21 F. (2d) 144. The Circuit Court of Appeals adopted its
opinion and affirmed the decree. 21 F. (2d) 1018.
Petitioners maintain that the district court had jurisdiction under the first paragraph of § 24 of the Judicial
Code, U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 41, which provides that the district courts shall have original jurisdiction "of all suits of
a civil nature, at common law or in equity, brought by the
United States, or by any officer thereof authorized by law
to sue
Petitioners, other than South, are United States Senators and constitute a special committee created by Senate
Resolution 195, passed May 19, 1926, to make investigation of means used to influence the nomination of candidates for the Senate. The Resolution empowered the
committee "to require by subpcena or otherwise the at,
.

REED v. COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
376

387

Opinion of the Court.

tendance of witnesses, the production of books, papers,
and documents, and to do such other acts as may be
necessary in the matter of said investigation."
At a general election held in Pennsylvania, November
2, 1926, William S. Vare and William B. Wilson were opposing candidates for the United States Senate. Vare
was given the certificate of election and Wilson initiated
a contest. Thereafter, January 11,. 1927, the Senate
passed Resolution 324. It recites that Wilson charges
fraudulent and unlawful practices in connection with
Vare's nomination and the election and declares that, unless preserved for the use of the Senate, evidence relating
to the election will be lost or destroyed. The Resolution
empowers the special committee "to take .
. and
preserve all ballot boxes, . . . ballots, return sheets,
, ..and other records, books and documents used in
said senatorial election ... ." It confers on the committee "all powers of procedure witlwespect to the subject matter of this resolution that said committee possesses under Resolution Numbered 195 . . . with
respect to the subject matter of that resolution." And it
requires the Sergeantat Arms of the Senate to attend and
execute the directions of the committee.
The Chairman of the Committee on Audit and Control
of Contingent Expenditures having refused to approve
the special committee's vouchers for expenses after the
expiration of that Congrees, the Sergeant at Arms refused
to execute its orders. Thereupon the special committee
directed the petitioner South, as its representative, to take
possession of the boxes, ballots and other things referred
to inResolution 324.
Respondents are the commissioners, the prothonotary
and a justice of the peace of Delaware County, Pennsylvania. They are authorized custodians of boxes, ballots
and other things used in connection with the election.
These were demanded -bySouth in behalf of the commit-

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

tee. Respondents declined to give them up, and this suit
was brought to obtain possession of them.
Petitioners do not claim that any Act of Congress
authorizes the committee or its members, collectively or
separately, to sue. Of course, South's authority is no
greater than that of the committee which he represents.
The suit cannot be maintained unless the committee or
its members were authorized to sue by Resolutions 195
and 324, even if it be assumed "thatthe Senate alone may
give that authority. The power is not specifically
granted by either resolution. Petitioners rely on the general language in Resolution 195 which follows the express
authorization of the committee to use its own process to
require the production of evidence. The words are "and
to do such other acts as may be necessary in the matter
of said investigation." The resolutions are to be construed having regard to the power possessed and customarily exerted by the Senate. It is the judge of the
election , returns and qualifications of its members.
Art. I, § 5. It is fully empowered, and may determine
such matters without the aid of the House of Representa,
tives or the Executive or Judicial Department. That
power carries with it authority to take such steps as may
be appropriate and necessary to secure information upon
which to decide concerning elections. It has been customary for the Senate-and the House as well-to rely
on its own power to compel attendance of witnesses and
production of evidence in investigations made by it or
through its committees. By means of its own process or
that of its committee, the Senate is empowered to obtain
evidence relating to the matters committed to it by the
Constitution. McGrainv. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135, 160,
161, 167, 174. And Congress has passed laws calculated
to facilitate such investigations. R. S. §§ 101-104, U. S.
C. Tit. 2, §§. 191-194. Petitioners have not called attention to any action of the Senate, and we know of none,

QUAKER CITY CAB CO. v. PENNA.
376

380

Syllabus.

that supports the construction for which they contend.
In the absence of some definite indication of that purpose,
the Senate may not reasonably be held to have intended
to depart from its established usage. Authority to exert
the powers of the Senate to compel production of evidence
differs widely from authority to invoke judicial power for
that purpose. The phrase "such other acts as may be
necessary" may-not be taken to include everything that
under any circumstances might be covered by its words.
The meaning of the general language employed is to be
confined to acts belonging to the same general class as
those specifically authorized. Oates v. National Bank,
100 U. S. 239, 244. Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U. S. 85, 90.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. United States, ante, p.
291. The-context, the established practice of the Senate
to rely on its own powers, and the attending circumstances
oppose the construction for which petitioners contend and
show that the Senate did not intend to authorize the committee, or anticipate that there might be need, to invoke
the power of the Judicial Department.. Petitioners are
not "authorized by law to sue."
Decree affirmed.
QUAKER CITY CAB COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 139. Argued April 20, 1928.-Decided May 28, 1928.
A law of Pennsylvania (Pa. L. 1889, 420, 431; Pa. St., 1920, § 20,388)

provides that a tax be laid on the gross receipts derived- by foreign
or domestic corporations from their operation of taxicabs in intrastate transportation of passengers, but does not tax the like receipts
of individuals and partnerships in the same kind of business.
Held:
1. The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment extends
to foreign corporations within the jurisdiction of the State, and

