NATL. LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

413

Syllabus.

NATIONAL LEATHER COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 205. Argued February 23, 1928.-Decided May 28, 1928.
A law of Massachusetts (G. L., 1921, c. 63) imposes an excise on foreign corporations for the privilege of carrying on or doing business
in the State, at a fixed rate per thousand dollars upon such proportion of the fair cash value of all the shares constituting the capital
stock of the corporation taxed, as the value of the assets, real and
personal, employed in business within the -State bears to the value
of its total assets. Petitioner, a Maine corporation, had its offices
and transacted its business wholly in Massachusetts, the business
comprising the buying of hides and skins, having them tanned 6y
others, and selling the leather through the tanners. It operated no
tanneries itself. It owned all the stock of two subsidiary Maine
corporations, both having tanneries and engaged in tanning in Massachusetts, one of which did tanning for petitioner alone, and the
other chiefly so, though it also had selling branches in other States.
In assessing petitioner's excise, the value of the stocks of the subsidiaries was included as part of its assets employed by it in business within Massachusetts. Held:
1. That the finding that the subsidiary stocks were so employed was
justifiable, and that their inclusion in computing the excise was not
to tax property beyond the State's jurisdiction, in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, even assuming
that they had no situs in Massachusetts for the purpose of imposing
a direct property tax. Pp. 422, 423.
2. The question whether the value of the stock of one of the subsidiaries attributable to its business in other States should have been
deducted, is not presented, inasmuch as its decision was left open
by the court below as dependent on a different statutory remedy
from the one invoked in this case. P. 424.
3. Whether the subsidiaries would be subject to similar excises, and
the constitutional propriety of so taxing them, either independently
or in connection with the excise against petitioner, is not considered.
Id.
256 Mass. 419, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Leather Co.

277 U. S.

EuRoR to a decree of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, dismissing petitions for the recovery of
excise taxes levied upon a foreign corporation for the
privilege of doing business in Massachusetts. The judgment was entered in the Supreme Judicial Court in Suffolk County on a rescript from the full court.
Mr. Philip Nichols, with whom Mr. Putnam B. Smith
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
A State cannot require of a foreign corporation, as a
condition of doing even a purely local business within its
limits, that it pay an excise tax upon or measured by
property not within the jurisdiction of the State. Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 274 U. S. 76; Western
Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Looney v. Crane Co., 245
U. S. 178; International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts,
246 U. S. 135; Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268
U. S. 203.
The inclusion of the stock of the subsidiary companies
among the assets employed by plaintiff in error in business in Massachusetts, for the purpose of measuring the
"corporate excess" taxable in Massachusetts, was in
effect the imposition of a tax upon such stock. Under
the Massachusetts law, corporate excess is the amount by
which the value of the aggregate capital stock exceeds
the value of the fixed assets, such as real estate and machinery, and the non-taxable securities only, and consequently tangible personal property and taxable securities
are included in the corporate excess, as well as good-will
and franchise value. The corporate excess of a foreign
corporation doing business in Massachusetts thus determined is allocated to Massachusetts in the same proportion that the assets employed in business in Massachusetts
bear to the entire assets.

NATL. LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
413

415

Argument for the Leather Co.

Therefore, the determination of the situs of the assets
of a foreign corporation not only establishes the apportionment of the good-will or franchise value, if any, as
between Massachusetts and other States in which the corporation owns property or does business, but, with respect
to tangible personal property ahd securities which would
be taxable if owned by an individual resident, it settles
the question whether the property is to be taxed by Massachusetts or not; and the inclusion of the stock of the
other two companies among the "assets employed in
business in Massachusetts" by plaintiff in error was thus
in effect the direct taxation of such stock in the hands of
plaintiff in error.
The stock of the other companies owned by plaintiff in
error was not within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. A
corporation has its domicil in the State which created it,
and even if its principal, or only, place of business is in
another State, it ii still a foreign corporation within such
State. The primary situs of stock in a corporation is the
domicil of the stockholder, and when one corporation
owns stock in another, the situs of the stock so held is the
State in which the corporation owning the stock was
organized. Sturgis v. Carter, 114 U. S. 511; Hawley v.
Malden, 232 U. S. 1; Wright v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 687.
Decisions holding that, when capital in the form of intangible property is regularly employed in business within a State, such property may be subject to taxation in
such State, although the owner is a non-resident or a
foreign corporation, are confined to credits in the form
of notes or otherwise in the hands of an agent for investment and reinvestment in the regular course of business.
New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; State Board v. Comptoir
Nationale D'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388; Scottish Ins. Co.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Leather Co.

277 U. S.

v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Orleans
Board of Assessors, 221 U. S. 346; DeGanay v. Lederer,
250 U. S. 376.
This principle has never until the present case been
extended to shares of stock in corporations.
The fact that the stock certificates happened to be kept
in Massachusetts is of no importance, at least when the
stock was not commonly bought, sold, or pledged by the
taxpayer and there was no business advantage in keeping
the stock certificates in any particular place. Kennedy
v. Hodges, 215 Mass. 112; Clark v. Treasurer, etc., 218
Mass. 292; Welch v. Treasurer, etc., 223 Mass. 87.
In a case like the present, the ownership of the stock is
merely a means of enjoying a beneficial interest in the
business and property of the corporations, and liability
to taxation, if it exists at all, must be based on the
residence of the taxpayer, the State in which the corporations were organized, or the State in which their property
was located or their business carried on. The first two
possible grounds of taxing jurisdiction admittedly do not
exist in the present case.
Jurisdiction for tax purposes over the shares of a foreign corporation owned by a non-resident cannot, however, be made to rest on the situs of the corporate property or the doing of corporate business within the taxing
State. R. I. Hospital Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270
U. S. 69.
The "corporate fiction" cannot constitutionally be disregarded and the plaintiff in error treated as the owner
of the property of its subsidiaries, or as carrying on business through them as its agents, because it owns all of
their corporate stock, when such a course is not necessary
to do justice, but will work gross injustice by taxing the
same property twice.

NATL. LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
413

417

Argument for the Leather Co.

It is well settled that a corporation is not doing business within a State merely because a subsidiary corporation of Which it owns all the stock is doing business in
such State. Philadelphia,etc. Ry. Co. v. McKibben, 243
U. S. 264; People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co.,
246 U. S. 79; Cannon Mfg. Co. v. Cudahy Co., 267 U. S.
333.
The present case is not only one of double taxation, but
of double taxation coupled with an arbitrary discrimination. If the Commqonwealth is justified in disregarding
the "corporate fiction," it should carry such disregard to
its logical conclusion and tax affiliated companies on
their combined assets and corporate excess, and not recognize the corporate fiction in taxing the subsidiaries and
disregard it in taxing the parent corporation, and thus, in
effect, tax the same property twice when all other property in the Commonwealth is taxed but once.
There is a peculiar injustice in the application of this
tax in that the value of the tanneries-the real estate and
machinery-which are locally taxed, is deducted from the
value of the corporate excess of the corporations which
own them, and if plaintiff in error were treated throughout as the owner of the assets, instead of the stock, of
the subsidiaries, the tanneries as well as the other property of the subsidiaries would be taxed but once. But
here, while it is treated as the owner of the assets of the
subsidiaries situated in Massachusetts for the purpose of
acquiring taxing jurisdiction, it is treated as the owner
of the stock of the subsidiaries for the purpose of measuring the tax, so that the value of the assets locally taxed
cannot be deducted from its corporate excess.
The decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts rests upon a misconstruction of the statute
which, if controlling, renders the statute clearly unconstitutional.

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the State.

277 U. S.

Mr. James S. Eastham, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Messrs. Arthur K. Reading,
Attorney General, F. Delano Putnam, and R. Ammi Cutter, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
The Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation has
determined as a matter of fact that the shares of stock in
the subsidiary corporations were assets of the plaintiff in
error actually employed in business in Massachusetts.
His finding should not be upset unless plainly wrong as
a matter of fact, or unless as a matter of law shares of
stock are assets incapable of being employed in business
outside the State of the domicil either of the corporation
owning or of that issuing the shares.
It is within the power of a State to levy an excise tax
upon a foreign corporation for the privilege of doing
intrastate business within the State, including as part of
the measure of the tax intangible assets employed in
business within the State by the taxpayer corporation.
Such intangible assets may properly include shares of
stock, belonging to the taxpayer, in foreign subsidiary
corporations (if such shares are employed as capital of
the taxpayer within the State) without in any way depriving the taxpayer corporation of its property without
due process of law.
The Massachusetts corporation tax, contained in General Laws (1921), c. 63, is an excise tax measured in
part by corporation excess. Shares of stock may be used
in a place where they are subject to control. They may
be subject to control outside the State of their technical
situs. In a business sense, certificates of stock represent
capital; they have an intrinsic value commensurate with
the value of the shares which they represent-and thus
may become the basis upon which the owner of the shares
is enabled to obtain credit at the place where the cer
tificates are found.

NATL. LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
413

419

Opinion of the Court.

The ownership of shares in subsidiaries may well be
for the purpose of exercising control of certain processes
essential to the conduct of business within the taxing
State by the parent company. Like other intangibles,
shares of stock may acquire a "business situs" outside the
domicil either of the stockholder or of the corporation
issuing the shares.
The facts presented by the record show clearly that the
Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation was warranted in finding that the shares in the subsidiary companies were employed in- business within Massachusetts
during the years in question.
MR. JUSTICE S~AFoRD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The National Leather Co., a Maine corporation, applied
by two petitions to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts for Suffolk County,1 for the abatement of portions of the taxes that had been exacted of it by the commissioner of corporations and taxation, under Chapter 63
of the General Laws, for the privilege of carrying on business in Massachusetts in the years 1922 and 1923. The
petitions alleged that the statute as applied was an attempt to tax property not within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts and repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The cases were consolidated, and at the heari'ng, by order
of the presiding justice, were reserved for determination
by the full court upon the pleadings and an agreed statement of facts. The court in banc sustained the excise,
256 Mass. 419; and in accordance with its rescript the
court for Suffolk County dismissed the petitions. The
writ of error was properly directed to the latter court.
See Davis v. Cohen Co., 268 U. S. 638, 639.
The statute provides that every foreign corporation
shall pay annually "with respect to the carrying on or
IThese proceedings were instituted under G. L. c. 63, § 77.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

doing of business by it within the commonwealth," an
excise consisting in part of an amount "equal to five dollars per thousand upon the value of the corporate excess
employed by it within the commonwealth," which is defined as " such proportion of the fair cash value of all the
shares constituting the capital stock . .
as the
value of the assets, both real and personal, employed in
any business within the Commonwealth .
.
bears
to the value of the total assets of the corporation," with
certain exceptions not here material. § 30, cl. 4; § 39(1).
The business of the National Leather Co.--hereinafter
called the petitioner-was the purchasing of hides and
skins, having them tanned by other companies, and selling the leather through the tanners. It operated no tanneries itself. Its business was conducted wholly in Massachusetts; its business offices were located there; and it
carried on no active business outside the State. Among
other properties it owned the entire capital stock, except
a few qualifying shares, of the A. C. Lawrence Leather
Co. and the National Calfskin Co., two other Maine corporations. Its upper leather was tanned chiefly by these
two subsidiary corporations; and its sole leather by other
corporations in which it had no interest.
The business of the Lawrence Company was the tanning of hides, principally for upper leather, which it sold
on a commission basis. Most of its tanning was done for
the petitioner. Its tanneries were in Massachusetts,
where it was engaged in business, but it was qualified to
do business and had selling branches in four or five other
States. The business of the Calfskin Company was tanning hides of the petitioner. Its tannery was in Massachusetts, where it was engaged in business. It had no
property or selling branches outside Massachusetts, and
was not qualified to do business in any other State except
Maine.

NATL LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
413

421

Opinion of the Court.

In determining the portions of the excises based upon
"corporate excess" the commissioner included all the
capital stock of the Lawrence Company and the Calfskin
Company owned by the petitioner, as part of the assets
employed by it in business within Massachusetts; but did
not include any stocks owned by it in other corporations
which were not engaged in business within Massachusetts.
The petitions for abatement were directed solely to the
portions of the excises assessed by reason of this inclusion
of the capital stocks of the Lawrence and Calfskin
Companies.
The petitioner contends that the inclusion of these
stocks as part of the assets employed by it in business in
Massachusetts for the purpose of measuring its taxable
corporate excess is in effect the imposition of a tax upon
the stocks themselves; that these stocks, as distinguished
from the assets of the subsidiary corporations, had no situs
in Massachusetts and were not within its jurisdiction;
and that the statute, so applied, is therefore beyond the
power of the State and violates the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Massachusetts court, in holding that the statute
had been properly construed and applied by the commissioner and in sustaining the validity of the taxes, said:
"The commissioner
.
in determining under G. L.
c. 63, § 44, the 'corporate excess employed within the
Commonwealth, by every foreign corporation' doing domestic business here is required to give those words the
definition and to follow the legislative mandate in G. L.
c. 63, § 30, cl. 4. . . . The petitioner held the stock
in its two subsidiary corporations for the lawful prosecution of its business. All the facts recited lead to the
conclusion that there was no error of law in including the
shares of stock for computation of the excise of the petitioner. The entire business of the petitioner was con-

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
277 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ducted in this Commonwealth, the certificates of stock of
the subsidiary corporations actually were kept here, all
the business of one and a large part of the business of the
other was carried on here, and the petitioner made use of
the activities of these subsidiary corporations as essential
parts of its business. Without discussing whether any one
or more of these factors standing alone would justify the
method employed in ascertaining the excise, their collective force is sufficient to that end. The interpretation
of the words of the statute requires this result.
The language of the statute

.

.

.

is explicit and its

meaning is not clouded or obscure. It cannot render subject to direct taxation property not within the jurisdiction; but where other essential elements are present the
excise is justified. . . . Apart from the domicil of
the several corporations and looking for the moment only
at tangible property and its physical location, there is
jurisdiction to sustain taxation in this Commonwealth.
All the business of the petitioner and of one of its subsidiaries and a principal part of the business of the
other subsidiary is conducted in Massachusetts. .
[There] is no direct tax on property, but an excise on a
foreign corporation, levied solely on the privilege of doing
domestic business within this Commonwealth, measured
in part on the value of stock employed in business in this
Commonwealth.

.

.

The

question;

whether

the

value of the stock of the Lawrence Company attributable
to that part of its business and property in other States
ought to have been deducted is not presented on this
record. That relates to overvaluation, as to which a different remedy is provided

.

.

.

G. L., c. 63, § 71."

For present purposes it may be assumed that the capital stocks of the two subsidiary companies had no situs
in Massachusetts which brought them within the jurisdiction of that State for the purpose of imposing a direct
property tax. See Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton,

NATL. LEATHER CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
413

423

Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S. 69, 80. But here the statute does not impose
any direct tax upon these stocks and, as construed by the
Massachusedts court, merely treats them as assets employed by the petitioner in its business within the State,
and therefore requires that they be included when the
total assets so employed by it are computed for the purpose of arriving at the proportionate part of the value
of its own capital shares-determined by comparing the
assets employed in business within the State with the
total assets wheresoever eihployed or located-- on which
the excise for the privilege of carrying on its business
within the State is imposed.
It is settled law that a State may lawfully impose upon
a foreign corporation a tax for the privilege of doing business within its borders which is measured by the proportionate part of its total gross receipts that are received
within the State, Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217, 228; or by the proportionate part of its total calpital
stock which is represented by the property located and
business transacted within the State, Hump Hairpin Co.
v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290, 293, American Mfg. Co. v.
St. Louis (C. C. A.), 8 F. (2d) 447, 450; or by the proportionate part of its total net income which is attributable to the business carried on within the State, Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113, 120,
Bass, etc. Ltd. v. Tax Comm., 266 U. S. 271, 282.
Here both the commissioner, the administrative officer
charged with the enforcement of the statute, and the
Massachusetts court, have found that the capital stocks
of the two subsidiary companies were employed by the
petitioner in carrying on its business within Massachusetts. We find no adequate reason for disturbing this conclusion. On the contrary, looking to the substance of the
transactions and not merely to form, we think that the
petitioner, through its ownership of the capital stock of
the -two subsidiary corporations and the control which it

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

thereby exercised over them, did, in a very real and practical sense, employ these stocks as an instrumentality in
carrying on its business within Massachusetts-to the extent, at least, that the controlled activities and property
of the subsidiary corporations were within the State. Cf.
Edwards v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456. And
since the Massachusetts court did not determine whether
the value of the stock in the Lawrence Company attributable to that part of its business and property in other
States should have been deducted, for the reason that, as
to such overvaluation, if any, a different statutory remedy
was provided, we have no occasion to consider that
question.
It is said that under the Massachusetts statute the subsidiary corporations were subject to similar excises on
their own account, and therefore there will be what is
akin to double taxation. But we are not here concerned
with an excise tax on the subsidiary corporations and
need not consider its constitutional propriety either independently or in connection with the excise against the
petitioner.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the effect
of the challenged judgment is to tax property beyond the
jurisdiction of Massachusetts, and that therefore it
should be reversed.

SISSETON AND WAHPETON BANDS OF SIOUX
INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 596. Argued April 27, 1928.-Decided May 28, 1928.
1. The Act of March 4, 1927, granting the appellants in this case one
year within which to "appeal," was intended to confer the right
of appeal as distinguished from the right to petition for certiorari
conferred by the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925. P. 427.

