OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

ceeds of his wrong. Circumstances will affect the conclusion, including in them the knowledge and the conduct
of the party charged. It would be unjust to charge an
infringer with the gross amount of his sales *ithout allowing him for the materials and labor that were necessary
to produce the things sold, but it does not follow that he
should be allowed what he paid for the chance to do what
he knew that he had no right to do. That is the position
of the Wrigley Company as we understand the findings
in the successive stages of this suit. 253 Fed. Rep. 914,
916. 275 Fed. Rep. 535, 537, 538. 5 F. (2d) 731, 739.
20 F. (2d) 830,. 831. Even if the only relief that the
Wrigley Company can get is a deduction from gross income when the amount of its liability is finally determined, the Larson Company will have to pay
a tax on
the Wrigley profits when it receives them, and in a case
of what has been found to have been one of conscious and
deliberate wrongdoing, we think it just that the further
deduction should not be allowed.
Decree as to allowance of federal taxes reversed.
KING MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. CITY

COUNCIL OF AUGUSTA

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 392. Argued March 12, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. In § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, as amended by Act of February
13, 1925, which gives this Court jurisdiction to review 'the judg-

ments of state courts of last resort. in any case " where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of any State on the ground of
its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of its validity," the
words "statute of any State" are used in their larger sense, including every act, legislative in character, to which the State gives its
sanction, no distinction being made between acts of the state legislature and other exertions of the State's law-making power. P. 102.

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

Opinion of the Court.

2. An ordinance of a city fixing rates for water power supplied from
a canal owned and maintained by the city, is a "statute" of the

State in this sense. P. 114.
3. In cases where contract obligations are said to have been impaired
by subseqdent legislation, contrary to the constitutional restriction,
the findings of 'state co urts as to the existence and obligations of

the contract are entitled'to respect but do not bind this Court.
Id.o
164 Ga. 306, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
sustaining the dismissal of a suit by the petitioner to
enjoin the enforcement of a city ordinance fixing rates for
water power.
Mr. Bryan Cumming for plaintiff in etror.
Mr. E. H. Gallaway, with whom Mr. Archibald Blackshear, City Attorney, was on the brief, for defendants in
error.

M . JusTicE VAw DBvAwTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit brought in a state court in Georgia to
restrain the enforcement of -an ordinance, of the City of
Augusta fixing rates for water power supplied* from a
banal owned and maintained by the city.' The plaintiff
is a manufacturing company which operates a mill adjacent to the canal with water power suipplied therefrom.
The objection urged 'agaiist the ordinance is that it is repugnant to the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States, and therefore invalid; in that- it impairs
the obligation of a prior contract whereby the city undertook to supply water power for the plaintiff's mill in perpetuity at a lower rate' than that fixed in the ordinance.
The court of first instance held the ordinance valid and
accordingly dismissed the suit. This was affirned by the
Supreme Court of the State, 164 Ga. 306; and the case is

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 t. S.

here on writ of error allowed by the Chief Justice of that
court.
Counsel on both sides treat the case as one which
rightly may be brought to this Court on writ of error,
but some members of the Court doubt that it is such a
case. Therefore this question will be given immediate
consideration.
The jurisdiction of this Court to review on writ of error
judgments or decrees of state courts of last resort is defined by § 237(a) of the Judicial Code, as set forth in
the amendatory act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat.
936. As there defined this jurisdiction extends to two
classes of cases(1) "where is drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of the United States, and the decision is
against its validity;"
(2) "where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of any State on the ground of its being repugnant
to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States,
and the decision is in favor of its validity."
Plainly the present case is. not within the first provision. Is it- within the second? This depends on the
sense in which the words "a statute of any State" are
used therein. If they are used as narrowly comprehending only an enactment of the state legislature, the case
is excluded; but if they are used as broadly comprehending any legislation proceeding from the law-making
agencies of the State, the case is included.
In usage "statute" is a term which has both a restricted and a broad signification. This is reflected in the
following excerpt from Bouvier's Law Dictionary, Rawle's
Revision:
"STATuTE.

A law established by the act of the legis-

lative power. An act of the legislature. The written
will of the legislature, solemnly expressed according to
the forms necessary to constitute it the law of the state.

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100"

Opinion of the Court.

"This word is used to designate- the written law in

contradistinction to the. unwritten law.

"Among the civilians, the term statute is generally ap-

plied to laws and.regulations of every sort; every.provision of law which ordains,- permits or prohibits anything
is' designated "astatute, without considering from what
source it arises."
'.
The Constitution of the United States does not use the
term "statute," but.it does employ the term " law," often
regarded as an equivalent, to describe an exertion of legislative power. Thus it is declared that a bill presented
in either house of Congress, if receiving prescribed favorable consideration, shall CCbecome a law," Art. I, § 7; that
Congress may "make all laws" necessary and proper for
carrying into execution various enumerated powers,
Art. I, § 8, c. 18; that no State " shall pass" any-"ex post
facto law or law impairing the obligation of contracts,''
Art. I, § 10, c1. 1; that no State "shall make or enforce
any law" abridging the. privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States, Fourteenth Amendment,
§ 1; that the Constitution, C laws " and treaties of the
United States shall be the supreme law of the land and
the judges in every State shall- be bound thereby, alnything in the Constitution or "Claws" of any State to the
contrary notwithstanding, Art. 6, ci. 2, and that the
judicial power of the United States shall extend, among
others; to all cases in law and equity arising under the
Constitution, "laws!' and treaties of the United States,

Art. 3, § 2.
It of course rests with each State to determine in what
form and by what agencies its legislative power may be
exerted. It may legislate little or much in its constitution,
may permit the electorate to make laws by direct vote,
may entrust its legislature with wide law-making ,functions and may delegate legislative authority to subordinate agencies, such as municipal councils and state com-

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1027. 277 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

missions. But whether this power be exerted in one form
or another, or by one agency or another, the enactments
put forth, whether called constitutional provisions, laws,
ordinances or orders, are in essence legislative acts of the
State; they express its will and have no force otherwise.
As respects their validity under the Constitution of the
United States all are on the same plane. If they contravene the restraints which that instrument places on the
legislative power of a State they are invalid, no matter
what their form or by what agency put forth; for, as this
Court has said, the protection which these restraints afford
applies, "whatever the form in which the legislative
power is exerted; that is, whether it be by a constitution,
an act of the legislature, or an act of any subordinate instrumentality of the State exercising delegated legislative
authority, like an ordinance of a municipality or an order
of a commission." Standard Scale Company v. Farrell,
249 U. S. 571, 577.
The jurisdictional provision we are considering is designed to be in aid of such protection. It proceeds on the
theory that through inadvertehce or design those who are
entrusted with the legislative power of-a State inay exercise the same in a manner forbidden by the Constitution
of the United States, and that the state courts may uphold
such legislation when it should be held invalid. Unlike
other state action, legislation consists of rules having continuing force and intended to be observed and applied in
the future; and this regardless of the state agency from
which it proceeds.
Were the question an open one, these considerations
would afford impelling reasons for holding that the jurisdictional provision uses the words "a statute of any
State" in their larger sense and is not intended to make a
distinction between acts of a state legislature and other
exertions of the State's law-making power, but rather to
include every act legislative in character to which the
-

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

105

Opinion of the Court;

State gives its sanction. But the question, is not an open
one; .it heretofore has been resolved-in keeping with the
yiew just*indicated.
-

. The jurisdictional provision originally was part of

§ 25

of the act of September 24, 1789, c; 20,, 1 Stat. 73,. 85,
which authorized -this Court to .review. on writ of error
judgments and decrees of state :c.ourts of last. resort in

cases-(1) "where is drawn in question the validity.of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision, isagainst their validity; ' . . .
,(2) "where is dfawnin question the validity Qf a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the
ground of their - being repugnant. to the Constitution,
treaties or laws of the United States and the -decision is in
favor of such their.validity;-"
" -"
(3) "where -is
drawn -in questi6n the construction of
any clause- of- the Constitution, or,of a treaty; or statute
of, or commission held under,; the. United States, and the
decision is against.the title, right,*privilege or commission
sp~ially.set up or claimed by. either paty under such
clause of said Constitution, treaty, statute orcomn~ission."
By the act of February 5i 1867, -c. 28, 14 Stat. 385, that
section was regnacted- --the first and. second provisions
without change and therthird to read as follows:. (3)- "where any title, right, privilege or immunity is
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of,
or commission held, or Authority. exercised under, the
United-States; and the decision is againstthe title, right,
privilege", or immunity specially set up or claimed by either
paity under such Constitution,. treaty, statute,- commission, or "authority."
The three provisions-the third as so amended-were
carried into §-709 of the Revised Statutes-of 1873 and into
§ 237 of the Judicial. Code of 191-1. By the actz'of September.6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, the hird provision was
-

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

eliminated so far as a review on writ of error is concerned;
and by the act of February 13, 1925, supra, the first and
second provisions were amended by omitting from both
the words "or an authority exercised under" and with
that change were regnacted in § 237(a).
In order that the second provision-the material one in
this case-and the change made therein may be accurately
in mind we now quote the provision in both its original
and its amended form[Act 1789] "where is drawn in question the validity of
a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State
on the ground of their being repugnaAt to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the
States, and the decision is in favor of its validity."
[Act 1925] " Where is drawn in question the validity of
a statute of any State on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treatibs or laws of the United
States, and'the decision is in favor of its validity."
It will be seen that the phrase "a statute of any State"
has been in the provision from the time of its original
enactment, and that this phrase was retained in the reenactment of 1925 ,ithout change or qualification. So, its
meaning before the regnactment is.
its meaning now.
Before coming to decided cases which we deem relevant
it is well to refer to some which, although cited as in
point, appear to us not to be so. Weston v. Charleston,
2 Pet. 449 and Home Insurance Company v. Augusta,
93 U. S. 116, are examples. The first is a case where a
tax ordinance of Charleston was sustained by the state
court over the objection that it was in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. This Court's jurisdiction was invoked, and was by it sustained, p. 463, on the
ground that the city's action in adopting the ordinance
was the "exercise of an authority" under the State.
Whether the ordinance was a statute of the State was
not. considered. The other case also involved a municipal

KING MFG. CO. b.AUGUSTA.
100

Opinion of the Court.

-

ordinance which' the state court had upheld 6gainst the
contention that "itwas in conflict with the contract clause
of the Constitution. This Court took jurisdictioil, p. 121,
on he'gxurids' (a) that the validity of an authority exercised under the State -was in -question and (b) that a
right claimed under the Constitution-was denied. There
was no negation of other grounds.
Wifliams v. Biuffy, 96 U. S. 176, is the first case'in
which the phras ' a statute of any State" in the jurisdictional provision was considered and construed. There
a debt arising on contract and bwing by a citizen of Virginia to citizens of Pennsylvania had been sequestrated
during the Civil War undefan enactment df the Confederate States and collected from the debtor by that Government. • After the war the creditors brought a suit against
the debtor's- administrator in a state court in Virginia to
collect the debt. The defendant interposed pleas setting
up the sequestration and collectioii under thfe confederate
enactment. Judgment went*fdr the defendant on these
pleas over the plaintiffs' objection -that the -confederate
enactment was invalid under the- Constitution; and the
Supreme

-Court

of Appeals sustained that ruling. The

case was brought -to this Court on writ of error, its jurisdiction being invoked on the grounds that the -case was
one (a) where the validity of both a statute of the State
and an huthority under the-State was drawn "inquestion
as repugnant to the Constitution and wa sustained, and
(b) where a right, privilege and -immunity claimed under
the Constitution was denied. The jurisdiction was contested, but was sustained expresslyon "both-" grounds in
a considered 'opinion by Mr.' Justice Field, sijeaking for
entire Court. In sustainingthe first ground he said pp.
182-183:

....

"The pleas aver that a confederation was formed by
Virginia and other States, called the Confederate States
of America.; and that under a law of :this confederation,

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

2771U. S.

enforced in Virginia., tSe debt due to the plaintiffs, was
sequestrated. Now, the Constitution of the United.States
prohibits any treaty, alliance, or confederation by one
State with another. The organization whose enactment
is pleaded cannot, therefore, be regardedin this Court as
hc.ving any legal existence. It follows .that whatever
efficacy the enactment possessed in Virginia must be
attributed to the sanctiongiven to it by that State. Any
enactment from whatever source originating, to which a
State gives the force of law is a statute of the State,
within the meaning of the clause cited relating to the
jurisdiction of this Court. It would be a narrow construction to limit the term to such enactment; as have
gone through various stages of consideration by the legislature. There rnay be many acts authorized by the constitution of a'State, or by the conyention that framed it,
which have not been. submitted to the consideration of
its legislature, yet have. all the efficacy of laws. By the
only authority which can be recognized as having any
legal existence, that, is, the State of Virginia, this act of
the unauthorized confederation was enforced as a law of
the Commonwealth. Its validity was drawn in question
on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States; and the decision of the court below
was in favor of its validity."
Ford v. Surget, 97 U. S. 594, is much like the case just
cited. The plaintiff sued in a state court in Mississippi to
recover for cotton belonging to him which the defendant
had destroyed in that State during the Civil War in
obedience to an enactment of the Confederate States.
By special pleas the defendant set up that enactment
in justification of the trespass; and the plaintiff insisted
by demurrers that the enactment was contrary to. the
Constitution. The demurrers were overruled and judgment was given for the defendant, which the Supreme
Court affirmed. The case was brought to this Court by

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

Opinion of the Court.

-*rit of error. The jurisdiction, although contested, was
sustained in an opinion of Mr. Justice Harlan. He
quoted with approval the above extract from Williams v.
Bruffy, and added,-p. 603:
-:,
"The general orders of the state court overruling the
demurrers must-be accepted,. in*every essential sense, as
an adjudication in favor of the validity of an act of the
confederate congress, recognized and enforced as law in
Mississippii and which: act, according to the rule laid
down in.
that case, must be,. therefore, regarded -by us as
a.statute 6f that State, within: the meaning -of the provisions of the act declaring'the appellate jurisdicfion of
this court. -Itresults that we have power to review the
final -judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi."
Stevens v. Griffith, 11 U S. 48, is a case where the
Supreme Court of Tennessee had given effect to an.enactment of the Confederate States. This Court there said,
after reciting its ruling in Williams v. iBruffy, p..51:.
"So, in this case the Confederate 'enactment, under
which the confiscation of" the money was had, can be
treated only as a statute of Tennessee; by whose sanction
it was enforced as a law of.,that State."'

-

New Orleans Waterworks Co.: v. Louisiana Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S. 18, is a case wherein this- Court was
asked on writ of. error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court -of Louisiana.giving effect- to -a ordinance
of New Orleans against the contention that it impaired
the obligation of a contract.,-. The opinion was by Mr.
Justice Gray. After stating that, -to be within- the contract clause of the Constitution, the impairment must be
"by a law of the State,". nd that this Court "has no
jurisdiction to review a judgment of the highest court of
a State, on the ground that the obligation of a contract
has been impaired, unless some legislative act of the
State has been upheld, by the judgment sought .to-be reviewed," and after quoting with approval the statement

110

OCTOBER TERT\,

1027.

Opinion of the Court.

277 U, S

in Williams v. Bruffy---"Any enactment, from whatever
source originating, to which a State gives the force of law,
is a statute of th State, within the meaning of the clause
cited relating to the jurisdiction of this Court," he said,
p. 31:
"So a by-law or ordinance of a municipal corporation
may be such an exercise of legislative power delegated
by the legislature to the corporation as a political subdivision of the State, having all the force of law within
the limits of the municipality, that it may properly be
considered as a law, within the meaning of this article of
the Constitution of the United States."
In North American Storage Co. v. Chicago, 211 U. S.
306, which came to this Court from a Circuit Court of the
United States, the question was presented whether a
municipal ordinance was state action within the clause in
the Fourteenth Amendment prohibiting"' "any State"
from denying due process or equal protection. The
Court said, p. 313:
"In this case the ordinance in question is to be regatded as in effect a statute of the State, adopted under
a power granted by the state legislature, and hence it is
an act of the State within the Fourteenth Amendment."
The construction which was put on the phrase "a
statute of any .State" in the jurisdictional provision by
the decisions in Williams v. Bruffy, Ford v. Surget and
Stevens v. Griffith did not stop with those cases, but has
been approvingly followed and applied in later cases.
In Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.
548, this Court was asked to review on writ of error a
judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina giving
effect to a municipal ordinance over the objection that it
was invalid under the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Justice Pitney, speaking for the entire court, sustained its jurisdiction and on that point said, p. 555:

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100
Opinion of the Court:
."A municipal by-law or ordinance, enacted by virtue of
power for that purpose delegated by the legislature of the
State, is a state law witlin the meaning of the Federal
Constitution. [Citing.cases.]
"And any enactment, from whatever source originating,
to which a State gives: the force of law, is a statute of the
State, within the meaning of the pertinent clause of § 709,
Rev. Stat.; Judicial Code, § 237; -which confers- jurisdiction on this court. Wiilms v. Brtffy, 96 U. S. 176,
183."

Reinmam v. Little Rock, 237 U. S.171, came here from
the Supreme Court of Arkansas on writ of error. The
sole question involved was the validity of a municipal
ordinance which the state court had sustained against
the objection that it was in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States. Mr. Justice Pitney again speaking
for the entire court said, p. 176:
"The decision of the state court of last resort is conclusive upon the point that the ordinance under consideration is within the scope of the powers conferred by
the state legislature upon the city council of Little Rock.
It must therefore be tieated, for the purposes of our
jurisdiction, as an act of legislation proceeding from the
law-making power of the State; for a municipal ordinance
passed under authority delegated by'the legislature is a
state law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution; and any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives the force of law, is a statute
of the State within the meaning of Judicial Code, § 237,
which confers jurisdiction upon this court. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Goldsboro; 232 U. S. 548, 555, and cases
cited."
Zucht v. King, 260 UT. S..174, was brought here on writ of
error solely on the ground that the state court had upheld a municipal ordinance* against the contention that

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

it was invalid under the Constitution of the United States.
This Court dealt with the initial question of jurisdiction
as follows, p. 176:
"The validity of the ordinances -under the Federal
Constitution was drawn in question by objections properly
taken below. A city ordinance is'a law of the State within
the meaning of § 237 of the Judicial Code as amended,
which provides a review by writ of error where the validity
of a law is sustained by the highest court of the State
in which a decision in the suit could be had. Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co.v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548, 555."
Further applying the ruling in Williams v. Br ffy this
Court repeatedly has held that an order of a state coramission made in the exercise of delegated legislative
authority is a statute of the State in the sense of the
jurisdictional provision. Excerpts from some of the
cases-all brought here from state courts on. writs of
error-will suffice to show the course of decision.
"Such an order, being legislative in its nature and made
by an instrumentality of the State, is a state law within
the meaning of the Constitution of United States and the
laws of Congress regulating our jurisdiction.' Lake Erie
& Western R. R. Co.v. Public Utilities Commission,, 249
U. S. 422, 424.
"The validity of the order prescribing the rates was
directly challenged on constitutional grounds, and it was
held valid by the highest court of the State. The prescribing of rates is a legislative act. The commission is
an instrumentality. of the State,- exercieing delegated
powers. Its order is of the same force as would be a
like enactment by the legislature. If, as alleged, the prescribed rates are confiscatory, the order is void. Plaintiff
in error is entitled to bring the case here on writ of error
and to have that question decided by this Court. The
motion to dismiss will be denied." Bluefield Waterworks
& Improvement Co. v. Public Service Commission, 262

KING IFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.

100

Opinion of. the Court.

U. S. 679, 683, specifically followed and applied in Northern PacificRy. Co. v. Department of Public Works,, 268

U. S. 39, 42.
: "The cause is here upon writ of error. Considering
the circumstances di4closed by the record we .have no
jurisdiction unless it affirmatively appears that -in ihe
court below there was.duly- drawn in question the validity
of a statute or an .authority exercised under the State
because of repugnance to the Constitution, treaties or laws
of the United States. Jud. Code, § 237, as amended Sept.
6, 1916. Under repeated rulings here, for jurisdictional
purposes the order of the Commission -must be treated
as though an Act of the Legislature." Live Oak Water
UsersAssn v. R. R. Commission, 269 U. S. 354, 356.
"The authority of the Dock Commissioner and the Sinking Fund trustees, under.the Act of 1871 [they exercised
delegated legislative power],.is such ,as to make the plan
and the refusal equivalent, to a statute of the State, and,
assuming that it is in conflict with the grant and covenants of relators' deeds, it is a law of-the State. impairing
a contract obligation under 10, Article I, of the Federal
Constitution.. [Citing New Orleans Waterworks Co. v.
Louisiana Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S. 18; Williams v.
Bruffy 96 U: 9..176, 183; and other cases.] We have
jurisdietion of the writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial
Code." * Appelby v. Delaney, 271 U. S. 403, 409.
A like view of an order, legislhtive in nature, of a state
commission has bebh taken in other related cas6s. Granl
Think Western Ry. Co. v. Railroad Cbmmission ,221 U. S.
400, 403; Louisville and Nashville R. B. Co. v. Cdin'tt,
231 U. S., 298, 318; Arkadelphia Millin# Co. v. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 141; Oklahoma
Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290, 292.'
In no case" has the phrase "a statute of- any State"
in the jurisdictional provision been c'nstriied otheri-ise
than as shown in the foregoing review.. With its use else-

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

where--especially in connections indicative of its use in
a different sense-we are not now concerned.
It is said that the act of February 13, 1925, which
amended the jurisdictional provision was enacted with
the purpose of contracting the 'obligatory jurisdiction of
this Court. We recognize that there was such'a purpose
and that effect should be given to it. But the act dealt
with several jurisdictional provisions, including those relating to cases coming to this Court from the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, the District Courts, the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and the Court of Claims.
It shows that the purpose was to cut down and change
our jurisdiction in particular respects and to leave it as
before in others. We are concerned here with a particular jurisdiction, as to which there was no cutting down or
change. The terms whereby it was defined in the original
provision were retained, and thus it was left as before."
We accordingly hold that the ordinance in question is a
statute of the State within the meaning of the jurisdictional provision, and therefore that this case is-rightly here
on writ of error.* So we turn to the merits.
The adoption and terms of the ordinance are not in dispute. Nor is it questioned that the city became obligated
long before the ordinance to supply water power from its
canal for the plaintiff's mill. But it is questioned that
there was any engagement for a designated price or rate
in perpetuity. Both courts below found for the city on
this point. That finding is entitled to respect, but is not
conclusive; for it rests with this Court in cases like this,
where contract obligations are said to have been impaired
by subsequent legislation contrary to the constitutional
restriction, to determine whether there was a contract and
what obligations arose from it. St. Paul Gas Light Corn*Followed in Sprout v. South Bend and Nectow v. Cambridge,
decided this day, post, pp. 163, 183.

KING IFG. :0. v. AUGUSTA.
100

B ,xn=s and HoLrns, JJ., dissenting.

panryv. St. Paul,.181 U. S. 142,147; Appleby v. New York,
271 U. S. 364, 379-380. It is admitted that there was here
no formal contract. But it is insisted that a-contract arose
from conversations and correspondence between representatives of the plaintiff and officers of the city, and that
it included an engagement for a designated price.,or rate
in perpetuity. The proofs have been considered. It
would serve no purpose to review them in this opinion.
We think they fal.short of showing any engagement respecting the rate, other than that it was to be the established rate for users in general. The rate had been fixed
by ordinance when the plaintiff obtained the right to have
water power supplied to its mill, but there was, as we construe the proofs, no engagement that that rate should continue indefinitely; The city may be.under a duty to supply the power at a reasonable rate [See Millers v. Augusta,
63 Ga. 772], but that question is not in this case. The
plaintiff's objection is confined to the asserted impairment
.
of a prior contract.
Judgment affirmed.

.MR. JUSTIC.

(with whom MR. JusTIcE
HoLImms concurs), dissenting.
BRANDEis

I think that the.writ of error should be dismissed. The
judgment below was entered after the effective date of the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937, 942.
That Act struck from § 237 of the Judicial Code the words
"or an authority exercised under any State." I The, section as so amended limits the right of .review by writ of
error to cases where the highest court of a State has denied
the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States, or
has affirmed the validity of a statute of a State, challenged
as repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
1

The Act of 1925 also struck out the words "or an authority exercised under the United States."

-

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDBIB

and HoLWEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

United States. Other cases can be reviewed only if this
Court,-in the exercise of its discretion, grants a writ of
certiorari. Here the challenge was to the validity of an
ordinance of a city. I cannot believe that if Congress had
intended to maintain our jurisdiction to review judgments
sustiining such ordinances on writ of error, it would not
have found clearer language in which to express its
purpose.
The question before us is the interpretation, not of the
word "laws," used in the Constitution, but the narrower
term "statute," employed in the Judiciary Act of 1789,
c. 20, §25, 1 Stat. 73, 85. And our task is to construe, not
the single word "statute," but the phrase "statute of any
State." Laws or regulations adopted by a municipality
are called, in common speech, either ordinances or bylaws, not "statutes." 2 In some connections, rules established by an institution are referred to as statutes. Thus,
the rules adopted by a university or its founder are sometimes spoken of as statutes of the university. But no one
would call them statutes of the State under whose law the
university is incorporated. Nor would any one, in refer2

These are the terms employed in the charters of American cities

and towns both before and since the adoption of the Constitution.
They have been continuously employed apparently by all text-writers
on municipal corporations and government. "Local laws of a municipal corporation, duly enacted by the proper authorities, prescribing general, uniform and permanent rules of conduct, relating to the
corporate affairs of the municipality, are, in this country, generally
designated as ordinances. 'By-laws' or 'bye-laws' was the original
designation." McQuillin, Municipal Ordinances, § 1; 2 McQuillin,
Municipal Corporations, § 632. "The result of legislative action by
a municipal council or assembly is a local law usually denomnmated
an ordinance." 2 Abbott, Municipal Corporations, § 514. See also
Dillon, Municipal Corporations, 1 ed., p. 270; Munro, Municipal
Government and Administration, p. 209; Reed, Municipal Government, p. 173. No instance has been found where such writers have

used the word "statutes" in referring to municipal ordinances.

KING MAfFG. CO. V'.AUGUSTA.
100

Bnmwsss aund Homs, XJ., dissenting.

ring to the laws or regulations adopted by municipal or
other corporations, speak -of them as "statutes of the
State." Has the phrase as originally used in § 25 of the
Judiciary Act of September-4, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73i 85,
and as regnacted in § 2 of the Act of February 5, 1867,
c. 28, 14 Stat. 385, 386, in § 709 of the-Revised Statutes,
in § 237 of the Judicial Code, and fibially in the Act of
1925, acquired a different, conventional, meaning so that
it must be held to include municipal ordinances?
Our jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court
sustaining the validity of a municipal ordinance alleged
to be repugnant to the Federal Constitution, was firkt invoked 7n Weston v. City Council of Charleston,2 Pet. 449,
463-464. Section 25 of the Judiciai-y Act* f 1789, which
was then in force without amendment, authorized a review by writ of error in any case "where is'drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an uthority exercised
under any State, on the ground of their being repugnant
to the constitution, treaties or laws of the United States,
and the decision is in favor of such their validity, or. where
is drawn in question the construction of any claiise of The
constit tion, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission
held under the United States, and the decision is against
the title, right, privilege or exemption specially set up or
claimed by either party, under such clause of the said
Constitution, treaty, statute or commission.. The jurisdiction having been questioned,. becaiise of the nature of
the proceeding, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall took occasion
to specify the clause of § 25 .on which he conceived the
jurisdiction to rest:
"In this case the city ordinance of Charleston is the
exercise of an 'authority under the State of South Carolina,' 'the validity of which has been drawn in question
on the ground of its being repugnant to the onstitution,'
and' the decision is in favor of its validity'."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BR&Nms and HoiwEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

The jurisdiction then declared -was exercised, without
question, in the cases involving municipal ordinances that
came before the Court during the next half century 3 In
1876 the subject was carefully reconsidered in Home Insurance Co. v. City Council of Augusta, 93 1. S. 116, 121.
After stating the possible bases of jurisdiction under § 709
of the Revised Statutes, the Court said:
"Here there was drawn in question the authority exercised by the city council under the State in passing the
ordinance imposing the tax complained of. The question
raised was as to its repugnancy to the Constitution of the
United States; and the decision was in favor of the validity of the authority so exercised. A right was also claimed
under the Constitution of the United States. The decision
was adverse to the claim. The case is, therefore, within
two of the categories we have stated. The jurisdictional
objection cannot be maintained."
The Court would hardly have omitted to say that review
might also have been had by virtue of the "statute"
clause if it had been of opinion that a municipal ordinance
could be properly so described.
The second of the categories mentioned in Home Insurance Co. v. City Council of Augusta, was eliminated,
so far as the right to review by writ of error was concerned,
by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, § 2, 39 Stat. 726.
In cases where the showing was merely that a title, right,
privilege or immunity guaranteed by the Constitution had
been claimed and denied, that Act provided that there
could be no review except by certiorari. But as it left unchanged the clause irearding the validity of an authority,
on which Mr. Chief Justice Marshall had based the power
of this Court to review judgments sustaining municipal
ordinances, our jurisdiction over such judgments remained
unaffected. When, in 1925, the "authority" clause was
3

Waring v. The Mayor, 8 Wall. 110; Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall.
123; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wail. 479; Cannon v. New Orleans, 20
Wal. 577. Compare Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 245-246.

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

BRANDEIS

and HoLmEs, -JJ., dissenting.

struck from § 237 of the Judicial Code and our-jurisdiction
on writ of error under that section was limited to cases
involving the validity of-a statute, Congress .cannot have
been unaware of the difference, for jurisdictional purposes,
between a statute of - State and a municipal: ordinance.
For attention had been called to the difference by num-'
erous decisions under several jurisdictional acts-the most
recent being'of wide public interest.
The Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557,
§ 17 of which was embodied in the Judicial Code-as § 266,
declared that "no interlocutory injuniction suspending or
restraining the' enforcement, .opera.tion, or execution of
any statute of a State by restraining, the action of any
officer of such State in the enforcement or execution of
such statute" should issue: except upon a hearing before
three judges 'as there piovided An unbroken line of decisions, beginning, in 1911, has' held Ihat a municipal
6rdinance is not a statute within the meaning df that section. Sperry & Hutchinson, Ca. v. City of Tacoma, 190
Fed. 682; CumberlandTelephone & Telegraph Co. v. City
of Memphis, 198 Fed:.955; Birmingham Water Works Co.
v. City of Birmingham, 211 Fed. 497, affirmed, 213 Fed.
450; Calhoun v. City of Seattle, 215 Fed. 226; City Of Des
Moines v. Des Moines Gas' Co., 264 Fed. 506; City 'of
Dallas v. Dallas Telephone Co., 272 Fed., 410. 'See also
Land Developmeit Co. v. City of.New Orleans,13 F. (2d)
898, reversed on the merits, 17 F. (2d) 1016. -The principal.ground of these decisions, namely, "that the natural
mdaning of 'statute of a state' is-a statute or law directly
passed by the Legislature:'f the state; 'and the natural
meaning of' any officer of such stAet " is an officer whose
authority extends'throughout the state, and is not limited
to a small district," .(198 Fed. 955, 957). is, of course,.
equally applicable to § 237 of the Judicial Code. It cannot have been unknown to Congress. The construction
had already been established when the Act of March 4,
1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013, amended § 266 so -as to make

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRAimEIS and HOLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

it clearly applicable to suits to enjoin the orders of a state
commission." The amending Act inserted after the words
"in the enforcement or execution of such statute," the
words "or in the enforcement or execution of an order
made by an administrative board or commission acting
under and pursuant to the statutes of such State." Congress did not include in the amendment any reference to
municipal ordinances. The fact that it did not is significantY
the debate in the Senate at the preceding session, 48 Cong.
Rec. 8120-8123. The House Committee on the Judiciary was "of
the opinion that the statute should be broadened, so as to prevent
this kind of interference (i. e., by a single judge) with State officials
who are performing their duties under the provisions of 'a statute
enacted by the legislature of a State." House Report, 62d Cong.,
3d Sess., No. 1584, p. 2.
r. Clayton, who was in charge of the bill
in the House, said that its purpose.was "to put the order of a State
railroad commission upon an equality with a -statute of a State; in
other words, to give the same force and effect to the order of a State
railroad commission fixing rates as is accorded under existing law to
a State statute." 49 Cong. Rec. 4773.
5This Court has not passed expressly on the construction to be
given § 266 in this respect. Until amended by the Act of February
13, 1925, § 266 did not require the presence of three judges at the
final hearing; and 'on appeal to this Court from the final decree the
propriety of the action of the single judge in granting or denying a
temporary injunction was-not strictly in issue. Shaffer v. Carter,
252 U. S. 37, 44. - But if this Court had doubted the power of a District Judge to act in such cases, it would hardly have mentioned without comment the fact that such a judge had granted or 'denied a
temporary injunction. This it -has done in a number of cases. See
4See

United Railroadsv. San Francisco,249 U. S. 517, 519; Southern Iowa
Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 541;. Galveston Electric Co.
v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388, 390; Paducah v. Paducah Ry. Co., 261
U. S. 267, 271; St. Cloud Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S.

352, 355. Since-the effective date of the Act of 1925, this Court has
decided, on certiorari to Circuit Courts of Appeals, a number of cases
in which an application for a temporary injunction against the enforcement of a municipal ordinance had been heard before, and the
final decree rendered by, a single district judge. See Hammond v.

KING-.mr0F . CO. v.A UUSTA.
I00

BRANDuIS" and HorLms, JJ.,

121

dissenting.

Prior to the Act of. 1925,-the difference, for-purposes
of appellate review, between a'statute and a law enacted
by a subordinate legislative body, had been called to the
attention of Congress also, by -the cases which settled
that the enaetnients- of, the lgislatures and other lawmaking .bpdies pf the territories and of the District of
C.olumbia. are not statutes of. theKnited States within
the meaning- oftrlegislation governing.1the jurisdiction of
this Court. 'ithe.question appears to have arisen first-under the Act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, §-.2,. 23. Stat. 443.
:The phraseology of this statute was similar to that of
§ 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ancf this Court has
always recognized that decisions under, it and its later
regnactfnents are. authoritative with regarditd the conIt permitt6
struction of § 237 of the Judlcil Code
,chappi Bus Line, 275 11 S..164;'Hammond v. Farina Bus Line &
Transport ion Co., 275 U. S: 173; Delaware,Lackawanna & Western
R.R.Co. v. Morristown,276 U. S. 182. If a municipal ordinance had
been a statute withi § 266, the decrees of the district judges in these
cases would have been void fbi want of jurisdiction.
0
See Ireland v. Woods, 46 U-. S.323, 328, citing afid following
Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 T.S. 445, 451; Erie R. 1.7Co.
v. .Hamiton,248 -U.S: 369, 372, citing and following :Baltimorai&
.Potomrao I. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, Districtof Columbia
v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227, and United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S.280,
285; Jett Bros. Distilling.Co. v. City of Carrollton, 252 U. 5. 1, 6,
citing and following-Baltimore & PotomacR..R. Co. v. Hopkins; 130
U. S. 210, and'ChampionLumber Co.'-v.iFisher,227 U. S.'445, 450,
76, 81,'citing and following
451; Schaff'v. Famech6n Co.; 258 .U. ,S.
Baltimore.& Potomac B. B. Co. v; Hopkins, 130:U. S. 210; Zucht v.
King, 260 U; S. 174, 177, citing and following Taylor v. Taft, 203

U. 5.461, aii Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S.445; 4ancaster v. MbCa'a y, 267 U. S. 427, 40,- citing and.f6llowing Champion
'Lutizber Co. v. Fisher,227 U. S.445, 451.' The%ignifieane of deCisiofis'under the Act of 1885.is-confirme'd by'the legislative history of
th&Act, which shows, as seemed probable from its lanudge,.that tlie
provision with respect to, " a treaty or statute -of oK an authority
exercised under, the United States," was derived, like, § 237 of the
Judicial Code, frb~m § 25 of the'Judiciiry Act of 1789. See 16 Cong.
RPc. 67-671.'

-

'

.

.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANmis and HoLms,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

review of any judgment of -theSupreme *Courtof a Territory or of the District of Columbia where "is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under the United States." Thereafter, that
provision, as modified by the Act creating the Court of
Appeals for the District, February 9, 1893, -c. 74, § 8, 27
Stat. 434, 436; District Code, § 233, 31 Stat. 1189; 1227,
governed our appellate jurisdiction over the highest courts
of the continental territories, (other than Alaska): and of
the District until the enactment of the Judicial Code, in
which it was embodied as § 245 and, with important
'changes, as § 250. That our appellate jurisdiction over
judgments involving the validity of acts of territorial
legislatures and of the legislative body of the District,
depended on the clause in the Act of 1885 allowing such
review where the validity of an authority exercised under
the United States had been challenged, was indicated in
Maricopa'&Phoenix R. 1. Co. v. Arizona, 156 U. S. 347,
350-351, and Parsonsv. District of Columbia, 170 U. S.
45, 49-50. The subject was fully discussed in more recent opinions. Thus, in McLean v. Denver & Rio Grande
R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 47-48, our jurisdiction to review
a judgment of the Supreme Court of New Mexico upholding the validity of a territorial law was sustained on
the ground that "the validity of an authority exercised
under the United States in the passage and enforcement
of the law is directly challenged, and the case does involve the validity of an authority exercised under the
power derived from the United States." The right to
review on appeal a judgment. involving the validity of
an ordinance or regulation of the District of Columbia
was rested upon the same ground in Smoot v. Heyl, 227
U. S. 518, 522, although the statute authorizing the District Commissioners to make regulations provided that
they should "have the same force and effect within the
District of Columbia as if enacted by Congress." Act

KING MFG. CO. v. -AUGUSTA.
100

123

BRANmis and.HonEs, JJ., dissenting.

of June 14, 1878, c. 194, 20 Stat. 131. See -also Walker
v.Gish, 260 U. S. 447,449.
A similar ruling was made in Board of Public Utility
Commissioners v. Manila Electric R. R. Co., 249 U. S.
262, where this Court dismissed an appeal and a writ of
error to review, under § 248 of the Judicial Code, a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands.
That section, until am.ended by the Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, 727,.authorlzed review by writ
of error or appeal, of a judgment of the highest court of
the Philippine Islands where either the validity or the
construction- of a statute of the United States was involved. Reavis v. Fianza, 215 U. S. 16, 21-22;- Gsell v.
Insular Collector, 239 U. S. .93, 94-96. The Railroad
challenged an order of- the Commissioners purporting to
be made in execution of an Act of the Philippine Commission authorizing-the city of Manila to grant a franchise
ordinance passed under the powers thereby granted. This
Court dismissed--the appeal- and writ of error for want
of jurisdiction, iecessarily holding "that the mnere construction by the' court of the:.'franchise ordinance,
and its consequent ruling that the duty did not rest on
the Railroad Company to give the free transportation
which the ordeks of the Commissioners had directed to be
given" did not involve either'- the construction or the
validity of a statute of the United States.
Obviously, the statutes of, territorial legislatures, the
regulations of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and the Philippine statutes and ordinances bear a
relation -to acts of Congress that is wholly comparable
to that borne. by municipal ordinances to the statutes
passed by the legislature -of a State. Congress cannot
have intendedthat in the Act of 1925, the phrase "statute
of any State" should be read as including municipal ordinances within a State while, under like circumstances, the
phrase "statute of the United States" does not include

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
BRA 'i s and Hoims, JJ., dissenting.

277 I. S.

the ordinances of the District of Columbia, even where

the enabling act provides that the ordinances shall have
the same force ds if enacted by the Congress of the United
States.
Moreover, if municipal ordinances are deemed to be
statutes of a State within the meaning of § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, legislative orders of state commissions,
boards, and officials must be also. Prior to the Act of
1925, judgments sustaining the validity of such orders
were reviewable on writ of error as fully as judgments
sustaining the validity of states and ordinances. Between
the effective date of the Act of 1916 and that of the Act
of 1925, this Court wrote opinions in 21 cases in which a
judgment of the highest court of a State involving the
validity of an order of a commission was reviewed on
writ of error.7 In none of the opinions was it stated that
jurisdiction existed because an order is a statute of a
State.8 On the other hand, in Lancasterv. McCarty, 267
7

In Live Oak Water Users Assoaciaion v. Railroad Commission, 269
U. S. 354, the Court, while asserting its jurisdiction over judgments
sustaining such orders, 6ismissed a writ of error, as the judgment
below rested on adequate non-federal grounds.
8
The jurisdiction was first challenged in Bluefield Water Works-&
"ImprovementGo. v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S. 679. The
Court said at p. 683: "The prescribing of rates is a legislative act..
The commission is an instrumentality of the State, exercising delegated
powers. Its order is of the same forde as would be a like enactment
by the legislature. If, as alleged, the prescribed rates are confiscatory, the order is void. Plaintiff in error is entitled to bring the case
here on writ of error and to have that question decided by this
Court." In Northern Pacific Ry. Co.v. Department of Public Works,
268 .U.S. 39, 42, jurisdiction was assumed on the authority of the
Bluefield case. In Live Oak Water Users Association v. Railroad
Commission, 269 U. S. 354, 356, the Court said that "for jurisdictional purposes the order of the Commission must be treated as
though an Act of the Legislature." This was said, of 'course, with
reference to the situation under the Act of 1916, for the .judgment
under review was entered October 23, 1923.

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

BRANDEis

and HoLmES, JJ., dissenting.

U. S. 427, 430, where our jurisdiction was invoked to review, on writ of error, the judgment of a state court deny-

ing the validity of an order, of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, the jurisdiction-was sustained on the ground
that the order "is an authority exercised under the -United
States which by the contention of the shippers was drawn
in question, and its validity denied by the state court."
Can it be that, while our pbwer to review on writ of error
a judgment of a state court denying the validity of an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission rested
on the "authority" clause, our power to review a judgment sustaining the validity of an order of a, state -com-

mission did not?'

I ..-

The difference between a statute and an ordinance for

purposes" of appellate -review-a difference which rests
wholly on expediency-had-been acted upon by Congress
half a. century earlier, when it undertook to deal with the
congestion of business in this Court by regulating the
-9 Since the effective date of the Act of 1925, no judgmdni of a state
court has been reviewed by this Court on writ of error, where the sole
claim was that a commission order was unconstitutional. In the following cases, governed by the Act of 1925, in which this Court-reviewed on' writ- of error a judgment of a state court sustaining the
validity of a commission order, the validity of the underlying statute
as -well as of the order was attacked: Frost & Frost -Trucking Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 271 U. S. 583; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 272 U. S. 605;- Mler Lumber Co.
v. Floyd, 273 U. S. 672 (Per Curiaifi); Fox River PaperCo. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S. 651; Piercev. Barker, 274 U. S. 718"(Per
Curiam); Stimson Lumber Co. v. Kuykendall, 275 U. S. 207; International Great NoithernR. R. Co. v. RailroadCommission, 275U. S.
503 (Per Curiam): In Chicago; Milwaukee &- St. Paul Ry. Co. v.
Public Utilities Commission, 274 U. S. 344, and in Aetna Insurance
Co. v. Hide, 275 U. S. 440, the rdview was by cbrtiorarl. In Aetna
Insuran=e'o.v;Baker, 276 U. S. 628, certiorari was denied. Compare
Phillips v. Oklahoma; 274 U. S. 721 (Per Curiam); Phillips v. Oklahoma, 275 U. S: 489 (Per Curiam) ; Missouri v. Public Service Commission, 275 U, S. 489 (Per Curiam).

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDEIS

and HoIEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U.S.

priority of hearings in revenue cases. Act of June 30,
1870, c. 181, 16 Stat. 176; Davenport City v. Dows,.15
Wall. 390, 3920 It was reaffirmed when Congress, in
1925, withdrew the right to a direct appeal from the District Court in cases involving the validity of municipal
ordinances, though allowing such an appeal in certain
cases involving the validity of statutes and orders of commissions. On the other hand, the essential identity
of
statutes, ordinances, and orders, where the question concerns substantive rights, has always been recognized.
Since all regulations established by competent authority
are laws, the comprehensive term "laws" has been used
when it was desired to include all forms of legislative action. 1 Thus, as the enactments of a subordinate body
exercising legislative authority are a part of the laws of a
State, an ordinance or an order is a law within the meaning of the contract clause and is state action within the
prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment. North
10

Mr.Chief Justice Chase explained whyr the Act should be construed as applying only to statutes and not to municipal ordinances:
"This preference is given, plainly enough, because of the presumed
importance of such cases to the administration and internal welfare
of the States, and because of their dignity as equal members of the
Union. The reasons for preference do not apply to municipal corporations, more than to railroad and many other corporations."
p. 392.
11 Inprocedural matters-which, like jurisdiction, rest upon considerations of expedieny-the difference between statutes and ordinances has been observed, in some instances even when in the legislation the more comprehensive term "laws" was used. Such was
the case in Davenport City v. Dows, supra, Again, while municipal
ordinances are "laws of the several states" within the meaning of
§ 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 92, and § 721 of the
Revised Statutes, they will not be judicially noticed in the federal
courts; for "an ordinance is not a public statute, but a mere municipal regulation." Robinson v. Denver Tramway Co., 164 Fed.
174, 176. Compare Garlich v. N'orthern Pacific Ry. Co., 131 Fed.
837, 839; Ch~octaw, 0. & G. R. R. Co. v. Hamilton, 182 Fed. 117, 121.

KING M\FG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

BnANDis

and

HoLMEs,

JJ., dissenting.-

American Cold Storage Co. v. Chicago, 211 V. S. 306, 313;

Grand Trunk By. Co. v. Railroad Commission,.221 U. S.
400, 403; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 162-163; Lake
Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission,
249 U. S. 422, 424; StandardScale Co. v. Farrell,249 U. S.
571, 577. For, as this Coart has pointed out in New
Orleans Water Works Co. v; LouisianaSugar Refining Co.,
125 U. S. 18, 30, 31; "it is not strictly and literally true,
that a law of a State, in order to come within the cbnstitutional prohibition, must be either iii the form of a statute
enacted by the legislature in the ordinary course of legislation, or in the form of a constituition established by the
people of the State as their fundamental law." ' Prior to the Act of 1925, final judgments of a district or
circuit court involving the ,onstitutional validity of a
municipal ordinance could be brought directly to this
Court by writ of error or appeal under..§ 5 of the Court of
Appeals Act, Act of March 3, 1891, c..517, 26 Stat. 826,
827-828, and § 238 of the Judicial Code, because such review was authorized "in any ,case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States," and "in any case in which the constitution or law
of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Con.
stitution of the United States:" Davis & FarnumManufacturing Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 216;
Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 230 U. S. 84, 90;
see StandardScale Co. v. Farrell,249 U. S. 571; 577. - Arid
likewise a case involving the constitutional validity of an
_121t was on this statement of Mr. Justice Gray's that the Court
relied in North American Cold Storage Co. v. Chicago, 211 U. S. 306,
313, where it answered a contention that a bill alleging only municipal
legislative action. presented no constitutional question sufficient to
sustain the jurisdiction of the circuit courit, by saying: "In this case
the ordinance in question is th be regarded as in effect a statute of
the State, adopted under a power 'granted it by the state legislature,
and hence it is an act of the State within the Fourteenth Amendment."

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDEIS and HOLwES,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

ordinance could be brought here on writ of error to or on
appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals if the jurisdiction of the district or circuit court had been. invoked in
part on constitutional grounds. City of Vicksburg v.
tenson, 231 U. S. 259, 267. But in 1925 Congress
amended § 238 so as to confine the right to a direct appeal
in cases involving the validity of state action to those
which fell within the provisions of § 266--provisions
which had already been construed as not including municipal ordinances. Unless the, phrase " statute of any
State" as used in §§ 237(a) and 240(b) of the Judicial
Code as amended, includes ,municipal ordinances, no case
from any lower court involving only the validity of a.
municipal ordinance can now be reviewed by this Court
otherwise than upon certiorari.
When it is borne in mind that the severe limitastions
upon the right of review by this Court imposed by the
Act of 1925 were made solely because the increase of the
Court's business compelled, the reasons why Congress
should have taken away the right to a review by writ of
error to the highest court of a sta.te in cases involving the
validity of ordinances, while leaving unaffected the right
in cases involving the validity of statutes, becomes clear.
There are only 48 States. In 1920 there were 924 municipalities in the United States of more than 8,000 inhabitants.23 The validity of ordinances of even smaller
municipalities had come to this Court for adjudication. 4
'1 Fourteenth Census of the United States (1920), vol. I, table 27.
14 See, e. g., Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Wabash R. R.
Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; Wilson v. Eureka City, 173 7U. S. 32;
Skaneateles Water Co. v. Skaneateles, 184 U. S. 354; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419; Williams v. Talladega, 226
U. S. 404; Pierce Oil Corporationv. Hope, 248 U. S. 498. In Village
of Terrace Park v. Errett, 273 U. S. 710, and Village of University
Heights v. Cleveland Jewish Orphans Home, 275 U. S. 569, the Court
denied petitions for certiorari in cases where Circuit Courts of Ap-

KING MFG. -CO. v. AUGUSTA.

100

BRANDEIS and

HoLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

The increasingly complex. conditions of urban life have
led, as this Court noted in Village of Euclid v. Ambler
Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, 386-387; to a corresponding increase in municipal police -legislation. Recently, two
classes of munibipal ordinances, new in character-those
relating to zoning and those relating to motor-vehicleshad become the subject of many controversies. The
constitutionality of these ordinances can. rarely be determined simply.by applying a general rule.. The Court
must consider the:ffect of the ordinance as applied. As
the validity of the particular ordinance depends ordinarily
upon special .facts, 5 these must be. examined whenever
there is jurisdiction. - Dahnke-Walker"Milling Co. - v.
Bondurant, 257U. S. 282. - Though no burdensome factual inquiry is involv~d-the controversy may 6ften be of
trifling significance, hiin the case aX bhr. Thus, persuasive reasons existed ivhy Congress should have denied, in
1925, review by writ of error in cases which involved only
the validity of a municipal ordinance.
If, by striking out from § 237 of the Judicial.Code the
clause "or an authority exercised under any State,"
Congress did not exclude from review by writ of error
cases involviiig the validity.-bf municipal ordinances and
commission orders, it wholly failed to accomplish what*
in view of the statements made to it in regard to the
peals had held the zoning ordinances of small suburban districts to be
unconstitutional as applied to the respondents. If ordinances are
statutes of a State, these cases could have been brought here by writ
of error under § 240(b). %InGorieb v. Fox, 274 U. S.- 603, a judgment of a state court sustaining a zoning ordinance was reviewed by
certiorari. Compare Township of Maplewood v. Margolis, 276 U. S.
617, certiorari denied; Nectow v. City of Cambridge, post, p. 183.
'

The Court has noted this dependence with respect both to zoning

ordinances and to bus regulations. See Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co.,
272 U. S. 365, 395; Hammond v. SchappiBus Line, 275 U. S. 164,170.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANnEIS and HoLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

effect of the amendment," must be deemed to have been
its purpose in so amending the section. That is, to relieve this Court, in many cases, of the burden of obligatory review. For, other than these, there had been considered by this Court, in the nine years between the effective dates of the Jurisdictional Acts of 1916 and 1925,
and decided with opinions, not more than eight cases involving the validity of an authority exercised under a
State or under the United States.Y7 On the other hand the
forty cases in which judgments of state courts sustaining
municipal ordinances or commission orders had been reviewed on writ of error, had entailed a burden out of all
proportion to their number. The evidence introduced to
establish the facts in cases involving the validity either
of orders or of municipal ordinances is often both volum16 See Hearing before a Subcommittee of the Committee on the
Judiciary of the United States Senate, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., on
S.2060, p. 35; Hearing before the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., on H=.R. 8206, p. 13.
17
In only three cases in which opinions were written, aside from
those involving municipal ordinances and commission orders, does
jurisdiction appear to have been exercised under the clause in the
Act of 1916 allowing a writ of error in cases where the validity of an
authority exercised uhdet a State has been challenged and sustained:
Schwab v. Richardson; 263 U. S.88; Love v. Gffi"th, 266 U. S. 32;
Appieby v. Delaney, 271 U. "S.403. Possibly, under the view announced by the Court, even such state, action as was involved in these
cases amounts to "a statute of a state!' In five cases jurisdiction
seems to have been based on the clause allowing a writ of error where
the validity of an authority exercised under the United States has
been denied: American Ezpresa Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617;
Northern-Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135; Dakota
Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163; Davis v.
Newton Coal Co., 267 U. S.292; Lancasterv. McCarty, 267 U. S.427.
The first and the last of this group concerned orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission which, presumably, must be held to be statutes of the United States if the orders of state commissions are
statutes of a state. Perhaps the other three as well were statutes of
the United States under the view now taken by the Court.

KING MFG. CO. v. AUGUSTA.
100

BRANEis -and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

inous and conflicting.18 Condensation of the evidence is
not required, as in cases coming from the lower federal
courts. See Equity Rule 75 (b), 226 U. S. Appendix 23;
Rule 7 (2), 266 U. S.657-658. Compare BarberAsphalt
Paving.Co. v. StandardAsphalt & Rubber Co., 275 U. S.
372. - Although the evidence is often conflicting, findings
of fact are not required. Compare Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179;
Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co. v. Lincoln, 223 -U. S.
349, 364; City of Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275
U. S:'164, 171. 'Congress must have had the threatening
volume and the heavy burden of this litigation in mind
when it struck from § 237 of the Judicial Code the words
"or an authority exercised under any State."
From the decision of Weston v. City Council of Charlestom, 2 Pet. 449, 463-464, in which Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall rested the jurisdiction of this Court to. review
the judgments of state courts involving the validity of
municipal ordinances upon the clause ".or an authority
exercised under any State," to the passage of the Act, of
1925, ninety-six years elapsed. During that period the
Court wrote opinions in a multitude of cases in which
that specific jurisdiction was exercised. In only two of
them has there -been found any statement that the jurisdiction could be sustained on the ground-that a municipal ordinance is a statute of a State,..ithin the meaning
of § 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 or its later reenact18 Thus, in Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. V. Public Service Cor-.
mission, 262 U.S. 276, the record was 685 pages in length. In Bluefield Wter Works & Improvement Co.v. PublicService Commissidm,
262 U. S. 679, the record extended over 1398 pages. The record in
Northern,Pacific Ry. Co. v..Department of Public Works, 268 U. S.

39, contained 1131 pages in addition to numerous exhibits. In Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 2Z5 U. S. 164, and Hammond v. Farina
Bus Line & TransportationCo., 275 U. S. 173, the Court found itself

compelled to remand to the District Court in order for that court to
make proper findings of fact.

132

OCTOBER TERI,
BRANDIS

1927.

and HoLxEs, JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

ments. These two opinions were written at successive
terms by the same member of the Court.. Atlantic Coast
Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 555; Rein,man v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171, 176. Anexamination
of the record and briefs in the two cases seems to make
it clear that the statements were obiter and were made
inadvertently. No question of the jurisdiction of this
Court under § 237 of the Judicial Code was raised or
discussed by counsel in either case; and this Court could
not, under the legislation then in force, have entertained
a doubt as to the existence of the jurisdiction. Neither
opinion of the Court refers to Weston v. City Council of
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 463-464, or to Home Insurance
Co. v. City Council of Augusta, 93 U. S. 116, 121-the
cases which, on full consideration, had settled that the
basis of our jurisdiction was the clause relating to the
validity of an authority. Neither refers to McLean v.
Denver & Rio GrandeR. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 47-48, or
to Smoont v. Heyl, 227 U. S. 518, 522-the cases which
had recently confirmed that ruling. There was obviously
no intention to overrule these cases.
The only authority cited in support of the statement
in the Goldsboro and Little Rock cases, Williams v. Brwffy,
96 U. S. 176 183, furnishes no basis for them. That case
involved an act of-the Congress of the Confederate Statesa body whose legislation would obviously be described
in common speech as "statutes." It was conceded that
the particular act was a "statute." The question was
whether it was a statute "of any State." 1 9 The Court
19That

the sole question discussed was whether the act of the Congress of the Confederate States was an act of "any State" appears
from the briefs on file in the office of the Clerk. See Supplemental
Brief of Enoch Totten for the Plaintiff in Error, pp. 10-11; Brief of
Henry W. Garnett for the Defendant in Error, p. 3; Brief of William

A. Maury, as amicus curiae,pp. 4, 5,7. The question was thus stated
by Mr. Maury on p. 5 of his brief: "Upon what ground, then, can it

.9

"1

KING MFG. CO. v.. AUGUSTA.
100

BRANDIS

and HOVmS; JJ., d&senting.

held that since- the enactment had been given the force of
law in Virginia, it was" as much the action of that State
as if it had been originally passed by an authorized legislative body. In being. so adopted by Virginia the enactment clearly did. not lose the quality which it had had
from its inception, namely, that of being a "statute." It
was in this connection that Mr. Justice Field said: "Any
enactment, from -whatever source originating, .to which a
State gives the for e of law is a statute of the State,
within the meaning of the clause cited relating to the
jurisdiction of this court." This language was used with
reference to the acts of an' irregular legislative body whose
enactments would be commonly. described as "statutes."
It had no reference to the acts of a regular legislative
body whose enactments would never be characterized as
statutes, in ordinary speech. That Mr. Jifstice Field
would not so have applied it, is clear. For in the term of
Court preceding that: in which Williams v. Brtffy was
decided, he had"participated in the decision-in Home In-.
surance Co. v. City Counci7-of Augusta;93 U. S. 116, 121,
in whi6h the Court had pfainly indicated that a municipal ordinance was not a "statute of any State."
The dicta concerning our jurisliction in Atlantic Coast
Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, and in Reinman v. Little
be maintained that*a statute of, or authority exercised under, the
hostile de facto Government of Virginia was the statute of or authority of a State, in the sense-of the law which is this Court's commission
to take cognizance of appeals from the state tribunals? (5. How.,
Scott vs. Jones)." The case cited by Mr. Maury 5 How. 343, 376,
held that the statutes of.an unorganized political body were not statutes "of a State" within. the meaning of § 25 of the Judiciary Act,
although. that-body later became a State. In Miners Bank v. Iowa,
12 How. 1, a territorial statute was held not to be a statute "of a
State' within § 25, though'.the Territory had since become a State.
The language in Fordv. Surget, 97 U. S. 594, 603, 604, and Stevens.v.
Griffith, III U. S. 48, 50, also makes clear the exact point of the
decision in Wiliams v. Bruffy.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDxis and

HoL.ES,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S

Rock, have never been repeated in any later case dealing
with municipal ordinances, even where the decisions in the
two cases have been relied upon. Some care seems to have
been taken not to repeat the expression that a municipal
ordinance was a statute of a State. See Thomas Cusack
Co. v. Chicago, 242 'U. S. 526, 529; Zucht v. King, 260
U. S. 174, 176. To construe the phrase "statute of any
State" as applying to a municipal ordinance disregards the
common and appropriate use of the words; ignores decisions which for nearly a century have governed our jurisdiction to review judgments of state courts sustaining the
validity of such ordinances; and tends to defeat the general purpose of the Act of 1925 "to relieve this Court by

limiting further the absolute right to a review by it."
Moore v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 272 U. S.317,321; Smith
v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388, 390.2 It completely frustrates
the particular purpose which Congress must have had in
striking from § 237 the clause " or an authority exercised
under any state." 2 1 The trival character -of the substan2o Much weight was giveii to this purpose in construing earlier acts

reducmg our jurisdiction. Compare McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661,
666; Rbbinson. v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359, 362; American Sugar Refiling Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 281, all construifig the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826;
American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.
491, 495, construing § 250 of the-Judicial Code; Inter-Island Steam
Navigation Co., Ltd., v. Ward, 242 U. S. 1, construing § 246 of the
Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38
Stat. 803.
2
1 Since the effective date of the -Act of 1925, judgments of state
courts sustaining the validity of municipal ordinances have been reviewed on writ of error in a number of cases. Beery v. Houghton,
273 U. S. 671 (Per Curiam); Ohio ex rel. Clarke v. Declebach, 274
U. S. 392; Angelo v. Winston-Salem, 274 U. S. 725 (Per' Curiam);
Bloecher & Schaaf v. Baltimore, 275 U. S. 490 (Per Curiam); Kresge
Co. v. Dayton, 275 U. S. 505 (Per Curiam). Compare Natchez v.
McNeely, 275 U. S. 502 (Per Curiam). But in none of'them did

SULTAN RY. CO. v. DEPT. OF LABOR.
100

Syllabus.

tive question presented by this case-in which a writ of
certiorari, if applied for, would plainly not have been
granted-illustrates the wisdom of Congress in limiting
our jurisdiction on writ of error.
SULTAN RAILWAY & TIMBER COMPANY v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIES OF
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON ET AL.
ECLIPSE MILL COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO 1HE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 274 and 275. Argued March 5, 1928.---Decided May 14, 1928.
1. An order of a state bureau requiring a manufacturer to report the
number and wages of employees, and to pay premiums or assessments into the state workmen's compensation fund out of which
injured employees are compensated, is a "statute" of the State
within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237 (a). King Mfg. Co.. v.
Augusta, ante, p. 100. P. 136.
2. Employment on a navigable river in assembling saw 'logs there
in booms for towage elsewhere for sale, and the breaking up of
booms which have been towed on such a river to a saw mill and
the guiding of the logs to a conveyor extending into the river ^by
which they are drawn into the mill for sawing, is employment of
a local character having only an incidental relation to navigation
and commerce, and the rights and obligations of the employees
and their employers arising from ifijuries suffered by the former
may be regulated by the local compensation law. P. 137.
141 Wash. 172, affirmed.
counsel question the jurisdiction of this Court, or call to our attention the significance of the amendment of § 237 made by the Act of
1925. It is well settled that the exercise of jurisdiction under such
circumstances is not to be deemed a precedent wheni the 'question is
finally brought before us for determination. United States v. More,
3 Cranch, 159, 172; Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 354; Cross
v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 86; Louisv7e Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.
225, 236; Arant v. Lane, 245 U. S. 166, 169.

