NECTOW v. CAMBRIDGE.
172

Argument for Defendants in Error.

War, it thereby consented that the United States should
be sued in the special proceeding in equity devised long
before to control the Commission's execution of its regular functions in enforcing the Interstate Commerce Act.
Affirmed.

NECTOW v. CITY OF CAMBRIDGE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 509.

Argued April 19, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

The inclusion of private land in a residential district under a zoning
ordinance, with resulting inhibition of its use for business and
industrial buildings to the serious damage of the owner, violates the
Fourteenth Amendment if the health, safety, convenience or general
welfare of the part of the city affected will not be promoted thereby.

P. 188.
260 Mass. 441, reversed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts which dismissed a bill brought in that
court by Neatow for a mandatory injunction directing the
city and its building inspector to passupon an application to erect any lawful buildings upon his land without
regard to an ordinance including it within a restricted
residential district.
ERROR

Messrs. Judson Hannigan and John E. Hannigan for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Peter J. Nelligan, with whom Messrs. J. Edward
Nally and Joseph P. Lyons were on the-brief, for defendants in error.
The master does not find any unreasonable or arbitrary
use of power or abuse of discretion on the part of the City
Council in passing the zoning ordinance. Reinman v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

277 U. S.

Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Albion v. Toledo, 99 Oh. St.
416; Jardine v. Pasadena,199 Cal. 64.
The ordinance will be sustained in its application to the
plaintiff's land if it tends to promote the health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants.
Zahn and Ross v. Board of Public Works, 195 Cal. 497;
Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526.
The preservation of the residential district to the west
and north of the locus from the intrusion of business and
incongruous commercial buildings is sufficient justification
for the placing of the plaintiff's land in a residential zone.
Miller v. Board of Public Works, 195 Cal. 477.
The principles justifying the establishment of residential zones, apply with equal force to the preserving of
these zones once established. Welch v. Swasey, 193 Mass.
364; Wulfsolin v. Burden, 281 N. Y. 288.
The action of the city government in placing the plaintiff's land in a residential district was a reasonable use of
its discretion. Stillman v. Lynch, 56 Utah 540; Inspector
of Buildings v. Stoklosa, 250 Mass. 52; Dobbins v. Los
Angeles, 195 U. S. 223..
It was necessary for the City Council to draw a line
of demarcation between the thickly settled district lying
to the west, northwest, and north of plaintiff's land, and
the mercantile district lying to the south, southeast, and
east. Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Village of
Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365.
It would appear reasonable that the City Council
should draw this line through the plaintiff's land so as
to preserve the residential character of Brookline Street
north of the Ford factory and the residential character
of Henry Street along the frontage of the locus upon said
street. The fact that the inclusion of the plaintiff in
error's property in R-3 district rather than in a business zone depreciates its value, is not of controlling significance. Spector v. Building Inspector, 250 Mass. 63.

NECTOW v. CAMBRIDGE.
183-

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff, has suffered no greater disadvantage than
may be suffered by any- person whose land -is on the
border line between, a business and a residential district.
.Ifthe ordinance, as applied to the plaintiff's land, is nullified, the owners of residential property opposite, would
have no protection from damages caused by the erection
of such commercial or manufacturing buildings as plaintiff may see fit to construct. Village of Eizclid v. Ambler
Realty Co., 272 U.S; 365.
There is no finding that the land in question, taken
with the adjoining land of the plaintiff, could not be
used profitably for residential or other purposes. Jardine
v. Pasadena,199 Cal. 64.
The qiestion resolves itself into one of reasonableness.
The Court should not substitute its opinion for that of
the Legislature or City Council. Cusack Co. v. Chicago,
242 U. S. 526; Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. -171;
Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365.
MR. JusTic, SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A zoning ordinance of the City of Cambridge divides
the city into three kinds of districts: residential, business
and unrestricted. Each of these districts is sub-classified
in respect of the kind of buildings which may be erected.
Thp ordinance is afn elaborate one, and of the same general
character as that considered by this Court in Euclid v.
Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365. In its general scope it is
conceded to be constitutional withinrthat decision. The
land of plaintiff in error was pk in district R-3, in which
are permitted only dwellings, hotels, clubs, churches,
schools, philanthropic- institutions, greenhouses and gardening,"with customary incidental accessories. The attack upon the ordinance is that, as specifically applied to
plaintiff in error, it deptived him of his property without
due process of- law in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The suit was for a mandatory injunction directing the
city and its inspector of buildings to pass upon an application of the plaintiff in error for a permit to erect any
lawful buildings upon a tract of land without regard to
the provisions of the ordinance including such tract within
a residential district. The case was referred to a master
to make and report findings of fact. After a view of the
premises and the surrounding territory, and a hearing, the
master made and reported his findings. The case came
on to be heard by a justice of the court, who, after confirming the master's report, reported the case for the
determination of the full court. Upon consideration, that
court sustained the ordinance as applied to plaintiff in
error, and dismissed the bill. 260 Mass. 441.
A condensed statement of facts, taken from the master's
report, is all that is necessary. When the zoning ordinance was enacted, plaintiff in error was and still is the
owner of a tract of land containing 140,000 square feet,
of which the locus here in question is a part. The locus
contains about 29,000 square feet, with a frontage on
Brookline street, lying west, of 304.75 feet, on Henry
street, lying north, of 100 feet, on the other land of the
plaintiff in error, lying east, of 264 feet, and on land of
the Ford Motor Company, lying southerly, of 75 feet.
The territory lying east and south is unrestricted. The
lands beyond Henry street to the north and beydnd
Brookline street to the west are within a restricted residential district. The effect of the zoning is to separate
from the west end of plaintiff in error's tract a strip 100
feet in width. The Ford Motor Company has a large
aut6 assembling factory south of the locus; and a soap
fabtory and the tracks of the Boston & Albany Railroad
lie near. Opposite the locus, on Brookline street, and
included in the same district, there are some residences;
and opposite the locus, on Henry street, and in the same
district, are other residences. The locus is now vacant,

NECTOW v. CAMBRIDGE.
183

Opinion of the Court.

although it was once occupied by a mansion house. Before the passage of the ordinance in question, plaintiff in
error had outstanding a contract for the sale of the greater
part of his entire tract of land for the sum of $63,000.
Because of the zoning restrictions, the purchaser refused
to comply with the contract. Under the ordinance, business and industry of all sorts are excluded from the locus,
while the remainder of the tract is unrestricted. "It further appears that provision has been made for widening
Brookline street, the effect of which, if carried out, will
be to reduce the depth of the locus to 65 feet. After .a
statement at length of further facts, the master finds
"that no practical use can be made of the land in question for residential purposes, because among other reasons
herein related, there would not be adequate return on the
amount of any investment for the development of the
property." The last finding of the master is:
"I am satisfied that the districting of the plaintiff's
land in a residence district would not promote the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants
of that part of the defendant City, taking into account
the natural development thereof and the character of the
district and the resulting benefit to accrue to,the whole
City and I so find."
It is made pretty clear that because of the industrial
and railroad purposes to which the immediately adjoining lands to the south and east have been devoted and
for which they are zoned, the locus is of comparatively
little value for the limited uses permitted by the
ordinance.
We quite agree with the opinion expressed below that
a court should not set aside the determination of public
officers in such a matter unless it is clear that their action
"has no foundation in reason and is a mere arbitrary or
irrational exercise of power having no substantial relation to the public health, the public morals, the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

safety or the public welfare in its proper sense." Euclid
v.Ambler Co., supra, p. 395.
An inspection of a plat of the city upon which the zoning districts are outlined, taken in connection with the
master's findings, shows with reasonable certainty that
the inclusion of the locus in question is not indispensable
to the general plan. The boundary line of the residential
district before reaching the locus runs for some distance
along the streets, and to exclude the locus from the residential district requires only that such line shall be continued 100 feet further along Henry street and thence
south along Brookline street. There does not appear to
be any reason why this should not be done. Nevertheless, if that were all, we should not be warranted in substituting our judgment for that of the zoning authorities
primarily charged with the duty and responsibility of determining the question. Zahn v. Bd. of Public Works,
274 U. S. 325, 328, and cases cited. But that is not all.
The governmental power to interfere by zoning regulations with the general rights of the land owner by restricting the character of his use, is not unlimited, and
other questions aside, such restriction cannot be imposed
if it does not bear a substantial relation to the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Euclid'v.
Ambler Co., supra, p. 395. Here, the express finding of
the master, already quoted, confirmed by the court below,
is that the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the part of the city affected
will not be promoted by the disposition made by the
ordinance of the locus in question. This finding of the
master, after a hearing and an inspection of the entire
area affected, supported, as we think it is, by other findings of fact, is determinative of the case. That the invasion of the property of plaintiff in error was serious and
highly injurious is clearly established; and, since a neces-

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
183

Syllabus.

sary basis for the support of that invasion is wanting, the
action of the zoning authorities comes within the ban of
the Fourteenth Amendment and cannot be sustained.
Jud'ment reversed.

SPRINGER ET AL. v. GOVERNMENT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
AGONCILLO v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME) COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
Nos. 564 and 573.

Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. Acts of the Philippine Legislature creating a coal company and
a bank, the stock of which is largely owned by the Philippine
government, provide that the power to vote the stock shall be
vested in a "Committee," in the one case, and in a "Board of
Control," in the other, each consisting of the Governor General, the
President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Held, that the voting of the stock in the election
of directors and managing agents of the corporations is an executive function, and that the attempt to repose it in the legislative
officers named violates the Philippine Organic Act. P. 199.
2. In the Philippine Organic Act, which divides the government into
three departments--legislative, executive, and judicial-the principle is implicit,- as it is in 'state and federal constitutions, that
these three powers shall be forever separate and distinct from
each other. P. 201.
3. This separation and the consequent exclusive character of the
powers conferred upon each of the three departments of the government, is basic and vital-not merely a matter of governmental
mechanism. Id.
4. It may be stated as a general rule inherent in the American
constitutional system, that, unless otherwise expressly provided
or incidental to the powers conferred, the legislature cannot exercise either executive or*judicial power; the executive cannot exercise either legislative or judicial power; and the judiciary cannot
exercise either executive or legislative power. Id.

