SULTAN RY. CO. v. DEPT. OF LABOR.
100

Syllabus.

tive question presented by this case-in which a writ of
certiorari, if applied for, would plainly not have been
granted-illustrates the wisdom of Congress in limiting
our jurisdiction on writ of error.
SULTAN RAILWAY & TIMBER COMPANY v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIES OF
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON ET AL.
ECLIPSE MILL COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO 1HE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 274 and 275. Argued March 5, 1928.---Decided May 14, 1928.
1. An order of a state bureau requiring a manufacturer to report the
number and wages of employees, and to pay premiums or assessments into the state workmen's compensation fund out of which
injured employees are compensated, is a "statute" of the State
within the meaning of Jud. Code, ยง 237 (a). King Mfg. Co.. v.
Augusta, ante, p. 100. P. 136.
2. Employment on a navigable river in assembling saw 'logs there
in booms for towage elsewhere for sale, and the breaking up of
booms which have been towed on such a river to a saw mill and
the guiding of the logs to a conveyor extending into the river ^by
which they are drawn into the mill for sawing, is employment of
a local character having only an incidental relation to navigation
and commerce, and the rights and obligations of the employees
and their employers arising from ifijuries suffered by the former
may be regulated by the local compensation law. P. 137.
141 Wash. 172, affirmed.
counsel question the jurisdiction of this Court, or call to our attention the significance of the amendment of ยง 237 made by the Act of
1925. It is well settled that the exercise of jurisdiction under such
circumstances is not to be deemed a precedent wheni the 'question is
finally brought before us for determination. United States v. More,
3 Cranch, 159, 172; Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 354; Cross
v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 86; Louisv7e Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.
225, 236; Arant v. Lane, 245 U. S. 166, 169.

136

OCTOBPR TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

ERRoR to judgments of the Supreme Court of Washington, affirming judgments which upheld an order of the
respondent,-requiring the petitioners to make reports and
deposits under the State Workmen's Compensation Law.
Mr. Frederic E. Fuller, with whom Messrs. James W.
McBurney and John H. O'Brie were on the brief, submitted for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Mark H. Wight, with whom Mr. John H. Dunbar
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.JusTIcm VAN DEvA.TER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These suits present the same questions, were heard together and may be disposed of in one opinion, as they
were below.
They were brought to restrain the enforcement of an
order, legislative in character, made by a state bureauthe objection to the order being that it is repugnant to
the Constitution and laws of the United States in that it
impinges on the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of
the United States. The order was upheld by the trial
court and by the Supreme Court of the State, 141 Washington 172. The cases are here on writs of error sued out
under ยง 237(a) of the Judicial Code.
The order is a statute of the State within the meaning
of that section, and therefore our jurisdiction is invoked
in the right mode. John P. King Manufacturing Co.v.
Augusta, ante, p. 100, and cases there cited.
The order requires each of the plaintiffs from time to
time to report the number of men employed by it in the
-work about to be described; together with the wages paid
to them, and to pay into the State's workmen's compensation fund, out of which injured employees are compensated, premiums or assessments based on such wages.

SULTAN RY. C0:-v. DEPT. OF LABOR.
135:

137

BRANDEIS and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

The plaintiff in one suit'is conducting logging operations, a part of which consists in putting sawlogs -into

booms, after they have been thrown into a navigable river,
so that they conveniently may be towed elsewhere for
sale. The men are employed in the.booming work. The
plaintiff in the other suit conducts a gaw mill on the bank
of a navigable river,- Logs-are towed in booms to a point
adjacent to the mill and then anchored. The booms
afterwards are taken apart and the logs are guided to a
conveyor extending into the river and then drawn into
the mill for sawing. The. men are employed in taking
apart the booms and guiding the logs to the conveyor. -In
both instances the place of work is-on navigable waterin one it is done before actual -transportation begins and
in the other after the transportation is completed.'It is settled by our decisions that where the employ:
ment, although maritime in character, pertains to local
matters, having only. an incidental relation to navigation
and commerce,. the rights, obligations and liabilities of the
parties, as -between themselves,.may be regulated by local
rules which do not work material prejudice to'the characteristic features of the general maritime law or interfere
with its uniformity. Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohde,
257"U. S. 469; Millers' Indeiity Uienbritersv. Braud,
270 U. S. 59; Alaska Packers Association v. Industrial
Accident Comm'ission,276 U. S. 467.
We think the order in question as applied to the situations disclosed comes within that rule.
-

-Judgments
.

affirmed.

MR. JusTicE BnAmis.

For reasons stated in.
John -P;Ki4 -Manufacturing(o.
v. City Council of Augusta, ante;; p. 100, At. - JusTicE
HoLEs and I think "thatthe its6f- error in these cases
also should be dismissed. Treating these writs of error as

138

OCTOBER TERM,: 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

petitions for certiorari (see Gaines v. Washington, ante,
p. 81), we think that the petitions should be denied. The
trivial character of the questions presented illustrates
again the wisdom of not granting, in cases involving the
orders of administrative boards, a review as of rightwith its attendant right to oral argument. It is true that
each of these cases presents a question involving the Federal Constitution. But in both the controlling principle
is well settled, and the question presented is simply
whether on the particular facts it is applicable. Obviously such a question is of no general importance. The
number of administrative boards, state and municipal,
with- like power to issue orders is now very large. Each
board issues many orders. And each order may, by its
application to varying facts, give rise to many distinct
constitutional questions. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282.
HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE TERMINAL & NAVIGATION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
ATLAS LINE STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 3, 4, 5. Argued April 25, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Under the Trading With the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, ยง 2,
property in this country owned by a domestic corporation was nonenemy property even though an enemy owned all of its stock.
P. 140.
2. Where property of a domestic corporation whose stock was enemyowned was taken over during the war and the compensation fixed by
the President was paid, interest on the sum paid is not recoverable
from time of taking to time of payment, in the absence of anything
showing that due allowance for the delay was not made in fixing
the compensation. P. 141.

