COFFIN BROTHERS v. BENNETT.
Statement of the Case.

27

erty lying within the State and subject to a paramount
lien for taxes, the occupant actually using it may be made
personally liable. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Kentucky,
218 U. S. 551, 562. Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10,
16. But here the property is not within the State, does
not belong to the petitioner and is not within her possession or control. The assessment is a bare proposition
to make the petitioner pay upon an interest to which
she is a stranger. This cannot be done. See Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co. v. Doughton, 272 U. S. 567, 575.
Judgment reversed.

COFFIN BROTHERS & COMPANY

ET AL. V.

BENNETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 465. Argued April 17, 1928.-Decided April 30, 1928.
1. The law in Georgia by which the Superintendent of Banks may
issue executions against stockholders of insolven banks who, after
notice from him, neglect to pay assessments on their stock, and
which makes such executions liens on their property from date of
issuance, is consistent with due process of law, since the stockholders are given opportunity to raise and try in court every
possible defense by filing affidavits of illegality. P. 31.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment is not concerned with the mere form
of the state procedure. Id.
3. If the debtor does not demand a trial, the execution does not need
the sanction of a judgment. Id.
4. The stockholders, by becoming such, assumed the liability imposed
by the statute. Id.
164 Ga. 350, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
which affirmed a judgment sustaining a demurrer to a
petition seeking to enjoin Bennett, the Superintendent
of Banks, from issuing executions to collect assessments
made on stockholders of a bank.
ERROR

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Messrs. G. Y. Harrell and R. S. Wimberly submitted
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Orville A. Park, with whom Mr. Carl N. Davie was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In July, 1926, the Richland State Bank, organized
under the laws of the State of Georgia, closed its doors
and turned its affairs over to the defendant in error, the
Superintendent of Banks for the State. In the following
September the Superintendent issued a notice to each
of the plaintiffs in error that an assessment of 100 per
centum on the par value of his stock was levied, as necessary to pay the depositors in full. These proceedings
were under and in accordance with the Banking Act of
Georgia, of 1919, as amended in 1925, codified in 12
Park's Annotated Code, ยง 2268(t). That section provides that if any stockholder notified shall neglect to pay
the assessment the Superintendent shall issue an execution for the amount, to be enforced like other executions,
"provided, however, that any stockholder shall have the
right by affidavit of illegality, as in cases of affidavits of
illegality to other executions, to contest his liability for
such assessment and the amount and necessity thereof."
In that case the affidavit and execution ar6 to be returned
to court for trial. The execution is made "a lien on all
.property of the defendant subject to levy and sale for the
amount which shall be adjudged to be due thereon from
the date of the issuance thereof by the Superintendent."
The plaintiffs in error filed a petition in equity to enjoin
the Superintendent from taking the next statutory steps,
on the ground that the section was contrary to the

COFFIN BROTHERS v. BENNETT.
29

Opinion of the Court.

Fourteenth Amendment by denying to them due process
of law. A general demurrer was sustained by the trial
Court and by the Supreme Court of the State. 164
Ga. 350.
The objection urged by the plaintiffs in error seems
to be that this section purports to authorize an execution
and the creation of a lien at the beginning, before and
without any judicial proceeding. But the stockholders
are allowed to raise and try every possible defense by an
affidavit of illegality, which, as said by the Supreme
Court of Georgia, makes the so called execution' a mode
only of commencing against them suits to enforce their
statutory liability to depositors.' A reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present the defence is given and
if a defence is presented the execution is the result of a
trial in Court. The Fourteenth Amendment is not concerned with the form. Missouri ex rel. Hurwitz v. North,
271 U. S.40, 42. The fact that the execution is issued
in the first instance by an agent of the State but not from
a Court, followed as it is by personal notice and a right
to take the case into court, is a familiar method in Georgia and is open to no objection. Martin v. Bennett, 291
Fed. Rep. 626, .630, 631. If the debtor does not demand
a trial the execution does not need the sanction of a judgment, (see Murray v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co.,
18 How. 272); the plaintiffs in error by becoming stockholders had assumed the liability on which they are to
be held. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S.516, 529.
As to the lien, nothing is more common than to allow
parties alleging themselves to be creditors to establish
in advance by attachment a lien dependent for its effect
upon the result of the suit. We see nothing in this case
that requires further argument to show that the decision
below was right.
Judgment affirmed.

