UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
226

229

Argument for the United States.

instructions to determine this question and take further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion. See Cole v.

Ralph, 252 U. S. 286, 290; Gerdes v. Lustgarten,266 U. S.
321, 327.
Reversed and remanded.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 723. Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. A criminal contempt, committed by violation of an injunction
decreed by a federal court, is an offense against the United States;
and an information brought by the United States for the punishment of such a contempt is a "criminal case" within the meaning
of the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 236.
2. A motion .to dismiss an information of criminal contempt raising
the bar of the statute of limitations upon facts appearing upon the
face of the information, is equivalent to a special plea in bar setting
up those facts, and a judgment sustaining the motion is reviewable
under the Criminal Appeals Act, as a judgment sustaining a special
plea in bar. Id.
3. A person charged with criminal contempt is not put in jeopardy
prior to the beginning of the trial by entry of a preliminary order
to take testimony for use at the trial. P. 237.
4. Prosecution of a criminal contempt committed by violating an
injunction decree entered in a suit brought by the United States
uder the Anti-Trust Act, is not barred in one year under § 25 of
The Clayton Act, but in three years under § 1044 Rev. Stats. Id.
Reversed.

under the Criminal Appeals Act, to a judgment
of the District Court dismissing an information for contempt.
ERROR,

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan,with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. Porter R. Chandler, RaIstone R. Irvine, and W. Houston Kenyon, Special

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

277 U. S.

Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
This Court has jurisdiction of this case under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907. United States v. Sanges, 144
U. S. 310; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601; United
States v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72; United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78; United States v. Oppenheimer, 242
U. S. 85; United States v. Noveck, 271 U. S. 201; United
States v. Storrs, 272 U. S. 652; United States v. Celestine,
215 U. S. 278; United States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407.
Contempts are criminal cases within the meaning of the
Act. Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604; Ex parte
Grossman, 267 U. S. 87; Michaelson v. United States, 266
U. S. 42; Myers v. United States, 264 U. S. 95.
The third section of the Criminal Appeals Act, relating
to pleas in bar, is applicable to criminal cases begun by
information as well as to those begun by indictment.
United States v. Borger, 7 Fed. 193; Bailey v. Kalamazoo
Publishing Co., 40 Mich. 251; cf. The Queen v. Steel, L.
R. 2 Q. B. D. 37; United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278;
United States v. Ojpenheimer,242 U. S. 85; United States
v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; Gompers v. United States, 233
U. S. 604.
The "motion to dismiss" filed on behalf of defendants
below was a special plea in bar within the meaning of the
Criminal Appeals Act. United States v. Thompson, 251
U. S. 407; United States v. Oppenheimer, supra; United
States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78; United States v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72; United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168;
United States v. Noveck, 271 U. S. 201.
The defendants in error have not been in jeopardy within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act. Taylor v.
United States, 207 U. S. 120; Kepner v. United States,
195 U. S. 100; United States v. United Shoe Machinery
Co., 198 Fed. 870.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
229

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Section 25 of the Clayton Act, imposing a one-year
period of limitation in certain classes of contempts, has no
application to criminal contempts prosecuted by the
United States. Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604;
Michaelson v. United States, 266 U. S. 42.
The legislative history of the Clayton Act supports the
Government's contention. The contention of the Government .is also supported by the language of the U. S.
Code.
Mr. Robert R. Nevin, with whom Messrs. Ezra M.
Kuhns, Edward H. Green,E. H. Sykes, and Frank F. Dinemore were on the brief, for defendants in error.
At common law, the Government would unquestionably have had no right of appeal. This Court is a court
of limited jurisdiction, and this statute grants it jurisdiction in a narrowly limited class of cases. The right
of appeal therein given is unique, in that it provides for
an absolute right of appeal from the District Court to
this Court. Thus, the statute is in derogation of the
common law in broadening the power of the Government
against the right of the citizen; and it is a very limited
statute giving an extraordinary right of appeal in
very special and carefully-defined circumstances. The
statute must, therefore, be strictly construed, and this
Court has consistently so held. United Stabes v. Weissman, 266 U. S. 377; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.
371.
This proceeding is not a criminal case, within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act. Ex parte Fisk, 113
U. S. 713; Myers v. United States, 264 U. S. 95. Distinguishing Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604; Ex
parte Grossman, 267 U. S. 87; and Michaelson v. United
States, 266 U. S. 42.
There has been no decision or judgment sustaining a
special plea in bar within the meaning of the Criminal

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

277 U. S.

Appeals Act. United States v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72;
United States v. Storrs, 272 U. S. 652.
The words "special plea in bar" have long since acquired a well-settled meaning in the law. Those pleas
appeared first in the civil law and subsequently in the
criminal law. The essential and fundamental characteristic of a special plea (whether it be in bar or in abatement) is that it denies the right of the Government to
succeed by reason of facts extrinsic to the indictment.
Starkie, 1 Cr. P1., p. 349; 2 Bishop's New Crim. Pro., 2d
ed. p. 583; Farley v. Kittson, 120 U. S. 303.
The distinction between demurrers or motions to dismiss, on the one hand, and pleas, on the other, is clear.
The distinction has been clearly recognized by Congress
in the Criminal Appeals Act.
It is true that the defense of the statute of limitations
has usually been raised in pleadings that are properly
called "special pleas in bar," rather than by demurrers or
by motions to dismiss. That, however, is merely due to
an accident rather than to anything inherent in their nature. The statute of limitations customarily pleaded is
found in Rev. Stats., § 1044; and that is restricted by Rev.
Stats., § 1045 so as not to apply to any person fleeing from
justice. Therefore, whenever a defendant has desired the
benefit of that statute of limitations, his pleading, of necessity, had *tobe a special plea in bar setting up the additional fact not appearing in the indictment, viz., that the
defendant was not a fugitive from justice. United States
v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168; United States v. Barber,219 U. S.
72.
The function of a special plea in bar is to set up new
matter. If this were not true, the careful distinction that
Congress has drawn between the first and second subdivisions, on the one hand, and the third subdivision on
the other, would be meaningless. This Court has but
recently held that the words "a special plea in bar" are

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
229

Opinion of the Court.

used in their technical sense. United States v. Storrs,
272 U. S. 652; United States v. Gompers, 233 U. S. 604;
United States v. Novek, 271 U. S. 201; United States v.
Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78.
The statute of limitations relied on is § 25 of the
Clayton Act. It will be noted that this contains no such
limitations as are found in Rev. Stats., §§ 1044 and 1045;
it calls for no such pleading. Accordingly, all the facts
necessary for the defense appeared upon the face of the
information, and the defendants, therefore, did not have
to plead a special plea in bar setting up any .additional
fact. In reality, if they had attempted.to plead a special
plea in bar, their pleading would not have been such.
The defendants have been put in jeopardy. 'Jones v.
Mould, 151 Iowa 599; Brown v. Farley,38 N. J. Eq. 186;
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100; Grafton v. United
States, 206 U. S. 333; United States v. Oppenheimer, 242
U. S. 85; Merchants, etc. Co. v. Board of Trade, 201 Fed.
20; Myers v. United States, 264 U. S. 95.
These proceedings are barred by § 25 of the Clayton
Act. Michaelson v. United States, 266 U. S. 42; L C. C.
v. Baird,194 U. S. 25.
M . JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion

Pf the

Court.
An information presented by the United States to the
District Court charged Jacob A. Goldman and others with
criminal contempts committed by violating an injunction
that had been granted by the court in a suit in equity
brought by the United States against the National Cash
Register Co. and others to enforce the Sherman AntiTrust Act. On motion of the defendants in error the information was dismissed as to them on the ground that
under § 25 of the Clayton Act the prosecution was
138 Stat. 730, c. 323; U. S. C., Tit. 28,

§ 390.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

barred by the statute of limitations of one year. The
United States sued out this direct writ of error under tht
Criminal Appeals Act.2
The questions here are: 1st, whether this Court has
jurisdiction under the writ of error; and 2nd, if so, whether
the one year statute of limitations is applicable.
The information showed upon its face that the alleged
contempts were committed by the defendants in error
more than one year, but less than three years, prior to
its presentment. They entered pleas of not guilty. In
anticipation -of and preparation for the trial a special
examiner was appointed to take, transcribe and report
to the court such testimony as the parties might offer,
with the provision and understanding that at the trial the
parties might rely on such portion of this testimony as
might be desired and also introduce additional testimony,
either oral or documentary. The testimony taken by
the examiner was lodged with the District Judge, and, in
accordance with a nunc pro tunc order, endorsed as " Filed
with the court pending trial in open court." Before the
trial the defendants in error 3 moved to dismiss the charges
against them on the ground that it appeared on the face
of the information that the proceeding for contempt was
instituted more than one year after the date of the alleged
acts complained of. The United States demurred to this
motion on the ground that, treating it as a special plea in
bar, the matters therein contained were not sufficient in
law to bar the prosecution of the information. The court,
likewise treating the motion to dismiss as a special plea
in bar raising the question of the statute of limitations,
overruled the demurrer and dismissed the information as
to the defendants in error on the ground that the prosecution was barred by the statute of limitations.
34 Stat. 1246, c. 2564; U. S. C., Tit. 18, § 682.
3 The United States had previously agreed to dismiss the contempt
proceeding against all the other defendants except one.
2

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
229

235

Opinion of the Court.

1. The Criminal Appeals Act provides that a writ of
error may be taken by the United States from the district
courts direct to this Court "in all criminal cases, in the
following instances, to-wit: .
From the decision
or judgment sustaining a special plea in bar, when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy." The defendants
in error challenge our jurisdiction under the present writ
of error upon the grounds that this is not a criminal
case, that the judgment was not one sustaining a special
plea in bar, and that they had been put in jeopardy. We
cannot sustain this contention.
While a proceeding instituted by the United States for
the punishment of a criminal contempt committed by a
violation of an injunction is not "a criminal prosecution" within the provisions of the Sixth Ameiidment relating to venue in a jury trial, Myers v. United States,
264 U. S. 95, 105, such a criminal contempt is "an offense
against the United States" whose prosecution is subject
to the statute of limitations applicable to such offenses,
Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604, 611, and which,
as such an offense, may be pardoned by the President
under Article II of the Constitution, Ex parte Grossman,
267 U. S.87, 115. The only substantial difference between
such a proceeding for criminal contempt and a criminal
prosecution is that in the one the act complained of is the
violation of a decree and in the other the violation of a
law. Michaelson v. United States, 266 U. S. 42, 67. In
Gompers v. United States, supra, 610, this Court said, in
language which was quoted with approval in Ex parte
Grossman, supra, 116: "It is urged . . . that contempts cannot be crimes, because, although punishable by
imprisonment and therefore, if crimes, infamous, they are
not within the protection of the Constitution and the
amendments giving a right to trial by jury &c. to persons
charged with such crimes. . . . It does not follow
that contempts of the class under consideration are not

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

crimes, or rather, in the language of the statute, offenses,
because trial by jury as it has been giadually worked out
and fought out has been thought not to extend to them
as a matter of constitutional right. These contempts are
infractions of the law, visited with punishment as such.
If such acts are not criminal,' we are in error as to the
most fundamental characteristic of crimes as that word
has been understood in English speech. So truly are they
crimes that it seems to be proved that in the early law
they were punished only by the usual criminal procedure
. . ,and that at least in England it seems that they
still may be and preferably are tried in that way." And
we think it clear that informations brought by the United
States for the punishment of criminal contempts constituting offenses against the United States are "criminal
cases" within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act,
in as real and substantial a sense as ordinary criminal
prosecutions for the punishment of crimes. See Bessette
v. Conkey Company, 194 U. S.324, 335 et seq.
Whether the judgment sustaining the motion of the
defendants in error and dismissing the information on
the ground that the prosecution was barred by the statute
of limitations, was a "judgment sustaining a special plea
in bar" within the meaning of the Act, is to be determined not by form but by substance. United States v.
Thompson, 251 U. S.407, 412. The material question in
such cases is the effect of the ruling sought to be reviewed.
It is immaterial that the plea was erroneously designated
as a plea in abatement instead of a plea in bar, United
States v. Barber, 219 U. S.72, 78, or that the ruling took
the form of granting a motion to quash which was in substance a plea in bar, United States v. Oppenheimer, 242
U. S. 85, 86, United States v. Thompson, supra, 412.
Here the motion to dismiss raised the bar of the statute
of limitations upon the facts appearing on the face of the
information, and was equivalent to a special plea in bar

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
229

Opinion of the Court.

setting up such facts. And the effect of sustaining the
motion was the same as if such a special plea in bar had
been interposed and sustained.
It is also clear that as the court had merely entered a
preliminary order for the taking of testimony for use at
the trial, and had not commenced its sitting for the trial,
the defendants in error had not then been placed in
jeopardy.
2. Finding, therefore, that we have jurisdiction under
the writ of error, we proceed to consider the contention of
the United States that the prosecution of the information
was not barred by the limitation of one year prescribed
in § 25 of the Clayton Act.
In Gompers v. United States, supra, 611, decided in
May, 1914, it was settled that prosecutions for criminal
contempts committed by violations of injunctions, were
barred by the general three years' limitation applicable to
non-capital crimes under R. S. § 1044.' And the sole
question to be considered is whether this has been changed
by § 25 of the Clayton Act, passed in October, 1914.
The provisions of the Clayton Act relating to the punishment of criminal contempt are in §§ 21 to 25, inclusive.
Sec. 21 provides "That any person who shall willfully disobey any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of any district court of the United States
by doing any act or thing therein, or thereby forbidden to
be done by him, if the act or thing so done by him be of
such character as to constitute also a. criminal offense
under any statute of the United States, or under the laws
of any State in which the act was committed, shall be proceeded against for his said contempt as hereinafter provided." Sec. 22 relafes to the procedure, trial, punishment, etc., in proceedings for the punishment of "such
contempt; " Sec. 23 to the allowance of writs of error.
4 The amendment made to that section by the Act of 1921, 42 Stat.
220, c. 124, U. S. C., Tit. 18, § 582, is not here material.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

238

Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Sec. 24 provides "That nothing herein contained shall be
construed to relate to contempts committed in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the
administration of justice, nor to contempts committed in
disobedience of any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command entered in any suit or action brought or
prosecuted in the name of, or.on behalf of, the United
States, but the same, and all other cases of contempt not
specifically embraced within section twenty-one
may be punished in conformity to the usages at law and
in equity now prevailing." And Sec. 25 provides "That
no proceeding for contempt shall be instituted against any
person unless begun within one year from the date of the
act complained of; nor shall any such proceeding be a bar
to any criminal prosecution for the same act or
acts.

.

Although Sec. 25 is broad enough, upon its face, to provide a period of limitation of one year in all criminal contempts, we think that when construed in the light of the
context and read in connection with the preceding sections, it does not relate to the prosecution for criminal
contempts of the character here involved. The Act, as
stated in Mich~aelson v. United States, supra, 66, is "of
narrow scope," and "carefully limited to the cases of contempt specifically defined."
See. 21 relates only to the prosecution for the disobedience of orders, decrees, etc., by doing any forbidden act
which is of such character as to constitute also a criminal
offense under a federal statute or state law. And Sec.
24 specifically declares that "nothing herein contained,"meaning evidently no provision in the Act relating to prosecutions for criminal contempts-shall be construed to
relate to contempts committed in disobedience of any
order, decree, etc., entered in any suit brought in the name
or on behalf of the United States; but that these and all
other cases of contempt not specifically embraced within

REINECKE v. GARDNER.
229

Syllabus.

Sec. 21, may be punished in conformity to the prevailing
usages at law and in equity.

It is plain, we think, that this specific exception in Sec.
24, applies to Sec. 25 relating to the period of limitations
as well as to the other sectiois, and hence that the one
year limitation prescribed by Sec. 25 has no application
to the proceeding in the present case, which was brought
for the disobedience of a decree entered in a suit brought
and prosecuted in the name and on behalf of the United
States.

We find nothing in the legislative history of the Act
which indicates any different intention on the part of the
Congress.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not sit in this case.

REINECKE, COLLECTOR, v. GARDNER, TRUSTEE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 471.

Argued April 17, 18, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. A trustee in bankruptcy of a domestic corporation was not subject,
under the Revenue Act of 1917, to an excess-profits tax on profits
earned in his operation of the bankrupt's business which would have
been so taxable if earned by the corporation. P. 242.
2. The classes subject to the excess-profits tax imposed by Title II,
Revenue Act of 1917, were not enlarged by § 212 of that Title,
which made administrative provisions of the Act of 1916 applicable
in the collection of the tax. P. 244.
3. Under the Revenue Act of 1916, and Treasury Regulations, a taxpayer was obliged to make all deductions from gross income as of
the year when the payments were made, unless he kept his books
on an accrual basis which accurately reflected his income, and
actually made his return on that basis. Id.
4. A question propounded under Jud. Code § 239, need not be
answered if the facts pertinent to it have not been certified. P. 245.

