OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
277 U. S.

Syllabus.

same vice as is the attempt to describe a patentable device
or machine in terms of its function. As a description of
the invention it is insufficient and if allowed would extend
the monopoly beyond the invention. See B6n6 v. Jeantet,
supra; Cochrane v. Badische Anilin & Soda Fabrik, 111
U. S. 293; The Incandescent Lamp Patent,supra;Matheson v. Campbell, 78 Fed. 910; American Adamite Co. v.
Mesta Machine Co., 18 F. (2d) 538.
So far as respondent seeks to enlarge its product patent
by subordinating the patent description of the starch ingredient which the patentee used, and which respondent
does not use, to the vague and indefinite description in
the three product claims now in suit, the patent is subject
to the same vice.
Reversed.

JENKINS, RECEIVER,

ET AL.

v. NATIONAL SURETY

COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 424. Argued April 11, 12, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
A surety company went on the bond furnished by a bank to secure
repayment on demand of the deposits of a county treasurer up to
a specified amount, and, as part consideration for executing the
bond, took the bank's agreement to indemnify it for any liability
it might thereby sustain or incur. The bank became insolvent
while holding deposits of the treasurer exceeding the amount of the
bond, and the surety, having paid that amount, sought to participate pro rata with him and his surety in the distribution of surplus assets of the bank, basing its claim on the indemnity agreement.
Held1. That a former judgment denying the surety the right to be
subrogated to the creditor's claim and remedies against the debtor
until the creditor had been paid in full, did not bar the surety's
claim under the indemnity agreement. P. 265.

JENKINS v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
258

259

Argument for Petitioners.

2. That the indemnity claim should not be allowed. A surety
for part of an indebtedness does not, through the expedient of taking a separate indemnity agreement from the debtor, equip himself
to compete with the secured creditor in the distribution of the
debtor's assets when the debtor becomes insolvent and the surety's
obligation has been paid. P. 265.
18 F. (2d) 707, reversed.

CERTIoRAI, 275 U. S. 515, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which allowed the respondent Surety
Company's claim to share, by way of indemnity, in assets
of an insolvent national bank. The claim had been denied in the District Court.
Messrs. Paul H. Ray and John Jensen, with whom
Messrs. Emmett M. Bagley, Robert L. Judd, A. M.
Cheney, and Harold M. Stephens were on the brief, for
petitioners.
To allow the National to recover anything on its indemnity agreement until Groesbeck has been made whole,
is to violate the plain terms of the National's guaranty
to him and to reduce its liability as guarantor of his
entire deposit, a liability which continued "as well after
as before" the payment of the penalty of its bond.
The bond stands not behind any particular part of
Groesbeck's deposit, but behind all of it so as to be a
guaranty against ultimate loss-a guaranty of the last
$125,000.00, or any part of it.
The fact that the National paid Groesbeck the penalty
of its bond before the receiver ceased to pay dividends,
does not entitle the National to compete with Groesbeck
in receiving dividends from the Bank. Groesbeck did
not need protection against loss of-that part of his deposit
which the Bank could repay by way of dividends in the
event of failure. By its bond the National agreed to
stand between Groesbeck and ultimate loss on his deposit. As long as any part of his deposit remains unpaid,

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

277 U. S.

Groesbeck holds the National's agreement to protect him
to the extent of $125,000.00. Maryland Casualty Co. v.
Fouts, 11 F. (2d) 71; Knaffl v. Knoxville Banking &
Trust Co., 133 Tenn. 655; Buffalo, etc., Co. v. Title
Guaranty & Trust Co., 99 N. Y. S. 883; Merrill v. Nat'l
Bank of Jacksonville, 173 U. S. 131; U. S. F. & G. Co. v.
Carnegie Trust Co., 164 N. Y. S. 92; Illinois Surety Co. v.
United States, 226 Fed. 665; Columbia Finance & Trust
Co. v. Kentucky Union Ry;, 60 Fed. 794; U. S. F. & G. Co.
v. Union Bank & Trust Co., 228 Fed. 448; Peoples v.
Peoples Bros., Inc., 254 Fed. 489; N. J. Midland Ry Co.
v. Wortendyke, 27 N. J. Eq. 658; Featherstone v. Emerson, 14 Utah 12; American Surety Co. v. Nat'l Bank of
Barnesville, 17 F. (2d) 942; In re Daily and Ivins, 19 F.
(2d) 95.
The lower court's decision will result in unfair distribution of the Bank's assets among its creditors in violation of the National Banking Act.
Mr. Bynum E. Hinton, with whom Messrs. A. E. Moreton and Edwin G. Davis were on the brief, for respondent.
The surety's right to subrogation as against the debtor
does not arise until and "unless he pays the whole debt or
it is otherwise satisfied," United States v. Nat'l Surety Co.,
254 U. S. 73; Mellette FarmersElevator Co. v. H. Poehler
Co., 18 F. (2d) 430; whereas, under a contract of indemnity, the surety can proceed against the principal even
though he has paid only a part of the debt. In re Kimbrough-Veasy Co., 292 Fed. 757.
The claim sued upon in this case was not res judicata
by reason of the decision in the first case, and must be determined on its merits.
If the principal be insolvent, this right of the surety to
indemnity makes him, as a creditor of his insolvent principal, a general claimant against his estate, with the right
to file a claim and to be paid dividends thereon in common

JENKINS v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
258

261

Argument for Respondent.

with other general creditors. U. S. F. & G. Co. v. Centropolis Bank, 17 F. (2d) 913, and cases there cited;
Stearns, Suretyship, 3d ed., § 279; 1 Brandt, Suretyship,
3d ed., § 226; Newman v. Goza, 2 La. Ann. 643; Ritenour
v. Matthews, 42 Ind. 7.
The respondent was the creditor of the Bank from the
date of the indemnity agreement, by reason of having
loaned the Bank its credit. Schwartz v. Siegal, 117
Fed. 13.
No new contract was made when it paid the penalty
of its bond. The payment merely fixed the amount of
damages for which the bank was liable under its indemnity agreement. Payment matured and fixed the amount
of the debt and gave rise to a right of action at law for
reimbursement. This debt owing by the Bank was entirely new and distinct. It was in no sense the debt, or
any part of the debt, which the Bank originally owed
Groesbeck and the County. Being a separate and distinct claim, and a valid and binding obligation of the
bank, it should have been allowed by the Receiver and
dividends paid thereon. Townsend v. Sullivan, 3 Cal.
App. 115; Yndo v. Rivas, 107 Tex. 408; Hill et at. v.
Wright, 23 Ark. 530; Ryland v. Commercial, etc., Bank,
127 Cal. 526.
The contract of indemnity was not in contravention
of any provision of law or of the public policy of the
State of Utah, nor was it in contravention of any Act
of Congress relating to the conduct of national banks.
It was therefore a legal and enforceable contract and
no contention is made to the contrary. Nat'l Surety Co.
v. Blaumauer,247 Fed. 937; Western Surety Co. v. Kelly,
27 S. D. 465; U. S. F. & G. v. Centropolis Bank, 17 F.
(2d) 913; 31 C. J.424, § 16.
There is nothing in the bond which indicates any
agreement as between the Bank, the respondent and
Groesbeck that the claim of the County upon its con-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

277 U. S.

tract of deposit should be given any priority over the
claim of the Surety Company upon its contract. This
being true, there is no reason in law or in equity why
the contract of indemnity upon which this action is based
should not be enforced.
The decision of the Court of Appeals in the case at
bar was based largely upon its own decision in the case of
U. S. F. & G. Co. v. Centropolis Bank, 17 F. (2d) 913.
Other cases supporting the view for which we contend
are: U. S. F. & G. Co. v. CarnegieTrust Co., 177 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 176; American Surety Co. v. Nat'l Bank of
Barnesville, 17 F. (2d) 942; In re Dailey et al., 19 F. (2d)
95; Mellette Farmers Elevator Co. v. H. Poehler Co., 18
F. (2d) 430; Title Guaranty & Surety Co. v. Shattuck
et al., 224 Fed. 401; Tenant v. U. S. F. & G. Co., 17 F.
(2d) 38.
The National's liability was limited to the penalty of
its bond. When it paid this penalty, its bond was exonerated. It no longer continued liable as a guarantor of
the entire deposit, nor did its liability continue "as well
after as before" payment, except in the sense that until
the deposit, which it guaranteed in part, was paid in full
the surety could assert no claim to be subrogated to the
rights of the Treasurer against the bank, or to any collateral which he may have held.
"Sureties are never held responsible beyond the clear
and absolute terms and meaning of their undertakings."
Leggett v. Humphreys, 21 How. 66.
Let us suppose that the National had required collateral
security and that the Bank had given it sufficient to fully
protect it against loss. This fact would not have made
necessary any change hatever in the language of the depository bond. Under such circumstances there could be
no doubt of the National's right to retain and to realize
on its collateral, and it might very well have happened
that the National, on the failure of the Bank, would have

JENKINS v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
258

Opinion of the Court.

been the only creditor who was in position to realize dollar for dollar on its claim and escape without loss.
The National may enforce a claim against the Bank
springing from contract, notwithstanding the fact that it
is not entitled to immediate subrogation to the, rights of
its obligee against the Bank. If the contract was in all
respects legal and valid, and its enforcement not limited
or restrained, why should it not be enforced? Can any
good reason be found for destroying a right acquired by
one surety through contract in order that the benefits expected by another surety from subrogation might be perhaps increased?
Mr. George P. Barse filed the brief of Mr. Joseph W.
McIntosh, Comptroller of the Currency of the United
States, as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner Jenkins was appointed receiver of the
National City Bank of Salt Lake City, an insolvent national bank, by the Comptroller of the Currency, under
the provisions of § 5234, R. S. The respondent National
Surety Co. brought this action against the receiver to
compel the allowance of and payment of dividends on its
claim upon an indemnity agreement executed by the bank.
The agreement was contained in the bank's application
for a bond by which the bank as principal and the respondent company as surety undertook that the official
deposits of the treasurer of Salt Lake County, Utah, up
to a named sum, would be repaid on demand. The deposits at the time of the insolvency exceeded the amount
of the bond. The district court directed that dividends on
the claim for indemnity be postponed until the county
treasurer should have been repaid the full balance of his
deposit. The court of appeals for the eighth circuit reversed the decree with instructions that the respondent

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

be paid dividends on an equal basis with other creditors,
including the treasurer. National Surety Co. v. Jenkins,
18 F. (2d) 707. This Court granted certiorari, 275 U. S.
515, to remove a conflict alleged to exist between the
decision below and rulings by the courts of appeals in
other circuits. Maryland Casualty Co. v. Fouts, 11 F.
(2d) 71, Springfield National Bank. v. American Surety
Co., 7 F. (2d) 44.
In his answer the receiver prayed that Groesbeck, the
county treasurer, and the American Surety Co. be required to interplead. An order issued and they filed a
joint answer, from which it appeared that Groesbeck, as
principal, and the American Surety Company, as surety,
had given to Salt Lake County an official fidelity bond
in the sum of $200,000. The treasurer deposited the
county funds in his custody in the bank and took as
security the respondent's bond in the sum of $125,000,
bonds of other surety companies, executed to him as
obligee, in the total sum of $100,000, and from the bank
a certain amount of apparently doubtful collateral.
When the bank failed his official deposit amounted to
$643,094.29. Salt Lake County was paid in full-$200,000
by the American Surety Co. as surety of the treasurer's
fidelity bond; $125,000 by the respondent National Surety
Co., thebalance by the other surety companies and by
dividends paid by the receiver. When the second dividend was paid it was sufficient to pay the final balance due
from the treasurer to the county and leave a surplus of
over $9,000; but there remained an unpaid balance of the
deposit due from the bank to the treasurer.
The claim of the respondent company is for its pro rata
share of this surplus and of all dividends paid or to be
paid by the receiver as well as of the collateral given to
the treasurer by the bank. The claim is resisted by the
interpleaded petitioners, the treasurer and the American
Surety Co., on two grounds, first, that the right of the

JENKINS v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
258

265

Opinion of the Court.

treasurer and his surety to full repayment of his deposits
before any dividends are paid the respondent is in this
case res judicat; second, that the respondent is not entitled to share in the estate of the insolvent debtor until the
balance of the creditors' claims have been fully satisfied.
On both grounds the circuit court of appeals ruled against
the petitioners.
The plea of res judicata was based on the decree in an
earlier suit brought in the district court by the county
treasurer and the American Surety Co. against the receiver
to determine their right to the excess of the second dividend over the county's claim, to all future dividends and
to the collateral. The National Surety Co., the respondent here, was interpleaded and answered. A decree in
favor of the American Surety Co. was affirmed by the
court of appeals for the eighth circuit. National Surety
Co. v. Salt Lake County, 5 F. (2d) 34. We think the
court below was right in holding that the earlier litigation
had determined only that the National Surety Co. was
not entitled to be subrogated to the treasurer's claim and
remedies against the insolvent bank until he had been
paid in full, and in no way involved the National Surety
Company's present separate claim on its contract of indemnity, and that the plea of res judicata was consequently ineffective. But as the certiorari was granted to
review the other branch of the case, and as the view we
take of it makes unnecessary an extensive consideration
of the first question, we pass at once to the second.
The right now asserted by the respondent arises, not
from subrogation to the rights of the treasurer but upon
its independent agreement with the bank for indemnity.
The bank's undertaking was to indemnify respondent
for liability which it might "sustain or incur" by reason
of its having given its surety bond, which was conditioned
on the bank's keeping its deposits "subject at all times to
the check and order of the treasureri" So long as the bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

remained solvent rdspondent would have been entitled to
immediate indemnity from the bank even though that
payment neither satisfied the treasurer's claim nor exhausted the surety's own liability. Davies v. Humphreys,
6 M. & W. 153; Ex parte Snowden, 17 Ch. D. 44. As between itself and its principal the surety should not have
been required to make any payment at all, and to allow
it prompt reimbursement would in no way impede the
creditor so long as the principal remained solvent. But if,
as here, the principal is insolvent, any dividends paid the
-surety on its claim for indemnty before the creditor's
whole claim has been satisfied would decrease the creditor's dividends by his proportionate share of the payments
to the surety. They would also result in a species of
double proof, detrimental to the principal's other creditors,
for the secured creditor would, under the applicable
"chancery rule," still be entitled to dividends on his entire
original claim. Compare Merrill v. National Bank of
Jacksonville, 173 U. S. 131.
Respondent, in insisting on the letter of its agreement,
takes a position in effect inconsistent with its obligation
to secure to the treasurer the repayment of his deposits
to the extent of $125,000. If after paying that amount to
the treasurer it may then compete with him in the distribution of the insolvent's assets, the treasurer's recovery on
the balance of his claim is reduced accordingly and the
benefit of the surety bond to the treasurer is diminished
pro tanto. By the expedient of taking a separate indemnity agreement from the debtor the surety would be enabled to deprive the creditor of the full benefit of the
security he had demanded.
The established rule that the surety may not claim subrogation against an insolvent debtor until the creditor
is paid in full is a recognition of the inconsistency of that
position. United States v. NationalSurety Co., 254 U. S.
73, 76; Peoples v. Peoples Bros., 254 Fed. 489; United

EX PARTE WILtIAMS.
258

.267 "

Opinion of the Court.

States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Union Bank & Trust
Co., 228 Fed. 448, 455. The rule would go for naught if,
by claiming indemnity instead of subrogation, the surety
could achieve the same result. The same policy against
permitting a surety to compete with the creditor for the
insolvent debtor's assets requires that the surety be denied
subrogation to security given to a creditor for several debts
for only one of which the surety is obligated. National
Blank of Commerce v. Rockefeller, 174 Fed. 22. Similar
reasoning underlies the requirement of equity that the
surety who holds the security of an insolvent debtor must
give the benefit of it to the creditor for whom he is surety,
until the debt is fully paid. See Keller v. Ashford, 133
U. S. 610; Hampton v. Phipps, 108 U. S. 260; Chamberlain v. St. Paul, 92 U. S. 299, 306; 2 Pomeroy, Equitable
Remedies (2d ed.) § 925.
Wherever equitable principles are called in play, as they
preeminently are in determining the rights and liabilities
of sureties and in the distribution of insolvents' estates,
they likewise forbid the surety to secure by independent
contract with the debtor indemnity at the expense of the
creditor whose claim he has undertaken to secure.
Reversed.
Ex PARTE WILLIAMS, TAX COMMISSIONER.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS

No. 16, Original.

Return to Rule submitted April 9, 1928.--Decided
May -21, 1928.

1. A refusal of a district judge to call in two other judges for the final
hearing of a case governed by Jud. Code § 266, as amended; is
remediable in this Court by a writ of mandamus. P. 269.
2. A case does not fall within Jud. Code § 266 unless a statute, or
an order of an administrative board or commission, is challenged as
contrary to the Federal Constitution. P. 271.

