304

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
277 U. S.

Syllabus.

Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S. 681, 686; Raymond v. Chicago
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 39; Singer Sewing Mach.
Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481, 487; Union Pac. R. R. Co.
v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282, 285. And no intent to
evade the federal question is indicated.
We are without authority to determine the federal
right claimed by the petitioner. And the writ of certiorari is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
SOUTHERN

PACIFIC COMPANY

v. HAGLUND,

ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL.
SAME v. MOORE SHIPBUILDING COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 472, 473.

Submitted April 13, 1928.--ecided May 21, 1928.

While a steamship, without power or lookout, was being held "dead"
across a channel by a tug, leaving, however, ample space for navigation past her stem, a ferryboat, approaching the opening with
its view of the channel beyond obstructed by the steamer, blew a
single blast of her whistle, indicating her intention to pass in the
rear of the steamer, and having received an acceptance by a like
blast from the tug, continued at full speed until within the opening, when, perceiving another vessel approaching her, though not
dangerously near, she began prematurely her movement to pass
her and struck and injured the steamer. Held:
1. The collision was due solely to the negligence of the ferryboat.
P. 309.
2. The signal of the tug was merely its assent to the proposed
passing in the rear of the steamer. P. 310.
3. The tug was not at fault in accepting the passing signal and
in not sounding a warning instead, though aware of the approach
of the vessel on the other side, there being nothing in the situation
to indicate that the ferryboat would be thereby prevented from
passing the steamer safely, if navigated with due care. Id.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. HAGLUND.
304

Argument for Petitioner.

4. The steamer was not at fault in not having a lookout. The
Ariadne, 13 Wall. 475, distinguished. P. 310.
19 F. (2d) 878. affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

275 U. S. 517, to decrees of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, affirming two decrees in admiralty
against the petitioner for damages caused in a collision
by its ferryboat.
Mr. Win. Denman submitted for petitioner.
The whistle acceptance of a tendered passing signal is
a positive assertion that no danger exists which is known
to the accepting vessel and concealed from the vessel
signalling for the maneuver. If there is such a danger,
the vessel knowing it owes a positive duty to the asking vessel to blow the danger signal. A vessel knowing
of such concealed danger and accepting a passing signal
and failing to blow the danger signal, is in fault and is
responsible for a collision "caused" by the hidden
danger.
The tendering vessel may rely on the assurances of
the accepting vessel and is not at fault for damages arising from proceeding as if the hidden danger were not
there.
The contrary rule, laid down by the Ninth Circuit in
this case, is opposed to the rule as recognized in the
Second, Fourth, Sixth, and Eighth Circuits and all other
cases. It is not the law and is a menace to life and
property at sea. The American, 92 U. S. 432; The Genevieve, 95 Fed. 859; The F. W. Wheeler, 78 Fed. 824; The
Edna V. Crew, 202 Fed. 1021; The Lowell M. Palmer,
142 Fed. 937; Atlas Trans. Co. v. Lee Line_,235 Fed. 492,
on rehearing, 238 Fed. 349; The Richmond, 275 Fed. 970;
The Alabama, 114 Fed. 214; Santa Maria,227 Fed. 149;
Werdenfels, 150 Fed. 400; The Luther C. Ward, 149
Fed. 787.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

277 U. S.

The Relief, and tow, should be held in sole fault, for
had the circumstances been as safe as they properly
seemed to the Thoroughfare, and as the Relief's acceptance told her they were, there was nothing which could
possibly have caused a collision. The Thoroughfare
would have passed safely on through the deep, straight
and unobstructed channel, without hurt to anyone.
The Thoroughfare was in extremis when at the stern
of the Enterprise. Her sudden turn to avoid her danger
was her only salvation, the only thing she could do. The
turn was, therefore, the proximate result of the antecedent invitation by the Relief to enter the trap, from
which the Thoroughfare struggled to escape.
The burden of proof is on each vessel to establish fault
on the part of the other. The Victory, 168 U. S. 410.
Where fault on the part of one vessel is established by
uncontradicted testimony, and such fault is, of itself,
sufficient to account for the disaster, it is not enough for
such vessel, to raise a doubt with regard to the management of the other vessel. The City of New York, 147
U. S. 72.
It is elemental that there should be a lookout on a tow
which obscures the vision of a tug from approaching vessels. Nevada v. Quick, 106 U. S. 154; Edward G. Murray,
234 Fed. 61; James A. Lawrence, 117 Fed. 228; Gladiator, 132 Fed. 876; Arthur M. Palmer,115 Fed. 420.
Every doubt as to the performance of the dity, and the
effect of non-performance, should be resolved against the
)vessel sought to be inculpated until she vindicates herself
by testimony conclusive to the contrary. The Ariadne,
13 Wall. 475; The Anna, 201 Fed. 58.
The mere finding that the Thoroughfare's act is the
proximate cause does not make it the sole cause and does
not absolve the court from considering whether the absence- of a lookout was not a contributing cause. The
International,143 Fed. 468.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. HAGLUND.
304

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ira S. Lillick, with whom Mr. Hunt C. Hill was on
the briefs, submitted for the respondents, Moore Shipbuilding Company and Hildur Haglund, Administratrix.
Mr. J. F. Sullivan, with whom Messrs. Edward I. Barry
and Theodore J. Roche were on the brief, submitted for
the respondent, Rolph Navigation & Coal Company.
MR. Jusicm SmARop

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two suits in admiralty, which were brought in
the federal court for northern California, arose out of a
collision between the ferryboat Thoroughfare and the
steamship Enterprise in charge of the tug Relief, in the
channel of San Antonio Creek, known as the Oakland
Estuary, which resulted in damages to the Thoroughfare
and the Enterprise,and the killing of Ernest Haglund, a
workman on the Enterprise. In No. 472 the administratrix of Haglund's estate libelled the Southern Pacific Co.,
the owner of the Thoroughfare, and the Rolph Navigation & Coal Co., the owner of the Relief, for the damages
arising from his death. In No. 473 the Moore Shipbuilding Co. libelled the Thoroughfare for the damages to the
Enterprise;and the Southern Pacific Co., as claimant of
the Thoroughfare, brought in as third party respondents
the Enterprise, the Relief and the Rolph Navigation. &
Coal Co., to answer for the damages to the Thoroughfare.
The suits were tried on the same evidence as to the
responsibility for the collision, and were consolidated for
hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The District
Court found that the collision was caused solely by the
negligence of the Thoroughfare, without fault on the part
of the Relief or the Enterprise,and entered decrees against
I Another tug, the Hercules, belonging to the Rolph Navigation &
Coal Co., which was also impleaded, is not here involved.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

the Southern Pacific Co. for the damages to the Enterprise and the death of Haglund. These decrees were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 19 F. (2d) 878.
The channel of the Estuary, the great artery of commerce between San Francisco and Oakland, is 500 feet
wide. The collision occurred about noon, on a clear day.
The Enterpr se, a steam freighter 320 feet long, which
was undergoing repairs at the yard of the Moore Shipbuilding Co. on the north bank of the Estuary, was let
down stern foremost on a marine railway into, the waters
of the Estuary, and lay at right angles across the channel.
She was without power, had no look6ut, and had been
placed by the Shipbuilding Company in charge of the
Relief to be berthed at a nearby wharf on the Company's
plant.2 The Thoroughfare, a steam ferryboat, was then
approaching at her full speed of 13 miles an hour on an
easterly course through the Estuary. When about 2,900
feet away she sounded a single blast of her whistle. This
was not answered by the Relief, which was then engaged
in stopping the sternway of the Enterprise towards the
south side of the channel. When the Thoroughfare had
approached within about 1,000 feet of the Enterprise,the
Relief had arrested the movement of the Enterprise and
was holding her dead in the water, with her stern about
100 feet from the south edge of the channel, leaving an
ample opening for the passage of the Thoroughfare. At
this distance the Thoroughfare again sounded a single
blast of her whistle, indicating an intention to direct her
course to starboard and pass in the rear of the Enterprise.
This- was accepted by the Relief by a like single blast..
At this time the master of the Relief was aware of the
presence at a considerable distance on the other side of
2

The Relief was assisted by the tug Hercules referred to in note 1,

supra.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. HAGLUND.
304

309

Opinion of the Court.

the Enterprise of the tug UnionI which, with a tow, was
approaching on a westerly course near the south edge of
the channel. The master of the Thoroughfare, whose
view was then intercepted by the Enterprise, was not
aware of the presence of the Union. After the Relief
gave her answering signal the Thoroughfare continued to
advance at full speed, for about 1,000 feet, heading for the
100 foot opening between the stem of the Enterpriseand
the edge of the channel, and not knowing what vessels
might be encountered on the other side. Meanwhile the
Enterprise remained at rest without any change in position. Just as the Thoroughfare was about to pass, she
saw the Union approaching on the other side and blew
two whistles to indicate her intention of passing on the
starboard side of the Union after she got clear of the
Enterprise. This was accepted by two blasts from the
Union. But before clearing the Enterprisethe Thoroughfare suddenly changed her course to port, and struck the
Enterprise. There was no occasion for this change to
port. The Thoroughfarewas not then in peril; the Union
was about 900 feet away and had already slowed down;
and the Thoroughfare would have had ample time and
space after clearing the Enterprisein which to go to port
and pass on the starboard side of the Union in accordance with the previous exchange of signals. And the
Thoroughfare could herself have stopped within 300 feet.
We agree with the view of both the lower courts that
the collision was caused solely by the negligence of the
Thoroughfare,which not only approached the passageway
in the rear of the Enterprise at full speed, without knowing whether she would encounter any vessel on the other
side, but needlessly commenced the execution of the passing movement with the Union before she had cleared the
8

The Union is not brought into these suits.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Enterprise;and that there was no contributing fault on
the part' of the Relief or the Enterprise.
The Relief was not at fault in accepting the passing signal of the Thoroughfare. This was merely an assent to
the proposed passage in the rear of the Enterprise, expressing an understanding of what the Thoroughfare
proposed to do and an agreement not to endanger or
thwart it by permitting an interfering change in the position of the Enterprise. See Atlas Transp. Co.v. Lee Line
Steamers (C. C. A.), 235 Fed. 492, 495. And the Relief,
being in a position to fully carry out its agreement, was
under no obligation to decline the passing signal because
of the approach of the Union on the other side and to
sound instead a warning signal. There was nothing in
the situation to indicate that the approach of the Union
would prevent the Thoroughfare from passing safely, if,
as the Relief had the right to assume, it were navigated
with due care. See Atlas Transp. Co.v. Lee Line Steamers (C. C. A.), 238 Fed. 349, on petition for rehearing.
The doctrine of The F. W. Wheeler (C. C. A.), 78 Fed.
824, that a moving tug is in fault in accepting, without
warning, a passing signal when she knows that the passage
is obstructed by her grounded tow whose movement she
cannot control, has no application here.
Nor was the Enterprise at fault in not having a lookout. The rule stated in The Ariadne, 13 Wall. 475, 478,
as to the responsibility of a moving vessel for the failure
of her lookout to discover an approaching vessel in time
to avoid a collision, does not apply to a vessel in the position of the Enterprise,which was at rest, without power;
ahd the absence of a lookout upon her did not in any
manner contribute to the collision.
Decrees affirmed.

