BROOKE v. NORFOLK.
Argument for Respondents.

BROOKE v. CITY OF NORFOLK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 229.

Argued April 10, 11, 1928.-Decided April 23, 1928.

A beneficiary entitled only to the incene for life of a fund controlled
and possessed by trustees in another State where the trust was

created, cannot be taxed on the corpus of the fund by the State
of his domicile in addition to a tax upon the income.

P. 28.

Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 734, to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, which, in effect,
sustained a judgment of the Corporation Court of Norfolk, upholding tax assessments made against the petitioner, a citizen of Virginia.

Mr. Robert B. Tunstall, with whom Mr. NathanieI T.
Green was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. E. Warren Wall for respondents.
In the case of personal property, it has been repeatedly

held that a general gift or be quest of the income is in contemplation of law equivalent to a gift of the property
itself; that the principal of the fund passes by a gift of
the income therefrom.
By a long line of Virginia decisions, it has been held
by the state court of last resort that it is the policy of this
Commonwealth to tax the interest of all residents in all
intangible property owned by them, regardless of the fact
that the income from the prbperty may be collected for
and paid over to the owner by a trustee, no matter
whether the trustee be a resident or a nonresident of this
State.
Virginia does not impose any tax upon the foreign
trustee or the funds in his hands as such;. thetax assessed

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

is simply a personal charge against a resident of the State,
the basis for this charge being the interest of that resident in the intangible personality held in trust for him.
If the Commonwealth of Virginia is forbidden by the
Federal Constitution to tax its own citizens and residents
on account of their interest in intangible personal property, then upon whom may it impose taxes on account of
such ownership?
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner applied in the local form of proceeding
for the correction of two assessments for taxation alleged
to be erroneous and contrary to the Fourteenth, Amendment. The Court of first instance, The Corporation
Court of the City of Norfolk, upheld both assessments
as valid, and the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
rejected a petition for a writ of error on the ground that
the judgment below was plainly right. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court. 274 U. S. 734.
The assessments complained of were for City and State
taxes upon the corpus of a trust fund created by the will
of a citizen of Maryland resident in Baltimore at the
time of her death. This will bequeathed to the Safe
Deposit and Trust Company of Baltimore eighty thousand dollars in trust to pay the income to the petitioner
for life, then to her daughters for their lives, and, upon
the death of the last survivor, to divide the principal
between the descendants then living of the daughters per
stirpes. The will was proved in Maryland and in 1914
was admitted to probate in the Corporation Court of
Norfolk as a foreign will. The property held in trust
has remained in Maryland and no part of it is or ever has
been in Virginia.
The petitioner has paid without question a tax upon
the income received by her. But the doctrine contended
for now is that the petitioner is chargeable as if she
owned the whole. No doubt in the case of tangible prop-

COFFIN BROTHERS v. BENNETT.
Statement of the Case.

27

erty lying within the State and subject to a paramount
lien for taxes, the occupant actually using it may be made
personally liable. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Kentucky,
218 U. S. 551, 562. Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10,
16. But here the property is not within the State, does
not belong to the petitioner and is not within her possession or control. The assessment is a bare proposition
to make the petitioner pay upon an interest to which
she is a stranger. This cannot be done. See Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co. v. Doughton, 272 U. S. 567, 575.
Judgment reversed.

COFFIN BROTHERS & COMPANY

ET AL. V.

BENNETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 465. Argued April 17, 1928.-Decided April 30, 1928.
1. The law in Georgia by which the Superintendent of Banks may
issue executions against stockholders of insolven banks who, after
notice from him, neglect to pay assessments on their stock, and
which makes such executions liens on their property from date of
issuance, is consistent with due process of law, since the stockholders are given opportunity to raise and try in court every
possible defense by filing affidavits of illegality. P. 31.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment is not concerned with the mere form
of the state procedure. Id.
3. If the debtor does not demand a trial, the execution does not need
the sanction of a judgment. Id.
4. The stockholders, by becoming such, assumed the liability imposed
by the statute. Id.
164 Ga. 350, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
which affirmed a judgment sustaining a demurrer to a
petition seeking to enjoin Bennett, the Superintendent
of Banks, from issuing executions to collect assessments
made on stockholders of a bank.
ERROR

