MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
Argument for Petitioners.

MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. GOODYEAR,
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 131.

Argued December 8, 1927.-Decided May 28, 1928.

1. Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, a full settlement and
release, executed advisedly and in good faith between a railroad
carrier and an injured employee, discharges not only the claim of
the employee for personal loss and suffering resulting from the
injury while he lived, but also the claim of his dependants for
pecuniary damages resulting from his ensuing death. P. 339.
2. Insofar as it gives an action for the benefit of dependants the
statute is essentially identical with Lord Camnpbell's Act. Under
both the remedy of the dependants is conditioned on the existence
in the decedent at the time of his death of a right to recover for
the injury. P. 344.

121 Kan. 392, reversed.

273 U. S. 684, f9 a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas, affirming a judgment recovered
by the administrator of a deceased employee in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. See also 114
Kan. 557; 115 Id. 20.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Luther Burns, with whom Messrs. M. L. Bell,
W. F. Dickinson, T. P. Littlepage, J. E. DuMars, W. D.
Vance, and Sidney F. Andrews were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, settlement
and release of all claims for personal injuries made in
good faith by an injured employee, who subsequently dies
as a result of the injury, constitute a bar to an action by
a personal representative for the benefit of dependants
for the death. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59; Hecht v. 0. & M. Ry., 132 Ind. 507; Littlewood v. Mayor, 89 N. Y. 24; Southern Bell Tel. Co. v.
Cassin, 111 Ga. 575; Edwards v. Chemical Co., 170 N. C.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

551; Louisville R. R. Co. v. Raymond's Admr., 135 Ky.
738; Perry's Admr. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 199 Ky. 396;
State v. United Rys., 121 Md. 457; Bruns v. Welte, 126
Ill. App. 541; Strode v. Transit Co., 197 Mo. 616; Sewell
v. Ry. Co., 78 Kan. 1; Hill v. Penn. Ry. Co., 178 Pa. 223;
Read v. Gt. Eastern R. Co., L. R. 3 Q. B. 555; Goodyear
v. Ry. Co., 114 Kan. 557; Berner v. Merc. Co., 93 Kan.
769; Giersch v. A. T. & S. F. R. Co., 98 Kan. 452; Fuller
v. A. T. & S. F. R. Co., 124 Kan. 66; Frese v. C. B.
& Q. R. Co., 263 U. S. 1; American R. R. Co. v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145; Western, Union v. Preston, 254 Fed.
229; St. Louis, etc., R. R. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648;
17 C. J., 1250.
Messrs. Edwin C. Brandenburg and John F. McClure,
with whom Mr. Nelson J. Ward was on the brief, submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNODS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
While employed in interstate commerce by the Director General of Railroads at Belleville, Kansas, July
31, 1919, Lewis Goodyear sustained serious personal injuries for which he claimed the right to recover damages
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act (35 Stat. 65,
c. 149; 36 Stat. 291). On March 16, 1920, he settled
with the employer, accepted the agreed sum, and executed
a general release, which, among other things, recites"I do hereby compromise said claim and do respectively
release and forever discharge said Director General of
Railroads, operating Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad, and his successor or successors as such, the United
States of America, The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Company, the owner of said Railroad, and all
railway companies whose lines are leased to said Railway
Company or have been operated by it but are now oper-

MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
335

Opinion of the Court.

ated by said Director General, and their respective agents
and employes, from any and all liability for all claims and
demands for all damages resulting from the injuries received by me at the time and place above stated, including such injuries as may hereafter develop as well as those
now apparent, and also do release and discharge them,
and each of them, of all suits, actions, causes of action
and claims for damages on account of injuries to my person, as well as damages to my property, if any, which I
have or might have arising from, growing out of, or in
anywise connected with the accident above referred to,
and do hereby acknowledge full satisfaction of all such
liability and causes of action.
"It is further expressly understood and agreed that this
release shall be deemed to be and shall be a complete bar
to any action which might otherwise be brought, either
by law, or under any state or federal workmen's compensation act, employers' liability act, labor law, or any other
statute, for the recovery of compensation or damages on
account of said injuries (or of resulting death, if this be
executed by an administrator or adninistratrix of the
estate of said person), for the benefit of any person whomsoever or estate whatsoever."
May 4, 1920, Goodyear died. April 19, 1921, relying
upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act, his widow
as administratrix and in behalf of herself and her children, brought this action for damages against the Director
General in the District Court, Republic County, Kansas.
She alleged that her husband's death resulted from the
injuries suffered July 31, 1919. As a bar to the action the
answer set up the settlement and release above referred
to; and the administratrix replied that the beneficiaries
had a separate cause of action for their pecuniary damage
which the decedent could not release.
The cause was twice tried and twice considered by the
Supreme Court of Kansas. At the first trial, the jury was

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

told--" You are instructed that the law favors a compromise and settlement of disputes, and,; when parties in
good faith enter into an agreement based on good consideration, neither is afterwards permitted to deny it."
Judgment for the Director General was reversed by the
Supreme Court. It held the quoted instruction erroneous.
The opinion shows care and research, and forcefully sets
out the argument against the power of an injured employee to destroy the right of dependants to recover in
event of his death. 114 Kan. 557; 115 Kan. 20.
At the second trial the court instructed the jury"The Federal Employers' Liability Act, under which
plaintiff's action was brought, creates two separate and
distinct rights of action resulting from an injury such as
complained of by the plaintiff in this case; one right of
action to the injured employee for his suffering and loss
resulting from the injury, and one to his personal representative for the benefit of his surviving widow and children, in the event death results from the injury.
"And you are instructed that the latter cause of action
could not be released by the deceased Lewis Goodyear by
any action taken by him. It accrues solely to his personal representative for the benefit of the persons named
and Lewis Goodyear in his lifetime would have no control
over same.
"In other words, it did not accrue until his death and
hence he could not release it by any act on his part."
Answering special questions, the jury found that no
fraud attended the settlement; Goodyear was mentally
capable of transacting business at the time; there was no
.mutual mistake as to his physical condition; the release
was not given under the mistaken belief that the material
results of his injuries had disappeared; and nothing was
allowed for funeral expenses.
Upon a verdict in her favor for $5,000.00 judgment
went for the administratrix, which the Supreme Court af-

MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
335

Opinion of the Court.

firmed, definitely approving the instruction last quoted.
121 Kan. 392. She died July 10, 1926, and Edward
Goodyear was duly substituted by order of Supreme Court
of Kansas.
The question for our decision is whether the settlement
between Goodyear and the employer made advisedly and
in good faith barred an action by dependants for their
pecuniary damages through his death.
The Liability Act, approved April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65,
c. 149, provided" Sec. 1. That every common carrier by railroad while
engaging in commerce between any of the several States
or Territories, or between any of the States and Territories, or between the District of Columbia and any of the
States or Territories, or between the District of Columbia
or any of the States or Territories and any foreign nation
or nations, shall be liable in damages to any person suffering injury while he is employed by such carrier in such
commerce, or, in case of the death of such employee, to
his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the
surviving widow or husband and children of such employee; and, if none, then of such employee's parents;
and, if none, then of the next of kin dependent upon such
employee, for such injury or death resulting in whole or
in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents,
or employees of such carrier, or by reason of any defect
or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines,
appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats,
wharves, or other equipment."
The amending Act, of April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291, c. 143,
added the following" Sec. 9. That any right of action given by this Act to a
person suffering injury shall survive to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving
widow or husband and children of such employee, and, if
none, then of such employee's parents; and, if none, then

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

of the next of kin dependent upon such employee, but in
such cases there shall be only one recovery for the same

injury."
In Michigan Central Railroad Company v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59, 65, 67, 68, 69, 70-an action by the administrator to recover for loss suffered by the wife by reason
of her husband's wrongful death-this Court considered
the original statute (1908) and held that the employee's
right of action to recover such damages as would compensate for expenses, loss of time, suffering, and diminished
earning power did not survive his death. Also that the
mere existence of such a right in the employee's lifetime
did not destroy the dependant's right under the statute
to recover for pecuniary damages consequent upon the
death. By Mr. Justice Lurton, the Court said"We think the act declares two distinct and independent liabilities, resting, of course, upon the common
foundation. of a wrongful injury, but based upon altogether different principles.
"The Act of 1908 does not provide for any survival of
the right action created in behalf of an injured employ6.
That right of action was therefore extinguished.
"The obvious purpose of Congress was to save a right
of action to certain relatives.dependent upon an employ6
wrongfully injured, for the loss and damage resulting to
them financially by reason of the wrongful death. .
"This cause of action is independent of any cause of action which the decedent had, and includes no damages
which he might have recovered for his injury if he had
survived. It is one beyond that which the decedent
had,-one proceeding upon altogether different principles.
It is a liability for the loss and damage .
.
resulting
to them and for that only.
"The statute in giving an action for the benefit of certain members of the family of the decedent is essentially
identical with the first act which ever provided for a cause

MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
335

Opinion of the Court.

of action arising out of the death of a human being, that
of 9 and 10 Victoria, known as Lord Campbell's Act...

.

"But as the foundation of the right of action is the
original wrongful injury to the decedent, it has been generally held that the new action is a right dependent upon
the existence of a right in the decedent immediately before his death to have maintained an action for his wrongful injury. Tiffany, Death by Wrongful Act, ยง 124; Louisville, E. & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Clark, 152 U. S. 236; Read
v. G. E. Ry., L. R. 3 Q. B. 555; Hecht v. 0. & M. Ry.,
132 id. 507; Fowlkes v. Nashville & Decatur R. R. Co.,
9 Heisk. 829; Littlewood v. Mayor, 89 N. Y. 24; Southern
Bell Tel. Co. v. Cassin, 111 Ga. 575.
"The distinguishing features of that act [Lord Campbell's Act] are identical with the act of Congress of 1908
before its amendment; First, it is grounded upon the
original wrongful injury of the person; second, it is for
the exclusive benefit of certain specified relatives; third,
the damages are such as flow from the deprivation of the
pecuniary benefits which the beneficiaries might have
reasonably received if the deceased had not died from his
injuries.
"The word 'pecuniary' did not appear in Lord Campbell's Act, nor does it appear in our act of 1908. But the
former act and all those which follow it have been continuously interpreted as providing only for compensation
for pecuniary loss or damage."
St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S.
648, 657, 658An administrator sought to recover for the father's
benefit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act as
amended in 1910. Damages were claimed on account of
(a) pecuniary loss to the father, and (b) conscious pain
and suffering by the decedent. The Railway Company
insisted that the recovery should be restricted either to
the pecuniary loss to the father, or to the damages sus-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

tained by the injured person while alive; that the statute
does not permit recovery for both. This Court held
otherwise, and said"If the matter turned upon the original act alone it is
plain that the recovery here could not include damages
for the decedent's pain and suffering, for only through a
provision for a survival of his right could such damages
be recovered after his death. But the original act is not
alone to be considered. On April 5, 1910, prior to the
decedent's injuries the act was amended. . . . No
change was made in ยง 1. . . . It continues, as before,
to provide for two distinct rights of action; one in the
injured person for his personal loss and suffering where
the injuries are not immediately fatal, and the other in
his personal representative for the pecuniary loss sustained by designated relatives where the injuries immediately or ultimately result in death. Without abrogating
or curtailing either right, the new section provides in
exact words that the right given to the injured person
'shall survive' to his personal representative 'for the
benefit of' the same relatives in whose behalf the other
right is given. Brought into the act by way of amendment, this provision expresses the deliberate will of
Congress. . . . Although originating in the same
wrongful act or neglect, the two claims are quite distinct,
no part of either being embraced in the other. One is for
the wrong to the injured person and is confined to his personal loss and suffering before he died, while the other is
for the wrong to the beneficiaries and is confined to their
pecuniary loss through his death. One begins where the
other ends, and a recovery upon both in the same action
is not a double recovery for a single wrong but a single
recovery for a double wrong. .
In Frese, Admx., v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co., 263 U. S. 1, 4, an action under the Liability Act for

MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
335

Opinion of the Court.

damages consequent upon death of the plaintiff's intestate, it was said: "If the engineer could not have recovered for an injury his administratrix can not recover
for his death. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59, 70." The injuries were due primarily to
the default of the engineer and the employer never
became liable to him.
In Reading Company v. Koons, Admr., 271 U. S. 58, 64,
the *administrator sought recovery by suit commenced
seven years after the employee's death, but within two
years after the granting of administration. This Court
declared the action was barred.
In Oliver v. SeaboardAir Line Ry. (1919), 261 Fed. 1,
2, 3, 4, the employee received injuries March 31, 1912, and
died August 11, 1915. The administrator sued and the
Railway Company resisted on the ground that,; during his
lifetime, the decedent had recovered a judgment for the
damages sustained which had been satisfied. The trial
court overruled the defense and allowed recovery. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and said"The defendant in error's lack of right to maintain his
suit in such a situation as the one under consideration is
due, not to the decedent's lack, immediately prior to his
death, of an enforceable right of action for the injury he
siistained, but to the fact that the cause of action counted
on has been extinguished by payment of the judgment
recovered.by the decedent for the wrong he suffered."
Obviously, the settlement and release of March 16, 1920,
satisfied and discharged any claim against the Director
General for the personal loss and suffering of Goodyear.
Immediately before his death he had*no right of action
and nothing passed to the administratrix because of such
loss and suffering. Hence, it is that the administratrix
must recover, if at all, under ยง 1, Act of 1908, which
imposes liability for pecuniary loss sustained by dependants through death.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Concerning that section, Vreelanc's case, supra, declares: "But as the foundation of the right of action is
the original wrongful injury to the decedent, it has been
generally held that the new action is a right dependent
upon existence of a right in the decedent immediately
before his death to have maintained an action for his
wrongful injury." And no later opinion here has given
expression to any other view.
By the overwhelming weight of judicial authority,
where a statute of the nature of Lord Campbell's Act in
effect gives a right to recover damages for the benefit of
dependants, the remedy depends upon the existence in the
decedent at the time of his death of a right of action to
recover for sich injury. A settlement by the wrongdoer
with the injured person, in the absence of fraud or mistake, precludes any remedy by the personal representative
based upon the same wrongful act. Construing the statute
of Kansas, the Supreme Court of that State seems to have
accepted this generally approved doctrine. Fuller,Admx.
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 124 Kan. 66.
The cases supporting this view, from courts of last resort in twenty-one States, Canada and England, are collected in a note following the first opinion of the Supreme
Court of Kansas in the present cause, reported in 39
A. L. R., 579. And in Tiffany on Wrongful Death,2d ed.,
ยง 124, the rule (with supporting authorities) is thus
broadly stated"If the deceased, in his lifetime, has done anything that
would operate as a bar to a recovery by him of damages
for the personal injury, this will operate equally as a bar
in an action by his personal representatives for his death.
Thus, a release by the party injured of his right of action,
or a recovery of damages by him for the injury, is a complete defense in the statutory action. But, while the
courts have agreed in their decisions, they have had difficulty in reconciling them with the express declaration of

MELLON v. GOODYEAR.
335

Opinion of the Court.

the statute that the action may be maintained whenever
the act, neglect, or default is such that the party injured,
if death had not ensued, might have maintained an
action.
"It is hardly possible to place the general holding upon
any very logical ground. The position taken by the
courts is fairly enough summed up as follows: 'Whether
the right of action is a transmitted right or an original
right, whether it be created by a survival statute or by a
statute creating an independent right, the-general consensus of opinion seems to be that the gist and foundation
of the right in all cases is the wrongful act, and that for
such wrongful act but one' recovery should be had, and
that if the deceased had received satisfaction in his lifetime, either by settlement and adjustment or by adjudication in the courts, no further right of action existed.'"
Strode v. Transit Co., 197 Mo. 616.
See also--Edwards v. Chemical Co., 170 N. C. 551;
Louisville R. Co. v. Raymond's Admr., 135 Ky. 738;
Perrys Admr. v. L. & N. R. Co., 199 Ky. 396; State v.
United Rys., 121 Md. 457; Hill v. Penn. Ry. Co., 178
Pa. 223.
Considering the repeated holdings of many courts of
last resort, the declarations by this Court, and the probable ill consequences to both employees and employers
which would follow the adoption of the contrary view,
we must conclude that the settlement and release relieved
the Director General from all liability for damages consequent upon the injuries received by Goodyear and his
death.
The Statute of 1908 is entitled "An Act Relating to
the liability of common carriers by railroad to their employees in certain cases." Fifteen years ago this Court
affirmed that insofar as it gives an action for the benefit
of dependants, the statute is essentially identical with
Lord Campbell's Act. Continued adherence to this view

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

is emphasized by repeated holdings that dependants can
recover only pecuniary damages. American Railroad Co.
of Porto Rico v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145, 149; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173;
C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Kelly, Admx., 241 U. S. 485; C. & 0.
Ry. Co,. v. Gainey, Admr., 241 U. S. 494; Gulf, Colorado
& Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Moser, 275 U. S. 133. Neither
statute defines the nature of the damages to be recovered;
this was left for interpretation. We followed the construction given the earlier one when it became necessary
to interpret and apply the later and similar act.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MIDLAND NATIONAL BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS v.
DAKOTA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 425. Argued April 12, 13, 1928.-Decided May 28, 1928.
1. A judgment of the District 'Court cannot be reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon a proposition outside of the issues
raised by the pleadings and which no fact admitted, -nor evidence
received, offered or excluded, tends to sustain. So held when a
judgment on an assigned life insurance policy, though in all other
respects sustained, was reversed upon the ground that the policy
was in part a wagering contract-a matter not litigated in the
District Court. P. 349.
2. A valid life insurance policy is not rendered void by assignment to
one not having an insurable interest. P. 350.
18 F. (2d) 903, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 515, to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed a judgment on a

