HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 245
239

Syllabus.

ments were made unless he keeps his books on an accrual
basis which accurately reflects his income, and actually,
made his return on that basis. See' United States v.
Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9; American National Co. v. United
States, 274 U. S. 99. The present certificate fails to state
whether the books of the trustee as kept reflected his income or whether his return was made on the accrual basis
or on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements. Under Jud. Code ยง 239 the facts pertinent to the question
asked must be certified. When they are omitted from
the certificate the question need not be answered. Dillon v. StrathearnS. S. Co., 248 U. S. 182.
Question No. 1. Answered, No.
Question No. 2. Not answered.
HOLLAND FURNITURE COMPANY v. PERKINS
GLUE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO-THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 285.

Argued March 14, 15, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. The narrowing by disclaimer of the process claims of a patent
does not necessarily narrow the product claims. P. 254.
2. A patentable process is a method of treatment of certain materials to produce a particular result or proluct. The description
of the process does not necessarily embrace the product. Either
or both may be patentable. P. 255.
3. If the choice or designation of an essential ingredient of a composition of matter may be called a process, the process is one
inseparable from the composition itself; the description of one
necessarily limits the other; and the patent of the product cannot
extend beyond a product having the designated ingredient. Id.
4. A patent for a composition of matter should contain some description of the ingredients entering into the composition which
will both define the invention and carry it beyond the previous
development of the art. P. 254.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

5. A patentee of a composition of matter, the product of a process,
cannot, by claiming the use or function of the product, extend his monopoly over lke products made with ingredients not
described in his patent. P. 257.
6. Respondent's patent (Perkins reissue, No. 13436, limited by disclaimers) includes claims, not here in dispute, for a process of
making starch glue by treating with caustic alkali and water any
starch in which the capacity to absorb -water is limited by nature
or by artificial "degeneration" to a degree specified in the patent,
resulting in a glue as good as animal glue for wood veneering and
similar uses. It also includes product claims of which three (Nos.
28, 30, and 31), forming the only subject matter of adjudication
in the case, are construed as claiming, in substance, any sttrch glue
which, combined with about three parts or less by weight of
water, will have substantially the same properties as animal glue.
The characteristic quality of animal glue is that when combined
with three parts or less by weight of water it is-suitable for use
in wood veneering. Held, that the claims are void, as they do not
describe the starch ingredient in terms of its own physical or chemical properties, or those of the product, but wholly in terms of
the use or function of the product. P. 256.
18 F. (2d) 387, reversed.

CERTIoRARI, 275 U. S. 512, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, reversing the District Court and holding the present petitioner liable as an infringer of certain
claims of the respondent's patent.
Mr. Charles Evans Hughes, with whom Messrs. Win.
H. Davis, James A. Watson, and R. Morton Adams were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Gorfam Crosby,with whom Mr. S. Mortimer Ward,
Jr., was on the brief, for respondent.
ME. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent br6ught this suit in the district court for
western Michigan, to enjoin infringement of the Perkins
Reissued Patent No. 13436. So much of the judgment for
the defendant, petitioner here, as held the product claims
of the patent not infringed by respondent's product, was
reversed by the court of appeals for the sixth circuit.

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 247
245

Opinion of the Court.

Perkins Glue Co. v. Holland Furniture Co., 18 F. (2d)
387. The court of appeals for the seventh circuit, Perkins Glue Co. v. Gould Manufacturing Co., 292 Fed. 596,
and the court of appeals for the second circuit, Perkins
Glue Co. v. Standard Furniture Co., 287 Fed. 109, had
previously held the patent not infringed by the same
product.' " This Court granted certiorari. 275 U. S. 512.
The patent is entitled "A Patent for Starch Glue and
a Method of Making It." Perkins was the first to make
successfully a starch glue suitable for wood veneering
and similar uses. Glue made from animal substances,
known as animal glue, has long been in common use as
an' adhesive and is especially adapted to use in wood
veneering, in which thin sheets or layers of wood are
fastened together by the use of an adhesive bonding material. The characteristic qualities of animal glue, making
it peculiarly suitable for that use, are a low absorptiveness of water and a consequent high degree of fluidity,
facilitating its application by mechanical means, high
elasticity and great tensile strength. A high water content, characteristic of other adhesive preparations, delays
drying, warps the wood and when dry leaves too little
bonding material to secure the requisite strength. In
practice animal glue is made suitably fluid for use in wood
veneering by the addition of a critically small amount of
water, three parts by weight to one of glue.
Long before Perkins' experiments, adhesive paste or
mucilage made from starch was well known. The Gerard
Patent (1874, Belgian, No. 34869) and the Dornemann
I Other cases involving the patent in suit are Perkins Glue Co. v.
Solva Waterproof Glue Co., 233 Fed. 792; Solva Waterproof Glue
Co. v. Perkins Glue Co., 251 Fed. 64; Perkins Glue Co. v. Hood, 279
Fed. 454; Perkins Glue Co. v. Holland Furniture Co., 279 Fed 457;
Perkins Glue Co. v. Standard Furniture Co., 279 Fed. 458; Perkins
Glue Co. v. Gould Mfg. Co., 280 Fed. 728; Perkins Glue Co. v.
Crandall Panel Co., 294 Fed. 135.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Patent (1893, French, No. 232781) described a process of
producing an adhesive or glue by dissolving starch in a
solution of caustic alkali. The suitability of starch as a
glue base in this and other processes depends upon its
water absorptive quality which varies with the starch of
different plants, and under varying conditions with the
starch of the same plant. Because of their high water
absorption, glues produced from starch, before Perkins,
were too viscous and hence required too large an admixture
of water for use successfully as a wood veneering glue.
The controlling difficulty to be overcome in the development of a starch glue suitable for veneering was what may
be called the normally large water absorptive quality of
starch, corresponding to the viscosity of the resultant glue,
a reduction of the one effecting a reduction in the other.
It has long been known that the viscosity or the water
absorptive quality of starches may be reduced by chemical
treatment known as degeneration in which changes in the
arrangement of the atoms in the starch molecules are
effected by use of a catalytic agent. In 1906 Gerson &
Sachse (German, No. 167275) patented a process for the
preparation of a starch base for glue manufacture by degenerating starch by the use of oxidizing agents in the presence of an alkali. But the resultant glue from this and
other processes was not suitable for use in the woodworking trades. To make it sufficiently fluid for convenient use required too large an admixture of water,
four parts or more to one of glue, so that the wood was
warped and when dried the glue was not sufficiently tenacious to be used successfully as a substitute in that
manufacture for animal glue.
The Perkins patent described a process for making glue
from starch and a resultant product "as good as animal
glue," "which will have the great practical advantage
that it may be practically used for the same purposes as
the best animal glue." The process consisted of two steps.

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 249
245

Opinion of the Court.

The basic material was a suitable raw starch, preferably
starch made from the cassava root, and the first step
was concerned with its conversion or degeneration so as
to make a "glue base" with lower water absorptivity than
ordinary untreated starch. This was to be accomplished
by combining the basic raw material with oxidizing agents
and subjecting them to heat. The method was that described in the Gerson & Sachse patent and was not new.
The characteristic feature of this first step as described
by Perkins was not the manner of degeneration but its
degree. The degeneration of the raw cassava starch was
to be carried to a point just short of its conversion into
dextrine, a soluble starch, which, because of that property
is of little value in glue manufacture. The patent in its
re-issued form stated with precision the particular degree
to which the water absorptive properties of the starch
might be reduced in the preparation of a suitable glue base
and described with particularity tests (the "9 to 1 boil
up" test and the 170' test) for ascertaining when that
stage of degeneration had been reached.
The second step in the process consisted in the treatment of the glue base, as prepared by the first step, by the
addition of three parts or less of water by weight to one
of the glue base and a specified percentage of cellulose
solvent such as caustic -potash. The process of preparing
a starch glue by treating the glue base with a cellulose
solvent was described by the Gerard and Dornemann
patents and was not new, but more than three parts of
water were used; hence the resultant glue was not suitable
for veneering. The fundamental ideas of the Perkins
process patent might be expressed in simple terms as
follows: Glue made by dissolving ordinary starch in an
alkaline solution of three parts of water (the quantity
to which the woodworking industry is accustomed) is too
thick. Glue made from over-degenerated starch is too
weak. Between the extremes there is a range of degeneration within which the starch base, when dissolved in

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

caustic potash, will produce glue of ample fluidity without
loss of tensile strength or other qualities characteristic
of animal glue.
The product claims, of which more will be said presently, were for the resultant glue, in substance for a starch
glue having substantially the properties of animal glue.
The patent has thirty-eight claims, divisible into groups.
One group covers the process of producing the degenerated
starch glue base, the first step process, already described.
One group embraces the glue base product produced by
the first step process. Another group includes the process
of dissolving the starch base, by the use of alkaline solvents, the second pro~ess step; another, the combination
of the two process steps and finally the group with which
we are now concerned is based upon the ultimate product,
the glue itself. Three of the claims embraced in this
ultimate product group are the only ones now in suit, 28,
30 and 31. They are as follows:
28. A glue comprising cassava carbohydrate rendered
semifluid by digestion and having substantially the properties of animal glue.
30. A wood and fiber glue formed of a starchy carbohydrate or its equivalent by union therewith of about 3
parts or less by weight of water and alkali metal hydroxid.
31. A wood and fiber glue containing amylaceous material as a base dissolved without acid in about three
parts of water or less, and being viscous, semifluid and
unjellified.
Of these the broadest in terms is No. 28, but it appears
that a glue thus composed will not have "substantially
the properties of animal glue" unless containing only the
small amount of water specified in Claim 30. We may
take it also that an article which is "wood and fiber glue"
as described in the specifications will be "viscous, semifluid and unjellified" as described in Claim 31, and will
also have substantially the properties of animal glue as
specified in Claim 28, so that in point of substance the

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 251
245

Opinion of the Court.

product claims in suit are for a starch glue which, combined with about three parts or less by weight of water,
will have substantially the same properties as animal glue.
With respect to the other or non-product groups of
claims respondent, in consequence of earlier litigation,
has filed a disejaimer. Brief reference must be made to
both the litigation and the disclaimer. The respondent
brought an infringement suit in the northern district of
Illinois against the Solva Company, asserting an infringement of claims in each of the five groups by the product
of that company, comprising in part at least a raw cassava
starch glue base which, for present purposes, may be taken
as identical with the product of the petitioner. Upon
appeal to the seventh circuit court of appeals, Solva
Waterproof Glue Co. v. Perkins Glue Ca., 251 Fed. 64,
that court rendered an opinion, in some respects obscure,
which has given rise to widely differing views as to its
effect. In considering the present question we may assume that the court below was righi in saying of that
opinion:
" It held that the claims to the first step of the process,
and to the product resultant therefrom-the glue basewere anticipated by Gerson & Sachse, and hence that the
glue base, as a product and as the foundation of the second step in Perkins' process, was an old and unpatentable
product. It found that Perkins' glue had the novelty
and merit claimed for it. It sustained the claims to the
compound two-step process, and to some extent at least,
the claims to the ultimate product, and did not sustain
the claims to the second-step process. No attention was
paid to any distinctions in the different kinds of solva
base that were involved. Its treatment of the process
claims to the second-step process is open to the interpretation-and we think it the right one-that the Court
considered those claims broad enough to covet the specified treatment as applied to any starch base however

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

high in viscosity, and employing water to any extent, and
even though the product would not approximate Perkins
glue; and hence thought them invalid. If that view is
correct they were too broad. At the conclusion of its
opinion the court said that the decree 'below sustaining
the claims for the glue base and [first step] product, and
for the so-called second step as such, is reversed, and that
part of it which upholds the claims of the patent for the
final process and the resultant product is.affirmed.'"
We may assume also the correctness of the view of the
court below that the effect of this decision was to sustain
broadly the claim to the resultant product, the glue described in claims 28, 30 and 31, as distinguished from the
intermediate product which was the resultant of the first
step and was found to be old, and that the product claims
thus upheld included a starch glue having substantially
the properties of animal glue whether made by the employment of both steps of the compound process or not.
As a result of this decree the plaintiff filed a disclaimer
of all the claims for the glue base itself and all those for
the first process step. It also disclaimed from the second
process step "any process of making glue, excepting
where the starch or starchy product or carbohydrate subjected to the process, is degenerated to the extent described [in the patent], whereby the, process results in
the good as animal glue described" in the patent. Again
we assume that the court below was right in saying that
the effect of the disclaimer as to the second step claims
was to limit them to a process where the material with
which the second process step begins is any starch in fact
degenerated to the point necessary to produce the result
at which the second process step is aimed, whether the degeneration is effected by the first step or other artificial
process, or the suitable starch is a natural agricultural
product, sufficiently degenerated without chemical treatment and purchaseable in commercial quantities.

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 253
245

Opinion of the Court.

The second step process as narrowed by the disclaimer
consists in the selection of a starch suitably degenerated,
no matter how, and the treatment of it with an alkali as
in the Gerard and Dornemann patents, but by the terms
of the disclaimer only such starches are suitable, that
is to say, fall within the range of selection, which, when
treated by the second step process, will produce a glue
as good as animal glue for veneering. The use or function of the resultant glue is made the measure or test of
the choice of its ingredients.
Apparently no brand of raw starch which Perkins could
procure in commercial quantities when conducting his experiments could be used as a glue base without the artificial degeneration of his first step. But it appears that the
defendant has been able to purchase in such quantities a
siarch which is a natural agricultural product having a
low water absorptiveness and other characteristics making it suitable for use as a glue base. Beginning with this
starch the petitioner mixes the starch with three parts
of water or less and approximately 4% of caustic soda.
The mixture, when agitated and heated, produces a glue
which the petitioner says is heavier than animal glue,
but which is used commercially as a substitute for it
and which, for present purposes, may be taken as having
substantially the qualities of animal glue. Whether the
result may be attributed wholly to reduced viscosity of
the starch, due to changed methods of cultivation or
manufacture, or in some measure to peculiarities of
petitioner's dissolving operation does not appear.
Petitioner contends that the raw starch selected and
used by it in' the manufacture of its product has high
water absorptive qualities above the range defined by
the patent, not satisfying the tests laid down in the patent for ascertaining whether the appropriate stage of degeneration has been reached for the employment of the
second step. As the process claims are not before us this

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

contention has bearing only upon the broad product
claims which are the subject of the present suit. It is
the contention of the respondent, and the court below
held, that its product claims 28, 30 and 31, concededly
broad enough, as stated, to cover the petitioner's product,
are valid and, in effect, that all starch veneering glues, at
least when mixed with three parts of water or less, having
substantially the properties of animal glue, infringe the
patent whether made by Perkins' process or otherwise.
We take it, as the respondent argues, that product patents or patents of compositions of matter are distinct from
patents of the process by which the product may be produced. The former, if sufficiently described, may exist and
be sustained independently of the latter. Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788; Leeds & Catlin Co. v.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 301, 318. Hence
any narrowing of process claims is not necessarily a narrowing of product claims. So much of the claim as is
saved from the second step of Perkins' process after the
disclaimer and referred to here as a process claim is, in
fact, only the choice of an ingredient of the glue product,
independently of the chemical process of producing it. It
was necessary that the Perkins patent, so far as it is a
patent of a composition of matter, should contain some
description of the ingredients entering into the composition which would both define the invention, Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 247; Wood v. Underhll, 5 How. 1, 5;
Tyler v. Boston, 7 Wall. 327, 330; Bgn6 v. Jeantet, 129
U. S. 683; Howard v. Detroit Stove Works, 150 U. S. 164.
167, and carry it beyond the previous development of
the art. Had Perkins claimed only a glue made of starch
dissolved in three parts of water with an alkali, he would
not have advanced beyond the Gerard and Dornemann
patents and subsequent practice. As his patent discloses,
it was well known that ordinary starch treated in this
manner produced a thick glue unsuitable for wood veneer-

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 255
245

Opinion of the Court.

ing if made with three parts of water, and a thin glue
not strong enough for wood veneering if made with four
parts or more of water.
Perkins' real invention, apart from the combination of
his first and second step processes, with which we are
not now concerned, was that by the use of a particular
kind of starch as an ingredient a new composition of matter was made for which he claimed his patent. Some
description of this product was obviously essential to patentability and Perkins in the reissued patent sought to
meet this necessity in two ways. One was to describe
the product by describing its characteristic ingredient with
particularity. If we look at the specifications, as we may,
he did this by indicating the range of water absorptivity,
or stated in another way the degeneration, of the starch
ingredient in Perkins' glue. As described the starch ingredient fell short of dextrine or soluble starch, but was
of lower water absorptivity than petitioner's glue base.
The glue made of this ingredient within the specified range
was a new product. This was invention of a new composition of matter and was the real contribution Perkins
made to the art. As such it was entitled to the protection
of a patent but as thus described and limited petitioner's
product does not infringe.
To so describe the product is not, as the court below
seemed to think, a limitation of product claims by reference to process claims. A patentable process is a method
of treatment of certain materials to produce a particular
result or product. Cochranev. Deener,94 U. S. 780. The
description of one does not necessarily embrace the other.
Either or both may be patentable. But here we are concerned only with the choice of one ingredient of the product. There can be no description of a composition of
matter without some designation of its ingredients. If
the selection or choice or designation of an essential ingredient of a composition of matter may be referred to,

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

inaccurately as we think, as a process, the "process" is
one inseparable from the composition itself. The dscription of one necessarily limits the other. Hence the patent
of the product cannot extend beyond a product having the
designated ingredient. See Powder Co. v. Powder Works,
98 U. S. 126, 137; Bgne v. Jeantet, supra; Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co. v. Davis, 102 U. S. 222.
Perkins' second way of describing the starch ingredient
of his product was in terms of the use or function of the
product itself. The chosen starch ingredient was to possess
such qualities that when combined with three parts of
water and with alkal it would produce a product "as
good as animal glue" for veneering, or having che properties of animal glue, these properties being described in
terms of its functions. The ingredient was thus described,
not in terms of its own physical characteristics or chemical properties or those of the product, but wholly in terms
of the manner of use of the product. Any glue made of
a starch base, whatever its composition, water absorptiveness or other properties, combined with three parts of
water, as is animal glue used in veneering, and with alkali,
which has substantially the properties of animal glue,
or is as good as animal glue for use in the wood-working
trades, is claimed as Perkins' glue. Thus the inventor
who advances the art by discovery that a certain defined
material may be combined in a product useful for certain
purposes seeks to extend his monopoly to any product
which may subsequently be made from materials not
within any defined range described in the patent, but
which is likewise useful for those purposes.
But an inventor may not describe a particular starch
glue which will perform the function of animal glue and
then claim all starch glues which have those functions, or
even all starch glues made with three parts of water and
alkali, since starch glues may be made with three parts
of water and alkali that do not have those properties.

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 257
245

Opinion of 'the Court.

See The Incandescent Lamp Patent, 159 U. S. 465, 472.
Revised Stat., ยง 4888, requires that the patent shall contain a description of the invention "and of the manner
and process of making, constructing, compounding, and
using it, in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to
enable any person skilled in the art or science to which it
appertains, or with which it is most nearly connected, to
make, construct, compound, and use the same." One attempting to use or avoid the use of Perkins' discovery as
so claimed and described functionally could do so only
after elaborate experimentation. Respondents say that
laboratory tests would be insufficient and that "the best
and probably the only satisfactory test is to try it out on
a large scale in a furniture or veneering gluing factory."
A claim so broad, if allowed, would operate to enable the
inventor who has discovered that a defined type of starch
answers the required purpose to exclude others from all
other types of starch and so foreclose efforts to discover
other and better types. The patent monopoly would thus
be extended beyond the discovery and would discourage
rather than promote invention. The Incandescent Lamp
Patent, supra,476. That the patentee may not by claiming a patent on the result or function of a machine extend
his patent to devices or mechanisms not described in the
patent is well understood. O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 How.
62, 112, 113; Knapp v. Morss, 150 U. S. 221, 228; Electric
Signal Co. v. Hall Signal Co., 114 U. S. 87; Westinghouse
v. Boyden Power Brake Co., 170 U. S. 537; Mitchell v.
Tilghman, 19 Wall. 287; Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288;
Risdon Iron & Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68.
Respondent argues that this principle, applicable to machine patents, is inapplicable to a patent for the composition of matter which is always a result of a process
and. concededly is patentable as such, but the attempt to
broaden product claims by describing the product exOlusively in terms of its use or function is subject to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
277 U. S.

Syllabus.

same vice as is the attempt to describe a patentable device
or machine in terms of its function. As a description of
the invention it is insufficient and if allowed would extend
the monopoly beyond the invention. See B6n6 v. Jeantet,
supra; Cochrane v. Badische Anilin & Soda Fabrik, 111
U. S. 293; The Incandescent Lamp Patent,supra;Matheson v. Campbell, 78 Fed. 910; American Adamite Co. v.
Mesta Machine Co., 18 F. (2d) 538.
So far as respondent seeks to enlarge its product patent
by subordinating the patent description of the starch ingredient which the patentee used, and which respondent
does not use, to the vague and indefinite description in
the three product claims now in suit, the patent is subject
to the same vice.
Reversed.

JENKINS, RECEIVER,

ET AL.

v. NATIONAL SURETY

COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 424. Argued April 11, 12, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
A surety company went on the bond furnished by a bank to secure
repayment on demand of the deposits of a county treasurer up to
a specified amount, and, as part consideration for executing the
bond, took the bank's agreement to indemnify it for any liability
it might thereby sustain or incur. The bank became insolvent
while holding deposits of the treasurer exceeding the amount of the
bond, and the surety, having paid that amount, sought to participate pro rata with him and his surety in the distribution of surplus assets of the bank, basing its claim on the indemnity agreement.
Held1. That a former judgment denying the surety the right to be
subrogated to the creditor's claim and remedies against the debtor
until the creditor had been paid in full, did not bar the surety's
claim under the indemnity agreement. P. 265.

