HEMPHILL /. ORLOFF.
508

Syllabus.

States was obliged to pay the same amount in 'taxes that
it would have been required to 'pay if it had not been a
holder of United States bonds." Not all income earned
in the employment of a state is exempt froi federal taxation, Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,, supra; instrumentalities affecting indirectly or remotely the functions of one
government may nevertheless be taxed by the other,
Gromer v. Standard Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362; Baltimore ShipbuildingCo. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; Fidel-,
ity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania,240 U. S. 319.
Now, the rule which, under the decisions of-this Court,
has been thus narrowly limited, is extended into a new
field; and the Government is forbidden to grant any benefit or immunity to a tax-payer unless it be extended in
addition to the immunity already assured by reason of his
possession of tax-exempt securities. Here, too, the remedy
is not the cancellation of the benefits to others of which
petitioner complains, but the grant Ito it of an added
bounty which Congress has not authorized and which the
Constitution, it seems to me, neither requires Congress
nor permits this Court to give.
MR. JusTic, HoLMEs and MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS join

in this dissent.

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF
ERROR TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF MICHIGAN.

--No. 343. Argued March 7, 8, 1928.,-Decided June 4, 1928.
1. A business association of the kind commonly known as "Massachusetts trusts" or "common law trusts" which, under its organic
instrument and the law of the State where it was formed, is a legal
entity with other attributes like those of corporations, including
exemption of its shareholdes and trustees from personal liability
for the acts and engagements of the association, cannot carry on
local business in another State without that State's express or implied permission. P. 548.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

277 U. S.

2. As in the case of a corporation, and for the same general reasons,
such an association cannot claim for itself in that regard, the privileges and immunities guaranteed to the associates as individuals by
Art. IV, § 2 of the Constitution. P. 550.
3. Whether a given association be called a corporation, partnership or
trust, is not the essential factor in determining whether a State
may forbid or condition the doing of local business; the real nature
of the organization must be considered; if clothed with the ordinary functions and attributes of a corporation, it is subject to
similar treatment. P. 550.
4. Where such an association was unable to enforce a promissory note
in the courts of a foreign State because it had not complied with
statutes conditioning its right to do business there,--held that the
statutes did not deprive the association, its trustees or members of
property without due process of law. P. 551.
5. An investment trust organized in one State was not engaged in
interstate commerce when dealing in negotiable notes within another
State. P. 550.
238 Mich. 508, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan
which affirmed a judgment on a verdict directed for the
defendant, in an action brought by Hemphill on a promissory note drawn payable to the order of a Massachusetts
investment trust, for which he was acting.
Mr. Charles A. Wagner, with whom Mr. Thomas G.
Long was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The citizen of a State has the right to accept a trust
created and conferred by agreement by a natural person,
act as. trustee and conduct the affairs thereof. This is
one of the privileges and immunities guaranteed by § 2,
of Art. IV of the Constitution. The citizen has the same
right to go into each of the several States and there do
business, including the making of contracts and the buying and selling of property, as trustee, as in his individual
capacity. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C.
C. 380; Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352; Farmers Loan

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF.
537

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

& Trust Co. v. Chicago & A. Ry. Co., 27 Fed. 146; Roby
v. Smith; 131 Ind. 344
The statute contravenes that section, and also the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Barnes v.
People, 168 Ill. 425; Hoadley v. Insurance Comm'n, 37
Fla. 564; Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60;
In re Schecther, 63 Fed. 695; Maynard v. Granite State
Provident Ass'n, 92 Fed. 435.
The trust instrument created a true trust. There is no
substantial difference in respect of trusts between the
law of Massachusetts and that of Michigan. Penny v.
Croul, 76 Mich. 471; Taylor v. Davis, 110 U. S. 330;
Packard v. Kingman, 109 Mich. 497; Feldman v. Preston,
194 Mich. 352; Betts v. Hackathorn, 159 Ark. 621;
Neville v. Gifford, 242 Mass. 124; Rand v. Morse, 289
Fed. 339; McCarthy v. Parker, 243 Mass. 465; Rand v.
Farquhar, 226 Mass. 91; Hardee v. Adams Oil Ass'n
(Tex.), 254 S. W. 602; 3 Kent'sComm., 27; Story, Partnership, 6th ed., § 164; Lindley, Partnership, 9th ed.,
§ 268; Hallett v. Dowdall, 18 Q. B. 12; Imperial Shale
Brick Co. v. Jewett, 169 N. Y. 143; Greenwoods Case,
3 De G. M. & G., 459; Mayo v. Moritz, 151 Mass. 481;
Williams v. Boston, 208 Mass. 497; Williams v. Milton,
215 Mass. 1; Frost v. Thompson, 219 Mass. 360; Wrightinton, Unincorporated Ass'n and Business Trust, § 14.
There is not a single power or provision in the trust
instrument that could not properly have been put in the
will of a person who had been conducting such a business
and desired it to be continued. This in and of itself is
determinative of the character of the relation created by
the instrument. See Schumann-Heink v. Folsom, 328
Ill.. 321; Baker v. Stern, 194 Wis. 233.
It is clear that the reason why a State may exclude or
impose conditions on a corporation of another State is
that a corporation is a person in itself, an artificial person,

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

277 U.S.

a mere creature of the law. Dartmouth College case, 4
Wheat. 636; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Paul
v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Louisville R. R. Co. v. Leston,
2 How. 497; Marshall v. B. & 0. R. R., 16 How. 314.
It is to be observed that in each of the first three cases
the corporation had been created by special act of the
sovereign power.
The modern method of granting charters under general
laws to such persons as shall comply with prescribed
formalities has not changed the nature of the organization thus formed.
The decisions of this Court as to the application of the
different revenue laws to these trusts clearly show that
they are not corporations. Eliot v. Freeman, 220 U. S.
178; Crocker v. Malley, 249 U. S. 223;,Hecht v. Malley,
265 U. S. 144; Burk-Waggoner Oil Ass'n v. Hopkins, 269
U. S. 110.
In Great Southern Fireproof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177
U. S. 449, it was held that the right of a partnership association limited organized under the laws of Pennsylvania
to sue in the federal court was dependent upon the citizenship of its shareholders. This organization possessed
far more of the characteristics of a corporation than the
trust here in question.
The contract here sued upon was made in the course
of interstate commerce and is entitled to recognition and
enforcement by Michigan under the Commerce Clause.
The note was given by the defendant in error for the
assignment to her of certain notes for automobile trucks
which had been sold by the Orloff Company to the Trust
and the delivery to her of five of the six trucks covered
by the paper. The Commercial Investment Trust at no
time rented an office in Michigan; it never had a bank
account, furniture, equipment, etc., of any kind in the

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF.
537

541

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

State. It commenced to purchase Michigan automobile
paper in May 1919.
Not only did the instructions themselves require that
the notes, contracts, etc., be sent to New York for ac
ceptance or rejection, but all of these documents and
papers contained in the record show that this practice
was invariably followed. Every transaction between the
Orloff Company and the Trust was examined,, and without exception the papers were sent with accompanying
letter from the Orloff Company to the Trust at New
York; after investigation and acceptance the payments
in the form of drafts on a New York bank or trust company were sent from the Trust there to the Orloff Company at Detroit. The only deviation from this course
was that on one occasion, on Orloff's request for expedition, the Trust, after passing on the papers, sent payment.
by telegraph from New York to the Orloff Company's
bank at Detroit.
The essence of the trust dealing then was that automobile dealers, and later a discount company in Michigan,
seit certain automobile paper to the Trust at New York,
offering it for sale. There it was either purchased or
rejected; if purchased a New York draft was sent from
New York to Michigan in payment.
"This Court will deter'mine for itself whether what was
done by plaintiff-in-error was interstate commerce and
whether the state enactments as applied are repugnant to
the commerce clause," Kansas City Steel Co. v. Arkansas,
269 U. S. 148, 150.
Commercial paper is a. subject of interstate commerce.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Passenger Cases,-7 How.
283; Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259; Western
Union v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347; Pensacola Tel. Co. v.
Western Union, 96 U. S. 1; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

277 U. S.

U. S. 460; InternationalText Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91; Id. v. Lynch, 218 U. S. 664; Id. v. Peterson, 218
U. S. 664.
We submit that the doctrine declaring traffic in commodities to be essential for interstate commerce has been
wholly disproved. The sale and transmission of instruction is unquestionably commerce; the sale and transportation of commercial paper must be the same.
The furnishing of electricity, even though it be delivered only to the state line, is interstate commerce and
beyond the control of the state public utilities commission. Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam &
Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83.
Likewise the transmission of information by wireless
telegraphy, radio, etc., has been held to be commerce.
Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. v. Commonwealth, 218
Mass. 558.
The mere free ranging of cattle over a. state boundary
is interstate commerce. Thornton v. United States, 271
U. S. 414. Likewise, the sale of tickets for interstate
or foreign transportation. DiSanto v. Pennsylvania,273
U. S. 34; Texas Transport Co. v. New Orleans, 246 U. S.
150. Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, distinguished.
That these notes are secured by chattel mortgages does
not change the transaction from one in interstate commerce to a local transaction. York Mfg. Co. v. Colley,
247 U. S.- 21; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Sims, 191
U. S. 441; United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co.,
258 U. S. 451; Lyons v. Federal System of Bakeries, 290
Fed. 793; Vulcan Steam Shovel Co. v. Flanders, 205 Fed.
102; Hcjuston Canning Co. v. Virginia Can Co., 211 Ala.
232; Powvell v. Rountree, 157 Ark. 241; Davis & Warrell
v. General Motors Acceptance Corp'n, 153 Ark. 626;
Jones v. General Motors Acceptance Corp'n, 205 Ky. 227;
General Motors Acceptance Corp'n v. Shadyside Coal

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF.
537

543

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 102 W. Va. 402; General Motors Acceptance Corp'n
v. Lund, 60 Utah, 247.
This transaction being essentially one in interstate
commerce, all instrumentalities and means having a natural relation to the transaction such as the solicitation of
business, collection, etc., were available without State
interference. Atlantic Coast Line v. Standard Oil Co.,
275 U. S. 257; International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91; Cheney Bros. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147;.
Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.
203; Robbins v. Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Brennan
v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Davis
v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 697; Rearick .v. Pennsylvania;203
U. S. 507; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Rogers
v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 401; Stewart v. Michigan, 232
U. S. 665; Penna. Ry. Co. v. Sonman Shaft Coal- Co.,
242 U. S. 120; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant,. 257
U. S. 282; -Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197;
York Mfg. Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
Mr. Isadore Levin, with whom Mr. Heiry M. Butzel
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSncE

McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error, Vice-President of the payee and
acting for it, sued Mrs. Orloff, in the Circuit Court,
Wayne County, Michigan, on her promissory note payable to the Cornmercial Investment Trust, or order,
executed at Detroit, Michigan, July 22, 1921. She defended upon the ground, among others, that the payee
was a foreign corporation within the meaning of the
Michigan statutes; that it had not complied therewith;
and, consequently, could not maintain the action. Both

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

the trial and Supreme Court of the State sustained this
defense.
Relevant provisions of the statutes follow-Mich.
Compiled Laws, 1915:
"Sec. 9063. It shall be unlawful for any corporation
organized under the laws of any state of the United
States, except the state of Michigan, or of any foreign
country, to carry on its business in this state, until it
shall have procured from the secretary of state of this
.
state a certificate of authority for that purpose.
"Sec. 9068. No foreign corporation, subject to the provisions of this act, shall be capable of making a valid
contract in this state until it shall have fully complied
with the requirements of this act, and at the time holds
an iinrevoked certificate to that effect from the secretary of state."
"Sec. 9071. The term 'corporations' as used in this
act shall be construed to include all associations, partnership associations and joint stock companies having any
of the powers or privileges of corporations, not possessed
by individuals or partnerships, under whatever term or
designation they may be defined and known in the state
where organized."
The Commercial Investment Trust-hereinafter the
Trust-is of the class commonly known as "Massachusetts Trusts" or "Common Law Trusts." The following
statement sufficiently indicates the general features of
the lengthy "Agreement and Declaration of Trst" under
which it was organized at Boston, Mass., March 29, 1915.
The business of the association shall be conducted
under the name specified for the trustees in their collective capacity-The Commercial Investment Trust. They
may adopt another. Seven are designated; their successors shall be elected for terms of two years at annual
shareholders' meetings, each share being entitled to one
vote, which may be cast by proxy.

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF.
537

545

Opinion of the Court.

Wide powers are granted to the trustees to buy and
sell stocks, bonds, negotiable securities, personal and real
property, to loan money, etc., and generally to manage
and conduct the trust as fully as if they were the absolute owners of the estate; also they shall have power,
but without obligation on their part, to execute any and
all instruments and to do any and all things not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, the execution or performance of which they may deem expedient. They
may appoint and define the duties of officers and agents.
"But the trustees shall not have any power or authority
to borrow money on the credit or on behalf of the Shareholders or to make any contract on their behalf for repayment of any money raised by mortgagepledge, charge
or other incumbrances in pursuance of the provisions
hereof, or to make any contract'or incur any liability
whatever on behalf of the Shareholders or binding them
personally."
"Trustees shall hold the legal title to, and have the
absolute and exclusive control of, all property at any
time belonging to this trust subject only to the specific
limitations herein contained; they shall have the absolute
control, management and disposition thereof."
"The death or resignation of the trustees, or any of
them, shall not operate to annul the trust or to revoke
any existing agency created pursuant to the terms of
this instrument."
"Every note, bond, contract, instrument, certificate,
share or undertaking and every other act or thing whatsoever executed or done by the trustees or any-.of them
in connection with the trust hereby created, shall be
conclusively taken to have been executed or done only
in their or his capacity of trustee or trustees under this
agreement and such trustee Or trustees shall. not be personally liable thereon."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The trustees and shareholders are exempted from personal liability.*
Shareholders' meetings shall be held annually for the
purpose of electing trustees. Interest in the estate shall
be evidenced solely by certificates for participation shares,
to be regarded as personal property. A shareholder's
death shall not operate to determine the trust nor entitle
the decedent's representative to an accounting or to take
action in the courts -or elsewhere, against the trustees.
Shareholders shall have no title in the trust property or
right to call for partition, division, or accounting. The
*" No recourse shall at any time be had under or upon any note,
bond, contract, instrument, certificate, undertaking, obligation, covenant, or agreement issued or executed by the trustees under or pursuant to the terms of this agreement or in managing the trust estate,
or by the Executive Committee or any .member thereof, or by any
officer or agent of the Trustees, or by reason of anything done or
omitted to be done by them or any of them against the trustees individually or against the members of the Committee or against any
such officer or agent or against any shareholder, or the holder of any
other security issued by the trustees, either directly or indirectly, by
legal or equitable proceeding, or by virtue of any suit or otherwise,
except only to compel the proper application or distribution of the
trust estate, it being expressly understood and agreed that this agreement and all obligations and instruments executed thereunder are
executed pursuant hereto by the trustees and any acts done or
omitted to be done by them are solely the obligations, instruments,
acts and omissions of or in respect of the trust estate and that all
the obligations, instruments, liabilities, covenants and agreements,
acts and omissions of the trustees as trustees shall be enforced against
and be atisfied out of the trust estate only, or such part thereof as
shall, under the terms and provisions of this agreement, be liable for
or chargeable therewith, and all personal and individual liability of
the trustees, except as above stated, and of the members of the Executive Committee, and all officers and agents, and of the shareholders and all beneficiaries of the trust, are hereby expressly waived and
negatived. The trustees and their agents are not authorized to contract any debt or do anything which will charge the shareholders or
bind them personally,"

HEMPIILL v, ORLOFF.
537

Opinion of the Court.

trustees shall have no power to call upon shareholders for
any sum of money or assessment whatever, except such
as they may agree to pay.
"The trustees, may, from time to time, distribute to
the shareholders such receipts or other parts of the trust
estate as they shall determine. The amount and conditions of such payments shall be determined by the
trustees."
"For any of the purposes of the trust the number of
shares may, from time to time, be increased or reduced by
the trustees. In case the number of shares is increased,
the additional shares shall be issued and disposed of upon
such terms and in such manner as the trustees may
determine."
The trust shall continue until the death of the last survivor of seven named individuals.
Concerning Voluntary Associations, ch. 182, General
Laws of Massachusetts, 1921, Vol. 2, p. 2077, provides"Sec. 2. The Trustees of an association shall file a copy
of the written instrument or declaration of trust creating it with the commissioner and with the clerk of
every town where such association has a, usual place of
business.

.

"Sec. 6. An association may be sued in an action at law
for debts and other obligations or liabilities contracted or
incurred by the trustees, or by the duly authorized agents
of such trustees, or by any duly authorized officer of the
association, in the performance of their respective duties
under such written instruments or declarations of trusts,
and for any damages to persons or property resulting
from the negligence of such trustees, agents or officers
acting in the performance of their respective .duties, and
its property shall be subject to attachment and execution
in like manner as if it were a corporation, and service of
process upon one of the trustees shall be sufficient"
Gen. Acts Mass., 1916, ch. 184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The Massachusetts courts give effect to agreements
like the one here described, recognize the entity of associations organized thereunder, and hold both trustees and
shareholders exempt from personal liability. See Hussey
v. Arnold, 185 Mass. 202; Williams v. Milton, 215 Mass.
1, and cases cited; Frost v. Thompson, 219 Mass.-360.
It was held by the court below that the Trust must
be regarded as a corporation within intendment..of the
Michigan statutes which could not lawfully carry on
local business within the State or make valid contracts
in connection therewith without having complied with
prescribed requirements. There was no attempt to comply therewith.
Plaintiff in error insists that, as construed by the Supreme Court, the statutes of Michigan deny to the trustees, collectively called "Commercial Investment Trust,"
the benefits of Section 2, Article IV, of the Constitution.
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States."
Also that they deprive the trustees of property without
due process of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment
and restrain interstate commerce.
It is settled doctrine that a corporation organized under
the laws of one state may not carry on local business
within another without the latter's permission, either express or implied. A corporation is not a mere collection
of individuals capable of claiming all benefits assured
them by Section 2, Article IV, of the Constitution. Bank
of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters 519, 584, 586, 587; Paul v.
Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Western Turf Association v. Greenberg, 204 U. S.359, 363. See also SlaughterHouse Cases,
16 Wall. 3,6, 77. In the first of the causes just cited, Chief
Justice Taney, for the Court, said"It is true, that in the case referred to, [United States
Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch 61] this Court decided that
in a question of jurisdiction they might look to the char-

HEMPHILL v. ORLOFF.
537

Opinion of the Court.

acter of the persons composing a corporation; and if it
appeared that they were citizens of another state, and the
fact was set forth by proper averments, the corporation
might sue in its corporate name in the courts of the
United States.
"But the principle has never been extended any farther
than it was carried in that case; and has never been supposed to extend to contracts made by a corporation;
especially in another sovereignty. If it were held to embrace contracts, and that the members of a corporation
were to be regarded as individuals carrying on business in
their corporate name, and therefore entitled to the privileges of citizens, in matters of contract, it is very clear
that they must at the same time take upon themselves
the liabilities of citizens, and be bound by their contracts
in like manner. The result of this would be to make a
corporation a mere partnership in business, in which each
stockholder would be liable to the whole extent of his
property- for the debts of the corporation; and he might
be sued for them, in any state in which he might happen
to be found.
"The clause of the Constitution referred to certainly
never intended to give to the citizens of each state the
privileges of citizens in the several states, and at the same
time to exempt them from the liabilitids which the exercise of such privileges would bring upon individuals who
were citizens of the state. This would be to give the citizens of other states far higher and greater privileges than
are enjoyed by the citizens of the state itself. Besides, it
would deprive every state of all control over the extent
of corporate franchises proper to be granted in the state;
and corporations would be chartered in one, to carry on
their operations in another. It is impossible upon any
sound principle to give such a construction to the article
in question.
"Whenever a corporation makes a contract, it is the
contract of the legal entity; of the artificial being created

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

by the charter; and not the contract of the individual
members. The only rights it can claim are the rights
which are given to it in that character, and not the right6
which belong to its members as citizens of a state; and we
now proceed to inquire what rights the plaintiffs in error,
a corporation created by Georgia, could lawfully exercise
in another state; and whether the purchase of the bill of
exchange on which this suit is brought was a valid contract, and obligatory on the parties."
Obviously the Trust here involved, is a creature of local
law which demands the privilege of carrying on business
in Michigan as an association-an entity-clothed with
peculiar rights and privileges under a deed of settlement
undertaking to exempt all of the associates from personal
liability. As in the case of a corporation, and for the same
general reasons, it cannot rely upon rights guaranteed to
the individuals.
Whether a given association is called a corporation,
partnership, or trust, is not the essential factor in determining the powers of a state concerning it. The real
nature of the organization must be considered. If clothed
with the ordinary functions and attributes of a corporation, it is subject to similar treatment. This was distinctly pointed out in Oliver v. The Liverpool & London
Life & FireIns. Co., 100 Mass. 531, affirmed here sub nom.
Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 10 Wall. 566. See
also Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162; Hecht
v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144; Burk-Waggoner Oil Assn. v.
Hopkins, 269 U. S. 110; Hamilton v. Young, 116 Kan.
128; Weber Engine Co. v. Alter, 120 Kan. 557; State v.
Hinkle, 126 Wash. 581; State v. Paine, 137 Wash. 566.
Upon the facts disclosed, the court below held the Trust
was carrying on the business of dealing in negotiable notes
within the State of Michigan; and we find no reason for
rejecting that conclusion. Such business is not interstate
commerce. Nathanv. Louisiana,8 How. 73; Paul v. Vir-

WILLIAMSPORT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
537

551

Argument for Petitioner.

ginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 162;
Bluinenstock Bros. v. CurtisPub. Co., 252 U. S. 436, 443.
What we have already said shows plainly enough the
insubstantial nature of the suggestion that the questioned
statutes deprive the Trust, its trustees or members, of
property without due process of law.
The judgment of the Court below must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
WILLIAMSPORT WIRE ROPE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 337. Argued April 24, 25, 1928.-Decided June 4, 1928.
1. The power of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in determining whether a corporation is entitled, under § 327 (a) and (b) of
the Revenue Act of 1918, to have its war and excess profits taxes
fixid by a special assessment under § 328 by a comparison with the
taxes of other, representative corporations engaged in a like or
similar trade or business, is discretionary in character; and the
power of the Board of Tax Appeals in reviewing such determination under the Revenue Act of 1924 is likewise discretionary, and
executive, in character. Pp. 558, 562.
2. Under the Act ot 1918, the Court of Claims, in a suit to recover
taxes alleged to have been illegally collected, was without jurisdiction to review a determination of the Commissioner refusing a
special assessment under §§ 327 and 328; nor was such jurisdiction
conferred on that court as the result of the provision made in the
Act of 1924 for review of the Commissioner's determination by the
Board of Tax Appeals. Pp. 561, 562.
63 Ct. Cls. 463, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 520, to a judgment of the Court

of Claims dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, a claim for
the amount of an alleged overpayment of war and excess
prpfits taxes.
, r. James Walton, with whom Mr. Clarence A. Miller
was on the brief, for petitioner.

