STEWART v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
282

Counsel for Parties.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of
opinion that the order as modified should be enforced except with respect to the alleged discriminatory discharges
7.

of Warner, Jr., and Jordan, which they think are without
the support of substantial evidence.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSOTr took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

STEWART, ADMINISTRATOR, v. SOUTHERN
RAILWAY CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 161. Argued January 8, 1942.-Decided February 16, 1942.
Evidence, in a railway accident case, held insufficient to sustain a
finding on the issue whether the coupling mechanism between two
freight cars was such as to comply with the Federal Safety Appliance Act. P. 286.
119 F. 2d 85, reversed.

U. S. 591, to review a judgment which
reversed a recovery by the administrator of a deceased
railway employee in an action against the railway company for personal injuries and death. See also 115 F.
2d 85.
CERTIORARI, 314

Messrs. William H. Allen and Charles M. Hay for petitioner..
*On petition for rehearing, it appearing that the parties had settled the case, the judgment of the Court in this case was vacated,
that of the Court of Appeals reversed, and the case remanded to the
District Court with directions that it be dismissed as moot, post,
p. 784.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. Wilder
Lucas, Arnot L. Sheppard, Walter N. Davis, H. O'B.
Cooper, and S. R. Prince were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought by the administratrix of
Stewart's estate to recover for his death in consequence
of a violation of the Safety Appliance Act.' The crew
of which the intestate was a member was engaged in
couplig freight cars. Stewart was on the engineer's
side of the train. He gave a back-up signal with which
the engineer complied and then a stop signal which was
obeyed. The engineer saw him go between the ends of
the last car of the train and the car that was to be coupled
to it. While the train was stationary, this car drifted
into collision with the end car of the train. Persons who
responded to Stewart's cries found him with his arm
crushed between the couplers, both of which were
closed. His arm was amputated and a few days later he
died.
The administratrix, pursuant to leave of a state probate court, executed a release in consideration of $5,000
paid her. Subsequently she alleged in that court that
she had been fraudulently induced to settle the case, and
sought authority to rescind the release. The court decided against her after full hearing.
In the present action the plaintiff offered testimony as
to the circumstances of the accident. The respondent
relied upon the release; offered evidence to prove death
was due to causes other than the injury, but introduced
no testimony as to what occurred at the time of Stewart's
145 U. S. C. ยง 2.

STEWART v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
283

-

285

Opinion of the Court.

injury, or as to the condition of the couplers. The trial
court ruled that the decision of the probate court on the
issue of fraud in procuring the release was not res judicata, and submitted to the jury all issues, including that
of the validity of the release. A verdict was rendered
for petitioner for $17,500. It does not appear whether
this sum was intended to be in addition to the $5,000
theretofore received by the administratrix. The judgment entered was for the amount of the verdict without
credit for that sum.
The respondent appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The petitioner was substituted for the administratrix, who had died. Judgment non obstante veredicto was denied but the judgment was reversed and
the cause remanded for a new trial, for errors in the
charge to the jury.' On motion of both parties a rehearing was accorded. The court then held there was no substantial evidence to sustain the verdict, and reversed and
remanded with directions to enter a judgment for the respondent.3 This Court granted certiorari.
The record contains no direct evidence as to any defect
in the coupler mechanisms of the cars involved in the
accident. Each was equipped with an automatic coupler
having a "pin lifter," whereby the pin in the coupler can
be lifted so as to allow the jaw of the coupler to swing
into the open position. The purpose of the device is to
permit a switchman to open the coupler into the position
where it will engage with the coupler of the other car
upon impact without the operator going between the ends
of the cars. The engineer, a witness for petitioner, testified that he did not see the intestate attempt to use the
pin lifter, but did see him go between the cars. The foreman of the crew, also a witness for the petitioner, testified
2115

F. 2d 317.

8119 F. 2d 85.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

that when he arrived the jaws of both couplers were
closed and decedent's arm had been crushed between
them. He testified that after the accident he coupled the
cars in question by going between the cars and opening
the jaw of the coupler by hand. He stated that he tried
to use the pin lifter on the car at the end of the train,
which would be the one available on the side of the train
on which he was working. He also testified that if the
coupler was in working order it could be set by the use of
the pin lifter. He was not asked, and did not state, what
effort he made to operate the pin lifter. Neither party
asked him any further questions as to the working condition of the pin lifter or coupler.
The petitioner insists that, in the absence of evidence
on behalf of the respondent, as to the condition of the
coupler, the jury were entitled to infer that the pin lifter
was not in working order, otherwise the foreman, an experienced man, would not have gone between the cars and
opened the coupler jaw by hand. The court below held
the jury was not entitled to draw this inference in the
absence of testimony by the foreman with respect to his
efforts to use the pin lifter and as to its condition.
We hold that, on this record, neither party is entitled
to prevail. If the issue as to the condition of the coupler
mechanism was determinative, a new trial should have
been ordered so that this issue might have been resolved
in the light of a full examination of the foreman, the witness who could have given further testimony on the
subject.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
to the court below for further, proceedings. We express
no opinion on other errors assigned in the Circuit Court
of Appeals which may affect the disposition of the cause
by that court.
Reversed.

STEWART v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
283
MR.

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

JusrIcE BLACK, dissenting:

The jury found from the evidence before it that the

railroad had, contrary to the Federal Safety Appliance
Act, used cars "not equipped with couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without
the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars."
45 U. S. C. ยง 2. The trial judge, who alone of the judges
in the several proceedings below had the opportunity to
see and hear the witnesses as well as to observe a coupling
apparatus brought into the court room as an exhibit, made
it clear that he regarded the evidence as sufficient to support the jury's verdict both by submitting the issues to
it and by denying a new trial. The Circuit Court of
Appeals took the same position in its first opinion. 115
F. 2d 317. Solicitude for the right to trial by jury on
issues of fact prompted the adoption of the Seventh
Respect for
Amendment as part of the Bill of Rights
in
my
judgment,
by
jury
should,
the institution of trial
prompt us to leave undisturbed the jury's finding in this
case tihAt the coupler was defective.
Because it must rely on the written page rather than
living words, an appellate court can never fully appreciate the effect of testimony heard by a jury of local citizens. Even in the written record, however, I can find
support for the jury's finding which convinces me that it
should stand. The transcript shows the following:
If a pin lifter functions properly, there will be automatic coupling of the cars, making it unnecessary for a
workman to go between them. Stewart was an experi'Amendment VII: "In Suits at common law, where the value in
controversy shall, exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury
shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise
re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to

the rules of the common law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J, dissenting.

315 U. S.

enced workman. Besides being his duty, it was conducive
to his safety for him to use the pin lifter to bring about
coupling. On the day he was found with his arm crushed
between the couplers, he had successfully handled the
coupling of other cars.
The crew foreman who shortly after the accident undertook the caupling of the particular cars between which
Stewart was crushed testified as follows:
"Q. Now, after this accident, when you coupled the
cars, which I presume you did, did you couple the cars
after the accident?
"A. I did.
"Q. How did you open the knuckle?
"A. I opened it with my hand.
"Q. Let me ask you, Mr. Stogner, if the coupler is
working automatically, or the pin lifter, is it necessary to
go in between the cars to open with your hands then?
"A. No, sir."
And in the course of cross examination by the company's attorney, whose questions indicated he accepted
the fact that Stogner had tried without success to use the
pin lifter, Stogner was asked: "Now, which knuckle did
you try to open, or which pin lifter did you try to use?"
His reply-"The one on the north side"-designated the
one connected with the coupler which had caused
Stewart's death.
Had Stogner's attempts with the pin lifter been successful, he would not have had to go between the cars to
couple them. But that was what he testified he did after
trying to raise the pin lifter. True, Stogner did not say
how many attempts he made, nor how much force he
applied in the effort. But the jury could reasonably have
inferred that the company's foreman, a worker of many
years of experience, applied such force as would have
raised a pin lifter which was not defective. Moreover,
since there was a statutory duty not to continue using

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
283

289

Syllabus.

this particular pin lifter if it was defective, we can reasonably assume that the railroad's inspectors made some
examination of it. Yet no inspector nor anyone else was

called by the railroad t6 give testimony on the condition
of the pin lifter immediately after the accident.2 Under
these circumstances, reasonable jurors are not to be denied the right to make inferences which other reasonable
people would make: that Stogner tried in the usual way
to couple the cars; that his efforts were unsuccessful; and

that he was therefore compelled to go between the cars
to effect a coupling. And they could therefore have concluded that the pin lifter was defective. The jury's finding of this fact should not have been disturbed.
MR. JUSTICE Rmm, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
JUSTICE MURPHY join in this dissent.

and MR.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL
CORPORATION ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 8. Argued December 9, 1941.--Decided February 16, 1942.
1. Contracts made in the emergency of war between the Fleet Corporation and a shipbuilding company, for the construction of
ships for the United States, provided that the price to be paid
the builder should include the actual cost of the ships and two
elements of profit, (1) a fixed amount calculated on an agreed
Cf. Ridge v. Norfolk Southern R. Co., 167 N. C. 510, 521, 83 S. E.
762; Kirby v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S. 379, 383; Interstate Circuit v.
United States, 306 U. S. 208, 225-226.
*Together with Nd. 9, United States Shipping Board Merchant
Fleet Corporation v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Ltd., also
on writ of certiorari, 311 U. S. 632, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

