YOUNG v. UNITED STATES.

257,

Opinion of the Court.

YOUNG v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 86. Argued December 17, 1941.-Decided February 2, 1942.
1. On review of a conviction in a criminal case, the Government's
confession of error, though entitled to great weight, does not
relieve the Court of its duty to examine independently the errors
confessed. P. 258.
2. The second proviso of § 6 of the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act,
as amended, which requires "any manufacturer, producer, compounder, or vendor (including dispensing physicians)" to keep
a record of all sales, exchanges, or .gifts of certain preparations
and remedies, does not apply to physicians administering to
patients whom they personally attend. P. 259.
119 F. 2d 399, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S.595, to review the affirmance of

a conviction for violation of the Harrison Anti-Narcotic
Act.
Mr. Fred Patterson submitted for petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney General Berge and Messrs. Oscar A. Provost, Louis
B. Schwartz, and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief,

for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

Petitioner, a practicing physician, was convicted on
eight counts of an indictment charging violation of § 6 of
the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act, as -mended.' That section, so far as here material, provides:
"That the provisions of this Act shall not be construed
to apply to the manufacture, sale, distribution, giving
140

Stat. 1132, 26 U. S. C. Supp. V, § 2551 (a) and (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

away, dispensing, or possession of preparations and remedies which do not contain more than two grains of opium
. . . in one fluid ounce . . .: Provided, That such remedies and preparations are manufactured, sold, distributed,
given away, dispensed, or possessed as medicines and not
for the purpose of evading the intentions and provisions
of this Act: Provided further, That any manufacturer,
producer, compounder, or vendor (including dispensing
physicians) of the preparations and remedies mentioned
in this section lawfully entitled to manufacture, produce,
compound, or vend such preparations and remedies, shall
keep a record of all sales, exchanges, or gifts of such preparations and remedies . . ."
The evidence is undisputed that petitioner gave the
preparations in the quantities charged in the indictment
to patients whom he personally attended. He kept no
records. His defense, that the second proviso of § 6 is not
an independent and affirmative requirement but merely.a
condition precedent to the exemption created by that section, was rejected by the court below, which took the position that the second proviso is an unconditional requirement that all vendors of exempt preparations keep
records2
The Government confessed error and we brought the
case here. 314 U. S. 595.
The public trust reposed in the law enforcement officers
of the Government requires that they be quick to confess
error when, in their opinion, a miscarriage of justice may
result from their remaining silent. But such a confession
does not relieve this Court of the performance of the judicial function. The considered judgment of the law enforcement officers that reversible error has been committed is entitled to great weight, but our judicial
obligations compel us to examine independently the errors
2

119 F. 2d 399.

YOUNG v. UNITED STATES.
257

Opinion of the Court.

confessed. See Parlton v. United States, 75 F. 2d 772.
The public interest that a result be reached which promotes
a well-ordered society is foremost in every criminal proceeding. That interest is entrusted to our consideration
and protection as well as to that of the enforcing officers.
Furthermore, our judgments are precedents, and the
proper administration of the criminal law cannot be left
merely to the stipulation of parties. Cf. Rex v. Wilkes, 4
Burr. 2527, 2551, 98 Eng. Rep. 327; State v. Green, 167
Wash. 266, 9 P. 2d 62.
The Government's confession of error was originally
two-fold: first, that while the second proviso of § 6 was
subject to two possible constructions, the administrative
construction had been that it was not an independent
penal provision, and therefore the ambiguity should be
resolved in favor of petitioner; and, secondly, that the second proviso, even if it be regarded as an independent penal
provision, does not apply to a physician who administers
exempt preparations solely to patients whom he personally
attends. Upon reconsideration the Government has withdrawn its first ground of confession of error. We put to
one side that question, since we are of opinion that there
must be a reversal on the second ground.
Assuming, without deciding, that the second proviso
of § 6 is an independent penal provision, it requires that
records be kept only by "any manufacturer, producer,
compounder, or vendor (including dispensing physicians)." We think that Congress, by the use of the words
"dispensing physicians," meant to exclude physicians administering to patients whom they personally attend.
That not all physicians are required to keep records is
manifest from the use of the qualifying adjective "dispensing." And, the physician must be one who manufactures, produces, compounds, or vends, or possibly only
one who vends if the parenthetical phrase applies only to
"vendor," the drugs. These are not appropriate words to

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

describe the function of a physician who administers
exempt preparations to patients whom he personally
attends.
This construction is borne out by a consideration of the
Act as a Whole. The word "administer" more appropriately describes the activities of a doctor in personal attendance than does the word "dispense." Admittedly, the
words "dispense" and "dispensing" are used in several
senses in the Act, but Congress evidently was aware of the
differentiation between "administer" and "dispense," for,
when it wished to include all possible functions of physicians with respect to drug distribution; it used both terms
in conjunction. Section 1 of the Act in defining those required to pay a special tax speaks of "physicians... lawfully entitled to distribute, dispense, give away, or
administer," and makes it unlawful for any person "to purchase, sell, dispense or distribute" any drugs otherwise
than in and from the original stamped package, excepting
the "dispensing, or administration, or giving away of any
of the aforesaid drugs to a patient" by a practitioner where
"dispensed or administered to the patient for legitimate
medical purposes."
Section 4 exempts from the prohibition of interstate
shipments and deliveries of drugs by persons who have not
registered and paid a special tax deliveries by "any person
who shall deliver any such drug which has been prescribed
or dispensed by a physician." The omission of the word
"administer" indicates that Congress recognized that shipments and deliveries would ordinarily not be involved
where the physician was administering while in personal
attendance.
In § 2 (a), dealing with true narcotics, Congress unequivocally exempted physicians from record keeping
where in personal attendance upon patients. It is difficult
to perceive why a different requirement should obtain
when a physician, under similar circumstances, administers

YOUNG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

257

preparations containing only a limited amount of narcotics, such as the paregoric, cough syrup, etc., involved in
this case. The word "dispense" is evidently used in § 2 (a)
in a sense broad enough to include personal administration of drugs by an attending doctor, but the express exception of the personal attendance cases removes any
ambiguity as to the scope of "dispense" in this context.
The construction of the parenthetical phrase "(including dispensing physicians)" as encompassing only doctors
who would be covered by the word "vendor" does not imply
that Congress was tautologic, but rather that it acted cautiously to preclude any contention that physicians selling
drugs were not "vendors" because of their professional
status.
The legislative history of the second proviso of § 6 supports the view that the words "dispensing physicians" were
intended to apply only to physicians acting as dealers in
the sale of drugs. The phrase "vendor (including dispensing physician)" was substituted for "the dealer who
knowingly sells" exempt preparations.'
Upon the evidence in this case, petitioner was not a "dispensing physician" within the meaning of the second proviso of § 6. The judgment is reversed and the cause
remanded to the United States District Court for the Territory of Hawaii for such further proceedings as may be
required in tbw light of this opinion.
Revers'ed.
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

' See 57 Cong. Rec. 771 and H. Rept. No. 1037, 65th Cong., 3d Sess.,
pp. 37, 87-88.

In offering the committee amendment which embodied the recordkeeping requirement, Senator McCumber said:
"Before the committee there was a proposition made compelling
druggists who compounded any of these habit-forming drugs also to
keep a list of the persons to whom they furnished them, a list of the
goods, and so forth." 57 Cong. Rec. 771.

