CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
DUNCAN v. THOMPSON, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT
MISSOURI.

OF APPEALS

OF

No. 78. Argued December 16, 1941.-Decided January 12, 1942.
1. An agreement between an injured railway employee and the railway employer, made after the injury, whereby, in consideration of a
payment "for living and other expenses pending furthfr developments as to the extent and effect of said injuries and negotiations
for settlement of [his] claim," the employee agrees that he will endeavor, in good faith, to adjust and settle any claim he may have for
his injuries without resorting to litigation, but that if his claim is not

so adjusted, and he elects to bring suit, he will first return the sum
paid and such return shall be a prerequisite to the filing and maintenance of any such suit, is void under § 5 of the Federal Employers

Liability Act. P. 6.
2. Such an agreement is nota compromise or conditional compromise.

P. 7.
146 S. W. 2d 112, reversed.

CERTIORARI 314 U. S. 589, to review a judgment of the
Springfield Court of Appeals which reversed a recovery
for personal injuries secured by the present petitioner in
a court of first instance in Missouri. An -application to
the supreme court of the State for a writ of certiorari was
declined.
Mr. Harry G. Waltner, Jr., with whom Mr. John Mob-

erly was on the brief, for-petitioner.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Mr. John H. Flanigan, with whom Messrs. Thos. J.
Cole and Allen McReynolds were on the brief, for
respondent.
The contract was a covenant not to sue. A covenant
not to sue is in the nature of a contract of release.
If the Federal Employers Liability Act does not prohibit an injured claimant from releasing his cause of.
action for a consideration, by parity of reasoning it ought
to be held that the Act does not prohibit him from covenanting, for a consideration, not to sue on his cause of
action.
Every court which has considered the question has
come to the conclusion that the Congress, by § 5 of the
Act, did not intend to prohibit an injured claimant from
compromising his disputed claim and from releasing the
same.
The courts and text writers are unanimous in saying
that the purpose of Congress was to prohibit employer
and employee, before injury of the latter, from contracting
to exempt the employer from the liability created by the
Act, and not to prevent the parties from contracting after
injury.
Petitioner, having accepted the substantial sum of
$600 in consideration of his covenant not to sue, can not
disaffirm his covenant and sue in violation of it while
clinging to the fruits of the contract which he affects to
disaffirm.
MR. JusricE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
April 10, 1936, petitioner Duncan, while performing
duties as respondent's employee, fell from a locomotive
and was injured. Since at the time he was working for
a "common carrier by railroad" and in interstate commerce, the right to recover damages is governed by the

DUNCAN v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Federal Employers' Liability Act. 35 Stat. 65. Sixteen
months later, August 13, 1937, Duncan was still suffering
from his injuries, his wife was in the hospital, and he
needed money. On that day, upon Duncan's signing an
instrument presented to him by the company's claim
agent, he was paid $600 "for living and other expenses
pending further developments as to *theextent and effect
of said injuries and negotiations for settlement of [his]
claim." The instrument also stated that:
"In consideration of said payment of $600.00, I agree
with said Trustee that I will endeavor, in good faith, to
adjust and settle any claim I may have for my injuries
without resorting to litigation, but I agree that if my claim
is not so adjusted, and I elect to bring suit, I will first
return the said sum of $600.00 to said Trustee and said
return shall be a prerequisite to the filing and maintenance
of any such suit."
About eight months later, April 4, 1938, negotiations
for settlement not having been successful, Duncan, without returning the $600, sued the respondent in a Missouri
state court, charging that his injuries resulted from the
negligence of the respondent's servants or agents. Among
other pleadings, the respondent filed a plea in abatement
alleging that "this suit and action have been begun and
commenced by plaintiff without the pre-requisite return
to defendant trustee of said sum of $600, . . . and this
action is pre-mature and should be dismissed by the
Court." Duncan replied that the agreement, so far as it
purported to create a 'condition precedent to bringing
suit, was void under § 5 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, 66, which in part provides:
"Any contract, rule, regulation, or device whatsoever,
the purpose or intent of which shall be to enable any common carrier to exempt itself from any liability created by
this Act, shall to that extent be void . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S

The trial judge held the agreement did not bar Duncan's
suit, but submitted the issues of negligence to the jury
with instructions that if their verdict should be for him
the railroad would be entitled to a credit of $600 and interest. 9;he verdict was for Duncan and, after appropriate subtraction for the prior payment to him, judgment
for $5,000 was entered in his favor. The Springfield
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the invalidating
effect of § 5 does not extend to contracts made after an
employee is injured, 146 S. W. 2d 112, and the Missouri
Supreme Court declined to review its action.
In Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S.
603, 611, this Court referred to § 5 as follows:
"The evident purpose of Congress was to enlarge the
scope of the section and to make it more comprehensive
by a generic, rather than a specific, description. It thus
brings within its purview 'any contract, rule, regulation,
or device whatsoever, the purpose or intent of which shall
be to enable any common carrier to exempt itself from any
liability created by this Act.' It includes every variety
of agreement or arrangement of this nature . . ."
While this interpretation is broad enough to bring
within § 5 contracts made after as well as before the injury, the agreement at issue in the Schubert case was
made prior to the injury, and the actual decision therefore
does not control agreements which, like that now before
us, are made after the injury has occurred. Moreover,
several state courts have expressed the view that contracts
made after the injury has occurred are not invalidated
by § 5. See, e. g., Ballengerv. Southern Ry. Co., 106 S.C.
200, 203, A,0 S. E. 1019; Pattonv. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co., 59 Okla. 155, 156, 158 P. 576; Lindsay v. Acme Cement. Plaster Co., 220 Mich. 367, 377, 190 N. W. 275;
Carlson v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 82 Mont. 559, 568,
268 P. 549.

DUNCAN v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Because of this divergence of judicial opinion as to the
interpretation of § 5, and because the scope of § 5 is of
fundamental importance in the administration of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, we granted certiorari.
Section 3 of the first Federal Employers' Liability Act,'
passed by Congress in 1906, provided that "no contract
of employment, insurance, relief benefit, or indemnity
for injury or death entered into by or on behalf of any employee, nor the acceptance of any such insurance, relief
benefit, or indemnity by the person entitled thereto, shall
constitute any bar or defense to any action brought to
recover damages for personal injuries to or death of such
employee. .. ." The court below, taking the position
that the word "contract" as used in § 3 referred only to
contracts entered into before the injury occ urred, concluded that § 5 of the present act is no broader in this respect, but merely includes contracts, rules, regulations, or
devices in effect before the injury. In our opinion, the
difference in the language of the two sections and the legislative history of the, later one cannot be reconciled with
this conclusion.
It is clear from the Congressional committee hearings
and reports on the Federal Employers' Liability Act now
in force, not only that close study was made of the entire
1906 Act and in particular of § 3, but also that considerable attention was given to state employers' liability acts
and experience under them. Section 3 was incorporated
verbatim in one of the two bills introduced. in the Senate,
but it was the bill containing the broader language of the
present § 5 that survived consideration. See Rearings on
S. 3080,. February 20, 1908, p. 3, and compare .Senate
Report No. 460, 60th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4. Without
more, the change from "contract" to "any contract, rule,
134

Stat. 232.

This act was declared unconstitutional in the Em-

ployers'. Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

regulation, or device whatsoever" would seem to be an
enlargement ample to include agreements made after the
event of injury.
But there is more. Under the state acts there had been
widespread attempts by employers to contract themselves
out of the liabilities the acts were intended to impose.
State legislatures had responded to this practice by
adopting provisions which proscribed employer-employee
agreements intended to deprive employees of the statutory benefits. These provisions varied in scope and language. Some declared agreements attempting to exempt
employers from liability void only when they were part
of contracts of employment. One state, although not
limiting the statutory invalidation to contracts of employment, specifically restricted it to agreements "entered
into prior to the injury." Other states, presumably after
experience had shown that narrower limitations were inadequate to stamp out ingenious evasions of the statutory
responsibilities, adopted measures invalidating agreements of any type, regardless of when made, which attempted to exempt employers from liability. House
Report No. 1386, 60th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 30-75.
The report of the House Judiciary Committee on the
second Federal Employers' Liability Act set out all of the
state statutes then in effect. Because the various state
measures directed against contractual arrangements intended to exempt employers from liability were thus laid
before Congress, the rejection of the restrictive language
of § 3 of the old act indicates a deliberate abandonment
of the limitations of that section. And the adoption of
§ 5 of the present act, without adding any of the other
limitations which some of the state statutes had embodied,
argues per~uasively that Congress wanted § 5 to have the
full effect that its comprehensive phraseology implies.

DUNCAN v. THOMPSON.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

Concluding that the phrase "any contract, rule, regulation, or device whatsoever" as used in § 5 comprehends
the instrument signed by Duncan long after he had been
injured, we turn to the remaining question: whether "the
purpose or intent" of the instrument was to enable the
respondent "to exempt itself from any liability created
by [the] Act." The instrument prepared by the respondent for Duncan's signature purported to create a condition
precedent to his bringing suit, the refunding of $600. By
its terms, unless this condition were satisfied-and in
view of Duncan's straitened circumstances the probability
of satisfaction would seem negligible-,Duncan's only
means of enforcing such liabilities as should have bee.
assumed by the respondent would be taken from hint
Hence, the agreement, if valid, would effectively exempt
the respondent from liability under the act, no matter
what the merits of Duncan's claim.
The respondent contends, however, that § 5 does not invalidate compromises of disputed claims, and that the
agreement here is in the nature of a conditional compromise. We need not here determine what limitations, if
any, § 5 places upon the validity of agreements not to sue
ifmade in consideration of a bona fide compromise and
settlement of claims arising under the act, because the
very language of the agreement indicates it is not a compromise and settlement. While the agreement does contemplate the possibility of ftture settlement, it expressly
stated that the $600 was advanced "for living and other
expenses pending further developments as to the extent
and effect of ... . injuries and negotiations for settlement
of [the] claim." And the claim agent of the respondent
testified that the agreement was in a form regularly used
by the respondent when its employees "had a long disability period like he [Duncan] had had . . to tide

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
315 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

them over until they had their recovery before we negotiate final settlement." We are unpersuaded, therefore,
by any argument which depends upon treating the agreement signed by Duncan as a compromise.
The judgment of the Springfield Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

EX PARTE TEXXS

ET AL.

ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. -, Original.

Argued December 8, 9, 1941.-Decided January
12, 1942.

1. In Lone Star Gas Co. v. Texas, 304 U. S. 224, this Court decided
that the company, in support of its claim that gas rates fixed by
the Texas Railroad Commission were confiscatory, was entitled to
make proof of confiscation on the basis of services rendered by an
integrated system-the basis on which the Commission fixed the
rates in question; but did not decide that the rates were confiscatory or in anywise foreclose a trial of that issue in the state courts.
Pp. 12-13.
2. Leave to file a petition for a mandamus directed to the Justices
of the Supreme Court of a State, requiring them to conform their
judgment to a decision of this Court determining federal questions
earlier in the case, will not be granted where, by their return to
the order to show cause, they show that the judgment of the state
court was based not upon a misconception of this Court's decision,
as alleged and relied -upon in the petition for mandamus, but upon
a construction and application of state law. P. 14.
Motion denied.
MOTION for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus against the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court of Texas, to bring a judgment of

