MUNCIE GEAR CO. v. OUTBOARD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MUNCIE GEAR WORKS, INC. ET AL. v. OUTBOARD,
MARINE & MANUFACTURING CO. ET AL
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 323.

Argued February 12, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. The Court considered as a reason for the granting of certiorari
to review a decision of a Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining
claims of a patent as to which there was no conflict of decision,'
the fact that the patent dominated a substantial portion of an industry so concentrated in one circuit that a conflict of decision
was unlikely. P. 765.
2. Claims 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Johnson patent No. 1,716,962, for
an alleged invention to overcome cavitation in the operation of
relatively large :and fast outboard motors, held invalid under
R. S. § 4866, because of public use, or sale, of devices embodying
the alleged invention, more than two years before the first disclosure thereof to the Patent Office. P. 768.
3. Upon the record in this case, held that a decision by this Court
of the question under R. S. § 4866 was not foreclosed by the
obscurity of its presentation in the courts below. , P. 768.
119 F. 2d 404, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 594, to review a judgment which

reversed a judgment of the District Court, and held the
claims of a patent valid and infringed.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Messrs. Charles
W. Rummler and Floyd H. Crews were on the brief, for

petitioners.
Mr. Henry M. Huxley, with whom Messrs. George L.
Wilkinson, S. L. Wheeler, and Isadore Levin were on the

brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

We are required in this case to determine the validity of

claims numbered 11, 12, 13 and 14 of letters patent No.

760

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

1,716,962, granted on June 11, 1929, to Harry L. Johnson
for invention in a "water propulsion device." Respondent Johnson Brothers Engineering Corporation is the
owner of the patent, and respondent Outboard, Marine &
Manufacturing Company, is the exclusive licensee thereunder. Petitioner Muncie Gear Works, Inc., manufactured outboard motors which are claimed to infringe, and
petitioner Bruns & Collins, Inc., sold them.
Respondents contend that this is a validly issued patent
covering an invention which solved the problems of "cavitation" by relatively large and fast outboard motors.
"Cavitation" is the drawing of air by the propeller- from
above the surface of the water to the propeller itself. Air
so drawn reduces the propulsive effect of the propeller and
causes "racing" of the motor with consequent risk of its
disintegration and danger to the user. Increased speed
or power entails a greater tendency to cavitate. Cavitation may be diminished by setting the propeller deeper in
the water, but this increased projection increases resistance and retards speed.
Long before the patent in question, it was known that
cavitation could be controlled, and in practice it was controlled, in at least all but relatively large and fast outboard
motors, by setting a flat plate horizontally above the propeller and beneath the surlace of the water, to act as a
baffle and prevent the propeller from drawing air.1 Respondents presented expert testimony to the effect that
relatively large and fast water-cooled outboard motors
cannot be successful unless they embody the asserted invention which respondents say is the subject matter of
the claims in question. In general, this may be said to
consist in the use of an anti-cavitation plate on a housing
for the engine and propeller shafts enclosing the water
passages for the cooling system, shaped both above and
'Smith, No. 1,226,400 (1917); Johnson, No. 1,467,641 (1923).

MUNCIE GEAR CO. v. OUTBOARD CO.
759

Opinion of the Court.

below the plate so as to reduce water displacement and
resistance, and thus to reduce or eliminate eddy currents
forming vortexes through which air can be sucked into the
propeller. This permits adequate control of cavitation
by means of a not unduly large anti-cavitation plate.
Harry L. Johnson, an experienced engineer and manufacturer of outboard motors, filed his application for the
patent on August 25, 1926, but in no way suggested the
combination now asserted as his invention. The single
sheet of drawing accompanying the application was not
changed during the prosecution of the application, and is
the same as the drawing of the issued patent. This drawing showed an outboard motor assembly comprising,
among other things, an engine at the top connected with a
propeller at the bottom, with an anti-cavitation plate located horizontally above the propeller, approximately
midway between top and bottom of the housing for the
engine and propeller shafts. All water passages for the
cooling system beneath the normal water level were
shown to be enclosed in the housing. No cross section of
this housing was drawn or indicated, and for all that appears from the drawing it might have been circular, triangular or rectangular. The drawing showed an arched
member extending from the housing and anti-cavitation
plate over the top and to the rear of the propeller, containing openings and passages for the intake and discharge of
water, and ending in a curved "deflection plate" extending
rearwardly like a fixed rudder. From the specifications
and claims, it appeared that the purpose of the deflection
plate was to compensate for the side and pivotal force of
the moving propeller, which tended to draw the boat off
'its course unless the operator made constant adjustment
to offset the "side throw." The specifications and drawings both indicated an anti-cavitation plate which the
specifications said "prevents cavitation," but it was in no
way asserted that the cavitation plate was new, or that it

762

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

was being employed in any novel coSperative relation to
the other elements.
All of the claims of the application as originally made
were rejected on December 15, 1926. On December 13,
1927, Johnson offered amendments which retained and
amended the prior claims and added others directed to the
feature of the deflection plate. In urging allowance, he
said, among other things, "It is conceded that cavitation
plates are old in the art as shown in the patent to Johnson
cited," and he proceeded to urge as an invention the combination of the cavitation plate and the arching member
or deflection plate. A similar supplemental amendment
was filed on January 19, 1928. Several of the original
claims as amended were allowed, and the rest of the claims
rejected, on June 7, 1928.,
On December 8, 1928, Johnson came forward with new
claims. Claims 20 to 25 offered by this amendment made
no mention of the deflection plate or of the arching members, but did not even suggest the presently asserted invention. On March 30, 1929, Johnson cancelled these
claims and offered further amendments to his original application, together with a supplemental oath that he had
invented the subject matter of the application as so
amended, prior to the filing of the original amendment.
The effect of those changes was aptly described by the patent examiner: "The amendments have been such that the
claims now emphasize the anti-cavitation plate rather
than the anti-torque plate." With changes which are
immaterial here, the new claims so offered .became the
claims in issue. In them, Johnson, for the first time, made
claims relating to the exterior surface of the housing.
Claim 12 described the housing as having "unbroken outer
wall surfaces at each side," and claim 14, as having
'No question has ever been raised in this case respecting the veracity
of this oath.. Cf. Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 130.

MUNCIE GEAR CO. v. OUTBOARD CO.
759

763

Opinion of the Court.

"smooth and unbroken walls." Claims 11 and 13 were
silent on the subject. The amendment also set forth an
addition to the description which was incorporated in the
description of the patent as issued. Here we find the expression "relatively smooth and substantially stream-line
surfaces." Other than these, no indication of the nature
of the surface or cross section of the housing was given at
any time during the prosecution of the application.
The petitionets interposed defenses to all of the eight
patents upon which respondents sued them in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern
Division,8 which we take to have put in issue the question whether the claims were void because made more
than two years after the first public use of the device
'The patent here involved and two others were litigated in one suit,
with which was consolidated another suit involving five other patents.
One of the patents was withdrawn prior to trial, and the courts below
disposed of six of the seven remaining patents adversely to the
respondents.
"These read as follows:
"The defendants are informed and believe and. therefore aver that
each of the Letters Patent in suit was and is void and of no effect in law
in that the alleged inventions or improvements described therein were
invented by, or known to, or used by others in the United States, before the alleged inventions of the said patentees of the patents in suit,
and for more than two years prior to the respective applications for
said patents; among which prior inventors and users and those having
prior knowledge are the patentees and their assigns of the several Letters Patents named in the annexed schedule 'A', at the places and addresses named in said Letters Patent, and other prior inventors, users
and those having prior knowledge the names of whom, and the times
and places of such other public uses, being at the present time unknown to defendants, but which, when fully ascertained, defendants
pray leave to insert in this Answer by amendments thereto. [No such
amendment was ever made or attempted.]
"Defendants are informed and believe and therefore aver that each
of the Letters Patent in suit is invalid and void for the reason that the
alleged invention thereof purported to be patented thereby are not

764

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

At the trial, two of the officers of respondent Outboard,
Marine & Manufacturing Company testified on direct

examination as respondents' witnesses to the effect that
in January or February of 1926 one of this respondent's

predecessors put on the market licensed outboard motors
equipped with smooth-walled housings, anti-cavitation
plates, and internal water passages as described in the
claims in suit; and that at least one competitor (which

was also a predecessor) had brought out a substantially
similar, but unlicensed, motor about a year later.'
the same as were disclosed in the application therefor as originally
filed, but are substantially different from any invention indicated,
described, or suggested in the original applications therefor; that the
applications therefor were amended in the specification and claims during the prosecution thereof and the alleged patented subject matter is
not supported by oath as required by law; that the said applications
were unlawfully enlarged during the prosecution thereof; and that
the claims of said Letters Patent are invalid and void for the reason
that they include matter not shown or adequately described in the
said patents."
'Tanner, Vice President in charge of the sales of the Johnson Motors
Division, testified as follows:
"Q. Are you familiar with the type of lower unit construction which
is shown on this chart reproduced from the drawings of the Johnson
patent No. 1,716,962? A. I am.
"Q. Do you recall when such a construction was introduced to the
market, and by whom? A. To the best of my recollection it was for
the model year of 1926, which would mean it was probably introduced
about January or February of 1926.
IQ. By whom? A. By Johnson Motor Company.
"Q. At that time was Eviniude Motor Company a competitor of
Johnson Motor Company? A. Yes, they were.
"Q. At that time was Elto Motor Company a competitor of Johnson
Motor Company? A. Yes.
"Q. At that time was Lockwood-Ash Motor Company a competitor
of Johnson Motor Company? A. Yes.
"Q. What was the result of the introduction of this model by Johnson Motor Company in 1926? A. As far as I was concerned, I was connected with the Lockwood-Ash Motor Company that was making a

MUNCIE GEAR CO. v. OUTBOARD CO.
759

765

Opinion of the Court.

In an unreported decision the District Court did not
touch on this question, but found as a matter of fact and
of law that the claims in question were invalid because
merely aggregational. On appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals the issue of sale or public use was not clearly
presented,' if indeed it was presented at all; and the opinion rendered by that court did not advert to it, although
it held that the claims here involved were valid and
infringed. 119 F. 2d 404. While there was no conflict
motor in 1926 and not having that combination; and, not having it,
we did not have the satisfactory performance that the Johnson combination had.
"Q. In what respect did your motor not have as satisfactory a performance? A. It had cavitation.
"Q. What did your motor lack particularly of the structure shown in
this Johnson patent? A. We did not have an anti-cavitation plate.
"Q. What did you do to remedy this difficulty? A. In the fall of
1926, for the 1927 model year, we put on an anti-cavitation plate.
"Q. Did that remedy your difficulty, so far as cavitation was concerned? A. Yes.
"Q. Do you know what was done by Evinrude and Elto? A. My
recollection is that possibly, not at the same moment, I doubt Evinrude
did the same year, put on an anti-cavitation plate on the stream line
housing. I don't remember clearly whether Elto did it that year or the
next, but they subsequently did put on the same combination."
Irgens, Chief Engineer and Production Manager of the Evinrude
Division, testified as follows:
"Q.How long has it been true that all of the larger sizes of outboard
motors have -been equipped with smooth walled lower unit housings,
anti-cavitation plates intermediate the top and bottom thereof, and
internal water passages? A. They became popular about 1926, and
from then on practically all of them have been made that way."
"The brief of petitioners in the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
has been certified to this Court by the Clerk of that court, contained
the following statement under the heading of anticipation: "In considering these claims it is appropriate to first have in mind their
historical background, in view of the importance that Plaintiffs place
upon them as being for subject matter that 'solved a problem' pre-

766

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

of decision with respect to these claims,' we granted
certiorari in view of the questions presented and because
the patent dominates a substantial portion of an industry
so concentrated in the Seventh Circuit that litigation in
other circuits, resulting in a conflict of decisions, is unlikely. 314 U. S.594. Schriber-SchrothCo. v. Cleveland
Trust Co., 305 U. S. 47.
Section 4886 of the Revised Statutes, as amended and
applicable to the present case, provided for the issuance
of a patent to an inventor upon certain conditions, one
of which was that his invention was "not in public use
or on sale in this country for more than two years prior to
his application."'
In an effort to avoid the effect of this provision, respondents contend that the question of its applicability
was not raised either in the District Court or in the Circuit Court of Appeals; that there was no opportunity to
meet the issue; and that the invention as finally claimed
was disclosed by the application as originally made or in
any event as amended on December 8, 1928.
However, the evidence of public use and sale, given,
as we have pointed out, by respondents' own officers and
witnesses,' has not been questioned or contradicted, and
viously 'stalling' a great industry. In the first place the subject matter
of these claims was in no way considered in or made a part of the
original application .. . It was not until more than two years later
that the patentee on December 6, 1928, by his amendment 'C', added
claims to his application covering any of the matter that is now
deemed tor
be of such great importance. Then, for the first time the
patentee claimed, in claims originally numbered 17 to 25, inclusive,
the anticavitation plate apart from the limitations which characterized
his originally filed disclosures and originally filed claims."
'They had previously been sustained by a District Court in the Sixth
Circuit. Johnson BrothersEngineering Corp. v. Caille Bros. Co., 8 F.
Supp. 198. Caie is no longer in the business.
'The period is now one year. Act of August 5, 1939, 53 Stat. 1212,
35 U. S. C. § 31.
'See footnote 5, supra.

MUNCIE GEAR CO. v. OUTBOARD CO.
759

Opinion of the Court.

is interpreted by respondents' counsel in accordance with
our view of it. In their brief they say "It is true that
after Johnson Motor Company, licensee under the patent
in suit, had popularized devices embodying the subject
matter of the claims in suit, at least one competitor
copied the combinations of the claims in suit from the
Johnson motor before claims closely resembling those in
suit were presented to the Patent Office in December
1928. This was done by Lockwood Ash Motor Company, then a competitor, but subsequently merged to
constitute a predecessor of Respondent, Outboard,
Marine & Manufacturing Company ....
Lockwood
Ash first adopted this combination for the 1927 season.
The model year commenced in January or February.
. . . Concededly, the original claims were limited additionally either to the deflection plate or to the arched
support. But claims without these limitations had, contrary to Petitioners' assertions, been filed December 8,
1928. The difference in date is critical because the record
shows that the only manufacture of devices embodying
the invention which had occurred more than two years
prior to December 8, 1928, was licensed manufacture by
Johnson Motor Company, predecessor of Respondent
Outboard, Marine & Manufacturing Company, and in
1926, exclusive licensee of Respondent Johnson Brothers
Engineering Corporation, owner of the application for
the patent in suit. . . . The only concern which produced outboard motors in accordance with the invention
of the patent in 1926 was the exclusive licensee under
the application for the patent in suit. . . . March,
1929, would be more than two years after the opening
of the 1927 model year; but the actual date in December,
1928, when the-patentee claimed the specific invention in
controversy, without regard to deflection plate or arched
support, was well within two years of the first competitive use of the invention, even assuming that the

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

two year period is of any significance in the present
case ....

It is clear to us, however, that the amendments of
December 8, 1928, like the original application, wholly
failed to disclose the invention now asserted.
The claims in question are invalid if there was public
use, or sale, of the device which they are claimed to
cover, more. than two years before the first disclosure
thereof to the Patent Offiqe. Cf. Railway Co. v. ,Sayles,
97 U. S. 554, 557, 559, 563-64; Schriber-Schroth Co. v.
Cleveland Trust Co., supra, at 57. Section 4886 of the
Revised Statutes would in terms provide for their invalidity had they been offered by application rather than
by amendment; and whatever may be the efficacy of an
amendment as a substitute for an application, it surely
can effect no more than the application itself.
We think the conclusion is inescapable that there was
public use, or sale, of devices embodying the asserted invention, more than two years before it was first presented
to the Patent Office. We are not foreclosed from a decision under § 4886 on the point by the obscurity of its'presentation in the courts below. This issue has been fully
presented to this Court by the petition for a writ of certiorari, and in subsequent briefs and argument; and there
is not the slightest indication that respondents have been
prejudiced by such obscurity. To sustain the claims in
question upon the. established and admitted facts would
require a plain disregard of the public interest sought to be
safeguarded by the patent statutes, and so frequently
present but so seldom adequately represented in patent
litigation.
We therefore hold that the claims in question are invalid under §4886 of the Revised Statutes, and accordingly
have no occasion to decide any other question in the case.
Reversed.

