I. C. C. v. RAILWAY LABOR ASSN.
Counsel for Parties.

357

the law may well retard the social and economic program which the Act inaugurated. We should be alert
to prevent sheer technicalities from interposing delay in
a law enforcement program. If the subpoena power is
abused, Congress and the courts are open to remedy it.
Meanwhile, the subpoena power should be treated sympathetically and regarded as a necessary legal sanction
to obtain compliance with the law by those who, having
lost the battle in the legislature, seek a delaying action
in the courts.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR.,
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in this
dissent.
JUSTICE BYRNES,

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION
RAILWAY LABOR EXECUTIVES ASSN.

ET AL. V.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 223. Argued February 3, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.
Under § 1 (18)-(20) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate

Commerce Commission, in authorizing the abandonment of a railway line, has authority to attach terms and conditions for the benefit
of employees who will be displaced by the abandonment. P. 376.
38 F. Supp. 818, 824, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges setting aside in part a report and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 242 I. C. C. 9.

Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton

was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. Frank Karr, with whom Messrs. J. R. Bell

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

and C. W. Cornell were on the brief, for the Pacific Electric
Railway Co., appellants.
Mr. Willard H. McEwen, with whom Messrs. Frank L.
Mulholland and Clarence M. Mulholland were on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellant, Pacific Electric Railway Company, owns
and operates electric railroads and motor bus and truck
lines in California. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, with whose lines
it makes connections at numerous points. It applied to,
the Interstate Commerce Commission for permission to
carry out "a general program of rearrangement of . . .
passenger service, involving abandonment of certain rail
lines and substitution of motor coach transportation as
a means of increasing operating revenues, reducing expenses, and rendering a more adequate service to the
public." The Railway Labor Executives' Association and
The Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen appeared before
the Commission as representatives of Pacific's employees.
They contended that if the Commission were to grant
Pacific's application, it should do so only upon conditions
designed to protect employees, and proposed that Pacific
be required to provide certain specified benefits for employees who would be displaced or otherwise prejudiced
by the abandonment. In support of this contention, they
argued that many of Pacific's employees had devoted a
large part of their lives to the service of the railroad and
had acquired valuable rights of seniority in connection
with their employment; that the proposed change would
cause many of them to lose their jobs, as a result of which
they would suffer great hardships and some would become
public charges; and that, although the abandonment and
rearrangement would give Pacific a net annual savings

I. C. C. v. RAILWAY LABOR ASSN.
373

Opinion of the Court.

of approximately $378,000, about $302,000 of the saving
would be due to a net wage loss suffered by employees.
After a hearing, Division 4 of the Commission issued an
brder permitting abandonment upon the ground that continued operation of the line by Pacific "would impose an
undue burden upon the applicant and upon interstate
commerce," but held that the Commission was without
statutory authority to impose any conditions whatever
for the protection of employees in these proceedings. 242
I. C. C. 9. The full Commission denied the brotherhood's
request for rehearing. Upon application of the brotherhoods, the Federal District Court of the District of Columbia, composed of three judges, in accordance with 28
U. S. C. § 47, held that the Commission did have authority
to impose conditions for the protection of displaced employees. Accordingly, it set aside "That part of the Commission's report which denies consideration of the employees' petition for lack of power . . . with directions to
the Commission to consider the petition and take such
action thereon as in the discretion of the Commission is
proper." 38 F. Supp. 818, 824. Whether it is within
the Commission's power in abandonment proceedings to
impose conditions for the protection of employees is the
single question presented by this appeal.
Section 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides
that "no carrier by railroad subject to this part shall abandon all or any portion of a line of railroad, or the operation thereof, unless and until there shall first have been
obtained from the Commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience and necessity permit of
such abandonment." And § 1 (20) empowers the Commission to "attach to the issuance of the certificate such
terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and necessity may require." 49 U. S. C. § 1
(18)-(20).

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

With respect to consolidations, another section of the
Act, 5 (4), is controlling. In United States v. Lowden,
308 U. S. 225, this Court held that the Commission has
authority under § 5 (4) to impose conditions similar to
thoce sought here in order to protect employees adversely
affected by a consolidation. At the time of the Lowden
case, § 5 (4) provided: "If the Commission finds that,
subject to such teims and conditions and such modifications as it shall find to be just and reasonable, the proposed
consolidation . . . will promote the public interest, it
may enter an order approving and authorizing such consolidation . . ' upon the terms and conditions and with
the modifications so found to be just and reasonable." 49
U. S. C. § 5 (4).
The Commission argues that the conditions it is authorized to impose under the consolidation section--"just
and reasonable" conditions, which "will promote the public interest"-ai-e of much broader scope than the conditions it is authorized to impose under the abandonment
section-conditions which "the public convenience and
necessity may require." Although admitting that provisions for the protection of displaced employees may be
a condition that "will promote the public interest," the
Commission concludes that such provisions cannot be required by "the public convenience and necessity." We
need not decide in what respects, if any, the authorization
to impose conditions in consolidations is broader than the
authorization to impose conditions in abandonments.
For even assuming that the language of the abandonment
section is narrower, we cannot agree that it excludes all
power to impose conditions of the kind sought here.
The phrase "public convenience and necessity" no less
than the phrase "public interest" must be given a scope
consistent with the broad purpose of the Transportation
Act of 1920: to provide the public with an-efficient and
nationally integrated railroad system. New England

I. C. C. v. RAILWAY LABOR ASSN.
373

Opinion of the Court.

Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 189-191. Clear recognition
that "public convenience and necessity" includes the consideration of effects on the national transportation system of a proposed abandonment appears in the decision
of this Court in Coloradov. United States, 271 U. S. 153.
There, Mr. Justice Brandeis, although stating that "public
convenience and necessity" was the sole criterion for determining whether or not an abandonment should be allowed, nevertheless considered the effect of the proposed
abandonment in a much broader sphere than the immediate locality and population served by the trackage
to be abandoned. See also Transit Commission v. United
States, 284 U. S. 360. And if national interests are to be
considered in connection with an abandonment, there is
nothing in the Act to indicate that the national interest
in purely financial stability is to be determinative while
the national interest in the stability of the labor supply
available to the railroads is to be disregarded. On the
contrary, the Lowden case recognizes that the unstabilizing effects of displacing labor without protection might
be prejudicial to the orderly and efficient operation of the
national railroad system. Such possible unstabilizing
effects on the national railroad system are no smaller in
the case of an abandonment like the one before us than
in a consolidation like that involved in the Lowden case.
Hence, it is only by excluding considerations of national
policy with respect to the transportation system from the
scope of "public convenience and necessity," an exclusion
inconsistent with the Act as this Court has interpreted it,
that the distinction made by the Commission can be
maintained.
It was not until 1935, fifteen years after the passage of
§ 1 (20), that the Commission first decided that it was
without power to impose conditions for the protection of
workers in an abandonment. Chicago G. W. R. Co.
Trackage, 207 I. C. C. 315, 322. At that time, the Corn-

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

mission took the position that requiring displacement
allowances as a condition would be the equivalent of
granting a private benefit to a particular group of workers, and therefore beyond the scope of authority granted
by Congress. The Commission has taken the same position here. It must not be forgotten, however, that the
immediate result of permitting the abandonment itself is
a private benefit for the railroad in the form of savings
realized by discontinuing uneconomic services. The justificalion lies in the benefit to the transportation system
which the Commission concluded the abandonment would
produce. There is nothing in the Act to prevent the Commission from takingaction in furtherance of the "public
convenience and necessity" merely because-the total impact of that action will include benefits to private persons,
either carriers or employees. The Lowden case specifically
recognized that the imposition of conditions similar to
those sought here might strengthen the national system
through their effect on the morale and stability of railway
workers generally. Exactly the same considerations of
national importance are applicable and operative here.
We must also reject the further argument that Congress
has ratified the Commission's construction of § 1 (18)(20). It is true that Congress made no changes in § 1
(18)-(20) of the Interstate Commerce Act in passing the
Transportation Act of 1940, and that the annual reports
of the Commission to Congress in 1935 and 1936 had
specifically asked "for further statutory provisions to protect employees from undue financial loss as a consequence
of authorized railway abandonments or unifications."
But the Lowden case, clearly establishing that the Commission's 1935 and 1936 doubts about its powers with respect to unifications were erroneous, was decided on
December 4, 1939. Congress could with good reason
have concluded that the principle of the Lowden case was

I. C. C. v. RAILWAY LABOR ASSN.
373

Opinion of the Court.

equally applicable to abandonments. In any event, the
contrary conclusion-that abandonments were now to be
distinguished, although the Commission had made no such
distinction in presenting the problem to Congress, and
that Congress approved such a distinction-is at best the
product of a set of inferences none of which is free from
doubt. We therefore cannot impute to Congress's failure
to amend § 1 (18)-(20) the significalfce which the petitioners contend it should have.
Nor is the petitioners' contention strengthened because
Congress did modify § 5 (4) in the Transportation Act of
1940. The modifications, so far as relevant here, merely
made mandatory with respect to unifications the protections for workers that had previously been discretionary.'
See United States v. Lowden, supra, 239. To regard them
as a restriction on the discretionary power of the Commission with respect to abandonments is not merely
illogical. It requires us to impute to Congress a policy of
mandatory protection for labor in unifications and no
1

"As a condition of its approval, under this paragraph (2), of any

transaction involving a carrier or carriers by railroad subject to the
provisions of this part, the Commission shall require a fair and equitable arrangement to protect the interests of the railroad employees
affected. In its order of approval the Commission shall include terms
and conditions providing that during the period of four years from
the effective date of such order such transaction will not result in
employees of the carrier or carriers by railroad affected by such order
being in a worse position with respect to their employment, except
that the protection afforded to any employee pursuant to this sentence
shall not be required to continue for a longer period, following the
effective date of such order, than the period during which such employee was in the employ of such carrier or carriers prior to the effective date of such order. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Act, an agreement pertaining to the protection of the interests of
said employees may hereafter be entered into by any carrier or carriers
by railroad and the duly authorized representative or representatives
of its or their employees." 54 Stat. 906-907.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Coux .

315 U.S.

protection at all in abandonments. It is reasonable to
suppose that if Congress had intended to make such a
distinction, it would have said so more explicitly.
The petitioners have made further arguments based on
the statutory history of the Transportation Act of 1940,
relying upon incidental and sporadic references in committee hearings and reports to the protection of labor in
connection with abandonments. We have reviewed those
references, and have found that they raise inferences too
ambiguous to support the conclusion that Congress has
ratified the Commission's construction of § 1 (18)-(20).
It is also urged that we should not disturb the Commission's construction of the abandonment provisions for
the reason that administrative interpretations by the
agency charged with the enforcement of a statute are entitled to great weight. But as we have pointed out, the
construction placed upon § 1 (18)-(20) by the Commission is not only hostile to the major objective of the Act
and inconsistent with decisions of this Court, but irreconcilable with its own interpretations of § 5 (4). Under
such circumstances, we believe the court below was amply
justified in refusing to accept the Commission's construction. Cf. Mitchell v. United States, 313 U. S. 80; City
Bank Co. v. Helvering, 313 U. S. 121.
We therefore conclude that the Commission has authority to attach terms and conditions for the benefit of
employees displaced by railroad abandonments. Whether
such terms and conditions should be attached in this case,
and, if so, their nature and extent, are questions for the
Commission to decide in the light of the evidence. The
judgment of the court below should accordingly be
Affirmed.

