OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

U. S. INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INC. v. CARBIDE
& CARBON CHEMICALS CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 680. Argued March 13, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.
1. A reissue patent must be for the same invention as the original
patent. R. S. ยง 4916. P. 675.
2. Original Patent No. 1,998,878, to Lefort, for a process for the production of ethylene oxide, called for the introduction into a heated
reaction chamber of ethylene and oxygen, in the presence of a
catalyzer, and also, as an essential, the voluntary introduction of,
water. Reissue Patent No. 20,370, in describing the process, treats
the voluntary introduction of water as permissive but not mandatory. Held, that the reissue is void. P. 677.
3. Although it is the duty of a court to determine for itself, by examination of the original and the reissue, whether they are for the
same invention, it is permissible, and often necessary, to receive expert
evidence to ascertain the meaning of a technical or scientific term
or term of art, so that the court may be aided in understanding not
what the instruments mean but what they actually say. P. 678.
4. It is inadmissible to enlarge the scope of the original patent by
recourse to expert testimony to the effect that a process-described
and claimed in the reissue, different from that described and claimed
in the original patent, is, because eqpally efficacious, in substance
that claimed originally. P. 678.
5. The omission from a reissue patent of one of the steps or elements
prescribed in the original, thus broadening the claims to cover a
new and different combination, renders the reissue void, even though
- the result attained is the same as that brought about by following
the process claimed in the original patent. P. 678.
121 F. 2d 665, reversed.

314 U. S. 603, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court upholding a reissue patent
in a suit for infringement.
CERTIORARI,

U. S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 669
668

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William H. Davis, with whom Messrs. Thomas D.
Thacher and Dean S. Edmonds were on thd brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Messrs. Leonard
A. Watson, Clair V. Johnson, and Clair W. Fairbankwere
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
'Court.
This is a suit by the respondent to restrain the petitioner from infringing claims 8 and 9 of reissue patat
No. 20,370. The application for reissue was filed September 25, 1936, and granted May i8,1937. The original
patent was No. 1,998,878, applied for March 22, 1932,
and granted April 23, 1935, to Theodore Emile Lefort, of
Paris, France, for a "Process for the Production of Ethylene Oxide." The application was based on earlier
French patents. The respondent purchased the United
States patent in April 1936 and, as a result of its study
thereof, the patentee was persuaded to apply for the
reissue.
If the reissue patent is valid, no question is now raised
as to petitioner's infringement of the claims in suit. The
District Court held the patent valid and infringed.1 The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.2 We took the case
because of an apparent conflict with decisions of this
court and several Circuit Courts of Appeals, to the effect
that a reissue patent must, under the statute, be for the
134 F. Supp. 813.
'121 F. 2d 665.

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

same invention as the original patent." The petitioner
also raised a question as to intervening rights which, in
the view we take, need not be considered or decided.
Ethylene is a hydrocarbon gas, C2H,. For a long time
it was thought impossible directly to oxygenize it to form
C2H,O by bringing oxygen and ethylene into contact,
though the formation of ethylene oxide by direct oxidation was commercially desirable. Efforts at direct oxidation, instead of producing the oxide, resulted in less desirable oxygenated compounds such as aldehydes. Lefort
conceived the idea of effecting the oxidation by catalytic
reaction, that is, the use of a substance, which, in some
unexplained way, causes a chemical union or reaction
when the two substances to be affected are brought into
contact in its presence under given conditions. He recognized one incident of the direct oxidation process as
applied to ethylene tending to decrease its efficiency,
namely, that, in addition to the principal reaction producing C2HO, there occurs a side reaction by which a
portion of the ethylene is converted into carbon dioxide
and water, and, to that extent, the ethylene is wasted.
He found that, by certain control of the process, this side
reaction could be so restricted as not to decrease the
production of ethylene oxide below a profitable level.
According to both the original patent and the reissue,
ethylene and oxygen are to be introduced into a heated
reaction chamber in the presence of a catalyzer. The
petitioner insists that the original patent also treats as
-R. S. 4916, 35 U. S. C. ยง 64: "Whenever any patent is wholly or
partially inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient
specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming as his own invention
or discovery more than he had a right to claim as new, if the error
has arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any
fraudulent or deceptive intention, the Commissioner shall . . . cause
a patent for the same invention, and in accordance with the corrected
specification, to be reissued ... " [Italics supplied.]

U. S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 671
668

Opinion of the Court.

a mandatory or necessary step the voluntary introduction
of water, whereas the reissue in specification and claims
8 and 9 omits this requirement, and therefore describes
a different process. The respondent, on the other hand,
asserts that as both patents describe the oxygen of air
as that. which may be used, and as atmospheric air contains moisture, the first, specifying water, and the reissue
specifying air, both contemplate the introduction of
water in some form and therefore are for the same
process.' This dispute must be resolved by a comparison
of the disclosures of the two instruments. If that comparison leads to the conclusion that the reissue is not for
the same invention as the original, the reissue is void as
not within the terms of the statute.
We shall postpone discussion of the tests of identity or
difference of invention, and the-use of expert testimony,
to a statement of the criteria of judgment furnished by the
language of the specifications and claims of the two documents.
The opening paragraph of the original patent is:
"This invention hi for object a process for the production of ethylene oxide which mainly consists in subjecting
ethylene to the simultaneous action of the oxygen of air
and of water, in presence of a catalyzer and, if need be, of
hydrogen."
After referring to the use of hydrogen as optional, the
specification deals with the character and composition of
metals to be used as catalyzers. It then speaks of the elements to be used to obtain the desired reaction thus:
'No question of unreasonable delay is presentrL Compare Mahn
v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 363; Ives v. Sargent, 119 U. S. 652, 661;
Topliff v. Topliff, 145 U. S. 156, 169. Nor have we occasion to decide
what may be the scope of permissible court review of the commissioner's determination that the error of the patentee arose "by
inadvertence, accident or mistake, without fraudulent or deceptive
intention,"

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

"The ethylene can be obtained from any source of supply: ...
"Water can be admitted in the reaction vessel, either in
the liquid state, or as steam.
"The oxygen can be the oxygen of the air, this latter gas
being introduced in the reaction."
Immediately following, it is said:
"The efficiency of the reaction is increased by diminishing the C02 which is formed, by introduction, in this reaction, of a suitable quantity of water. A suitable volume of CO2 can also be previously introduced in the reacting gases."
The CO2 which it is desired to diminish is that which is
formed by the undesirable side reaction above mentioned.
This reaction is again mentioned, and the introduction of
water again specified thus:
"Moreover, the applicant has found that the reaction
giving C02 is, contrarily to previous belief, a reaction of
oxidation independent from that giving ethylene oxide
and from that giving aldehydes. From experiments effected by the applicant, it results that, if water is introduced in suitable quantity, the reaction is not only facilitated, as above stated, but, in addition, the reaction giving
C0 2, probably by direct oxidation of ethylene according
to the equation:
C2H, + 302 = 2H 20 + 2C02
is checked, owing, as is probable, to the partial pressure of
water.",
It is further said that the experiments indicate that
the side reaction producing C02 and water may be completely checked and the efficiency of the reaction producing ethylene oxide increased if C0 2 is previously intrnduced in addition to the water and the reacting gases.
Three modi operandi are next indicated as examples.
In the first, compressed ethylene and compressed air are
led, with or without hydrogen, into a heated tube contain-

U. S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 673
668

Opinion of the Court.

ing the catalyzer, the tube being connected with a circulating pump to supply water under pressure. In the second,
the catalyzer is introduced and the tube heated and then
"a mixture of ethylene, air, water vapour and hydrogen"
is sent through the tube. In the third, the catalyzer is
introduced into a high-pressure tube filled with water.
Pure ethylene is added "in order that it can dissolve in the
water." The tube is heated and "air and hydrogen are
slowly introduced."
The specification concludes:
"The experiments . . . have shown that, in presence
of the catalyzers indicated, water, in the form of steam or
not, considerably promotes the reation ensuring the production of ethylene oxide."
All of the seven claims include oxygen and water or
steam. Claim 1 is typical. It runs:
"A process for the production of ethylene oxide, consisting in subjecting ethylene to the simultaneous action
of oxygen and water, in presence of a catalyst [describing
the catalyst] at a temperature between 150 and 4000 C."
In some of the claims the word "steam" is substituted for
"water"; in two, "hydrogen" is added.
Various options or alternatives are mentioned in the
specifications, but nowhere in them, or in the claims, is
the introduction of water treated as optional or permissive. The District Court made no finding directed to this
fact, but the court below definitely holds, and we agree,
that, in -the process defined in the original patent, the voluntary introduction of water into the reaction chamber is
mandatory.
Experiments conducted by the respondent just before
it acquired the patent demonstrated that ethylene oxide
could be produced by passing ethylene and air over a catalyst at the temperature described in the patent withdut
the voluntary introduction of water. Its patent attorney
was asked to study the patent and he concluded that Le-

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

fort should have obtained far broader claims. He prepared two oaths for execution by Lefort to support the
application for reissue.
In the first, it was averred that the specification and
claims failed to emphasize the fact that the reaction takes
place "whether or not water is present"; and that the attorney in drawing the application had not been adequately
instructed that the "fullest benefit and application" of
the invention was the production of the oxide in the presence of the catalyst "with or without the inclusion of
water in the reaction.'
. After rejection, the second affidavit was filed.
This
stated that a certain amount of water was necessarily present in the reaction chamber due to the side reaction which
gives CO2 and water, and that the introduction of additional water and carbon dioxide was merely permissive in
order to augment the quantities already formed by that
reaction.
Thereupon reissue was granted with a rewritten specification, the seven original claims and two new ones, 8 and
9, which are those in suit.
The substituted specification opens thus:
"This invention provides a specific and novel process for
making ethylene oxide. It essentially consists in causing
ethylene to combine directly with molecular oxygen at
temperatures of about 150' to about 4000 C. in the presence of a surface catalyst which favors the oxidation of
ethylene to ethylene oxide under these conditions."
The statement is made that ethylene from any source
can be used, and that the oxygen can be that of the air.
The only reference to the introduction of water is:
"The oxidation of ethylene takes place with a giving off
of heat, and it is, of course, desirable to maintain the tempetature of the zone of reaction within the range specified.
This can be facilitated by suitable dilution of the reaction

U.S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 675
668

Opinion of the Court.

gases, such as that accomplished by the use of air as the
source of oxygen, and some water or carbon dioxide in addition to that formed can be admitted to the mixture in
the reaction zone if desired. Hydrogen may be similarly
added."
The description of the mode of conducting the process
differs from all those given in the original specification in
omitting the introduction of water.
The specification concludes:
"In any case, the ethylene and oxygen are thus reacted
simultaneously at the temperatures set forth in the presence of a surface catalyst and of water . .
The new claims 8 and 9 are broader than those of the
original patent.' It will suffice to quote 8. It is:
"The process of making ethylene oxide by the direct
chemical combination of oxygen with ethylene in the proportions of one atom of oxygen to one molecule of
ethylene, which comprises forming a mixture containing
ethylene and molecular oxygen and conducting said mixture through a confined reaction zone which is maintained
at an elevated temperature; controlling said temperature
to maintain said mixture in said zone at a temperature
between about 150' and about 4000 C.; subjecting said
mixture in said zone at said elevated controlled temperature to intimate contact with an active surface catalyst"
[describing it, inter alia, as one which favors the formation of "oxidation products containing ethylene oxide in
thq presence of water."] and describing other steps not
necessary to be recited.
The question is whether, in the light of the disclosures
contained in the two patents, they are for the same
invention. This court has said that they are if the reissue
"This fact, standing alone, does not vitiate the reissue.
Topliff, 145 U. S. 156.

Toplifi v.

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

fully describes and claims the very invention intended
to be secured by the original patent; I if the reissue describes and claims only those things which were embraced
in the invention intended to have been secured by the
original patent; " if the broader claims in the reissue are
not merely suggested or indicated in the original specification but constitute parts or portions of the invention
which were intended or sought to be covered or secured
by the original patent.' The required intention does not
appear if the additional matter covered by the claims of
the reissue is not disclosed in the original patent? If
there be failure of disclosure in the original patent of
matter claimed in the reissue, it will not aid the patentee
that the new matter covered by the reissue was within his
knowledge when he applied for his original patent."
And it is not enough that an invention might have been
claimed in the original patent because it was suggested
or indicated in the specification. It must appear from
the face of the instrument that What is covered by the
reissue was intended to have been covered and secured
by the original. 1
As the Circuit Court of Appeals held, the original specification and claims treated the voluntary introduction of
water into the reaction chamber as a necessary step in the
'Powder Co. v. Powder Works, 98 U. S. 126, 138.
'Parker & Whipple Co. v. Yale Clock Co., 123 U. S. 87, 99; Hoskin
v. Fisher,125 U. S. 217, 223; Flower v. Detroit, 127 U. S. 563, 571.
Corbin Cabinet Lock Co. v. Eagle Lock Co., 150 U. S. 38, 42.
'Clements v. Odorless Excavating Apparatus Co., 109 U. S. 641,

647; Coon v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268, 277; Electric Gas-Lighting Co. v..
Boston Electric Co., 139 U. S. 481, 501; Freeman v. Asmus, 145 U. S.
226, 239; Olin v. Timken, 155 U. S. 141, 147.
20Powder Co. v. Powder Works, supra, p. 138; Manufacturing Co.
v. Ladd, 102 U.,S. 408, 413; Huber v. Nelson Mfg. Co., 148 U.. S. 270.
" Parker& Whipple Co. vi Yale Clock Co., supra;Flower v. Detroit,
supra.

U. S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 677.
668

Opinion of the Court.

process, whereas such introduction is made permissive by
the reissue. We agree with that court's view that there is
thus a difference between the procedure described in the
two documents. But we cannot agree with its conclusion
that the difference is so insubstantial as not to invalidate
the new claims 8 and 9. On the face of the papers, the
process described in the original patent included a step
not designated as optional or desirable but described and
claimed as an integral part of the whole operation. In
contrast, the reissue treats this step as immaterial and
mentions the introduction of water as for the mere purpose of controlling the temperature in the reaction zone,a thought not even suggested by the specification of the
original patent, which, on the contrary, in its very first
sentence, speaks of the simultaneous action of the oxygen
of air and of water.
We think it plain that the reissue omitted a step in the
process which was described and claimed as essential in
the original patent. The court below -was persuaded by
expert testimony th4 t, from a chemist's point of view, the
prescribed step (the introduction of water) was immaterial; in other words, chemists testified that, by carrying
out the procedure, omitting the introduction of water,
they obtained the results described in the patent. Naturally enough, this fact led them to state, as chemists,
that the introduction of the water was immaterial. Apparently this testimony induced both of the courts below
to conclude that Lefort, when he applied for his original
patent, knew that the introduction of water was unnecessary. The inquiry at once arises, if this were so, why did
he not say so. If he had discovered a process, which the
claims of the reissue are certainly broad enough to cover,that of mixing dry oxygen and ethylene in the presence of
a catalyst at the prescribed temperature to produce
ethylene oxide,-it is not understood why, throughout his'

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

specifications and claims, he spoke of exposing ethylene to
the simultaneous action of oxygen and water or steam.
We think the court below fell into error in adopting the
scientific conclusion of expert witnesses that the result
would be the same whether water were introduced into the
reaction chamber or not, as proof that Lefort's invention
was not what he stated it to be in his original patent but
rather the invention of a process of bringing ethylene and
oxygen into contact in the presence of a catalyst.
Although it is the duty of a court to determine for itself,
by examination of the original and the reissue, whether
they are for the same invention, it is permissible, and often
necessary, .to receive expert evidence to ascertain the
meaning of a technical or scientific term or term of art so
that the court may be aided in understanding not what the
instruments mean.but what they actually say. 2 It is inadmissible o enlarge the scope of the original patent by
recourse to expert testimony to the effect that a process
described and claimed in the reissue, different from .that
described and claimed in the original patent, is, because
equally efficacious, in substance that claimed originally."
If such testimony could tip the scales on the issue of the
validity of a reissue, it would always. be possible to substitute any new combination, of steps or elements or devices for the one originally described and claimed by
proving that the omission of any one or more steps would
not alter the result.
This court has uniformly held that the omission from a
reissue patent of one of the steps or elements prescribed
in the original, thus broadening the claims to cover a new
and different combination, renders the reissue void, even
though the result attained is the same as that brought
about by following the process claimed in the original
patent.
" Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 546.

" Collar Co. v. Van Dusen, 23 Wall. 530, 557.

U. S. CHEMICALS CO. v. CARBIDE CORP. 679
668

Opinion of the Court.

In Russell v. Dodge, 93 U. S. 460, the original patent was
for treating skins by the use of a compound in which
heated fat liquor was expressly stated as an essential ingredient. There was no disclosure that the fat liquor
could be used cold. In a reissue the specification was
altered by eliminating the requirement that the liquor be
heated. The court said:
"The change made in the old specification, by eliminating the necessity of using the fat liquor in a heated condition, and making in the new specification its use in that
condition a mere matter of convenience, and the insertion
of an independent claim for the use of fat liquor in the
treatment of leather generally, operated to enlarge the
character and scope of the invention. The evident object
of the patentee in seeking a reissue was not to correct any
defects in specification or claim, but to change both, and
thus obtain, in fact, a patent for a different invention.
This result the law, as we have seen, does not permit."
In Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1, the original patent disclosed
and claimed a macl~ine for making hat bodies. One of
the elements of the machine was a tunnel through which a
current of air was to be passed. The specifications did not
indicate that this part could be omitted. The reissue for
a machine without any tunnel, was held invalid. The court
said (p. 26):
"Argument to show that an invention consisting of a
combination of three ingredients which are old is not the
same as that of a combination of four old ingredients is
quite unnecessary, as the negative of the proposition is as
well settled in the patent law as it is in mathematics."
Many other cases might be cited to the same effect.
The court below was persuaded to construe the reissue
patent as not differing from the original by the argument
that, in both, the introduction of water was not essential
to the technological success of the process. When certiorari was applied for in this court, the respondent in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

brief said: "The introduction of water, as distinguished
from its presence, in the reaction zone is not 'an essential
feature' in the invention at bar, and was not 'described
and claimed in the original patent as an essential
feature.'"
This argument goes upon the theory that if the presence of water is necessary to the reaction, its presence is
assured by the side reaction we have mentioned which produces C0 2 and water. It does not explain, however, why,
if this is the source of the necessary water, Lefort did not
say so in his original patent. Nor does it suggest how the
reaction can be initiated or caused when dry oxygen is
used and the side reaction has not commenced.
In the argument on the merits in this court, the respondent shifted its position. In brief and argument it stated
that both the original and reissue cover the same invention, for, if both require the introduction of water, the described introduction of air effects also the introduction of
water since atmospheric air contains both oxygen and
moisture. It is thus sought to avoid the finding of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that the original patent called
for the voluntary introduction of water and the reissue
does not. This argument fails to square with the specification or claims of either the original patent or the reissue.
The claims of the original patent are not limited to the
oxygen of air; and the specification merely says the
oxygen "can be the oxygen of air." The specification and
claims of the reissue are satisfied by the introduction of
dry oxygen.
In short, to avoid the difficulties which stare one in the
face when the attempt is made to read specifications .and
claims as calling for the same process, the respondent is
driven to take inconsistent positions, neither of which
comports with the plain language of the two patents.

TULEE v. WASHINGTON.
Counsel for Parties.

668

We hold that the reissue is not for the same invention
described and claimed and intended to be secured by the
original patent, and is, therefore, void.
The decree is
Reversed.
TULEE v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 318. Argued March 3, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.
Under the provision of the treaty of May 29, 1855, with the Yakima
Indians, reserving to the members of the tribe the right to take

fish "at all usual and accustomed places, in common with the citizens" of Washington Territory, the State of Washington has the
power to impose on the Indians equally with others such restrictions of a purely regulatory nature concerning the time and manner of fishing outside the reservation as are necessary for the conservation of fish, but it can not require them to pay license fees
that are both regulatory and revenue-producing. P. 685.

7 Wash. 2d 124, 109 P. 2d 280, reversed.

from a judgment affirming a conviction of a
member of the Yakima Tribe of Indians on a charge of
catching salmon with a net without first having o" tained
a license as required by state law.
APPEAL

Mr. Nathan R. Margold, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Mr. Kenneth R. L. Simmons were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. T. H. Little, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Washington, with whom Messrs. Smith Troy,
Attorney General, and E. P. Donnelly were on the brief,
for appellee.

