OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

But while this historic controversy over the constitutional limitations upon the power of courts in rate cases
is not presented here, if it be deemed that courts have
nothing to do with rate-making because that task was
committed exclusively to the Commission, surely it is a
usurpation of the Commission's function to tell it how it
should discharge this task and how it should protect the
various interests that are deemed to be in its, and not in
our, keeping.
PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO., S.

EN

C.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 95. Argued February 3, 4, 1942.-Decided March 16, 1942.

In aid of the operation of an irrigation district on a stream in Puerto
Rico, the insular Commissioner of the Interior made contracts with
a company owning rights to divert water from the stream for the
irrigation of lands not embraced in the district, whereby, in consideration of a suspension of the company's water rights in certain
particulars, the insular Government undertook to deliver to it at
its intakes specified quantities of water regularly, as the fair equivalent of the rights suspended. Held, that the Commissioner had
statutory authority to make the contracts and that a later statute
which sought to recoup part of the cost of maintaining and operating
the district system by imposing annual assessments, erroneously
called "taxes," on the company's lands, impaired the obligation of
the contracts in violation of the insular Organic Act. P. 616.
118 F. 2d 225, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 589, to review a judgment which,
reversing a judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico, 56 P. R. Dec. 343, reinstated a judgment of the insular District Court dismissing the complaint in an action
brought by Puerto Rico to recover sums claimed as taxes.
For earlier phases see, 21 F. 2d 1012; 60 F. 2d 10; 288
U. S. 476.

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William CattronRigby, with whom Messrs. George
A. Malcolm, Attorney General of Puerto Rico, and Nathan
R. Margold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George M. Wolfson for respondent.
MR.JUSTIcE

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question for decision is whether a statute of Puerto
Rico impairs the obligation of certain contracts in violation
of the Island's organic law.'
The respondent's predecessor in title, Fortuna Estates,
as owner or lessee of lands adjacent to the Jacaguas River,
enjoyed under Spanish law, and respondent, as successor,
still enjoys, rights appurtenant to the lands to draw
from the river 12,612.1 acre-feet of water per year for
irrigation.
Puerto Rico adopted a law in 1908 'which authorized an
irrigation system, as part of which a dam was to be erected
in Jacaguas River above Fortuna's intakes. Fortuna's
lands were not within or a part of the irrigation district.
Although the operation of the system would interfere
with Fortuna's water rights, they were not condemned, as
the statute permitted, nor were they voluntarily surrendered.
By an amendatory law adopted in 1913,' it was provided:
"In the case of any land carrying a water right or concession of which the source of supply is destroyed or impaired
by the construction or operation of the irrigation system,
which shall not have been relinquished or surrendered to
the People of Porto Rico, such land shall be entitled to receive from the irrigation system an amount of water which
is the reasonable equivalent in value of the said water right
"No law impairing the obligation of contracts shall be enacted."

48 U. S. C. ยง 737.

-Act of September 18, 1908, Laws of Porto Rico, 1909, p. 152.

'Act of August 8, 1913, Laws of Porto Rico, 1914, p. 54, ยง 13.

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

or concession." This Act empowered the Commissioner
of the Interior to make agreements with holders of such
rights, fixing the amount, and the time, place, and conditions of delivery, of water to be received as the equivalent
of the rights suspended.
In the exercise of this authority the Commissioner executed contracts with Fortuna which called for the suspension of its rights appurtenant to two large tracts during the
life of the contracts and assured delivery of a specified
amount of water at Fortuna's intakes as the fair equivalent
of the rights suspended.
Each contract enumerated the rights to take water appurtenant to a described tract of land which would be
impaired or interrupted by the operation of the irrigation
system; recited that the amount of water taken by Fortuna
under its rights varied throughout the year, due to differences in rainfall, so that it was impossible to determine in
advance the amount of water to which it would be entitled
in any given period; and that Porto Rico was willing to
deliver from the Jacaguas Riyer the water to which Fortuna was entitled, but, in order to make the operation of
the system more certain, desired to agree upon a fixed and
regular amount which should be received by Fortuna as
the fair equivalent in value for irrigation purposes of the
water it would ordinarily take and use under its existing
rights.
The contract then stated the agreement of the parties
as to the quantities of water which, delivered in equal
daily instalments, were to be considered such fair equivalents and the petitioner covenanted to deliver these quantities to Fortuna. It was also agreed that Fortuna might
exercise its preexisting rights for ten days in each year to
prevent their loss by non-user.
Under the Irrigation Law, lands in a district were subjected to a uniform annual assessment per acre to discharge
the cost of construction, maintenan -e, and operation of

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

Opinion of the Court.

the system. Sales were also made of surplus waters and
the ,proceeds used for maintenance.
Shortly after the contracts were made, a controversy
arose between petitioner and respondent with respect to
Puerto Rico's right to sell surplus waters. Litigation ensued which terminated in a decree restraining the insular
government from diverting certain surplus waters to which
the respondent was held to be entitled under the contracts.
The decision also upheld the validity of the contracts.'
Thereupon the legislature adopted, July 8, 1921, "An
Act Fixing a Tax on Certain Lands using water from the
Southern Coast Public Irrigation System, on which lands
no Tax Whatever was Levied under the Public Irrigation
Law, and for Other Purposes." 5 This is the statute enforcement of which is asserted to impair the obligation
of the contracts. By this act a special tax is imposed on
all lands supplied which, under existing law, contribute
nothing to the expense of the maintenance of the system.
The Treasurer of Puerto Rico is directed to compute the
tax by finding the aggregate acreage receiving water from
the system including lands, like those of respondent, outside the district but receiving the equivalents of their
preexisting rights under contracts. He' is to assess a
prorata share of the total expense against the lands of
respondent and others similarly circumstanced. The
Act, as is admitted, was aimed only at those who, like
respondent, had contracted for the receipt of water in lieu
of that, to which they were of right entitled and whose
lands were not a part of the irrigation district.
Action was instituted by petitioner in an insular court
for the recovery of several years taxes so imposed.6 The
'Porto Rico v. Russell & Co., 268 F. 723.
Act 49 of 1921, Laws of Porto Rico, 1921, p. 366.
'The preceding litigation aild the necessity for bringing action for
the tax rather than proceeding summarily will be found in Galiardov.
Havemeyer, 21 F. 2d 1012, and the Act of Congress of April 23, 1928,
45 Stat. 447.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

cause was removed to the United States District Court,
where a motion to remand was denied and a judgment entered for the respondent on the merits. The judgrent
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit7 but was reversed by this court for want of di-

versity of citizenship on which jurisdiction of the federal
courts depended
After remand, the case was tried in the insular district
court and the complaint was dismissed on the merits, on
the ground that Act No. 49, of 1921, was an invalid impairment of the obligation of the 1914 contracts. The
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico reversed and rendered
judgment for the petitioner.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals in turn reversed and reinstated the judgment of
the insular district court."0 We granted certiorari, as
the case presents an important question arising under the
Insular Organic Act. We hold that the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was right.
By the Act of 1908, 11 the people of Puerto Rico undertook the construction of a public irrigation system. This
necessitated the erection of a dam for impounding and
storage of part of the waters of the Jacaguas River above
the respondent's intakes, and the creation of an irrigation
district. The statute recognized the necessity of providing a method for the acquisition of the rights of riparian
owners whose land lay below the dam. Section 12 authorized the condemnation of existing water rights and the
payment of their fair value to the owners. By the amendatory Act of 1913, the owners of lands which fell within
the irrigation district could release their preexisting rights,
have them valued, and be paid the value by credits against
F. 2d 10.
Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co., 288 U. S. 476.

760
8

56 P. R. Dec. 343.
118 F. 2d 225.
"Supra, Note 2.

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

Opinion of the Court.

their proportionate share of the expense of the construction and operation of the system.12 By ยง 13, owners of
lands having water rights, whose source of supply would
be destroyed or impaired by the construction or operation
of the system, who had not surrendered or relinquished
their rights, were declared entitled to receive from the irrigation system an amount of water which would be the
reasonable equivalent in value of the right or concession so
destroyed or impaired. The Commissioner was authorized to negotiate contracts to this end with such owners.
It is evident that it was thought that lands such as
those of the respondent could not be included within the
proposed district. It is idle to speculate concerning the
reasons for this decision, though it is clear that in order
to realize the Government's purpose it was deemed necessary to reach an accommodation concerning preexisting
valid water rights of land owners whose lands could not
or should not be included in the irrigation district. In
the case of such persons the purpose was to substitute a
fair equivalent for the rights theretofore exercised. Such
an arrangement offered mutual advantages to Puerto Rico
and to the owners. Whereas Fortuna had, prior to the
erection of the dam, the right to take over 12,000 acrefeet of water per year for irrigation, a proportion of surplus
waters, and certain torrential waters, the supply was uneven and uncertain due to the irregularity of rainfall. It
was, therefore, an advantage to the respondent's predecessor to surrender its maximum rights in consideration of
an agreement that there should be delivered to it, equally
and evenly throughout the year, something less than the
maximum it was entitled to take under preexisting conditions. On the other hand, it was an advantage to the
irrigation system that it should not be obliged at any time
to deplete its storage waters by furnishing the respondent
'2 Supra, Note

3.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the maximum amount which, if the water were available,
it was entitled to receive.
The Insular Supreme Court held that the exaction is
not precluded by the contracts, and works no impairment of their obligation. It held the exaction is a tax;
that the rights which the respondent owned prior to the
construction of the irrigation system were taxable, and
that the privileges it enjoys under the contract are
equally so; that the contract contains no covenant not
to tax these rights or privileges and, if it did, it would
be beyond the power of the Commissioner. We cannot
agree.
The assessment contemplated by Act No. 49 of 1921
is not a general tax laid for the support of government
upon a property right or a franchise. This is expressly
admitted by the petitioner in brief and in oral argument.
In the brief it is said: "The special taxes or assessments
here in question, if and when collected, will simply accrue
to the special fund for the current operation and maintenance of the irrigation district, and thus serve only to
lower the assessments upon other lands now taxed for
such operation and maintenance. The insular Treasury
can derive no direct benefit." And, in oral argument,
counsel for petitioner frankly conceded that the money
to be raised is not taxes in any way but merely an assessment against the respondent's land for the cost of delivering the water. If Puerto Rico had essayed to tax
respondent's lands or its water rights by a general law,
quite distinct questions would arise which we need not
discuss.
Treated as an assessment of part of the cost of maintenance of the irrigation system, the petitioner insists
that the exaction does not violate the obligation of the
1914 contracts.- It asserts that the agreements-were only
that a given amount of water would be released, or made
available, or allotted to respondent and therefore The

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

Opinion of the Court.

People of Puerto Rico are free to charge to respondent
the cost of delivering the water; and, further, that if the
contracts, by their terms, precluded the imposition upon
the respondent of this cost they are beyond the power
of the Commissioner.
Section 13 of the Act of 1913 authorizes the Commissioner "to enter into agreements with such owner or
owners as to the amount of water and the time, place and
conditions of delivery thereof, which shall be delivered
to the lands to which the said water rights or concessions
are appurtenant as the fair equivalent in value thereof,
We think it evident from this language that the
. ."
Commissioner was not limited to agreeing to allot to the
land-owner a certain amount of water, but was empowered to stipulate that at certain times he would cause to
be delivered, at specified places, the water which respondent was to receive as the equivalent of that which it had
formerly been entitled to take at its intakes along the
river. That the Commissioner so construed his authority is plain from the terms of the contracts.
Each contract describes the rights appurtenant to the
lands in question, acknowledges their validity, states the
amounts of water the respondent's predecessor is entitled
to take, and, in consideration of the mutual covenants
of the parties, stipulates "that the quantities of water
specified" in the agreement, "delivered uniformly
through the year, subject to the terms and conditions
specified in this agreement, . . . are the fair equivalent
in value of the water which the said Fortuna Estates
takes-under and pursuant to the concessions and water
rights claimed by it, and The People of Porto Rico will,
subject to the conditions and limitations hereinafter specified and at the times, places and subject to the conditions of delivery hereinafter provided for, make delivery"
of the amounts of water specified in the agreement.
Each contract further provides that "The People of
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Porto Rico will deliver the said water as follows." One
agreement covenants that the water deliverable for some
of the tracts shall be at the intakes provided by the
owner, and that water deliverable to another tract shall
in part be deliverable at such an intake and in part at a
pumping station on the bank of the river. The right is
reserved, upon notice by The People of Porto Rico, to
change the place of delivery of certain of the water. It
is further provided that if delivery at the points designated is temporarily interrupted, Porto Rico will deliver
an equivalent amount of water at some other point. It
is agreed that the presence of water in the river bed at
the opening of the described intakes, sufficient to permit
the owner to take the quantities specified in the agreement, shall be deemed a delivery within the meaning of
the contract. A clause provides that should the owner
desire to take water for certain of the tracts at places
other than the present intakes, Porto Rico will deliver
the water at such other places but that "all extra expenses occasioned by such delivery shall be borne by"
the owner.
The obligation of Porto Rico to deliver the named
quantities is recognized in many clauses of the contracts.
As applied to the petitioner, the word "deliver" appears
ten times in each contract, the word "delivery" nine
times, and the word "deliverable" four times, in one of
the documents. From the four corners of the agreements it is clear that, in consideration of the suspension
of the rights of Fortuna, and its successor, the respondent, the insular government agreed .not merely to allot,
but to deliver, at specified places, certain quantities of
water. Prior to the execution of the contracts, Fortuna
was under no obligation to the.-government to pay it any
cost or expense for the bringing of the water to its intakes. The contract clearly contemplates that it is to be
under none with respect to the water agreed to be

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

delivered to it in lieu of that which it formerly had the
right to take. This fact is emphasized by the provision
that, if it desires delivery at other places than those specified in the contracts, it shall bear the expense entailed
by the change.
The deficit in the maintenance cost of the system was
met, for some time, by the sale of surplus water. The
contract gives the respondent the right to a portion of
such surplus water over and above the specified amounts
to be delivered by the petitioner. The respondent sued
to enjoin the petitioner from selling the surplus water
to which it claimed to be entitled. The suit resulted in
an injunction. The Government being thus deprived of
the revenue theretofore used towards the maintenance of
the system, adopted the Act of 1921 with the evident
purpose of recouping a portion of that expense from the
respondent and others with whom it had made contracts
in 1914 for the delivery of the stipulated amount of
water to them without charge therefor. The history of
the legislation shows that the proposed exaction was not
a general tax but was an effort to collect from persons
whose land was not in the irrigation system a portion of
the expense of maintaining that system, whereas the
contracts exempted them from contributing to such cost
as a condition of receiving the stipulated amount of
water from the system. This was a clear violation of
the obligation of the contracts.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

There was no provision whatsoever in the grant of
these water rights exempting them from any form of
taxation. Hence if no contract had been made and the
irrigation system had been constructed and respondent's
lands had been serviced in precisely the same way as

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DouGlAS, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

was done here, I should think that there would be no
doubt but that the assessment would be valid' The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico relied for the validity of the
assessment on such cases as Knowles v. New Sweden Irrigation District, 16 Ida. 217, 235, 101 P. 81, 87, and
Bleakley v. Priest Rapids Irrigation Dist., 168 Wash.
67, 11 P. 2d 597. Those cases hold that, under certain
circumstances, the owner of a water right may be
brought into an irrigation district and forced to pay an
assessment. *As stated in the Knowles case (p. 241):
"Under our irrigation law as it existed at the time of
the organization of this district and the assessments referred to were made, if the land of the plaintiff was properly included in said irrigation district, it was subject to
assessment for benefits, provided it received any,
whether the owner of said land owned a water right in
connection therewith or not; for a person in an irrigation
district may receive certain benefits regardless of whether
the owner has a water right in connection therewith
or not."
The reasons which permit the owner of a water right
to be brought into an irrigation district are equally
cogent here. For, the impact of this assessment is not
more rigorous than the assessment attendant on membership in an irrigation district. In fact, it is less, since
respondent is being assessed only for a prorata share of
the cost of maintenance and operation of the system, not
its construction.
It was clear and undisputed that respondent obtained
substantial benefits from the irrigation system, (1) The
quantity of water received by respondent from the system is 19% larger than what previously had been available from the earlier limited flow of the river. (2) The
storage reservoir impounds flood waters which would be
largely lost to respondent. The dam not only increases
the amount of water available but makes possible regu-

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

lar and more continuous deliveries of the water.

(3)

The irrigation system has tapped new sources of water
which feed the reservoir. No separation of that additional supply of water from the old supply is possible.
As a result, respondent obtains additional advantages,
especially in dry years. (4) By reason of the construction and operation of the irrigation system, the water
is available at several different distribution points
through canals rather than at the river bed alone.
In that posture of the case, we would be faced with a
determination by the legislature of Puerto Rico that respondent's lands were benefited and that respondent
should pay an assessment. It has long been held that
such a "determination is conclusive upon the owners and
the courts." Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356.
And see Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Walston
v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578. As stated in Fallbrook IrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164 U. S.112, 176, 177, "the fact
of the amount of benefits is not susceptible of that accurate determination which appertains to a demonstration
in geometry"; the choice of methods employed "is one
of thoge matters of detail in arriving at the proper and
fair amount and proportion of the tax that is to be levied
on the land with regard to the benefits it has received,
which is open to the discretion of the state legislature,
and with which this court ought to have nothing to do."
And see French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S.
324; Milheim v. Moffat Tunnel Improvement Dist., 262
U. S.710, 721; Roberts v. Richland IrrigationDist., 289
U. S. 71; Chesebro v. Los Angeles County Flood Control
Dist., 306 U. S.459.
The existence of the contracts does not call for a different result. The statute in question provided that
owners of water rights, such as respondent, "shall be entitled to receive from. the irrigation system an amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

water which is the reasonable equivalent in value of the
said water right or concession." The Commissioner of
the Interior was authorized "to enter into agreements
with such owner or owners as to the amount of water and
the time, place and conditions of delivery thereof, which
shall be delivered to the lands to which the said water
rights or concessions are appurtenant as the fair equivalent in value thereof." Act No. 128, ยง 13, August 8,
191j, L. 1914, pp. 54"84. The contracts, as well as-the
statute, speak of "delivery" of the water., But the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico interpreted the contracts as
meaning that respondent "agreed to receive [italics supplied] from the irrigation system a certain quantity of
water in exchange" for its water rights. I do not think
that that construction is unwarranted.
(1) The contracts themselves make plain that, as respects certain intakes on the river, "the presence of water
in the river bed . . . in quantities sufficient to permit

the taking at the said intakes of the amounts of water
specified shall be deemed to be deliveries." That provision alone demonstrates that the Supreme Court of
Puerto Rico was justified in interpreting "delivery" in
these contracts differenily than might be warranted in
case of contracts-for the cartage of goods. "The word
'deliver' has perhaps as many different shades of meaning ascertained by judicial interpretation as any other
term known to the law." United States v. MeCready,
11 F. 225, 234. The problems of operation of an irigation system are unique in many respects. Manipulation
of the gates at .the dam determines the flow of water
through the various channels. Puerto Rico's undertaking in each instance was to "deliver" water at specified
intakes provided by respondent. Those intakes were in
the river or in designated reservoirs provided by respondent. It seems reasonable to conclude that Puerto Rico's

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

DouGws, J., dissenting.

undertaking was to make the specified quantities of water
available so that they would be received at those intakes.
To enforce the present tax is not to renig on that undertaking. The fact that respondent was to bear "all extra
expenses" in case water was delivered at intakes other
than the designated ones seems to me hardly more than
a provision that respondent was to bear the cost in case
the irrigation system had to be partially relocated to
meet its requirements. In any event, it does no more
than raise a doubt as to the correct interpretation of the
contract--a doubt which, as subsequently pointed out,
should not be resolved against the power of Puerto Rico
to impose this tax.
(2) It seems to me tolerably clear that such a construction of the contracts comports with the purpose of the arrangement. The contracts state that Puerto Rico, "in order to facilitate and make more certain the operation of
the said dam and the irrigation system of which it is a part,
desires to determine and agree upon an amount of water
which, delivered regularly, may, under all attending circumstances, be considered to be fair equivalent in value
for irrigation purposes of the amount of water which the
Fortuna Estates would under ordinary circumstances take
and use under the said water rights and concessions." The
amount of water actually obtained by respondent before
the dam was erected apparently fell far below the amount
to which it was entitled under their -water rights. The
contracts were designed to substitute for that latter theoretical figure one which would represent a "fair equivalent
in value for irrigation purposes" of the amount of water
which respondent would "under ordinary circumstances
take and use" under its water rights. From Puerto Rico's
point of view, such a determination was important so that
the demands on the dam could be reduced to known requirements and so that, the erection of the dam would not

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

result in a windfall to respondent. The latter certainly
would transpire if the dan gave respondent an amount of
water which it had not been able to obtain on its own without the irrigation system. Thus the specification in the
contracts of the "fair equivalent" of the amount of water
which respondent ordinarily would obtain under its water
rights was nothing more than a determination of the then
worth of the water rights in terms of acre feet of water.
Under that view, the contracts did not raise the water
rights to a higher constitutional dignity than they previously enjoyed.
(3) N:' express exemption from this form of taxation is
to be found in the contracts. If that exemption exists, it is
implied. But even though it be assumed arguendo that
Puerto Rico's representative had the authority constitutionally to bargain away its taxing power, the exemption
should not be inferred. Chief Justice Marshall stated in'
Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 561, that a relinquishment of a power to tax "is never to be presumed";
"its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a case in
which the deliberate purpose of the state to abandop it does
not appear." If there are doubts, they must be resolved in
faVor of the government. Wells v. Savannah, 181 U. S.
531; Chicago Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S.
662; MetropolitanStreet Ry. Co. v. New York, 199 U. S. 1,
35-36. As stated in Wells v. Savannah,supra,pp. 539-540,
a contract of exemption from taxation must "be clearly
proved. It will not be inferred from facts which do not
lead irresistibly and necessarily to the existence of the contract. The facts proved must show either a contract expressed in terms, or else it must be implied from facts which
leave r.o room for doubt that such was the intention of the
parties and that a valid consideration existed for the contract. If there be any doubt on these matters, the contract
has not been proven and the exemption does not exist."

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.
610

DouGas, J., dissenting.

That rule should be applied to this situation. It is clear
that respondent is one of the beneficiaries of the irrigation
system, even though the additional amount of water which
the erection of the dam enabled it to obtain be disregaided.
The meaning of the word "delivery" as used in the contracts is at best ambiguous. Hence, we should strictly
adhere to the presumption against exemption from taxation. To resolve all ambiguities in the contracts in respondent's favor and against Puerto Rico is to forsake a
canon of construction which has long obtained.
In conclusion, Puerto Rico has not treated respondent
the same as landowners who have no water rights. The
latter have to pay for the construction of the irrigation system as well as for its maintenance and operation.
Respondent, on the other hand, is merely required to contribute towards the cost of maintenance and operation of
the system. On these facts, that favored treatment is
sufficient respect for the integrity of respondent's property rights. To free it from all burden is to give it a windfall. Only under the compulsion of plain and unambiguous
language should we permit a beneficiary of such a project
to escape his fair share of .the costs. There is no such compulsion here. Hence we should refuse to let the contract
clause of Puerto Rico's organic law produce an inequitable,
unfair, and harsh result.
MR. JusTIcE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

JusTICE BmNEs join in this dissent.

and'MR.

