D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
442

447

Syllabus.

105 U. S. 303. Aggregation of plaintiffs' claim cannot be
made merely because the claims are derived from a single
instrument, Pinel v. Pnel, 240 U. S.594, or because the
plaintiffs have a community of interest, Clark v. Paul
Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583. In a diversity litigation the
value of the "matter in controversy" is measured not by
the monetary result of determining the principle involved,
but by its pecuniary consequence to those involved in the
litigation. Wheless v. St. Louis, 180 U. S. 379, 382; Oliver
v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143, 147.
The record contains no showing of the requisite jurisdictional amount, and the District Court was therefore
without jurisdiction. The judgment will be reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court without prejudice to an application for leave to amend the bill of
complaint.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO., INC. v. FEDERAL
DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206.

Argued January 9, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. Jurisdiction of the District Court of an action by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to collect a note, part of the assets acquired by the Corporation as collateral securing a loan made by it
to a state bank, is based upon the fact that the plaintiff is a federal
corporation suing under an Act of Congress authorizing it to sue
and be sued "in any court of law or equity, State or Federal," and
providing that "All suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity to which the Corporation shall be a party shall be deemed to

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

arise under the laws of the United States." Federal Reserve Act,
§ 12B. P. 455.
2. Whether the doctrine of Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Mfg. Co.,
313 U. S. 487, requiring a federal District Court to follow the conflict-of-law rules of the State in which it sits, is applicable where federal jurisdiction is not based on diversity of citizenship, need not
be decided where the issue is a federal question. P. 456.
3. In view of the federal policy evinced by the Federal Reserve Act,
§ 12B (s) and former subdivision (y), to protect the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation and the public funds which it administers
against misrepresentations of the assets of banks which it insures or
to which it makes loans, the maker of a note which was part of the
assets of a state bank when the Corporation insured it and was acquired later by the Corporation as part of the collateral furnished
by the bank for a subsequent loan, is estopped to defend against the
Corporation upon the ground that the note was accommodation
paper, given without consideration and upon an understanding that
it would not be collected, in order to enable the bank to carry it as a
real asset in lieu of defaulted paper and thereby deceive the public
examiners. Pp. 459, 461.
4. Although the maker of the note here involved did not know that it
was to be used to deceive the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which had not then been created, yet the permission which
the maker gave the bank to carry the note as a real asset was a continuing one and had not been revoked when the Corporation acquired the paper; and that permission must be presumed to have
included authority from the maker to treat the note as genuine for
the purposes of examination by public authorities as well as for
general banking activities. P. 459.
5. Inasmuch as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was authorized to insure a state bank only on a certificate from state authority that the bank was solvent, it is presumed that in this case
such certificate was given. P. 460.
6. The inability of the accommodation maker to plead the defense of
no consideration does not depend upon the commission of a penal
offense in violation of § 12B (s) of the Federal Reserve Act, but upon
whether the note was designed to deceive the creditors or the public
examining authority, or would tend to have that effect. P. 460.
7. The fact that the note was charged off by the bank after the'bank
had been insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and
before the latter had acquired the note under the loan, is immaterial,

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

449

Argument for Petitioner.

since a note may be nonetheless an asset though it is charged off,
and the suit here is to protect the rights of the Corporation as insurer. The right to recover on the note is not dependent upon proof
of loss or damage caused by the fraudulent practice. P. 460.
117 F. 2d 491, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 592, to review the affirmance of a
judgment'holding the present petitioner liable to the respondent on a promissory -note.

Messrs. John W. Giesecke and Harold C. Ackert, with
whom Mr. FranklinE. Reagan was on the brief, for petitioner.
The renewal note sued on shows on its face that it
wasn't a negotiable instrument. It is against the public
policy of Missouri to hold a citizen of Missouri liable on an
accommodation note under the facts in this case, particularly so as there was a specific agreement not to sue which
constitutes a complete defense under the law of the forum.
Trautman v. Schroeder, 230 Mo. App. 985; Williams v.
Kessler, 295 S. W. 482; Peoples Bank v. Rankin, 220 Mo.
App. 205.
Under the Missouri rule of conflict of laws the renewal
note sued on would be construed to be a Missouri contract
and subject to all of the defenses urged by petitioner. See
Hansenv. Duvall, 62 S. W. 2d 732, 738; FederalChemical
Co. v. Hitt, 155 S. W. 2d 897, 902.
Even if the note had been delivered in Illinois, which
was not shown, it would have still remained a Missouri
contract. Smoot v. Judd, 161 Mo. 673.
R. S. Mo. 1929, § 806, cited by respondent, is simply a
rule of evidence dispensing with proof of a foreign law only
if it is pleaded. Clearly it is not a rule of pleading.
The acts claimed to constitute estoppel occurred before the federal Act was passed and before the beginning
of the corporate existence of the respondent. Further-

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

315 U. S.

more, the Bank remained solvent for more than five
years after the note sued on was given and for more than
three years after it was charged off by the Bank. The
note showed on its face that it was nonnegotiable, and at
the time the Bank closed was in default of ten semiannual interest payments and in default as to principal.
This, under Missouri law, charged respondent with notice of defenses. Furthermore, although it was executed
by a duly licensed brokerage house, a member of the
St. Louis Stock Exchange, the Bank, three years prior
to its failure and while still solvent, had charged the
note off (although it was apparently a good and collectible note unless it was subject to some defense).
Respondent was not damaged. The asserted estoppel
is wholly without substance.
Determination of the place of contract by general law
rather than the law of Missouri, the forum state, was
clearly erroneous. Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Mfg.
Co., 313 U. S. 487; Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498.
Jurisdiction in this case is governed by U. S. C., Tit.
12, § 264 (j) (Fourth), which permits the plaintiff corporation to sue or be sued in any state or federal court.
The spirit of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, and
subsequent cases, calls for a uniformity of decision so as
not to "disturb equal administration of justice in coordinate state and federal courts sitting side by side."
The fundamental principle of the Erie case is that
the federal courts do not have the power to declare rules
of decision in the broad field of general law.
Cf. Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. 5. 349.
It is unimportant whether jurisdiction in the federal
court is invoked by reason of diversity of citizenship or
on some other basis giving the state and federal courts
cordinate jurisdiction. Cf. Mishawaka Rubber &
Woolen Mfg. Co. v. S. S. Kresge Co., 119 F. 2d 316.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

451

Argument for Petitioner.

It has long been the substantive law in Missouri that
the courts of that State will not take judicial notice of
the law of any foreign state; that such law must be
pleaded and proved if a party expects to rely thereon,
and that a foreign law which has not been pleaded or
proved will be presumed to be the same as the law of
Missouri. See Rositzky v. Rositzky, 329 Mo. 662; Madden v. Railroad, 192 S. W. 455, 456; Kinsley Bank v.
Woods, 61 S. W. 2d 384; Gordon v. Andrews, 2 S. W.
2d 809.
If this case had been tried in the state court in Missouri,
even if the Missouri court had reached the conclusion
under the Missouri law that this was an Illinois contract
governed by the laws of Illinois, the Missouri court would
have ascertained the Illinois law, not from the Illinois
decisions as the court below did, but from the Missouri
decisions, for the reason that the Illinois law not having
been pleaded or proved would be presumed to be the same
as the Missouri law. It seems self-evident that in this
case the doctrine of the Erie case was not properly applied.
West v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 312 U. S.
223, and Fidelity Union Trust Co. v. Field, 312 U. S.
169.
This Court, prior to the decision in the Erie case, uniformly applied the very rule for which we are contending
to cases which came here on writ of error or certiorari
from a state court (see Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1;
Renaud v. Abbott, 116 U. S. 277), although it did not apply the rule in cases coming up through the federal courts
for the reason that it was then the accepted rule of general federal law that the federal courts took judicial notice
of the laws of all states. However, the Erie case held
there was no general federal law. Therefore, the rule of
state law applicable in a particular forum must be applied in all cases where there is concurrent jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for Petitioner.

315 U. S.

both state and federal courts, as here. Waggaman v.
General Finance Co., and Warfield v. General Finance
Co., 116 F. 2d 254, 257; A. B. v. C. D., 36 F. Supp. 85.
The Court of Appeals erred in failing to determine
whether a Missouri court would refuse to apply the Illinois law because of repugnancy between it and the law
of Missouri. Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498.
It is well established in Missouri that a renewal of an
accommodation note in no wise enlarges the rights of the
parties when it is given without consideration, and in no
way changes the rights under the original note. In this
case, the original notes were executed in Missouri and made
payable at the office of the maker in Missouri. The Missouri rule is indisputable that all defenses that were available against the original accommodation note are available
against renewal notes. Massa V. Huehnerhoff, 59 S. W.
2d 723; Farmers Bank v. Harris, 250 S. W. 946, 950;
Davies County Bank v. Grantham,13 S. W. 2d 1079, 1081;
Peoples Bank v. Yager, 221 Mo. App. 955; Ford v. Ford
Roofing Co., 285 S. W. 538, 541.
Whether the foreign law must be pleaded and proved is
not a procedural rule. Even if it were, the same result
would be reached, for then the matter would be governed
by the Conformity Act. Lyon v. Mutual Benefit Assn.,
305 U. S.484.
The three cases to which respondent refers as indicating that the rule in the Erie case "is probably not applicable to a suit to which the United States is a party" are
clearly inapplicable ard suggest a contrary inference. In
each of those cases this Court specifically stated that federal statutes or treaties were involved, and that no local
common law applied, thus indicating that had local common law been applicable, as in the case at bar, it would
have been applied. Board of Commissioners v. United
States, 308 U. S. 343; Royal Indemnity Co. v. United

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

453

Opinion of the Court.

States, 313 U. S. 289; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 I.
190.

S.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel, Paul A.
Sweeney, FrancisC. Brown, and James Kane were on the
brief, for respondent.
The court below was correct in applying the law of
Illinois, assuming that such law did not need to be pleaded
or proved.
The federal courts have heretofore taken judicial notice
of the laws of the several States. As a general rule, however, the state courts of Missouri may notice the laws of
a sister State only if pleaded.
The doctrine of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.64,
did not preclude the courts below from taking judicial
notice of the Illinois law in accordance with traditional
federal practice.
A Missouri statute abrogated the common law requirement that the laws of sister States must be proved by the
introduction of evidence, and left only the pleading requirement, which is inapplicable in the federal courts.
Even if the abrogation of the Missouri common law rule
of proof is conditioned upon the pleading of a sister-state
law, the doctrine of the Erie case did not preclude the
federal courts from taking judicial notice of the Illinois
law.
Petitioner is estopped to deny liability on the note under
federal statutory law and also under Illinois law, which
the courts of Missouri would be bound to apply.
MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent instituted this suit in the United States
District Court for the Eastern Division of the Eastern

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

District of Missouri on a demand note for $5000, executed
by petitioner in 1933 and payable to the Belleville Bank &
Trust Co., Belleville, Illinois. Respondent insured that
bank January 1, 1934; and it acquired the note in 1938 as
part of the collateral securing a loan of over $1,000,000
to the bank, made in connection with the assumption
of the latter's deposit liabilities by another bank. Since
1935 the note had been among the charged off assets of the
bank. The note was, executed by petitioner in renewal
of notes which it had executed in 1926. Petitioner, who
was engaged in the securities business at St. Louis, Missouri, had sold the bank certain bonds which later defaulted. The original notes were executed to enable the
bank to carry the notes and not show any past due bonds.
Proceeds of the bonds were to be credited on the notes.!
The receipts for the notes contained the statement, "This
note is given with the understanding it will not be called
for payment.. All interest payments to be repaid." Respondent had no knowledge of the existence of the receipts
until after demand for payment on the renewal note was
made in 1938. Certain interest payments on the notes
were made prior to renewal for the purpose of keeping
them "as live paper." Petitioner's president, who signed
the original notes, knew that they were executed so that
the past due bonds would not appear among the assets of
the bank, and that the purpose of the interest payments
was "to keep the notes alive." The original notes were
signed in St. Louis, Missouri, were payable at petitioner's
office there, and were delivered to the payee in Illinois.
The evidence does not disclose where the note sued upon
was signed, though it was dated at Belleville, Illinois, and
payable to the bank there.
'The bank sold some of the bonds in 1937 for $100 and credited
this amount to interest due on the note. This credit paid interest
to May 1, 1933. No later payments were made on the note.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

455

Opinion of the Court.

The main point of controversy here revolves around
the question as to what law is applicable. The District
Court held that Illinois law was applicable and that petitioner was liable. The Circuit Court of Appeals applied
"general law" to determine that the note was an Illinois
rather than a Missouri contract; and it decided that,
under Illinois law, respondent was the equivalent of a
holder in due course and entitled to recover. 117 F. 2d
491. Petitioner contends that, under the rule of Klaxon
Co. v. Stentor Electric Mfg. Co., 313 U. S. 487, a federal
court sitting in Missouri must apply Missouri's conflict
of law rules; that if, as was the case here, Illinois law was
not pleaded or proved, a Missouri court would have ascertained Illinois law from Missouri decisions, since in
such a case Illinois law would be presumed to be the same
as the Missouri law; and that the District Court was
bound to follow that same course. We granted the petition for certiorari because of the asserted conflict between
the decision below and Klaxon Co. v. Stentor ElectricMfg.
Co., supra.
We held in the latter decision that a failure of a federal
court in a diversity of citizenship case to follow the forum's
conflict of laws rules "would do violence to the principle
of uniformity within a state" upon which Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, was based. 313 U. S. at p. 496.
The jurisdiction of the District Court in this case, however, is not based on diversity of citizenship. Respondent, a federal corporation, brings this suit under an Act of
Congress authorizing it to sue or be sued "in any court of
law or equity, State or Federal." 2 See. 12 B, Federal
2

That subdivision of the Act further provides: "All suits of a civil

nature at common law or in equity to which the Corporation shall
be a party shall be deemed to arise under the laws of the United States:
Provided, That any such suit to which the Corporation is a party in
its capacity as receiver of a State bank and which involves only the

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Reserve Act; 12 U. S. C. § 264 (j) ; 48 Stat. 162, 168, 172;
49 Stat. 684, 692. And see 28 U. S. C. § 42, 43 Stat. 941.
Whether the rule of the Klaxon case applies where federal
jurisdiction is not based on diversity of citizenship, we
need not decide. For we are of the view that the liability
of petitioner on the note involves decision of a federal,
not a state, question under the rule of Deitrick v. Greaney,
309 U. S. 190.
Petitioner in its answer alleged that the note was given
without any consideration whatever and with the understanding that no suit would be brought thereon; and that
respondent was not a holder in due course. Respondent
in its reply alleged that petitioner was estopped to assert
those defenses on the grounds that the note was executed
for the purpose of permitting the bank to avoid having
its records show any past due bonds; that this constituted a misrepresentation which would deceive the
creditors of the bank, the state banking authorities and
respondent; that petitioner participated in the misrepresentation not only by reason of its knowledge as to the
purpose which the note would serve but also by reason
of its payment of interest in order to make the notes appear as a good asset. The District Court held that respondent was an innocent holder of the note in good faith
and for value and that petitioner was estopped to assert
want of consideration as a defense.
Sec. 12 B (s) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U. S. C.
§ 264 (s), provides that "Whoever, for the purpose of obtaining any loan from the Corporation . . . or for the
purpose of influencing in any way the action of the Corporation under this section, makes any statement, knowrights or obligations of depositors, creditors, stockholders and such
State bank under State law shall not be deemed to arise under the
laws of the United States." And see S. Rep. No. 1007, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 5.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

457

Opinion of the Court.

ing it to be false, or wilfully overvalues any security, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000, or by imprisonment for not more than two years, or both." Subdivision (y) of the same section provided, at the time
respondent insured the Belleville bank,' that such a state
bank "with the approval of the authority having supervision" of the bank and on "certification" to respondent "by such authority" that the bank "is in solvent condition" shall "after examination by, and with the -approval of" the respondent be entitled to insurance.
These provisions reveal a federal policy to protect respondent, and the public funds which it administers,
against misrepresentations as to the securities or other
assets in the portfolios of the banks which respondent insures or to which it makes loans. If petitioner and the
bank had arranged to use the note for the express purpose
of deceiving respondent on insurance of the bank, or on
the making of the loan, the case would be on all fours
with Deitrick v. Greaney, supra. In that case, the defendant, for the purpose of concealing a national bank's
acquisition of its own stock, had the shares held by a
straw man and executed a note to the bank, it being
agreed that the shares were to be held for the bank and
that he was not to be liable on the note. We held as a
'These provisions of subdivision (y) were dropped when § 12 B
was amended by the Banking Act of 1935. 49 Stat. 684. See S.
Rep. No. 1007, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 9.
'Subdivision (y) also gave respondent power to prescribe rules
and regulations for the further examination of such bank. Though
subdivision (y) was revised in 1935, as indicated in note 3, supra,
subdivision (k) (2) of the amended Act gave respondent's examiners
power "to make a thorough examination of all the affairs" of such
banks and in doing so "to administer oaths and to examine and take
and preserve the testimony of any of the officers and agents thereof."
They were directed to make a "full and detailed report of the condition of the bank to the Corporation." 12 U. S. C. § 264 (k) (2).

458.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

matter of federal law, based on the policy of the National
Banking Act to prevent the impairment of a bank's capital resources by prohibiting such acquisitions, that the
defendant could not rely on his own wrongful act to defeat the obligation of the note as against the receiver of
the bank. The defendant's act was itself a violation of
the statute. 309 U. S. p. 198. But the reach of the
rule which prevents an accommodation maker of a note
from setting up the defense of no consideration against
a bank or its receiver or creditors is not delimited to those
instances where he has committed a statutory offense.
As indicated by the cases cited in the Deitrick case (309
U. S. p. 198), an accommodation maker is not allowed
that defense as against the receiver of the bank and its
creditors, or at times even as against the bank itself,
where his act contravenes a general policy to protect the
institution of banking from such secret agreements. In
some of those cases, the accommodation maker was party
to the scheme of deception, in the sense that he had full
knowledge of the intended use of the paper. Putnam
v. Chase, 106 Ore. 440, 212 P. 365; Vallely v. Devaney,
49 N. D. 1107, 194 N. W. 903; Niblack v. Farley, 286 Ill.
536, 122 N. E. 160; Cedar State Bank v. Olson, 116 Kan.
320, 226 P. 995; Bay Parkway Nat. Bank v. Shalom, 270
N. Y. 172, 200 N. E. 685; German-American Finance
Corp. v. Merchants & Mfrs. State Bank, 177 Minn: 529,
225 N. W. 891. In others he had "no positive idea of committing any fraud upon any one." Denny v. Fishter,238
Ky. 127, 129, 36 S. W. 2d 864, 865; Iglehartv. Todd, 203
Ind. 427, 442, 178 N. E. 685; Mount Vernon Trust Co. v.
Bergof], 272 N. Y. 192, 5 N. E. 2d 196. And see Pauly
v. O'Brien, 69 F. 460; Williston on Contracts (Rev. Ed.)
§ 1632. Yet, he has not been allowed to escape liability
on the note as against the receiver even though he was
"very ignorant and ill-informed of the character of the

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

459

Opinion of the Court.

transaction." Rinaldi v. Young, 67App. D. C. 305, 307,
92 F. 2d 229, 231. Indeed, recovery was allowed by the
bank itself in Mount Vernon Trust Co. v. Bergoff, supra,

where the court said (272 N. Y. p. 196, 5 N. E. 2d 197):
"The defendant may not have intended to deceive any
person, but when she executed and delivered to the plaintiff bank an instrument in the form of a note, she was
chargeable with knowledge that, for the accommodation
of the bank, she was aiding the bank to conceal the actual
transaction. Public policy requires that a person who,
for the accommodation of the bank executes an instrument which is in form a binding obligation, should be
estopped from thereafter asserting that simultaneously
the parties agreed that the instrument should not be
enforced."
Furthermore, the fact that creditors may not have been
deceived or specifically injured is irrelevant. As we held
in the Deitrick case (309 U. S. p. 198), it is the "evil tendency" of the acts to contravene the policy governing banking transactions which lies at the root of the rule. See
7 Zollman, Banks & Banking (1936) § 4783.
Those principles are applicable here, because of the federal policy evidenced in this Act to protect respondent, a
federal corporation, from misrepresentations made to induce or influence the action of respondent, including misstatements as to the genuineness or integrity of securities
in the portfolios of banks which it insures or to which it
makes loans. Those principles call for an affirmance of
the judgment below.
Petitioner, at the time it executed the renewal note in
1933, did not know that it was to be used to deceive respondent, as the Act creating respondent was not passed
until later. But the permission which it gave the bank to
carry the note as a real asset was a continuing one and not
revoked. That permission must be presumed to have

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

included authority for the bank to treat the note as genuine
for purposes of examination at the hands of the public
authorities as well as for its general banking activities.
Respondent insured the bank in 1934. The loan was
made in 1938 to satisfy respondent's liability to the depositors of the bank under that insurance agreement.
Respondent was authorized to insure such a bank only on
a certificate from the state authority that the bank was
solvent. We assume that such certificate was given, for
to assume otherwise would be to infer that respondent did
not discharge its statutory duties. The genuineness of assets ostensibly held by a bank is certainly germane to a
determination of solvency. Clearly respondent is a member of the creditor class which the banking authorities were
intended to protect. Plainly one who gives such a note
to a bank with a secret agreement that it will not be enforced must be presumed to know that it will conceal the
truth fiom the vigilant eyes of the bank examiners. If
the bank had wilfully padded the bank's assets with the
spurious note in order to obtain insurance from respondent, there seems no doubt but that § 12 B (s) would have
been violated. Moreover, as we have seen, the inability
of an accommodation maker to plead the defense of no
consideration does not depend on his commission of a
penal offense. The test is whether the note was designed
to deceive the creditors or the public authority, or would
tend to have that effect. It would be sufficient in this type
of case that the maker lent himself to a scheme or arrangement whereby the banking authority on which respondent
relied in insuring the bank was or was likely to be misled.
As we have said, petitioner's authority to the bank to use
this note was a continuing one. The use to which it was
put was not unusual but within the normal scope of banking activities. The fact that the note was charged off by
the bank subsequent to the time when respondent insured

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

461

Opinion of the Court.

the bank and prior to the time when it acquired the note
under the loan is immaterial. A note may be nonetheless
an asset though it is charged off. And respondent is suing
here to protect its rights as an insurer, a relationship with
the bank which was created prior to the time when the
note was charged off. The fact that subsequently respondent learned that the note had been charged off certainly was not notice that the note was spurious. It is
indeed clear that at no time prior to the demand for payment did respondent know that the note was not genuine.
It needs no argument to demonstrate that the integrity
of ostensible assets has a direct relation to solvency. And
it is no more a defense here than it was in the Deitrick
case that no damage was shown to have resulted from the
fraudulent or unlawful act. The federal policy expressed
in the Act, like its counterpart in state law, is not dependent on proof of loss or damage caused by the fraudulent
practice.
Though petitioner was not a participant in this particular transaction and, so far as appears, was ignorant of
it, nevertheless it was responsible for the creation of the
false status of the note in the hands of the bank. It
therefore cannot be heard to assert that the federal policy
to protect respondent against such fraudulent practices
should not bar its defense to the note. Criminal penalties are no more the sole sanctions of the federal policy
expressed in this Act than were the criminal penalties imposed on the agreement in the Deitrick case. If the
secret agreement were allowed as a defense in this case
the maker of the note would be enabled to defeat the
purpose of the statute by taking advantage of an undisclosed and fraudulent arrangement which the statute
condemns and which the maker of the note made possible.
The federal policy under this Act of protecting respondent in its various functions against such arrangements is

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

315 U. S.

no less clear or emphatic than the federal policy of outlawing purchases by a bank of its own stock involved in
the Deitrick case. Cf. Rinaldi v. Young, supra; Federal
Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Woods, 34 F. Supp. 296.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS

did not participate in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER:

The CHIEF JUSTICE and I concur in the result on the
ground that in the circumstances of this case respondent
is entitled to recover, whatever law be deemed controlling. If Illinois law governs, respondent is admittedly
entitled to recover as a holder in due course. If Missouri
law governs, petitioner is estopped to assert the defenses
on which it now relies. Whether the case is governed by
the law of one State or the other, or by "federal common
law" drawn here from one State or the other, the result
is the same.
When the original accommodation notes were executed
in 1926, petitioner fully knew that the whole transaction
was aimed at giving the bank an appearance of assets
where there were none. Petitioner's representative admitted that the bank "suggested that we issue a note to
the Bank," which would enable it "to carry this note and
not show any past due paper." He had been in the investment security business since 1910; he "knew what
the bank meant," and that it was subject to periodic
examinations by the state bank examiner, and he assumed the bank did not want past due paper. On these
facts the trial judge held that petitioner is estopped to
assert absence of consideration as a defense.
Nothing in Missouri statutes or decisions brought to
our notice would warrant us in setting aside this ruling.
A case decided in 1901, Chicago Title & Trust Co. v.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

463

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

Brady, 165 Mo. 197, 65 S. W. 303, might have called for
a different result. There an accommodation maker was
held not estopped to assert absence of consideration as a
defense against the bank's receiver, even though he had
known that the note was part of a scheme to deceive the
state banking authorities by swelling the apparent assets
of the bank. But in 1920 the Missouri Supreme Court
made it clear that the Brady decision can no longer be
taken to represent the law of that state. Such is the
purport of Bank of Slater v. Union Station Bank, 283
Mo. 308, 320, 222 S. W. 993, 996:
"The facts in this case inevitably suggest the question
[of estoppel] we have discussed in this paragraph.
Counsel for respondent, however, have not raised it-being deterred, doubtless, by the decision in Title & Trust
Co. v. Brady, 165 Mo. 197, where a contrary doctrine is
countenanced-and we therefore refrain from ruling upon
the proposition. We have touched upon it, for the reason that if the Brady case, supra, is considered as announcing 'the Missouri rule' upon this topic, as some
commentators have said, that rule is apparently in conflict with numerous and respectable authorities, and its
soundness may admit of question."
No subsequent decision was cited, nor have we found
any, to show that the court has since reverted to the
doctrine of the Brady case. It cannot be said, therefore,
that in holding petitioner estopped the trial judge departed from Missouri law.
There is no federal statute to override either the Missouri law as to estoppel or the Illinois law which treats
respondent as a holder in due course. Were this Court,
in the absence of federal legislation, to make its own
choice of law, compare United States v. Guaranty Trust
Co., 293 U. S. 340; O'Brien v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 113 F. 2d 539; and Hinderliderv. La PlataCo., 304

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

315 U. S.

U. S. 92, decided the same day as Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, Illinois or Missouri law would furnish
the governing principles. See Board of Comm'rs v.
United States, 308 U. S. 343; Royal Indemnity Co. v.
United States, 313 U. S. 289, 296; Just v. Chambers, 312
U. S. 383, 387.
We are unable to find, an estoppel created by federal
statute. Reliance is placed upon Deitrick v. Greaney, 309
U. S. 190. But that case rested on a plain violation of an
explicit provision of a federal statute in, force at the time
of its occurrence. This is not true here. An accommodation note deposited in .a bank before an Act of Congress
is on the books can hardly become a violation of the Act
after it is passed merely because the note remains in the
bank. One cannot violate a statute before it comes into
being. Insofar as the statute may apply to arrangements
whereby the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
might have been misled to its detriment into insuring an
insolvent bank, the record is barren of any indication that
the $5,000 note in question had any relation to the bank's
solvency or to the Corporation's undertaking as an
insurer.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is bringing
this suit as pledgee. As to the note sued upon, it is in no
different position than would be any other pledgee. Indeed, from the business point of view, its position is less
favorable. For it became pledgee only in 1938, three
years after the note had been charged off on the books of
the bank. The Corporation had since 1934 been making
a regular annual examination of the bank's books, which
showed this fact; and the schedule of collateral given to
respondent when it became pledgee made it perfectly clear
that the note had-been charged off.
We are not concerned here with liability based on any
doctrine of "equitable estoppel" evolved as a principle of

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

465

JACKSON, J., concurring.

federal common law having no statutory roots. For we
have put to one side, as unnecessary to the disposition of
this case, the duty of this Court to make law "interstitially" (as Mr. Justice Holmes put it in Southern Pacific
Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 221) in controversies arising
in the federal courts outside their diversity jurisdiction.
Of course the policy expressed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act might be violated, as the National Bank
Act was violated in the Deitrick case, wholly apart from
any question of estoppel or proof of loss to the Corporation. Our difficulty is that the statute cannot be
stretched to fit this case. And it seems unnecessary to
force such a result when a solution according to settled
doctrines is available.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring:
I think we should attempt a more explicit answer to the
question whether federal or state law governs our decision
in this sort of case than is found either in the opinion of
the Court or in the concurring opinion of MR. JusTICE
FRANKFURTER. That question, as old as the federal judiciary, is met inescapably at the threshold of this case.
It is the one which moved us to grant certiorari, and we
could not resort to the rule announced without at least
a tacit answer to it. The petitioner asserts that the decisions in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, and Klaxon
Co. v. Stentor Electric Mfg. Co., 313 U. S. 487, govern
this case. If they do, we would not be free to disregard
the law of Missouri and Illinois and to apply a doctrine of
estoppel actually-but not avowedly--drawn from common-law sources to effectuate the policy we think implicit
in federal statutes.
The Rules of Decision Act ' provides that "the laws of
the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties
1§

34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 28 U. S. C. § 725.

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

315 U. S.

or statutes of the United States shall otherwise require
or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials
at common law, in the courts of the United States, in cases
where they apply." Whether "laws of the several States"
as so used included non-statutory law embodied in judicial
decisions of state courts was long a subject of controversy.
After acting for half a century on the belief that it did, the
Court in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, decided that it did not.
Almost a century later that decision with its numerous
and sorry progeny was overruled, and the Court answered
that it did. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra. It later
held that state decisions on conflicts of laws were also
binding on th federal courts. Klaxon Co. v. Stentor
Mfg. Co., supra. Thus, the Rules of Decision Act as now
interpreted requires fedcral courts to use state law whether
declared by the legislature or by the courts as rules of
decision "in cases where they apply," except where federal law "shall otherwise require or provide." These
recent cases, like Swift v. Tyson which evoked them, dealt
only with the very special problems arising in diversity
cases, where federal jurisdiction exists to provide nonresident parties an optional forum of assured impartiality.2
"'However true the fact may be, that the tribunals of the states will
administer justice as impartially as those of the nation, to parties of
every description, it is not less true, that the constitution itself either
entertains apprehensions on this subject, or views with such indulgence
the possible fears and apprehensions of suitors, that it has established
national tribunals for the decision of controversies between aliens and
a citizen, or between citizens of different states.' Chief Justice Marshall in Bank of the United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch 61, 87. See
also, Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 354; Burgess v. Seligma; 107
U. S. 20, 34; Lankford v. Platte Iron Works, 235 U. S. 461, 478. But
compare Friendly, The Historic Basis of Diversity Jurisdiction, 41
Harvard Law Review 483.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

JACKSON,

467

J., concurring.

The Court has not extended the doctrine of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins beyond diversity cases.'
This case is not entertained by the federal courts because of diversity of citizenship. It is here because a federal agency brings the action, and the law of its being
provides, with exceptions not important here, that: "All
suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity to which
the Corporation shall be a party shall be deemed to arise
under the laws of the United States: . .
That this
."

Its effect even in such cases seems not to have been definitely settled.
In an equity case it was said that '"the doctrine applies though the
question of construction arises not in an action at law, but in a suit in
equity." Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 202, 205. That
case was in the federal courts by reason of diversity jurisdiction. In
a later case in which a suit in equity was brought in federal court
to enforce liability under a federal statute the Court said: "The Rules
of De'cision Act does not apply to suits in equity. Section 34 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, 28 U. S. C. 725, directing that the 'laws of
the several states' 'shall be regarded as rules of decision' in the courts
of the United States, applies only to the rules of decision in 'trials at
common law' in such courts, but applies as well to rules established by
judicial decision in the states as those established by statute ....

In

the circumstances we have no occasion to consider the extent to
which federal courts, in the exercise of the authority conferred upon
them by Congress to administer equitable remedies, are bound to
follow state statutes and decisions affecting those remedies." Russell
v. Todd, 309 U. S. 280, 287, 294. In any event, the estoppel here
involved seems no more an equity matter than the issue of good-faith
purchase involved in Cities Service Oil Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S. 208,
where state law was held to govern.
'Paragraph Fourth of 12 U. S. C. § 264 (j) empowers the Corporation "To sue and be sued; complain and defend, in. any court of law or
equity, State or Federal. All suits of a civil nature at common law
or in equity to which the Corporation shall be a party shall be deemed
to arise under the laws of the United States: Provid6d, That any
such suit to which the Corporation is a party in its capacity as receiver

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

315 U. S.

provision is not merely jurisdictional is suggested by the
presence in the same section of the Act of the separate provision that the Corporation may sue and be sued "in any
court of law or equity, State or Federal." 5
Although by Congressional command this case is to be
deemed one arising under the laws of the United Statis,
no federal statute purports to define the Corporation's
rights as a holder of the note in suit or the liability of the
maker thereof. There arises, therefore, the question
whether in deciding the case we are bound to apply the
law of some particular state or whether, to put it bluntly,
v may make our own law from materials found in common-law sources.
This issue has a long historical background of legal and
political controversy as to the place of the common law
in federal jurisprudence.' As the matter now stands, it
of a State bank and which involves only the rights or obligations
of depositors, creditors, stockholders and such State bank under State

law shall not be deemed to arise under the laws of the United States."
In a number

of respects and with varying degrees of explicitness the
Act elsewhere makes reference to state law. Specific federal criminal
-sanctions are provided.
*A similar provision without more is found in many federal statutes.
E. g., 15 U. S. C. § 604 (Reconstruction Finance Corporation); 12 U. S.
,.§ 24 (National Banki); 12 U. S. C. § 341 (Federal Reserve Banks);
'12 U. S. C. § 1432 (Federal Home Loan Banks); 12 U. S. C. § 1716 (c)
(3) (National Mortgage Associations). This is not to suggest, however, that questions not specifically dealt with in these statutes cannot
be federal questions simply because of the absence of an express
provision that suits "shall be deemed to arise under the laws of the
United States."
Judicial opinions discussing various aspects of the question include:
Wheatoan v. Peters,8 Pet. 591, 658 (1834); Kendall v. United States,
12 Pet. 524, 621 (1838); Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.465, 478 (1888);
Bucher v. Cheshire R. Co., 125 U. S.555, 583-584 (1888); Justice Field,
dissenting in Baltimore & Ohio R.Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S.368, 394-395;

Justices Holmes and Pitney, dissenting in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

469

JACKSON, J., concurring.

seems settled that the federal courts may not resort to
the common law to punish crimes not made punishable
by Act of Congress;' and that, apart from special statutory
or constitutional provision, they are not bound in other
fields by English precedents existing at any particular
date. The federal courts have no general common law,
as in a sense they have no general or comprehensive jurisprudence of any kind, because many subjects of private
law which bulk large in the traditional common law are
ordinarily within the province of the states and not of
the federal government. But this is not to say that
wherever we have occasion to decide a federal question
which cannot be answered from federal statutes alone we
may not resort to all of -he source materials of the common law, or that when we have fashioned an answer it
does not become a part of the federal non-statutory or
common law.
I do not understand Justice Brandeis's statement in
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 at 78, that "There is
no federal general common law," to deny that the common
law may in proper cases be an aid to, or the basis of, de244 U. S. 205, 221-222, 230. See also, George Wharton Pepper, The
Border Land of Federal and State Decisions (1889); Frankfurter, Distribution of Judicial Power between United States and State Courts,

13 Cornell Law Quarterly 499; Warren, New Light on the History of
the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789, 37 Harvard Law Review 49; von
Moschzisker, The Common Law and our Federal Jurisprudence, 74
University of Pennsylvania Law Review 109, 270, 367.

'The research of Charles Warren, leaned on heavily in Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins io discredit Swift v. Tyson, led that scholar to conclude that
United Staes v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, and United States v. Coolidge,
1 Wheat. 415, establishing the above proposition, were probably wrongly

decided. Warren, History of the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789, 37
Harvard Law Review 49, 73. The error, if it be one, comports, however, with the present tendency to constrict the jurisdiction of federal

courts, and I think is'likely to survive.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J.,

concurring.

315 U. S.

cision of federal questions. In its context it means to me
only that federal courts may not apply their own notions
of the common law at variance with applicable state decisions except "where the constitution, treaties, or statutes
of the United States [so] require or provide." 8 Indeed,
in a case decided on the same day as Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, Justice Brandeis said that "whether the water of an
interstate stream must be apportioned between the two
States is a question of 'federal common law' upon which
neither the statutes nor the decisions of either State can
be conclusive." Hinderlider v. La Plata Co., 304 U. S.
92, 110.
Were we bereft of the common law, our federal system
would be impotent. This follows from the recognized
futility of attempting all-complete statutory codes, and
is apparent from the terms of the Constitution itself.
The contract clause, which prombits a state from passing any "Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts," is
an example of the part the common law must play in our
system. This provision is meaningless unless we know
what a contract is. The Constitution wisely refrains
from saying. We have very recently held, upon a long
line of authority, that in applying this clause we are not
bound by the state's views as to whether there is a contract. Irving Trust Co. v. Day, 314 U. S. 556. Take the
case where the question is whether a promise made without consideration comes within the protection of the contract clause. Is there any doubt as to where we must go
for the answer that we do not find in the Constitution
itself? This Court ha not hesitated to read the com'Similarly, Mr. Justice Ho mes's statement that there is no "transcendental body of law outside of any particular State but obligatory
within it unless and until changed by statute" was made with reference
to "matters that are not governed by any law of the United States or
by any statute of the State." See Black & White Taxicab Co. v.
Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518, 533.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

JACKSON,

471

J., concurring.

mon-law doctrine of consideration into the contract
clause, and to restrict the protection of that clause to
promises supported by consideration. Durkee v. Board
of Liquidation, 103 U. S. 646, 648; Pearsall v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646, 667; Grand Lodge v.
New Orleans, 166 U. S. 143, 146. Compare Allegheny
College v. National ChautauquaCounty Bank, 246 N. Y.
369, 159 N.E. 173.
Other recognitions of our common-law powers abound
in the Constitution.'
A federal court sitting in a non-diversity case such as
this does not sit as a local tribunal. In some cases it
may see fit for special reasons to give the law of a particular state highly persuasive or even controlling effect,
but in the last analysis its decision turns upon the lAw
of the United States, not that of any state. Federal law
'Thus, the Judiciary Article provides that "the-Judicial Power shall
extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties" made under their
authority. It does not give any definition of what are cases in law
and equity; it simply assumes the existence of a jurisprudence from
which the courts can ascertain the meaning of those terms.
Particularly in the clauses dealing with the rights of the individual,
the Constitution uses words and phrases borrowed from the common law, meaningless without that background, and obviously meant to
carry their common-law implications. Thus, we find in it the following:
"convicted"; "Indictment"; "Treason, Felony, and Breach of the
Peace"; "Piracies and Felonies"; "Privilege of the Writ of habeas
Corpus"; "Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law"; "Bribery"; 'original Jurisdiction"; and "appellate Jurisdiction both as to Law and
Fact." In the Bill of Rights Amendments, the necessity for resort
to the common law for constitutional interpretation is even more
obvious. Here we find: "unreasonable searches and seizures";
"Warrants"; "presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury"; "due
process of law"; "right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury"; "in Snits at common law"; and "no fact tried by a
jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the United States,
than according to the rules of the common law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

315

U. S.

is no juridical chameleon, changing complexion to match
that of each state wherein lawsuits happen to be commenced because of the accidents of service of process and
of the application of the venue statutes. It is found in
the federal Constitution, statutes, or common law. Federal common law implements the federal Constitution
and statutes, and is conditioned by them."0 Within these
limits, federal courts are free to apply the traditional
common-law technique of decision and to draw upon all
the sources of the common law in cases such as the
present. Board of Commissioners v. United States, 308
U. S. 343, 350.
The law which we apply to this case consists of principles of established credit in jurisprudence, selected by us
because they are appropriate to effectuate the policy of
the governing Act. The Corporation was created and
financed in part by the United States 11 to bolster the
entire banking and credit structure. The Corporation
did not simply step into the private shoes of local banks.
The purposes sought to be accomplished by it can be accomplished only if it may rely on the integrity of banking statements and banking assets. In this case the Corporation attempted to realize on a note that was a part
of the assets at the time it insured the bank. It is met
by the plea that the note was a sham knowingly given
to enable the bank to conceal the worthlessness of certain bonds which it had bought from the maker, a broker.
This deception was not for the single day on which the
note was delivered; its purpose and its effect were to
example, the common-law doctrines of conflict of laws
worked out in a unitary system to deal with conflicts between domes"For

tic and truly foreign law may not apply unmodified in conflicts between the laws of states within our federal system which are affected
by the full faith and credit or other relevant clause of the
Constitution. t
'12 U. S. C. § 264 (d).

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
447

473

JACKSON, J., concurring.

operate as a continuing inducement to existing creditors, and to those who might become creditors, to rely
on this note as a $5,000 item counting towards its solvency. It may not have contemplated the then unborn
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as the particular object of its deception, but its purpose was
to conceal a loss from then unknown and unidentified
persons who might be or become creditors or banking
supervisors on behalf of the public. Under the Act, the
Corporation has a dual relation of creditor or potential
creditor and of supervising authority toward insured
banks. 2 The - immunity of such a corporation from
schemes concocted by the coiperative deceit of bank
officers and customers is not a question to be answered
from considerations of geography. That a particular
state happened to have the greatest connection, in the
conflict of laws sense, with the making of the note involved, or that the subsequent conduct happened to be
chiefly centered there, is not enough to make us subservient to the legislative policy or the judicial views of that
state.'
I concur in the Court's holding because I think that
the defense asserted is nowhere admissible against the
Corporation and that we need not go to the law of any
particular state as our authority for so holding.
I hardly suppose that Congress intended to set us com12 U. S. C. § 264 (i), (k), (1).
Compare Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507;
Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240 U. S. 612; Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co. v. Kelley, 241 U. S. 485; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Boegli, 251 U. S. 315; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Esteve Bros.
& Co., 256 U. S. 566; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Priester,276
U. S.252; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Kuhn, 284 U. S. 44; Local
Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234; Jenkins v. Kurn, 313 U. S. 256;
Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 289; O'Brien v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 113 F. 2d 539.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

315 U. S.

pletely adrift from state law With regard to all questions
as to which it has not provided a statutory answer. An
intention to give persuasive or binding effect to state
law has been found to exist in a number of cases similar
in that they arose under a law of the United States but
were not governed by any specific statutory provision.1
No doubt many questions as to the liability of parties to
commercial paper which comes into the hands of the Corporation will best be solved by applying the local law with
reference to which the makers and the insured bank presumably contracted. The Corporation would succeed
only to the rights which the bank itself acquired where
ordinary and good-faith commercial transactions are involved. But petitioners' conduct here was not intended
to confer any right on the bank itself, for as to it the note
was agreed to be a nullity. Petitioners' conduct was intended to and did have a direct and independent effect on
unknown third parties, among whom the Corporation now
appears." The policy of the federal Act does not seem
1" Campbell

v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610; McClaine v. Rankin, 197
U. S. 154; ChattanoogaFoundry v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390; O'Sullivan
v. Felix, 233 U. S. 318; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 261
U. S. 299; Brown v. United States, 263 U. S. 78; United States v. Guar-"
anty Trust Co., 293 U. S. 340; Board'of Commissioners v. United
States, 308 U. S. 343; Rawlings v. Ray, 312 U. S. 96; Just v. Chambers,
312 U. S. 383.
1
The reasons given by the opinion of Mr. Justice Frankfurter for
declining to apply the doctiine of equitable estoppel seem inadequate.
To insist that the $5,000 note in question does not appear from the
record to have had "any relation to the bank's insolvency or the Corporation's undertaking as insurer" is to part company with the realities
o the period in question, when small banks--and large ones as wellwere operating on perilously narrow margins of solvency, if any. To

hold that the Corporation is to be judged as a mere private pledgee of
a particular piece of paper is to ignore the comprehensive public character of its function. And the wrong to it was sustained when it be-

U. S. v. CAROLINA CARRIERS CORP.
447

475

Syllabus.

tome to leave dependent on local law the question whether
one may plead his own scheme to deceive a bank's creditors
and supervising authorities as against thq Corporation.
Even though federal criminal sanctions might not be applicable to these facts, and even though the doctrine of
Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190, may not fully comprehend the present case, I think we now ipay borrow a
doctrine of estoppel from the same source frbm which the
Court. borrowed it in that case,' and to reach the same
result.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. CAROLINA FREIGHT
CARRIERS CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 197.

Argued January 16, 1942.-Dcided March 2, 1942.

1. Under the "grandfather clause" of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935,
the Interstate Commerce Commission's authorization of operation
as a common carrier by motor vehicle within a specified "territory" may permit service to all points in part of the area and to
designated points in other parts. P. 480.
2. The precise delineation of the area or the specification of localities which may be served is for the Commission; and only where
error is patent may its determination be set aside. P. 480.
came committed to insure the bank-not later when, as a step to working its way out of loss, it took assets already equitably its own as a
pledge and put up money for a plan to continue banking facilities to the
community. To say that the note had been charged off is to stress
the irrelevant. This was, admittedly, long after the Corporation had
become bound as the bank's insurer. It also attributes to the "chargeoff" an unwarranted significance. The clamification of this paper as
inadmissible for a commercial bank would have been justified by its
obvious "slow" character, or may have been due to mere lack of information as to the ability of a nonresident debtor to meet it. It is
no acknowledgment or notice of a legal defect in the paper.

