OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

315 U. S.

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL NO. 1111, UNITED ELECTRICAL, RADIO & MACHINE WORKERS OF
AMERICA, ET AL. v. WISCONSIN EMPLOYMENT

RELATIONS BOARD

ET AL.

. APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 252.

Argued March 2, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. Pursuant to the Wisconsin Employment Peace Act, the Wisconsin
Enployme~t Relations Board, upon findings of fact and conclusions of law in a dispute between an employer and a labor union,
ordered the union, its officers, agents and members to cease and
desist from mass picketing of the employer's factory, threatening
personal injury or property damage to employees desiring to work,
obstructing entrance to and egress from the employer's factory,
obstructing the streets and public roads about the factory, and
picketing the homes of employees. Held, that the order was not
unconstitutional as conflicting with the National Labor Relations
Act. Pp. 745-748.
2. As construed by the state supreme court, which construction is
conclusive here, the Wisconsin Act affects the rights of parties to
proceedings pending before the state board only in the manner and
to the extent prescribed by the board's order. P. 747.
3. An intention of Congress to exclude States from exerting their police
power must be clearly manifested. P. 749.
4. Hines v Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, distinguished. P. 749.
237 Wis. 164, 295 N. W. 791, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment sustaining
an order of the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board.

Messrs. Max E. Geline and Eugene Cotton for appellants. Messrs. Lee Pressman, Joseph Kovner, and Anthony Wayne Smith were with Mr. Geline on the brief.
Messrs. N. S. Boardman, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, and Leo Mann for appellees. Messrs. John E.
Martin, Attorney General, James Ward Rector, Deputy

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD.
740

Opinion of the Court.

Attorney General, and Harold H. Persons, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief with Mr. Boardmanfor
tHe Wisconsin Employment Relations Board. Mr. Louis
Quarles was on the brief with Mr. Mann for the AllenBradley Company.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Solicitor General
Fahy on behalf of the United States, setting forth the
position of the Government on the question whether the
National Labor Relations Act supersedes the Wisconsin
Employment Peace Act; and by Messrs. JosephA. Padway
and I. E. Goldberg on behalf of the Wisconsin State Federation of Labor, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole question presented by this case is whether an
order of the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board,
entered under the Wisconsin Employment Peace Act (L.
1939, ch. 57; Wis. Stat. (1939) ch. 111, pp. 1610-18), is
unconstitutional and void as being repugnant to the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act. 49 Stat. 449;
29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
Sec. 111.06 (2) of the state Act provides in part:
"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employe
individually or in concert with others:
"(a) To coerce or intimidate an employe in the enjoyment of his legal rights, including those guaranteed in
section 111.04,' or to intimidate his family, picket his
Sec. 111.04 provides: "Employes shall have the right of selforganization and the right to form, join or assist labor organizations,
to barlain collectively through representatives of their own choosing,
and to engage in lawful, concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection; and such employes
shall also have the right to refrain from any or all of such activities."
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

domicile, or injure the person or property of such employe
or his family.
"(f) To hinder or prevent, by mass picketing, threats,
intimidation, force or coercion of any kind the pursuit of
any lawful work or employment, or to obstruct or interfere
with entrance to or egress from any place of employment,
or to obstruct or interfere with free and uninterrupted use
of public roads, streets, highways, railways, airports, or
other ways of travel or conveyance."
The state Board is given authority on the filing of a
complaint to conduct hearings, to make findings of fact,
and to issue orders.! § 111.07. Orders of the state Board
are enforceable by the circuit courts. Id. Appellee,
Allen-Bradley Co., is engaged in the manufacturing business in Wisconsin. Appellant union is a labor organization
composed of the employees of that company. The union
had a contract with the company governing terms and conditions of employment. Tl e contfact was cancelled by
the union. Thereafter the union, by secret ballot, ordered
a strike, which was called on May 11, 1939. The strike
lasted about three months, during which time the company continued to operate its plant. Differences arose
between the employees who were on strike and the company and those employees who continued to work. The
company thereupon filed a petition with the state Board,
charging the union and certain of its officers and members
Sec. 111.07 (4) provides in part: "Final orders may dismiss the
charges or require the person complained of to cease and desist from
the unfair labor practices found to have been committed, suspend his
rights, immunities, privileges or remedies granted or afforded by this
chapter for not more than one year, and require him to take such
affirmative action, including reinstatement of employes with or without pay, as the board may deem proper. Any order may further
require such person to make reports from time to time showing the
extent to which it has complied with the order."

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD.
740

Opinion of the Court.

with unfair labor practices. The union answered and
objected, inter alia, to the jurisdiction of the state Board,
on the ground that as respects the matters in controversy
the company was subject exclusively to the provisions of
the National Labor Relations Act and to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the federal Board. The state Board made
findings of fact and entered an order against the union
and its officers and members. On a petition for review,
the circuit court sustained and enforced the Board's order.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed that judgment.
237 Wis. 164, 295.N. W. 791. The case is here on appeal.
Judicial Code, § 237 (a); 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
The findings and order of the state Board as summarized
by the Supreme Court (237 Wis. pp. 168-170) are as
follows:
"Briefly, from the findings the following facts appear:
"(a) Appellants engaged in mass picketing at all
entrances to the premises of the company for the purpose
of hindering and preventing the pursuit of lawful work
and employment by employees who desired to work.
"(b) They obstrudted and interfered with the entrance
to and egress from the factory and obstructed and interfered with the free and uninterrupted use of the streets
and sidewalks surrounding the factory.
"(c) They threatened bodily injury and property damage to many of the employees who desired to continue
their employment.
"(d) They required of persons desiring to enter the
factory, to first Obtain passes from the union. Persons
holding such passes were admitted without interference.
"(e) They picketed the homes of employees who continued in the employment of the company.
"(f) That the union by its officers and many of its
members injured the persons and property of employees
who desired to continue their employment. "(g) That the fourteen individual appellants who were
striking employees, had engaged in various acts of mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

conduct. The facts relating to those were found
specifically. *The acts consisted of intimidating and preventing employees from pursuing their work by threats,
coercion, and assault; by damaging property of employees
who continued to work; and as to one of them by carrying
concrete rocks which he intended to use to intimidate
employees who desired to work.
"Based upon these findings the board found as conclusions of law, that the union was guilty of unfair labor
practices in the following respects:
"(a) Mass picketing for the purpose of hindering and
preventing the pursuit of lawful work.
"(b) Threatening employees desiring to work with
bodily injury and injury to their property.
"(c) Obstructing and interfering with entrance to and
egress from the factory.
"(d) Obstructing and interfering with the free and uninterrupted use of the streets and public roads surrounding
the factory.
"(e) Picketing the homes of employees.
"As to the fourteen individual appellants, the board
concluded that -each of them was guilty of unfair labor
practices by reason of threats, assaults, and other misdemeanors committed by them as set out in the findings
of fact.
"Based upon its findings of fact and conclusions of law
the board ordered that the union, its officers, agents, and
members"(1) Cease and desist from:
(a) Mass picketing.
(b) Threatening employees.
(c) Obstructing or interfering with the factory
entrances.
(d) Obstructing or interfering with the free use
of public streets, roads, and sidewalks.
(e) Picketing the domiciles of employees.
"The order required the union to post notices at its
headquarters that it had ceased and desisted in the manner
aforesaid and to notify the board in writing of steps taken
to comply with the order.

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD.
740

Opinion of the Court.

"As to the fourteen individual appellants, the order
made no determination based upon the finding that they
were individually guilty of unfair labor practices."
It was admitted that the company was subject to the
National Labor Relations Act. The federal Board, however, had not undertaken in this case to exercise the jurisdiction which that Act conferred on it. Accordingly, the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin upheld the order of the state
Board, stating that "there can be no conflict between the
acts until they are applied to the same labor dispute." It
was urged before that court, as it has been here, that there
was nevertheless a conflict between that part of the findings of the state Board which deals with the individual
appellants and the National Labor Relations Act. The
contention is that the individual appellants who were
found guilty of unfair labor practices, as defined in the
state Act, are, under the terms of the federal Act, still employees of the company,8 while under the state Act that
relationship is severed.' As to that alleged conflict, the
Wisconsin Supreme ,Court made two answers: First, the
federal Act had not been applied to this labor dispute.
Second, it is the order, not the findings, of the state Board
which affects the employer and employee relationship.
Since there was no provision in the order which suspended
the status as employees of the fourteen individual appel'See Republic Steel Corp. v. Labor Board, 107 F. 2d 472, 479 (af'd
311 U. S. 7) ; Labor Board v. Stackpole Carbon Co., 105 F. 2d 167, 176;
Hart & Prichard, The Fansteel Case: Employee Misconduct and the
Remedial Powers of the National Labor Relations Board, 52 Harv. L.
Rev. 1275.
"Sec. 111.02 (3) defines the term "employe" as including "any individual whose work has ceased solely as a consequence of or in connection with any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor
practice on the part of an employer and .

.

. (b) who has not been

found to have committed or to have been a party to any unfair labor
practice hereunder, . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

lants who were found guilty of unfair labor practices, there
was no conflict as to their employee status under the state
and federal Acts.
Various views have been advanced here. On the one
hand, it is urged that, in this situation, as in the case of
federal control over intrastate transportation rates
(Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 357; Board of Railroad
Comm'rs v.. Great Northern Ry. Co., 281 U. S. 412, 424,
426-428), state action should not be foreclosed in absence
of a finding by the federal Board under § 10 (a) that an employer's labor practice so affects interstate commerce (Labor Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601) that it should be
prevented. On the other hand, it is earnestly contended
that the state Act, viewed as a whole, so undermines rights
protected and granted by the federal Act and is so hostile
to the policy of the federal Act that it should not be allowed to survive. Acceptance of the latter theory would
necessitate a reversal of the judgment below. Acceptance
of the former would mean that in all cases orders of the
state Board would be upheld if the federal Board had not
assumed jurisdiction.
We deal, however, not with the theoretical disputes
but with concrete and specific issues raised by actual
cases. Associated Press v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 103,
132; United States v. Appalachian Power Co., 311 U. S.
377, 423, and cases cited. "Constitutional questions are
not to be dealt with abstractly." Bandini Petroleum Co.
v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8, 22; Arizona v. California,
283 U. S. 423, 464. They will not be anticipated but will
be dealt With only as they are appropriately raised upon
a record before us. Tennessee Publishing Co. v. American National Bank, 299 U. S. 18, 22. Nor will we assume in advance that a State will so construe its law as
to bring it into conflict with the federal Constitution or
an act of Congress. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washing-

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD..
710

747

Opinion of the Court.

ton, 243 U. S. 219, 246; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co.
v. Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412, 429-430; Watson v. Buck,
313 U. S. 387. Hence we confine our discussion to the
precise facts of this case and intimate no opinion as to
the validity of other types of orders in cases where the
federal Board has not assumed jurisdiction.
We are not under the necessity of treating the state
Act as an inseparable whole. Cf. Watson v. Buck, supra.
Rather, we must read the state Act, for purposes of the
present case, as though it contained only those provisions
which authorize tl~e state Board to enter orders of the
specific type here involved. That Act contains a broad
severability clause.'
The Wisconsin Supreme Court
seems to have been liberal in interpreting such clauses
so as to separate valid from void provisions of statutes.'
Aside from that, Wisconsin in this case has in fact applied only a few of the many provisions of its Act to
appellants. And we have the word of the Wisconsin
Supreme Court that "the act affects the rights of parties
to a controversy pending before the board only in the
manner and to the extent prescribed by the order." 237
Wis: p. 183. That construction is conclusive here. Senn
v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468, 477; Minnesota v.
Probate Court, 309 U. S. 270, 273, and cases cited.
Hence we need not speculate as to whether the portions
of the statute on which the order rests are so intertwined
'Sec. 111.18 provides: "If any provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be
held invalid the remainder of this chapter or the application of such
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which
it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby."
'See State v. Tuttle, 53 Wis. 45, 9 N. W. 791; State v. Ballard,
158 Wis. 251, 148 N. W. 1090; State v. Board of State Canvassers,
159 Wis. 216, 150 N. W. 542; State v. Lange Canning Co., 164
Wis. 228, 157 N. W. 777, 160 N. W. 57; State v. Marriott, 237 Wis.
607, 296 N. W. 622.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

with the others that the various provisions of the state
Act must be considered as inseparable. Since Wisconsin
has enforced an order based only on one part of the Act,
we must consider that portion exactly as Wisconsin has
treated it-"complete in itself and capable of standing
alone." Watson v. Buck, supra, p. 397. Viewed in that
light, no conflict with the National Labor Relations Act
exists.
The only employee or union conduct and activity forbidden by the state Board in this case was mass picketing,
threatening employees desiring to work with physical injury or property damage, obstructing entrance to and
egress from the company's factory, obstructing the streets
and public roads surrounding the factory, and picketing
the homes of employees. So far as the fourteen individuals are concerned, their status as employees of the company was not affected.
We agree with the statement of the United States as
amicus curiae that the federal Act was not designed to
preclude a State from enacting legislation limited to the
prohibition or regulation of this type of employee or union
activity. The Committee Reports7 on the federal Act
plainly indicate that it is not "a mere police court meas7 S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 16:
"Nor can the committee sanction the suggestion that the bill should prohibit fraud or
violence by employees or labor unions. The bill is not a mere police
court measure. The remedies against such acts in the State and Federal courts and by the invocation of local police authorities are now adequate, as arrests and labor injunctions in industrial disputes throughout the country will attest. The Norris-LaGuardia Act does not deny
to employers relief in the Federal courts against fraud, violence or
threats of violence. See 29 U. S. C. § 104 (e) and (i)." And see H.
Rep. No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 16-17; Report of the National
Labor Relations Board, Hearings before the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 1000, S. 1264, S. 1392,
S. 1550, S. 1580, and S. 2123, Part 3, p. 521.

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD.
740

Opinion of the Court.

ure" and that authority of the several States may be exerted to control such conduct. Furthermore, this Court
has long insisted that an "intention of Congress to exclude
States from exerting their police power must, be clearly
manifested." Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 272
U. S. 605, 611, and cases cited; Kelly v. Washington, 302
U. S. 1, 10; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell
Bros., 303 U. S. 177; H. P. Welch Co. v. New Hampshire,
306 U. S. 79, 85; Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598, 614;
Watson v. Buck, supra. Congress has not made such employee and union conduct as is involved in this case subject to regulation by the federal Board. Nor are we faced
here with the precise problem with which we were confronted in Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52. In the
Hines case, a federal system of alien registration was held
to supersede a state system of registration. But there we
were dealing with a problem which had an impact on'the
general field of foreign relations. The delicacy of the issues which were posed alone raised grave questions as to
the propriety of allowing a state system of regulation to
function alongside of a federal system. In that field, any
"concurrent state power that may exist is restricted to the
narrowest of limits." p. 68. Therefore, we were- more
ready to conclude that a federal Act in a field that touched
international relations superseded state regulation than we
were in those cases where a State was exercising its historic powers over such traditionally local matters as public
safety and order and the use of streets and highways.
Maurer v. Hamilton,'.supra, and cases cited. Here, we
are dealing with the latter type of problem. We will not
lightly infer that Congress by the mere passage of a federal Act has impaired the traditional sovereignty of the
several States in that regard.
Furthermore, in the Hines case the federal system of
alien registration was a "single integrated and all-

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

etubracing" one, p. 74. Here, as we have seen, Congress
designedly left open an area for state control. Nor can
we say that the control which Congress has asserted over
the subject matter of labor disputes is so pervasive (Cf.
Cloverleaf Butter Co. v. Patterson, ante, p. 148) as to
prevent Wisconsin, under the familiar rule of Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 250 U. S. 566, 569,
from supplementing federal regulation in the manner of
'this order. See. 7 of the federal Act guarantees labor its
"fundamental right" (Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., 301 U S.1, 33) to self-organization and collective' bargaining. Sec. 8 affords employees protection
against unfair labor practices of employers including employer interference with the rights secured by § 7. Sec.
9 affords machinery for providing appropriate collective
bargaining units. And § 10 grants the federal Board
"exclusive" power of enforcement. It is not sufficient,
however, to show that the state Act might be so construed
and applied as to dilute, impair, or defeat those rights.
Watson v. Buck, supra. Nor is the unconstitutionality of
the provisions of the state Act which underlie the present
order established by a showing that other parts of the
statute are incompatible with and hostile to the policy
expressed in the federal Act. Since Wisconsin has applied
to appellants only parts of the state Act, the conflict with
the policy or mandate of the federal Act must be found in
those parts. But, as we have said, the federal Act does
not govern employee or union activity of the type here
enjoined. And we fail to see how the inability to utilize
mass picketing, threats, violence, and the other devices
which were here employed impairs, dilutes, qualifies or in
any respect subtracts from any of the rights guaranteed
and protected by the federal Act. Nor is the freedom to
engage in such conduct shown to be so essential or intimately related to a realization of the guarantees of the
federal Act that its denial is an impairment of the federal

ALLEN-BRADLEY LOCAL v. BOARD.
740

Opinion of the Court.

policy. If the order of the state Board affected the status
of the employees, or if it caused a forfeiture of collective
bargaining rights, a distinctly different question would
arise. But since no such right-is affected, we conclude that
this case is not basically different from the common situation where a State takes steps to prevent breaches of the
peace in connection with labor disputes. Since the state
system of regulation, as construed and applied here, can
be reconciled with the federal Act and since the two as
focused in this case can consistently stand together, the
order of the state Board must be sustained under the rule
which has long obtained in this Court. See Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243.
In sum, we cannot say that the mere enactment of the
National Labor Relations Act, without more, excluded
state regulation of the type which Wisconsin has exercised
in this case. It has not been shown that any employee
was deprived of rights protected or granted by the federal
Act or that the status of any of them under the federal
Act was impaired. Indeed, if the portions of the state Act
here invoked are invalid because they conflict with the
federal Act, then so long as the federal Act is on the books
it is difficult to see how any State could under any circumstances regulate picketing or disorder growing out of labor
disputes of companies whose business affects interstate
commerce.
We rest our decision on the narrow grounds indicated.
We have here no question as to constitutional limitations
on state control of picketing under the rule of Thornhill's case, 310 U. S. 88. Nor are any other constitutional
questions concerning the Wisconsin Act properly presented. And in view of our dispositi6n of the case we find
it unnecessary to pass on other questions raised by the
appellees.
Affirmed.

