POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
Syllabus.

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE CO.

ET AL. v.
ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THU
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 265. Argued February 10, 11, 1942.-Decided March 16, 1942.
1. Provisions of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, for regulating the prices
at which natural gas originating in one State and transported to
another shall be sold to distributors at wholesale, held consistent with
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, and within the
commerce power. P. 582.
2. Under §§ 5 (a) and 16 of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Federal Power Commission, when upon due hearing it has found the
existing rates of an interstate gas pipeline company to be unjust and
unreasonable, may make an interim order requiring the utility to
file a new schedule of rates which shall effect a prescribed decrease
in operating revenues. P. 583.
3. The Natural Gas Act of 1938 commands that the rates of natural
gas companies subject to it shall be just and reasonable; declares that
rates which are not just and reasonable are unlawful; provides that
the Federal Power Commission shall determine the just and reasonable rate to be observed and fix the same by order and that the Commission may order a decrease where existing rates .are unjust,
unlawful, or are not the "lowest reasonable rates." §§ 4 (a) and
5 (a). On review of the Commission's orders by a Circuit Court
of Appeals, as authorized by § 19 (b), the Commission's findings of
fact, if supported by substantial evidence, "shall be conclusive."
Held:
(1) "Lowest reasonable rate" is the lowest rate which may be
fixed without being confiscatory in the constitutional sense. P. 585.
(2) The Congressional standard prescribed by this statute coincides with that of the Constitution; and the courts are without
authority under the statute to set aside as too low any "reasonable rate" adopted by the Commission which is consistent with
constitutional requirements. P. 586.
4. Rate-making bodies are not required by the Constitution to follow
any single formula or combination of formulas. Once a full hearing
with No. 268, Natural Gas Pipeline Co. et al. v. Federal Power Commission et al., also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S.
593, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
*Together

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

has been given, proper findings made and the statutory requirements
satisfied, the courts cannot intervene in the absence of a clear showing that the limits of due process have been overstepped. If the
Commission's order, as applied and viewed in its entirety, produces
no arbitrary result, the Court's inquiry is at an end. P. 586.
5. There is no constitutional requirement that going-concern value,
even when it is an appropriate 'element to be included in-a rate
base, must be separately stated and appraised as such. Pp. 586-589.
6. Where a valuation for rate purposes is of the business as a whole
without separate appraisal of the going-concern element, the burden
rests on the regulated utility to show that this item has not been
included in the rate base, and that it was not recouped from prior
earnings of the business. P. 589.
7. The property of a utility is not confiscated by denial of the privilege
of capitalizing the maintenance cost of excess plant capacity during
a period before the rates were regulated, which would allow it to
earn a return and amortization allowance upon such costs during
the entire subsequent life of the business. P. 590.
8. Regulation does not insure that the business shall produce net
revenues, nor does the Constitution require that the losses of the
business in one year shall be restored from future earnings by the
device of capitalizing the losses and adding them to the rate base
on which a fair return and depreciation allowance are to be earned.
P. 590.

9. Denial of the right to earn for the future a "fair return" and amortization on the costs of maintaining initial excess capacity, and of
advertising and acquiring new business, which they failed to show
had not been 'recouped from earnings, did not deprive the utilities
concerned in this case of their property. P. 590.
10. Where the business the rates of which are regulated could exist for
only a limited period, an amortization base computed at cost and
including property already retired, the allowances on which would
restore the undepreciated capital investment, less salvage, at the
end of that period, involved no deprivation of property, even though
during the period the cost of reproducing the property might be
more than its actual cost. The Constitution does not require that
the owner who embarks in a wasting-asset business of limited life
shall receive at the end more than he has put into it. P. 592.
11. In the case of a wasting business the rates of which were first
regulated after it had operated for a number of years, held proper,
and consistent with due process, in determining its fair return, to
adopt as the amortization period the entire estimated life of the

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

577

Counsel for Parties.

business, including the period of earlier operation, and to require
that there be credited in the amortization account so much of the
earnings of that period as would be appropriately allocable to it.
P. 592.
12. A provision for annual amortization allowances which, if accumulated at a 6/2% compound interest rate during the estimated life
of the business, will be sufficient to restore the total investment less
salvage, and which leaves the allowances in the business as a sinking fund reserve but permits the utility to earn each year in addition to the allowance, 61/2% on both the amortized and unamortized
portions of the rate base-held not objectionable upon the ground
that the rate of interest used should have been lower-comparable
to that obtainable if the allowances were to be invested in securities
in a separate sinking fund---or upon the ground that the arrangement adopted subjects the utility to greater business risks. P. 595.
13. The Federal Power Commission's finding that 61/2% is a fair
annual rate of return upon the rate base allowed in this case is
supported by substantial evidence. P. 596.
14. The question of proper disposition of the excess charges impounded
under a stay order of the court below is not presented for determination upon the record before this Court. P. 598.
120 F. 2d 625, reversed.
CERTioRARI,

314 U. S. 593, to review a judgment va-

cating an order of the Federal Power Commission, on a
petition to review, under § 19 (b) of the Natural Gas Act
of 1938.
Messrs. George I. Haight and S. A. L. Morgan, with
whom Messrs. J. J. Hedrick and William E. Lucas were on
the brief, for the Natural Gas Pipeline Co. et al.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth and Solicitor General Fahy
for the Federal Power Commission, and Mr. Albert E.
Hallett, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, for the
Illinois Commerce Commission. Assistant Attorney General Shea and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel, Harry R. Booth,
Archibald Cox, Richard J. Connor, George Slaff, and
George F. Barrett,Attorney General of Illinois, were with
them on the brief.

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Mr. John E. Benton filed a brief on behalf of the National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners, as amicus curiae, in support of the Federal Power
Commission.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a rate case involving numerous questions which
arise out of the Federal Power Commission's regulation,
under §§ 5 (a) and 13 of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, 52
Stat. 821, 15 U. S. C. § 717, of the rates to be charged for
the sale of natural gas by cross-petitioners, Natural Gas
Pipeline Company of America and Texoma Natural Gas
Company.
The two companies are engaged in business as a single
enterprise. They produce natural gas from their own
reserves in the Panhandle gas fields in Texas, and purchase
gas produced there by others. They transport the gas
by their own pipeline in interstate commerce to Illinois,
where they sell the bulk of it at wholesale to utilities,
which distribute and sell it for domestic, commercial and
industrial uses.
The companies began operations in 1932 with a capital
structure of $60,000,000 of six per cent bonds, later increased by $999,000, and $3,500,000 of common stock, of
which $500,000 is stock of the Texoma Company, a nonprofit corporation paying no dividends on its stock. During the first seven years of operation, beginning January 1,
1932, and extending through 1938, the companies charged
against gross income various depreciation and depletion
deductions aggregating $13,077,488,1 and in addition
'These charges against income are slightly in excess of the accumulated reserves for depreciation and depletion-$12,557,892---shown
by the books at the end of 1938. The excess of $519,596 is apparently due to the fact that during the period $7,000,918 of property, on

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

charged $6,481,322 for "retirements" of property. In
that period they paid dividends amounting in all to
$9,150,000. Although there were book deficits in earnings
for the first two years, the total "net profit" available for
dividends and surplus after payment of interest on the
bonds was $8,224,436,2 or an annual average of $1,174,919,
which is 33.6% per annum on the $3,500,000 stock. The
earnings available during the period for return on the
capital investment of both stockholders and bondholders-after taking out of income $19,558,810 for depreciation, depletion and retirements-totalled $34,040,883; this
makes an average of $4,862,983 annually, which is about
8% on the book figures for investment undepreciated, or
8.8% after deducting from investment the average depreciation and depletion reserves actually charged to earnings by the companies.3 At the time of the hearing, over
one-fourth of the bonds issued had been retired out of
earnings.
On complaint of the Illinois Commerce Commission,
and on its own motion, the Power Commission began
separate investigations of the companies' rates. These
proceedings were consolidated and after extensive hearings the Commission, for the purpose of issuing an interini order, accepted the companies' statement that the
book cost of their property existing at the end of 1938
was $60,172,843, including working capital of $975,000.
the basis of book cost, was retired, while the annual retirement charges
had aggregated only $6,481,322. The balance of the retirements,
$519,596, apparently had been charged to the depreciation and depletion accounts.
'This includes a negligible item, "non-operating income," which for

the seven-year period came to only $194,600.
"The book figures (which are on a cost basis) for invested capital
average slightly under $61,000,000 if working capital is included. The
depreciation and depletion reserves are taken from the accounts for
which the aggregate figure, $12,557,892, is given in note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Likewise for the purpose of the order, it accepted the
companies' estimate that the value of all physical property--calculated at reproduction cost new (except for
gas reserves taken on the companies' statement to have
a present value of $13,334,775)-was $74,420,424, which
the. Commission adopted as the rate base. It took the
companies' own estimate of twenty-three years ending
in 1954 as the life of the business, and for the amortization base used their cost figure of $78,284,009 for the
total past and estimated future investment after deduction of estimated salvage. It calculated the "annual
amortization expense" on that amount for the twentythree year period, at a 61/2% sinking fund interest rate,
as $1,557,852, which it allowed.
The Commission also accepted, for the purpose of its
interim order, the companies' estimate of prospective
income available for amortization and return for the
period 1939 to 1942 inclusive, as averaging $9,511,454
per annum. But making allowance for higher income
tax rates under the Revenue Act of 1940, it found that
the income available for amortization and return would
be decreased to $9,362,032. It concluded that the companies' estimate of return, less the amortization allowance, ($9,362,032 less $1,557,852),-or $7,804,180-exceeded the fair return, $4,837,328 (which is 61 2% of the
rate base of $74,420,424), by $2,966,852, which amount
was available for reduction of net revenues. Taking into
account the decrease of $783,909 in federal income taxes
which would result from such a decline in revenues, the
Commission decided there was a total of $3,750,000 annually available for reduction of rates. It found the
existing rates were "unjust, unreasonable and excessive,"
and made its interim order directing the companies to
file a new schedule of rates and charges effective after
September 1, 1940, which would bring about an annual
reduction of $3,750,000 in operating revenues. The

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

order also provided that the record should "remain open"
for such further proceedings as the Commission may
deem necessary or desirable.
On the companies' petition for review of the order pursuant to § 19 (b) of the Act, the Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, 120 F. 2d 625, upheld the validity
of the rate regulation provisions of the Act, and the Commission's authority under the statute to issue the interim
order directing reduction of the rates and requiring
respondents to file new schedules reflecting that reduction. But the court vacated the Commission's order on
the sole grounds that "going concern value" to the extent
of $8,500,000 should have been included in the rate base,
and that the amortization period for the entire property,
instead of the full twenty-three year estimated life of the
business taken by the Commission, should have been
dated from the passage of the Act or the time of the Commission's order.
We granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 593, because of the
novelty and importance of the questions presented upon
the Commission's petition challenging the grounds of
reversal below, and on the companies' cross petition assailing the constitutionality of the Act, the authority of
the Commission to make the interim order, the prescribed 61/2% return, the computation of the amortization allowance on the same rate of interest as the fair
rate of return, and other features of the Commission's
order presently to be discussed.
The Natural Gas Act declares that "the business of
transporting and selling natural gas for ultimate distribution to the public is affected with a public interest," and
that federal regulation of interstate commerce in natural
gas "is necessary in the public interest." § 1 (a). The
Act directs that all rates and charges in connection with
the transportation or sale of natural gas, subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be "just and rea-

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

sonable" and declares to be unlawful any rate or charge
which is not just and reasonable. § 4 (a). By § 5 the
Commission, on its own motion or the complaint of a
State, municipality, state commission or gas distributing company, is empowered to investigate the rates
charged by any natural gas company in connection with
any transportation or sale of any natural gas subject to
the jurisdiction of the Commission, and after a hearing
to determine just and reasonable rates.
Constitutionalityof the Act. The argument that the
provisions of the statute applied in this case are unconstitutional on their face is without merit. The sale of
natural gas originating in one State and its transportation and delivery to distributors in any other State constitutes interstate commerce, which is subject to regulation
by Congress. Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498. It is no objection
to the exercise of the power of Congress that it is attended by the same incidents which attend the exercise
of the police power of a State. The authority of Congress to regulate the prices of commodities in interstate
commerce is at least as great under the Fifth Amendment as is that of the States under the Fourteenth to regulate the prices of commodities in intrastate commerce.
Compare United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304
U. S. 144; United States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S.
533, 569; Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381,
393-97; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, with
Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.502; Olsen v. Nebraska,
313 U. S. 236.
The price of gas distributed through pipelines for pubI'c consumption has been too long and consistently recognized as a proper subject of regulation under the
Fourteenth Amendment to admit of doubts concerning
the propriety of i&regulations under the Fifth. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Cedar Rapid8

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655; Railroad Commission v. Pacific Gas Co., 302 U. S. 388. And the fact
that the distribution here involved is by wholesale rather
than retail sales presents no differences of significance
to the protection of the public interest which is the object of price regulation. Cf. Illinois Natural Gas Co. v.
Central Illinois Public Service Co., supra. The business of cross-petitioners is not any the less subject to regulation now because the Government has not seen fit to
regulate it in the past. Cf. Nebbia v. New York, supra,
538-39.
Validity of the Interim Order. The companies contend that the Federal Power Commission has no authority
under the Act to enter the type of order now under review, and that the order is invalid because the Commission did not itself fix reasonable rates as required by
the Act but instead merely directed the companies to
file a new rate schedule which would result in the prescribed reduction in operating revenues. Section 5 (a)
of the Act provides: "Whenever the Commission, after
a hearing

. .. ,

shall find that any rate . . . is injust,

unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential, the
Commission shall determine the just and reasonable rate
. . . and shall fix the same by order." It also contains
a proviso that the Commission shall not have power to
order an increase of rates on file unless in accordance
with a new schedule filed by the company. But without mention of new rate schedules the proviso adds that
the Commission "may order a decrease where existing
rates are unjust . . . or are not the lowest reasonable

rates."

And § 16 gives the Commission "power to . . .

issue . . . such orders ...

as it may find necessary or

appropriate to carry out the provisions of this Act."
The first prerequisite to an order by the Commission
is that it shall be preceded by a hearing and findings.
In this case, while the proceedings were not ended by the

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

interim order, the companies had full opportunity to
offer all their evidence both direct and in rebuttal, and full
opportunity to cross-examine every witness offered by
both the Federal Power Commission and the Illinois Commerce Commission. All the evidence tendered was received and considered by the Commission, and before
the interim order was entered counsel for the companies
stated to the Commission that they had concluded the
direct testimony in support of their case. So far as the
order is supported by the evidence-, the companies cannot complain that they were denied a full hearing because they had not been able to examine on redirect
their own witnesses who had not been cross-examined
or because they had no opportunity to cross-examine or
rebut witnesses who were not offered by the Commission. The right to a full hearing before any tribunal
does not include the right to challenge or rely on evidence not offered or considered. See New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 201.
The establishment of a rate for a regulated industry
often involves two steps of different character, one of
which may appropriately precede the other. The first
is the adjustment of the general revenue level to the
demands of a fair return. The second is the adjustment
of a rate schedule conforming to that level so as to eliminate discriminations and unfairness from its details.
Such an orderly procedure for establishing the rates prescribed by the Act would seem to be an appropriate
means of carrying out its provisions. Section 5 of the
Act was modelled on the provisions of the Transportation Act, 49 U. S. C. §§ 13, 15, which have been interpreted as giving to the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to establish a general level of rates and
divisions in advance of a schedule to be filed by the
carriers. See New England Divisions Case, supra, 201202,203, n. 21. Cf. Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

Commission, vol. 2, pp. 381-82; Driscoll v. Edison Co.,
307 U. S. 104.
We think that the proviso of § 5, already quoted, contemplates that, when existing rates are found to be unjust
and unreasonable, an order decreasing revenues may be
filed without establishing a specific schedule of rates.
Since such an order may be in the interests of the public, as
well as the regulated company, and is in harmony with
the purposes of the Act, it is one which the Commission
has discretion to make under § 16 ,as appropriate to
carry out the provisions of the Act.
The Scope of JudicialReview of Rates Prescribedby the
Commission. The ultimate question for our decision is
whether the rate prescribed by the Commission is too low.
The statute declares, § 4 (a), that the rates of natural gas
companies subject to the Act "shall be just and reasonable,
and any such rate or charge that is not just and reasonable
is hereby declared to be unlawful." Section 5 (a) directs
the Commission to "determine the just and reasonable
rate" to be observed, and requires the Commission to "fix
the same by order." It also provides that "the Commission may order a decrease where existing rates are unjust . . . unlawful, or are not the lowest reasonable rates."
On review of the Commission's orders by a Circuit Court
of Appeals as authorized by § 19 (b), the Commission's
findings of fact "if supported by substantial evidefice,
shall be conclusive."
By long standing usage in the field of rate regulation,
the "lowest reasonable rate" is one which is not confiscatory in the constitutional sense. Los Angeles Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 305; Railroad Commission v. Pacific Gas Co., supra, 394, 395; Denver Stock
Yard Co. v. United States, .304 1T. S. 470, 475. Assuming that there is a zone of reasonableness within which
the Commission is free to fix a rate varying in amount
and higher than a confiscatory rate, see Banton v. Belt

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Line Ry. Corp., 268 U. S. 413, 422, 423; Columbus Gas
Co. v. Commission, 292 U. S. 398, 414; Denver Stock
Yard Co. v. United States, supra, 483, the Commission
is also free under § 5 (a) to decrease any rate which is
not the "lowest reasonable rate." It follows that the
Congressional standard prescribed by this statute coincides with that of the Constitution, and that the courts
are without authority under the statute to set aside as too
low any "reasonable rate" adopted by the Commission
which is consistent with constitutional requirements.
The Constitution does not bind rate-making bodies to
the service of any single formula or combination of formulas. Agencies to whom this legislative power has
been delegated are free, within the ambit of their statutory authority, to make the pragmatic adjustments which
may be called for by particular circumstances. Once a
fair hearing has been given, proper findings made and
other statutory requirements satisfied, the courts cannot
intervene in the absence of a clear showing that the limits
of due process have been overstepped. If the Commission's order, as applied to the facts before it and viewed
in its entirety, produces no arbitrary result, our inquiry
is at an end.
Going Concern Value. The companies insist that their
business has a going concern value of $8,500,000, which the
Cofmmission did not include in the rate base and on which
they are entitled to earn a return. In establishing the rate
base for the purposes of the interim order the Commission
"reluctantly" accepted the estimates of value, presented by
the companies' own witnesses, as follows:
Reproduction Cost New of Physical Properties (exclusive of Gas Reserves) ...... $56, 302, 250'
Value of Gas Reserves as of June 1, 1939.. 13,334,.775
' The estimates submitted by the companies stated that there should
be deducted from this figure for "viewed depreciation" $2,866,758.
However, in betting a rate base for the interim order, the Commission

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

Capital Additions from June 1, 1939, to December 31, 1942 ......................
Working Capital ......................
Total Rate Base .................

$3,808, 399'
975, 000
$74, 420,424

While no item for going concern value is separately stated
in the rate base, the computation of cost new of physical
equipment included-in addition to labor and cost of materials--large amounts for overhead, interest, taxes, administration, legal and supervisory charges, and expenses
paid or incurred in assembling the plant as that of a going
concern.
The Commission spoke of the rate base thus arrived at as
"liberal" and as a "generous allowance." That the estimate of reproduction costs new is liberal is indicated by
the circumstances that the companies' structures other
than gas reserves were built in 1930-1931 at a time, as the
record shows, of relatively high prices, and that their reproduction cost depreciated is greater than actual cost,
which was about $50,000,000. And the allowed "present
value" of leases as of June 1, 1939, $13,334,775, is approximately $4,000,000 more than book cost, even without taking into account a substantial reduction for depletion reserves of $1,152,854, which the companies had accrued on
did not make this conceded deduction-perhaps because it held, contrary to the companies' contention, that the properties should be amortized over the entire life of the business.
The companies estimated that the cost of additional property, not
including replacements, during the future life of the enterprise, subsequent to June 1, 1939, would be $9,145,083. On this basis, they claimed
that there should be included in the rate base $6,046,286, which they
said would be the estimated average investment. The Commission included in the rate base only $3,808,399, which was the companies' estimated outlay for capital additions through the end of 1942. This reduction does not appear to be challenged. In any event, the refusal
to include in the rate base capital expenditures not yet made can not
involve confiscation.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

their own books by the end of 1938. The Commission
declined to include going concern value as an additional
item in the rate base.
The companies urge, as the Court of Appeals held, that
there are items of cost or expense incurred in the establishment and development of the business during the
seven-year period prior to regulation, which were not included in the companies' estimate of value accepted by the
Commission, and which, in view of the special characteristics of the business, should be capitalized and added to the
rate base to the extent of $8,500,000 for going concern
value. They include, in amounts not now material, the
following: expenditures for securing new business; interest
on money invested in non-productive plant capacity.%taxes
paid on non-productive capacity; fixed operating expenses
attributable to non-productive capacity, and depreciation
on non-productive capacity.6 The companies' contentions
with respect to all these items are predicated upon the
limited life of the business, twenty-three years, and on
testimony that in anticipation of its growth larger gas
mains and facilities were constructed than were required
during the earlier years of the business. The reproduction
cost new of this excess of equipment is admittedly included
in. None
the rate
of base.
these items appears in the companies' capital
account. With the possible exception of expenditures for
securing new business, they are synthetic figures arrived
at by estimating the amount of expense attributable to the
current cost of maintenance of the excess capacity of the
plant during periods when the excess capacity was not
'The item for depreciation on non-productive capacity, amounting
to $382,833, is obviously provided for in the Commission's allowance
for depreciation. The value of the companies' entire plant, whether
fully productive or not, is included in the rate base and, as will presently
appear, provision was made by the Commission's order for its amortization on a cost basis from earnings.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

589

Opinion of the Cofirt.

used. But the interest charges, taxes and other costs of
maintaining this excess capacity during the period when
not in use have not been capitalized by the companies on
their books and so far as appears were paid from current
earnings. The same is true of the expenditure for advertising and other expenses of acquiring new business.
The novel question is thus presented whether confiscation, proscribed by Congress' as well as the Constitution,
results from the exclusion from the rate base of the previous costs of maintaining excess plant capacity and of
getting new business. The Commission gave full consideration to this contention. It said: "The companies'
claim for $8,500,000 for going concern value must be disallowed. The amount obviously is an arbitrary claim,
not supported by substantial evidence warranting its allowance. Its allowance would mean the acceptance of a
deceptive fiction, resulting in an unfair imposition upon
consumers. We are convinced that we are allowing in
our rate base more than an adequate amount to cover all
elements of value."
There is no constitutional requirement that going concern value, even when it is an appropriate element to be
included in a rate base, must be separately stated and
appraised as such. This Court has often sustained valuations for rate purposes of a business assembled as a
whole, without separate appraisal of the going concern,
element. Columbus Gas Co. v. Commission, 292 U. S.
398, 411; Dayton P. & L. Co. v. Commission, 292 II. S.
290, 309; Denver Stock Yard Co. v. United States, supra,
478-480; Driscoll v. Edison Co., supra, 117. When that
has been done, the burden rests on the regulated company to show that this item has neither been adequately
covered in the rate base nor recouped from prior earnings
of the business. Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines,
238 U. S. 153, 166.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The total value of the companies' plant, including
equipment in excess of immediate needs when beginning
business, has been included in the rate base adopted. If
rightly included, as the Commission has assumed for
purposes of the order, the companies would have been
entitled to earn a fair return upon its value, had the
business been regulated from the start. - But it does not
follow that the companies' property would be confiscated
by denying to them the privilege of capitalizing the
maintenance cost of excess plant capacity, which would
allow them to earn a return and amortization allowance
upon such costs during the entire life of th6 business.
It is only on the assumption that excess capacity is a
part of the utility's equipment used and useful in the
regulated business, that it can be included as a part of
the rate base on which a return may be earned. When
so included, the utility gets its return not from capitalizing the maintenance cost, but from current earnings by
rates sufficient, having in view the character of the business, to secure a fair return upon the rate base, provided
the business is capable of earning it. But regulation
does not insure that the business shall produce net revenues, nor does the Constitution require that the losses
of the business in one year shall be restored from future
earnings by the device of capitalizing the losses and
adding themto the rate base on which a fair return and
depreciation allowance is to be earned. Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388; San Diego Land &
Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 446-47. The deficiency may not be thus added to the rate base, for the
obvious reason that the hazard that the property will
not earn a profit remains on the company in the case
of a regulated, as well as an unregulated, business.
Here the companies, though unregulated, always treated
their entire original investment, together with subsequent
additions, as capital on which'profit was to be earned.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

They charged the out-of-pocket cost of maintenance of
plant, whether used to capacity or not, as operating expenses deductible from earnings before arriving at net
profits. They have thus treated the items now sought to
be capitalized in the rate base as operating expenses to be
compensated from earnings, as in the case of regulated
companies. The history of the first seven years of operation before regulation shows an average annual return,'
after deduction of operating expenses, of approximately
8% on the undepreciated investment. This high return
was earned during a period which included the severest
depression in our history.
Whether there is going concern value in any case depends upon the financial history of the business. Houston
v. Southwestern Tel. Co., 259 U. S. 318, 325. This is
peculiarly true of a business which derives its estimates of
going concern value from a financial history preceding
regulation. That history here discloses no basis for going
concern value, both because the elements relied upon fQr
that purpose could rightly be rejected as capital investment in the case of a regulated company, and because in
the present case it does not appear that the items, which
have never been treated as capital investment, have not
been recouped during the unregulated period.
We cannot say that the Commission has deprived the
companies of their property by refusing to permit them
to earn for the future a fair return and amortization on
the costs of maintenance of initial excess capacity-costs
which the companies fail to show have not already been
recouped from earnings before computing the substantial
"net profits" earned during the first seven years. The
items for advertising and acquiring new business have
been treated in the same way by the companies, and do
'Besides $8,244,435 of "net profits," the companies paid out of
gross income $23,994,030 as interest on the bonds.

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

not, in the circumstances of this case, stand on any different footing. Cf. West Ohio Gas Co. v. Commission, 294
U. S. 63, 72.
The Amortization Base. The Commission took as the
amortization base the sum of $78,284,009. This was made
up of the companies' total investment, at the end of 1938,
of $67,173,761 (without, deduction of property retirements already made), plus estimated future capital additions through 1954, including replacements, amounting
to $12,159,380,8 less estimated salvage at the predicted end
of the project in 1954. It is not questioned that the Commission's annual amortization allowance of $1,557,852,
accumulated at the sinking fund interest rate of 6

%o

adopted by the order, will be sufficient in 1954 to restore
the capital investment so computed.
The companies argue that the amortization base, computed on a basis of reproduction cost, should be $84,341,218 1 rather than cost plus estimated future capital
additions. But the purpose of the amortization allowance
and its justification is that it is a means of restoring from
current earnings the amount of service capacity of the
business consumed in each year. Lindheimer v. Illinois
8We do not intimate any approval of the inclusion in the amortization base of all the estimated future capital additions.
"The companies' proposed amortization base was made up of the
following items:
Reproduction cost new, excluding gas reserves.. $56, 302,250
Viewed depreciation (deduct) ...............
2,866,758
Value of gas reserves........... .........
13, 334,775
Cost of additional property................
9,145, 083
Going concern value ........................
8,500,000
.975,000
Working capital ............................

Less salvage .........................

$85, 390,350
1,049,132
$84, 341,218

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

593

Opinion of the Court.

Tel. Co., 292 U. S. 151, 167. When the property is devoted
to a business which can exist for only a limited term, any
scheme of amortization which will restore the capifal investment at the end of the term involves no deprivation of
property. Even though the reproduction cost of the property during the period may be more than its actual cost,
this theoretical accretion to value represents no profit fto
the owner, since the property dedicated to the business,
save for its salvage value, is destined for the scrap-heap
when the business ends. The Constitution does not require that the owner who embarks-in a wasting-asset business of limited life shall receive at the end more than he
has put into it. We need not now consider whether, as
the Government urges, there can in no circumstances be a
constitutional requirement that the amortization base be
the reproduction value rather than the actual cost of the
property devoted to a regulated business. Cf. United
Railways Co. v. West, 280 U. S. 234, 265. It is enough
that here the business, by hypothesis, will end in 1954,
and that the amortization base, computed at cost and
includingproperty already retired, will be completely restored by 1954 by the annual amortization allowances.
As the Commission declared: "The amounts of amortization are recognized and treated as operating expenses.
Operating expenses are stated on the basis of cost....
We refuse to make an allowance of amortization in excess
of cost. To do so would not be the computation of a
proper. expense, but instead the allowance of additional
profit over and above a fair return. Manifestly such an
additional return would unjustly penalize consumers."
The Amortization Period. The court below held that,
since the business was unregulated -for the first seven
years, the adoption by the Commission of the estimated
twenty-three year life-of the business as the amortization
period involved a denial of due. process. In ,view of ,the
estimate by the Commission and the companies that the

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

gas properties would be exhausted in about sixteen years
from the date of the Act, the court thought, as the companies argue, that a rate of return would be confiscatory
which would, not provide, in addition to a fair return, an
annual -amortization allowance sufficient* to restore the
total investment over the final sixteen-year period. But
this argument overlooks -the fact that the depreciation
of physical property attributed to use, and the obsolescence of the entire property attributable to lapse of time
in the case of a business having a limited life, had been
taking place during the seven years before regulation and
that those items must be recouped if at all from earnings. Capital investment loss at the end of the life of a
business can only be avoided by restoration of the investment from earnings, and is avoidable so far as is humanly
possible only by an appropriate charge of amortization
to earnings as they accrue.
Here, there is no question but that the Commission's
annual amortization allowance, if applied over the entire
twenty-three year life of the business, is sufficient to
Jrestore the total capital investment at the end, or that
earnings of the past and those estimated
for the future
together are sufficient to provide for the amortization
allowance and a fair return, given an appropriate rate
base and rate of return. Making that assumption, we
cannot say that adequate provision has not been made
for restoration of the companies' investment from earnings, and a fair return on the investment. Even though
the companies were unregulated for seven years, earnings during that period were available and adequate for
amortization. In fact, the companies' charges to earnings, for depreciation, depletion and retirements, totalled
$19,558,810, 'or an average of $2,794,115 per annum.
This was in conformity with the established business
practice, in the case of unregulated as well as regulated
businesses, to make such a depreciation or amortization

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

allowance chargeable annually to earnings as an operating expense in order to provide adequately for annual
consumption of capital in the business. Lindheimer v.
Illinois Tel. Co., supra.
The companies are not deprived of property by a requirement that they credit in the amortization account
so much of the earnings received during the prior period
as are appropriately allocable to it for amortization.
Only by that method is it possible to determine the
amount of earnings which may justly be required for
amortization during the remaining life of the business.
Amortization Interest Rate. The annual amortization allowances of $1,557,852, if accumulated at a 6/2%o
compound interest rate until the assumed exhaustion of
the gas reserves in 1954, will be sufficient to restore the
undepreciated total investment less the salvage value of
the property. The companies urge that the interest rate
should have been lower, say 2%, on the assumption that
only some such lower rate would be earned by a hypothetical sinking fund to be created from the annual
amortization allowances. But the argument ignores the
fact that the amortization method adopted by the Cornmisssion contemplates not a sinking fund of segregated
securities purchased with cash withdrawn from the business, but merely a sinking fund reserve charged to earnings and not distributable as ordinary dividends. -Under
this method there is no deduction of the amortization
allowances from the rate-base on which a fair return61/2% under the current interim order-is to be allowed
during the life of the business.
The companies are thus allowed to earn in each year,
in addition to the amortization allowance, 6Y2% on both
the amortized and the unamortized portions of the base.
If the amortization interest were computed at a 2% rate
without deducting the apnortized portion from the rate
base, the companies would continue to receive a 6Y7

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

instead of only a 2% return on that portion of the investment. True, the method of amortization adopted means
that the companies look to the earnings of the business
for the hypothetical interest on amortization reserve.
This, it is argued, may involve more business risk than
a method of amortization contemplating the actual withdrawal from the business of the amortization allowances
and their investment in segregated securities bearing a
lower rate of interest. But here the 6/2 % rate of return
allowed on the amortized portion of the rate base includes
compensation for the business risk, and the risk is an
incident of the business in which the companies have
hazarded their capital and in which they propose to invest additional capital. The Commission declared it
adopted this method to avoid the inequitable result
which would follow if the companies were permitted to
include in their charges to the public 6 % on the
amortized portion of the base, while treating
it as earning
only 2%. The Commission's conclusion that this is an
appropriate method is supported by the evidence, and in
any case it does not appear that it has deprived or will
depriv.ethe companies of property.
Fair Rate' of Return. The Commission found that
"62 per cent is a fair annual rate of return upon the
rate base allowed," which it had characterized as "a generous allowance.". The courts are required to accept the
Commission's findings if they are supported by substantial-evidence. § 19(b). We cannot say, on this record,
that the Commission was bound to allow a higher rate.
The evidence shows that profits earned by individual
industrial corporations declined from 11.3% on invested
capital in 1929 to 5.1% in 1938. The profits of utility
corporations declined during the same period from 7.2%
to 5.1%. For railroad corporations, the decline was from
6.4% to 2.3%. Interest rates were at a low level on all
forms of investment,, and among the lowest that have

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

ever existed. The securities of natural gas companies
were sold at rates of return of from 3% to 6 %, with yields
on most of their bond issues between 3% and 4%. The
interest on large loans ranged from 2% to 3.25%.
The regulated business here seems exceptionally free
from hazards which might otherwise call for special consideration in determining the fair rate of return. Substantially all its product is distributed in the metropolitan area of Chicago, a stable and growing market,
through distributing companies which own 26% of the
investment of the Natural Gas Pipeline Company.
Ninety per cent of its gas is taken under contract by the
Chicago District Pipeline Company. The contract runs
until 1946 or until 1951, at the option of the companies.
Under it the District Company is bound to take, or at
least pay for, 662/3% of the companies' gas, and performance is guaranteed by the three companies distributing
the gas in Chicago.
The danger of early exhaustion of the gas field was
fully taken into account in the estimate of its life, and
the companies' estimate was accepted. Provision for
the complete amortization of the investment within that
period affords a security to the investment which is lacking to those industries whose capital investments must be
continued for an indefinite period. The companies'
affiliation with the six large corporations which directly
or indirectly own all the stock, places them in a strong
position for their future financing. The business is in
the same position as other similar businesses with respect
to increased taxation, inflation and costs of operation.
Other factors, such as credit risks, risks of technological
changes, varying demands for product, relatively smali
labor requirements, and conversion of inventoly into
cash, compare more favorably. After a fuii consideration of all of these factors and of expert testimony, the
Commission concluded that the prescribed reduction in

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the tourt.

315 U. S.

revenues was just and reasonable, and that the 6 % was
a fair rate of return.
Dispositionof Excess ChargesCollected Since the Commission's Order. The Circuit Court of Appeals stayed
the Commission's order pending appeal. The companies
state that, as a condition of the stay, the court required
them to give a bond in the sum of $1,000,000, conditioned
upon their refund of excess charges to customers, in the
event that the Commission's order should be sustained.
The bond is not in the record and its precise terms are
not before us.
The companies point out that substantially all the gas
affected by the reduction in revenues is sold to wholesalers
who distribute it for ultimate consumption. They argue
that the purpose of the rate regulation is the protection of
consumers, and that the purposes of the Act will not be
effectuated by the refunds to wholesalers. They insist
that such refunds, being the wholesalers' profits from past
business, cannot be resorted to for reducing future rates
to the consumers. Cf. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1, 14; Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, supra,
258 U. S. at 395.
Of this contention it is enough to say that the question
of the disposition of the excess charges is not before us
for determination on the present record. Cf. Morgan v.
United States, 304 U. S. 1, 26. Amounts collected in
excess of the Commission's order are declared to be unlawful by § 4 (a) of the Act. If there is any basis, either
in the bond or the circumstances relied upon by the companies, for not compelling the companies to surrender
these illegal exactions, it does not appear from the record.
We have' considered but find it unnecessary to discuss
other objections of lesser moment to the Commission's
order. We sustain the validity of the order and reverse
the judgment below.
Reversed.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

BLAcx, DouGLAs, and MURPHY, JJ., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS, and MR.

JUSTIcE MuRPHY, concurring.

We concur with the Court's judgment that the rate
order of the Federal Power Commission, issued after a
fair hearing upon findings of fact supported by substantial evidence, should have been sustained by the court below. But insofar as the Court assumes that, regardless
of the terms of the statutt, Ghe due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment grants it power to invalidate an order as
unconstitutional because it finds the charges to be
unreasonable, we are unable to join in the opinion just
announced.
Rate making is a species of price fixing. In a recent
series of cases, this Court has held that legislative price
fixing is not prohibited by the due process clause.1 We
believe that, in so holding, it has returned, in part at least,
to the constitutional principles which prevailed for the
first hundred years of -our history. Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113; Peik v. Chicago& N. W. Ry. Co., 94 U. S. 164.
Cf. McCart v. IndianapolisWater Co., 302 U. S. 419, 427'Some of these cases arose under the Fifth, some Under the Fourteenth, Amendment. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502 (state statute authorizing a milk control board to fix minimum and maximum
retail prices for milk); Mulford v. Snith, 307 U. S. 38 (federal statute
imposing penalties on tobacco auction warehousemen for marketing
tobacco in excess of prescribed quota); United States v. Rock Royal
Co-op., 307 U. S. 533 (federal statute authorizing Secretary of Agriculture to fix minimum prices to be paid producers for milk sold to
dealers); Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381 (federal statute
authorizing Bituminous Coal Commission to fix maximum and minimum prices fo bituminous coal); United States v. Darby,312 U. S. 100
(federal statute fixing minimum wages (and maximum hours) for
employees engaged in production of goods for interstate commerce);
Olsen v. Nebraska, 313 U. S. 236 (state statute fixing maximum compensation to be collected by private employment agencies).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BiAcK, DOUGLAS,

and

MURPHY, JJ.,

concurring. 315 U.S.

428. The Munn and Peik cases, decided in 1877, Justices
Field and Strong dissenting, emphatically declared price
fixing to be a constitutional prerogative of the legislative
branch, not subject to judicial review or revision.
In 1886, four of the Justices who had voted with him
in the Munn and Peik cases no longer being on the Court,
Chief Justice Waite expressed views in an opinion of the
Court which indicated a yielding in part to the doctrines
previously set forth in Mr. Justice Field's dissenting opinions, although the decision, upholding a state regulatory
statute, did not require him to reach this issue. See
Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 331. For an
interesting discussion of the evolution of this change of
position, see Swisher, Stephen J. Field, 372-392. By 1890,
six Justices of the 1877 Court, including Chief Justice
Waite, had been replaced by others. The new Court then
clearly repudiated the opinion expressed for the Court
by Chief Justice Waite in the Munn and Peik cases, in a
holding which accorded with the views of Mr. Justice
Field. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134
U. S. 418. Under those views, first embodied in a holding
of this Court in 1890, "due process" means no less than
"reasonableness judicially determined."
In accordance
with this elastic meaning which, in the words of Mr. Justice
Holmes, makes the sky the limit 8 of judicial power to
declare legislative acts unconstitutional, the conclusions
of judges, substituted for those of legislatures, become a
broad and varying standard of constitutionality.4 We
'See Polk Company v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5, 12-19. Cf. Chambers v.
Florida,309 U. S. 227, 235-238.
"'As the decisions now stand, I see hardly any limit but the sky to
the invalidating of those rights if they happen to strike a majority
of this Court as for any reason undesirable." Baldwlin v. Missouri
281 U. S. 586, 595.
. 'To hold that the Fourteenth Amendment was intended'to and did
provide protection from state invasions of the right of free speech

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

BLAcx, DOUGLAS, and MURPHY, JJ., concurring.

shall not attempt now to set out at length the reasons for
our belief that acceptance of such a meaning is historically
unjustified and that it transfers to courts powers which,
under the Constitution, belong to the legislative branch
of government. But we feel that we must record our disagreement from an opinion which, although upholding the
action of the Commission on these particular facts, nevertheless gives renewed vitality to a "constitutional" doctrine which we are convinced has no support in the Constitution.
The doctrine which makes of "due process" an unlimited grant to courts to approve or reject policies selected
by legislatures in accordance with the judges' notion of
reasonableness had its origin in connection with legislative attempts to fix the prices charged by public 5utilities.
And in no field has it had more paralyzing effects.
II

We have here, to be sure, a statute which expressly provides for judicial review. Congress has provided in § 5 of
the Natural Gas Act that the rates fixed by the Commission shall be "just and reasonable." The provision for
judicial review states that the "finding of the Commission
as to the facts, if supported by substantial evidence, shall
be conclusive." § 19 (b). But we are not satisfied that the
opinion of the Court properly delimits the scope of that
review under this Act. Furthermore, since this case starts
and other clearly defined protections contained in the Bill of Rights,
Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Co., 312 U.. S. 287, 301-302, is quite
different from holding that "due process," an historical expression
relating to procedure, Chambers v. Florida, supra, confers a broad
judicial power to invalidate all legislation which seems "unreasonable"
to courts. In the one instance, courts proceeding within clearly
marked constitutional boundaries seek to execute policies written into
the Constitution; in the other, they roam at will in the limitless area
of their own beliefs as to reasonableness and actually select policies,
a resposibility ivhich the Constitution entrusts to the legislative representatives of the people.
' MaCartv. IndianapolisWater Co., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BiACK,

DouGGAs, and

MURPHY,

JJ., concurring. 315 U.S.

a new chapter in the regulation of utility rates, we think
it important to indicate more explicitly than has been done
the -freedom which the Commission has both under the
Constitution and under this new statute. While the opinion of the Court erases much which has been written in
rate cases during the last half century, we think this is
an appropriate occasion to lay the ghost of Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, which has haunted utility regulation since
1898. That is especially desirable lest the reference by the
majority to "constitutional requirements" and to "the
limits of due process" be deemed to perpetuate the fallacious "fair value" theory of rate making in the limited
judicial review provided by the Act.
Smyth v. Ames held (pp. 546-547) that "the basis of all
calculations as to the reasonableness of rates to be charged
by a corporation maintaining a highway under legislative
sanction must be the fair value of the property being used
by it for the convenience of the public. And in order to
ascertain that value, the original cost of construction, the
amount expended in permanent improvements, the
amount and market value of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of construction, the
probable earning capacity of the property under particular
rates prescribed by statute, and the sum required to meet
operating expenses, are all matters for consideration, and
are to be given such weight as may be just and right in
each case. We do not say that there may not be other matters to be regarded in estimating the value of the property.
What the company is entitled to ask is a fair return upon
the value of that which it employs for the public convenience. On the other hand, what the public is entitled
to demand is that no more be exacted from it for the use
of a public highway than the services rendered by it are
reasonably worth."
(1) This theory der:,res from principles of eminent domain. See Mr. Justice Brewer, Ames v. Union PacificRy.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

BLACK, DouGlAs, and

MURPHY,

603 .

JJ., concurring.

Co., 64 F. 165, 177; West v. Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., 295 U. S. 662, 671; Hale, Conflicting Judicial
Criteria of Utility Rates, 38 Col. L. Rev. 959. In condemnation cases the "value of property, generally speaking, is determined by its productiveness-the profits which
its use brings to the owner." Monongahela Navigation
Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 328, 329. Cf. Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois, 312 U. S.510,
525-526. But those principles have no place in rate regulation. In the first place, the value of a going concern in
fact depends on earnings under whatever irtes may be anticipated. The present fair value rule creates, but offers
no solution to, the dilemma that value depends upon the
rates fixed and the rates upon value. See Mr. Justice
Brandeis, Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public
Service Commission, 262 U. S. 276, 92; Hale, The Fair
Value Merry-Go-Round, 33 111. L. Rev. 517; 2 Bonbright,
Valuation of Property, pp. 1094 et seq. In the second
place, when property is taken under the power of eminent
domain the owner is "entitled to the full money equivalent
of the property taken, and thereby to be put in as good
position pecuniarily as it would have occupied if its property had not been taken." United States v. New River
Collieries Co., 262 U. S. 341, 343. But in rate-making, the
owner does not have any such protection. We know, without attempting any valuation, that if earnings are reduced the value will be less. But that does not stay the
hand of the legislature or its administrative agency in making rate reductions. As we have said, rate-making is one
species of price-fixing. Price-fixing, like other forms of
social legislation, may well diminish the value of the property which is regulated. But that is no obstacle to its
validity. As stated by Mr. Justice Holmes in Block v.
Hirsh, 256 U. S.135, 155: "The fact that tangible property is also visible tends to give a rigidity to our conception
of our rights in it that we do not attach to others less con-

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAmCK, 'Douo(uxs, and

MURPHY,

JJ.,

concurring. 315 U. S.

cretely clothed. But the notion that the former are exempt from the legislative modification required from time
to time in civilized life is contradicted not only by the doetrine of eminent domain, under which what is taken is paid
for, but by that of the police power in its proper sense, under which property rights may be cut down, and to that extent taken, without pay." Somewhat the same view was
expressed in Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 532, where
thiNCourt said: "The due process clause makes no mention f sales or of prices any more than it speaks of business 'or contracts or buildings or other incidents of
property. The thought seems nevertheless to have persisted that there is something peculiarly sacrosanct about
the price one may charge for what he makes or sells, and
that, however able to regulate other elements of manu:
facture or trade, with incidental effect upon price, the
state is incapable of directly controlling the price itself.
This view was negatived many years ago. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113." Explicit recognition of these principles will place the problems of rate-making in their proper
setting under this statute.
(2) The rule of Smyth v. Ames, as construed and applied, directs the rate-making body in forming its judgment as to "fair value" to take into consideration various
elements-capitalization, book cost, actual cost, prudent
investment, reproduction cost. See Mr. Justice Brandeis,
Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, supra, pp. 294-295. But as stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis: "Obviously 'value' cannot be a composite
of all these elements. Nor can it be arrived at on all these
bases. They are very different; and must, when applied
in a particular case, lead to widely different results. The
rule of Smyth v. Ames, as interpreted and applied, means
merely that all must be considered. What, if'lnyp weight
shall be given to any one, must practically rest in the
judicial discretion of the tribunal which makes the deter-

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

BLAcK,

DOUGLAS, and

MURPHY,

JJ., concurring.

mination. Whether a desired result is reached may depend upon how any one of many elements is treated."
Id., pp. 295-296. The risks of not giving weight to reproduction cost have been great. Southwestern Bell
Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, supra; St.
Louis & O'FallonRy. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 461.
The havoc raised by insistence on reproduction cost is now
a matter of historical record. Mr. Justice Brandeis in
the Southwestern Bell Telephone case demonstrated how
the rule of Smyth v. Ames has seriously impaired the
power of rate-regulation and how the "fair value" rule
has proved to be unworkable by reason of the time required
to make the valuations, the heavy expense involved, and
And see Mr.
the unreliability of the results obtained
Justice Brandeis concurring, St. Joseph Stock Yards Co.
v. United States, 298 U. S. 38, 73; dissenting opinion, McCartv. IndianapolisWater Co., 302 U. S. 419, 423 et seq.;
Mr. Justice Stone dissenting, West v. Chesapeake& Potomac Telephone Co., supra. The result of this Court's
rulings in rate cases since Smyth v. Ames has recently been
summarized as follows: "Under the influence of these
precedents, commission regulation has become so cumbersome and so ineffective that it may be said, with only
slight exaggeration, to have broken down. Even the investor,7 on whose behalf the constitutional safeguards have
relation between the public utility and the community cannot
be expressed in terms of a simple, quantitatively ascertainable fact, for
the relation involves numerous and complex factors which depend on
compromise and practical adjustment rather than on deductive logic.
The whole doctrine of Smyth v. Ames rests upon a gigantic illusion.
The fact which for twenty years the court has been vainly trying to
find does not exist. 'Fair value' must be shelved among the great
juristic myths of history, with the Law of Nature and the Social
Contract. As a practical concept, from which practical conclusions
can be drawn, it is valueless." Henderson, Railway Valuation and
the Courts, 33 Harv. L. Rev. 1031, 1051.
' "Such valuation proceedings, as heretofore conducted, are excessively costly, require a long period of time, affect adversely the
6"The

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BiAcx, Dou;LAs, and

MURHY,

JJ., concurring. 315 U. S.

been developed, has received no protection against the
rebounds from the inflated stock-market prices that are
stimulated by the 'fair-value' doctrine." Bonbright, op.
cit., p. 1154.
As we read the opinion of the Court, the Commission
is now freed from the compulsion of admitting evidence
on reproduction cost or of giving any weight to that
element of "fair value." The Commission may now
adopt, if it chooses, prudent investment as a rate basethe base long advocated by Mr. Justice Brandeis. And
for the reasons stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis in the
Southwestern Bell Telephone case, there could be no constitutional objection if the Commission adhered to that
formula and rejected all others.
Yet it is important to note, as we have indicated, that
Congress has merely provided in § 5 of the Natural Gas
Act that the rates fixed by the Commission shall be "just
and reasonable." It has provided no standard beyond
that. :Congress, to be sure, has provided for judicial review. But § 19(b) states that the "finding of the Commission as to the facts, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive." In view of these provisions,
we do not think it is permissible for the courts to concern
themselves with any issues as to the economic merits of
a rate base. The Commission has a broad area of discretion for selection of an appropriate rate base. The
requirements of "just and reasonable" embrace, among
other factors, two phases of the public interest: (1) the
corporation's credit, interfere with its financing upon favorable terms,
and frequently cause the postponement of extenslions and improvements to the great detriment of the public. Unless and until there
is some change in the legal principles which must be applied in determining fair value, however, the industry cannot escape from this
situation." Report of the Coiniittee on Valuation, American Electric

Railway Assoc., 1924, p. 20.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

BLAcK, DouGiAS, and

MuRPHY, JJ., concurring.

investor interest; (2) the consumer interest. The investor interest is adequately served if the utility is allowed the opportunity to earn the cost of the service.
That cost has been defined by Mr. Justice Brandeis as
follows: "Cost includes not only operating expenses, but
also capital charges. Capital charges cover the allowance, by way of interest, for the use of the capital, whatever the nature of the security issued therefor; the allowance for risk incurred; and enough more to attract
capital." Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public
Service Commission, supra, 262 U. S. at p. 291. Irrespective of what the return fiay be on "fair value," if
the rate permits the company to operate successfully and
to attract capital all questions as to "just and reasonable" are at an end so far as the investor interest is
concerned. Various routes to that end may be worked
out by the expert administrators charged with the duty
of regulation. It is not the function of the courts to
prescribe what formula should be used. The fact that
one may be fair to investors does not mean that another
would be unfair. The decision in each case must turn
on considerations of justness and fairness which cannot
be cast into a legalistic formula. The rate of return to
be allowed in any given case calls for a highly expert
judgment. That judgment has been entrusted to the
Commission. There it should rest.
One caveat, however, should be entered. The consumer interest cannot be disregarded. in determining
what is, a "just and reasonable" rate. Conceivably, a
return to the company of the cost of the service might
not be "just and reasonable" to the public. The correct
principle was announced by this Court in Covington &
Lexington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 596:
"It cannot be said that a corporation is entitled, as of
right, and without reference to the interests of the pub-

1608

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Bucx, Douas, and

MURPHY,

JJ., concurring. 315 U.S.

lic, to realize a given per cent upon its capital stock.
When the question arises whether the legislature has exceeded its constitutional power in prescribing rates to be
charged by a corporation controlling a public highway,
stockholders are not the only persons whose rights or
interests are to be considered. The rights of the public
are not to be ignored. It is alleged here that the rates
prescribed are unreasonable and unjust to the company
and its stockholders. But that involves an inquiry as to
what is reasonable and just for the public. If the establishing of new lines of transportation should cause a
diminution in the number of those who need to use a
turnpike road, and, consequently, a diminution in the
tolls collected, that is not, in itself, a sufficient reason
why the corporation, operating the road, should be allowed to maintain rates that would be unjust to those
who must or do use its property. The public cannot
properly be subjected to unreasonable rates in order simply that stockholders may earn dividends." Cf. Chicago
& Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345346; United Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 150-151.
This problem carries into a field not necessary to develop here. It re~mphasizes, however, that the investor
interest is not the sole interest for protection. The investor and consumer interests may so collide as to warrant the rate-making body in concluding that a return
on historical cost or prudent investment, though fair to
investors, would be grossly unfair to the consumers. The
possibility of that collision reinforces the view that the
problem of rate-making is for the administrative experts,
not the courts, and that the ex post facto function previously performed by the courts should be reduced to the
barest minimum which is consistent with the statutory
mandate for judicial review. That review should be as
confined and restricted as the review, under similar statutes, of orders of other administrative agencies.

POWER COMM'N v. PIPELINE CO.
575

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring:

I wholly agree with the opinion of the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

Congress has in the Natural Gas Act specifically cast
upon courts the duty to review orders of the Federal
Power Commission fixing "just and reasonable" rates.
The constitutional scope of judicial review of rate orders
where Congress has denied judicial review is therefore
not in issue in this case. Discussion of the problem is
academic, especially since we all concur in the CHIEF
JUSTICE'S conclusions on the rate order here made by the
Commission. But since the issue has been stirred, I add
a few words because legal history still has its claims.
While the doctrine of "confiscation," as a limitation to
be enforced by the judiciary upon the legislative power
to fix-utility rates, was first applied in Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, that decision followed principles expounded in Stone v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307, especially at 331. See 134 U. S.
at 455-56. Mr. Chief Justice Waite, who delivered the
opinion in the Stone case as well as in the earlier decision in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, was therefore the
author of the doctrine of "confiscation" and its corollary,
"judicial review." His view was shared by such Stout respecters of legislative power over utilities as Mr. Justice
Miller (see Fairman, Mr, Justice Miller and the Supreme
Court, passim), Mr. Justice Bradley (see his dissent in
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418,
461), and Mr. Justice Harlan. The latter, indeed, agreed
with Mr. Justice Field that the regulatory power exercised in the Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307,
constituted an impairment of the obligation of contract.
By no one was the doctrine of judicial review more emphatically accepted, and applied in favor of a public
utility, than by Mr. Justice Harlan in the. decision and
opinion in Covington & Lexington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, especially at 591-95.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

But while this historic controversy over the constitutional limitations upon the power of courts in rate cases
is not presented here, if it be deemed that courts have
nothing to do with rate-making because that task was
committed exclusively to the Commission, surely it is a
usurpation of the Commission's function to tell it how it
should discharge this task and how it should protect the
various interests that are deemed to be in its, and not in
our, keeping.
PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO., S.

EN

C.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 95. Argued February 3, 4, 1942.-Decided March 16, 1942.

In aid of the operation of an irrigation district on a stream in Puerto
Rico, the insular Commissioner of the Interior made contracts with
a company owning rights to divert water from the stream for the
irrigation of lands not embraced in the district, whereby, in consideration of a suspension of the company's water rights in certain
particulars, the insular Government undertook to deliver to it at
its intakes specified quantities of water regularly, as the fair equivalent of the rights suspended. Held, that the Commissioner had
statutory authority to make the contracts and that a later statute
which sought to recoup part of the cost of maintaining and operating
the district system by imposing annual assessments, erroneously
called "taxes," on the company's lands, impaired the obligation of
the contracts in violation of the insular Organic Act. P. 616.
118 F. 2d 225, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 589, to review a judgment which,
reversing a judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico, 56 P. R. Dec. 343, reinstated a judgment of the insular District Court dismissing the complaint in an action
brought by Puerto Rico to recover sums claimed as taxes.
For earlier phases see, 21 F. 2d 1012; 60 F. 2d 10; 288
U. S. 476.

