OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

ings, in which petitioner denied the allegation of title
in the United States, and there was no proof or stipulation
that the United States had any title. On this state of the
record, the United States was not entitled to any judgment
below. However, we permitted the parties to cure this
defect by a stipulation showing that the United States has
retained title to certain tracts of land over which petitioner's right of way passes, in a limited area,22 and that
petitioner intended to drill for and remove the oil underlying its right of way over each of those tracts. Accordingly, the judgment will be modified and limited to the
areas*described in the stipulation. As so modified, it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MACGREGOR, EXECUTOR, v. STATE MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 179.

Argued February 2, 3, 1942.-Decided February 16, 1942.

In the absence of any relevant decision by the state courts, this
Court accepts in this cause an interpretation of local law by the
Federal District Court in the State and by three Circuit Judges
whose circuit includes it. P. 281.
119 F. 2d 148, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 591, to review the affirmance
of a judgment against the petitioner in a suit to recover
the amount of a premium paid on an annuity contract.
Lots 1, 2 and 3, See. 12; lots 1, 4, 5, 9 and 10, See. 13, T. 29 N., R.
15 W., Montana Meridian, all being within the exterior boundaries of
the Glacier National Park; NW'A SE'A Sec. 28; NW1 ,4 Sec. 29; NE 4
NW'A See. 30; NEY4 Sec. 34, T. 32 N., R. 24 E., Montana Meridian.

MAcGREGOR v. STATE MUTUAL CO.
280

281

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William B. Giles for petitioner.
.Mr. Wm. Marshall Bullitt for respondent.
PER CURIM.

Petitioner brought this action to recover the premium
of a life annuity contract purchased by his decedent. The
suit was begun in a state court of Michigan, but was removed, because of diversity of citizenship, to the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Petitioner's claim is founded on the applicability
of Michigan legislation regulating the conduct of insurance business in Michigan. The District Court held that
"the contract involved herein having been executed outside the State of Michigan, the statutes of the State of
Michigan relied upon by the plaintiff are not applicable."
Accordingly judgment went against petitioner. This
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
119 F. 2d 148.
No decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan, or of
any other court of that State, construing the relevant
Michigan law has been brought to our attention. In the
absence of such guidance, we shall leave undisturbed the
interpretation placed upon purely local law by a Michigan federal judge of long experience and by three circuit
judges whose circuit includes Michigan.
Affirmed.

