OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

315 U. S.

HALLIDAY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 101.

Argued January 5, 1942.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. Evidence held sufficient to go to the jury on the question whether
petitioner, holder of a War Risk Insurance policy expiring October
31, 1920, was totally and permanently disabled on or before that
day, and thereafter. P. 96.
2. In proving that the insured became totally and permanently disabled before the expiration of his War Risk contract, evidence of
his conduct and condition during ensuing years is relevant. P. 98.
3. In an action on a War Risk Insurance policy inferences may be
drawn unfavorable to a claim of total and permanent injury from
the failure of the insured to secure medical treatment which he
might have had. P. 99.
4. In an action on a War Risk Insurance policy wherein it was claimed
that the insured became totally and permanently disabled before
October 31, 1920, the date of the expiration of the policy, and
remained so, it was error for the District Court to exclude evidence
of his condition subsequently to December 9, 1935, when he was
adjudged incompetent by a county probate court. Refusal to
admit evidence of his condition after that date, though erroneous,
was not prejudicial to the Government's case. P. 100.
116 F. 2d 812, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 588, to review a judgment which

reversed a judgment of the District Court in favor of the
plaintiff Halliday in an action on a War Risk Insurance

policy.
Messrs. R. K. Wise and Warren E. Miller for petitionler.
Mr. Wilbur C. Pickett, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Julius C. Martin, Fendall Marbury,
and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.

HALLIDAY v. UNITED STATES.
94

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BYRNES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the petitioner, through his
Committee, on a $10,000 War Risk Insurance policy. The
complaint alleged that petitioner had become permanently
and totally disabled by April 2, 1919, the date on which
he was honorably discharged by the Army. The insurance
contract was in effect on that date and remained in effect
until October 31, 1920. At the close of all the evidence,
the Government's motion for a directed verdict was denied.
The jury returned a verdict for petitioner and found that
he had become permanently and totally disabled by April
2, 1919. The Government moved for a new trial, the
motion was denied, and judgment was entered on the verdict. On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
116 F. 2d 812. It held that there was insufficient evidence
to go to the jury and it remanded the case to the District
Court with directions to set aside the verdict and to enter
judgment in favor of the Government.
Petitioner sought certiorari on two grounds: that the
Circuit Court of Appeals had erred in holding that there
was insufficient evidence for the jury; and that, even if
the evidence was insufficient, under Rule 50 (b) of the
Rules of Civil Procedure' the Circuit Court was without
1"Whenever

a motion for a directed verdict made at the close of

all the evidence is denied or for any reason is not granted, the court
is deemed to have submitted the action to the jury subject to a later
determination of the legal questions raised by the motion. Within
10 days after the reception of a verdict, a party who has moved for a
directed verdict may move to have the verdict and any judgment
entered thereon set aside and to have judgment entered in accordance
with his motion for a directed verdict; or if a verdict was not returned
such party, within 10 days after the jury has been discharged, may
move for judgment in accordance with his motion for a directed verdict.

A motion for a new trial may be joined with this motion, or a new

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

power to direct entry of judgment for the Government
without a new trial. We granted certiorari, as we had in
Berry v. United States' and Conway v. O'Brien,' because
of the importance of the question concerning Rule 50 (b).
However, as in those cases, we do not reach that problem,
since we are of the opinion that the evidence was sufficient
to support the verdict.
The insurance contract, the Act of Congress which
authorized it," and the regulations issued pursuant to that
Act ' obliged petitioner to prove that he was permanently
and totally disabled on or before October 31,.1920, the date
of expiration of the contract. We think there was evidence from which, if believed, the jury could have drawn
this conclusion.
Period prior to October 81, 1920. Petitioner appeared
to his friends and neighbors as a normal and healthy
young man before his induction into the Army on June
23, 1918. In August he sailed for France, and in September he injured his back and was admitted to a camp hospital. From that time until his discharge, he was examined on several occasions by Army physicians. Their reports reveal that he was "very nervous" and that he gave
"impressions of neurasthenia."
While much of the testimony was not specific. as to
time, several of the witnesses described the appearance and
trial may be prayed for in the alternative. If a verdict was returned
the court may allow the judgment to stand or may reopen the judgment and ,either order a new trial or direct the entry of judgment as
if the requested verdict had been directed.' If no verdict was returned
the court may direct the entry of judgment as if the requested verdict
had been directed or may order a new trial."
1312 U. S. 450.
'312 U. S.492.
'War Risk Insurance Act of October 6, 1917, c. 105, ยง 402, 40
Stat. 409.
'Bulletin No. 1, Treasury Department, Regulations & Procedure,
United States Veterans' Bureau, Volume II, pp. 1233-1237.

HALLIDAY v. UNITED STATES.
94

Opinion of the Court.

behavior of the petitioner immediately following his discharge in April, 1919. The jury was clearly warranted
in regarding their testimony as applicable to the period
during which the insurance policy remained in force.
Dr. J. N. Land, a general practitioner who had been
"the family physician of the Halliday family" and who
had known petitioner from infancy, testified that, from
1919 on, petitioner was the victim of psychoneurosis and
hypochondria. These ills caused him to talk about himself constantly, to imagine the existence of symptoms, and
to become very unfriendly and suspicious. The witness
"would not have advised him to do any work since he has
been out of the Army," and was of the opinion that work
"would have been harmful to him" and would have resulted in "a complete collapse." At the time of his discharge from the Army, the doctor "didn't hold any hope
for his recovery." The Circuit Court of Appeals considered this testimony of "little probative force," chiefly because of Dr. Land's admission that he had not examined
petitioner professionally until about 1932. But the doctor testified that he had seen petitioner "on the streets
or in a drugstore" "at least two or three times a year, possibly more . . . all the way from 1919." Petitioner talked
to him "every chance he has got since 1919." In the course
of these conversations petitioner would describe his condition at length and ask the witness to do something for
him. While the Circuit Court may have regarded the
probative force of this evidence as "little," it was clearly
proper for the jury to conclude from it and from their
understanding of small town life that these encounters
and his earlier intimacy with the Halliday family afforded
Dr. Land an opportunity to form a reliable estimate of
petitioner's condition.
Other witnesses, including his wife and brothers and
neighbors, testified that when he returned from the war
petitioner "was suspicious of everybody," "didn't seem to

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

be the same man," "seemed to be a man that didn't have
a grip on himself," "didn't have the best control of himself." They described him as "a physical wreck," "nervous," "not right," "a complete physical and mental wreck,
very badly torn up physically and mentally." And one
brother testified that petitioner's condition upon his return was "practically the same as it is today."
Periodfollowing October31, 1920. While it is true that
total and permanent disability prior to the expiration of
the insurance contract must be established, evidence as
to petitioner's conduct and condition during the ensuing
years is Certainly relevant. It is a commonplace that
one's state of mind is not always discernible in immediate
events and appearances, and that its measurement must
oftenawait a slow unfolding. This difficulty of diagnosis
and the essential charity of ordinary men may frequently
combine to delay the frank recognition of a diseased mind.
Moreover, the totality and particularly the permanence
of the disability as of 1920 are susceptible of no better
proof than that to be found in petitioner's personal history
for the ensuing 15 years.8
Petitioner's wife testified that during this period he was
unable to do a full day's work, that he threatened to commit suicide and to kill her and their children, and that he
feared attempts to poison him. She stated that, although
they rented one farm and later bought but never paid for
another, they hadn't "done any farming much" and had
"just had little patches," and that she and hired hands had
been responsible even for this limited enterprise. Dr.
Land testified that the mental disorder had gradually
progressed since the war.
'The trial judge instructed the jury: "All of this ,evidence as to his
condition in later years, however, is to be considered by you for the
purpose of determining whether the insured became in fact permanently and totally disabled on or before April 2, 1919, or before August,

eptember, or October, 1920,"

HALLIDAY v. UNITED STATES.
94

Opinion of the Court.

The reports of government medical examiners and the
records of government hospitals reveal a diagnosis of
hypochondria on February 14, 1921. And on November
24, 1925 petitioner was found to be psychoneurotic and
neurasthenic. On that date, he informed the medical
examiner that he was unable to work, that he lacked confidence, and that he was often depressed and seized by fear.
He complained of "a great many things which physical
examination fails to reveal." Reports of subsequent examinations up to and including April 11, 1935, contain
similar information and diagnoses. Finally on December
9, 1935, at the instance of Dr. Land, petitioner was adjudged incompetent by a county probate court and his
wife was appointed as a committee to handle his affairs.
In support of its conclusion, the Circuit Court of Appeals observed that "insured's failure to secure adequate
hospitalization" leaves it "highly speculative whether insured's ailments, whatever these may have been, would
not have been cured by the medical treatment which was
in his potential grasp." There can be no doubt that
evidence of the failure of attempted treatment would have
been highly persuasive of the permanence of petitioner's
disability. And the jury was entitled to draw inferences
unfavorable to his claim from the absence of such evidence. However, this was but one of the many factors
which the jury was free to consider in reaching its verdict.
In the face of evidence of a mental disorder of more than
15 years duration, it can hardly be said that the absence of
this single element of proof was fatal to petitioner's claim.
Moreover, inferences from failure to seek hospitalization
and treatment must be drawn with the utmost caution in
cases of mental disorder, where, as here, there is reason
to believe that one of the manifestations of the very
sickness itself is fear and suspicion of hospitals and
institutions.
Although it was unnecessary to its disposition of the
case, the Circuit Court of Appeals considered and noted

OCTOBER TERM, 1041.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

its agreement with the Government's objection to the District Court's refusal to admit evidence of petitioner's
condition subsequent to December 9, 1935, the date on
which petitioner was adjudged incompetent by the county
probate court." We think that the District Court's ruling
was erroneous, but there is nothing to show that it was
seriously prejudicial to the Government. Neither in the
District Court nor in this Court has the Government sug-.
gested its ability to produce evidence from the period
subsequent to 1935 which would substantially alter the
state of the record.
The case is remanded to permit the reinstatement of the
judgment of the District Court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SOUTHPORT PETROLEUM CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67.

Argued January 5, 1942.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. An application to the Circuit Court of Appeals, under ยง 10 (e)
of the National Labor Relations Act, for leave to adduce additional
evidence before the Board, is addressed to the sound discretion of
the Court. P. 104.

2. A Labor Board order required a Texas corporation, its officers,
agents, successors and assigns, to desist from certain unfair labor
practices; to offer reinstatement to employees found to have been
discriminatorily discharged; to grant them back pay; to post
certain notices at its Texas refinery, etc. Pending a petition of
the Board to enforce the order, the corporation applied to the
court under ยง 10 (e) of the. Act for leave to adduce additional
TThe

same ruling was embodied in the instructions to the jury.

