TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
Syllabus.

15

1935. Though fourteen months expired between that
date and the date of the hearing, there was no evidence
that any shipments were made to any locality in Arkansas
since June 1, 1935. No explanation of that long hiatus
was proffered. But § 206 (a) requires a finding of "bona
fide operation . . . within the territory'' not only "on
June 1, 1935" but also "since that time." We cannot say
that an unexplained failure to make any shipments to
Arkansas for over a year "since that time" satisfies the
statutory command, even though the nature of the highly
specialized transportation service involved be given the
greatest weight. Cf. United States v. Maher, supra. A
mere holding out will not alone suffice to bridge the long
gap extending through and beyond one entire automobile
production year, since applicant carries the burden of
establishing his right to the statutory grant.
We have considered the other points raised by appellant
railroad companies and find them without substance.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTcE ROBERTS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 70.

Argued December 15, 16, 1941.-Decided January 12, 1942.

1. Peonage is a form of involuntary servitude, within the meaning

of the Thirteenth Amendment; and the Act of Congress of March
2, 1867 is an appropriate implementation of that Amendment.
P. 29.
2. A state statute making it a crime for any person to contract with
another to perform services of any kind, and thereupon obtain in
advance money or other thing of value, with intent not to perform
such service; and providing further that failure to perform the
service or to return the money, without good and sufficient cause,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

shall be deemed presumptive evidence of intent, at the time of
making the contract, not to perform such service, held violative
of the Thirteenth Amendment and the Act of 1867. P. 29.
The necessary consequence of such statute is that one who has
received an advance on a contract for services which he is unable
to repay is bound by the threat of penal sanction to remain at his
employment until the debt has been discharged. Such coerced
labor is peonage.
191 Ga. 682, 13 S. E. 2d 647, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a conviction for violation of a state statute.

Messrs. Leonard Haas and Thomas Taylor Purdom for
appellant.
Mr. C. S. Baldwin, Jr., with whom Mr. Ellis Arnall, Attorney General of Georgia, was on the brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Fahy and Assistant Attorney General
Berge filed a memorandum on behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.

Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE BYRNES, announced by the CHrmF JUSTICE.
Appellant was indicted in the Superior Court of Wilkinson County, Georgia, for violation of § § 7408 and 7409, of
Title 26 of the Georgia Code. Section 7408 provides:
"Any person who shall contract with another to perform for him services of any kind, with intent to procure
money or other thing of value thereby, and not to perform
the service contracted for, to the loss and damage of the
hirer, or, after having so contracted, shall procure from
the hirer money, or other thing of value, with intent not
to perform such service, to the loss and damage of the

hirer, shall be deemed a common cheat and swindler, and
upon conviction shall be punished as for a misdemeanor."
And Section 7409 declares:
'Section 1065 of the Georgia Penal Code (Ga. Code (1933), Title
27, § 2506) prevides: "Except where otherwise provided, every crime

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.

27

Opinion of the Court.

25

"Satisfactory proof of the contract, the procuring
thereon of money or other thing of value, the failure to
perform the services so contracted for, or failure to return
the money so advanced with interest thereon at the time
said labor was to be performed,. without good and sufficient cause, and loss or damage to the hirer, shall be
deemed presumptive evidence of the intent referred to in
the preceding section." 2
The indictment alleged that appellant had entered into
a contract with R. L. Hardie to perform manual labor for
$1.25 a day until he had earned $19.50 at that rate,' that
he had done .so with the intent not to perform the services, that he had thus obtained the $19.50 as.an advance,
that he had failed without good, and sufficient cause to
do the work, that he had failed and refused to repay the
$19.50, and that loss and damage to Hardie had resulted.
Appellant demurred to the indictment, asserting that
§§ 7408 and 7409, upon,.which it was based, were repugnant'both to the Thirteenth Amendment and the Act of
Congress passed pursuant to it, and to. the due process
clause of the Fourteenth- Amendment. The demurrer
was overruled, exception was taken, and the case went
to trial.
Hardie was the only witness for the State. He testified
that the agreement had been made, that he had advanced
the $19.50, that appellant had neither done the work
declared to be a misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000, imprisonment not to exceed six months, to work in
the chain gang on the public roads, or on such other public works
as the county or State authorities may employ the chain gang, not
to exceed 12 months, any one or more of these punishments in the
discretion of the judge . .
2

."

These two sections were enacted as sections one and two of the
Act of August 15, 1903. Ga. Laws (1903) 90.
aThe Thirteenth Amendment reads: "Section 1. Neither slavery
nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

nor returned the money, and that although appellant had
said something about being sick, he had given no visible
sign of it and had not'been confined to bed. Under the
statutes of Georgia,' appellant could not testify under
oath, but he was permitted to make an unsworn statement
in which he generally denied that he and Hardie had made
the agreement or that Hardie had paid him the $19.50.
The trial judge charged the jury in the language of §§ 7408
and 7409. He refused to instruct the jury that these sections are repugnant to the Thirteenth and Fourteenth
Amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
The jury returned a verdict of guilty and judgment of
conviction was entered. Appellant moved for a new trial
on the ground that §§ 7408 and 7409 violated provisions
of both the federal and state Constitutions, and the
motion was denied. On appeal, the conviction was
affirmed by the Suprem Court of Georgia. 191 Ga. 682,
13 S. E. 2d 647.
the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
"Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this ArticlW by
-I
appropriate legislation."
U. S. C., Title 8, § 56, reads: "The holding of any person to service
or labor under the system known as peonage Is abolished and forever
prohibited in any Territory or State of the United States; and all
acts, laws, resolutions, orders, regulations, or usages of any Territory
or State, which have heretofore established, maintained, or enforced,
or by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter be made to establish,
maintain, or enforce, directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any
debt or obligation, or otherwise, are declared null and void."
U. S. C., Title 18, § 444, reads: "Whoever holds, arrests, returns,
or causes to be held, arrested, or. returned, or in any manner aids in
the arrest or return of any person to a condition of peonage, shall be
fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than five years,
or both."
'Georgia Code (1933), Title 38, §§ 415, 416.

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
25

Opinion of the Court.

We think the conviction must be reversed. There is
no material distinction between the Georgia statutes challenged here and the Alabama statute which was held to
violate the Thirteenth Amendment in Bailey v. Alabama,
219 U. S. 219.' It is argued here, just as it was in the
Bailey case, that the purpose of § 7408 is nothing more
than the punishment of a species' of fraud, namely, the
obtaining of money by a promise to perform services with
intent never to perform them. And the presumption
created by § 7409 is said to be merely a rule of evidence
for the trial of cases arising tinder § 7408. Actually, however, § 7409 embodies a substantive prohibition which
squarely contravenes the Thirteenth Amendment and the
Act of Congress of March 2, 1867.' Its effect is to authorize the jury to convict upon proof that an agreement has
been reached, that money has been advanced on the
strength of it, that the money has not been returned, that
the appellant has failed or refused to perform the services "without good and sufficient cause," and nothing
more. The necessary consequence is that one who has
received an advance on a contract for services which he
is unable to repay is bound by the threat of penal sanction.
to remain at his employment until the debt has been discharged. Such coerced labor is peonage. And it is no
less so because a presumed initial fraud rather than a subsequent breach of the employment contract is the asserted
target of the statute. It is of course clear that peonage
is a form of involuntary servitude within the meaning of
the Thirteenth Amendment and that the Act of 1867 is
an "appropriate" implementation of that Amendment.
Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207.
We are told that the manner in which these sections
have been interpreted by the courts of Georgia rescues
'And cf. State v. Oliva, 144 La. 51, 80 So. .195; Ex parte Hoilman,
.79 S. C.9, 60 S.E. 19.
'See note 3, supra.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

them from invalidity. It is urged that the phrase "without good and sufficient cause," which appears in § 7409,
in effect requires proof of fraudulent intent at the time
of making the contract and obtaining the money. But
this argument is wide of the mark. The words "without
good and sufficient cause" plainly refer to the failure to
perform the services or to return the money advanced.
Since the subsequent breach of the contract by the defendant, however capricious or reprehensible, does not establish a fraudulent intent at the initial stage of the transaction, the content which has been assigned to the phrase
"without good and sufficient cause" by the Georgia courts
is immaterial. See Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. at 233234.
Moreover, as the Court observed in the Bailey case, "the
controlling construction of the statute is the affirmance
of this judgment of conviction." 219 U. S. at 235. The
most that the jury could have found in the evidence here
was proof that the contract had been made, that $19.50 had
been advanced, that the appellant had failed to do the
work or to return the money, and perhaps that this failure had been "without good and sufficient cause." The
presumption created by § 7409 was thus essential to the
conviction.
It is true that it appears from the record that the
Supreme Court of Georgia regarded it as unnecessary to
determine the sufficiency of the evidence to support the
verdit because "the defendant relies solely on constitutional grounds." And it is also true that it appears from
the record that in his brief in that court the appellant
stated: "Inasmuch as the defendant in seeking to set aside
his conviction relies solely on constitutional grounds, the
evidence set out in the record is material only in so far as
it relates to these grounds." However, the only possible
construction of this statement, in the light of appellant's
consistent attack upon the presumption created by § 7409,

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

25

is that appellant agreed to waive any contention that the
evidence was insufficient to establish the factors declared
by that section to warrant the presumption of an initial
intent to defraud. He cannot fairly be said to have conceded more. Consequently, the Georgia Supreme Court
could not escape the necessity of passing upon the validity
of the presumption raised by § 7409 in order to sustain the
conviction.
We are aware that in Wilson v. State, 138 Ga. 489, 75
S. E. 619, the Supreme Court of Georgia held that Bailey
v. Alabama does not require the invalidation of these sections. Its error in so doing arose from a misconception
of the scope of the Bailey decision. To be sure, a judicially created rule in Alabama denied to a defendant the
opportunity to make any kind of statement as to his uncomnunicated motives, and this circumstance drew the
notice of the Court. 219 U. S. at 228, 236. In Georgia,
on the other hand, a defendant is permitted to make an
unsworn statement if he chooses. But the opinion in the
Bailey case leaves no doubt that this factor was far from
controlling and that its effect was simply to accentuate
the harshness of an otherwise invalid statute.
We think that the sections of the Georgia Code upon
which this conviction rests are repugnant to the Thirteenth Amendment and to the Act of 1867, and that the
conviction must therefore be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS

case.

took no part in the decision of this

