722

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

CARPENTERS & JOINERS UNION OF AMERICA,

LOCAL NO. 213,

ET AL.

v. RITTER'S CAFE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FIRST
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF TEXAS.

No. 527. Argued January 13, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.
1. The freedom of speech guaranteed by the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is not infringed by a decree of a state
court enjoining, as a violation of the state anti-trust law, the picketing of a restaurant by union carpenters and painters having no
grievance against its owner other than that he had contracted for
the construction of a building not connected with the restaurant
business, and a mile-and-a-half away, with a contractor who employed
non-union labor. P. 726.
2. This Court is not concerned with the wisdom of the policy underlying state laws, but with their constitutional validity. P. 728.
149 S. W. 2d 694, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S.595, to review a decree affirming
an order enjoining petitioners fronm certain picketing.
The highest court of the State refused a writ of error.

Messrs. Sewall Myer and Joseph A. Padway argued the
cause, and Mr. Myer was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Bernard A. Golding, with whom Mr. William A.
Vinson was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The facts of this case are simple. Ritter, the respondent, made an agreement with a contractor named Plaster
for the construction of a building at 2810 Broadway, Houston, Texas. The contract gave Plaster the right to make
his owp arrangements regarding the employment of labor
in the construction of the building. He employed nonunion carpenters and painters. The respondent was also

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

723

Opinion of the Court.

the owner of Ritter's Cafe, a restaurant at 418 Broadway, a
mile and a half away. So far as-the record discloses, the
new building waswholly unconnected with the business of
Ritter's Cafe. All of the restaurant employees were members of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees International
Alliance, Local 808. As to their restaurant work, there was
no controversy between Ritter and his employees or their
union. Nor did the carpenters' and painters' unions, the
petitioners here, have any quarrel with Ritter over his
operation of the restaurant. No construction work of any
kind was performed at the restaurant, and no carpenters
or painters were employed there.
But because Plaster employed non-union labor, members of the carpenters' and painters' unions began to picket
Ritter's Cafe immediately after the construction got under way. Walking back and forth in front of the restaurant, a picket carried a placard which read: "This Place is
Unfair to Carpenters and Joiners Union of America, Local
No. 213, and Painters Local No. 130, Affiliated with American Federation of Labor." Later on, the wording was
changed as follows: "The Owner of This Cafe Has
Awarded a Contract to Erect a Building to W. A. Plaster
Who is Unfair to the Carpenters Union 213 and Painter
Union 130, Affiliated With the American Federation of
Labor." According to the undisputed finding of the Texas
courts, which is controlling here, Ritter's Cafe was picketed
"for the avowed purpose of forcing and compelling plaintiff [Ritter] to require the said contractor, Plaster, to use
and employ only members of the defendant unions on the
building under construction in the 2800 block on Broadway." Contemporaneously with this picketing, the restaurant workers' union, Local No. 808, called Ritter's employees out on strike and withdrew the union card from his
establishment. Union truck drivers refused to cross the
picket line to deliver food and other supplies to the res-

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

taurant. The effect of all this was "to prevent members
of all trades-unions from patronizing plaintiff's cafe and
to erect a barrier around plaintiff's cafe, across which no
member of defendant-unions or an affiliate will go." A
curtailment of sixty per cent of Ritter's business resulted.
Holding the petitioners' activities to constitute a violation of the state anti-trust law, Texas Penal Code, Art. 1632
et seq., the Texas Court of Civil Appeals enjoined them
from picketing Ritter's Cafe. The decree forbade neither
picketing elsewhere (including the building under construction by Plaster) nor communication of the facts of
the dispute by any means other than the picketing of
Ritter's restaurant. 149 S. W. 2d 694. We brought the
case here to consider the claim that the decree of the Court
of Civil Appeals (the Supreme Court of Texas having
refused a writ of error) infringed the freedom of speech
guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 314 U. S. 595.
The economic contest between employer and employee
has never concerned merely the immediate disputants.
The clash of such conflicting interests inevitably implicates the well-being of the community. Society has
therefore been compelled to throw its weight into the contest. The law has undertaken to balance the effort of the
employer to carry on his business free from the interference of others against the effort of labor to further its
economic self-interest. And every intervention of government in this struggle has in some respect abridged the
freedom of action of one or the other or both.
The task of mediating between these competing interests
has, until recently, been left largely to judicial lawmaking
and not to legislation. "Courts were required, in the
absence of legislation, to determine what the public welfare demanded;-whether it would not be best subserved
by leaving the contestants free to resort to any means not

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

725

Opinion of the Court.

involving a breach of the peace or injury to tangible
property; whether it was consistent with the public interest that the contestants should be permitted to invoke the
aid of others not directly interested in the matter in controversy; and to what extent incidental injury to persons
not parties to the controversy should be held justifiable."
Mr. Justice Brandeis in Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312,
363. The right of the state to determine whether the
common interest is best served by imposing some restrictions upon the use of weapons for inflicting economic injury in the struggle of conflicting industrial forces has not
previously been doubted. See Mr. Justice Holmes in
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205, and Mr. Justice
Brandeis in Truax v. Corrigan, supra, at 372, Dorchy v.
Kansas, 272 U. S.306, 311, and Senn v. Tile Layers Protective Union, 301 U. S. 468, 481. But the petitioners
now claim that there is to be found in the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment a constitutional
command that peaceful picketing must be wholly immune
from regulation by the community in order to protect the
general interest, that the states must be powerless to confine the use of this industrial weapon within reasonable
bounds.
The constitutional right to communicate peaceably to
the public the facts of a legitimate dispute is not lost
merely because a labor dispute is involved, Thornhill v.
Alabama, 310 U. S.88, or because the communication takes
the form of picketing, even when the communication does
not concern a dispute between an employer and those directly employed by him. American Federationof Labor v.
Swing, 312 U. S.321. But the circumstance that a labor
dispute is the occasion of exercising freedom of expression
does not give that freedom any greater constitutional sanction or render it completely inviolable. Where, as here,
claims on behalf of free speech are met with claims on be-

726

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

half of the authority of the state to impose reasonable regulations for the protection of the community as a whole,
the duty of this Court is plain. Whenever state action is
challenged as a denial of "liberty," the question always is
whether the state has violated "the essential attributes of
that liberty." Mr. Chief Justice Hughes in Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 708. While the right of free speech is
embodied in the liberty safeguarded by the Due Process
Clause, that Clause postulates the authority of the states
to translate into law local, policies "to promote the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of its people. . . . The
limits of this sovereign power must always be determined
with appropriate regard to the particular subject of its
exercise." Ibid., at 707. "The boundary at which the
conflicting interests balance cannot be determined by any
general formula in advance, but points in the line, or helping to establish it, are fixed by decisions that this or that
concrete case falls on the nearer or farther side." Hudson
Water Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S. 349, 355.
In the circumstances of the case before us, Texas has
declared that its general welfare would not be served if,
in a controversy between a contractor and building
workers' unions, the unions were permitted to bring to bear
the full weight of familiar weapons of industrial combat
against a restaurant business, which, as a business, has no,
nexus with the building dispute but which happens to be
owned by a person who contracts with the builder. The
precise question is, therefore, whether the Fourteenth
Amendment prohibits Texas from. drawing this line in
confining the area of unrestricted industrial warfare.
Texas has undertaken to localize industrial conflict by
prohibiting the exertion of concerted pressure directed at
the business, wholly outside the economic context of the
real dispute, of a person whose relation to the dispute
arises from his business dealings with one of the dispu-

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

727

Opinion of the Court.

tants. The state has not attempted to outlaw whatever
psychological pressure may be involved in the mere
communication by an individual of the facts relating to
his differences with another. Nor are we confronted here
with a limitation upon speech in circumstances where
there exists an "interdependence of economic interest of
all engaged in the same industry," American Federation
of Labor v. Swing, 312 U. S. 321, 326. Compare Journeymen Tailors Union Local No. 195 v. Miller's, Inc., 312 U. S.
658, and Bakery & Pastry Drivers & Helpers Local No.802 v. Wohl, post, p. 769. The line drawn by Texas in
this case is not the line drawn by New York in the Wohl
case. The dispute there related to the conditions under
which bakery products were sold and delivered to retailers.
The business of the retailers was therefore directly
involved in the dispute. in picketing the retail establishments, the union members would only be following the
subject-matter of their dispute. Here we have a different
situation. The dispute concerns the labor conditions
surrounding the construction of a building by a contractor.
Texas has deemed it desirable to insulate from the dispute
an establishment which industrially has no connection
with the dispute. Texao has not attempted to protect
other business enterprises of the building contractor,
Plaster, who is the petitioners' real adversary. We need
not therefore consider problems that would arise if Texas
had undertaken to draw such a line.
It is true that by peaceful picketing workingmen communicate their grievances. As a means of communicating
the facts of a labor dispute, peaceful picketing may be
a phase of the constitutional right of free utterance. But
recognition of peaceful picketing as an exercise of free
speech does not imply that the states must be without
power to confine the sphere of communication to that
directly related to the dispute. Restriction of picketing

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

to the area of the industry within which a labor dispute
arises leaves open to the disputants other traditional
modes of communication. To deny to the states the
power to draw this line is to write into the Constitution
the notion that every instance of peaceful picketinganywhere and under any circumstances--is necessarily a
phase of the controversy which provoked the picketing.
Such a view of the Due Process Clause would compel the
states to allow the disputants in a particular industrial
episode to conscript neutrals having no relation to either
the dispute or the industry in which it arose.
In forbidding such conscription of neutrals, in the circumstances of the case before us, Texas represents the prevailing, and probably the unanimous, policy of the states.1
We hold that the Constitution does not forbid Texas to
draw the line which has been drawn here. To hold otherwise would be to transmute vital constitutional liberties
into doctrinaire dogma. We must be mindful that "the
rights of employers and employees to conduct their economic affairs and to compete with others for a share in
the products of industry are subject to modification or
qualification in the interests of the society in which they
exist. This is but an instance of the power of the State
to set the limits of permissible contest open to industrial combatants." Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88,
103-04.
It is not for us to assess the wisdom of the policy underlying the law of Texas. Our duty is at an end when we
find that the Fourteenth Amendment does not deny her
the power to enact that policy into law.
Affirmed.
'The authorities are collected in Teller, Labor Disputes and Collective Bargaining (1940), ยง 123; Hellerstein, Secondary Boycotts in Labor Disputes,.47 Yale L. J. 341; Frey, Cases on Labor Law (1941), pp.
239773; cf. Galenson and Spector, The New York Labor-Injunction
Statute and the Courts, 42 Col. L. Rev. 51, 68-71.

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE. 729
722

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE BLACx, dissenting, with whom MR.. JUSTICE
DouGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur.
The petitioners sought to convey to the public certain
information. The injunction here sustained imposed two
restraints on their doing so: (1) it enjoined them from
picketing the respondent's cafe; (2) it enjoined them from
c~arrying banners in front of the respondent's cafe, banners which contained inscriptions telling the public that
the respondent had awarded a building contract to a man
who was unfair to organized labor.
One member of the petitioner unions at & time peacefully walked in front of the respondent's cafe, carrying
such a banner. It is not contended that the inscriptions
were untruthful, nor that the language used was immoderate. There was no violence threatened or apprehended.
Passers-by were not molested. It is clear from the opinion of the Texas Court of Civil Appeals that the injunction
against picketing was granted not because of any law directly aimed at picketing-Texas has no statute against
picketing as such-nor to prevent violence, disorder,
breach of the peace, or congestion of the streets. The immediate purpose of the injunction was to frustrate the
union's objective of conveying information to that part of
the public which-came near the respondent's place of business, an objective which the court below decided was a violation of Texas antitrust laws. Conveying this truthful
information in the manner chosen by the union was calculated to, and did, injure the respondent's business. His
business was injured because many of those whom the information reached were sympathetic with the union side
of the controversy and declined to patronize the respondent's cafe or have any other business transactions with
him. Does injury of this kind to the respondent's business justify the Texas courts in thus restricting freedom of
expression?

730

OCTOBER TERM, 1941:
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

I am unable to agree that the controversy which
prompted the unions to give publicity to the facts was no
more than a private quarrel between the union and the
non-union contractor. Whether members or non-members of the building trades unions are employed is known
to depend to a large extent upon the attitude of building
contractors. Their attitude can be greatly influenced by
those with whom they do business. Disputes between one
or two unions and one contractor over the merits and justice of union as opposed to non-union systems of employment are but a part of the nationwide controversy over the
subject. I can see no reason why members of the public
should be deprived of any opportunity to get information
which might enable them to use their influence to tip the
scales in favor of the side they think is right.
If there had been any doubt before, I should have
thought that our decision in Thornhill v. Alabama, 310
U. S. 88, settled the question. There we said at pages 102104: "In the circumstances of our times the dissemination
of information concerning the facts of a labor dispute must
be regarded as within that area of free discussion that is
guaranteed by the Constitution. . .

Free discussion

concerning the conditions in industry and the causes of
labor disputes appears to us indispensable to the effective
and intelligent use of the processes of popular government
to shape the destiny of modern industrial society. The
issues raised by regulations, such as are challenged here,
infringing upon the right of employees effectively to inform the public of the facts of a labor dispute are part of
this larger problem. . .

It may be that effective exer-

cise of the means of advancing public knowledge may persuade some of those reached to refrain from entering into
advantageous relations with the. business establishment
which is the scene of the dispute. . .

But the group in

power at any moment may not impose penal sanctions on

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

731

BLACK, J. dissenting.

peaceful and truthful discussion of matters of public interest merely on a showing that others may thereby be persuaded to take action inconsistent with its interests."

Whatever injury the respondent suffered here resulted
from the peaceful and truthful statements made to the
public that he had employed a non-union contractor to
erect a building. This information, under the Thornhill
case, the petitioners were privileged to impart and the
public was entitled to receive. It is one thing for a state
to regulate the use of its streets and highways so as to keep
them open and available for movement of people arid
property, Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160; or to pass
general regulations as to their use in the interest of public
safety, peace, comfort, or convenience, Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 306-307; or to protect its citizens
from'violence and breaches of the peace by those who are
upon them, Thornhil v. Alabama, supra, 105. It is quite
thing, however, to "abridge the constitutional libanother
erty of one
rightfully upon the street to impart information through speech or the distribution of literature.

. .

Schneider v. State, supra, 160. The court below did not
rest the restraints imposed on these petitioners upon the
state's exercise of its permissible powers to regulate the
use of its streets or the conduct of those rightfully upon
them. Instead, it barred the petitioners from using the
streets to convey information to the public, because of the
particular type of information they wished to convey. In
so doing, it directly restricted the petitioners' rights to express themselves publicly concerning an issue which we
recognized in the Thornhill case to be of public importance. It imposed the restriction for the reason that the
public's response to such information would result in injury to a particular person's business, a reason which we
said in the Thornhill case was insufficient to justify curtailment of free expression.

732

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
REED,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

The injunction is defended, however, on the ground that
the petitioners have been prohibited from passing information to the public at only some, but not at all, places. It
may be that the petitioners axe left free to inform the public at other places or in other ways. Possibly they might,
at greater expense, reach the public over the radio or
through the newspapers, although, if the theory of the
court below be correct, it would seem that they could be
enjoined from using these means of communication, too,
to persuade people not to patronize the respondent's cife.
In any ev'ent, "one is not to have the exercise of his liberty
of expression in appropriate places abridged on the plea
that it may be exercised in some other place." Schneider
v. State, supra, 163.
Accepting the Constitutional prohibition against any
law "abridging the freedom of speech or of the press"-a
prohibition made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment-"as a command of the broadest scope
that explicit language, read in the context of a libertyloving society, will allow," Bridges v. California,314 U. S.
252, 263, I think the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED,dissenting:

The Texas court enjoined petitioners, a labor union of
carpenters and joiners, another union of painters, and all
of their members from picketing the restaurant of the respondent, E.R.Ritter, plaintiff below, doing business under the trade name of Ritter's Cafe, at 418 Broadway, in
Houston, "and from carrying banners peacefully and in
any. other manner upon the sidewalks in front" of the restaurant. There had been no Violence. Only two-pickets,
one from each union, walked back and forth, carrying
placards which before the injunction issued were modified
to read, "The Owner of This Cafe Has Awarded a Contract
to Erect a Building to W. A. Plaster Who is Unfair to the

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

RPMD,

733

J., dissenting.

Carpenters Union 213 and Painter Union 130, Affiliated
with the American Federation of Labor."
Plaster, a building contractor, was putting up a structure for respondent, Ritter, in the 2800 block of Broadway,
under a contract which did not require Plaster to employ
union labor. The record does not show whether or not this
new building is to be used in the restaurant business. He
was employing non-union workers. The restaurant, however, was unionized, its employees being members of Hotel
and Restaurant Employees' Local 808. They quit on the
day the picketing began; union drivers refused to deliver
supplies, and the business slumped sixty per cent. The
court found petitioners' conduct an invasion of respondents' right to conduct a legitimate business and an attempt
to interfere illegally with a contract with third parties.
The injunction was issued by the Texas court because
such invasion or attempt at invasion of the rights of a
business man was held "to create restrictions in the free
pursuit" of business, contrary to the Texas anti-trust laws.
Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. (Vernon, 1936) Arts. 7426, 7428; Tex.
Penal Code (Vernon, 1936) Arts. 1632, 1634, 1635. 149 S.
W. 2d 694. The petitioners' challenge to the validity of
the injunction is based on the constitutional right of free
speech, guaranteed them by the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. Schneider v.
State, 308 U. S.147, 160.
This challenge involves two particularly delicate relationships. These are that between the federal and state
governments, and that between a state and labor unions
within its borders. So far as the injunction depends upon
the action of the Texas court in construing its anti-trust
statutes to forbid such interference with the restaurant
business, the order is unassailable here. But if such an interpretation denies to Texans claimed rights guaranteed to
them by the federal Constitution, the state authority must

734

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
REED, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

accommodate its orders to preserve that right. Cf. InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; Lindsey v. Washington, 301 U. S. 397, 400; Minnesota v. Probate Court, 309 U. S. 270, 273.
Recent cases in this Court have sought to make more
definite the extent and limitations of the rights of Tree
speech in labor disputes. For some time, there has been
general acceptance of the fundamental right to publicize
"the facts of a labor dispute in a peaceful way through appropriate means." One of the recognized means is by orderly picketing with banners or placards. Thornhill v.
Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 104. In Carlson v. California,310
U. S. 106, 113, we said: "For the reasons set forth in our
opinion in Thornhil v. Alabama, supra, publicizing the
facts of a labor dispute in a peaceful way through appropriate means, whether by pamphlet, by word of mouth or
by banner, must now be regarded as within that liberty of
communication which is secu~ed to every person by the
Fourteenth Amendment against abridgment by a State."
The desire of both sides in labor controversies to gain advantages for themselves and limit similar opportunities for
their opponents has led each to seek to expand or contract
the constitutionally protected area for picketing operations as suits their respective purposes. Recognition of
the basic right to picket made the location of lines beyond
which picketing could not he employed an important
objective of those who suffer from its use.
In the Carlson and Thornhill cases, legislation forbidding picketing for the purpose of interfering with the business of another was invalidated because it was an unconstitutional prohibition of the worker's right to publicize
his situation. It was not thought of sufficient importance
in either case to mention in the opinion whether the picket
was an interested disputant with those picketed or an utter stranger to the controversy and the industry. In those

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

735

REEDn, J., dissenting.

carefully phrased decisions the possibility of state control
of socially menacing evils, flowing from industrial disputes, was recognized, but those general evils were not of
the kind, which were considered to warrant interference
with free speech by peaceful picketing.' We said:
"It is true that the rights of employers and employees to
conduct their economic affairs and to compete with others
for a share in the products of industry are subject to modification or qualification in the interests of the society in
which they exist. This is but an instance of the power of
the State to set the limits of permissible contest open to industrial combatants. See Mr. Justice Brandeis in 254
U. S. at 488. It does not follow that the State in dealing
with the evils arising from industrial disputes may impair
the effective exercise of the right to discuss freely industrial
relations which are matters of public concern. A contrary
conclusion could be used to support abridgment of freedom of speech and of the press concerning almost every
matter of importance to society."'
An instance of state control over peaceful picketing
soon appeared. In Drivers Union v. Meadowmoor Co.,
312 U. S.287, this Court, though not without dissent, upheld Illinois' ruling that, where "acts of picketing in themselves peaceful" are enmeshed in violence, immediate future peaceful picketing may be enjoined. This decision
compelled a less extreme result in Hotel & Restaurant
Employees' Alliance v. Wisconsin Employment Relations
Board, ante, p. 437. In the latter case, the order approved "forbids only violence" and "permits peaceful
picketing." Nothing more than the validity of prohibitions against violence was decided as to the constitutionality of the Wisconsin Employment Peace Act.
'Evidently the conception was that of "imminent and aggravated
danger," A. F. of L. v. Swing, 312 U. S. 321, 325.
'310 U. S. 88, 103-104.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
REED, J.,

dissenting.

315 U. S.

On the same day that Meadowmoor was handed down,
A. F. of L. v. Swing, 312 U. S. 321, was decided. In
Swing's case a union of beauty shop workers picketed a
beauty parlor. They were not and had not been employees of the establishment. We stated the issue thus:
"More thorpugh study of the record and full argument
have reduced the issue to this: is the constitutional guarantee of freedom of discussion infringed by the common
law policy of a state forbidding resort to peaceful persuasion through picketing merely because there is no immediate employer-employee dispute?" 3
There was nothing in the opinion to intimate that the
answer would have varied, if the union had been a local
of the teamsters or painters. The injunction granted by
Illinois was set aside with these words:
"Such a ban of free communication is inconsistent with
the guarantee of freedom of speech. That a state has ample power to regulate the local problems thrown up by
modern industry and to preserve the peace is axiomatic.
But not even these essential powers are unfettered by the
requirements of the Bill of Rights. The scope of the
Fourteenth Amendment is not confined by the notion of a
particular state regarding the wise limits of an injunction
in an industrial dispute, whether those limits be defined
by statute or by the judicial organ of the state. A state
cannot exclude workingmen from peacefully exercising
the right of free communication by drawing the circle of
economic competition between employers and workers so
small as to contain only an employer and those directly
employed by him. The interdependence of economic interest of all engaged in the same industry has become a
commonplace. American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City
Council,257 U. S. 184, 209. The right of free communication cannot therefore be mutilated by denying it to work- 312 U. S.321, 323.

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

737

IMD, J., dissenting.

ers, in a dispute with an employer, even though they are
not in his employ. Communication by such employees of
the facts of a dispute, deemed by them to be relevant to
their interests, can no more be barred because of concern
for the economic interests against which they are seeking
to enlist public opinion than could the utterance protected
in Thornhill'scase. 'Members of a union might, without
special statutory authorization by a State, make known
the facts of a labor dispute, for freedom of speech is guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.' Senn v. Tile Lagers
Union, 301 U. S. 468, 478." '
Today this Court decides Bakery & Pastry Drivers &
Helpers Local 802 v. Wohl, post, p. 769. In this case the
union picketed manufacturing bakers who sold to, and
threatened to picket grocers and retail bakers who bought
from, peddlers. The peddlers purchased bakery goods
and sold them to the trade. The labor controversy was
the effort of the unions to compel the peddlers to hire a
union driver one day a week. The state forbade the
picketing of the manufacturers and of the retailers, regardless of whether the picketing placards were directed
at the product or the general business of the retailersU
Although there is no possible labor relation between the
peddlers and their customers, or between the grocers and
retail bakers, and the union, we decline to permit New
York to take steps to protect the places of business of those
who dealt with the peddlers against picketing. It seems
obvious that the selling of baked products, distributed by
'312 U. S. 321, 325-326.
8

"It is hereby ordered ....

that the defendants,

....

are perpetu-

ally restrained and enjoined:
(a) From picketing the places of business of manufacturing bakers
who sell to the plaintiffs . . . because of the fact that said manufacturing bakers sell to these plaintiffs; and'
(b) From picketing the places of business of customers of these
plaintiffs because such customers purchase baked products from these
plaintiffs; . . . "

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
RiED, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

the peddlers, is a minor part of the grocery business.
Recent cases illustrate the present tendency of state courts
to permit workers outside the industry picketed to publicize their labor disputes with others.6 To permit the
Wohl injunction, without evidence of special embarrassment to peace and order, would, we hold, go beyond
permissible limitations'on free speech.
We are of the view that the right of free speech upheld in
these decisions requires Texas to permit the publicizing of
the dissatisfaction over Mr. Ritter's contract for his new
building. Until today, orderly, regulated picketing, has
been within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Such picketing was obviously disadvantageous to the business affected. In balancing social advantages it has been
felt that the preservation of free speech in labor disputes
was more important than the freedom of enterprise from
the burdens of the picket line. It was a limitation on
state power to 'deal as it pleased with labor disputes; a
limitation consented to by the state when it became a part
of the nation, and one of precisely the same quality as
those enforced in Carlson, Thornhill and Swing.
We are not here forced, as the Court assumes, to support
a constitutional interpretation that peaceful picketing
"must be wholly immune from regulation by the community in order to protect the general interest." We do not
doubt the right of the state to impose not only some but
many restrictions upon peaceful picketing. Reasonable
numbers, quietness, truthful placards, open ingress and
egress, suitable hours or other proper limitations, not
"People v. Harris, 104 Colo. 386, 91 P. 2d 989 (May, 1939); Byck
Bros. & Co. v. Martin, 4 C. C. H. Labor Cases 60,430 (Ky..Cir. Ct.,
March, 1941); Ellingsen v Milk Wagon Drivers' Union, 377111. 76,
35 N. E. 2d 349 (June, 1941); People v. Muller, 286 N. Y: 281, 36 N.
E. 2d 206 (July, 1941); Maywood Farms Co.v. Milk Wagon Drivers'
Union, 313 I1. App. 24, 38 N. E. 2d 972 (January, 1942); Mason &

Dixon Lines v. Odom, 18 S. E. 2d 841 (Ga., February, 1942).

CARPENTERS UNION v. RITTER'S CAFE.
722

739

REED, J., dissenting.

destructive of the right to tell of labor difficulties, may be
required. The Court limits its holding to the peculiar
circumstances of this case. All decisions necessarily are
so limited, but from the decisions rules are drawn. By
this decision a state rule is upheld which forbids peaceful
picketing of businesses by strangers to the business and
the industry of which it is a part. The legal kernel of the
Court's present decision is that the "sphere" of free speech
is confined to the "area of the industry within which a
labor dispute arises." This rule is applied, in this case,
even though the picketers are publicizing a labor dispute
arising from a contract to which the sole owner of the
business picketed is a party. Even if the construction
contract covered an attached addition to the restaurant,
the Court's opinion would not permit picketing directed
against the restaurant. To construe this Texas decision
as within state powers and the Wohl decision as outside
their boundaries, plainly discloses the inadequacy of the
test presumably employed, that is, the supposed lack of
economic "interdependence" between the picketers and
the picketed.
The philosophy behind the conclusion of the Court in
this case gives to a state the right to bar from picket lines
workers who are not a part of the industry picketed. We
are not told whether the test of eligibility to picket is to be
applied by crafts or enterprises, or how we are to determine
economic interdependence or the boundaries of particular
industries. Such differentiations are yet to be considered.
The decision withdraws federal constitutional protection
from the freedom of workers outside an industry to state
their side of a labor controversy by picketing. So long as
civil government is able to function normally for the protection of its citizens, such a limitation upon free speech is
unwarranted.

