CRANCER v. LOWDEN.
Counsel for Parties.

CRANCER

ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS

VALLEY STEEL

PRODUCTS CO. ET AL. v. LOWDEN ET AL., TRUS-

TEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 505. Argued March 3, 4, 1942.-Decided March 16, 1942.
1. In an action by a carrier to recover the difference between the
charges collected on a shipment and the charges which should have
been collected under the tariff, where the question is merely whether
the goods were of such character as to come within one tariff
category, allowing the rate paid by the shipper, or another category
exacting a higher rate, an opinion of the Interstate Commerce Commission on the same question of classification in another case may
properly be admitted by the District Court as evidence of the meaning and application of the tariff. P. 634.
2. In such an action it is not incumbent upon the court to await the
outcome of a proceeding before the Commission between the same
parties putting in question the reasonableness of the rates charged
but not the classification of the goods. P. 635.
3. A shipper who is obliged in an action by the carrier to pay charges
which conform to the tariff but are unreasonable has the remedy
of reparation if the Interstate Commerce Commission finds the rate
unreasonable and requires that the tariff be modfied accordingly.
P. 636.
121 F. 2d 645, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 595, to review the affirmance of a
judgment recovered by the respondents against the petitioners in an action based on undercharges for transportation of freight by a railway.
Mr. Irl B. Rosenblum, with whom Mr. Abraham B. Frey
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Hale Houts, with whom Mr. William. S. Hogsett
was on the brief, for respondents.

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BYRNES

315 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In the District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri respondents brought this suit to recover certain
freight charges from petitioners. The case was tried
without a jury and judgment rendered in favor of respondents in the sum of $2,263.47. On appeal, the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit. 121 F. 2d 645.
We brought the case here because of the claim that
the courts below sustained the jurisdiction of the District
Court although the matter concerned called for the exercise of the administrative discretion of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, under the established rule first
announced in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, as explained in Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285.
The shipments, amounting to seven carloads, moved
from points in several states, the cars being billed by
petitioners to themselves at St. Louis, Missouri. The
petitioners billed the contents of the cars as scrap iron
and paid the tariff charge applicable to that classification.
When the cars arrived at St. Louis, the respondents
.caused the Western Weighing and Inspection Bureau to
inspect their contents. As a result of that inspection,
respondents claimed that the articles were actually "pipe
thread protecting rings" and that they belonged in the
classification of "pipe fittings." The tariff rates on pipe
4ttings being higher than the rate on scrap iron, demand
was made upon petitioners for the difference in freight
charges. The demand was refused and this suit followed.
The trial court found that the articles in question were
governed, by the tariff for "pipe fittings" and not by that
for "scrap iron." The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained this finding. In the light of certain proceedings

CRANCER v. LOWDEN.
631

Opinion of the Court.

before the Interstate Commerce Commission, affecting
the articles in question and their relation to the tariffs
in controversy, we hold that the lower courts were
right.
The only questions of any moment presented by this
case arise in'
connection with these proceedings before the
Interstate Commerce Commission. In 1937, petitioners
filed with the Commission a complaint against a number of railroads, in which they asserted that certain shipments of iron or steel pipe thread protecting rings should
have been classified under the freight tariffs as scrap
iron or steel and not as pipe fittings. They also urged,
as an alternative contention, that even thqugh the shipments were classed as pipe fittings rather than scrap, the
rate was unreasonably high. On August 6,1937, the Commission dismissed the complaint, holding both that the
pipe thread protecting rings fell within the classification
of pipe fittings and that the rates so imposed were not
unreasonable.
Crancer & Fleischman v. Abilene and
Southern Ry. Co., 223 I. C. C. 375.
In their answer and in a motionto stay proceedings filed
in the District Court in the present case, petitioners asserted that, on or about March 16, 1939 (the date on which
respondents brought this suit), they had instituted a
second action before the Commission. In their complaint
in this 1939 action, petitioners alleged that the freight
charges demanded by the respondents on the shipments involved in the suit now before us were "unjust and unreasonable . . . to the extent that they exceeded or exceed
rates applicable on scrap iron and scrap steel." It is not
clear from this language whether petitioners intended to
raise anew the question of classification, or whether they
were simply requesting the Commission to pass agaii, on
the reasonableness of the rate. But in its opinion dated
February 18, 1941, the Commission stated: "While com--

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

plainants admit for the purpose of this proceeding that
the rates on scrap iron are not applicable, they contend
that reasonable rates ou thread protectors should bear
some definite relation to the scrap-iron rates." Valley
Steel Products Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 243
I. C. C. 509, 512. We conclude that the classification
question is not involved in the 1939 I. C. C. proceeding.
This proceeding is still pending. The effective date of the
February 18, 1941 opinion and order has been indefinitely
postponed, a further hearing has been held, but no subsequent opinion or order has been issued.'
Petitioners raise two contentions with respect to these
I. C. C. proceedings and their bearing upon the present
suit. First, they contend that it was reversible error for
the District Court to admit in evidence a copy of the 1937
opinion of the Commission. At the trial, petitioners objected to its admission on the ground that the opinion has
"absolutely no probative value in this case at all," that it
is not "determinative" or "conclusive" and "not even persuasive ' in this case, and that there was ito pleading that
"this opinion . . . is res adjudicata of the issues before
your Honor." With respect to this point, we can only say
that, petitioners have made a bold attempt to transform
their weakness into strength. The present case turns
up6n whether these iron pipe thread protecting rings are
to be classified under the freight tariffs as pipe fittings or
scrap. That was the very question decided by the Commission in its 1937 opinion, and it was decided adversely
to petitioners. It is true that the shipments in the two
cases are not the same and that no evidence was introduced to prove that their contents were identical.
1

Order of the Commission in No. 28215, dated April 19, 1941;

Order in No. 28215, dated May 23, 1941; Order in No. 28215, dated
June 2, 1941; Order in No. 28215, dated June 20, 1941; Order in No..
"28215, dated July 22, 1941.

CRANCER v. LOWDEN.
631

635

Opinion of the Court.

Consequently, the issues in the present suit are not res
adjudicata. But the Commission's 1937 opinion could
hardly have been more relevant to the question before
the District Court. As the Circuit Court observed:
"Since the case was tried without a jury, we can see no
possible prejudice to appellants by the consideration of
the opinion of the Commission by the Court as evidence,
rather than by an examination of the same opinion in
his library. There is no suggestion thatthe latter course
would have been improper. The trial court did not treat
the opinion as being res adjudicata." 121 F. 2d 645, 650.
We think this is the least that could be said, and that the
District Court properly admitted and considered the administrative determination of virtually the same question
as that before it.
Second, petitioners contend that the District Court
erred in denying their motion to stay proceedings in this
case pending action by the I. C. C. in the second proceeding before the Commission. As we have said, the classification question alone was involved in the case before
the District Court. The Commission had passed upon
that question almost two years earlier. In their newly
instituted proceeding, petitioners did not resurrect that
dispute but confined themselves to the contention that
the rates on pipe fittings were unreasonable as applied
to their pipe thread protecting rings. The issue of the
reasonableness of the rates was not open to the District
Court. The meaning of the tariff had been determined
by the Commission. It remained to the railroad only
to collect the rates for which the tariff called and for the
District Court only to see that the railroad did collect
them. "Until changed, tariffs bind both carriers and
shippers with the force of law. Under ยง 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act the carrier cannot deviate from the
rate specified in the tariff for any service in connection

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

with the transportation of property. That section forbids the carrier from giving a voluntary rebate in any
shape or form. This Court has had occasion recently to
sustain action of the Commission aimed at carriers' practices resulting in collection of less than the tariff rate.
it is equally important to aid the efforts of a carrier in
collecting published charges in full. Involuntary rebates
from tariff rates should bs viewed with the same disapproval as voluntary rebates." Lowden v. SimondsShields-Lonsdale Grain Co., 306 U. S. 516, 520, 521.
Nothing involved in the pending administrative proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission was
essential to the determination of the issue in this suit.
If the trial judge had, in the exercise of his discretion,
continued the trial of the cause until such time as the
Commission had passed upon the reasonableness of the
rate, the delay might have made it impossible for the
carrier to produce the witnesses who had made the inspection of the shipments. On the other hand, the petitioners suffered no hardship as a result of the trial court's
insistence on proceeding with the trial. If petitioners
pay the judgment in this case, and the Commission
should, in the still pending proceeding, decide to modify
the tariffs, petitioners can obtain a complete remedy by
way of reparation. PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. International
'Coal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184, 197. The form of the
Circ;,it Court's judgment specifically preserved petitioners' right to such reparation. We hold that under the
circumstances there was no abuse of discretion by the
trial judge.
Judgment affirmed.

