MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. BEELER.

649

Statement of the Case.

MEMPHIS NATURAL GAS CO. v. BEELER,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF TENNESSEE, r

AL.

APPEAL ]FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 499. Argued March 6, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. An attack upon a state tax upon the ground that it infringes a
taxpayer's federal rights, privileges and immunities, but without
drawing in question the validity of a state statute, will not sustain
an appeal under Jud. Code § 237 (a). P. 650.
2. A challenge of the validity of a state statute, first made in a brief
filed in the highest state court and certified to this Court as part
of the record, will not support an appeal to this Court from a judgment of thu state court upholding the statute, if the appellant fails
to show that under the state practice such a contention can be availed
of when advanced for the first time in the appellate court. P. 651.
3. A corporation is subject to be taxed on its intangible property by
a State, not of its origin, in which it has its commercial domicile,
if the tax does not infringe the commerce clause. P. 652.
4. A decision of the state supreme court based upon a non-federal
ground is re-examinable by this Court only to make certain that the
ground is not so colorable or unsubstantial as to be in effect an
evasion of a constitutional issue. P. 655.
5. Natural gas was piped into a State by a pipeline corporation, delivered to a local distributing corporation and sold by the latter to
local consumers, under an arrargement making the two companies
partners or joint enterprises sharing the profits. Held, that it was
tompetent for the State to levy a tax on the pipeline company
measured by the net profits it so derived. P. 655.
6. A non-discriminatory state tax upon the net income of a foreign
corporation engaged solely in interstate commerce is not forbidden
by the commerce clause when the corporation is commercially
domiciled in the taxing State and the income is derived from within
the State and attributable to business done there. P. 656.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, which sustained a tax and reversed a decrec
of the Tennessee Chancery Court enjoining its collection.
The appeal was dismissed for want of jurisdiction but
the writ of certiorari was granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Mr. Walter P. Armstrong, with whom Mr. T. A. McEachern,Jr. was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Whitworth Stokes and Lewis S. Pope, with
whom Messrs. Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General of Tennessee, and W. F. Barry, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question for decisionis whether a tax laid pursuant
to §§ 1316-1318 of the Tennessee Code of 1932 upon the
Memphis Natural Gas Company's net income derived
from sales of natural gas in Tennessee, during the years
1932 to 1935, violates the commerce clause.
The case comes here by appeal from a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Tenngssee, which sustained the tax and
reversed a decree of the Tennessee chancery court enjoining its collection. Appellant contends that the case is
properly an appeal, under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), because the validity of
the Tennessee statute as applied to the facts of this case
has been drawn in question. Cf. Dahnke-Walker Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282. But appellant's bill of cornplaint, filed in the chancery court, alleged only that the
assessment of the tax and the threatened levy violated its
rights under the commerce clause. Our decisions have
long since established that an attack upon a tax assessment or levy, on the ground that it infringes a taxpayer's
federal rights, privileges or immunities, will not sustain
an appeal under § 237 (a). Jett Bros. DistillingCo. v. City
of Carrollton,252 U. S. 1; Miller v. City of Denver, 290
U. S. 586; BaltimoreNationalBank v. State Tax Comm'n,
296 U. S. 538; Irvine v. Spaeth, 314 U. S. 575. It is not
enough that an appellant could have launched his attack
upon the validity of the statute itself as applied; if haha&

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. BEELER.
649

Opinion of the Court.

failed to do so we are without jurisdiction over the appeal.
The Judicial Code was intended to restrict our obligatory
appellate jurisdiction to a narrow class of cases, and to
foreclose an appeal as of right whenever the prescribed
conditions have not been rigorously fulfilled.
It is true that when this case reached the Supreme Court
of Tennessee the appellant included in its brief, which has
been certified as part of the record here, a statement of its
legal position which might serve as a challenge to the
validity of the statute. But appellant has failed to establish that under Tennessee practice such a contention can
be availed of if advanced for the first time in the appellate
court, cf. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Illinois Brick Co., 297
U. S. 447, 462-63; Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133, 13536; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, and
appellant's burden is to show affirmatively that we have
jurisdiction. Chicago, I. & L. Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 196
U. S. 128, 132; cf. Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52, 54-55;
Enriquez v. Enriquez (No. 2), 222 U. S. 127, 130; Brady v.
Terminal RailroadAssn., 302 U. S. 678.
The first opinion rendered by the Supreme Court of
Tennessee made no mention of any federal question, and
in a supplemental opinion the court stated only that "the
claim of federally protected right was decided adversely
to complainant." Since it does not appear that the
validity of the statute was either drawn in question or
passed upon in the trial court or deemed by the state
supreme court to be in issue, we must dismiss the appeal
for want of jurisdiction. Treating the papers .on which
the appeal was allowed as a petition for writ of certiorari,
as required by § 237(c) of the Judicial Code as amended,
28 U. S. C. § 344(c), certiorari isgranted, and we proceed
to consider the merits of the case.
Taxpayer, a Delaware corporation, was engaged during
the period in question in the business of purchasing natural gas in Louisiana and transporting it through its

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

pipeline to points in Tennessee where it delivered the gas
into the pipelines of two distributing companies-Memphis Power & Light Co. and West Tennessee Power &
Light Co.-which sold the gas to local consumers. Taxpayer sells some of its gas in other states, but in
Tennessee it sells from 1 to 2% of its output to the West
Tennessee Power & Light Co. and delivers 80% or more to
the Memphis company. That company distributes it to
consumers under a contract with taxpayer which the
Supreme Court of Tennessee has found to be a joint
undertaking of the two companies whereby taxpayer
furnishes gas from its pipeline, the Memphis company
furnishes facilities and service for distribution and sale
to consumers, and the proceeds of the sale, after deduction
of specified costs and expenses, are divided between the
two companies.
Taxpayer is licensed by the State of Tennessee to do
business there. It maintains a statutory office in Dela*ware and a stock transfer office in New York City, but
conducts no business at either. It manages its business
from its office in Memphis, Tennessee, where it keeps its
accounts, provides for the payroll of employees on its
line in Tennessee and other states, and prepares and sends
out bills for gas delivered in Tennessee and other states.
It has thus established a commercial domicile in Tennessee
by virtue of which it is subject to taxation there upon its
intangibles, unless such taxation infringes the commerce
clause. Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193.
Section 1316 of the Tennessee Code of 1932 imposes on
all foreign and domestic corporations doing business for
profit in the state an annual excise tax of "three per cent. of
the net earnings for their preceding fiscal year . . . arizing
from business done wholly within the state, excluding
earnings arising from interstate commerce." The Supreme Court of Tennessee sustained the tax on the ground

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. BEELER.
649

Opinion of the Court.

that it was laid on appellant's net earnings from the
distribution of gas under its contract with the Memphis
company, which distribution it held not to be interstate
commerce within the meaning of the statute. It decided
that, by virtue of their contract, the companies became in
effect partners or joint enterprisers in the distribution
and sale of the gas to Tennessee consumers, the net earnings from which are taxable under the statute.
On petition for rehearing, taxpayer asked a modification of the decree on the ground that, included in the
measure of the tax were profits derived from sales of gas
to the West Tennessee Power &Light Co., and from certain
other sales to the Memphis company, not under the joint
adventure agreement, which it was insisted were concededly sales in interstate commerce. The court rejected
this contention upon the adequate state ground, not
challenged here, that taxpayer had failed to show what
portion, if any, of the taxed-profits was derived from such
sales and consequently had laid no basis for an injunction
restraining collection of that part of the tax.
This Court has often had occasion to rule that the retail
sale of gas at the burner tips by one who pipes the gas
into the state, or by a local distributor acquiring the gas
from another who has similarly brought it into the state,
is subject to state taxation and regulation. Public
Utilities Comm'n v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236; East Ohio
Gas Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S.465; Southern Gas
Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148, 154; cf. Missouri v.
Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S.298, 309; Illinois Natural Gas
Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service Co., 314 U. S.498.
It follows that if the Supreme Court of Tennessee correctly construed taxpayer's contract with the Memphis
company as establishing a profit-sharing joint adventure
in the distribution of gas to Tennessee consumers, the

'654

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

taxpayer's net earnings under the contract were subject to
local taxation.
The meaning and effect of the contract, so far as they
establish taxpayer's participation in and ownership of
profits derived from the retail sale of the gas, are local
questions conclusively settled by the decision of the state
court save only as this Court, in the performance of its
duty to safeguard an asserted constitutional right, may
inquire whether the decision of the state question rests
upon a fair or substantial basis. See Broad River Co.
v. South Carolina, 281 U. S. 537, and cases cited. We
examine the contract only to make certain that the
non-federal ground of decision is not so colorable or
unsubstantial as to be in effect an evasion of the constitutional issue.
The contract was entered into as a preliminary to the
award by the City of Memphis to the Memphis company
of its franchise to distribute gas to consumers, and execution of the contract was a condition of the grant of the
franchise. By the contract, the Memphis company undertook to establish its distribution system. Taxpayer
undertook to construct its pipeline with facilities, including measuring stations at a delivery point, for
supplying the Memphis company with a varying flow of
gas into the service pipes as and when required by the
Memphis company for consumer needs. The amount
so furnished, less certain deductions covered by a separate
contract not now material, was to be divided into five
classes, according to the use made of the gas by consumers,
and was to be billed by taxpayer to the Memphis company
at five different specified rates. The amount of gas
allocated to each class was to be in proportion to the
amount of that class of gas sold by the Memphis company
for like use during the preceding month.
At the end of each year the combined net surplus or
deficit of the two companies was to be divided between

MEMPHIS GAS CO. v. BEELER.
649

Opinion of the Court.

them by a cash settlement. The surplus or deficit of each
was to be arrived at by deducting from its gross revenues
the operating costs, costs of property restorations and
replacements, taxes, amortization of investment, and 6%
upon investment. After all net deficits of both parties
had been made up and the Memphis company had received from the combined net surpluses 1 % of its total
investment annually, any additional combined net income
was to be paid to or retained by taxpayer.
The contract provided for readjustment from time to
time of the billing price of the gas supplied by taxpayer,
so as to admit of reduction in the rates to consumers, after
first allowing "a reasonable return" on taxpayer's investment. The contract contains the usual provisions for
inspection of books by the parties and the city, and a
clause requiring all notices to be given to taxpayer at its
Memphis office.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee held that the city was
a party to the contract entitled to the benefits of its provisions for rate reductions. It held that the circumstance
that taxpayer and the Memphis company were designated
by the contract as "seller" and "buyer" did not alter or
obscure the fact that taxpayer was a participant in the
profits derived from the joint undertaking, and that the
precise time when the title to the gas passed, if it passed
before distribution to consumers, was immaterial. In
any case, it thought that the tentative amounts to be paid
by the Memphis company for the gas in the first instance
were to be determined after delivery by the use made of
it by consumers.
We cannot say that there is not a substantial basis for
the state court's conclusion that in substance the contract
called for the contribution of the services and facilities
of the companies to a joint enterprise, the taxpayer's
delivery of gas into the mains of the Memphis company
for distribution to consumers, and a division between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

two companies of the operating profits after providing
for certain agreed initial costs and expenses. Nor can
we say. that by this participation the taxpayer did not do
such a business in the state as to be taxable there, or that
the profits derived from it are not an appropriate
measure of the tax.
Taxpayer's contribution to the joint undertaking with
the Memphis company for the distribution of gas to local
consumers, and its activities at its Memphis general office
in supplying gas to be distributed for the joint account as
required by the Memphis company and in safeguarding
and securing payment of its share of the profits, went beyond the mere sale, to a distributor, of gas in interstate
commerce. It also constituted participation in the business of distributing the gas to consumers after its delivery
into the service pipes of the Memphis company. Cheney
Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts,246 U. S. 147, 155-56; Atlantic
Lumber Co. v. Commissioner, 298 U. S. 553; Southern Gas
Corp. v. Alabama, supra. Since it was competent for the
state to tax such business done within it, it was competent
to measure the tax by the net earnings of the business as
well as by the capital employed. See Southern Gas Cbrp.
v. Alabama, supra, 156-57.
In any case, even if taxpayer's business were wholly interstate commerce, a nondiscriminatory tax by Tennessee
upon the net income of a foreign corporation having a
commercial domicile there, cf. Wheeling Steel Corp. v.
Fox, supra, or upon net income derived from within the
state, Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 57; Wisconsin v. Minnesota Mining Co., 311 U. S. 452; cf. New York ex rel.
Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, is not prohibited by the
commerce clause on which alone taxpayer relies. U. S.
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113, 119-20; cf. Bass,
Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd. v. Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S. 271;

GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
Syllabus.

649

Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 255.
There is no contention or showing here that the tax
assessed is not upon net earnings justly attributable to
Tennessee. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,
supra; cf. Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd. v. Tax Comm'n,
supra;Butler Bros. v. McColgan, ante, p. 501. It does not
appear that upon any theory the tax can be deemed to infringe the commerce clause.
Appeal dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Certiorari
granted and judgment affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

GRAVES ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF NEW YORK, v. SCHMIDLAPP
ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF THE COUNTY. OF
NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 604.

Argued March 12, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment did not preclude the State of New York from taxing the effective exercise, by
the will of a domiciled resident, of a general powei of appointment

of which he was the donee under the will of a resident of Massachusetts, the property, appointed being intangibles held by trustees
under the donor's will. Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v, Doughton,
272 U. S.Z567, overruled. Pp. 660, 665.

2. Control by the State of the donee's domicile over his person and
estate and his duty to'contribute to the support of government there,
afford adequate constitutional basis for the imposition of a tax.
P. 660.

The donee of the power the exercise of which was taxed was also
one of the trustees named by the Massachusetts will; and the paper
evidences of the intangibles, which consisted wholly of receivables

