126

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

Co-operative, supra,307 U. S. at 568. We adhere to that
opinion now.
The judgment will be reversed, but, as errors assigned
below have not been passed on there or argued here, the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
The mandate will issue forthwith.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS
or decision of this case.

took no part'in the consideration

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE PATENTS
CORPORATION.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 154. Argued January 15, 16, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.
1. In a case involving a patent concerning which there was no conflict of decisions by Circuit Courts of Appeals, certiorari was granted
because of the nature of the questions involved, and because
it was shown that the industry affected by a decision sustaining the
patentee's contentions was located in a single circuit so that litigation
resulting in such conflicts would not be likely to occur.' P. 128.
2. Claim 4, as amended, of the Nelson patent, No. 2,109,678, relates
to the structure of a resilient switch or circuit closer, so disposed on
the board of a game table as to serve as a target which, when struck
by a freely rolling ball, will momentarily close an electrical circuit.
It claims as elements .of the invention a conductor standard
anchored to the table, a coil spring surrounding the standard, means
carry ng the spring pendantly from the upper portion of the standard,
with the coils of the spring spaced from the standard, "and con-

ductor means in said circuit and embedded in the table at a point
Together with No. 155, Genco, Inc. v. Ace Patents Corporation,

and No. 156, Chicago Coin Machine Co. v. Ace Patents Corporation,
also on writs of certiorari, 314 U. S. 702, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Cireuit.

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

127

Opinion of the Court.

spaced from the standard and engageable by a portion of the
spring when it is flexed to close the aforementioned circuit." Held:
(1) The word "embedded" as used in the claim embraces any
conductor means solidly set or firmly fixed in the table, whether or
not it protrudes above or below the surface. P. 135.
(2) By amendment of the claim so as to describe the conductor
means as "embedded in the table," instead of "carried by the table,"
as it stood before amendment, devices in which the conductor means
is a nail or pin driven into the table were not excluded. P. 135.
(3) By such amendment, however, made to meet objections of
the Patent Office based on the prior art, the patentee restricted the
claim to those combinations in which the conductor means, though
carried on the table, is also embedded in it; recognized and emphasized the difference between the two phrases, and proclaimed his
abandonment of all that is embraced in that difference. P. 136.
(4) The amendment operates as a disclaimer of that difference
and must be strictly construed against him. P. 137.
(5) What the patentee, by a strict construction of his claim,
has lost by disclaimer can not be regained by recourse to the doctrine
of equivalents. P. 137.
119 F. 2d 349, modified.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 702, in three cases, to review the
affirmance of decrees holding a patent claim valid and
infringed and enjoining the alleged infringements.
Mr. John H. Sutherland, with whom Mr. Clarence E.
Threedy was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Casper W. Oons, with whom Mr. John A. Russell
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Respondent began the present litigation as three
separate suits against the respective petitioners for infringement of the Nelson Patent No. 2,109,678 of March
1, 1938, for a "contact switch for ball rolling games."
The defenses were non-invention in view of the prior art,
anticipation by prior publication, use and sale, non-in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

fringement and a file wrapper estoppel. The three suits
were consolidated and tried together. Upon full consideration of the issues the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit held Claim
4 of the patent valid and infringed. 119 F. 2d 349.
We granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 702, on a petition which
challenged only the decree of infringement below, on the
ground that it enlarged the scope of the patent as defined
by the claim, by resort to the doctrine of equivalents, and
that Nelson, the patentee, by the amendment of his
claims in the Patent Office, had surrendered Claim 4 so
far as it would otherwise read upon the alleged infringing devices. Neither in their petition nor in their brief
and argument in this. Court have petitioners contended
that the patent is invalid for want of invention. Although there is no conflict of decision, we were moved to
grant the petition by the nature of the questions presented, together with a showing that the industry
affected by the patent is located in the seventh circuit
so that litigation in other circuits resulting in a conflict
of decision would not be likely to occur.
The patent relates to the structure of a resilient switch
or circuit closer, so disposed on the board of a game table
as to serve as a target which, when struck by a freely
rolling ball, will momentarily close an electrical circuit.
Specifications and drawings disclose a target or switch
comprising a conductor standard mounted in the table
and carrying a coil spring having a leg pendantly disposed in a conductor ring located in the table and slightly
offset from the standard. The standard and ring are
wired in a circuit with a relay coil and a source of electrical energy. When a ballrolling on the table bumps
the coil spring from any direction, the leg of the spring
is deflected momentarily bringing it into contact with
the ring, so as to close the circuit for operating the relay
coil and any connected auxiliary game device. Any de-

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

129

Opinion of the Court.

sired number of targets may be placed on the board in a
suitably spaced relationship; in pin ball games a single
ball may successively bump and close a number of the
switch devices. In describing his invention the patentee
declared it to be his intention "to cover all changes and
modifications of the example of the invention herein
chosen for purposes of the disclosure, which do not constitute departures from the spirit and scope of the invention."
The prior art as disclosed by the record shows no device in which the coil spring serves both as a target and
a switch. The advantages of the device are said to be
that the combination is peculiarly adapted to use in pin
ball games; that the coil spring structure is so organized
as to form both a switch for operating auxiliary recording or signalling devices and a target which is accessible
from any direction.
Claim 41 claims as the elements of the invention the
conductor standard anchored in the table, the coil spring
surrounding the standard which carries the spring pendantly from its top, with the spring spaced from the
standard to enable the spring to be resiliently flexed,
"and conductor means in said circuit and embedded in
"4. In a ball rolling game having a substantially horizontal table
over which balls are rollable, the combination with 'said table of a
substantially vertical standard anchored in said table with its lower
end carrying on the underside of the table a lead for an electric
circuit and its upper end extending a substantial distance above
the top surface of the table, a coil spring surrounding the standard,
means carrying said spring pendantly from the upper portion of the
standard above the table with the coils of the spring spaced from
the standard to enable the spring to be resiliently 'flexed when
bumped by a ball rolling on the table, said spring being in the aforementioned circuit and constituting a conductor, and conductor means
in said circuit and embedded in the table at a point spaced from
the standard and engageable by a pbrtion of the spring when it is
flexed to close the aforementioned circuit,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the table at a point spaced from the standard and engageable by a portion of the spring when it is flexed to
close the aforementioned circuit." The drawings of the
patent show the "conductor means" last mentioned in
the form of a ring or ferrule set in the table with its axis
at right angles to the table and with its flange projecting
slightly above the surface of the table. The leg pending
from the coil spring is so disposed at the center of the
annular ferrule that a ball striking the spring in any
direction will bring the pendant leg into contact with the
ring so as to close the circuit.
The six devices alleged to infringe the patent differ
from the particular claim of the invention described in
the specifications, only in the specific form and method
of supporting the "conductor means" which is "engageable by a portion of the spring when it is flexed." In
two of the accused devices, plaintiff's Exhibits 5 and 7,
there is substituted for the ring conductor set in the
table a nail or pin driven into the table and surrounded
near its upper end by a ring attached to the end of the
resilient coil spring, or formed there of the coil wire.
When the spring is struck the circuit is closed by the contact of ring and nail at a point above the table. This
arrangement contrasts with that of the, conductors as
shown in the patent drawings, in which a' ring set in the
table and the pendant leg Of the coil form the contact at
a point near or below the surface of the table. In the
one case, the ring conductor is supported by the table
and the complementary conductor is attached to, or is
formed of, the wire of the spring at its end. In the
other, the locations of the ring and of the complementary conductorare reversed.
Two others of the accused devices, plaintiff's Exhibits
6 and 10, show a further alteration. In Exhibit 6, the
nail or pin, instead of being driven directly into the
table, is affixed to and supported by a metal plate resting

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

131

Opinion of the Court.

on the upper surface of the table with the coil spring
standard passing through it and holding it firmly on
the table. The conductor extends to the wire connection through a hole in the table underneath the plate.
In Exhibit 10 the conductor is insulated from the plate,
which is rigidly anchored to the coil spring standard,
which in turn is anchored to the table.
In the remaining two accused devices, plaintiff's Exhibits 8 and 9, an insulating core or sleeve surrounds the
coil standard and supports an annular or enveloping conductor wired in the circuit, spaced and insulated from
the coil standard so that the circuit is closed by contact
of the conductor and the coil when it is flexed. In Exhibit 8 the sleeve is electrically connected with a metal
plate, held in position on tho top of the table by the
standard which passes through the plate. A wire leading from the plate passes through a hole in the table
underneath the plate. In Exhibit 9 the annular conductor is located above the table top and a wire leading
from it passes through a hole in the table.
Comparison of the several accused devices shows that
in all but Exhibits 5 and 7 the conductor means complementary to the coil spring is not embedded in the table,
but is supported by an insulated plate resting on the
table or an insulating core held in position by the standard. In Exhibits 6 and 10 the conductor means passes
to its wire connection through a hole in the table underneath the plate. In Exhibit 8 the connecting wire
passes through a hole in the table to a metal plate resting
on its surface, and in Exhibit 9 to the conductor means
located above th surface of the table.
Petitioners insist that respondent is estopped to assert
infringement by the file wrapper record in the Patent
Office; and, in any event, that estoppel can be avoided
and infringement established only by resort to the doctrine of equivalents, which they assert is incompatible

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

3i5 U. S.

with the statutory requirements for the grant of a patent
and with the doctrine that the patent claims measure
the patented invention.
The file wrapper history, so far as now relevant, relates
to Claim 7 which, after amendment, was allowed as Claim
4 now in issue. The original Claim 7 with its amendments is set forth as follows, matter added by amendment in parentheses; matter stricken in italics and
underscored:
(4) 7. In a ball rolling game having a substantialFy horizontal table over which balls are
rollable,
the combination with said table of a substantially vertical standard anchored in said table
with its lower
end carrying on the underside of the table a
lead for an
A1
electric circuit and its upper end extending
a substantial distance above the top surface
of the table, a
coil spring surrounding the standard, means carrying
said spring pendantly from the upper portion of
-the
per C standard (ABOVE THE TABLE) with the
coils of the spring spaced from the
"

"

standard and the lower end of the coil spring

terminating
at a distance above the top surface of the table

per B

to enable the spring to be resiliently flexed
when bumped
by a ball rolling on the table, said spring being
in the
aforementioned circuit and constituting a
conductor, and
other conductor means (IN SAID CIRCUIT
AND EMBEDDED IN) carried by the table
at a point
spaced from the standard and engageable by a

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

133

Opinion of the Court.

portion of
the spring when it is flexed to close the aforementioned
circuit.
The original application contained six claims, all of
which the examiner rejected because he thought no patentable significance had been shown. The inventor submitted certain amendments, and two new claims, 7 and
8, and induced the examiner to reconsider the patentability of the invention. Four of the claims were then
allowed, but the examiner rejected Claim 7 as failing to
claim the invention. He said: "It is old in the art to
make an electrical contact by flexing a coil spring as shown
by the art already cited in the case. In order to distinguish over the references therefor, the applicant's particular type of contact structure, comprising an extension
on the coil spring adapted to engage an annular contact
embedded in the table, must appear in the claims ...
.
Applicant rejected the examiner's suggestion that the
"contact structure" be adapted to engage "an annular contact embedded in' the table." Instead he cancelled
"other" from the claim and substituted for "carried by"
the phrase "in said circuit and embedded in," saying Claim
7 has been "significantly amended" "to define the complementary conductor contact as being embedded in the
table." He added that "it is too far to go to state that
the specific leg 19 must be defined," and "the allowed
claims can it seems, be very simply avoided by taking the
leg 19, separating it from the spring 18 and embedding it
as a pin in the table so that the spring when flexed would
contact the pin. . . . Claim 7 covers such alternative
form and

. .

.

in justice to applicant

. . .

should

be

allowed."
The examiner in reply recognized as "true" applicant's
suggestion that if the leg pendant from the spring "were
removed from the spring and embedded in the table an

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

operative device would result," but pointed out that the
device claimed by the amendment "would be inoperative
as the coil spring could not both terminate at a distance
above the table and extend into a ferrule embedded
therein." Thereupon the applicant added to the claim
the words "above the table" and cancelled the phrase,
"and the lower end of the coil spring terminating at a distance above the top surface of the table." The claim as
amended was then allowed as Claim 4.
The claim before amendment plainly read on plaintiff's
Exhibits 5 and 7 in which the nail or pin conductor is
driven into the table, since the nail or pin is a "conductor
means carried by the table" "engageable by a portion of
the spring when flexed." The claim thus read is for an
operative device, since the nail or pin projects above the
table and may be engaged by the coil spring similarly
located. The claim, as amended and allowed as Claim 4,
likewise reads on plaintiff's Exhibits 5 and 7 if the nail or
pin conductor which is driven into the table is "embedded
in the table."
Petitioners do not seriously assert here that it is not so
embedded. In fact their brief expressly states that "we
pass this contention." They could not well do otherwise,
for the pin or nail, even though it protrudes above or below the table, not only conforms to the dictionary definition of "embed"-"To set solidly as in a bed," Webster;
"To fix firmly in a surrounding mass of some solid material," Oxford Dictionary-but examination of the drawings and specifications indicates clearly enough that the
claim was not intended to be limited to a complementary
conductor located wholly between the upper and nether
surfaces of the table. The specifications and drawings express no such limitation, and it is clear that the use of the
word "embedded" in the claim as finally amended, when
read in its bontext of claim and specifications, does not indicate such a limitation.

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

135

Opinion of the Court.

The patent drawings show the embedded ring conductor
extending slightly both above and below the table. The
examiner, in his second rejection of Claim 7, in saying that
if the leg pendant from the spring were removed from the
spring and "embedded" in the table an operative device
would result, could not have referred to the embedded leg
or nail as being wholly located below the surface of the
table, since the pin so disposed would not be "engageable"
"by a portion of the spring when it is flexed" by a ball
rolling in any direction. The term is to be read as used in
a permissible sense which would conform to the drawings
and the function which the conductor to which the term
was applied was obviously intended to perform.
We think. that the word "embedded," as applied in
Claim 4, must be. taken to embrace any conductor means
solidly set or firmly fixed in the table, whether or not it protrudes above or below the surface. Claim 7 before
amendment read on the accused devices, plaintiff's Exhibits 5 and 7, which exhibit the nail or pin embedded in
the table but protruding above its surface. Consequently
the patentee by amending the claim so as to define the
conductor means as embedded -in the table did not
exclude from the amended claim devices exemplified by
these exhibits, and they must be deemed to be
infringements.
There remains the question whether respondent may
rely upon the doctrine of equivalents to establish infringement by the four other accused devices. Respondent
concedes that the conductor means in the four devices are
not literally "embedded in the table," but insists that the
changes in structure which they exhibit over that of plaintiff's Exhibits 5 and 7 are but the mechanical equivalents
of the "conductor means embedded in the table" called
for by the amended claim, and so are entitled to the protection afforded by the doctrine of equivalents. Petitioners do not seriously urge that the conductor means in the

136

OCTOBER TERM, 194L
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

four accused devices are not mechanical equivalents of
the conductor means embedded in the table which the
patent claims. Instead, they argue that the doctrine
should be discarded because it does not satisfy the demands of the statute that the patent shall describe the
invention. R. S. ยง4888; 35 U. S. C. ยง 33.
We do not find it neoessary to resolve these contentions
here. Whatever may be the appropriate scope and application of the doctrine of equivalents, where a claim is
allowed without a restrictive amendment, it has long been
settled that recourse may not be had to that doctrine to
recapture claims which the patentee has surrendered by
amendment.
Assuming that the patentee would have been entitled
to equivalents embracing the accused devices had he
originally claimed a "conductor means embedded in the
table," a very different issue is presented when the applicant, in order to meet objections in the Patent Office,
based on references to the prior art, adopted the phrase
as a substitute for the broader one "carried by the table."
Had Claim 7 been allowed in its original form, it woulal
have read upon all the accused devices, since in all the conductor means complementary to the coil 'spring are
"carried by the table." By striking that phrase from the
claim and substituting for it "embedded in tle table,"
the applicant restricted his claim to those combinations in
which the conductor means, though carried on the table,
is also embedded in it. By the amendment, he recognized
and emphasized the difference between the two phrases
and proclaimed his abandonment of all that is embraced
in that difference. Hubbell v. United States, 179 U. S.
77, 83; Weber Electric Co. v. Freeman Electric Co., 256
U. S. 668, 677-78; I. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex Rubber Co.,
272 U. S. 429,440,444; Smith v. Magic City Kennel Club,
282 U. S: 784, 789; Schriber Co. v. Cleveland Trust Co.,

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE CORP.
126

137

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S. 211; cf. in case of disclaimer Altoona Theatres v.
Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 492, 493. The difference which he thus disclaimed must be regarded -as material, and since the amendment operates as a disclaimer
of that difference it must be strictly construed against him.
Smith v. Magic City Kennel Club, supra,790; Shepard v.
Carrigan,116 U. S.593, 598; Goodyear Dental Vulcanite
Co. v. Davis, 102 U. S. 222, 228. As the question is one of
construction of the claim, it is immaterial whether the
examiner was right or wrong in rejecting the claim as filed.
Hubbell v. United States, supra,83; I. T. S. Rubber Co. v.
Essex Rubber Co., supra, 443. It follows that what the.
patentee, by a strict construction of the claim, has disclaimed--conductors which are carried by the table but
not embedded in it--cannot now be regained by recourse
to the doctrine of equivalents, which at most operates, by
liberal construction, to secure to the inventor the full
benefits, not disclaimed, of the claims allowed.
Plaintiff's Exhibits 5 and 7 do, and its Exhibits 6, 8, 9
and 10 do not, infringe. The judgments will be modified
accordingly.
Modified.
MR.JusTIcz ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision ofthis case.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK, dissenting, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS concurs:
I -think the judgments below should be reversed in
full.
There can be no infringement of a void patent,. and a
patent which shows neither invention noi discovery is
void.' The mere application of an old mechanical in1
Dunbar v. Myers, 94 U. S. 187; Thompson v. Boseier, 114 U. S.
1; Saranac Machine Corp. v. Wirebounds Co., 282 U. S. 704.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

strument to a new use is not an invention and therefore
2
not patentable.
The -combination patented here contains not a single
new element. The whole device is nothing more than an
electric switch mounted on a table, which closes and opens
with the flexing and reflexing of an ordinary coil spring
when hit by a rolling ball. The spring, standing upright
on the table, serves as a target in a pin ball game, its
resiliency being utilized not only to make and break the
circuit but to make the ball rebound.
The Constitution authorizes the granting of patent
privileges only to inventors who make "discoveries."
And the statute provides for the granting of patents only
to those who have "invented or discovered" something
"new." To call the device here an invention or discovery
such as was contemplated by the Constitution or the
statute is, in my judgment, to degrade the meaning of
those terms.
Patentees have rights given them by law. "But the
public has rights also. The rights of both should be upheld and enforced by an equally firm hand, whenever they
come under judicial consideration." ' By failing to assign
error on the issue of patentability, parties to an infringement suit should not be permitted to foreclose a court
from protecting the public interest. And here, as in other
cases where there is plain error, we should notice it.'

2Phillips v. Page, 24 How. 164; Paramount Publix Corp. v. TriErgon Corp., 294 U. S. 464.
'Densmore v. Scofield, 102 U. S. 375, 378.
'Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U. S. 1, 10.

