HOWARD HALL CO. v. U. S.
475

Syllabus.

either the use of different legal standards or discriminatory administration.
The administrators of the Motor Carrier Act must be
aware, as the framers of it were, that "the grandfather
clause as of June 1, 1935, has been fixed in fairness to bona
fide motor carriers now operating on the highway and
limited so as to prevent speculation which is highly important." Report of the Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, H. R. Rep. No. 1645, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 4. When a carrier claims grandfather rights to
serve the entire Atlantic seaboard as a general common
carrier with equipment consisting on the critical date, of
eight trucks, the Commission is obviously forewarned
that it must guard against granting franchise privileges
that will result in their having a speculative value to the
carrier rather than a service value to the public. The
Commission was quite right to take the measure of the
territory and service of such a claimant and to give him
a certificate covering his actual substantial operations.
We should not substitute our own wisdom or unwisdom
for that of administrative officers who have kept within
the bounds of their administrative powers. A. T. & T.
Co. v. United States, 299 U. S. 232, 236.
HOWARD HALL CO., INC. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 210. Argued January 16, 19, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.
1. A grant by the Interstate Commerce Commission of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity for operation as a common carrier
by motor vehicle under the "grandfather clause" of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, authorizing service only from a particular city and
all points within a radius of 10 miles thereof, to all points in certain
States and to designated points in others, held not erroneous. P. 498.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

2. In a grant of common carrier rights under the "grandfather clause,"
that. part of the order of the Commission in this case which limits
the kinds of commodities which may be carried between specified
points, is not supported by the requisite basic or essential findings.
United States v. CarolinaFreight Carriers,ante, p. 475. P. 499.
38 F. Supp. 556, reversed.

APPF, from a deeree dismissing the complaint in a suit
to enjoin enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
* Mr. Allan Watkins, with whom Mr. Edgar Watkins
was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. Frank
Coleman and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief, for
appellees.
Mr. James W. Wrape filed a brief on behalf of the Regular Common Carrier Conference of the American Trucking Associations, Inc., as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
Ma. JusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case, like United States v. CarolinaFreight Carriers Corp., ante, p. 475, is an appeal from a district court
of three judges (38 F. Supp. 556) convened to review an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission (24
M. C. C. 273) granting appellant a certificate of public
convenience and necessity as a common carrier by
motor vehicle under the so-called "grandfather clause"
(ยง 206 (a)) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935. 49 U. S. C.
ยง 306.
Appellant made application as a common carrier of
general commodities operating over irregular routes. It

HOWARD HALL CO. v. U. S.
495 ,

Opinion of the Court.

sought authority to operate between all points in a vast
territory comprising most of the country east of the Mississippi River, except the New England states. The
Commission authorized the issuance of a certificate but
limited it in two respects. (1) It restricted the geographical scope of the operations by authorizing service only
from Birmingham, Ala., and all points within a radius of
10 miles from that city, to all points in certain states and
to designated points in others. (2) Though it permitted
appellant to carry general commodities throughout a large
segment of the authorized territory, it limited the kinds
of commodities which could be carried between specified
points. Its finding containing those restrictions (24
M. C. C., p. 277) reads as follows:
"We find that applicant was, on June 1, 1935, and
continuously since that time has been, in bona fide operation, in interstate or foreign commerce, as a common carrier by motor vehicle, of general commodities, except
commodities of unusual value, high explosives, commodities in bulk, commodities requiring special equipment,
and household goods, uncrated or in lift vans in connection with so-called household moyings between Birmingham, Ala., and all points within 10 miles thereof, on the
one hand, and, on the other, all points in North Carolina,
Georgia, Mississippi, and South Carolina, and those in
Florida on and north of a line consisting of U. S. Highway
92 from Tampa to Kissimmee, thence U. S. Highway 192
to Melbourne, of paper and paper products from Birmingham to New Orleans, La., and Chattanooga and Knoxville, Tenn., and from Kingsport, Tenn., to Birmingham,
of nails, pipe, pipe fittings, steel, and metal ceilings from
Canton, Ohio, to Birmingham, of cloth from Alabama
City, Ala., to Wheeling, W. Va., and of matches from
Wheeling to Chattanooga and Birmingham, all over irregular routes; that by reason of such operation it is

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

entitled to a certificate authorizing the continuance thereof; and that the application in all other respects should
be denied."
The District Court refused to enjoin enforcement of
the order and dismissed the complaint. The errors urged
here do not relate to the substantiality of the evidence in
support of the findings.. They involve two questions:
(1) whether the Commission was warranted in limiting
shipments, to and from points located within a 10 mile,
rather than a 100 mile, radius of Birmingham; and (2)
whether the Commission erred in limiting the operating
rights of appellant to the transportation of only a few
commodities between certain points,
I. We perceive no error in the limitation which the
Commission made on the territorial scope of appellant's
operations.
Appellant argues that if it may be authorized to serve
all points in one state, say Georgia, without showing that
every point in Georgia had been previously served by it,
then it must be granted like authority as respects the 100
mile radius around Birmingham. That is a non sequitur. Prior operations to several points in a region may
or may not justify the Commission in authorizing service
throughout the whole region. The precise geographical
pattern -for future operations is the product of an expert
judgment based on the substantiality of the evidence as
to prior operations, the characteristics of the particular
type of carrier, the capacity or ability of the applicant to
render the service, and the like. Alton R. Co. v. United
States, 315 13. S. 15; United States v. Carolina Freight
CarriersCorp., supra. The Commission employed those
standards in limiting the territorial scope of appellant's
operations. We cannot say that its reduction of the Birmingham area from a radius of 100 miles to a radius of
10 miles was unjustified. The Commission found that

HOWARD HALL CO. v. U. S.
495

Opinion of the Court.

only 55 shipments were transported prior to June 1, 1935,
to or from points within 100 miles of Birmingham, as
against 875 to or from that city. Only 12 points were
served in that large area. After June 1, 1935, 270 shipments moved to or from points within 100 miles of Birmingham, as against 2,030 to or from that city. The Commission reduced the radius to 10 miles in an endeavor to
include only the important industrial area surrounding
that city. If we were to enlarge that area, we would
clearly usurp a function which Congress entrusted to the
Commission. Nor can that finding be assailed because
permission to serve all points in other areas was allowed.
Such a difference in treatment plainly is not erroneous as
a matter of law. And nothing has been called to our
attention which would even suggest that the record of
prior operations or the characteristics of this transportation enterprise precluded the Commission from restricting the territory where shipments mainly originate while
being more liberal as respects the territory where destination points are located.
II. We take a different view as respects the limitation
on commodities which the Commission imposed in case
of shipments between specified points. We do not say
that that limitation was unjustified. We merely hold that
in this case, as in United States v. CarolinaFreightCarriersCorp., supra,the basic or essential findings to support
that part of the order are lacking. The Commission's
conclusion that appellant was authorized to transport
general commodities between Birmingham and vicinity
on the one hand, and all points in designated areas on
the other, was based on its finding that prior to and since'
June 1, 1935, appellant "held itself out to transport general commodities" in that territory and "actually conducted an operation consistent with such holding out."
But in case of the limitation which it imposed on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court..

315 U. S.

shipment of certain commodities it merely found that

"prior to and since June 1,. 1935, applicant transported
paper and paper products from Birmingham to New
Orleans, La., and Chattanooga and Knoxville, Tennessee,
and from Kingsport, Tenn., to Birmingham; nails, pipe,
pipe fittings, steel, and metal ceilings from Canton, Ohio,
to Birmingham; cloth from Alabama City, Ala., to
Wheeling, W. Va., and matches from Wheeling to Chattanooga and Birmingham."
As we indicated in United States v. Carolina Freight
Carriers Corp., supra, if the applicant had established
that it. was a "common carrier" of general commodities
during the critical periods in a specified territory, restrictions on commodities which could be moved between
specified points in that territory would not be justified.
The mere fact that particular commodities had never
been transported between designated points in that territory would not mean that authority to haul them between such points should be withheld. On the other
hand, an applicant's status may vary from one part of
the territory to another. As respects carriage between
designated points, the applicant may have restricted its
undertaking to particular commodities. It is not clear,
however, that the Commission applied those tests in
this case. From all that appears, it may have allowed
only paper and paper products to be shipped from Birmingham to New Orleans merely because paper and paper
products were the only commodities previously carried
between those cities. It is true that the Commission
quoted from Reliance Trucking Co., Inc., 4 M. C. C.
594, 595, to the effect that the question is whether there
has been an operation within the critical periods consistent with the holding out in the natural and normal
course of business, and that a mere holding out without
evidence of an operation consistent therewith is not
enough. Yet it also seems to have placed considerable

BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
495

Syllabus.

reliance on Powell Brothers Truck Lines, Inc., 9 M. C. C.
785, 791-792, which we have discussed in United States
v. CarolinaFreight CarriersCorp., supra, and which ap-

parently treats irregular route carriers differently in this
regard from regular route carriers. Since the influence
of that view seems to have permeated the findings, we
conclude that here, as in United States v. Carolina
Freight Carriers Corp., supra, the case should be remanded to the Commission so that the basic or essential
findings required under the rule of Florida v. United
States, 282 U. S. 194, 215, may be made.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
dissent for the reasons stated in their dissenting opinion
in United States v. CarolinaFreight CarriersCorp., ante,

p. 475.
BUTLER BROTHERS v. McCOLGAN, FRANCHISE
TAX COMMISSIONER OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 283.

Argued February 12, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. In the application of a state statute imposing on corporations
doing business within and without the State a franchise tax measured by a percentage of the net income derived from business
within the State, a formula which is "fairly calculated" to allocate
to the State that portion of the net income "reasonably attributable" to the business done there sntisfies the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 506.
2. One who attacks a formula for determining, under a taxing statute,
the amounV of net income allocable to the State, has the burden
of showing by clear and cogent evidence that it results in extraterritorial values being taxed. P. 507.
3. A wholesale merchandise corporation operated, as a unitary business, stores in several States, including one in California. It
maintained a central buying division which served all the stores.

