HOTEL EMPLOYEES' LOCAL v. BOARD.

437

Opinion of the Court.

HOTEL & RESTAURANT EMPLOYEES' INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE, LOCAL NO. 122, ET A. v.
WISCONSIN EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS BOARD
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 124.

Argued January 9, 12, 1942.--Decided March 2, 1942.

A state regulation which forbids violence on the part of strikers in
picketing the premises of their employer, but which permits peaceful picketing, held consistent with the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 441.
236 Wis. 329, 294 N. W. 632, 295 N. W. 634, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 590, to review the affirmance of a
decree which sustained an order of the Employment Relations Board of Wisconsin acting under the Employment
Peace Act of the State of Wisconsin.

Messrs. I. E. Goldberg and Joseph A. Padway for petitioners.
Messrs. N. S. Boardman, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, and Herman M. Knoeller argued the cause for
respondents. Messrs. John E. Martin, Attorney General,
and James Ward Rector, Deputy Attorney General, were
on the brief with Mr. Boardman for the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, and Mr. Wzlter H. Bender
was on the brief with Mr. Knoeller for the Plankinton
House Company, respondents.
Mit. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We brought this case here from. the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, 314 U. S. 590, to canvass the claim that Wisconsin has forbidden the petitioners to engage in peaceful

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

picketing insofar as we have deemed it an exercise of the
right of free speech protected by the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Thornhill v. Alabama,
310 U. S. 88; American Federationof Labor v. Swing, 312
U. S. 321. The specific question for decision is the constitutional validity of an order made by the Wisconsin
Employment Relations Board acting under the Employment Peace Act, Wisconsin Laws of 1939, c. 57. In deciding this question we are of course controlled by the
construction placed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
upon the order and the pertinent provisions of the Act.
These are the undisputed facts. In June 1938, the petitioners, various unions representing hotel and restaurant
employees, made a closed shop agreement for a year with
the respondent Plankinton House Company, which owned
two hotels in Milwaukee. After negotiations between the
parties for renewal of the contract failed, the dispute was
submitted to arbitration. On October 30, 1939, the Company notified the unions of its willingness to sign a contract in accordance with the terms of the arbitration.
Three days later the employees of both hotels went on
strike. Members of the unions picketed the hotels, and
the Company continued to operate the hotels with new
employees. Union pickets forcibly prevented the delivery
of goods to one of the hotels. For this conduct two union
officials were arrested and fined. One of them returned
to the picket line immediately after his arrest, assaulted
one of the non-striking employees, and was again arrested
and fined. Numerous other outbreaks of violence resulted
in the conviction of the offending pickets and occasioned
special police measures to maintain the peace.
The Company complained to the Employment Relations Board that the petitioners had committed "unfair
labor practices." After due hearing, the Board made findings of fact, not challenged throughout these proceedings.

HOTEL EMPLOYEES' LOCAL v. BOARD.
437

439

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the basis of these findings, the Board issued the order
set forth in the margin.'
In accordance with the statutory provisions for judicial
review, the petitioners applied to the Circuit Court of
Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, to set aside the Board's
order. The Board cross-petitioned for enforcement. The
Circuit Court sustained the order, and an appeal was taken
to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, which affirmed the
judgment and, after further elucidating the meaning of
the statute and the order, denied a rehearing. 236 Wis.
329, 352; 294 N. W. 632, 295 N. W. 634.
The Wisconsin statute underlying this controversy was
enacted as a comprehensive code governing the relations
"It is ordered that the respondent unions, Hotel and Restaurant
Employees International Alliance, Local No. 122, International Laundry
Workers, Local No. 174, Bartenders International League of America,
Local No. 64, International Union of Operating Efigineers, Local No.
311, and the Milwaukee Building Trades Council, the officers, members, agents, successors and assigns of each shall:
"1. Immediately cease and desist from:
(a) Engaging in promoting or inducing picketing at or near the
Plankinton House or the Kilbourn Hotel;
(b) Attempting to hinder or prevent by threats, intimidation, force
or coercion of any kind the pursuit of lawful work by employes of the
Plankinton House Company;
(c) Boycotting in any way the Plankinton House Company.
"2. Take the following affirmative action, which the Board finds
will effectuate the policies of the act:
(a) Post notices to their members in conspicuous places at the union
headquarters that the union has ceased and desisted in the manner
aforesaid, and that all officers, members and agents of the union are to
refrain from engaging in promoting or inducing picketing and boycotting of the Plankinton House Company, and also to refrain from
attempting to hinder or prevent by threats, intimidation, force or
coercion of any kind the pursuit of lawful work by employes of the
Plankinton House Company.
(b) Notify the Board in writing forthwith that steps have been
taken by each of the respondent unions to comply herewith."

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

between employers and employees in the state. Only a
few of its many provisions are relevant here. Section
111.06 provides that it shall be "an unfair labor practice"
to "cooperate in engaging in, promoting or inducing picketing, boycotting or any other overt concomitant of a strike
unless a majority in a collective bargaining unit of the
employes of an employer against whom such acts are primarily directed have voted by secret ballot to call a strike,"
and to "hinder or prevent, by mass picketing, threats, intimidation, force or coercion of any kind the pursuit of
any lawful work or employment, or to obstruct or interfere
with entrance to or egress from any -placeof employment,
or to obstruct or interfere with free and uninterrupted use
of public roads, streets, highways, railways, airports, or
other ways of travel or conveyance." The Act contains
a provision expressly dealing with its construction:
"Except as specifically provided in this chapter, nothing
therein shall be construed so as to interfere with or impede
or diminish in any way the right to strike or the right of
individuals to work; nor shall anything in this chapter be
so construed as to invade unlawfully the right to freedom
of speech." ยง 111.15.
The central attack against the order is that, as enforced by the Wisconsin courts, it enjoins peaceful picketing. Whether Wisconsin has denied the petitioners any
rights under the federal Constitution is our ultimate
responsibility. But precisely what restraints Wisconsin
has imposed upon the petitioners is for the Wisconsin
Supreme Court to determine. in its opinion in this case,
and more particularly in its explanatory opinion denying
a rehearing, the Court construed the relevant provisions
of the Employment Peace Act and confined the scope'of
the challenged order to the limits of the construction
which it gave them. That Court has of course the final
say concerning the meaning of a Wisconsin law and the
scope of administrative orders made under it. Aikens

HOTEL EMPLOYEES' LOCAL v. BOARD.
437

441

Opinion of the Court.

v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Senn v. Tile Layers Union,
301 U. S.468. What is before us, therefore, is not the
order as an isolated, self-contained writing but the order
with the gloss of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin upon
it. And that Court has unambiguously rejected the construction upon which the claim of the petitioners rests.
That the order forbids only violence, and that it permits peaceful picketing by these petitioners, is made
abundantly clear by the expressions of the Court:
"The act does not limit the right of an employee to
speak freely. .

.

. The term 'picketing', as used in [the

act], does not include actshld in the Thornhil Case,
supra, to be within the protection of the constitutional
guaranty of the right of free speech. The express language of the act forbids such a construction. It clearly
refers to that kind of picketing which the Thornhill Case
says the state has power to deal with 'as a part of its
power to preserve the peace, and protect the privacy, the
lives and the property of its residents' .....
In this case
it is undisputed that numerous assaults were committed
by the pickets, that the pickets acted in concert; that the
fines of these pickets were paid by the unions; that ingress and egress to and from the premises of the employer were prevented by force and arms. It was at
conduct of that kind that the statute was aimed. It is
conduct of that kind that is dealt with in this case. It is
conduct of that kind that is declared to be an unfair labor
practice by the statute and from which the defendants
are ordered to cease and desist. .

.

."

And on rehear-

ing: "Under the statute and the order of the board as
interpreted and construed by the explicit language of the
[previous] opinion, freedom of speech and the right
peacefully to picket is in no way interfered with. The
appellants could not, be ordered to cease and desist from
something-they were not engaged in. .

.

. The picketing

carried on in this case was not peaceful and the right of

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

free speech is in no way infringed by the statute or the
order of the board." 236 Wis. 329, passim.
What public policy Wisconsin should adopt in furthering desirable industrial relations is for it to say, so long
as rights guaranteed by the Constitution are respected.
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Senn v. Tile Layers
Union, 301 U. S. 468. As the order and the appropriate
provisions of the statute upon which it was based leave
the petitioners' freedom of speech unimpaired, the judgment below must be affirmed. Problems that would arise
had the order and the pertinent provisions of the Act
been otherwise construed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin need not therefore be considered.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
THOMSON, TRUSTEE OF CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO., ET AL. v. GASKILL
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139.

Argued January 7, 8, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. The policy of Jud. Code ยง 24 (1), conferring jurisdiction by diversity of citizenship, calls for strict construction of the statute.
If a plaintiff's allegations of jurisdictional facts are challenged by
the defendant, the plaintiff must support them by competent proof,
or the bill must be dismissed. P. 446.
2. Owing to the absence from the record of agreements upon which
this suit was founded, it can not be determined whether the nature
of the plaintiffs' claims is such that they may be aggregated in
determining the jurisdictional amount. P. 446.
3. In computing jurisdictional amounts, claims of plaintiffs can not be
aggregated merely because they are derived from a single instrument, or because the plaintiffs have a community of interests. P.447.

