OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

delay in entering the final order. Handling of complaints
as quickly as is consistent with good administration is of
course essential. It is important both to the employer,
who may have to pay back wages, and to the employee,
who must live without his job. Unfortunately, this cause
took from June 10, 1937, to December 31, 1939. There is
nothing in the record, beyond a failure of the Board to file
an intermediate report, which would tend to justify us,
however, in shortening the period for compensation.
This error was admitted and corrected by the Board. We
cannot penalize the employees for this happening.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed with directions to enforce the order of the Board
except as to reimbursement of federal, state and local
work-relief projects.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is

of the opinion the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 120 F. 2d 611.

MILES ET AL. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TENNESSEE.

No. 272.

Argued February. 10, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

Section 6 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act prevents a state
court from enjoining, on the ground of the inconvenience or expense
to the railroad, a resident citizen of the State from prosecuting or
furthering an action under the Act (or receiving the proceeds of any
judgment therein) in a state court of another State which has jurisdiction under the Act. P. 705.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 602, to review a decree of injunction. The highest court of the State had refused a review
by certiorari.

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

699

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William G. Cavett, with whom Mr. Louis E. Miller
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Thomas A. Evans and Larry Creson, with whom
Messrs. Marion G. Evans and Clinton H. McKay were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of thb Court.

The effect of § 6 of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act' on the power of a state court to enjoin its citizens, on
the ground of oppressiveness and inequity to the defendant carrier, from suing on a F. E. L. A. claim in the state
courts of another state, furthering such a suit in any manner, or receiving the proceeds of any judgment so obtained,
is before us for decision.
The respondent, an Illinois corporation, hereafter referred to as the Illinois Central, brought an original bill
in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, seeking to enjoin one of the petitioners here, Mrs. Miles, then
-the Tennessee administratrix of her husband, a resident
of that State, from further prosecuting in a Missouri state
court her F. E. L. A. claim against the Illinois Central for
the death of her husband, its employee. The fatal accident had occurred at Memphis, Tennessee. After a tern•porary injunction issued, Mrs. Miles promptly dismissed
her Missouri suit and was discharged as administratrix by
'36 Stat. 291. "Snc. 6. That no action shall be maintained under
this Act unless commenced within two years from the day the cause
of action accrued.
"Under this Act an action may be brought in a circuit court of the
United States, in the district of the residence of the defendant, or in
which the cause of action arose, or in which the defendant shall be doing business at the time of commencing such action. The jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States under this Act shall be concurrent
with that of the courts of the several States, and no case arising under
this Act and brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction shall
be removed to any court of the United States," 45 U. S. C. § 5G.

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the Tennessee probate court. A Missouri administrator
was then appointed at her suggestion, and he instituted
another Missouri suit for the same cause of action. The
Illinois Central filed an amended and supplemental bill,
adding decedent's children, likewise residents of Tennessee, as defendants, and enlarging its prayer to forbid
furthering the new suit in any manner or receiving the
proceeds of any judgment. A new temporary injunction
was issued as prayed.
The grounds for the injunction were the inconvenience
and expense to the Illinois Central of taking its Memphis
employees to St. Louis, and the resulting burden upon
interstate commerce. The anticipated extra expense was
several hundred dollars per day for an estimated two days
of actual trial and whatever additional time might be lost
by continuances or delay. Inconvenience was expected
through the withdrawal of some twelve to twenty employees and officials from their duties for the same period.
The defense relied upon a timely. plea that § 6 of the F. E.
L. A. prevented the enjoining of proceedings in the
Missouri courts.
The trial court found that the continued prosecution of
the pending Missouri case would be "oppressive and inequitable" to the Illinois Central and "a burden on the
commerce and business of the complainant." As a matter of law, the court concluded, however, that the Illinois
Central was not entitled to permanent injunctions. On
appeal the Court of Appeals reversed the decree and made
the temporary injunctions permanent.. Further state review by certiorari in the Supreme Court of Tennessee was
refused, and we granted certiorari to the Court of Appeals
to settle an important federal question 2 as to the ap'Judicial Code § 237 (b).

Southern Ry. Co. v. Painter,314 U. S.

155, 159-60: "If a state court proceeds as the Chancery Court ofTennessee acted, the ultimate vindication of any federal right lies with
this Court." Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Kepner, 314 U. S. 44, 52.

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

701

Opinion of the Court.

plicability of § 6 of the F. E. L. A. to this situation. 314
U. S. 602. Cf. Payne v. Knapp, 197 Iowa 737, 198 N. W.
62; Petersonv. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 187 Minn. 228,244
N. W. 823; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Kepner, 137 Ohio
St. 409,30 N. E. 2d 982, affirmed 314 U. S. 44.
The Kepner case dealt with the power of a state court to
enjoin a resident from continued prosecution of a suit under the F. E. L. A. in a distant federal district court on the
ground of inequity, vexatiousness and harassment. The
decision denied the power to interfere with the privileges
of federal venue "for the benefit of the carrier or the
national transportation system."
As in the Kepner case, there is in this case no occasion
to go into the question of the availability, as support for
an injunction, of a charge of interference with interstate
commerce by reason of the burden of expense and inconvenience. The trial court found a burden on the commerce of the Illinois Central, but made no finding as to any
burden on interstate commerce. Moreover, the Court of
Appeals stated that the Illinois Central "expressly abandoned the contention" "that the prosecution of the suit in
St. Louis was a burden on interstate commerce." No contention is made here that there is any such burden or that
the Illinois Central is not doing substantial business in
Missouri, as found by the trial court. It operates daily
passenger trains with its own crews into St. Louis over the
St. Louis Terminal Company tracks, maintains passenger
and freight offices and had total receipts, in St. Louis, of a
million-and-a-half the year the suit was filed. Under the
rule announced in Denver & R. G. W. R. Co. v. Terte, 284
U. S.284, 287, the Illinois Central is properly suable in
Missouri. In the Kepner case, 314 U. S.44, 51, we pointed
out, with a discussion of the applicable cases, that the carrier must submit to inconvenience and expense, if there is
jurisdiction, "although thereby interstate commerce is in-

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

cidentally burdened." There is no occasion to repeat the
comments here. The specific declaration in § 6 that the
United States courts should have concurrent jurisdiction
with those of the several states, and the prohibition
against removal, point clearly to the conclusion that Congress has exercised its authority over interstate commerce
to the extent of permitting suits in state courts, despite
the incidental burden, where process may be obtained on
a defendant, not merely soliciting business but actually
carrying on railroading by operating trains and maintaining traffic offices within the territory of the court's
jurisdiction.'
The real point of controversy here is whether that portion of § 6 of the F. E. L. A., which holds litigation in the
state court where it is instituted, prevents the court of
another state from enjoining citizens, within its jurisdiction, from continued prosecution of the suit on grounds
of inequity. Here, as in Kepner's case, there is no
question but that the Missouri court has venue of the
proceeding. Here, too, we need to look no farther into
Tennessee law than the opinion of the state's highest
court,'in this record, to conclude that under state law a
court of equity may enjoin a resident citizen from attempting to enforce his rights, oppressively and
inequitably,' and that the expense and inconvenience
hereinbefore set out resulted in oppressiveness and inconvenience in the eye of the state court.
Hoffman v. Missouri ex rel. Foraker,274 U. S. 21. Cf. International
Milling Co. v. Columbia Co., 292 U. S. 511, limiting Davis v. Farmers

Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells,
265 U. S. 101, and Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mix, 278 U. S. 492, to
the rule that suits upon extra-state causes of action under F. E. L. A.
burden commerce and will not be permitted in courts of states where
the defendant carriers do no more than maintain facilities for solicitation of business. The three cases last mentioned and the Foraker case
were all written by the same justice, within the space of a few years.
'Cf. Chambersv. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 149.

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

703

Opinion of the Court.

In the legislative history of § 6,' the provision that
removal may not be had frQm a "state court of competent
jurisdiction" was added to the House bill on the floor of
the Senate and later accepted by the House, in order
to assure a hearing to the employee in a, state court.
Words were simultaneously adopted recognizing the
jurisdiction of the state courts by-providing that the federal jurisdiction should be concurrent. The venue of
state court suits was left to the practice of the forum.
The opportunity to present causes of action arising under
the F. E. L. A. in the state courts came, however, not from
the state law but from the federal. By virtue of the
Constitution, the courts of the several states must remain
open to such litigants on the same basis that they are open
to litigants with causes of action springing from a different
source. This is so because the Federal Constitution
makes the laws of the United States the supreme law of
'House Resolution 17263, 61st Congress, 2d Session, which eventually became the Act of 1910, contained no prohibition or restriction
upon removal of suits from state courts when it passed the House,
and was reported to the Senate by the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary. Sen. Rep. No. 432, 61st Cong., 2d Sess., March 22, 1910.
Upon the floor of the Senate several amendments were proposed, varying in terms, but all seeking to achieve some such limitation. 45 Cong.
Rec. 3995, 3998, 4051. Senator Paynter's second version was the
amendment eventually adopted. 45 Cong. Rec. 4093. The House
concurred in the Senate amendment without modification. 45 Cong.
Rec. 4159.
The reason for the amendment was stated by Senator Paynter thus:
"I offer an amendment which will give to the plaintiff the right to
select the forum in which his case shall be tried. He can select the
'federal or the state court, as he may prefer, to try his case arising under
the act in question." P. 4051.
"If this amendment is adopted, the Congress has not conferred by
the act under consideration the exclusive jurisdiction upon state courts.
The plaintiff can choose either the federal or state court in which to
prosecute his action. The effect of my amendment is to prevent the
removal of the action from the state courts when brought there."
P. 4093.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the land, binding on every citizen and every court and
enforceable wherever jurisdiction is adequate foithe purpose. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1,
56-59. The Missouri court here involved must permit
this litigation. To deny citizens from other states, suitors
under F. E. L. A., access to its courts would, if it permitted
access to its own citizens, violate the Privileges and Immunities Clause. Constitution, Art. IV, § 2; McKnett v.
St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., 292 U. S. 230, 233.6 Since the
existence of the cause of action and the privilege of vindicating rights under the F. E. L. A. in state courts spring
from federal law, the right to sue in state courts of proper
venue where their jurisdiction is adequate is of the same
quality as the right to sue in federal courts. It is no more
subject to interference by state action than was the federal
venue in the Kepner case.
This is not to say that states cannot control their courts.
We do not deal here with the power of Missouri by judicial
decision or legislative enactment to regulate the use of its
courts generally, as was approved in the Douglas or the
Chamberscases, note 6 supra. We are considering another
state's power to so control its own citizens that they
cannotexercise the federal privilege of litigating a federal
right in the court of another state.
Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, or Douglasv.
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377, do not impinge upon this
principle. In the former case, an Ohio statute forbade suits in its
courts for wrongful death occurring in another state unless the decedent was a citizen of Ohio. -This Court saw no discrimination against
personal representatives of any decedent, since their right to sue did
not depend upon their citizenship but upon the citizenship of their
decedent. In the latter case, a statute of New York, which gave only
discretionary jurisdiction to suits by nonresidents but compulsory
jurisdiction to suits by residents was held valid because it treated
citizens and noncitizens alike and tested their right to maintain an
action by their residence or nonresidence.

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

705

JACKSON, J., concurring.

State courts have assumed the right to enjoin their citizens from proceeding in the courts of other states. This
was done, for example, in Reed's Admrx. v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 182 Ky. 455, 206 S. W. 794. The basis of the decision was the inequity of allowing a suit at a distant point
in a state or'federal court, page 464." Reed's case was relied upon by Kern v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 204
Ind. 595, 185 N. E. 446, for the authority of a state court
to enjoin its citizens from inequitable conduct under the
F. E. L. A. Other state courts deny their authority to
issue such injunctions.'
The permission granted by Congress to sue in state
courts may be exercised only where the carrier is found doing business. If suits in federal district courts at those
points do not unduly burden interstate commerce, suits
in similarly located state courts cannot be burdensome.
As Congress has permitted both the state and federal
suits, its determination that the carriers must bear the incidental burden is a determination that the state courts
may not treat the normal expense and inconvenience of
trial in permitted places, such as the one selected here, as
inequitable and unconscionable.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause is remanded to the Court of Appeals of Tennessee for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring:

I agree with the conclusion and, with exceptions stated
herein, with the opinion of MR. JUSTICE REED, though'I
' This is not the position of the federal courts. Connelly v. Central
R. Co., 238 F. 932; Schendel v. McGee, 300 F. 273, 278; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Vigor, 90 F. 2d 7.
6Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co. v. Ball, 126 Kan..745, 271 P. 313;
Mobile & Ohio R. Co. v. Parrent,260 Ill. App. 284; Lancasterv. Dunn,
153 La. 15, 95 So. 385.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

315 U. S.

am not able to sublimate the conflict that underlies this
case to the level of either of the conflicting opinions.
Realistically considered, the issue is earthy and unprincipled. So viewed, the real issue is whether a plaintiff
with a cause of action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act may go shopping for a judge or a jury believed
to be more favorable than he would find in his home
forum. An advantage which it is hoped will be reflected
in a judgment is what makes plaintiffs leave home and
incur burdens of expense and inconvenience that would
be regarded as oppressive if forced upon them. And that
is what makes railroads seek injunctions such as this one.
The judiciary has never favored this sort of shopping
for a forum. It has sought to protect its own good name
as well as to protect defendants by injunctions against the
practice of seeking out soft spots in the judicial system in
which to bring particular kinds of litigation. But the
judges, with lawyerly indirection, have not avowed the
interest of the judiciary in orderly resort to the courts as a
basis for their decision, and have cast their protective
doctrines in terms of sheltering defendants against vexatious and harassing suits. This judicial treatment of the
subject of venue leads Congress and the parties to think
of the choice of a forum as a private matter between litigants, and in cases like the present obscures the public interest in venue practices behind a rather fantastic fiction
that a widow is harassing the. Illinois Central Railroad.
If Congress had left us free to consult the ultimate public
interest in orderly resort to the judicial system, I should
agree with MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER'S conclusion. But
the plaintiffs say that they go shopping, not by leave of
the courts themselves, but by the authority of Congress.
Whether the Congress has granted such latitude is our
question.
Unless there is some hidden meaning in the language
Congress has employed, the injured workman or his sur-

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

707

JACKSON, J., conCrting.

viving dependents may choose from the entire territory
served by the railroad any place in which to sue, and in
which to choose either a federal or a state court of which
to ask his remedy. There is nothing which requires a
plaintiff to whom such a choice is given to exercise it in
a self-denying or large-hearted manner. There is nothing
to restrain use of that privilege, as all choices of tribunal
are commonly used by all plaintiffs to get away from judges
who are considered to be unsympathetic, and to get before
those who are considered more favorable; to get away from
juries thought to be small-minded in the matter of verdicts, and to get to those thought to be generous; to escape
courts whose procedures are burdensome to the plaintiff,
and to seek out courts whose procedures make the going
easy.
That such a privilege puts a burden on interstate commerce may well be admitted, but Congress has the power
to burden. The Federal Employers' Liability Act itself
leaves interstate commerce under the burden of a medieval system of compensating the injured railroad worker
or his survivors. He is not given a remedy, but only a
lawsuit. It is well understood that in most cases he will
be unable to pursue that except by splitting his speculative prospects with a lawyer. The functioning of this
backward system of dealing with industrial accidents in
interstate commerce burdens it with perhaps two dollars
of judgment for every dollar that actually reaches those
who have been damaged, and it leaves the burden of many
injuries to be borne by them utterly uncompensated.
Such being the major burden under which the workmen
and the industry must function, I see no reason to believe
that Congress could not have intended the relatively minor additional burden to interstate commerce from loading the dice a little in favor of the workman in the matter
of venue. It seems more probable that Congress intended
to give the disadvantaged workman some leverage in

708

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFUR

,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

the choice of venue, than that it intended to leave him in
a position where the railroad could force him to try one
lawsuit at home to find out whether he would be allowed
to try his principal lawsuit elsewhere. This latter would
be a frequent result if we upheld the contdntion made in
this case and in the Kepner case. I think, therefore, that
the petitioner had a right to resort to the Missouri court
under the circumstances of this case for her remedy.
I do not, however, agree with the statement in MR. JusTICE REED'S opinion that "the Missouri court here involved must permit this litigation." It is very doubtful
if any requirement can be spelled out of the Federal Constitution that a state must furnish a forum for a nonresident plaintiff and a foreign corporation to fight out issues
imported from another state where the cause of action
arose. It seems unnecessary to decide now whether this
litigation could be imposed on the Missouri court, for it
appears to have embraced the litigation. Even if Missouri, by reason of its control of its own courts might refuse to open them to such a case, it does not follow that another state may close Missouri's courts to one with a
federal cause of action. If Missouri elects to entertain the
case, the courts of no other state can obstruct or prevert
its exercise of jurisdiction as conferred by the federal
statute or its right to obtain evidence and to distribute
the proceeds, if any, in accordance with the Federal Employers' Liability Act. I therefore favor reversal.
MR. JusTicE FA~mURTFm,

dissenting:

The decision in this case mutilates principles that have
long been regarded as basic in the law. Few legal doctrines have been more universally accepted than those
recognizing the powers which this Court now denies to
the states when suits under the Federal Employers' Liability Act are brought in state courts: the power of a court
to prevent injustice by restraining a person subject to its

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

70M9

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

authority from maintaining an inequitable suit in the
courts of another state,. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.
107; the right of a court to decline its facilities to a suit
that "in the interest of justice" should be tried elsewhere,
CanadaMalting Co. v. PatersonCo., 285 U. S. 413, 422-23.
The decision disregards the constitutional relationship between the "judicial power" of the federal government and
that of the states whereby state courts enforce federal
rights (when such remedies have not been exclusively entrusted to the federal courts) as part of their "duty to
safeguard and enforce the right of every citizen without
reference to the particular exercise of governmental
power from which the right may have arisen." Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Bombolis, 241 _,U. S. 211,
222.
For a decision so far-reaching in its implications, warrant is found in the inarticulate radiations of § 6 of the
1910 amendment to the Federal Employers' Liability
Act. While the words of a statute do not by themselves
distil its meaning, we must at least begin with them The
language of § 6 is simple and direct. After establishing a
two-year period of limitations, it continues: "Under this
Act an action may be brought in a circuit court of the
United States, in the district of the residence of the defendant, or in which the cause of action arose, or in which
the defendant shall be doing business at the time of commencing such action. The jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States under this Act shall be concurrent with
that of the courts of the several States, and no case arising
under this Act and brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the
United States." 36 Stat. 291.
This is a conventional provision. There is nothing novel
or distinctive about it. Recognition of concurrent jurisdiction in the state courts to vindicate federal rights is
found in the first Judiciary Act of 1789. 1 Stat. 73, 77.

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANxK

TER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

And the statute books are replete with instances in which
Congress has acknowledged the existence of this jurisdiction in the state courts unless explicitly withheld from
them. See the discussion of Mr. Justice Bradley in Claflin
v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 139-43. The essence of § 6 is
merely that the state courts are open to a plaintiff suing
under the Act, and that if he chooses to bring suit in a
state court, the defendant may not remove the cause to a
federal court. So far as language conveys ideas, the Act
affords no intimation that Congress intended anything
more.
We are not of course concerned here, as we were in the
Kepner case, decided the other day, 314 U. S. 44, with an
attempt by a state court to prevent resort to a federal
court. Historically, the problem of interferences, direct
or indirect, between federal and state courts is entirely
separate from the problem of the relations of the state
courts to each other. See Warren, Federaland State Court
Interference, 43 Harv. L. Rev. 345. The question now
before us-relating to the power of a state to enjoin those
subject to its jurisdiction from unjustly resorting to the
courts of a sister state-is an aspect of the latter problem.
In the Kepner case, this Court held only that the provision
of § 6 "filled the entire field of venue in federal courts"
and that what had thus been legislatively given to the
federal courts could not judicially be taken away. The
Kepner decision cast no cloud upon Douglas v. New' York,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377, which sustained the power
of a state to apply the principle of forum non conveniens
to suits under the Act brought in its courts by non-residents. The issue in the case at bar is essentially another
phase of the problem in the Douglas case-whether,
merely by authorizing access to the state courts to enforce
rights created by the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
Congress impliedly repealed pro tanto the means for

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

FRANKFURTER,

711

J., dissenting.

achieving justice which the states customarily employ in
similar cases. Specifically, the question for decision is
this: Has Congress, by providing explicitly that state
courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction of suits under
the Act, withdrawn from each state its recognized power
to enjoin persons within its jurisdiction from bringing a
suit under the Act "contrary to equity and good conscience" in the courts of another state? This question
was wholly outside the scope of the Kepner case. It was
not presented, and was therefore not decided, by that
case.

The relevant circumstances here are these. A resident
of Tennessee was killed in a railroad accident occurring
in Tennessee. The railroad, an Illinois corporation, has
its principal offices in Tennessee. All of the witnesses reside in Tennessee, as do the deceased's legal representatives. But suit was brought in a state court of Missouri,
where the railroad does some business. Finding that the
Missouri suit was "oppressive and inequitable," the Tennessee Court of Appeals sustained the power of the chancellor to restrain the further prosecution of that suit. The
finding that the Missouri suit was "oppressive and inequitable" was challenged by the petitioners neither before us nor in the courts of Tennessee, and the propriety of
the action taken by the Tennessee court, as a matter of
equitable discretion, is not here in issue. We are called
upon to decide only whether Congress has deprived Tennessee of the power which it has asserted in this case.
It is admitted that the courts of Tennessee customarily
exercise this power in situations like the present case. See
American Express Co. v. Fox, 135 Tenn. 489, 187 S. W.
1117. If the accident here had occurred while the deceased was engaged in intrastate commerce, and consequently had not given rise to a right of action under the
federal statute, Tennessee would unquestionably have

712

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANxFURTR,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

had the power to do what she has done here. For while
the Privileges and Immunities Clause, Art. IV, § 2, secures to citizens of other states such right of access to the
courts of a state as that state gives to its own citizens,
Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 148;
McKnett v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., 292 U. S. 230, 233, it
does not take away from a state its historic power to prevent unjust resort to the courts of another state. Cole v.
Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107. Moreover, the Constitution
would not prevent Missouri from declining to entertain a
suit to vindicate a federal right, such as was brought here,
if an action to enforce a similar non-federal right would
also not lie in her courts. The availability of state courts
for the enforcement of federal rights has not resulted in
putting federal rights on any different footing from state
rights. "A state may not discriminate against rights arising under federal laws," McKnett v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry.
Co., supra, at 234, but neither the Constitution nor Congress has compelled the states to discriminate in favor of
federal rights. And this Court has expressly held that the
rights created by the Federal Employers' Liability Act are
not different, in this respect, from other federal rights.
"As to the grant of jurisdiction in the Employers' Liability Act, that statute does not purport to require State
Courts to entertain suits arising under it, but only to empower them to do so, so far as the authority-of the United
States is concerned." Douglas v. New York, N. H. & H.
R. Co., supra,at 387.
The utilization of state courts for the vindication of
federal rights does not require that their established procedures be remodelled or that their customary modes for
administering justice be restricted. "And it was of course
presumably an appreciation of the principles so thoroughly settled which caused Congress in the enactment of
the Employers' Liability Act to clearly contemplate the

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

FRANiKFURT,

713

J., dissenting.

existence of a concurrent power and duty of both Federal
and state courts to -administer the rights conferred by
the statute in accordance with the modes of procedure
prevailing in such courts." Minneapolis & St. Louis R.
Co. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211, 218; and see Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 56. The mere fact
that a federal right is the basis of suit cannot therefore
deprive the state courts of the power to use their customary procedures for the achievement of justice. In simply
taking advantage of the facilities afforded by the courts
of the states, Congress cannot be deemed to have altered
the settled jurisprudence of the states so as to operate
more favorably for federal rights than for similar rights
created by the states themselves. Such drastic inroads
upon the authority of the states should be made only upon
clear Congressional mandate.
The Court finds such a plain command in the Act because Congress has explicitly provided in § 6 that the
jurisdiction of the state courts "shall be concurrent" with
that of the federal c urts. But Congress thereby merely
spelt out what has always been unquestioned constitutional doctrine. "It is a general rule that the grant of
jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that
the jurisdiction is to be exclusive. . . . Upon the state
courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rests the
obligation to guard and enforce every right secured by
the Constitution and laws of the United States whenever
those rights are involved in any suit or proceedings before
them." United States v. Bank of New York Co., 296 U. S.
463, 479; see Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136-37,
Robb v. ionnolly, 1il U. S. 624, 635-37. And in Grubb
v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 281 U. S. 470, 476, the Court
reaffirmed the doctrine that "the state and federal courts
have concurrent jurisdiction of suits of a civil nature
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

States, save in exceptional instances where the jurisdiction has been restricted by Congress to the federal courts."
The source of these formulations is Hamilton's classic
statement in No. 82 of the Federalist (sesquicentennial
ed., p. 536):
"I hold that the State courts will be divested of no part
of their primitive jurisdiction, further than may relate to
an appeal; and I am even of opinion that in every case in
which they were not expressly excluded by the future acts
of the national legislature, they will of course take cognizance of the causes to which those acts may give birth.
This I infer from the nature of judiciary power, and from
the general genius of the system. The judiciary power
of every government looks beyond its own local or
municipal laws, and in civil cases lays hold of all subjects
of litigation betwen parties within its jurisdiction, though
the causes of dispute are relative to the laws of the most
distant part of the globe. . . . When in addition to this
we consider the State governments and the national governments, as they truly are, in the light of kindred
systems, and as parts of ONE WHOLE, the inference seems
to be conclusive, that the State courts would have a concurrent jurisdiction in all cases arising under the laws of
the Union, where it was not expressly prohibited."
Therefore, if Congress had been silent with respect to
the jurisdiction of state courts of suits arising under the
Act, the state courts would still have had such jurisdiction.
If it be -suggested that by articulating what would otherwise have been implied, Congress must have had some purpose, some interest of emphasis, it would be enough to say
that such punctiliousness, and perhaps redundancy, of
phrasing is not uncommon in procedural legislation. -But,
in any event, the legislative history of the 1910 amendment conclusively shows that Congress did not insert this

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

Fn. NmiUTmR,

J., dissenting.

provision in order to cut down the normal powers of state
courts. The concurrent jurisdiction of the state courts
was explicitly defined in order to dissipate an unwarranted
doubt as to the right and duty of state courts to entertain
suits arising under the Act. Congress wanted to avoid
an implication of denial to the state courts of power to
entertain cases under the Act, and not to create an implication of denial to the state courts of their traditional
powers in dealing with such cases.
The Act of 1908 contained no provision specifically
dealing with venue. 35 Stat. 65. On January 7, 1910,
Representative Sterling introduced a bill, H. R. 17263;
that eventually became the 1910 amendment to the Act.
The bill had this provision: "This Act shall not be construed as excluding the exercise of a concurrent
jurisdiction of cases arising under the Act by the courts
of the several States." The House Committee on the
Judiciary reporting on the bill explained its purpose:
"It is proposed to further amend the act by making the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States 'concurrent
with the courts of the several States.'
"This is proposed in order that there shall be no excuse
for courts of the States to follow in the error of . . . Hoxie
v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. [82 Conn. 352] (73 Atlantic
Rep., 754) in which the court declined jurisdiction upon
the ground, inter alia, that Congress did not intend that
jurisdiction of cases arising under the act should be
assumed by state courts.
"It is clear under the decisions of the Supreme Court
of the United States, that this conclusion of the Connecticut court is erroneous. And the reasons recited by
the Connecticut court lead to an opposite conclusion from
that which the opinion declares upon the subject. But
no harm can come, and much injustice and wrong to
suitors may be prevented by an express declaration that

716

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRmxiUrmTF,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

there is no intent on the part of Congress to confine
remedial actions brought under the employers' liability
act to the courts of the United States." H. Rep. No. 513,
61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 7.
The Committee also recommended that the wording of
the provision be changed to read as follows: "The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States under this act
shall be concurrent with that of the courts of the several
States." This language was embodied in the Act.
When the bill came to the floor of the House, Representative Sterling, who was in charge of the measure,
underscored the sole reason for the provision:
"The second change in the law provides that the federal
courts and the state courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction. I am very'sure that they have concurrent
jurisdiction as the law is now, but on account of a decision
of one of the state courts of Connecticut, where one judge
declined to take jurisdiction in a case because it was under
a federal statute, the committee thought best to expressly
provide in the law that the federal courts and the- state
courts should have concurrent jurisdiction. to avoid the
possibility of such a construction in the future." 45
Cong. Rec. 2253.
In reply to a question as to the Committee's purpose in
recommending this provision, "Did you intend to limit the
state courts in any way in this matter?", the answer was,
"Oh, no; just the contrary." 45 Cong. Rec. 2254.
With these authoritative explanations the bill was
passed by the House on February 23, 1910. 45 Cong.
Rec. 2260. It was then sent to the Senate and there referred to its Judiciary Committee. The report of that
Committee repeated in haec verba the explanation of the
provision made by the House Committee. See Sen. Rep.
No. 432, 61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 5. Senator Borah, who
steered the bill in the Senate, said:

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

"The amendment which has been proposed in the latter
portion of section 6 was necessitated, if that term can
properly be used, by reason of a decision of the supreme
court of the State of Connecticut. My individual view
is that the law is now as the amendment attempts to make
it-that is to say, that both the federal and state courts
have jurisdiction of this matter-concurrent jurisdiction.
.. . As I understand the law, unless there is a clause
prohibiting or inhibiting the state court it always has
concurrent jurisdiction with the federal courts in such a
subject-matter as this. The report cites a number of
authorities to this effect. But the supreme court of
Connecticut refused to assume jurisdiction or to take
jurisdiction of the matter, though the well-established
legal principle seems to be absolutely different. I do not
believe this amendment is necessary. I believe it is
thoroughly established that the federal courts and the
state courts have concurrent jurisdiction. But in order
to avoid courts being misled upon this proposition this
specific provision is'thought to be necessary in the law."
45 Cong. Rec. 3995. See also his remarks at 45 Cong.
Rec. 4034-35.
The Court appears to draw comfort from the provision
of the Act prohibiting removal of a suit from a state court
of competent jurisdiction to a federal court. The bill as
passed by the House contained no such provision. It was
offered as an amendment on the floor of the Senate by
Senator Paynter who, in proposing the amendment, made
a few remarks that are unenlightening for present purposes. The amendment was approved by the Senate without further discussion. 45 Cong. Rec. 4093. When the
bill came back to the House, Representative Clayton, a
member of the House Judiciary Committee, explained the
purpose. of this amendment:
"The real amendment [made by tl~e Senate] and the
one that I think is a distinct improvement of the bill,

,718

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

certainly more so than the other two, is to add ....
these
words: 'And no case arising under this act and brought in
any state court of competent jurisdiction shall be removed
to any court of the United States.' And the gentleman,
being, as I am, a states-rights Democrat, will certainly say
that is a decided improvement upon the bill as it originally
passed the House. Furthermore, I say that this amendment will tend to relieve the federal courts of some
litigation which can be as well, if not better, determined in
the courts of the States." 45 Cong. Rec. 4158.
Such a yestriction against removal of litigation normally arising in the state courts is not unique in-the history of
legislation dealing with the business of the lower federal
.courts. Thirty years earlier, Congress had begun to limit
the right of removal to the federal courts. .See, e.g., Act
of July 12, 1882, § 4, 22 Stat. 162, 163; Act of March 3,
:1887, 24 Stat. 552, corrected by Act of August 13, 1888, 25
Stat. 433.. The removal prohibition of the 1910 Act mu~t
b6 regarded as a phase of the movement to ease the pressuie upon the lower federal courts by curtailing access to
them rather than by multiplying unduly the uumber of
federal judges. Nothing warrants the inference that
thereby Congress intended a reversal of the historic relation of state courts to one another.
:That no expression of Congress, nor the purposes re-'vealed by it outside of the language it employed, calls for
a break with the past in giving effect to the 1910 amendment was the conclusion reached by this Court upon the
fullest consideration of the significance of the provision.
"The amendment, as appears by its language," it was held
in the Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.1, 56,
"instead of granting jurisdiction to the, state courts, presupposes that they already possessed it." Later, in the
Douglas case, the Court noted that the amendment "does
not purport to require State Courts to entertain suits
arising under it, but only to empower them to do so, so far

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

719

FINmUnmE, J., dissenting.

as the authority of the United States is conce:ned."

279

U. S. at 387. And again in McKnett's case, 292 U. S. at
233, the Court emphasized that "Congress has not ,attempted to compel states to provide courts for the enforcement of the Federal Employers' Liability Act." In short,
every time the question has arisen this Court has recognized that by the 1910 amendment Congress did not write
a new chapter in judicial history, nor did it modify the
historic function of state courts as agencies for*the enforcement of federal rights employing the same instruments for achieving justice as they employ when enforcing rights having their source in state law.
The Court now holds that, where considerations of
equity and justice are otherwise compelling, § 6 has deprived the 'state courts of the power to enjoin a plaintiff
from pursuing a suit against a carrier in the courts of any
state in which the carrier does business. But a series of
decisions following Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co.,
262 U. S.312, enforces a contrary proposition. In these
cases, notably Denver & R. G. W. R. Co. v. Terte, 284 U. S.
284, and Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mix, 278 U. S.492,
suits against a carrier in a state where it did business were
nevertheless found to constitute an unjustifiable burden
on commerce and therefore could not be maintained. If
Congress had conferred obligatory jurisdiction upon the
state courts, it would have been entirely beyond the province of this Court to hold, as it did in these decisions, that
a suit in a state court which was given "concurrent jurisdiction" by the 1910 amendment constituted a burden on
commerce. To suggest that the grant of "'concurrent
jurisdiction" repealed the historic, powers of equity sanctioned by Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.107, is to imply
that in all these cases the Court disregarded what is now
found to be the right of a plaintiff to resort to a state court,
unhampered by the authority of the state courts to invoke
their familiar equitable powers to restrain oppressive and

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRNFURTER, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

vexatious suits in other state courts. This is to say that
in all these cases over a period of years this Court disregarded the jurisdictional requirements of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Yet the Act was constantly
before the Court, and, it may not be amiss to recall, no
member of this Court, in modern times at least, was more
familiar with and more mindful of jurisdictional requirements than Mr. Justice Brandeis, who spoke for a unanimous Court in both the Davis and Mir cases.
The Court does not now overrule these decisions.
They stand as unchallenged authorities that, in giving the
state courts concurrent jurisdiction of suits under the Act,
Congress did not thereby preclude the application of principles of equity and justice to such suits. These decisions
show clearlythat § 6 did not give the state courts compulsive jurisdiction; it merely conferred authority to be administered in the context of existing law.
The power invoked by Tennessee in this case was a
familiar head of equity jurisdiction long before the Constitution. Injunctions by the chancellor against suits in
other courts go back to at least the late sixteenth century.
See Cliffe v. Tumor, Cary 83 (1579); Chock v. Chea, Cary
83 (1579) ; Tanfield v. Davenport,Tot. 114 (1638) ; Trinick
v. Bordfield, Tot. 117 (1638). When Lord Chancellor
Clarendon in 1677 refused to enjoin a foreign attachment,
Love v. Baker, Ch. Cas. 67, the reporter noted that "all the
bar was of another opinion. It was said, the injunction
did not lie for foreign jurisdictions, nor out of the king's
dominions. But to that it was answered, the injunction
was not to the court, but to the party." The opinion of
the bar soon became the accepted law of England. In the
leading case of Lord Portarlingtonv. Soulby, 3 Myl. & K.
104, Brougham, L. C., expressed the historic doctrine of
equity jurisdiction. Referring to the attitude of the bar
towards Love v. Baker, he commented: "A very sound answer, as it appears to me; for the same argument might

MILES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
698

721

FNUnmni. J., dissenting.

apply to a Court within this country, which no order of
this Court ever affects to bind, our orders being only
pointed at the parties to restrain them from proceeding.
Accordingly, this case of Love v. Baker has not been recognized or followed in later times." 3 Myl. & K. at 107. See
Wharton v. May, 5 Ves. Jr. 27; Kennedy v. Earl of Cassillis, 2 Swans. 313; Harrisonv. Gurney, 2 Jac. & W. 563;
Bushby v. Munday, 5 Madd. 184; Beauchamp v. Marquis
of Huntley, Jac. 546; Eden on Injunctions (1822 ed.) pp. 3
et seq., 101-02.
This doctrine of equitable power has been universally
accepted by American courts. See, e. g., Dehon v. Foster,
4 Allen 545, 550; Cole v. Young, 24 Kan. 435, 438; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Co., 74 N. J. Eq. 457, 473, 71 A.
153. And the power has been exercised by the state courts
generally to enjoin oppressive suits brought under the Act
in other state courts. See Reed's Admrx. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 182 Ky. 455, 206 S. W. 794; Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co. v. McGinley, 175 Wis. 565, 185 N. W. 218; State
ex rel. New York, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Nortoni, 331 Mo.
764,55 S. W. 2d 272; Kern v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry.
Co., 204 Ind. 595, 185 N. E. 446. Of course, since a federal
right is involved, no state court can screen denial of or discrimination against a federal right, under the guise of enforcing its local law. Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Painter,314 U. S. 155, 159-60.
The power of equity to restrain the prosecution of unconscionable suits has been part of the very fabric bf the
state courts as we have known them in our whole history.
And nothing in the Federal Employers' Liability Act, its
language, its history, or its policy, warrants a denial of this
power to the states.
The CHIEF JuSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR.
JUSTICE BYRNES join in this dissent.

