GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
Syllabus.

649

Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 255.
There is no contention or showing here that the tax
assessed is not upon net earnings justly attributable to
Tennessee. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,
supra; cf. Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd. v. Tax Comm'n,
supra;Butler Bros. v. McColgan, ante, p. 501. It does not
appear that upon any theory the tax can be deemed to infringe the commerce clause.
Appeal dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Certiorari
granted and judgment affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

GRAVES ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF NEW YORK, v. SCHMIDLAPP
ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF THE COUNTY. OF
NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 604.

Argued March 12, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment did not preclude the State of New York from taxing the effective exercise, by
the will of a domiciled resident, of a general powei of appointment

of which he was the donee under the will of a resident of Massachusetts, the property, appointed being intangibles held by trustees
under the donor's will. Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v, Doughton,
272 U. S.Z567, overruled. Pp. 660, 665.

2. Control by the State of the donee's domicile over his person and
estate and his duty to'contribute to the support of government there,
afford adequate constitutional basis for the imposition of a tax.
P. 660.

The donee of the power the exercise of which was taxed was also
one of the trustees named by the Massachusetts will; and the paper
evidences of the intangibles, which consisted wholly of receivables

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

and corporate stocks and bonds, were kept by him at the time of his
death and for some years before, in New York, the State of his,

residence. He and other trustees accounted to a Massachusetts
probate court for the administration of the fund.
286 N. Y. 596, 35 N. E. 2d 937, reversed.

to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of NewYork affirming without opinion
an order of the Surrogate's Court of the County of New
York reducing an estate tax assessment. 172 Misc. 426,
15 N. Y. S. 2d 208.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 601,

Mr. MortimerM. Kassell for petitioners.
Mr. Thomas A. Ryan, with whom Mr. Harrison Tweed
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are asked to say whether the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment precludes New York from
taxing the exercise, by a domiciled resident, of a general
testamentary power of appointment of which he was the

donee under the will of a resident of Massachusetts, the
property appointed being intangibles held by trustees
under the donor's will.
Respondents' decedent died a resident of New York,
where his will was probated and letters testamentary were
issued. Decedent's father had previously died a resident
of Massachusetts, where his will had been probated. By
his will the father bequeathed his residuary estate in trust
to divide the trust fund into as many shares as he should

leave children surviving. To his son, the New York decedent, he gave a life estate in one share and a general
power to dispose of that share "by will."
The son was also one of the three testamentary trustees.
For some years they managed the trust property as a
single trust fund, but in 1911 his one-third share was seg-

GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
657

Opinion of the Court.

regated and he was permitted by the other trustees to
manage it as a separate trust, although all continued as
trustees and as such accounted to the Massachusetts Probate Court for the administration of his share of the fund.
From 1918 to 1929 the New York decedent resided in New
York; from then until 1934 he resided in Illinois, when he
returned to New York where he resided until his death in
1937. Throughout he kept in the state of his residence
the paper evidences of the intangibles comprising his
share of the trust. At the time of his death it consisted
wholly of receivables and corporate stocks and bonds. By
his will decedent appointed his share of the trust fund to
his widow, and the New York tax authorities, in computing the tax, included in the decedent's gross estate the intangibles bequeathed to her under the power.
Article 10-C of the New York tax law, by ยง 249-n, imposes an estate tax "upon the transfer of the net estate"
of resident decedents. Under this statute the net taxable
estate is arrived at by deducting from the gross estate, as
defined by ยง 249-r, the specified deductions allowed by
ยง 249-s. Section 249-r, so far as relevant, provides:
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his death
of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible,
wherever situated .
"7. To the extent of any property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent (a)
by will. .
An order of the New York Surrogate's Court, 172 Misc.
426, 15 N. Y. S. 2d 208, reduced the estate tax assessed
against the decedent's estate by excluding-from his gross
estate the share of the trust fund passing to the widow by
the exercise of the power, on the ground that the state was
without constitutional authority to tax the exercise by. aresident donee of a power of appointment created by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

nonresident donor, citing Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v.
Doughton,272 U. S. 567. The New York Court of Appeals
affirmed the order without opinion, 286 N. Y. 596, 35 N. E.
2d 937, but certified by its remittitur that it held that the
taxing statute, as sought to be applied in this proceeding,
violates the Fourteenth Amendment. We granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 601, because of the importance of the
question presented.
For purposes of estate and inheritance taxation, the
power to dispose of property at death is the equivalent of
ownership. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Whitney
v. Tax Comm'n, 309 U.S. 530, 538; see Gray, Rule Against
Perpetuities, 3d ed. 1916, ยง 524. It is a potential source of
wqalth to the appointee. The disposition of wealth effected by its exercise or relinquishment at death is one
form of the enjoyment of wealth and is an appropriate subject of taxation. The power to tax "is an incident of sovereignty, and. s coextensive with that to which it is an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign power of a
State extends are objects of taxation." McCulloch v.
Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,429. Intangibles, which are legal
relationships between persons and which in fact have no
,geographical location, are so associated with the owner
that they and their transfer at death are taxable at the
place of his domicile, where his person and the exercise of
his property rights are subject to the control of the sovereign power. His transfer of interests in intangibles, by
-virtue of the exercise of a donated power instead of that
derived from ownership, stands on the same footing. In
both cases the sovereign's control over his person and
estate at the place of his domicile, and his duty to contribute to the financial support of government there, afford adequate constitutional basis for the imposition of a
tax. Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357; cf. Graves v.
Elliott, 307 U. S. 383.

GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
657

Opinion of the Court.

These were not novel propositions, when they were restated in the McCanless and Elliott cases,1 and they were
challenged then, though unsuccessfully, only on the ground
that the transfer of the intangibles was subject to taxation
in another state where they were held in trust. But the
contention that the due process clause forecloses taxation
of an interest ini intangibles by the state of its owner when
they are held in trust in another state was rejected in Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625. In that case, a fund had
been given in trustreserving to the donor a general power
of revocation and the disposition of the trust income during life. This Court held that upon his death an inheritance tax could be levied by the state of his domicile
although the trustee and the trust fund were outside the
state.
In numerous other cases the jurisdiction to tax the use
and enjoyment of interests in intangibles, regardless of
the location of the paper evidences of them, has been
thought to depend on no factor other than the domicile of
the owner within the taxing state. And it has been held
that they may be constitutionally taxed there even though
in some instances they may be subject to taxation in other
jurisdictions, to whose control they are'subject and whose
legal protection they eijoy.2 And such interests taxable
1

See Orr v. Gilman, 183 U..S. 278; Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466;
Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall,276 U. S.
260, 271; cf. Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 345; Chase
National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327, 337; Tyler v. Unted
States, 281 U. S. 497, 503; Porterv. Commissioner, 288 U. S. 436, 444.
'See Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491; Hawley 'v. Ma'den, 232
U. S. 1; Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325; Blodgett
v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1; Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293
U. S. 15; FirstBank Stock Corp. v. Minnesota, 301 U. S. 234, 239-40,
and cases cited; Stewart v. Pennsylvania,338 Pa. 9, affirmed 312 U. S.
649; cf. Carpenter v. Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456 (before Fourteenth
Amendment); also Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,280 U. S.

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

at the domicile of the owner have been deemed to include
the exercise or relinquishment of a power to dispose of intangibles. Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466; Bullen v.
Wisconsin, supra;cf. Orrv. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall,276 U. S. 260.
Decedent's complete and exclusive power to dispose of
the intangibles at death was property in his hands in New
York, where he was domiciled. Graves v. Elliott, supra.
He there made effective use of the power to bestow his
bounty on the widow. !ts exercise by his will to make a
gift was as much an enjoyment of a property right as
would have been a like bequest to his widow from his own
securities. See Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, 117. For
such enjoyment of property rights, through resort to New
York law, decedent was under the highest obligation to
contribute to the support of the government whose protection he enjoyed in common with other residents. Taxation of such enjoyment of the power to dispose of property is as much within the constitutional power of the
state of his domicile as is the taxation of the transfer at
death of intangibles which he owns.
Since it is the exercise of the power to dispose of the intangibles which is the taxable event, the mere fact that
the power was acquired as a donation from another is without significance. We can perceive no ground for saying
that its exercise by the donee is for that reason any the less
the enjoyment of a property right, or any the less subject
to taxation at his domicile. The source of the power by
gift no more takes its exercise by the donee out of the
taxing power than the like disposition of a chose in action
204; Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586; Beidler v. South Carolina,282
U. S. 1 (all recognizing the power of the state of domicile to tax). In
the case of income taxation, see Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286
U. S. 276; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308; Guaranty

Trust Co. v. Virginia, 305 U. S. 19.

GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
657

Opinion of the Court.

or a share of stock, ownership of which is acquired by
gift.
But respondents argue that because here the power was
bequeathed by a Massachusetts will, which placed the intangibles subject to the power in a Massachusetts trust,
there was nothing within the jurisdiction or control of
New York which could be deemed subject to its taxing
power. If by this is meant that the power was ineffective
because its exercise by the New York will did not conform
to the requirements of the will creating the power and defining the manner of its exercise, or to the laws of Massachusetts governing the disposition of intangibles, no such
question is before us. We must take it that the New York
courts assumed, as we do, that the power had been so exercised by the New York will as to confer on the widow
the right to demand the property of the trustees in Massachusetts, and that even upon that assumption they held
that the exercise of the power in New York could not constitutionally be taxed.
Whether the New York tax statute would apply if the
New York will were ineffective to transfer the intangibles
because it failed to comply with the requirements of the
Massachusetts will or statutes, is for the New York courts
to decide. Whether in such a case the statute could be
constitutionally so applied is a question not presented by
the record. But if, as is assumed, the power has been effectively exercised, the New York will is the implement
of its exercise, made effective as a will by New York law
whose aid the decedent invoked for the exercise and enjoyment of the property right conferred on him by the
Massachusetts will. Its exercise is a subject over which
the sovereign power of taxation extends.
Admittedly, under prevailing notions of -choice of law
in the courts of these two states, the law of the donor's
domicile, here Massachusetts, may be looked to in New

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

York in determining whether, in some respects at least,
there has been a valid and effective execution of the power
of appointment. Sewall v. Wilmer, 132 Mass. 131;
Hogarth-Swann v. Weed, 274 Mass. 125,130,174 N. E. 314;
Hillen v. Iselin, 144 N. Y. 365, 378, 39 N. E. 368; In re New
York Life Ins. & Trust Co., 209 N. Y. 585, 103 N. E. 315.
But a transfer which has in fact been effected-by recourse
in part to the law of New York is not free of taxation there
because the power might have been exercised elsewhere or
by some other mode, or because it may be necessary for
the transferee to invoke the laws of "Massachusetts in order to acquire control of the property. A transfer in one
state of a chose in action or a share of stock may be taxed
there even though the transferee in order to enjoy its benefits must depend in part upon the law of the state of the
debtor or of the corporation. Blodgett v. Silberman, 277
U. S. 1, 10-17. Here the relationship of the power to Massachusetts does not leave New York without sufficient
control over the donee and his exercise of the power to
support its constitutional authority to tax. For the fact
remains that he, as a resident enjoying the protection of
New York's laws and owing to it the duty of financial support, has disposed of wealth by a will executed and probated in New York with the same result as if he had owned
the property. This transmission of wealth at death by a
resident is not a forbidden source of revenue to the
state.
Wachovia Trust Co. v. Doughton, supra, on which respondents rely, denied the constitutional power of a state
to tax the effective exercise of a testamentary power in circumstances like the present. The only grounds for the
decision were that the intangibles held in trust in another
state, which were the subject of the power, had no situs in
the state where the domiciled testator had exercised the
power by his will; that its exercise was subject to the laws

GRAVES v. SCHMIDLAPP.
657

Opinion of the Court.

of Massachusetts where the will donating the power and
establishing the trust had been probated, and that no
"right" exercised by the donee was conferred by the state
of his domicile where it was exercised.
The conclusion there reached and the reasons advanced
in its support cannot be reconciled with the decision and
the reasoning of the Bullen, the McCanless and the Elliott
cases. It is plain that if appropriate emphasis be placed
on the orderly administration of justice rather than blind
adherence to conflicting precedents, the Wachovia case
must be overruled. There is no reason why the state
should continue to be deprived of revenue from a subject
which from the beginning has been within the reach of its
taxing power; a subject over which we cannot say the
state's control has been curtailed by the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. No interest which could
be served by so rigid an adherence to stare decisis is superior to the demands of -asystem of justice based on a considered and a consistent application of the Constitution.
See Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406,
footnote 1; and' cf. Helvering v. Mountain Producers
Corp., 303 U. S. 376, 387. The Wachovia case should be
and now is overruled and the constitutional power of New
York to levy the present tax is sustained.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in the result only because
he considers himself bound by the decisions in Curry v.
McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, and Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S.
383. Otherwise he would vote to affirm.

