OCTOBER TERM, 1041.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

its agreement with the Government's objection to the District Court's refusal to admit evidence of petitioner's
condition subsequent to December 9, 1935, the date on
which petitioner was adjudged incompetent by the county
probate court." We think that the District Court's ruling
was erroneous, but there is nothing to show that it was
seriously prejudicial to the Government. Neither in the
District Court nor in this Court has the Government sug-.
gested its ability to produce evidence from the period
subsequent to 1935 which would substantially alter the
state of the record.
The case is remanded to permit the reinstatement of the
judgment of the District Court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SOUTHPORT PETROLEUM CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67.

Argued January 5, 1942.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. An application to the Circuit Court of Appeals, under § 10 (e)
of the National Labor Relations Act, for leave to adduce additional
evidence before the Board, is addressed to the sound discretion of
the Court. P. 104.

2. A Labor Board order required a Texas corporation, its officers,
agents, successors and assigns, to desist from certain unfair labor
practices; to offer reinstatement to employees found to have been
discriminatorily discharged; to grant them back pay; to post
certain notices at its Texas refinery, etc. Pending a petition of
the Board to enforce the order, the corporation applied to the
court under § 10 (e) of the. Act for leave to adduce additional
TThe

same ruling was embodied in the instructions to the jury.

SOUTHPORT CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
100

Opinion of the Court.

evidence before the Board, averring that it had distributed all of
its assets to its four stockholders as a liquidating dividend, and
that two of them, who had received the Texas refinery in which the
unfair labor practices were employed, had conveyed it to a newly
organized Delaware corporation whose stockholders were at no
time stockholders of the employer corporation; and later, in its
answer, it alleged that it had very recently been dissolved pursuant
to the statutes of Texas and prayed a dismissal of the Board's
petition upon that ground. Held, under these circumstances and
others disclosed by the record, that denial of the application to
adduce additional evidence was not error. P. 104.
117 F. 2d 90, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 558, to review a decree directing

the enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations Board, and therein denying a motion for leave to
adduce additional evidence.
Mr. Harry Dow, with whom Mr. Morris D. Meyer was

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Laurence A. Knapp and Morris P.
Glushien were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, a Texas corporation, was ordered by
the National Labor Relations Board in August of 1938 to
cease and desist from unfairlabor practices; ' to offer to
'Section 1 of the Board's order required that .the petitioner cease
and desist from:
"(a) Discouraging membership in Oil Workers International Union,
Local No. 227, or in any other labor organization of its employees, by
discharging its employees or by otherwise discriminating in regard to
hire or tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment;
"(b) In any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing
its employees in the exercise of the right to self-organization, to form,

join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through repre-

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

reinstate three employees found to have been discrimiiiatorily discharged, and to pay them back pay for the
period from the time of discharge to the date of the offer of
reinstatement, less earnings during such period; and to
post certain notices at its Texas City refinery, where the
unfair labor practices had been employed.
The petitioner has never obeyed any of the affirmative
directions of the order. In June. of 1939 it entered into a
written stipulation with the Board that it would obey the
order except as it related to back pay, and the Board stipulated on its part that it would accept the performance so
promised as sufficient compliance with its order. But the
petitioner no more regarded its own promise than it had
the Board's command. It finally ceased even to answer
communications from the Board, and the latter, in April
of 1940, filed its petition with the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit for enforcement of its order.
The petitioner then began the pleas to that court, denial of which it says are errors. Nearly four months after
the Board had filed its petition, the present petitioner filed
an application, under § 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act,2 to adduce additional evidence before the Board.
sentatives of their own choosing, or to engage in concerted activities for
the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection,

as guaranteed in Section 7 of the Act."
We do not consider the question whether, in the rather unusual
circumstances of this case, the order should be modified as being unduly broad in this respect, see National Labor Relations Board v.
Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, snce this question was not considered or raised in the court below or in the petition for certiorari.
Alice State Bank v. Houston PastureCo., 247 U. S.240, 242; Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 98; Zellerbach Paper Co. v. Helvering, 293
If. S. 172, 182.
'This provides in pertinent part as follows: "If either party shall
apply to the court for leave to adduce additional evidence and shall
show to the satisfaction of the court that such additional evidence
is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to

SOUTHPORT CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
100

Opinion of the Court.

The application stated on the oath of petitioner's president that in June of 1939, three days after petitioner had
executed the stipulation of obedience to the Board's order,
it distributed all of its assets to its four stockholders as
a liquidating dividend; and that the two stockholders who
received the Texas City refinery conveyed it to a newly
organized Delaware corporation whose stockholders were
at no time tockholders of the Texas corporation. It asked
that the court order that proof of these facts be taken

before the Board or its agent and added to the transcript,
and that the court thereupon dismiss the enforcement proceeding. In November of 1940, while this application
was pending, it filed an answer to the petition for enforce-

ment, attacking the findings and order of the Board on evi-

dentiary grounds, and also praying that the petition be
dismissed because petitioner had been formally dissolved
on October 16, 1940, as evidenced by an attached copy of

a certificate by the Texas Assistant Secretary of State.'
adduce such evidence in the hearing before the Board, its member,
agent, or agency, the court may order such additional evidence to be
taken before the Board, its member, agent, or agency, and to be made
a part of the transcript." 49 Stat. 449, 454; 29 U. S. C. (Supp. V)
§ 160 (e).
Texas provides by statute that:
"Art. 1888. Liquidation by offiers.-Upon the dissolution of a
corporation, unless a receiver is appointed by some court of competent
jurisdiction, the president and directors or managers of the affairs of
the corporation at the time of its dissolution shall be. trustees of the
creditors and stockholders of such corporation, with power to settle the
affairs, collect the outstanding debts, and divide the moneys and
other property among the stockholders after paying the debts due and
owing by such corporation at the time of its dissolution, as far as such
money and property will enable them after paying all just and reasonable expenses; and for this purpose they may in the name of such
corporation, sell, convey and transfer all real and personal property
belonging to such company, collect all debts, compromise controversies, maintain or defend judicial proceedings, and exercise full power
and authority of said company over such assets and property. Said

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the Board's
order and entered a decree directing that it be enforced,
thus in effect denying the motion to dismiss and the application for leave to adduce additional evidence. 117 F. 2d
90. We granted certiorari limited to the question of the
propriety of the denial of the latter because of the general
importance of the question.
We hold that the application for leave to adduce additional evidence pursuant to § 10 (e) of the National Labor
Relations Act was addressed to the sound judicial discretion of the court, and that the denial of petitioner's application under the circumstances disclosed by the record
in this case was not error.
To ensure that the applicable part of § 10 (e) would be
used only for proper purposes, and not abused by resort to
it as a mere instrument of delay, Congress provided that
before the court might grant relief thereunder it must be
satisfied of the materiality of the additional evidence, and
that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce
it at the hearing before the Board. The decision below
under § 10 (e) apparently resulted solely from a belief that
trustees shall be severally responsible to the creditors and stockholders
of such corporation to the extent of its property and effects that
shall have come into their hands.
"Art. 1389. Extension of existence.-Tbe existence of every corporktion may be continued for three years after its dissolution from
whatever cause, for the purpose of enabling those charged with the
duty,, to settle up its affairs. In case a receiver is appointed by a
court for this purpose, the existence of such corporation. may be continued by the court so long as in its discretion it is necessary to suitably settle the affairs of such corporation.
"Art. 1890. Effect of dissolution.-The dissolution of a corporation
shall not operate to abate, nor be construed as abating any pending
suit in which such corporation is a defendant. but such suit shall
continue against such corporation and judgment shall be rendered
as though he same were not dissolved." 3 Vernpn's Annotated Texas
Statutes (Civil Statutes).

SOUTHPORT CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
100

Opinion of the Court.

the proffered evidence was not "material." Accordingly,
we have no occasion to decide whether a Circuit Court of
Appeals may in its discretion deny an application under
§ 10 (e) even though it be satisfied that the additional
evidence is material and that there were reasonable
grounds for failure to adduce it in the hearing before the
Board. For the same reason we do not consider the question of the credibility of petitioner's allegations, viewed
in the light of its conduct.
The petitioner's conduct does, however, give point to
omissions of pertinent facts from its allegations. The
record makes it certain that it would gain delay by all
honorable means and leaves it doubtful whether it has
even stopped at that. The liquidation relied upon took
place three days after it had entered into the stipulation
of obedience. The purpose to liquidate was not communicated to the Board, nor was the Board advised of
the action when taken, nor until nearly four months after
the petition for enforcement was filed in the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
The statements that the Texas corporation has discontinued operations and that the Delaware corporation has
taken over the refinery did not call for recommitment by
the Circuit Court of Appeals to the Board for reconsideration of that part of its order which required that the three
employees be offered reinstatement. The allegation in
the application that the "owners of the stock of Southport
Petroleum Company of Delaware, were never the owners
of any of the stock of the iespondent herein," does not
negative either the possibility that the stock in the Delaware corporation represents but an insubstantial part of
its total capitalization, with the balance and real control
being held by the Texas corporation or its stockholders, or
that its stock was held by straw men. A sworn statement
in the answer to the Board's petition that the Delaware
corporation "is a separate and distinct entity and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

stockholders in respondent have no interest, and never had
any interest, directly or indirectly, in the stock ownership
of the said Delaware corporation, all as set out in respondent's motion heretofore filed herein," if it adds anything,
does not add enough to negative these possibilities, for the
court was not required to be satisfied with such conclusions
of the petitioner.
Implicit in the reinstatement provision of the Board's
order was a condition of the continued operation by the
offending employer of the refinery to the employment of
which the illegally discharged employees were to be
restored." Such operation might have continued under
the old business form or under a disguise intended to evade
this provision. If there was merely a change in name or
in apparent control there is no reason to grant the petitioner relief from the Board's order of reinstatement; instead there is added ground for compelling obedience.
Whether there was a bona fide discontinuance and a true
change of owriership-which would terminate the duty of
reinstatement created by the Board's order-or merely a
disguised continuance of the old employer, does not clearly
appear, and accordingly is a question of fact properly to be
resolved by the Board on direct resort to it, or by the court
if contempt proceedings are instituted.5
The additional evidence was immaterial for the further
reason that the Board's order ran not only to the petitioner,
but also to its "officers, agents, successors, and assigns." 6
'The order required that the employees be reinstated "to their
former positions, without prejudice to their seniority and other rights
and privileges."
"Such proceedings may be instituted only by the Board. Amalgamated Utility Workers v. ConsolidatedEdison Co., 309 U. S.261.
'This is the usual form of order, and has frequently been employed
in cases where this Court has sustained Board orders. E. g., Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305 U. S.

SOUTHPORT CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
100

107

Opinion of the Court.

Granting the truth of every one of petitioner's allegations,
it still is possible that the Board's order may yet be the
basis-and the indispensable basis--of liability on the
part of any of these persons, regardless of aniy present incapacity of petitioner to perform, or liability on its part
for failure to perform, its duty of reinstatement. Of
course, we do not pass on the question whether any such
liability actually exists; all we hold is that there has not
been a sufficient showing by the petitioner to negative the
possibility which we note.
The petitioner's allegations are immaterial with respect
to the back pay provision in the Board's order for like
reasons and because some liability in this respect unquestionably exists, although for a disputed period of time.
And, from what we have said, it is apparent that the
petitioner has not shown that there has been any change
in its relations to the refinery such as to indicate any
alteration of the Board's order in respect of its requirements that petitioner post notices at "its Texas City,
Texas, refinery," and that it desist from unfair labor
practices.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE ROBERTS took no part'in the consideration
or decision of this case.
197, enforcing, as modified, 4 N. L. R. B. 71, 108; National Labor
Relations oBoard v. Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co., 308
U. S.. 241, enforcing 8 N. L. R. B. 866, 877; National Labor Relations
Board v. Falk Corporation,308 U. S. 453, enforcing 6 N. L. R. B. 654,
66.6; National Labor Relations Board v. Waterman Steamship Corp.,
309 U. S. 206, enforcing 7 N. L. R. B. 237, 252; National Labor Relations Board v. Link-Belt Co., 311 U. S. 584, enforcing 12 N. L. R. B.
854, 883; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. National Labor Relations Board, 313
U. S. 177, enforcing, as-modified, and remanding 19 N. L. R. B. 547,

603,
[Over.]

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
RmE,
.

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

MR. JusTIcE REED, dissenting:

The record does not lead me to the conclusion that petitioner has taken any improper steps to secure leave to
adduce additional evidence, the matter to which the certiorari was limited by our grant. It is plain that the Circuit Court of Appeals did not act on any such ground.
Neither the record on that issue nor the Government's
brief or argument make any such contention. Only after
evidence before the Board would it seem proper for a
court to form its opinion of that question.
So far as we now know, the petitioner sold its facilities
in good faith, after the entry of the Board's order and
prior to its motion to remand, thus divesting itself of all
interest or control over its former properties. In that
situation it asked a remand to the Board to present before
the Board the change of conditions because of which it
asked a dismissal of the proceedings. § 10 (e), 49 Stat.
453. There were two literally unconditional provisions of
the order which petitioner,.if its allegations are true, could
not meet, 2 (a) and (c):
"2. Take the following affirmative action which the
Board finds will effectuate the policies of the Act:
(a) Offer to William Cornish, E. D. Richey, and Earl
Gooch immediate and full reinstatement to their former
positions, without prejudice to their seniority and other
rights and privileges;
(c) Post immediately notices in conspicuous places at
its Texas City, Texas, refinery stating that the respondent
will cease and desist in the manner aforesaid, and maintain
said notices for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days
from the date of posting;"
In its brief, respondent, it seems to me, admits the correctness of petitioner's view. It says:

SOUTHPORT CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
ion

RFm, J., dissenting.

"In its application to adduce evidence petitioner alleged
that by reason of its distribution of assets and discontinuation of business it could not reinstate any employees.
Thereafter in its petition for rehearing in the court below
and petition for certiorari in this Court, petitioner maintained that it could not do so unless, as it suggested, the
order required it to purchase and operate another refinery
or otherwise resume business. Properly construed (cf.
Federal Trade Commission v. StandardEducationSociety,
302 U. S. 112, 117-118), the order contains no such requirement. Its purpose was to remedy petitioner's violations
of the Act by restoring the status quo as it existed prior
to the violations, but only to the extent possible under the
circumstances existing at the time of compliance, assuming that the circumstances were not changed through
any bad faith on petitioner's part. See National Labor
Relations Board v. Remington Rand, Inc., 97 F. 2d 195,
196-197 (C. C. A. 2). That the men were to be offered
reinstatement 'to their former positions' is, express indication that the reinstatement provision was contingent
upon continued operation of the Texas City refinery. This
likewise appears to have been true of paragraph 2 (c) of
,the order requiring the posting of notices 'at its Texas
City, Texas, refinery.'"
We cannot treat this suggestion as relieving this petitioner of the threat of contempt proceedings. The statement does not consent to the amendment of the order.
Bad faith may still be claimed to exist. This should be
determined by the Board. Consequently, I am of the
opinion that the decree below should be reversed with
directions to sustain the motion for a remand unless the
Board agrees to eliminate §§ 2 (a) and (c) of the order, in
line with the Board's apparent concession in its brief.
The CHiEF JusiIcE concurs in this dissent.

