OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION ET AL.
v. RADIOFONE, INC.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-368. Decided October 25, 1995
The Federal Communications Commission's application to vacate the Sixth
Circuit's stay preventing the FCC from taldng any action in furtherance
of a nationwide auction of a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum is
granted. Allowing the auction to proceed will not defeat the Sixth Circuit's power to grant appropriate relief in a pending challenge to FCC
regulations that prevent respondent from bidding for 3 of the 493 icenses available.

Moreover, the harm to the public caused by a nation-

wide postponement of the auction would outweigh the possible harm
to respondent.
JUSTICE STEVENS, Circuit Justice.

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has applied to me in my capacity as Circuit Justice for the Sixth
Circuit to vacate a stay entered by the Court of Appeals on
October 18, 1995. The stay prevented the FCC from taking
any action in furtherance of a nationwide auction of a portion
of the electromagnetic spectrum. Apparently, the Court of
Appeals feared that completion of the auction would moot a
challenge pending before it to FCC regulations that prevent
respondent from bidding for 3 of the 493 licenses available.
I am persuaded, however, that allowing the national auction
to go forward will not defeat the power of the Court of Appeals to grant appropriate relief in the event that respondent
overcomes the presumption of validity that supports the
FCC regulations and prevails on the merits. I am also persuaded that the harm to the public caused by a nationwide
postponement of the auction would outweigh the possible
1301

1302

FCC v. RADIOFONE, INC.
Opinion in Chambers

harm to respondent. I should point out that because respondent has not filed an opposition to the application, my
opinion is based on the factual representations in the FCC's
papers.
Accordingly, the application to vacate the stay is granted.

