OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Per Curiarn

ATTWOOD v. SINGLETARY, SECRETARY, FLORIDA
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 95-6710. Decided January 22, 1996
In November 1995, this Court twice invoked Rule 39.8 to deny petitioner
Attwood informa pauperis status. All seven petitions he had filed at
that time and the two he has filed since were patently frivolous and
were denied without recorded dissent.
Held. For the reasons discussed in Martin v. Districtof Columbia Court
of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, Attwood is denied leave to proceed in forma
pauperisin the instant case, and the Clerk is directed not to accept any
further petitions for certiorari from him in noncriminal matters unless
he pays the required docketing fee and submits his petition in compliance with this Court's Rule 33. This order will not prevent Attwood
from petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might be imposed
against him, but it will allow this Court to devote its limited resources
to the claims of petitioners who have not abused the certiorari process.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Robert Attwood requests leave to proceed in forma pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We
deny this request pursuant to Rule 39.8. Attwood is allowed until February 12, 1996, within which to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in
compliance with this Court's Rule 33. We also direct the
Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari from
Attwood in noncriminal matters unless he pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33.
Attwood has abused this Court's certiorari process. In
November 1995, we twice invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Attwood
in forma pauperis status. See Attwood v. Smith and Attwood v. Palm Beach Post, post, p. 963. At that time, Attwood had filed seven petitions in this Court during the prior

ATTWOOD v. SINGLETARY
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

year, and he has fied two since. All were patently frivolous
and were denied without recorded dissent.
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992). Attwood's abuse of the writ of
certiorari has been in noncriminal cases, and so we limit our
sanction accordingly. The order will not prevent Attwood
from petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might
be imposed against him. The order will, however, allow this
Court to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who have not abused our certiorari process.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
Because experience with the administration of orders like
the one the Court is entering in this case today has merely
reinforced my conviction that our "limited resources" would
be used more effectively by simply denying petitions that
are manifestly frivolous, I respectfully dissent. Perhaps one
day reflection will persuade my colleagues to return to "the
great tradition of open access that characterized the Court's
history prior to its unprecedented decisions in In re McDonald, 489 U. S. 180 (1989) (per curiam), and In re Sindram,
498 U. S. 177 (1991) (per curiam)." See Martin v. District
of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
JUSTICE STEVENS,

