OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

372 U. S.

PARKER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 516.

Decided April 1, 1963.

Judgmeni vacated and case remanded to District Court with instructions to dismiss indictment.
Reported below: 307 F. 2d 585.

Francis Heisler for petitioner.
Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General
Miller, Ralph S. Spritzer,Beatrice Rosenberg and Richard
W. Schmude for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

Upon suggestion of the Solicitor General the judgment
is vacated and the case is remanded to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois with
instructions to dismiss the indictment.

DUGAN v. RANK.

609

Syllabus.

DUGAN

ET AL.

v. RANK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued January 7, 1963.-Decided April 15, 1963.*

Respondents, who are claimants to water rights along the San Joaquin
River below the Friant Dan in California, brought suit against the
United States, local officials of the United States Bureau of Reclamation, and a number of irrigation and utility districts to enjoin
the storing and diversion of water at the dam, which is part of the
Central Valley Reclamation Project, authorized by Congress and
undertaken by the Bureau of Reclamation under the Act of August
26, 1937, 50 Stat. 844. The suit was brought originally in a State
Court and was removed to a Federal District Court. Held:
1. The McCarran amendment, 66 Stat. 560, granting consent to
join the United States as a defendant in any suit "for the adjudica•tion of rights to the use of water of a river system or other source,"
is not applicable here, since all claimants to water rights along the
river Were not made parties, no relief was asked as between claimants, and priorities were not sought to be established as to the appropriative and prescriptive rights aiserted. Therefore the United
States has not consented to be made a party defendant in this suit,
and it must be dismissed from the suit for want of jurisdiction.
Pp. 617-619.
2. The United States was empowered to acquire the water rights
of respondints by physical seizure; the officials of the Bureau of
Reclamation did not act beyond the scope of their authority; their
alleged interference with the claimed rights of respondents would
not be a trespass but a partial taking for which the United States
would be required to compensate respondents; the suit to enjoin
these officials aitually was a suit against the United States; and it
must be dismissed as to these officials. Pp. 611, 619-623.
3. If respondents have valid water rights which have been interfered with or partially taken, their remedy is not the stoppage of
this government reclamation project but a suit.against the United
States under the Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1346, for damages,
*Together with No. 115, Delano-EarlimartIrrigationDistrict et al.
v. Rank et al., on certiorari to the same Court.
692-437 0-63-43

