OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

372 U. S.

NATIONAL MOTOR FREIGHT TRAFFIC ASSOCIA-

TION, INC.,

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 479.

Decided February 25, 1963.

1. Petition for rehearing denied.
2. In affirming, 371 U. S. 223, the District Court's judgment dismissing appellants' action to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, this Court affirmed the District Court's
judgment insofar as it upheld the Commission's order on the merits;
but this Court disagreed with the District Court's view that appellants lacked standing to challenge the Commission's order in the

District Court.
3. Since appellants, authorized associations of motor carriers under
49 U. S. C. ยง 5b, are appropriate representatives of their members,
and their members would be aggrieved by the Commission's order,
appellants had standing to challenge the validity of the Commission's order in the District Court.
Reported below: 205 F. Supp. 592.

Bryce Rea, Jr. and Frederick A. Babson, Jr. for appellants.

Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General
Loevinger, Robert B. Hummel, Robert W. Ginnane and
Fritz R. Kahn for the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
D. Robert Thomas, Harry C. Ames, Sr., Giles Morrow,

S. Sidney Eisen and James L. Givan for appellee freight

forwarders.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for rehearing is denied. However, we
think we should make clear the basis upon which our per
curiam order affirmed the judgment of the District Court.

NATIONAL MOTOR FREIGHT ASSN. v. U.S.
246

247

Per Curiam.

371 U. S. 223. The District Court dismissed appellants'
action to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission on two grounds: (1) that the appellants
lacked standing to challenge the Commission's order in the
District Court; (2) that the appellants' challenge to the
Commission's order was without merit. Our per curiam
order affirmed the District Court's judgment insofar as
it upheld the validity of the Commission's order on the
merits. We disagreed that appellants lacked standing to
challenge the Commission's order in the District Court.
The appellants are associations of motor carriers, authorized under 49 U. S. C. ยง 5b, and perform significant functions in the administration of the Interstate Commerce
Act, including the representation of member carriers in
proceedings before the Commission. Since individual
member carriers of appellants will be aggrieved by the
Commission's order, and since appellants are proper representatives of the interests of their members, appellants
have standing to challenge the validity of the Commission's order in the District Court. See Administrative
Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. ยง 1009 (a); FCC v. Sanders
Bros. Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470; NAACP v. Alabama
ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S. 449, 459.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurs in the denial of the. petition for rehearing and in the affirmance of the judgment
of the District Court insofar as that judgment refused to
set aside the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. He believes, however, that the question of "standing" should not be decided without plenary consideration.
MR. JUSTICE

rehearing.

STEWART

would grant the petition for

