SIMLER v. CONNER.
Per Curiam.

SIMLER v. CONNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 59.

Argued January 9-10, 1963.-Decided February 18, 1963.

1. In a diversity of citizenship action in a Federal District Court,
federal law governs in determini-g whether the plaintiff is entitled
to a jury trial. P. 222.
2. Although the action in this case was in form a declaratory judgment
action, it was in basic character a suit to determine and adjudicate
the amount of fees owing to a lawyer by a client under a contingent
fee contract; it was "legal," not "equitable," in character, and the
plaintiff was entitled to a jury trial. P. 223.
295 F. 2d 534, reversed.

John B. Ogden argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
Peyton Ford argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was Leslie L. Conner, respondent, pro se.
PER CURIAM.

This Court granted certiorari, 368 U. S. 966, to review
the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit,
holding that in a diversity action in the Federal District
Court, state law, here that of Oklahoma, governs in determining whether an action is "legal" or "equitable" for the
purpose of deciding whether a claimant has a right to a
jury trial. Applying Oklahoma law, the Court of Appeals
decided that a jury trial, although asked for by petitioner,
was not here appropriate. 295 F. 2d 534.
In this Court respondent frankly concedes that, contrary to the Court of Aopeals holding, federal law governs
in determining the right to a jury trial in the federal
courts. Respondent seeks to sustain the result reached
by the Court of Appeals, however, on the twin grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

372 U. S.

that, applying federal law, no jury was required in this
case because (1) the District Court properly granted summary judgment for respondent under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and (2) the present action
is "equitable" and not "legal" in character.
We agree with respondent that the right to a jury trial
in the federal courts is to be determined as a matter of
federal law in diversity as well as other actions. The federal policy favoring jury trials is of historic and continuing
strength. Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 446-449; Scott
v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106; Byrd v. Blue Ridge Rural Electric
Cooperative, Inc., 356 U. S. 525, 537-539; Beacon Theatres, Inc., v. Westover, 359 U. S. 500; Dairy Queen, Inc.,
v. Wood, 369 U. S.469. Only through a holding that the
jury-trial right is to be determined according to federal
law can the uniformity in its exercise which is demanded
by the Seventh Amendment* be achieved. In. diversity
cases, of course, the substantive dimension of the claim
asserted finds its source in state law, Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.64; see Cities Service Oil Co. v. Dunlap,
308 U. S.208; Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U. S.109, but the
characterization of that state-created claim as legal or
equitable for purposes of whether a right to jury trial is
indicated must be made by recourse to federal law.
However, we do not agree with respondent that in this
case a, summary judgment was warranted or that this is
an "equitable" action not requiring a jury trial.
In two appeals in this case, the Court of Appeals has
ruled that in view of conflicting facts presented by
affidavits and depositions to the District Court, summary
judgment was not warranted. We accept and do not dis*"In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall
exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved,
and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any
Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common
law." U. S. Const., Amend. VII.

SIMLER v. CONNER.
221

Per Curiam.

turb the ruling of the Court of Appeals on this phase of
the case since it has ample support in the record.
On- the question whether, as a matter of federal law,
the instant action is legal or equitable, we conclude that
it is "legal" in character. The record discloses that the
controversy between petitioner and responden t in substance involves the amount of -fees petitioner, a client, is
obligated to pay respondent, his lawyer. Petitioner
admits his obligation to pay a "reasonable" fee under a
contingent fee retainer contract stipulating that reasonableness may be set in a court trial. Respondent relies
on a subsequent contract specifying 50% of the recovery,
under certain circumstances, as the amount of the fee.
Petitioner counters that the latter contract is the product
of fraud and overreaching by the lawyer.
The case was in its basic character a suit to determine
and adjudicate the amount of fees owing to a lawyer by a
client under a contingent fee retainer contract, a traditionally "legal" action. See Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441,
447; Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U. S.548. The fact that the
action is in form a declaratory judgment case should not
obscure the essentially legal nature of the action. The
questions involved are traditional common-law issues
which can be and should have been submitted to a jury
under appropriate instructions as petitioner requested.
Accordingly, the cQurts below erred in denying petitioner the jury trial guaranteed him by the Seventh
Amendment and the judgment is reversed.
Reversed.

