368

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Syllabus.

-

372 U. S.

GRAY, CHAIRMAN OF THE GEORGIA STATE
DEMOCRATIC EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,
ET AL. v. SANDERS.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 112.

Argued January 17, 1963.-Decided March 18, 1963.

Appellee, a qualified voter in primary and general elections in Fulton
county, Georgia, sued in a Federal District Court to restrain appellants, the Secretary of State and officials of the State Democratic Executive Committee, from using Georgia's county-unit
system as a basis for counting votes in a Democratic primary election for the nomination of a United States Senator and statewide
officers-which was practically equivalent to election. Such primary elections are governed by a Georgia statute, which was
amended in 1962 so as to allocate unit votes to counties as follows:
Counties with populations not exceeding 15,000, two units; an
additional unit for the next 5,000 persons; an additional unit for
the next 10,000; an additional unit for each of the next two
brackets of 15,000; and, thereafter, two more units for each increase
of 30,000. All candidates for statewide office were required to
receive a majority of the county-unit votes to be entitled to- nomination in the first primary. The practical *effect of this system is
that the vote of each citizen counts for less and less as the population of his county increases, and a combination of the units from
the counties having the smallest population gives counties having
one-third of the total population of the State a clear majority of
county votes. Held:
1. Since the constitutionality of a state statute was involved and
the question was a substantial one, a three-judge court was properly
convened to hear this case, as required under 28 U. S. C. § 2281.
P. 370.
2. State regulation of these primary elections makes the election
process state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, Pp. 374-375..
o
3. Appellee, like any person whose right to vote is impaired, had
standing to sue. P. 375.

GRAY v. SANDERS.
Syllabus.

368

4. The case is not moot by reason of the fact that the Democratic Committee voted to hold the 1962 primary election on a
popular-vote basis, since the* 1962 Act remains in force and it
would govern future elections if the complaint were dismissed.
Pp. 375-376.
5. The use of this election system in a statewide election violates
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp.
376-381.
(a) The District Court correctly held that the county-unit
system, as applied in a statewide election, violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; but it erred in framing its injunction so that a county-unit system might be used in
weighting the votes in a statewide election, if the system showed
no greater disparity against a county than exists against any State
in the conduct of national elections. Pp. 373-374, 376-379.
(b) The Equal Protection Clause requires that, once a geographical unit for which a representative is to be chosen is designated, all who participate in the election must have an equal
vote-whatever their race; whatever their sex; whatever their
occupation; whatever their income and wherever their home may
be in that geographical unit. Pp. 379-380.
(c) The only weighting of votes sanctioned by the Constitution concerns matters of representation, such as an allocation of
Senators irrespective of population and the use of the electoral
college in the choice of a President. Pp. 380-381.
(d) The conception of political equality from the Declaration
of Independence, to Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, to the Fifteenth,
Seventeenth, and Nineteenth Amendments can mean only one
thing-one person, one vote. P. 381.
203 F. Supp. 158, judgment vacated and case remanded.

B. D. Murphy and E. Freeman Leverett, Deputy
Assistant Attorneys General of Georgia, argued the cause
for appellants. With them on the brief were Eugene
Cook, Attorney General, and Lamar W. Sizemore.
Morris B. Abram argued the cause for appellee. With
him on the brief were Herman Heyman and Robert E.

Hicks.

692-437 0-63-28

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

Attorney General Kennedy, by special leave of Court,
argued the cause for the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance. ' On the brief were Solicitor General
Cox, Assistant Attorney General Marshall, Bruce J.
Terris, Harold H. Greene, David Rubin and Howard A.
Glickstein.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
I.
This suit was instituted by appellee, who is qualified
to vote in primary and general elections in Fulton County,
Georgia, to restrain appellants from using Georgia's
county unit system as a basis for counting votes in a
Democratic primary for the nomination of a United
States Senator and statewide officers, and for declaratory
relief. Appellants are the Chairman and Secretary of the
Georgia State Democratic Executive Committee, and the
Secretary of State of Georgia. Appellee alleges that the
use of the county unit system in counting, tabulating,
consolidating, and certifying votes cast in primary elections for statewide offices violates the Equal Protection
Clause and the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the Seventeenth Amendment. As the
constitutionality of a state statute was involved and the
question was a substantial one, a three-judge court was
properly convened. $ee 28 U. S. C. § 2281; United
States v. Georgia Public Service Comm'n, 371 U. S. 285.
Appellants moved to dismiss; and they also filed an
answer denying that the county unit system was unconconstitutional and alleging that it was designed "to
achieve a reasonable balance as between urban and rural
electoral power."
Under Georgia law each county is- given a specified
number of representatives in the lower House of the Gen-

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

Opinion of the Court.

eral Assembly.1 This county unit system at the time this
suit was filed was employed as follows in statewide primaries: 2 (1). Candidates for nominations who received
the highest number of popular votes in a county were considered to have carried the county and to be entitled
to two votes for each representative to which the county
is entitled in the lower House of the General Assembly;
(2) the majority of the county unit vote nominated a
United States Senator and Governor; the plurality of the
county unit vote nominated the others.
Appellee asserted that the total population of Georgia in
1960 was 3,943,116; that the population of Fulton County,
where he resides, was 556,326; that the residents of
Fulton County comprised 14.11% of Georgia's total population; but that, under the county unit system, the six
unit votes of Fulton County constituted 1.46% of the total
of 410 unit votes, or one-tenth of Fulton County's percentage of statewide population. The complaint further
alleged that Echols County, the least populous county in
Georgia, had a population in 1960 of 1,876, or .05% of
the State's population, but the unit vote of Echols County
was .48% of the total unit vote of all counties in Georgia,
or 10 times Echols County's statewide percentage of population. One unit vote in Echols County represented 938
residents, whereas one unit vote in Fulton County represented 92,721 residents. Thus, one resident in Echols
County had an influence in the nomination of candidates
equivalent to 99 residents of Fulton County.
1 Ga. Const., 1945, Art. III, § III, I:
"The House of Representatives shall consist of representatives apportioned among the several counties of the State as follows: To the
eight counties having the largest population, three representatives
each; to the thirty counties having the next largest population, two
representatives each; and to the remaining counties, one representative each."
2 Ga. Code Ann., §§ 34-3212, 34-3213.(1936).

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

On the same day as the hearing in the District Court,
Georgia amended the statutes challenged in the complaint. This amendment 3 modified the county unit system by allocating units to counties in accordance with a
"bracket system" instead of doubling the number of
representatives of--each county in the lower House of
the Georgia Assembly. Counties with from 0 to 15,000
people were allotted two units; an additional one unit was
allotted for the next 5,000 persons; an additional unit
for the next 10,000 persons; another unit for each of the
next two brackets of 15,000 persons and, thereafter, two
more units for each increase of 30,u00 persons. Under
the -amended Act, all candidates for statewide office (not
merely for Senator and Governor as under the earlier Act)
are required to receive a majority of the county unit votes
to be entitled to nomination in the first primary. In addition, in order to be nominated in the first primary, a candidae has to receive a majority of the popular votes unless
there are only two candidates for the nomination and each
receives an equal number of unit votes, in which event
the candidate with the popular majority wins. If no
candidate receives both a majority of the unit votes and a
majority of the popular votes, a second run-off primary
is required between the candidate receiving the highest
number of unit votes and the candidate receiving the
highest number of popular votes. In the second primary,
the candidate receiving the highest number of unit votes
is to prevail. But again, if there is a tie in unit votes, the
candidate with the popular majority wins:
Appellee was allowed to amend his complaint so as to
challenge the amended Act. The District Court held
that the amended Act had some of the vices of the prior
Act. It stated that under the amended Act "the vote of
8Ga. Laws 1962, Ex. Sess., No. 1, p. 1217; Ga. Code Ann., §§ 343212, 34-3213 (1962).

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

Opinion of the Court.

each citizen counts for less and less as the population of

the county of his residence increases."
170, n. 10. It went on to say:

203 F. Supp. 158,

"There are 97 two-unit counties, totalling 194 unit
votes, and 22 counties totalling 66 unit votes, altogether 260 unit votes, within 14 of a majority; but
no county in the above has as much as 20,000 population. The remaining 40 counties range in population from 20,481 to 556,326, but they control altogether only 287 county unit votes. Combination of
the units from the counties having the smallest populaiion gives counties having population of one-third
of the total in the state a clear majority of county
units." Ibid.
The District Court held that as. a result of Baker v.
Carr, 369 U. S. 186, it had jurisdiction, that a justiciable
case was stated, that appellee had standing, and that the

Democratic primary in Georgia is "state" action within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. It -held
that the county unit system as applied violates the Equal
Protection Clause, and it issued an injunction," not
against conducting any party primary election under the
county unit system, but against conducting such an

election under a county unit system that does not meet
the requirements specified by the court.' 203 F. Supp.
4The order, dated April 28, 1962vwas not restricted to the party
primary of September 12, 1962; nor was the relief asked so restricted.
1 The District Court in its order defined the type of county unit
system which violated the Equal Protection Clause as follows:
"A county unit system for use in a party primary is invidiously
discriminatory if any unit has less than its share to the nearest
whole number proportionate to population, or to the whole of the
vote in a recent party gubernatorial primary, or to the vote for
electors of the party in the most recent presidential election; provided, no discrimination is deemed to be invidious under such system
if the disparity against any county is not in excess of the disparity

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

158. In other words, the District Court did not proceed
on the basis that in a statewide election every qualified
person was entitled to one vote and that all weighted
voting was outlawed. Rather, it allowed a county unit
system to be used in weighting the votes if the system
showed no greater disparity against a county than exists
against any State in the conduct of national elections.6
Thereafter the Democratic Committee voted to hold the
1962 primary election for the statewide offices mentioned on a popular vote basis. We noted probable
jurisdiction. 370 U. S.921.
II.
We agree with the District Court that the action of this
party in the conduct of its primary constitutes state
action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judge Sibley, writing for the court in Chapman v. King,
154 F. 2d 460, showed with meticulous detail the manner
in which Georgia regulates the conduct of party primaries
(id., pp. 463-464) and he concluded:
"We think these provisions show that the State,
through the managers it requires, collaborates in the
conduct of the primary, and puts its power behind
the rules of the party. It adopts the primary as a
part 6f the public election machinery. The exclusions of voters made by the party by the primary
rules become exclusions enforced by the State." Id.,
p. 464.
We agree with that result and conclude that state regulation of this preliminary phase of the election process
that exists as against any state in the most recent electoral college
allocation, or under the equal proportions formula for representationi
of the several states in the Congress of the United States, and, provided provision is made for allocations to be adjusted to accord with
changes in the basis at least once each ten years."
6 See note. 5, supra.

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

375

Opinion of the Court.

makes it state action. See United States v. Classic, 313
U. S. 299; Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649.
We also agree that appellee, like any person whose right
to vote is impaired (Smith v. Allwright, supra; Baker v.
Carr, supra, pp. 204-208), has standing to sue.7
Moreover, we think the case is not moot by reason of
the fact that the Democratic Committee voted to hold
7 Chief Justice Holt stated over 250 years ago:
"A right that a man has to give his vote at the election of a person
to represent him in parliament, there to concur to the making of laws,
which are to bind his liberty and property, is a most transcendent
thing, and of an high nature . . . . [I]t is a great injury to deprive . . . [him] of it ...
"... It would look very strange, when .the commons of England
are so fond of their right of sending representatives to parliament, that
it should be in the power of a sheriff, or other officer, to deprive them
of. that right, and yet that they should have no remedy . . . . This
right of voting is a right in the plaintiff by the common law, and
consequently he shall maintain an action for the obstruction of it....
"But in the principal case my brother says, we cannot judge of
this matter, because it is a parliamentary thing. 0! by all means
be very tender- of that. Besides it is intricate, and there may be
contrariety of opinions. . . . To allow this action will make publick
officers more careful to observe the constitution of cities and boroughs,
and not to be so partial as they commonly are in all elections, which
is indeed a great and growing mischief, and tends to the prejudice
of the peace of the nation. But they say, that this is a matter out
of our jurisdiction, and we ought not to inlarge it. I agree we ought
not to incroach or inlarge our jurisdiction; . . . but sure we may
determine on a charter granted by the king, or on a matter of custom or prescription, when it comes before us without incroaching on
the parliament. And if it be a matter within our jurisdiction, we
are bound by our oaths to judge of it. This is a matter of property
determinable before us. Was ever such a petition heard of in parliament, as that a man was hindered of giving his vote, and praying
them to give him remedy? The parliament undoubtedly would say,
take your remedy at law. It is not like the-case of determining the
right of election between the candidates." Ashby v. White, 2 Ld.
Raym. 938, 953, 954, 956 (1702).

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

the 1962 primary on a popular vote basis: But for the
injunction issued below, the 1962 Act remains in force;
and if the complaint were dismissed it would govern
future elections." 'In addition, the voluntary abandonment
of a practice does not relieve a court of adjudicating its
legality, particularly where the practice is deeply rooted
and long standing. For if the case were dismissed as moot
appellants would be "free to return to . . . [their] old
ways." United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S. 629,
632.
III.
On the merits we take a different view of the nature of
the problem than did the District Court.
This case, unlike Baker v. Carr, supra, does not involve
a question of the degree to which the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment limits the authority
of a State Legislature in designing the geographical districts from which representatives are chosen either for
the State Legislature or for the Federal House of Representatives. Nor does it include the related problems of
Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339, where "gerrymandering" was used to exclude a minority group from participation in municipal affairs. Nor does it present the
question, inherent in the bicameral form of our Federal
Government, whether a State may have one house chosen
without regard to population. The District Court, however, analogized Georgia's use of the county unit system
in determining the results of a statewide election to
phases of our federal system. It pointed out that under
the electoral college,' required by Art. II, § 1, of the Con8 The electoral college was designed by men who did not want the
election of the President to be left to the people. See S. Doc. No. 97,
Survey of the Electoral College in the Political System of the United
States, 79th, Cong., 1st Sess. "George Washington was elected to the
office of Chief Magistrate of the Nation, by 69 votes-the total num-

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

Opinion of the Court.

stitution and the Twelfth Amendment in the election of
the President, voting strength "is not in exact proportion
to population . . . . Recognizing that the electoral college was set up as a compromise to enable the formation
of the Union among the several sovereign states, it still
could hardly be said that such a system used in a state
among its counties, assuming rationality and absence of

arbitrariness in end result, could be termed invidious."
203 F. Supp., at 169.
Accordingly the District Court as already noted ' held
that use of the county unit system in counting the votes
ber cast by the electors. At that time, three States did not vote.
New York had not yet passed an electoral law, and North Carolina
and Rhode Island had not yet ratified the Constitution. Therefore,
of an estimated population of 4,000,000 people, a President was chosen
by 69 voters, who had not been selected by the people, but appointed
by State legislatures, save in the instances of Maryland and Virginia." Id., p. 4.
Hamilton 'expressed the philosophy behind the electoral college in
The Federalist No. 68. "This process of election affords a moral
certainty, that-the office of president, will seldom fall to the lot of
any man, who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite
qualifications. Talents for low intrigue and the little arts of popularity may alone suffice to elevate a man to the first honors in a single
state; but it will require other talents and a different kind of merit
to establish him in the esteem and confidence of the whole union, or
of so considerable a portion of it as would be necessary to make him
a successful candidate for the distinguished office of president of the
United States. It will not be too strong to say, that there will be
a constant probability of~seeing the station filled by characters preeminent for ability and virtue. And this will be thought no inconsiderable recommendation of the constitution, by those, who are able
to estimate the share, which the executive in every government must
necessarily have in its good or ill administration."
Passage of the Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Nineteenth Amendments
shows that this conception of political equality belongs to a bygone
day, and should not be considered in determining what the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires in statewide
elections.
"See note 5, 8upra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

in a statewide election was permissible "if the disparity
against any county is not in excess of the disparity that
exists against any state in the most recent electoral college allocation." 203 F. Supp., at 170. Moreover the District Court held. that use of the county unit system in
counting the votes in a statewide election was permissible
"if the disparity against any county is not in excess of
the disparity that exists . . . under the equal proportions
formula for representation of the several states in the
Congress." Ibid. The assumption implicit in these conclusions is that since equality is not inherent in the electoral college and since precise equality among blocs of
votes in one State or in the several States when it comes
to the election of members of the House of Representatives
is never possible, precise equality is not necessary in
statewide elections.
We think the analogies to the electoral college, to districting and redistricting, and to other phases of the problems of representation in state or federal legislatures or
conventions '0 are inapposite. The inclusion of the electoral college in the Constitution, as the result of specific
historical concerns," validated the collegiate principle
despite its inherent numerical inequality, but implied
nothing about the use of an analogous system by a State
in a statewide election. No such specific accommodation
of the latter was ever undertaken, and therefore no
validation of its numerical inequality ensued. Nor does
the question here have anything to do with the composition of the state or federal legislature. And we intimate
no opinion on the constitutional phases of that problem
beyond what we said in Baker v. Carr, supra. The present case is only a voting case. Cf. Nixon v. Herndon, 273
MWe do not reach here the questions that would be presented were
the convention system used for nominating candidates in lieu of the
primary system.
1 See note 8, supra.

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 536; Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S. 73; Smith v. Allwright, supra. Georgia gives every qualified voter one
vote in a statewide election; but in counting those votes
she employs the county unit sys em which in end result
weights the rural vote more heavily than the urban vote
and weights some small rural counties heavier than other
larger rural counties.
States can within limits specify the qualifications of
voters in both state and federal elections; the Constitution indeed makes voters' qualifications rest on state law
even in federal elections. Art. I, § 2. As we held in
Lassiter v. Northampton Election Board, 360 U. S. 45,
a State may if it chooses require voters to pass literacy
tests, provided of course that literacy is not used as a
cloak to discriminate against one class or group. But we
need not determine all the limitations that are placed on
this power of a State to determine the qualifications of
voters, for appellee is a qualified voter.
The Fifteenth Amendment prohibits a State from denying or abridging a Negro's right to vote. The Nineteenth
Amendment does the same for women, If a State in
a statewide election weighted the male vote more heavily
than the female vote or the white vote more heavily than
the Negro vote; none could successfully contend that that
discrimination was allowable. See Terry v. Adams, 345
U. S. 461. How then can one person be given twice or
ten times the voting power of another person in a statewide election merely-because he lives in a rural area or
because he lives in the smallest rural county? Once
the geographical unit for which a representative is to
be chosen is designated, all who participate in the election are to have an equal vote-whatever their race, whatever. their sex, whatever their occupation, whatever their
income, and wherever their home may be in that geographical unit. This is required by the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The concept of

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

"we the people" under the Constitution visualizes no preferred class of voters but equality among those who meet
the basic qualifications. The idea that every voter is
equal to every other voter in his State, when he casts his
ballot in favor of one of several competing candidates,
underlies many of our decisions.
The Court has consistently recognized that all qualified
voters have a constitutionally protected right "to cast
their ballots and have them counted at Congressional elections." United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 315; see
Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Wiley v. Sinkler, 179
U. S. 58; Swaflord v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487. Every
voter's vote is entitled to be counted once. It must be
correctly counted and reported. As stated in United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383, 386, "the right to have
one's vote counted" has the same dignity as "the right
to put a ballot in a box." It can be protected from the
diluting effect of illegal ballots. Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371; United States V. Saylor, 322 U. S. 385. And
these rights must be recognized in any preliminary election
that in fact determines the true weight a vote will have.
See United States v. Classic, supra; Smith v. Allwright,
supra. The concept of political equality in the voting
booth contained in the Fifteenth Amendment extends to
all phases of state elections, see Terry v. Adams, supra;
and, as previously noted, there is no indication in the
Constitution that homesite or occupation affords a permissible basis for distinguishing between qualified voters
within the State.
The only weighting of votes sanctioned by the Constitution concerns matters of representation, such as the
allocation of Senators irrespective of population and the
use of the electoral college in the choice of a President.
Yet when Senators are chosen, the Seventeenth Amendment states the choice must be made "by the people."
Minors, felons, and -other classes may be excluded. See

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

STEWART,

J., concurring.

Lassiter v. Northampton Election Board, supra, p. 51.
But once the class of voters is chosen and their qualifications specified, we see no constitutional way by which
eqfality of voting power may be evaded. As we stated
in Gomillion v. Lightfoot, supra, p. 347.
"When a State exercises power wholly within the
domain of state interest, it is insulated from federal
judicial review. But su-h insulation is not carried
over when state power is used as an instrument for
circumventing a federally protected right."
The conception of political equality from the Declaration
of Independence, to Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, to the
Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Nineteenth Amendments
can mean only one thing-one person, one vote.
While we agree with the District Court on most phases
of the case and think it was right in enjoining the use
of the county unit system " in tabulating the votes, we
vacate its judgment and remand the case so that a decree
in conformity with our opinion may be entered.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, whom MR. JUSTICE CLARK joins,
concurring.
In joining the opinion and judgment of the Court, I
emphasize what-but for my Brother HARLAN'S dissentI should have thought would be apparent to all who read
the Court's opinion.- This case does not involve the
12 The county unit system, even in its amended form (see note 3,
supra) would allow the candidate winning the popular vote in the
county to have the entire unit vote of that county. Hence the

weighting of votes would continue, even if unit votes were allocated
strictly in proportion to populatiQn. Thus if a candidate won 6,000
of 10,000 votes in a particular county, he would get the entire unit
vote, the 4,000 other votes for a different candidate being worth nothing and being counted only for the purpose of being discarded.

OCTOBER TERM; 1962.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

372 U. S.

validity of a State's apportionment of geographic constituencies from which representatives to the State's legislative assembly are chosen, nor any of the problems under
the Equal Protection Clause which such litigation would
present. We do not deal here with "the basic ground
rules implementing Baker v. Carr." This case, on the
contrary, involves statewide elections of a United States
Senator and of state executive and judicial officers responsible to a statewide constituency. Within a given
constituency, there can be room for but a single constitutional rule-one voter, one vote. United States v. Classic,
313 U. S.299.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

When Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S.186, was argued at the
last Term we were assured that if this Court would only
remove the roadblocks of Colegrove v. Green, 328 U. S.
549, and its predecessors to judicial review in "electoral"
cases, this Court in all likelihood would never have to
get deeper into such matters. State legislatures, it was
predicted, would be prodded into taking satisfactory
action by the mere prospect of legal proceedings.
These predictions have not proved true. As of November 1, 1962, the apportionment of seats in at least 30 state
legislatures had been challenged in state and federal
courts,1 and, besides this one, 10 electoral cases of one kind
or another are already on this Court's docket. 2 The present case is the first of these to reach plenary consideration.
1 Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, Report on
Apportionment of State Legislatures, December 1962, p. A-21. I
have been informed by the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts that, by December 31, 1962, over 25 suits had been filed in
the federal courts alone.
2 No. 460, WMCA, Inc., v. Simon; No. 507, Wesberry v. Sanders;
No. 508,. Reynolds v. Sims; No. 517, Beadle v. Scholle; No. 540,
Vann v. Frink; No. 554, Maryland Comm. for Fair Representation

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

Preliminarily, it is symptomatic of the swift pace of current constitutional adjudication that the majority opinion should have failed to mention any of the four occasions
on which Georgia's County Unit System has previously
been unsuccessfully challenged in this Court. Cook v.
Fortson, decided with Turman v. Duckworth, 329 U. S.
675 (1946); South v. Peters, 339 U. S.276 (1950); Cox
v. Peters, 342 U. S.936 (1952); and Hartsfield v. Sloan,
357 U. S.916 (1958).
It is true that none of these cases reached the stage of
full plenary consideration but, in light of the judicial
history recounted by Mr. Justice Frankfurter in his dissenting opinion in Baker v. Carr,supra, at 266, 278 et seq.,
only the guileless could fail to recognize that the prevailing view then was that the validity of this County Unit
System was not open to serious conftitutional doubt.'
This estimate of the earlier situation is highlighted by the

dissenting, opinion of

JUSTICES BLACK

and

DOUGLAS

in

South v. Peters, supra, at 277, in which they unsuccessfully espoused the very views which now become the law.
Presumably my two Brothers also reflected these same
views in noting their dissents in the Cox and Hartsfield
cases. See also Cook v. Fortson,etc., supra, in which MR.
JUSTICE BLACK also noted his dissent.
But even if the Court's present silence about these cases
can be deemed justified on the premise that their summary
disposition can be satisfactorily accounted for on grounds
not involving the merits, I consider today's decision not
supportable.
v. Tawes; No. 610, McConnell v. Frink; No. 688, Price v. Moss; No.
689, Oklahoma Farm Bureau v. Moss; No. 797, Davis v. Mann.
3Although the Solicitor General, as amicus, suggests that the
Court's action in South v. Peters rested simply on a refusal to exercise federal equity power, it should be noted that the first case cited
in the Court's per curiam affirmance is MacDougall v. Green, 335
U. S. 281. See inIra, p. 385.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

372 U. S.

In the context of a nominating primary respecting candidates for statewide office, the Court construes the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as requiring .that each person's vote be given equal weight.
The majority says: "The conception of political equality
from the Declaration of Independence, to Lincoln's
Gettysburg Address, to the Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and
Nineteenth Amendments can mean only one thingone person, one vote." Ante, p. 381. The Court then
strikes down Georgia's County Unit System as such, a
holding which the District Court declined to make. 203
F. Supp., at 170.
The Court's holding surely flies in the face of history.
For, as impressively shown by the opinion of Frankfurter,
J., in Baker v. Carr (369 U. S., at 301-324), "one person,
one vote" has never been the universally accepted political
philosophy in England, the American Colonies, or in the
United States. The significance of this historical fact
seems indeed to be recognized by the Court, for it implies
that its new-found formula might not obtain in a case
involving the apportionment of seats in the "State Legislature or for the Federal House of Representatives."
Ante, p. 376.
But, independently of other reasons that will be discussed in a moment, any such distinction finds persuasive
refutation in the Federal Electoral College whereby the
President of the United States is chosen on principles
wholly opposed to those now held constitutionally required in the electoral process for statewide office. One
need not close his eyes to the circupistance that the Electoral College was born in compromise, nor take sides in the
various attempts that have been made to change the system,4 in order to agree with the court below that it "could
4See Wechsler, Presidential Elections and the Constitution: A
Comment on Proposed Amendment, 35 A. B. A. J. 181 (1949).

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

hardly be said that such a system used in a state among its
counties, assuming rationality and absence of arbitrariness in end result, could be termed invidious." 203 F.
Supp., at 169.
Indeed this Court itself some 15 years ago rejected, in
a comparable situation, the notion of political equality
now pronounced. In MacDougall v. Green, 335 U. S.
281, challenge was made to an Illinois law requiring that
nominating petitions of a new political party be signed
by at least 25,000 voters, including a minimum of 200
voters fromn each of at least 50 of the 102 counties in the
State. The claim was that the "200 requirement" made
it possible for "the voters of the less populous counties . . . to block the nomination of candidates whose
support is confined to geographically limited areas." Id.,
at 283. In disallowing this claim, the Court said (id.,
at 283-284):
"To assume that political power is a function exclusively of numbers is tQ disregard the practicalities
of government. Thus, the Constitution protects the
interests of the smaller against the greater by giving
in the Senate entirely unequal representation to
populations. It would be strange indeed, and doctrinaire, for this Court, applying such broad constitutional concepts as due process and equal protection
of the laws, to deny a State the power to assure a
proper diffusion of political initiative as between its
thinly populated counties and those having concentrated masses, in view of the fact that the latter have
practical opportunities for exerting their political
weight at the polls not available to the former. The
Constitution-a practical instrument of government-makes no such demands on the States."
Certainly no support for this equal protection doctrine can be drawn from the Fifteenth, Seventeenth, or
692407 O-63--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
iAu.x, J., dissenting.

372 U. S.

Nineteenth Amendment. The Fifteenth Amendment
simply assures that the right to vote shall not be impaired "on account of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude." The Seventeenth Amendment provides
that Senators shall be "elected by the people," with no
indication that all people must be accorded a vote of equal
weight. The Nineteenth Amendment merely gives the
vote to women. And it is hard to take seriously the argument that "dilution" of a vote inconsequence of a legislatively sanctioned electoral system can, without more, be
analogized to an impairment of the political franchise by
ballot box stuffing or other criminal activity, e. g., United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S.383, United States v. Classic,
313 U. S.299, United States v. Saylor, 322 U. S.385, or to
the disenfranchisement of qualified voters on purely racial
grounds, Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S.339.
A violation of the Equal Protection Clause thus cannot
be found in the mere circumstance that the Georgia
County Unit System results in disproportionate vote
weighting. It "is important for this court to avoid
extracting from the very general language of the Fourteenth Amendment a system of delusive exactness .... "
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197
U. S.430, 434 (Holmes, J.). What then remains of the
equal protection claim in this case?
At the core of Georgia's diffusion of voting strength
which favors the small as against the large counties is the
urban-rural problem, so familiar in the American political
scene. In my dissent in Baker v. Carr,369 U. S., at 336, I
expressed the view that a State might rationally conclude
that its general welfare was best served by apportioning more seats in the legislature to agricultural comnunities than to urban centers, lest the legitimate interests of the former be submerged in the stronger electoral
voice of the latter. In my opinion, recognition of the same
factor cannot be deemed irrational in the present situation,

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

even though all of the considerations supporting its use
in a legislative apportionment case are not present here.
Given the undeniably powerful influence of a state
governor on law and policy making,' I do not see how it
can be deemed irrational for a State to conclude that a
candidate for such office should not be one whose choice
lies with the numerically superior electoral strength of
urban voters. By like token, I cannot consider it irrational for Georgia to apply its County Unit System to
the selection of candidates for other statewide offices'
in order to assure against a predominantly "city point of
view" in the administration of the State's affairs.
On the existing record, this leaves the question of
"irrationality" in this case to be judged on the basis of
pure arithmetic. The Court by its "one person, one vote"
theory in effect avoids facing up to that problem, but the
District Court did face it, holding that the disparities in
voting strength between the largest county (Fulton) and
the four smallest counties (Webster, Glascock, Quitman,
and Echols), running respectively 8 to 1, 10 to 1, 11 to 1,
5

The Georgia Constitution vests in the Governor the State's
and authorizes him to recommend legislation,

"executive power,"

make reports to and call extraordinary sessions of the State General
Assembly, isque writs of election to fill vacancies in the General Assembly, veto or anprove bills and resolutions, and require reports from
the various departments of the State.

Ga. Const. of 1945, Art. V,

§§ 2-3001 to 2-3017. Also, by statute, payments cannot be made
from the state treasury without a warrant issued by the Governor,
Ga. Code Ann., § 40-204, and in the event of a public emergency the
Governor is authorized to promulgate and enforce such rules and
regulations as are necessary to prevent, control, or quell violence,
threatened or actual, Ga. Code Ann., § 40-213.
6Those involved in this case, besides Governor, are United States
Senator, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Justice of the Silpreme Court, Judge of the Court of Appeals, Attorney General,
Comptroller General, Commissioner of Labor, and Treasurer. The
Governor has a general power, to fill vacancies in such offices, unless
otherwise provided by law. Ga. Const. of 1945, Art. V, § 2-3013.

OCTQBER TERM, 1962.
HARLAN,

372 U. S.

J.., dissenting.

and 14 to 1 in favor of the latter,' were invidiously discriminatory. But it did not tell us why. I do not under-

stand how, on the basis of these mere numbers, unilluminated as they are by any of the complex and subtle
political factors involvea, a court of law can say, except
by judicial fiat, that these disparities are in themselves
constitutionally invidious.
The disproportions in the Georgia County Unit System
are indeed not greatly out of line with those existing under
the Electoral College count for the Presidency. - The disparity in population per Electoral College vote between
New York (the largest State in the 1960 census) and
Alaska (the smallest) wqs about 5 to 1.8 There are only
15 Georgia counties, out of a total of 159, which have a
greater disparity per unit vote, and of these 15 counties
4 have disparity of less than 6 to 1. It is thus apparent
that a slight modification of the Georgia plan could bring
it within the tolerance permitted in the federaltscheme.
It was of course imponderables like these that lay at
the root of the Court's steadfast pre-Baker v, Carrrefusal
"to enter [the] political thicket." Colegrove v. Green,
supra, at 556. Having turned its back on this wise chapter in its history, the Court, in my view, can no longer
escape the necessity of coming to grips with the thorny
problems it so studiously strove to avoid in Baker v. Carr

Unit Vote
40

Population
per
Unit Vote
13,908

DeKalb ......... 256,782

20

12,839

Chatham ........ 188,299
Muscogee ....... 158,623

16
14

11,760
11,330

3,247

2

1,623

Population
County
Fulton .......... 556,326

Webster .........

1,336
2,672
2
Glascock ........
2
1,216
2,432
Quitman ........
938
1,876
2
Echols ..........
8 Statistical Abstract of the United. States 10, 366 (1962).

Ratio to
Fulton
County

8 to 1

10 to 1
11 to 1
14 to 1

GRAY v. SANDERS.
368

HARLAN,

J., -dissenting.

(see concurring opinion of STEWART, J., 369 U. S., at 265,
and dissenting opinion of HARLAN, J., id., at 339) and in
two subsequent cases, Scholle v; Hare, 369 U. S. 429, 430
(concurring opinion of CLARK, J., and STEWART, J.), 430-.
435 (dissenting opinion of HARLAN. J.); W. M. U. A.,
Inc., v. Simon, 370 U. S. 190, 191-194 (dissenting opinion
of HARLAN, J.). To regard this case as being outside the
general stream of electoral cases because only two other
States, Maryland and Mississippi, nave county unit systems, is to hide one's head in the sand.
What then should be the test of "rationality" in this
judicially unfamiliar field? My Brother CLARK has
perhaps given us a clue in the legislative inactivity-absence of any other remedy-crazy quilt approach contained in his concurring opinion in Baker v. Carr, supra,
at 253-262. But I think a formulation of the basic
ground rules in this untrod area of juoiicial competence
should await a fully developed record. This case is here
at an interlocutory stage. The temporary injunction
before us issued upon a record consisting only of the
pleadings, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, statistical
material, and what the lower court described as a "liberal
use of our right to take judicial notice of matters of common knowledge and public concern." 203 F. Supp., at
160, n. 1. No full-dress exploration of any of the many
intricate questions involved in establishing criteria for
judging "rationality" took place, the opinion and decree
below issued the day following the hearing, and the District Court observed that, while its standards of equal
protection (which this Court now puts aside) "may appear
doctrinaire to some extent," it was constrained to act as it
did because of the then (but no longer existing) 1 urgency
of the situation. 203 F. Supp., at 170.
9

Following the District Court's injunction, a statewide direct
primary was held.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

372 U. S.

Surely, if the Court's "one person, one vote" ideology is
constitutionally untenable, as I think it clearly is, the
basic ground rules implementing Baker v. Carr should
await the trial of this or some other case in which we
have before us a fully developed record. Only then can
we know what we are doing. Cf. White Motor Co. v.
United States, ante, p. 253. A matter which so profoundly touches the barriers between federal judicial and
state legislative authority demands nothing less.
I would vacate the judgment of the District Court and
remand the case for trial.

