JANUARY TERM, 1848.5

605

United States v. Yates et.al.

said into- the hands of such curator, commissioner, or trustee
aq the said court may appoint for the Purpose; whose duty it
•shall be, under the directions of.7the court, to manage the said
-property to 'the best advantage, till, the whole rnatter and apportionment of the said two portibns (being the said four fifths
and one fifth) 9f the said property'shall have been compIeted
and finally liquidated, as a part of the succession of the said
'Daniel Clark, and in the mean time to collect and receive all the
rents, issues, and profits of the same, and to account- and bring
the same into court; to be there apportioned and paid over, or
in pairt retained for further directions.
2. To cause four fifths of the property so claimed and 'held
by the defendant Patterson ds aforesaid to be duly partitioned,
appropriated, and delivered or paid ove to'the said c6mplainant; and to retain tli residue subject to further directions for
-the appropriation of the same which either party shall be at
liberty to, move foi; and if the samd be proved and -found indivisible by its nature, or cannot be conveniently divided, to
cause it to be sold by public auction, after the time of 'notice
and advertisements, and as near as hay be in the .manner
prescribed by law in "thejudicial sale of the property of suecessions: and, in case of such sale by auction, to apportipn
and pay over four'fifths.of the net proceeds-of such sale tothe said. complainant, and to retain the residue subject to further directions, as aforesaid.',
3. To cause,an account. to be taken by the proper officer of
the court, and under the authority and direction of the court,
of the yearly rents and profits ac6ued. and accruing from the
said property since it came into the possession of the defendant Patterson; and -four Mfths of the -same to -be accounted
and paid to the said complainant, and the residue to be retained subject to such further directions as aforesaid.
4. To give such directions'and make such orders, from time
to time, as may be proper ad:necdssary for carrying into effect
the foregoing directions, and for enforcing the due obsetvance'
of the same by the parties and' the officers of the court.

TaE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS- V. HENRY YATES AND -ARcHIBALD
MCINTYRE.
M
Under the peculiar circumstances of this case, the counsel for the appellees was
permitted to strike out his appearance, but such withdrawal must not authorize
a motion to dismiss for want of a citation.
"
The appearance of counsel does not preclude a motion to dismiss for the want of
jurisdiction, or any other sufficient gr6und, except the want of a citationi. It is

51*

-

-

606 "

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Yates et al.

the practice of the court to receive such motions after an appearance has been
entered.
Under the rules of this court, it is, in general, ofno importance to the appellant,
whether an appearance for the appellee is or is not entered on the record. If
the appeal has been regularly prosecuted, he is as much entitled to judgment in
the one case as in the other.
THIS was an appeal -from the District Court of the United
States for Louisiana, under the act of Congress passed on
the 17th bf June, 1844, pr6vidihg for the adjustment of land
claims within the States of Louisiana, Arkansas, &c.
A motion was made by Mr. Baldwin, whose name appeared
as counsel for the appellees, to strike out his appearance, and
in support of the motion he filed the following affidavit and
letter.

"Harvey Baldwin, of the city of Syracuse in the State of
New York, being dly sworn, saith, - That he is the attorney
and counsel of the ab6ve-named appellees, and as such brought
and apsisted in the trial of the above-entitled suit in the District Court of Louisiana.
"That this deponent set out from his residence aforesaid for
Europe, on the 10th day of July last, and returned therefromr
on the 28th or 29th of December last.
"That while.in Europe, this deponent, by a letter from his
clerk, was informed, that, owing to some irregularities touching
the appeal, said cause was. at an end and would not be further prosecuted, or language to that effect. But this deponent
was subsequently' informed, by a letter from his 'wife, that
the appeal taken therein was not abandoned, and that the
return thereto would 'soon be filed, or words to that effect.
Whdreupon this dep6nent wrote to Major Hobbie, Deputy
Postmaster-General of this city, and requested him to call on
Mr. Carroll, the clerk of this court,.and take such measures
in the name of this deponent as might be necessary to save
default, and protect the rights of this deponent's clients therein; whidh letter this deponent has since his arrival in this
city obtained from said. Hobbie, and, together with the 6nvelop
thereof, is hereunto annexed.
"And this deponent further gaith, that, sinee his airival in
this city, he has been informed by the clerk of this court that
said Hobbie called on him, on or about the 29th day of December last, with the letter from this deponent, and ordered
the appearance of this deponent entered for the appellees in
said suit, and that said appearance was thereupon-entered, pursuant to such direction and request.
"And this deponeut further saith, that, having been apprised.,
that there were some irregularities in regard to said appeal,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

607

United States v. Yates et al.

he did not intend to have his appearance entered in said cause
if by so doing it would prevent said appellees from taking, advantage of such irregilarity.
" And this deponent further saith, that, having since his arrival in this city seen the return to said appeal, he is satisfied that
irregularities touching, the appeal in said cause ,do exist, and
as the counsel for said appellees deems it his duty,as at present
advised, to present them to the consideration of this honorable
court. And further saith not.
Hm vRE

BALDWIN.

" Sworn to in open court, 15th Februarjy, 1848.
WILLIAM THoMAs CARROLL,

Clerk of Suprme Court U. S."
"Frankfort on the .Maine, November 15th, 1847.
"My dear Sir, -

I wrote you a hasty note this morning, via
Liverpool, requesting your.kind attention. to a suit I have in
the United States court, -Yates and McIntyre vs. The United
States, appeal from District. Court of Louisiana by United
States, under the act of Congress of 1844.
"Since I arrived in this country, I have- been informed that
the appeal was abandoned, or, owing to some irregularity.in
appellants' proceedings, the appeal-was at an end;
"This may or may not be so.. ,If return has been made, my
appearance for appellees ought, - suppose, to be- entered; but
I do not wish, by entering -an appearance, to waive any irregularity or advantage which the appellees -may have, without
their consent. Will you do me the favor to call on Mr. Carroll,
the clerk, and take such measures, in my name, as- may..be
necessary to.savedefault and proiect the rights of my clients.
"I ought in justice to myself and them to say, that, under
ordinary circunistances, they would not regard mere technical-'
ities; but the lands. iu question have. cost them more than
they can: ever hope to realize with -the titles confirmed- For
twenty years they have been struggling to get the government
to do that which, by the terms of the treaty 'of.1803, it solemnly
promised to do, and the doing of which formed, strictijuris,
a condition precedent to the perfe6tion of its own title. Until
this is or shall be done,' our property -iemains unavailable. If,
-therefore, the government has by laches lost the right to prosecute the appeal, I see no reason; under the-circumstances, why
we should restore it to them.
"When yqu look into the matter, do whatever may be necessary to protect our interest, and hold me accountable at
our first meeting, which.I now hope. will be some time in the
month of December next.
I. BALWI-w."

608

SUPREME COURT.
United'States v. Yates et al.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the affidavits filed, the court will permit the attorney
who has appeared -for the appellees to withdiaw his appearance. But this leave will not authorize a motion to dismiss
for want of a citation, nor for mere irregularity in its service, provided the appeal -is in other respects regularly brought
up and authorized by law. Tie citation is merely notice to
the party, and his appearance in person or by attorney is 'an
admission of notice on the record, and he cannot afterwards
withdraw it.
But the appearance does not preclude the party from moving to dismiss for the want of jurisdiction, or any other sufficient ground, except for the one above mentioned. And a
motion of that kind is, in the practice of this court, usually
and most properly made by the attorney after his appearance.
is entered on the docket. And if such a motion is intended
to be made in this case, the withdrawal of the appearance is
not necessary to.give the appellee a right to make it.
The serious objections which often exist to permitting an
attorney to strike out his appearance for a defendant in a
court exercising original, jurisdiction, do. not apply in an appellate court. And under the rules of this court, it is, in general, of no importance to the appellant, whether an appearance
for- the appellee is or is not entered on the record. . For if he
is entitled to his appeal, and has prosecuted it to this ,ourt -according to' law,- the refusal- or omission of the appellee to appear will not delay the trial, and a judgment against- him will
be as condlusive as if an appearance for him had been'entered on the docket, and the case argued by his counsel.
Order.
On consideration of the motion by Mr. B ldwin, for leave
t§ strike out his appearance, which had been improvidently
entered (by an: agent of his) for the appellees in this cause,
and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against
as in 'support of, the motien, it is now here ordered by the
court, that the leave prayed for be' and the same is hereby
granted.
Note by. the Reporter.
The c6se was afterwards dismissed, upon the same grounds
as in the preceding case of. The United States v. Curry and
Garland. -

