J3ANUARY TERM, 1848.

7

Gwin et al. v. Barton et al.

WILLIA M, GwIN, LATE MARSH AL. AND -JACOB S. YERGER AND ROBERT HUGHES, HIS SURETIES, PLAINTLFFS IN ERROR, v. C. T. AND A.
BARTON, DEFENDANTS IN, ERROR.
The decision of this court in the case<
efGwin v. Breedlove, 2 How. 29, reviewed
and confirmed, viz. :
That under a statute of Mississippi, relating to bheriffs, a summaryprocess against a'
marshal might be re'sorted to, in order to enforce the payment of a debt, interest,
and costs, for which he was liable by reason of his default; that the courts of the
United States could not enforce the lianent of a penalty imposed by the State
laws in addition to the money due on the e-iecution; that a marshal and-his sureties could not be proceeded against, jointly, in this summary way, but they must
be sued as directed by the act of Congress.
Any excess of interest awarded over and above the legal rate is a penalty, and
comes within the above rule.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United IStates for the Southern District of Mississippi, under the following circumstances.
I At May term, 1843, viz. on the- -5th of May, the following
notice was filed
To William M. Gwin, late Marshal of the SouthernDistrict of
the State of Mississippi, and Jacob S Yerger and Robert
IHughes, his securities in his official bond.
Please take notice that on Wednesday,-the 24th day of the
present month (May), I will move the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of the State of Mississippi for a judgment against You for the sum of twenty-nine
hundred and twenty dollars thirty-nine cents, being the amount
[of] the plaintiffs' money mentioned in the writ of venditioni
exponas, issued from said Circuit Court on the 14th day of Novemb6r, 1840, in our favor, agaifist Robert G. Crozier, Thomas J. Coffee, and -R. S. Hardy, principals, and James . King
and William H. Shelton, securities, for the said sum of twentynine hundred and twenty dollars thirty-nirie cents, and which
said writ commanded the said W. M. Gwin, then marshal, to
expose the property therein specified to sale, to satisfy the money aforesaid, and interest, and costs due on said execution; and
which execution or writ of venditioni oxponas came to the
hands of said Gwin in due time, and upon the same said Gwin
voluntarily and without authority omitted to levy the money
aforesaid. I will also ask said court for a judgment for intercst
on the sum aforesaid, at the rate of thirty per centum per annum from the first Monday in May, 1840, till paid.
- You may attend and oppose said motion, if you think proper.
Your obt. servt.
C. T. & A. BArT.N,
May 5th, 1843.
By ROBT. HUGHES, therattorney.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin et, a]. v. Barton et al.

On the 23d of May, the defendants filed a demurrer upon
the following grounds, viz. :1. There is no law which authorizes the making of such a
motion.
2. The citizenship of either plaintiffs or defendants is not
set out in the motion, or any part of the record in this cause.
3. If any motion will lie at all in this court against the marshal and his sureties, it must be'in the name of the United
States for the use of the creditor.
4 The.motion does not set out the bond or obligation of
the defendants, or in what capacity, or tb what extent, or upon
what kind of. obligation, Hughes and Yerger are Gwin's sure-ties.
5. The motion does not specify any breach of official duty
upon the part of Gwin.
6. The motion does not show when any breach of official
.duty was committed by Gwin, or that the plaintiffs have been
damaged thereby, nor to what extent.
7. The motion does not show or set forth a demand and refusal, upon the part of Gwin, to pay over any money collected
by him for plaintiffs.
8. There are many other causes of demurrer, which will be
assigned at the hearing.
The court below overruled the demurrer, and Gwin and his
sureties were allowed to plead over.
Gwin sand his sureties put in a plea, "for that heretofore, before the entry of this motion against them, or notice that any
such motion would be entered, suits had been instituted in this
honorable court in favor of the United States of America against
these- defendants upon the official bond of said Gwin as marshal, for breacheg of the condition thereof, for sums of money
collected by Gwin, as marshal, and not paid over by him, in
amount larger than the penalty of the bond; which suits are
still pending undetermined in said court against these defendants, and judgments upon which cases will satisfy and discharge the penalty of said bond; and to the rendition of judgment in which cases these defendants are liable."
To this plea the plaintiffs demurred, to which there was a
joinder.
The court below sustained the demurrer, with leave to plead
over, which the defendants declined; and on proof of the plaintiffs, it appeared, to the satisfaction of the court, that on. the
14th November, 1840, a writ of "venditioniexponas was issued
against Crozier and others, for the sum of $ 2,970.39, by
which the marshal was commanded tcp sell the property in the
writ mentioned, to satisfy the debt, interest, and costs; that

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

9

Gwin et al. v. Barton et' al.

-

said writ came to the hands of the marshal in due time, and
upon the same he voliantarily and without authority omitted to
levy the money aforesaid, and that payment of the said money, due to the plaintiffs on said execution, was by them, since
the return. of the said execution, demanded of Gwin; and it
also appearing that Gwin gave an official bond, with Yerger
and Hughes, his securities, the court therefore gave judgment
against Gwin, Yerger, and Hughes, for the. amount due on the
execution, with interest at the rate of 30 per cent. per annum,
frori the 1st May, 1841, until paidi and costs of the motion.
The bill of exceptions set out the proceedings on the motion, the vemditioni e2zonas bond by Gwin and his sureties;
to the reading of which bond the defendants objected, which
objection the court overruled, and the defendanis excepted.
The plaintiffs then offered Hughes as a witness, which the
defendants objected to, as he was one of the defendants in the
motion, which objection the court overruled, and permitted
Hughes to be introduced as a witness; to which the defendants, with the exception of Hughes, excepted.
Hughes then testified, that he was attorney of the,plaintiffs;
that at the Xetutm term of the venditioni exponas he went to
the office of the marshal, and demanded the money on the same
of Mr. Hunt, the office deputy of Gwin. Hunt said the money
was not made; -that the property mentioned in the venditioni.
exponas had been sold to William H. Shelton, who had promised to pay the money for it, but had. failed to-do so; and that
he had not the money to pay on said venditioni exponas ; that
he did not want any motion against the marshal, for said money, and wished afierifaias on the judgment of the plaintiffs,
for the benefit-of the marshal. Hughes also pr6ved that he
had called on Gwin and told him, he wanted the money; and
this being all the evidence on the motion, the court gave judgment against Gwin and his sureties, as. above mentioned. To
all which proceedings of the court, as well as the rendition of
the judgment, the defendants -excepted.
The causes of error assigned by the counsel for Gwin were
that the court below erred in overrulintg the demurrer on the
part -of Gwin and his sureties, in sustaining the demurrer of the
.plaintiffs below, in admitting the bond, in admitting Hughes as
a witness, and in rendering the judgment.
The cause was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Johnson, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the record, that this was a summary proceeding,
by motioli in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

10

SUPREME COURT.
Gwin et al. v. Barton et al.

Southern District of Mississippi, aainst Gwin, late marshal of
the District, and Yerger and Hughes, the sureties in his official bond, for the default of the marshal in omitting to levy
the money upon a writ of venditioni ewponas. This summary
process was according to the provisions of a statute of Mississippi regulating proceedings upon executions in the courts of that
State, -and which was supposed, it seems, to have been adopted by the courts of the United States, when sitting in the State.
The defendants in error recovered a judgment against the marshal and his sureties jointly, in this summary way, for $2,920.30,'
with interest at the rate of thirty per cent. per annum from the
day on which the venditioni exponas was returnable.
It is unnecessary at this time to state particularly the provisions of the statute of the State, or to examine how far these
provisions can be enforced in a court of the United States.
For the subject was fully considered in the case of Gwin r.
Breedlove, 2 How. 29, and the decision in that case is conesive upon the case before us.
In the case referred to, the court held, that, so far as th(. statute of Mississippi authorized a summary process against the
marshal himself to enforce the payment of the debt, interest,
and costs, for which he was liable by reason of his default, it
was adopted by the act of Congress of 1828. But that the
courts of the United States could not enforce the paymhent of
a penalty imposed by the State law, in addition to the money
due on the execution. And in the same case, the court further
held, that such summary proceedings against the sureties of a
marshal .would be repugnant to the act of Congress of April
10th, 1806 ; and that if the plaintiff in the execution sought
to charge the sureties for the default of the marshal, he must
proceed'regularly by action, and obtain his judgment in the
manner and form pointed out by that law.
The judgment against the marshal and his sureties is, therefore, clearly erroneous. And if the proceeding had been against
the marshal alone, it could not have been sustained for the excess of interest awarded over and above the legal rate. For
this excess is evidently imposed as a penalty for the default.
The judgment must therefore be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

11

United States -. Daniel et al

this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law and justice, and
in-conformity to the opinion: of this court.

'rH

UNITED STATES, ?LAINTIPFS, v. 3JYmxs A"t JoH G. DANIEL,
ErscUTos "op BEvERLY DANIEL, LATE U. S. MATLSA.

An "action on the ease will not lie against the executors of a: deceased marshal,
where executions had been placed in th . hands 6f the marshal, and false-returns
made on some of them, and imperfect and insufficient entries on others.
The rule respecting abatement is this :.-If the person charged has received no benefit to himself at the expense of the sufferer, the cause of action does not survive. But where, by means of the offence, roperty is acquired which benefits
the property survives against the
the testator, there an action for the value
executor
As to the form of action, none will lie, at common law, against an executor, where
the general issue plea-is "not guilty."
THIS case came up from 'the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of North Carolina,. on a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
In August, 1841, the United States brought-an action of
trespass on tile case .againsi the defendants, as executors of
Bqverly Daniel, late fnarshal, and at May term, 1843, a verdict
was found for the plaintiffs, subject to the opinion of the court
upon the following, case stated.
Beverly Daniel beingin his lifetime marshal of the District
of North Carolina, certain executions, .at the instance of the
United States, from the District Court of Newbern, came
to the hands of one of therdeputies of the said marshal, Who,
in the name and on behalf of his principal , made false returns
upon some of them, and imperfect and insqfflcient entries on
others. After the death of Daniel, this action on the case was
brought against the defendants, his executors, to recover damages for the said false and insufficient returns; and it is contended, on the part of the defendants, that the action will not
lie, .and is not ustainable against them as executors, and it is
agreed by the parties that judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintiffs upon the said verdict, if the court shall be of opinion
that such action is sustainable; otherwise, the said verdict to
be set aside, and the said action t6 be discontinued.
The judges being divided in opinion, the cause came up to
this court, upon a certificate of such division.
The cause was argued by Mr. Clifford (Attorney-General),
on the part of the United States, and submitted on the record.
by Mr. Badger, on the part of the defendants.

