212 •

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Metropolis 0. New England Bank..

Allen before they received notice, &c., the court ordered and
decreed that the trustees should deliver over the property conveyed to them which had hot been disposed of,and that they
render an account to one of the commissioners of the court of
all the property which came to their hands, or either of them,
by virtue of said deed, and of moneys paid to the creditors,
&c.; which account the said commissioner is directed to state
and settle, and report the same to. the court, With any matters
specially stated deemed pertinent by himself, or which may be
required by the parties, in order to a final decree.
This decree is final only as to the trust-deed. All the matters arising under the trust are referred to a commissioner for a"
statement of the account, to enable the court' to enter a final
decree. There is no sale or change of the property ordered
which can operate injuriously to the parties. Under such circumstances, the decree not being final as to the whole matter
in controversy, the appeal must be dismissed,
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec.;
ord from the Circuit Court of the United Statesfor the Eastern
District of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the court here that the decree of the said Circuit Cbut in this cause is an interlocutory
and not a final one, it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that this cause be and the- same is
hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

THs. PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF TnE BAK OF TEE METRO io.zg
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. Tns PRESID9NT, DIRECTORS,AND COZO.iNY OF THE NEw ENGLAND BANK.
Referring to the case of the Bank ot the Metropolis against the Xbw England Bank,
reported in 1 Howard, 234, the following instructions to the jury upon the second
trial would have carried out the opinion of this court, viz. ,st. If upon the whole evidence before them, the jury should find that the Bank
of the Metropolis, at the time of the mutual dea hlgs between them, had notice
that the Commonwealth Bank had no interest in the bills or notes in questionj
and that it transmitted them for collection merely as agent, then the Bank of the
Metropolis was not entitled to retain against the New England Bank for the
general balance of th-e account with the Commonwealth Bank.
2d. And if the Bank of the Metropolis had not notice that the Commonwealth
Bank was merely an agent, but regarded and treated it as the owner of the paper
transmitted, yet the Bank of the Metropolis is not entitled against the real owners, unless credit was given to the Commonwealth Bank, or balances suffered to
remain in its hands, to be met by the negotiable paper transmitted, or expected to
be transmitted, in the usual coirse of the dealings between the two banks.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

213

Bank of Metropolis v. New Englant! Bank.
3d. But if the jury found, that, in the dealings mentioned in the testimony, the
Bank of the Metropolis regarded and treated the Commonwealth Bank as the
owner of the negotiable paper which it transmitted for collection, and had no
notice to the contrary, and, upon the credit of such remittances, made or anticipated in the usual course of dealing between them, balances were, from -time to
time, suffered to remain in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank, to be met by
the proceeds of such negotiable paper, then the Bank of the Metropolis is entitled to retain against the New England Bank for the balance of account due
from the Commonwealth Bank.

Tis case was brought up by -writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, sitting
forItthe
county
of Washington.
-was
the same
case which was before this

court at January
term, 1843, and is reported in. 1 Howard, 234. It is unnecessary, therefore, to state again the facts of the case which existed prior to that report.
The Supreme Coiit having yeversed the Judgment of the
Circuit Court, and directed it to award a veniie facias de novo,
the cause came up again for trial in the Circuit Court, at March
term, 1844. The result of the second trial-was a judgment in
favor of the New England Bank for $ 4,245.24, with interest
upon parts of. this sum from variou6 times.
The evidence offered' on the part of the plaintiff, and also
that on the part of 'the defendant,. are stated in the bill of e'
ceptions, with a reference to a great number of letteri and
accounts. " This evidence must be inserted in substance, in
oxder to render intelligible the prayers to the.coiirt. The first
prayer was made by the. defendant, and does -not appear to
have been excepted to by the plaintiff, although grantedby the
court; but the plaintiff then made a prayer for himself, which
was also granted by the court, and excepted to by the defend..
ant, and upon this exception the case came up. But the case
cannot be fully understood without spreading all this upon the
report of it.
Evidence on the Part of the plaintff,viz. the.New England
Bank.
On the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs, to maintain the is-,
sue on their part joined, offered evidence tending to show, that,
from the year 1834 to .-the year 1838, there had been extensive,
inutual dealings between the Bank of the Metropolis, in the
city of Washington, and-the Commonwealth Bank, a bank in
'Bopton,-in the State of Massachusetts, at which place the plaintiffs' bank is also situated ;' that both of these banks (the Metropolis and the Commonwealth) were selected by the government of the United States as deposit banks, and in consequence
became extensively employed as agents for other banks, and
for individuals, in.the transmission of neg'otiable paper for col-

SUPREME COURT.
Bank 6f Metropolis v. New England Bank.

-

leotion in the manner usual among such mnstitutions; that the
usage well known and established universally in the District of
Columbia, and throughout this country, in such cases, is for the
holder of negotiable paper to indorse and deliver it, without any
consideration, to a bank (or, if the bank is the holder, to another
bank), to be indorsed and delivered by such bank with which it
has been so deposited to another bank, and so on to transmit it
from bank to bank till it reaches its place of destination; that
when it is paid, the proceeds are credited to the bank by which
it was last indorsed, and by that bank to its indorser, and so
on back to the owner; but it is not usual for the banks to remit the precise amount so collected at the time of such'collections, but to place the same to the general credit of the bank
from which it was received to be settled by drafts or otherwise, as might be most convenient for such banks respectively;
and in case of non-payment, the costs thereof and postage ate
charged from. the one bank to the other till the owner is
*charged therewith; that it is also the usage and custom of the
banks receiving such paper to treat it in all respects as they do
their- own paper, but it is not usual for any bank to purchase
negotiable paper from another bank. That the' said Bank of
the Metropolis and the said Conhmonwealth Bank were extensively engaged in collecting and remitting to each other for
collection, on account of other banks and individuals, negotiable paper, deposited with either for that purpose; and in that
business they conformed to the usage aforesaid in the mode of
tkansmitting such paper.by indorsement, and also in the mode
of'keeping their accounts of such business; and it was the
uniform practice of the said Commonwealth Bank) in transmitting*such paper, to accompany the same with a letter, advising
the Bank of the Metropolis that it was "forwarde'd for collection" (letters copied in pages 22, &c.); but in some instances
they transmitted negotiable paper by letters in the following
form (copied in pages 25, &c.); that in the course of the said
dealing between the said two banks, repeated instances occurred
in which the Bank of the Metropolis directed the said Commonwealth Bank to. deliver to third parties'nogotiable paper,
which had been forwarded by the former to the latter; and
such direction was dotijplied with, and-the paper delivered according to such order, without reference to the state of tha
accounts between the said two banks; ad also, that either- of
the said two banks drew upon the other, from timeL to time, or
directed remittances to be made, without having regard to the
negotiable paper which had been befoye them, or was expected
to be remitted for collection.
They further offer6d evidence ten-dig. to show-, thitj during

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

215,

Bank of Metropolis v. New England Bnk,

the fall of the year 1837, the plaintiffs, being the holders of
certain negotiable paper coming due in the District of Columbia, at various times during the said fall and winter, indorsed
and delivered such paper to thQ said Commonwealth Bank,
without consideration, as the agent of the plaintiffs for that,
purpose, and according to the usage and custom above stated,
to be transmitted by said Commonwealth Bank to the said District for collection; and the said Commonwealth Bank, from
time to time, as it received the said paper from the plaintiffs,
indorsed and delivered the same, without consideration, and ac-,
cording to the said usage and custom, to the said defendants,
and in delivering them to defendants, they advised defendants
that such paper was forwarded for collection.
That on the 13th day of January, 1838, there were in the
hands of the defendants certain bills and notes, the property of
the plaintiffs, and which had. been indorsed and delivered by
plaintiffs to the Commonwealth Bank, in manner and according
to the usage and custom above stated, for c.ollection, without
consideration, and which had been indorsed by the last-mentioned bank to the Bank of the Metropolis, and forwarded to
the said defendants in letters, advising them in every instance
that the said paper was forwarded for collection; that on the
said 13th day of January, 1838, the said Commonwealth Banlk
gave to the plaintiffs an order in writing, addressed to the defendants, as follows (, pied in page 27, &c.);: that the said
letter was immediately forwarded by due course of mail to, and
received by, the defendants; that the said negotiable paper
amounts to the sum of $.4,466.75; that none of the'said paper
was due or had been paid to the defendants at the time of tho
receipt by them of said order of the 13th January, 1838, except
the sum of $241.01, and that sum had been carried to the
credit of the Commonwealth Bank in the general account with
said bank, ahd that the residue of the said paper was afterwards,'
and before the bringing of this suit, paid to the said defendants.; that the said negotiable paper, in the said, order of -the
13th January, 1838, mentioned, waslp~t of te .aper indorsed
and-delivered in the fall of 1837, as above itated, to. the Coi.monwealth Bank by the plaintiffs, according to-the u.sage and
custom above stated, without conside ration, to be collected for
.the'plaintiffs, according to the said usage and custom, and was,
at the time of such delivery, and ever after,. the property of the

phtintiffs.

And the plaintiffs further offered in evidence the following
deposifion of Charles Hood, viz.,: "I, Charles Hood,- now of Dorchestqr, in tba-epunty 9f .Nor.

216

SUPREME COURT.
Bapk of Metropolis v. New England Bank.

folk, in Massachusetts, formerly of the city of Boston, in the
county of Suffolk, on oath depose and say, that I was .ashier
of the Commonwealth Bank from the time of its commencing
to the time of its closing business; said bank having been a
bank established by law in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and having transacted business in Boston. I further
depose and say, that the papers exhibited by me to the magistrate taking my deposition, for the purpose of being annexed
thereto, and marked A, B, and C (copied in pages 33, &c.),
are riginal accounts current rendered by the Bank of the Metropolis, in Washington city, to said Commonwealth Bank.
"The said papers are all the accounts rendered by the said
Bank of the Metropolis to the said Commonwealth Bank, which
I can now find; said Bank of the Metropolis rendered one or
more accounts subsequent to these, which I cannot find, the
same having been lost or mislaid. I cannot find any previous
account rendered by said Bank of the Metropolis. The principal part of the items on the credit side of said accouht consists of checks and drafts, drawn by said Bank of the Metropo lis on said Commonwealth Bank; each draft or check being
indicated in the account by its number. I further depose and
say, that there was not, to my knowledge, 'at any time any
agreement or understanding between said t~vo banks, that the
balances due, from time to time, from one bank to the other,
should be suffered to remain in the- hands of either, to be met
by the proceeds of negotiable paper already transmitted, or-expected to be transmitted, in the usual course of business between them. If there had been any such understanding or
agreement between said banks, I, have not the least doubt I
should have known it. There was no usage or practice between said banks to allow any such balances due 'to the Commonwealth Bank to remain undrawn for, to be met by the
proceeds of ntgotiable paper transmitted, or expected to be
transmitted. I do not know of any usage or practice on the
part of the Bank of the Metropolis to 'allow balances due to
said bank from the Commonwealth Bank to remain undrawn
for, to be met by proceeds of paper transmitted, or to be transmitted, in the usual course of busifiess between said banks.
I further depose and say, that, in fact, the Commonwealth
Bank drew on the Bank of the Metropolis for its balances as
often as its. business or convenience required, without reference
to the negotiable paper held at the time,- or expected to be.
transmitted in the usual course of business, for payment or
collection, between said banks. This practice was uniform.
I further depose and say, that, in pursuance of 'an understanding between said banks, each of them occasionally overdrew

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

217

Bank of Metropolis v. New England'Bank.

upon the other, as its convenience required. I further depose
and say, the two papers exhibited by me to the magistrate
taking this deposition, for the purpose of being annexed thereto, marked D, E (copied in page 55, &c.), are true copies of
letters transmitted by said Commonwealth Bank to said Bank
of the Metrop6lis, at or about the'time of their respective dates.
I further depose and say, that the said two banks were, among
others, originally selected as deposit banks by the government. The deposit banks became extensively the agents of
other banks and institutions, for the purpose of making collections in various and distant parts of the United States. It has
never been the practice of banks, as far as I know, to purchase
negotiable paper held by other banks, and take the indorsement
of such other banks, or without such indorsement.
SCHARLES ROO."

The plaintiffs also ogered in evidence a great number ot
letters and accounts which had been transmitted between the
Bank of the Metropolis dnd the Commonwealth Bank.
The evidence offered on the part' of the Bank of the Metropolis was as follows.
-(I And the said defendants, in order to maintain and prove
the issue on their part, gave to the jury competent and legal
evidence tending to prove that it is. and, has long been the
uniform practice and usage of the banks in the District of
Columbia, when. commercial paper is transmitted to it for
collection by banks or individuals, when indorsed by the party
so remitting it; and in the absence of information that any
other persoii or party has an interest therein, to treat and deal
with the party so making the remittance as the owner of the
same, the proneeds, when received, are credited to his account,
and he is charged in said account with all the expenses attending the same, as costs, protests, postage, &c. That this usage
and-practice uniformly prevailed in the dealings between tjie
said Commonwealth Bank and the Bank of the Metropolis; that.
they mutually transmitted funds and paper of different kinds
to each other, go'e
'mentdrafts,
certificates of deposit, bills,
notes, and drafts of "pit te -individuals; that all of every de-scription, were carried into the genral 6-oments ie'urrent between the two institutions which.axe b6th banking. institutioni,
regularly and dulyc.hartired, 6nd' genaged' exclusively in the
business of banking; that, in .the account current, each-'baak
was regularly credited by.the other with the proceeds of 'aft
such commercial paper thus received 'by it from -the -other,
when collected, and charged with the costs of collection, protests, and postage cdunected with the same. That on the 13th
vOL..-V.
I6,-,

2-18

SUPREME COURT.
Ban.k of Metropolis v. New r-zgland Bank.

January; 1838, the said Bank of the Metropolis was in the
possession of the bills, drafts, notes, &c., being all" commercial
and negotiable paper, enumerated and mentioned in the said
letter from C. -Hood of that date, the same having been, from
time to time, tr4ismitted by said Commonwealth Bank to said
Baik of the Metropolis, in the course'of their said mutual
dealings and business, in letters; which letters from said Commonwealth Bank, so far as they are deemed material, are as
fellows (copied in 'the record). That each of said drafts,
-bills, notes, &c., was indorsed by the payees thereof, respecfively, to the New England Bank, specially indorsed by
the cashier of said New England Bank to the cashier of the
Commonwealth Bank, and by him likewise specially indorsed
to the cashier of the Bank of the Metropolis; that the same had
all been transmitted within the two or three months preceding
the said 13th of Januitry; that all said paper was indorsed and
transnitted in the same form in whidh paper the property of
the bank remitting the same was indorsed and sent. That the
said Commonwealth Bank failed, and became publicly insolvent, early in January, 1838, before the said letter of the 13th
of Januafy was written; that said letter cofttained hnd gave the
first information, or notice, ever received by the Bank of the
Metropolis, that said New England Bank was, or claimed to be,
the owner of said paper so held by the Bank of the Metropolis.
That the accounts between said parties, so kept as aforesaid,
were regularly receivdd by, and transmitted from, said banks
respectively (the Commonwealth and Metropolis. Banks), and
no objection-was ever made to the -form or manner thereof,
the last of which is here inserted tA, defendants' statement,
copied in the record); that the balances 'were sometimes large,
sometimes small, sometimes in favor of the one, sometimes of
the other; that, on the 24th of November, 1837; the balance
was in favor-of the Commonwealth Bank to the amount of
$2,200; that at the time the said letter of 13th of January,
1838, was written and received, the balance due to the Bank of
the. Metropolis was $ 3,541.17J."
-of

Defendants' Prayer.

Whereupon the defendats, by their counsel, prayed the
couirt to instruct the jury, -.
That if, from the evidence aforesaid, they shall find that the
course of dealing between the said Commonwealth Bank and
the Bank of the Metropolis, as-stated ill said evidence, actually
existed, and had continued for several years prior to January,
1838; that their dealingp had been mutual and extensive ; that
aceounts current existed between them, in which they were re-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

219

Bank of,Metropolis v. New England Bank.

spctively credited with the proceeds of all notes, bills, drafts,
&c., transmitted to the other for collection when the same were
rdceived, and charged with all the expenses attending the same,
as postage, costs of protests, &c. ; that from time to time such
accounts were regularly transmitted from each to the other,
which accounts were mutually acquiesced in without objection; that the balances on the account current fluctuated from
time to time, according to the amount of money, bills, notes,
&c., remitted; that upon the credit of such negotiable paper
thus transmitted or expected to be sent, or upon the credit of
such mutual dealings, each party was in the practice 6f drawing and accepting drafts and orders on or by the other%; that
said banks uniformly received the notes, bills, drafts, &c., transmitted by the other for collection, and always regarded and
treated them as the property of the other; that the .notes,
drafts, and bills enumerated in the letter from C. Uood to G.
Thomas of the 13th of January, 1838, were all so received,
regarded, and treated; that the defendants had no notice or
knowledge, until the receipt of said letter of the 13th of January, 1838, that said Commonwealth Bank was not the-absolute
and only owner of the same, or that plaintiffs had any interest
in, or claim .to, the same; that said Commonwealth Bank became insolvent some few days prior to the said 13th of January, 1838, at which time the Bank of the Metropolis had in its
possession, so held 'and received in the course of said mutual
business, the notes, bills, &c., mentioned in said letter of 13th
of January, 1838; that in the course of said mutual business,
it was the practice and usage of each of said banks (the Commonwealth and Metropolis) to draw upon the other, as its exigencies or conveniences required, even beyond the amount of
the 'balances then due to it on general account, which drhfts it
was also their usage and practice to accept and pay on the
credit of anticipated .remittances of negotiable paper or funds,
or on the credit Qf such mutual dealings and course of business;
and it was also the practice and usage of both said banks to
suffer and permit ascertained balances to lie undrawi. for on the
same credits; that at the time the said Commonwealth Bank
became insolvent, and when said letter of January 13, 1838,
was written and received, there was a balance of $ 2,900 or
other sum due on said general account from said Commonwealth Bank to the Bank of the Metropolis ; - then the defendahts were entitled to hold and retain the said notes, drafts, bills,&c., so in their possession, and the proceeds of the same, when
received, until the tender or payment of such balance; and the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this action, until they
show, to the satisfaction of the jury; that before action brought

* 220

SUPREME COURT.
Bank'of Metropolis v. New England Bank.

such balance was paid or tendered to said defendants.
was given.

Which

Defendants' Bill of Ecpc-twns.
And thereupon, and after 'the court had given the said instruction to the jury 6n theprayer of said defendants, the
plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury, that. if, from the
evidence aforesaid, the jury shall find that the notes mentioned
in the said letter, dated the 13th day of January, 1838, from
Charles Hood, cashier of the Commonwealth Bank, to George
Thomas, cashier of the Bank of the Metropblis, were received
by the said Commonwealtr Bank from the said plaintiffs,
and were at the time of such receipt the property of the

jilaintiffs.
That they were deposited by the plaintiffs with the said
Commonwealth Bank, to be transmitted by it for collection
only.
That the said Commonwealth Bank rec ived the said notes
-6nly as the agent of the plaintiffs, and without giving any con.sideration for them, or receiving any coinpensation as such
agent to transmit them for collectionj and never had any right,
title, or interest in. or claim or lien ipon,the said notes, except
as agent aafqresaid
That the said Commonwealth Bank, as agent as aforesaid,
and not otherwise, did in fact transmit the said-notes to said
defendant~for collection o
. That the -said notes were indorsed by the cashier of thd
plaintiffs, as cashier,.aRd by the cashier of the said Commonwealth Bank, as cashier, in the mode and form commonly used
by banks in the United States.in.the'transmission of negotiable paper deposited with, and transmitted through, such banks
for collection. '
That- the usage to deposit in one bank such paper so indorsed to be transmitted, and for such deposit bank to indorse.
such paper in the manner aforesaid, and to transmit the same so
indorsed to another bank, is a common usage throughout the
United States, and that the custom so to indorse such negotiable paper is universal.
That the Bank'of the Metropolis and the said Commonwealth
Bank were extensively engaged as the agents of other .banks,
and with each other, in the transmission for collection and in the
collection of negqtiable .paper belonging to third parties, in the
years 1836 and 1837, in various and distant parts of the United
Statesr and that the common form of indorsement used in the
transmission of such negotiable paper by the said Comimonwealth Bank and .the Bank of the .Metropolis was such as was

JANUARY TERM,'; 1848.
Bank.
Bank of Metropolis v. New England

221
7

used by the said Commonwealth Bank in the-ind6rsement aid
transmission of said notes, for the proceeds of which this suit.
is brought; and that neither of the said banks, under the said
usage and custom, held the other liable upon such indorsement.
That the said notes last mentioned -were. transmitted to the
said Bank of the Metropolis in letters, notifying the -defendants
that they were transmitted for collection in the form coimmonly
used by said banks in.transmitting negotiable paper'for collection, and with no other intention as to w.ho was the real owner
of such negotiable paper; then it is comfltent for the jury to
infer, from the facts aforesaid, that the defendants had notice
that the said paper was tiansmitted by the said Commonwealth
Bank as agent, and ndt as the owner thereof. -And if the. jury
shall so find, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover, notwitlistanding the jury shall find that the said Commonwealth Bank
and the Bank of the Metropolis treated each other as the true
owners of the paper so remitted ; and*notwithstanding they
shall further find that balaices -were,from time to-time, suffered
to remain in the hands.of each other, to be met by the .proceeds
of negotiable paper deposited, or expected to-be transmitted, in
the usual course of dealing-between them;- and notwitlistanding the course orfdealing. .tated in the instruction. heretofore
given at the instance of the defendants.
. To the giving of which instruction, as prayed, the counsel
for the defendant. objected; but the court overruled such ob-.
jection., and instructed the jury as requested; to which the
defendant by his counsel excepts, and prays the court to seal
this.bill of exceptions, which is accordingly done, this sixth day
of September, 1844.

[sE..]
W. ClANCH,
JAMES S. MORtSELL. [sXM.]
Upon this exception, the case came up "to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Cose, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Bradley, for the defefidant in error.
Mr. Coze, for the plaintiff in error.
This cause was before this court in 1843, and is reported in:
1 Howard,.234.
The proceedings remain as thley originally stood. Th6 evidence on the second tfial is supposed to be substantially the
same as on the first.
On the former argument, this"court decided, that, wherever
a banker has advanced money to another, he has a lien on all
the paper securities which are in his hands for the amount of
19.* "

222

SURREME COURT.
Bank of Metropolis v. New England Bank.

his general balance, unless such securities were delivered to
him under a particular agreement. 1 Howard, 239. That the
paper in question was, however, th6 property of the New England Bank, and was indorsed and delivered to the Commonwealth Bank for collection, without consideration, as its agent,
in the ordinary course of business, it being usual, and indeed
necessary, so to indorse it in order to enable the agent to receive the money. Yet the possession of the paper was ima
facie evidence that it was the property of the last-mentioned
.bank; and, without notice to the contrary, the plaintiff in error
had a right so to treat if, and was under no obligation to inquire
whether it was held as agent or owner. Ibid.
The instructions asked of the court by the parties respectively are found in the present record, pp. 31- 33. The court
gave both, as asked. In the defenda at's statement, the facts
given in evidence are detailed. In the instruction given at
the instance of plaintiff, some portion of these facts is stated.
The main difference between the two seems to consist in this.
In the defendant's prayer, the supposed state of facts to be
found by the jury includes this, - " that the defendant had no
notice or knowledge, until the receipt of said letter from C.
Hood to G. Thomas, of the 13th January, 1838, that said
Commonwealth Bank was not the absolute and only owner of
the same, or that plaintiff had any interest in or claim to the
same."
In the plaintiff's prayer, the court is called upon to instruct
the jury, that "it is competent for them to infer, from the facts
aforesaid, that the defendant had notice that the said paper was
transmitted by the Commonwealth Bank as agent, and not as
the owner" ; and so finding, their verdict should be for plaintiff.,
The main, if not the entire, grouild upon which the plaintiff
below rested, to establish this fact of notice, is the usage to
deposit in one bank indorsed paper to be transmitted to'a distant bank for collection, and for the bank with whom such
deposit is made to indorse and transmit the same, as was done
in this case.
The prayer to the court below, offered on the part of the
Bank of the Metropolis, was in nearly the words of this court
in the former case. (MJr. Coxe then read and compared the
prayer with the opinion of the court in 1 Howard, -234.)
M11r. Bradley, for the defendant in error, laid down the following propositions 1st. There was evidence to go to the jury to sustain each
one of the propositions stated in the prayer granted by the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

223

Bank of Metr.opolis v. New England Bank;

Circuit Court, and the granting of which is .alleged as error..
2d. The inference which the court instructe -the jury it
was competent for them to draw was fully justified by those.
propositions.- And,
3d. If that inference was drawn by the jury, the instruction
of the court was right.
In maintaining these propositions, it is proposed to show,
1st. That the Commonwealth. Bank was the agent of the
defendant in error for a particular purpose, in the course of a
well-known and long-established business, the usages of which
required the employment of sub-agents, who are responsible
directly to the principal, and the plaintiff in error was subagent.
2d. That no agreement or understanding between the agents
could destroy, or in any manner impair, thb rights of the principal, he being known, and not a party or privy to such agreement.
3d. That no lien could have existed in favor ot the plaintiffs
in error for any balance, general or otherwise, due to them from
their correspondent, the Commonwealth Bank, which could
attach to the negotiable paper, or the proceeds thereof, of the
defendants in error, forwarded to them by that-bank for collection, in the course of the regular business of collecting.
4th. There is abundant evidence to show, that the subagents, the plaintiffs in error, knew, or might and ought to have
known, that they were not the property of the Commonwealth
Bank, but had been forwarded for account of others. And
There is no error in the instruction given by the Circuit
Court.
On the first proposition, Mr. Bradley cited 9 East, 12; 7
Bingh. 284; 6 Mass. 430; 19 Yes. 299 ; 1 Rose, 154, 243, 232;
1 Bos. & PUl. 648, 546.
The Commonwealth Bank was an agent in the course of a
well-understood and long-established business, the. course of
which required the employment of sub-agents. Its whole authority was to appoint a sub-agent. Triplett v. Bafi of Washington, 1 Peters, 28, 30, 35.
The known usages of trade nd business often become the
true exponents of the nature and extent of an implied authority; for in all such cases the presumption is, the agency is to
be exercised according to the practices which are allowed and
justified by such usages, &c. 2 Kent's Comm. lect. 41, pp.
614, 616 (4th ed.); Wilshire v. Sims, 1 Camp. 258; Young v.
Cole, 4 Scott, 489.
A person who employs a broker must be supposed to give
-

224

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Metropolis v. New Engldnd Bank.

him authority to act as other brokers in like cases. Dalton v.
Tatham, 10 Adolph. & Ell. 27, 29, 30.
A person who employs a broker on the stock exchange impliedly gives him authority to act in accordance with the rules
there established, though such principal may be ignorant of the
rules.
Every authority as agent carries with it or includes all the
powers which are necessary or proper or usual as a means to
effectuate the purposes for which it was created. In every
case it embraces the appropriate means to accomplish the end.
Ekins v. Mlacklish, Ambl. 184, 186; Paley on Agency (Lloyd's),
198, note, 290, 291; 1 Livermore, 103, 104; Story on Agency,
§§ 97,.85.
And in many cases the power to delegate his authority is implied from the ordinary custom of trade, or it is understood by
the parties to be the mode in which the particular business
would or might be done. Story on Agency, § 14, cites Coles v.
Trecothick, 9 Yes. 234, 51, 52; 1 Bell's Comm. 387 - 391 ; Shipley v. Kymer,. I Maul. & Selw. 484; Cockran v.Irlan, 2 Maul.
& Sehv. 301, 303, note; Laussatt v. Lippincott, 6 Serg. & Rawle,
386; Johnson v. Cunningham, 1 Alab. N. S. 249. And wherever any express or implied authority to appoint a sub-agent is
given or allowed by the principal, a privity is created between
them. Livermore, ch. 2, § 4, pp. 56 - 59 ; Story, 201 ; Goswell v. Dunkley, 1 Str. 681; and see Brandy v. Coswell, 2
Bos. & Pul. 438-; Cockran v. Irlam, 2 Maul. & Selw. 301, 303,
note ,, Merrick v. Barnard, 1 Wash. 0. 1,. R. 479; Foster v.
Preston, 8 Cow. 198.
Second point. That no agreement, ,- understanding between the agents could destroy, or in any manner impair, the
rights of the principal, he being known and not a party or privy to such agreement. 10 Adolph. & Ell. 27, 29, 30; 1 Peters,
25; 15 Wend. 486; 22 ib. 216 et seq.; 12 Conn. 303.
3d. That no lien could have existed in favor of the plaintiffs
in error for any balance, general or otherwise, due to them
from their correspondent, the Commonwealth Bank, whichcould
attach to the negotiable paper, or the proceeds thereof, of the
*defendants in error, forwarded to them by that bank for collection, in the course of the regular business of collecting. Story,
Agency, § 360 and cases there cited; ibid. §§ 362, 379, 381.
tpon the 4th point, Mr. Bradley entered into a minute examination of the letters and accounts.
The grounds of the former decision were two.
1st. That the Bank of the Metropolis received the, paper
without,- any notice that it was the property of a third person,
and treated it as if the Commonwealth Bank was.the true own-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

225

Bank of Metropolis v. New England Bank.

er, and was therefore factor, broker, or banker, of the Con-monwealth Bank.
2d. That balances were from time to time suffered to remain
in the hands of these banks respectively, to be met by the proceeds of negotiable paper deposited or expected to be transmitted in the usual course of dealing between them.
But there is abundant evidence in the present record to
show, 1st. Notice.
2d. That they drew without regard to the balances, and also without regard to the negotiable paper.
1. As to evidence of notice.
1st. The forms of the indorsements showed that there was
a bank before the Commonwealth Bank, and it "is not usual
for any bank td purchase negotiable paper from- another bank."
9d. All this paper was transitted in letters tiotifying the
Bank of the Metropolis that it was "forwarded for collection,"
while in regard to other paper they adopted a different form.
3d: The usage.
4th. That the parties did not hold each other liable on th,
indorsements.
5th. That they were indorsed and forward6d by the Commonwealth Bank to the Bank of the Metropolis, without consideration, and with notice that they were for collection.
2. They.drew without regard to the balances, and therefore
advances w.ere not made on the faith of the notes. This is
-shown by the accounts current between the parties, by the correspondence between the cashiers, and by the deposition of Mr.
Hood, all of which are in the record.
Mr. Coxe,-in reply, said that this court had formerly decided,
that unless the Bank of- the Metropolis had notice of the ownership of the bills, -it had a right to hold them for its lien.
Was there such notice? The plaintiffs below bhad tried to
make t out, but only made out sich a usage as had appekred
to this court on the former trial. .AIl the five points discussed
by the .counsel on the opposite side were before the court in
the former case.
(Mr. Coae then made an examination of them in order to
show this.)
Mr. Chief Justice'TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was -before the court at January term, 1843, and is
reported in 1 Howard, 234. • The judgment of the Circuit
Court was then reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to award-a veniref'cias de novo.

228

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Mdtropolis v. New England Bank.

Upon the second trial some additional testimony appears to
have been offered, and two instructions given by the court to
the 'jury, one upon the prayer of the defendant, the other
upon the prayer of the plaintiff, to the last of which the defendant, Who is now the plaintiff in error, excepted; and the
judgment of the Circuit Court being against him, he has again
brought the case here by writ of error.
The opinion expressed by this court in reversing the former
judgment and remanding the case is summed up in the following paragraph in .1 Howard, 240.
It If, therefore," say the court, "the jixry find that the course
of dealing between the Commonwe .lth Bank and the Bank of
the Metropolis was such as is stated in the testimony; that
they always appeared to be. and treated each other as the true
owners of the paper mutually remitted, and had no notice -to
the contrary; and that balances were from time to time suffered to remain in the hands of each other, to be met by the proceeds of negotiable paper deposited or expected to be transmitted in the usual course of dealing between them, then the plaintiff in error is entitled. to retain for the amount due on the settlement of the account."
The only question now open upon this second writ of error
is, whether the Circuit Court, in their instructions to the jury,
have conformed to this opinion. We have examined them
with a good deal of care, and regret to find them so complicated and involved, that we have some difficulty in ascertaining
the meaning of the Circuit Court. It would seem to be almost
impossible for a jtiry acting under such instructions to comprehend distinctly the issues of fact upon which they were to find
their verdict. Indeed, as we understand these two instructions,
the last paragraph in the second seems to this court to be inconsistent with the direction contained in the first. And if the last
.instruction stood by itself, without any reference to the first, it
mighL perhaps be construed to be substantially the same with
the directions given by the Circuit Court at the former trial,
which were reversed upon the former writ of error.
It is not usual in remanding a case to state in the opinion of
this court the particular manner in which the instructions to
the jury should have been framed, but to state in the opinion
the principles of law which govern the case as it -appears in
the record, and leave -it to the Circuit Court to apply them to
the case, as it may appear in evidence upon the second trial, in
such manner and form as it may think advisable. From the
manner, however, in which the directions of the Circuit Court
appear in the record before us, upon the trial under the mandate,- we may perhaps prevent future difficulty by stating the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

227

Bank of Mietropolisr. New England Bank.

form in which instructions to the jury might have been given
so as to carry into effect the opinion of this court, and enable
the jury to understalad more clearly the points in issue before,them. Of course we do not mean to prescribe this form to
the Circuit Court when the case again comes before it, because the testimony then offered may. differ materially from
that now contained in the record. But if, instead of the complex instructions under which the case was decided at the last
trial, the following directions had been given, itwould have
conformed to the opinion of this cdurt 'when the case was formerly before it, and at the same time have enabled the jury to
understand more distinctly the matters of fact in dispute be-*
tween the parties, and submitted to them for decision
1. If, upon the whole evidence before them, the jury should
find that the Bank of the Metropolis,, at the time of- the mutual
dealings between them, had norice that the Commonwealth
Bank had no interest in the bills and notes in question, and
that it transmitted them for collection merely as agent, then
the Bank of the Metropolis was not entitled to retain against
the -New England Bank for the general balance of the account with the Commonwealth Bank.
2. And if the Bank of the Metropolis had not notice that
the Commonwealth Bank was merely an agent, but regarded
and treated it as the owner of the paper transmitted, yet the
Bank of the Metropolis is not entitled to retain against the real
owners, unless credit was given to the Commonwealth- Bank,
or balances suffered to remain in its hands to be met by the
negotiable paper transmitted or expected. to be' transmitted in
the usual course of the dealings between the two banks.
3. But if the jury found that,- in the dealings mentioned in
the testimony, the Bank of the Metropolis regarded arid treated
the Commonwealth Bank as the owner of the negotiable paper
which it transmitted for collection,. and had no notice to the
contrary, and upon the credit of such remittances made or anticipated in the usual course of dealing between them bal,
ances were from time to time suffered to remain in the hands"
of the Commonwealth Bank, to be met by the pioceeds of such
negotiable paper, then the plaintiff in error is entitled to retain
against the defendant in error for the balance. of account due
from the Commonwealth Bank.
We restate the former opinion of this court in this form, because we presume it must have b6en misunderstood by the
Circuit' Court. And as it was not followed in the proceedings
under the mandate, the judgment must be reversed, and thq
cause remanded, with directions to award a venire facias, de
1zovo.

228

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

Order.
This cause came on to be. heard on the. transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden inand for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this cour, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby.reversed; with costs, -and that .this cause be and: the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
Iad
a 'enirefaas
de nova.

RicA3nD B'N. AND

.MRY,ms WIFE, APE.LL'ANTS, v. M Ry HEATH.

The Civil Code of Louisiana (article 2412) enacts, that "the wife, whether separated in property by contract orby judgment or not separated, cannot bind herself for her husband, nor cdnjointly with him, for debts contracted by him before
or during the marriage."
Where a wife mortgaged her property to raise money, and the question did not
turn upon, her doing so as the surety of her husband, it was not necessary for
the lender to prove that the proceeds of the loan inured to her separate use.,
The fact of the application of the money may be proved to show the character of
Ahe transaction, with a view of establishing collusion or fraud.
The decisions of the State courts of Louisiaua upon this subject examined.
Where a wife mortgaged her property, and' then sought relief in chancery upon
the grotind that the contract was void in consequence of her disability to contract, and, it was shown that the lender acted in good faith
; proceeded cautiously
under legal advice, under assurances that the loan was for the exclusive use of
the wife, to Whom the money was actually, paid; the-interest upon the loan paid
for several years;. the mortgaged roperty insured by her, and the policy assigned
to the mortgagee ;-a bill to relieve her from the contract cannot recerye the
sanction of a court of equity.
But it is no objection to such a bill, as a rule of pleading, that the husband is made
a party to it with the wife. He acts only as her prochin ama.

Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, sitting as a court
of The
chancery.
facts are. sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Johnson, for the
appellants, and Mr. Bradley and Mr. Jones, for the appellee.
There were also printed briefs for the appellee filed by Mr.
Eustis and by Messrs.'Elmore and King.
.Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants, stated
the substance of
the case as follows.
The bill in this case was fled by the appellants, Bein and
wife, t9 enjoin proceedings under a writ of seizure and sale

