SUPREME COURT.

14

Collier v. Stanbrough.

lie, at common law, against the executor. Upon the face of
the record, the action arises ex delicto ; and all private criminal
injuries or wrongs, as well as all public crimes, are buried with
the offender. 3 Bar. Abr. 539.
The provision in the 10th section of the North Carolina statute, "to prevent the abatement of suits in certain cases,"which declares that an action of trespass on the case, &c., shall
not abate by the death of either party,-does not affect the
above question.
This court think that the action, in the form prosecuted, is
not maintainable; and they direct the fact to be so certified to
the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of North .Carolina, and on the point or question on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in suc*h cases made and provided, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that the action in the form prosecuted
will not lie. It is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that it be so-certified to the said Circuit Court.

• LEwis

A.

COLLIER,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, v. JosIAi STANBROUGH.

By the laws of Louisiana, debts which are due to. a defendant, against whom an
execution has issued, may be seized and sold. But they must first be appraised
at their cash value, and if two thirds of such appraised value is not bid, the sheriff must adjourn the sale and again advertlise the property.
.This mode of proceeding was adopted by a rule of the Ciicuit Court of the United
States, and was therefore obligatory upon the marshal.
Where the marshal made a sale of some promissory notes secured by mortgage,

without an appraisement, and sold them fofless than one third of their amount,
the sale was void.

THIs case was brought up, by a writ of error, issued under
the 20th section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court
for the Western District of Louisiana.
In 1838, David Stanbrough was appointed, by the local authority in Louisiana, curator of the estate of one Harper, deceased.
In 1840, he was sued as curator, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by the
Farmers' Bank of Virginia. Judgment was rendered against
him, which became final on default.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

15

Collier v. Stanbrough.

On the 6th of February, 1841, Stanbrough, the curator, etposed to sale some property of Harper, the deceased, which
was in the inventory taken by the Probate Court of Madison,
which court granted the order for a sale. Dougal McCall became the purchaser, for the sum of $ 11,433.66, divided into
three payments of-$ 3,811.22 each, for which he gave three
promissory notes, payable to the order of David Stanbrough,
curator, at the Merchants' Bank of New Orleans, on the 1st of
January, 1842, 1843, and 1844. And in order to secure the
payment of the notes, he executed a mortgage upon the purchased property.
At some time subsequent to this, but when the record does
not show, a fieri facias was issued upon the judgment which
the Farmers' Bank of Virginia had obtained against Stanbrough, the curator, and a levy was made upon the three notes
above mentioned.
On the 31st of December, 1841, David Stanbrough, the curator, filed a petition, in the nature of a bill in chancery to the
Court of Probates in the Parish of Madison,,praying, amongst
other things, for an injunction to restrain the marshal from further proceedings upon the execution.
On the 10th of March, 1842, the court &anted the injunction as prayed for.
On the 1st of April, 1842, Stanbrough filed a supplemental
petition, stating that the parties enjoined continued to advertise the notes for sale, praying that proceedings might be had
against the parties for a contempt of court, that the editor of
the piper might be enjoined from further publication of the
advertisement, and that Dougal McCall might be enjoined from'
paying the notes to any person except the petitioner. An injunction was issued accordingly, on the same day.
This injunction being afterwards dissolved, the marshal proceeded to sell, on the 9th of April, 1842, the' property levied
upon, being the three notes of McCall given to Stanbrough,
the curator. The property was offered for sale and sold to
Lewis A.*Collier, the plaintiff in error in the present case. A
transfer in writing was made of said prop6rty by the marshal
to Collier. The seizure of'the notes was mad- by notifying
David Stanbrough, in whose hands they were, that they were
thereby seized by virtue of the execution, but they never came
to the corporal possession of the marshal. The transfer was
returned to the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court of the
United States, and there duly recorded.
On the 30th of July, 1842, Josiah Stanbrough, the defendant
in error in the present suit, filed a petition in the Ninth District
Court of the State of Louisiana., stating that the first note of

16

SUPREME COURT.
Collier v. Stanbrough.

McCall, which became due on the"4th of January, 1842, had
been protested for non-payment; that it had been transferred
by the curator, the payee, to one Jesse Stanbrough, and by the
said Jesse to him, the petitioner.
He therefore prayed for an order of seizure and sale of the
property mentioned in. the mortgage, for cash enough to pay
the note then due, and upon a credit sufficient to meet the other
payments
they should- become due in.succession.
On the as
same
day,'an order of seizure and sale was issued
in
conformitk with the prayer of the petition.
On the 14th of December) 1842, Collier Iiled a petition in
the same court,-viz, the Ninth District Court of the State of
Louisiana, in which he recited the facts in the case, and then
alleged that Josiah Stanbrough had illegally and fraudulently
obtained possession of the note then due; that David Stanbrough, the curator, had become leagued with Josiah Stanbrough to defraud the petitioner and all other creditors of
Harper's estate; that if the petitioner wa not the legal owner
of the notes, then they were the property of Harper's estate;
-that Josiah Stanbrough never gave any value for them; and,
finally, praying for an injunction against all parties concerned,
which should afterwards be made perpetual.
An injunction to stay further proceedings was accordingly
issued.
On the 4th of May,. 1843, Josiah Stanbrough liled his answer,
denying all the allegations of th( p~tition, and averring that
the property of the succession of Harper, whilst administered
in -the Probate Court of Louisiana, could not- be legally subjected to any-writ of execution from the federal courts, and
claiming twenty per cent. damages.
Before the cause was tried, the following admission of facts
was filed, viz.: LEwis A. COLLIER "V.JOSIAH STANBROUGH.
Ninth District Court of the State of Louisiana, for the Parish
of Madison.
The plaintiff in injunction relies upon the following facts,
and he cannot go safely to trial-without the documents necessary to prove them: 1. Some two or three years since, a judgment was obtained
in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, against David Staubrough, as curator of the succession of Jesse Harper, deceased, upon a claim against the succession of said Harper, at the suit of the Farmers' Bank of
Virginia (perhaps the suit is styled "The President, Directors,
and Company of the Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. David Stan-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

17

Collier v. Stanbrough.

brough, curator of the estate of Jesse Harper"); all whieh
will appear by the judgment.
2. Some twelve or fifteen months since, an execution (afieri
facias) issued from said United States Circuit Court, at the instance of the plaintiff in said suit, and under said execution a
levy was made on the three notes mentioned in the petition of
the plaintiff in injunction; and, after due advertisement, the
property was offered for sale, and was sold to Lewis A. Collier,
the plaintiff in injunction, and a transfer, in writing, was made
of said property, by the marshal, to said Collier. The seizure
of the notes relied on was made by notifying David Stanbrough, in whose hands they were, that they were thereby
seized by virtue of said execution, but they nevercame to the
corporal possession of the marshal; all which will appear by
the execution, the return of the marshal thereon, and the conveyance of the marshal to Collier as aforesaid'.
3. Said transfer was returned to the~office of the clerk of
said United States court, and there duly xecorded.
The statement of facts, on -which.the plaintiff in injunction
relies, as mentioned above, and which facts are hereinbeforeenumerated, is admitted by the defendant 'in injunction to. be
BE:Mss, J. DUNLAP, B.-M. BRAWDuR;
true.
Attorneys for Defendants.
The plaintiff in injunction admits that the notes in contr-,.
versy were never appraised, and that the sale was made with6ut appraisement, and that the notes in question belopged to
the succession of said Harper, which said sudcession, at the
time the said seizure was made, in manner stated above, was in
due course of administration in the Probate Court of the Parish
R. C. STOCKTON, Attlyfor Coler.
of Madison.
-The following facts were also admitted, viz.: Admitted, that Lewis A. Collier is a creditor of Jesse Harper's estate, and that for two years, at least, the said succession
has been insolvent.
Admitted, that the judgment in the case of the Farmers'
Bank of Virginia agahst David Stanbrough, curator of the
succession of Jesse Harper, deceased; rendered in the. United
*States Circuit Court of the Eastern District of the State -of
Louisiana, was made final on default.
Admitted, that David Stanbrough is now, and has been,.curator of the succession of Jesse Harper, deceased, ever since the.
1st day of Janury. 1840.
Admitted, that David and Jesse Stanbrough are brothers, and
Josiah Stanbrough-'is the. son of Jesse; that they all live within
some three or four miles of each other;. that Jesse Stanbrough

SUPREME COURT.
Collier v. Stanbrough.

is security fbr David on his curator's bond, as curator of Harper's estate.
Admitted, thaf in the estate of Harper there was an inventory
taken by the Probate Court of Madison of said succession of
Harper,an order of sale, and sale of the property of Harper's
estate, and the notes in dispute are of the proceeds of sale;
that all those proceedings took place by order of the Probate
Court.
It is admitted, that there is no order on the records of the
Court of Probates ordering the estate of Jesse Harper to be
insolvent.
Admitted, that Mr. Stockton, a creditor for $ 1,000, has
never received from the estate of Jesse Harper but $ 250.
On the 16th of May, 1843, the court made the following
decree "By reason of the law and the evidence being in favor of the
defendant, Josiah Stanbrough, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the injunction sued out in this case be dissolved;
and it is further decreed, that the defendant recover of the said
plaintiff, Lewis A. Collier, and his surety, Archibald Matthews,
in solido, the sum of four hundred and twenty-seven dollars
damages, being ten per cent. upon the amQunt of said defendant's claim, when enjoined, and that said plaintiff pay the costs
of "thissuit to be taxed."
From this-decree art appeal, was had to the Supreme Court
of the State, which.affirmed the judgment of the District Court,
with costs.-'
A .vrit-of error was sued out to- bring the case up to this
court, and the following assignment of errors filed.
"Plaintiff assigns for cause, for which the judgment of the
honorable theSupreme Court of Louisiana ought to be reversed
by the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States, and
a judgment rendered in his favor, as prayed for in his original
petition, as follows, to wit? "1. The decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana denies
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the State of Louisiana the power to execute judgments rightfully rendered by
said Circuit Court against the representative of a succession, by
proceeding to sell the property of the same, by a writ of fieri
facias, or otherwise.
"2. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in assuming 'authority to inquire into the validity of a judgment or execution
from the said Circuit Court, or the manner in which said execution was proceeded on, the constitution and laws of the
United States guarantying and conferring on said Circuit Court
the power to take cognizance of such cases as that whereon

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

19

Collier v. Stanbrough.

execution issued (to wit, the case of the ' Farmers' Bank of
Virginia v.David Stanbrough, curator,' &c.), which necessarily
includes the power to execute judgments so rendered.
"3. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in sustaining the
law of that State which requires money demands against a succession to be prosecuted exclusively in the Probate Court, which
law, the plaintiff avers, contravenes the constitution and laws
of the United States; so far as it requires foreign creditors to
prosecute their demands as aforesaid in said State court only
is, therefore, so far null and void.
"4. The judgment aforesaid of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is, for other reasons, illegal and erroneous, and ought to be
reversed."
The cause was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Stockton 4 Steele and Mr. Henderson (in a printed
argument), upon the same side. No counsel appeared for the
defendant in error. The following 'points were made and argued by the counsel for the plaintiff in error.
1. The decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana denies
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the State of Louisiana the power to execute judgments rightfully rendered by
said Circuit Court against the representative of a succession, by
proceeding to sell the property of the same by a writ of fieri
facias, or otherwise.
2. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in deciding that
a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States must be
presented to the Probate Court of Louisiana for classification,
and that said judgment of the Circuit Court was a mere recognition that the deceased owed the plaintiff, on said judgment
the sum therein adjudged to him, and. thus forcing a foreign
creditor into a State tribunal to settle the question of the rank
which his claim shall hold.
3 The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in assuming authority to inquire into the validity of a judgment or execution
from the said Circuit Court, or the manner in which said execution was proceeded on, the constitution and laws of the
United States guarantying and tonferring on said Circuit Court
the power to take cognizance of such cases as that whereon
execution issued (to wit, the case of the "Farmers' Bank of
Yirginia v. David Stanbrough, curator," &c.), which necessarily
-includes the power to execute judgments so rendered.
4. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in sustaining the
law of that State which requires moniey demands against a
succession to be prosecuted exclusively in the Probate Court;
which law, the plaintiff avers, contravenes the constitution

20

SUPREME COURT.
Collieriv. StanbrQugh.

and laws of the United States; so far as it requires foreign
creditors to prosecute their demands as aforesaid in said State
court only is, therefore, so far null and void.
5. The judgment aforesaid of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is, for other rcasons, illegal and erroneous, and ought to
beABut
reversed.
as the Court avoided a decision upon these important
p'6ints, resting it upon one which was in some measure collateral; it is deemed proper to omit the arguments of counsel.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Lewis A. Collier filed his petition in the District Court held
for the Parish. of Madison, in the State of Louisiana, agaifnst
Josiah Stanbrough and others, alleging that the Farmers'
Bank of Virginia had recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District in that
State, against D avid Stanbrough, as curator of the succession
of Jesse Harper;-that an execution issued on the judgment, by
which the marshal seized a debt belonging to the succession,
du'from Dougal McCall, evidenced by three notes of hand,
and by a mortgage on land, securing the payment to be made
to David Stanbrough, the curator; that the debt, amounting to
11,433 dollars, was seized and sold by the marshal, and said
Collier became the purchaser, for the sum of 3,500 dollars, &c.
It is also alleged, that a fictitious indorsement had been made
on one of the notes by the curator to Josiah Stanbrough,
which the petition prays may be annulled, and that the petitioner may have the benefit of his purchase by judgment and
execution on the notes and mortgaged property.
The defendants answered, and insisted that the debt was
not legally seized or levied 'upon; and, secondly, that it was
not legally -appraised or advertised, as required by law.
The facis were agreed, and it was admitted that the notes.
in controversy were never appraised, and that the marshal sold
them to Collier at a cash sale on the first biddings.
In the District Court, the law was adjudged to be for the
defendants, and Collier's petition was dismissed; and from this
judgment he appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
nffirmed; and to reverse this latter
where the judgment was
judgment, the plaintiff prosecuted a writ- of error from this
court to bring up the record; and this he had a right to do,
as his claim of title was founded on "an authority exercised
'under the United States," which the judgment below drew in
question, and the decision was against its validity.
I The only question submitted -for our consideration is whether
the marshal's sale was void, ox .valid.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

21

Collier -. Stanbrough.

The Supreme Cdurt of Louisiana declared, in its opinion
found in the record, and preceding the judgment, "that a credito residing ii another State cannot issue an execution upon
the judgment which he has obtained in the federat court
against the executor or administrator of an estate, which is
admitted in the Court of Probates as insolvent, and take the
property out of the hands of such executor or administrator,
and leave nothing for the -other creditors," - adding, that, 'sit
was one'of the admitted facts that .Hirper's estate had been
insolvent *for several years before the seizure and sale were
made, they were consequently void.
But as this case has been argued here by counsel for the
plaintiff, Collier, only, no one appearing for the defendant in
error, we deem it proper to forbear touching the delicate question on which the Supreme Court of Louisiana founded its
judgment of affirmance. Its great importance in different
States, and the difficulties attending it on either hand, because of the conflicts it is likely to produce between the tribunals of the State and the federal courts, strongly impress
this court with the .propriety of leaving the question open and
Uninfluenced by the present opinion, as no necessity exists for
such a decision in this case. The judgment of the State
court pronounced the seizure and sale on the federal execution
void; this judgment we are called on to revise, and if we find
that it was proper, for the reasons given by the court below,
or on other grounds manifestly appearing of record, and equally
calling into exercise the jurisdiction of this court, it is our
duty to affirm it;. and we are of opinion that the judgment of
the State court was proper, on another ground.
In Louisiana, the debts due to an execution debtor may be
seized and sold on execution, like other movable property, and
equally with the immovable property; in respect to lands
seized on execution, it is necessary, before they are offered for
sale, that they should be appraised by persons appointed for
the purpose, and if, when offered at public sale, two -thirds of
the appraised value is not bid, the officer who is attempting
to sell shall not adjudicate the sale, but cease, and readvertise
the property, and again offer it at public outcry on a credit
of twelve months; and this mode of proceeding, having been
adopted by rule in the Circuit Court of the United States held
in Louisiana, governs the marshal of that court. Whether
movable property was entitled to the benefit of the. provision
seems not to have been definitively settled until 1845, in the
.case of Phelps v. Rightor and others (9 Robinson's Rep. 541),
when it was adjudged by the Supreme -Court of Louisiana,
that movable property (of the same description that is here in

22

SUPREME COURT.
Collier v. Stanbrotugh.

controversy) could not be legally sold -bya sheriff in virtue of
an execution, without having been first appraised at its cash
value, and that then the cash bid on the first offer must bie
,equal, at least, to two thirds of the appraised value; and for
want of such an appraisement and bid, the adjudication of a
cash sale on the first offer to sell was void, for want of power
in the officer. And it is proper to remark, that, in the case of
.Gantly v. Ewing (3 Howard, 707), this court declared a
similar principle to apply in a case arising under a law of Indiana, which provided that the fee simple of real estate should
not be sold, until the sheriff had, at the time and place of sale,
first offered the rents and profits of the land for a term-of seven
years at public 'outcry, and if no bid 'was had for the rents
and profits sufficient to satisfy-the execution, then the sheriff
should proceed to sell the fee. In that case the sheriff had
proceeded to sell the fee-simple estate without first offering the
rents and profits for the seven years' term, and this court held
*that the sale was void, for want of 'power in the sheriff to
make it before he coirplied with the previous step, forasmuch
as the power to sell the fee simple arose for want of a bid for
the term. In principle, that 'case ajid the one'under consideration cannot be distinguished. In each it was immaterial
whether the purchaser had or had not knowledge of the fact,
that the officer had not taken the first step, as on that step the
power to sell first arose. In this case, no appraisement was
had, and the debt on the first bidding was struck off to Collier,
for less than one third of the amount called for by the three
notes'and the mortgage to secure them; and these facts being
admitted' on the record, it follows that the sale was void, and
that the judlgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana must be

affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the'3udgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

