.JANUARkY 'fTRM, 1848.

-201

Forgay .et ,al. y.°Conrad.

SA UL.
*

L. FoRGAY AND ELIZA AN

WELLS,
aurcr

APPELLANtTS,'O. Fwtncis
Oy THorMiAS BANiKs.

FoGAtTY,

B. CoNR&i,

WiFz or E. W."

AssiGEix

Rwi

A decree of the court below, that certain deeds should, be set'aside as -fraudulent
and void; that certain lands and slaves should be delivered up to the complainant; that one of the defendants should pay a certain sum of money to the complainant; that the complainant should have execution for these several matters;
that the master should take an account of the profits of the lands and slaves, and
also an acdount of certain money and notes, and then said decree concluding as
follows, viz. "and so much of the.said bill as contains or relates to matters hereby referred to the master for a report is retained for further decree in the premises, and so much of the said bill as is not now, nor has been heretofore, adjudged
and decreed upon, and which is not above retained for the purposes aforesaid, be
dismissed without prejudice, and that the said defendants do pay the costs"-Was
a final decree within the meaning of the acts of Congress, and an appea frora it
will lie to this court.
But a decree that money shall be paid into court, or that property shall be delivm-ra
to a receiver, or that property held in trust shall be delivered to a new trustee
appointed by the court, is interlocutor only, and intended to preserve -the subject-matter in dispute from waste or dilapiation, and to keep it within the control of the court until the rights of the parties concerned can be finally adjudicated. From such a decree ho appeal lies.
m
o
•The attention of the Circuit-Courts is called to the propriety iw erely-ann uncing
their opinion in an interlocutory order, and withholding a decree setting. aside ti",tles anda conveyances until the case is ready for a final decree.
The difference between the English and American practice upon this subject exlaine d.
are
the defendants claimed separate 'pieces of property, conveyed at different
times by separate conveyances, and the decree aganst them was several, it was
not necessary for all to join in an appeal.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit 'Court of the Un.ited
States for the District of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Sergeant moved to dismiss the appeal, because the decree of the, court below, wasnot final, and because the appeal
was not regularly brought up. On the second point, he said
that there were several defendants, one only of whom had appealed. ]$ut all the parties must join. 7 Peters, 399. He referred the court, however, upon this point, to Todd v. -Daniel,
.16 Peters, 521. A case must not come up in fragments. 3 Peters, 307; 3 Dali. 188.
To show that the decree was not final, he referred to The
Palmyra, 10 Wheat. 502 ; Chace v. Vasquez, 11 Wheat. 429
Brown v. Swann, 9 Peters, I; Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch,.
51; Rutherford v. Fisher, 4 Dall. 22; Lea v. Kelly, 1 Peters,
213 i Young v. Smith, 12 Peters, 287.
Mr. May, contra.
Against the motion to dismiss, it is submitfed,-.
1st. Thire are proper parties to this appeal.
The appellants have separate and distinct interests, and the

2W -

a.UPRE'ME COURT,
Forgay et al.

v.

ConrAd

decree is several. Todd v. Daniei 16 Peters, 523; McDonough
v. Dannery, a Dallas, 188, .193, 198.
On order of cburt. . The petition for an appeal by appellants
alone is found in the-record) p. 198. This was notice to the
other defendants below of the appeal.
2d The-decree is final.
It decides, the title of all the property in dispute, decrees
that it be delivered up to the complainant, and that execution
issue, &c. Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dallas, 404 The whole law
of the case, so far as the appellants are concerned, is settled by
the decree; nothing is left to be done but the ministerial duty'
of stating an account, which in this case is in the nature of an
execuition to carry out the decree; the principles of. the account are,prescribed.

It is like the case of Ray v. Law, 3

Cxanch, 179 (explained in 10 Wheaton, 503). Whiting v. Bank
of the United States, 13 Peters, 15.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
4 motion has been made to dismiss this appeal, upon the
ground, that -the.decree in the Circuit Court is not a final decree, within the meaning of the acts of Congress of 1789 and
1803.
Thfe bill was filed by th6 appelles, as the assignee in bankruptcy of a certain Thomas Banks, inthe Circuit'Court of the
United -States for the District of Louisiana, against the appellants, and Banks the bankrupt, and three other defcndan%,
The object of the bill was to set aside sundry deeds made by
Banks for lands and slaves, which the complainant charged to
bo~fraudulent, and for an account of.the rents and profits of the
property so conveyed; and also for an aecount of sundry sums
of money which he alleged had been received by one or more
of the defendants, as specifically -charged in the bill, 'which
belonged to the bankrupt's estate at the time of 'his bankruptcy.
The case was proceeded in until it came on for hearing,
When the court passed a decree declaring sundry deeds thereif.
tationed to be fraudulent and void, and directing the lands
and slaves therein mentioned to be delivered up to the- complainant, and also directing one of the, defendants nathed in the
deree to pay him eleven thousand d llars, received fro'm the
bankrupt in fraud of his creditors, and ".that the complainant
do have execution for the several matters aforesaid, in cbnformlity with law and the practice prescribed by the rules of the
Supreme Court of.the United States." The decree then directs
that the mascer take an account of the profits of the lands and
slawes ;ordered to be delivered up, from the time of th iling

JANUARY TERM, .1848.

2K

Forgay et al. v. Conrad.

of .the bill until -the property Vas delivered) or to the date of
the master's report, and also -anaccount of the money and notes
received by one of the defendants (who has not appealed) in
fraud of the creditors of the bankrupt, and concludes in the
following words: - 11And so muchof the said bill as contains
or relates to matters hereby referred to the master for a report
is retained for further- decree in the premises; and -so much of
the said bill as is not now, nor has been heretofore, adjudged
and decreed upon, and whish is not above retained for the purposes. aforesaid, be dismissed without prejudice, and that the
said defendants do pay the costs."
* Am6ng the deeds set aside as fraudulent is one from the
bankxruit to Ann Fogarty, otherwise called Ani Wells, for two
lots in the city of New Orleans and sundry slaves which she
afterwards' conveyed to-Forgay, the other appellant. -Both of
these deeds are declared null and void, and. the-lots, with the
improvements thereon, and the negroes, directed to be delivered
to the complainant for the benefit of the bankrupt's creditors.
This part of the decree is one of the matters of which the
complainant was to have execution. But the account of the
rents and profits of this property is, like other similar accounts,
,referred to the master, and reserved for further decree.
The appeal is taken by Samuel L. Porgay and Ann Fogarty,
otherwise called. Ann Wells; and they-alone are interested in
that portion of-the decree last above mentioned. The bankrupt. and. the three other, defendants have not appealed. These
three defendants claimed other property, -which had been con
veyed to them at different times and by -separate conveyances,
hs mentioned in the proceedings. And it "vasnot, therefore,
necessary that they should join in this appeaL Todd v. Danlel, 16 Peters, 523.
The question upon -the motion to dismiss is whether this is
*&fnal'decree, within the nieaning of the acts of -Coagross.
Undoubtedly, it .inot final, in 'the' strict, teebnical sense 4f
that term. 'But this court has !not heretofore understood th.
-words "find -decrees" in this strict -and technical sense, but
has. given to them a more liberal, and, -esve think, a -mom
reasonable construction, and one -more consonant to The inteh.
'tion of the l6gislature.
In the case of Whiting v. The Bank of the "United States,
13. Peters, 15, it was held -that a-tecree of Ioreclosure and
ale of mortgaged premises, was-a 'final decree, and the defendant entitled to his appeal without -waiting for the return
'and confrmation of the-ale-by a decretal ordet. And this decision is placed by the -court upon -the ground, that the decree
of foreclosure and sate was final upon the merits, and the ul-

204

SUPREME COURT.
Forgay et al. v. Conrad.

terior proceedings but a-mode of executing the original decree.
The same rule of construction was acted on in- the case of
Mihaud and others-.v. Girod and others, 4 Howaid, 500.
The case before us.is a stronger one for. an appeal than the
case last Aientioned, For here the decree not only decides the
title-to the property in dispute, and annuls the deeds under
which the defendants claim, but also directs the property in
dispute to be delivered to the complainant, and awards execu;tion. And according to the last paragraph. in the -decree, tflebill is retained merely for the.jurpose of adjusting the accounts
referred to the master. In all other respects, the whole of the
matters brought into controversy by the bill are finally disposed of as to all of the defendants, and the bill as to them-is
no longer pending before the court, and the decree which it
passed could not have been alterwards reconsidered or modiflied in relation to the matters decided, except upon a petitio'n
for a rehearing, within the time prescribed by the rules of this
court regulating proceedings in equity in the Circuit Courts:
If these appellants, therefore, -must wait until the accounts are
reported by lhe master and confirmed by the court, they will
be subjected to irreparable injury. For the lands and slaves
which- they claim will be. taken out of their possession and
sold, and the proceeds distributed among the creditors of the
bankrupt, before they can have, an opportun-ity of being hoard
in thiMs court in defence of their rights. We think, upon sound
principles of construction, as well as upon the authority of the
cases referred to, that such is not- the meaning of .the.
acts of
Congress. And when the decree decides the right to the
property in contest, and 'directs it to be delivered up by the,
defendant to the complainant, or directs it to be sold, or di'
rects the defendant to pay a certain sum of money to the complainant, and the complainant is entitled to have such decreecarried immediately into execution, the decree must be regardad as a final one to that extent, and authorizes an appeal to
this court, although so much of the bill is retained-in the Cir,efiit Court as is necessary for the purpose of adjusting by a
further decree the accounts between the parties pursuant to
the decree passed.
This rule, of course, does not extend to cases where money
is directed to be paid into court, or property to be delivered to
a receiver, or property held in trust to be delivered to a new
trustee appointed by the court, or to cases of a like description.
Orders of that kind are frequently and necessarily made in the
progress of a cause. But they are interlocutory only and intended to preserve the subject-matter in dispute from waste
-Or dilapidation, and to keep it :within the control of the court

-

JANX

-AA2VY
TBRM, 1848.

2M,

Forgay et al. v..Conrad.

"untilthe rights of the parties concernedcan be adjudicated
by a final decree. ' The case before us, however, cdmes-Within
the.rule above stated- and the motion: to dismiss is therefdre

overruled.' We, however, feel it our duty to say, that we Cannot approve of the manner in which -this case has been disposed of by the decree. In limiting the: right of appeal to
final decrees, it was obviously the oblqet of"the law to save.
the unnecessary expense and delay of repeated appeals' in tbe
same suit; and to have the whole case and every matter in.
controversy in it decided in a single appeal.
In this respect the practice.. of the . United States chancery
courts differs from the English practice. For appeals to the
House of 'Lords may be taken, from. an interlocutory' oyder of
the chancellor, which decides 'a right of property in dispute ;.
and therefore there is no irreparable injury -to the party by
ordering his dee& to be cancelled,-or the 'ro erty he holds to
be delivered up, because he may immediately appeal- and -the
execution of the order is suspended until the. decision, of the
appellate court. But the case is otherwise in the courts of
the United States, where the right to appeal is by law lifnited
io, final decrees. And if, by an interlocutory order or decre.e,
he is required to deliver up property which he claims, or to
pay money which ha denies to be due, and the order imiediately carried.into bxecution by the Circuit Court, hii.riglit-..fappeal is of viery:little, value to him, -and he may be rineabefore he is. permitted .to avail himself of the right. It is exceedingiy irmportant,.-therefore, that the Circuit Courts -ef the
United "States, in framing their interlbeutory orders, aid in
*eartying them into execution, should keep in view the difference between the right of appe4l as piactised in the English
chancery jurisdidtion- and as restricted by the act of Congress,
and abstain from changing unnecessarily the possession of
property, or compelling-the payment of money -by an. interlocutory order.
Cases, no doubt, sometimes arise; where the purposes of justice requ4re that the -property in. controversy should be placed"
in- the hands of a receiver, or a trustee be changed, or ,money
be paid into court. But.orders of this description stand upon
very different principles from.the interlocutory orders 'of which
we are speaking.
In the case before us, for example, it would certainly have
been proper, and. entirely consistent with chancery practice, for
the Circuit Court to have announced in an interlocutory'order
or decree. the opinion .it had formed as to ,the rights: bf the
parties, and'the decree it would" finally pronounce %upnthe
tles and conveyances hi contest. But there cduld be no ne-

VOL. VI.

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Perkins r. Fourniquet et al.

cessity for passing immediately ,a final decree annulling the
conveyances, and ordering the pfbpexty to be delivered to the
assignee of the bankrupt. The dbcree upon these matters
'might and. ught to have awaited the-mastero's repot; and
when the.accounts.were before the court, then every matter in
dispute might have been adjudicated in one final decree; and
.ifeither party thought himself aggrieved, the whole matter
would be brought here and decided i. 'one appeal, and the ob,
ject agd polidy of tlhp acts of Congress upon this subject carried into effect.
These remarks ae not made for the purpose of censuring
the learned judge by whom this decree was pronounced ;, but
in order to call the attention of the Cireuit Courts-to an incon.
renient practice, -into- which some of them have sometimes
fallen, and which is regarded by this court as altogether inqonsistent with the object and policy of the acts of Congress'
in relation to appeals, and at the same time needlesly burdensome and expensiive to the parties concerned, and eakalat4
by successive appeals, to produce great and unreasenable delays
insuitWO i c"hancery. For it may well happen; that, when the
accounts are taken, rnd reported by the master, this case may
again come here upon exceptions to his report, allowed.or disallowed by the Circuit Court, and thus- two appeals made necessary, when the matters in dispute could more conveniently
,and speedily, and with-less expense, have -been decided in one.
Order.
On consideration of the motion filed by Mr. Sergeant, of
counsel for the appellee, to dismiss this appeal, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against as in sup-.
port of the said motion, it is now here *ordered by this court,
that the said motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

'JOHN' PEBKINS,

APPRELLANi, v. EDiWAnD F. FOERnIQUEI AND
AND MARIN W. EWING AND WIFE.

WIFE,

"Where the Circuit Court d~creed that'.the complainants were entitled to two
sevenths of certain property, and referred the matter to a master in chancery
,to fake ad report an account of it, and then 'reserved all other matters in controversy between the parties until *thecoming in of the master's report, this was
:]ot such a final decree as can be appealed from to this court.

Tms.was an ,appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for thq District of Louisiana, the circumstances of which
are atatWti iii the opinion of the' court.

