JANUARY TERM, 1848.

11

United States -. Daniel et al

this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law and justice, and
in-conformity to the opinion: of this court.

'rH

UNITED STATES, ?LAINTIPFS, v. 3JYmxs A"t JoH G. DANIEL,
ErscUTos "op BEvERLY DANIEL, LATE U. S. MATLSA.

An "action on the ease will not lie against the executors of a: deceased marshal,
where executions had been placed in th . hands 6f the marshal, and false-returns
made on some of them, and imperfect and insufficient entries on others.
The rule respecting abatement is this :.-If the person charged has received no benefit to himself at the expense of the sufferer, the cause of action does not survive. But where, by means of the offence, roperty is acquired which benefits
the property survives against the
the testator, there an action for the value
executor
As to the form of action, none will lie, at common law, against an executor, where
the general issue plea-is "not guilty."
THIS case came up from 'the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of North Carolina,. on a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
In August, 1841, the United States brought-an action of
trespass on tile case .againsi the defendants, as executors of
Bqverly Daniel, late fnarshal, and at May term, 1843, a verdict
was found for the plaintiffs, subject to the opinion of the court
upon the following, case stated.
Beverly Daniel beingin his lifetime marshal of the District
of North Carolina, certain executions, .at the instance of the
United States, from the District Court of Newbern, came
to the hands of one of therdeputies of the said marshal, Who,
in the name and on behalf of his principal , made false returns
upon some of them, and imperfect and insqfflcient entries on
others. After the death of Daniel, this action on the case was
brought against the defendants, his executors, to recover damages for the said false and insufficient returns; and it is contended, on the part of the defendants, that the action will not
lie, .and is not ustainable against them as executors, and it is
agreed by the parties that judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintiffs upon the said verdict, if the court shall be of opinion
that such action is sustainable; otherwise, the said verdict to
be set aside, and the said action t6 be discontinued.
The judges being divided in opinion, the cause came up to
this court, upon a certificate of such division.
The cause was argued by Mr. Clifford (Attorney-General),
on the part of the United States, and submitted on the record.
by Mr. Badger, on the part of the defendants.

12

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Daniel et a].

Mr. Clifford made two points:,,-1st. That the cause *ofaction suitvives against the executors.
2d. That an action on the case is an appropriate remedy under the laws of North Carolina, which furnish the rule of decision on this'point.
1st. The rule respecting abatement, is now nearly confined
to that laid down by Buller, Viz. that where property is concemedi the action does not abate by the death of the party
Cowper, 371.
The aistinction between the cause and the form of action
must be borne in mind. T.he difficulty in this case must have
arisen with regard to the form. The record is very imperfect,
and does not show whether the rights of property were involved or not. But they were so in fact, and I will assume it
to be so. The testator was certainly liable in his lifetime,
and I only contend that the cause of action survives where the
estate of the testator lias been benefited and is therefore responsible. It must have been understood in this case that thd
deputy-marshal had made the m6ney. The bond of the marshal covers the acts of his deputies under the Judiciary.Act,
and therefore the law presumes the money to be in the hands
of the principal. It makes no difference whether the estate of
the marshal has.been benefited in point of fact or in presumption of law. It is equally responsible in both. He has his
remedy against the deputy, and the law presumes that he will
right himself. I assume, in this case, that the money had
been made. An action for'"money had and received" has
been sustained. 3 Campbell, 347.
But an action fdr an escape does not survive, because the estate has not been benefited. To support these principles,
-13 Mass. 454; 9 Wendell, 29; 1 Pick. 71; 4 Halsted,- 173;
Com. Dig. tit. Administratqr,B. 15.
The laws of North Carolina furnish the rule of decision
whether case will lie (2 How. 29), and these laws sustain
the action. 1 Rev. Stat. N. C. 57. This regnacts the law of
of 1799. It may be said that the provision in this, which says
suits shall not abate, was intended only to apply to suits then
brought. But there is no good reason for the exclusion of future suits. 3 Hawksj 563; N. C. Repository, 529, 205, 226;
2 Haywood, 182; 1 Rev. Stat. N. C. page 443, sec. 1, 2, 3.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here from 'the District of North Carolina,..on a certificate of a division of opinion by the -judges,
undei the act of Congress.
A jury, having been impanelled to try the issues. joined,

JANUARY TEAM, 1848.

13

United States v. Daniel et al.

.found for the plaintiffs, and assessed their damages at seven
hundred seventy-&ve dollars and eighty cents. This verdict
was taken by consent of parties, subject to the opinion of the
court on the following case.
"Beverly Daniel, being in his lifetime marshal of the District of North Carolina, certain executions, at the instance of
the Udiited States, from the District Court of Newbern, came to
the hands of one of the deputies of the said marshal, who, in
the name and on behalf of his principal, made false returns
upon some of them, and imperfect and insufficient entries on
others. After the death of'Daniel. this action on the case was
brought against the defendants, his executors, to recover damages for the said false and insufficient returns; and it is contended that the action will not lie, and is not sustainable
against them as executors, and it is agreed by the parties that
judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiffs upon the said
verdict, if the iourt shall be of the opinion that such action
is sustainable; otherwise, the said verdict to be set aside, and
the action-to be discontinued." And on a motion being made
for judgment, the opinions of the judges were opposed on the
point reserved.
No action will lie against an executor for a personal wrong
by the testator. Com. Dig. Administrator,B. Nor does it lie
against the executor of a jailer for an- escape. Ibid. Waste
does not lie against an executor or administrator; nor an action upon a penal statute. So trover is said not to lie against
an executor upon a trover and conversion by his testator,
though a different form of action will lie for the same cause.
Cowper, 371.
If the person charged has secured no benefit to himself at
the expense of the sufferer, the cause of action is said not to
survive; but where, by means of the offence, property is acquired which benefits the testator, there an action for the
value of *theproperty shall survive against the executor. And
it is laid down in Cowper,- 376, with respect, to the form, that
no action survives where the plea of the defendant must be
"not guilty," but where the case survives, some other form
must be pursued.
.If the deputy-marshal, in the misfeasance complained of, received money or property, the marshal being responsible for
such acts, the cause of action survived against his executors.
But this is not the case made in the present action. It is an
action on the case requiring the gengral issue of "not guilty."
If a liability were shown against the deceased marshal, it could
not be enforced against .his executors iir this form. No action,
where the plea must be that the testator was not guilty can
VOL. V.
2.

SUPREME COURT.

14

Collier v. Stanbrough.

lie, at common law, against the executor. Upon the face of
the record, the action arises ex delicto ; and all private criminal
injuries or wrongs, as well as all public crimes, are buried with
the offender. 3 Bar. Abr. 539.
The provision in the 10th section of the North Carolina statute, "to prevent the abatement of suits in certain cases,"which declares that an action of trespass on the case, &c., shall
not abate by the death of either party,-does not affect the
above question.
This court think that the action, in the form prosecuted, is
not maintainable; and they direct the fact to be so certified to
the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of North .Carolina, and on the point or question on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in suc*h cases made and provided, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that the action in the form prosecuted
will not lie. It is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that it be so-certified to the said Circuit Court.

• LEwis

A.

COLLIER,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, v. JosIAi STANBROUGH.

By the laws of Louisiana, debts which are due to. a defendant, against whom an
execution has issued, may be seized and sold. But they must first be appraised
at their cash value, and if two thirds of such appraised value is not bid, the sheriff must adjourn the sale and again advertlise the property.
.This mode of proceeding was adopted by a rule of the Ciicuit Court of the United
States, and was therefore obligatory upon the marshal.
Where the marshal made a sale of some promissory notes secured by mortgage,

without an appraisement, and sold them fofless than one third of their amount,
the sale was void.

THIs case was brought up, by a writ of error, issued under
the 20th section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court
for the Western District of Louisiana.
In 1838, David Stanbrough was appointed, by the local authority in Louisiana, curator of the estate of one Harper, deceased.
In 1840, he was sued as curator, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by the
Farmers' Bank of Virginia. Judgment was rendered against
him, which became final on default.

