JANUARY TERM, 1848.

81

Villabolos et ai.v. United States.

by remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded with in
conformity to the opinion of this court, and, that each party pay
his own costs in this coutt.

Jos-

ARGOTE VALABOLOS, AnIE ROSE, AND FRAN OIS FELIX, MARQUIS DE FOUGEREs, APPrELLANTS,.V. Tas UNITED STATES.

By the act of May 23d, 1828 (4 Statutes at Large, 284), relating to private land
claims in Florida, ajpeals from th6Superior Coufrt of the Territory of Florida are
governed by the laws of 1789 and 1803.

Therefore, where an appeal was not made in open court, and at the term at which
the final decree was passed, a citation was necessary, which must be signed by a
juge, and not by the clerk. See United States in Hodge, 3 How. 534.
The act of 1828, above mentioned, allowed appeals to be prosecuted within four
months, and placeAl them, in other respects, upon the same footing with writs of
error under the act of 1803. Writs. of error and citations are returnable to the
term of the appellate court next following; and unless the writ and citation are
both served before the term, the case is not removed to the appellate court.
Consequeiitly, where there was only an entry of an appeal in the clerk's office, and
no citation served within four months, the appeal was not regularly brought up,
and must be-dismissed on motion.

THIS was an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.

'The ca]se being dismissed. for want of jurisdiction, it is unnecessaryto do more than refer to the circumstances, which axe
fully stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Mason;then Attorney-General, had moved at a preceding term to dismiss this case, upon the ground of its being irregularly brought up.
It was now argued by Mr. Clifford, Attorney-General, for
the motion,*and lMir. Yulee, against it.
Mr. Olifford, for the motion.
The points relied on by the United States for dismissal of
the appeal in this case ae 1st. That there is no citation issued according to law ; the
citation in the record being signed by the clerk of the Superior
Court of East Florida instead of the judge, in pursuance of the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act.
2d.. That there is-no allowance of -the appeal.
1st. The counsel of the appellants contends, that the citation is signed according to the practice of the Territorial courts
of Florida, which must govern this question. It is; however,
submitted, that the practice of these courts does not afford ihe
nile to goern appeals in land cases under the special jurisdiction, with respect to them, conferred on the judge of the Siiperior Court of East Florida.

82

SUPREME COURT.
Villabolos et al. v. United States.

A slight examination of ihe acts of Congress on the subject
will satisfactorily demonstrate this proposition.
By the sixth section of the act of the 23d May, 1828 (4 Statutes at Large, 284), it is provided, that certain claims to- land
within the .Territory of Florida shall be received and adjudicated by the judge of the Superior Court of the district within
which the land lies, upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules, regulations,conditionM-, restrictions,and
limitationsprescribed to the districtjudge and claimants in the
State of Missouri, by act of Congress, ale)roved 26th May,
1824, entitled "An act enabling the claimants to lands within
the limits of the State of Missouri, and Territory of Arkansas,
to institute proceedings. to try the validity of their clafins."
And by the seventh section it is enacted, that it shall be lawful for the claiimants to land as aforesaid to take an appeal, as
directed in the act aforesaid,from the decision of the judge of
the district to the Supreme Court of the United States, within
four months after the -decision shall be pronounced.
And by the twelfth section it is enacted, that the petitions
were to be filed within one year from the passage of the act;
and if, on account of the neglect or delay of the claimant,
they should not be prosecuted to a final decision within two
years, they were for ever barred both at law and in equity.
A subsequent act was passed on the 26th May, 1830 (4 Statutes at Large, 406), which, by its fourth section, in effect revived the act of 1828,
It was, however, under the act of 1828 that the petition in
this case was filed; and it is clear, beyond all controversy,
that the forms of proceeding-were to be the same as those prescribed to the district judge and claimants in the State of Missouri, by the act of 1824, hereinafter mentioned.
The act of 1824 (4 Statutes at Large, 52), the rules of proceeding under which were made the rules of proceeding in the
Florida cases, by its first section enacts, that it should be lawful for any person claiming lands in the State of Missouri, by
virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or
order of shrvey, "to present a petition to the District Court
of Missouri," setting forth their claims. The second section
provides, that the proceedings are to be conducted according to
the rules of a.court of equity, and that "in all cases the party
against whom the judgment or decree of the said District
Court may be finally given shall be entitled to an appeal within
one year from the time of its rendition to the Supreme Court
of the United States, the decision of which court shall be final
and conclusive between the parties; and should no appeal be

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

83

Villabolos et al.,. United States.

At the time this act passed, the State of Missouri was not
embraced within any circuit; but the federal jurisdiction was
exercised by the district judge, under the act of the 16th
March, 1822 (3 Statutes at Large, 653), entitled "An act to
provide for the due execution of the laws of the United States
within the State of Missouri, and for the establishment of a
District Court therein." By the second section, the State of
Missouri was created d district, with one judge, to be called
the district judge, who should "in all things have and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers which were by law given to.the judge of the Kentucky district" under the Judiciary
Act and the act of the 2d March, 1793, being the act in addition ,tothe Judiciary Act.
The tenth section"of the Judiciary Act (1 Statutes at Large,
77) prescribes the mode in which appeals were to be taken
from the District Court of Kentucky to the Supreme Court, as
follows: " "And'writs of error and appeals shall lie from decisions therein to the Supreme Court, in the same causes as
from a Circuit Court to the Supreme Court, and under the
same regulations."
It is clear, therefore, that citations, in -the case of appeals
from the District Court of Kentucky, were subject to the rules
prescribed by the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act;
that the rules applicable to Kentucky were adopted for Missouri; and that the judge of the Superior Court of Florida
was to adjudge these land cases according to the forms; rules,
regulations, conditions, restrictions, and limitations prescribed
to the district judge and claimants in Missouri. The legislation of Congress on the subject is plain and distinct, as it
seems to me, and the local practice of Florida has nothing, to
do with the question, and furnishes no guide whatever to regulate the proceedings.
It therefore appears to me that the case of the United States
v. Hodge, 3 Howard, 534, is directly in.point.
2d. No appeal was taken in open court at the term when the
decree was made rejecting the claim, or at. any other time.
The claim was rejected 10th September, 1838. On the 25th
November following, the solicitor of the appellants filed in the
clerk's office a notice of appeal, but no allowance thereof was
ever made.
It is insisted that a notice thus filed in the clerk's office, unaccompanied by any other act of the party, and without the
knowledge either of the opposing party or of the couL t, and
without any approval by the judge before -whom the cause was
tried, cannot be regarded as an appeal effectually taken. It

84

-

SUPREME COURT.
Villabolos at al.v. United States.

carry up the case for revision. It is not denied that the right
of appeal, when claimed in open court during the term when
the cause was tried, is an absolute right, and one which the
court has' no power to deny; but when subsequently claimed
in vacation, it must be approved 'or allowed by the court, otherwise it might be resorted to for purposes merely wanton, or
for delay, and would operate as a surprise upon the opposite
party. ' Yeaton v. Lenox, 7 Peters, 220.
The appeal, under the circumstances of this case; was not
prosecuted in due time, but must be considered as having been
abandoned before the 'citation was issued. It is reasonable to conclude, after a delay of more than five
years, that the party had waived any right which he acquired
by filing the notice of appeal in the office of the clerk of the
court. Whatever may be* the effect of a notice thus filed, it
cannot remain available indefinitely. The appeal must be
claimed and allowed within the time prescribed by law. The
mere filing of the notice within the time allowed to take the
appeal is insufficient to secure the right, unless the appeal be
perfected within a reasonable time. The delay of more than
five years raises the presumption that the right to appeal had
been abandoned, or waived, before the citation was issued, or
that the notice was not filed in good faith.
If the party may assert the right in this case, after more
than five years have elapsed since the notice was filed, when
would the right to prosecute the appeal cease ? The practice,
if sustained, would introduce great, looseness into legal proceedings, and 'create confusion and uncertainty in the rights of
property over which such a, notice of appeal was permitted to
hang. It is often the main purpose of an appeal to secure a
new trial, which it is always desirable to have during the lifetime of the witnesses-who testified in the court below. If this
practice be sustained, a party might purposely defer his appeal,
and wait the events which would deprive'his adversary of the
testimony upon which he had relied in the.former trial.
There must be some limit, to the period within which the
appeal may be prosecuted. It will- be found, upon examination, that, in the Florida cases heretofore brought up for revision, the 'appeal in'every instance was in fact prayed for in
open court, 'and in presence of the opposing party. In such
cases no citation 'is necessary, and it was wholly immaterial
whether the citation was signed according to law, or issued by
the clerk. Moreover, in those cases, the opposing counsel having entered their appearance, the defect was cured. It is clear,
to my .mind, that no aid can- be drawn from those precedents
to sustain the.present proceedings. ' It appears to be well set-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

85

Villabolos et al.v. United States.

tled, that no citation is necessary when the appeal is prayed for
and allowed in open court. The San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 142;
Reily v. Lamar, 2 Cranch, 349; Uinited States v. Hooe, 3

Cranch, 79.
It was not my intention to waive any of the rights of the
United States in this case, and I have so apprised the counsel,
since the printed argument of the appellants was filed. What
I intended to say in the argument, I have now to repeat, and
it is, that when the appeal is regularly allowed by the presiding judge within the period prescribed by law, a legal citation
may issue and be served after that time, provided it be at least
thirty days before the return-day of the writ of error.
I have also torfer..to Parish v. Ellis, 16 Peters, 451.
Mr. Yulee, against the motion to dismiss.
The objections in this case are very technical.
1. That the citatiofi does not conform to the 22d section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, upon the force of which the case
of United States v.Hodge, 3 Howard, 534, was decided.
The act cited has no application to the present case, because
it possessed no obligation upon the court from which the record:
comes.
The appeal comes neither from a District nor from a Circuit
Court of the United States, to which, alone, the 22d section
applies.
The Superior Court of Florida was a legislative, not a constitutional, court. It composed no part of the federal judicature,
but was simply a Territorial court, for territorial purposes. Its
powers were defined by special enactment of Congress, and"
within the scope of those powers the Territorial legislature
regulated its practice.
No appeal was authorized from the Superior Court of Florida
to the Supreme Court of the United States. "From the Court
of Appeals of the Territory: only could appeals be made to the
Supreme Court. See the organization of the judicial system
of Florida, Act of 26th May, 1824, 4 Statutes at Large, 45.
No general laws of the United States had force within the
Territorial limits, unless expressly extended to that Territory
by Congress.
The laws of the United States in force in Florida-will be
found specified in 3 Statutes at Large, 657.
The 22d section of the act cited was neve rconsidered as of
force in Florida, because not applicable to our judicial system,
especially so far as the Superior Court was concerned:
The process acts of the United States were,. by some,
thought to extend there; but this was not a settled, opinion.
8
VOL. vI.

86

SUPREME COURT.
Villabolos et al. v. United States.

The citation, however, in this case, -conforms to the process
act.
The process of the Superior Courts of Florida was regulated
by the legislature of that Territory. See Act of 1832, Dnval's
Compilation of the Laws of Florida, 91.
The citation in this case conforms to that prescription, and
was the same which was used in appeals fror- the Superior
Court to the Court of Appeals (the highest tribunal) in Florida.
The act of 1828, conferring upon the Superior Courts special
jurisdiction of land claims, and authorizing appeals, directs-no
form or style of process. The court very naturally and correctly adopted the form prescribed by the legislature of Florida,
and by the process act of the United States, and which was
used in cases of appeals to the highest Territorial tribunal.
The propriety of this course stands conceded by the United
S9tates, from which party an objection comes now, at this late
stage, with very ill grace.
It happens that the first appeal taken in these Florida land
causes was by the United States, and was brought up upon a
citation issued at the instance of the United States, in the pre-.
cise form used. in this er se. And that the same form has been
invariably used in all the Florida land causes, from the connrWncement to the present time. A large majority of these
appeals were at the instance of the United States. See the
Records.
The court would now be required to reject that which had
been sanctioned by its 'own practice, and by the assent and
direct adoption of the United States, throughout the course of
these cases, commencing, I, believe, in 1832. This certainly
would be pressing a merely formal objection very far.
But, if I am not mistaken, the first motion filed in this cause
did not object to the form of the citation. Not having access
to the motion I cannot be certain; but, if I am correct in my
impression, the objection to the citation, as well as the objection presented in the second point, may be regarded as having
been waived. See McDonogh v. Millaudon, 3 Howard, 693.
Although unnecessary to this case, it may be questioned
whether the process act did not virtually repeal the form and
style prescribed in the 22d section of the act of 1789 for citations; that is to say, if a citation* may be regarded as being a
"writ" or "process" within the meaning of the act of 1792,
as I think it may be.
2. The next objection is, that the appeal was never granted
by the court.
Whether it was or not I am not prepared to'say., and if the
court consider the allowance of-the appeal material,. I will ask

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

87

Villabolos et al. v. United States.

a certiorari, presuming that all was done in the court below
which was necessary to justify citation, though omitted from
the transcript of the record forwarded here.
But an allowance of the appeal by the court was totally unnecessary.
The appeal was a right of the party. The court had no
power to refuse, and being without any judicial discretion in
the matter, there was neither occasion nor propriety in any
application to it to grant.
The statute confers upon the party the peremptory right of
appeal.
See act of 1828, sec. 7, Statutes at Large, vol. 4, page 285;
and act of 1824, sec. 3, same volume of laws, page 53.
If a party chose to appeal, and the court refused to send up
the record, the Supreme Court would undoubtedly have allowed a mandamus to coerce it.
All that is requisite in the case of an appeal is that enough
be done to remove the record. Enough was done for this purpose when the party signified his. adoption of the right of appeal
allowed by the statute. The statute had made the allowance;
an allowance by the court was supererogation.
That such was the impression upon all sides heretofore will
be seen by reference to the record in the very last Florida case
acted, upon in this court, to wit, the case df Darley's Heirs,
decided at the last term. It will be seen in 'that case, that,
although the appeal was taken in term time and in open court
by the United States district attorney, no application was made
to the court for zt1 allowance of .the appeal, and no allowance
was granted.
In this case, the appeal was taken in vacation, and the mode
-pursued was the only one practicable.
In fact, the Tequirement of an allowance by the court would
defeat the purpose of the law. The party was allowed four
months- to decide his mind as to an appeal. The judge was
almost continually in motion over a very extensive circuit, and
in attendance upon the Court of Appeals at Tallahassee. A
term for trial, of land causes occurred only once in- the year,
and the effect of a requirement such as proposed would have
been to send a party in chase of the judge all over -the Territory, and to abridge very materially the time intended to be
allowed for considering his intirest and deciding upon appeal.
3. That.the appeal was not prosecuted in due time.
This objection, I understand from the Attorney-General, has
been abandoned by him. It requires, therefore, no reply.
But to prevent any impression that the parties interested
were indifferent'as to their appeal, I will state, as the reason of

88

SUPREME COURT.
Villabolos et al. v. United States.

the delay in bringing the case up, that the proprietors of the
grant reside in a foreign country (France); that about the
date of the, appeal, the counsel and agent of the claimants,
stricken by the hand of God, had become imbecile in mind and
incapable of business; and that it was not until long afterwards
,the parties in France became sufficiently apprised of his condition to make other provision for their interests.
In reply to the Attorney-General, I have further to say,
1. It is conceded that the judge of the Superior Court was
required, as stated by the Attorney-General, to receive and adjudicate claims to land according to the rules, &c., prescribed
to the district judge of Missouri; but it does not by any means
result from this, that in citing au.appellee the clerk was to use
any other form of process than one appropriate to the court.
2. No such delay or injury, as suggested by the AttorneyGeneral, could result to the appellee from the mode of taking
an appeal adopted in this case. The party interested can
always, at the end of four months (the time allowed for
appeal), ascertain if an appeal has been made; and if it has,
the 30th rule of the Supreme Court will insure an early docketing and disposal. In this case, the laches of the United States
is without excuse ; while the delay on the part of the appellant
was the result of misfortune.
The case in 16 Peters was from the Court of Appeals, and
has no application.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
It appears that on the 18th of April, 1829, a petition was
filed by the appellants in the Superior Court, claiming title to
certain lands under a Spanish grant. The. district attorney
answered, denying the validity of the claim, and testimony was
taken on both sides, and the case proceeded to final hearing.
And on the.10th of September, 1838, the court decreed that
the claim was not valid, and that it be rejected.
No appeal was taken at the time, but afterwards, on the 25th
of November, in the same year, an appeal was filed in the
clerk's office by the solicitor for the appellants. No citation,
however, issued, nor was any further step taken in this appeal
until August 9, 1844, when a citation issued, signed by the
clerk of the Superior Court, which, on the 13th of the same
month was served on the district attorney. And under this
appeal and citation the record was filed by the appellants in
this court, on the 12th day of December, 1844.
A motion has been made on the part of the United States to
dismiss this case, - 1st, upon the ground that the citation is not

JANUABY TERM, 1848.

89

Villabolos et al. v. United States.

signed by the judge; and -2d, that the appeal was not taken
within the, time limited by law.
The proceedings in the Superior Court of Florida were had
under the act of Congress of May 23, 1828. It has been urged
in the argument for the appellant, that appeals to this cotirt in
such cases are not governed by the acts of 1789 and 1803, and
mpy be brought up by a citation signed by the clerk. And it
was suggested that such has been the usual mode of prosecuting
appels from the Superior Court of Florida, and sanctioned -by
the practice of t1lis court.
* With a view of ascertaining the practice upon this subject,
we have caused the records in former caseg to be examined;
but no case has been discovered in which the appeal was taken
in the clerk's office, and the citation signed by the clerk. So
far as the examination extended, all of the cases were .brought
here by appeals taken in open court. And if there are any
cases like the present in which this court has treated the appeal
as valid, they must have passed sub silentio and -without having
attracted, in this respect i the. attention of the court. It is true,
that; in all of the former cases from "the Superior Court of
Florida, the citation appeais to have been signed by the clerk.
But as they were taken in open court, no citation was necessary.under the acts of 1789 and. 1803. It was so held in the
case of Yeaton v. Lenox; 7 Peters, 220. And these appeals
-were therefore re~ilarlybefore the court, according to the lastmentioned acts of Congress, -the citations signed by the clerk
being altogether unnecessary and unimportant. The question
is, therefore, now for the first time presented, whether such a
citation is sufficient where the appeal is entered in the clerk's
office, and not taken in open court.
The laws of Congress upon this subject are, unfortunately,
a good deal complicated. But the view taken in the argument
of the Attorney-General'is undoubtedly the correct one. The
sixth section of the act of 1828 provides that the proceedings
in the Superior Court of Florida shall be according to the
forms" rules, regulations, conditions, restrictions, and limitations prescribed- to the district judge and claimants in the
State of. Missouri by the act of May 26, 1824 ; and, the seventh section .provides that the claimant may take an appeal as
directed in the act aforesaid to the Supreme Court within-fouir
months after the- decision shall- be pronounced. The District
Court of Missouri, to which- the above-mentioned act of 1824
refers, was established by the act of March 16, 1822, and the
second section of this act provides that it should in -all things
have and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers which were
by law given to the judge of the.Kentucky District under the

8*

90

SUPREME COURT.
Villabolos et al. v. United States.

act of March 2, 1793. And the tenth section of the last-mentioned act directs that writs of error and appeals shall lie from
the decisions of the District Court of. Kentucky to ,the Supreme Court in the same causes as from a Circuit Court, and
under the same regulations. Thus, in order to deterniine how
appeals must be prosecuted from the Superior Court of Florida,
under the act of 1828, we are in the first place referred to the
law in relation to the District Court in the State of Missouri,
and- that law refers us again to the act in relation to the District Court of Kentucky; and that law in express terms refers
,us to the laws regulating appeals from a Circuit Court of the
United States,- that is to say, to the acts of 1789 and 1803.
Appeals from the Superior Court of the Territory of Florida,
therefore, are governed by these acts; and consequently the
case of -The United States v. Hodge, 3 Howard, 534, is decisive against the present appeal. When the appeal is not made
in open court, fad at the term at-which the final decree is
passed, a 6itatioh is necessary; The San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 142;
and where necessary, the law requires it to- be signed by the
judge; and we have no power to receive an appeal in any other mode than that provided by law.
But if the citation had been properly signed, it is too late.
By the act of 1828, the claimant must appeal within four
months'; and the act of 1803 subjedts appeals to the rules and
regulations prescribed' by law in cases of writs of error. New
the writ of error.Is always returnable to the term of the appellate
court next following the date of the writ; and the citation required by the act of -1789 (which is a summons to the opposite
party to appear) must be returnable to the same term, and unless the writ and citation are both served before the term, the
case is not removed to, the appellate court, and the writ, if returned aftelrwards, will be quashed, Lloyd v. Alexander, 1
Cranch, -365; Bailiff v. Tipping, 2-Cranch, 406; Wood v.
Lide," 4 Cranch, 180 ; Pickett's heirs v. Legerwood, 7 Peters,
144 ; and Yeaton v. Lenox and others, .8 Peters, 123. It follows that, where a citation is required in a case of appeal, it
must, as in the writ of error, be issued and served on the opposite party before the term. of the appellate court next after the
appeal is entered, -Yea~tn v. Lenox, 7 Peters, 220. The entry
of the appeal in the clerk'.s office is analogous to the issuing a
writ of error; it is returnable to.the next term of the appellate
court; and a citation to the opposite. party to appear is necessary.
Here the entry of appeal was made in the clerk's bffice within
four months from*the date of tie decree, and therefore within
the time limited -bylaw. Tie.citation might, upon such an
entry, have been issued dter the xpiration of the four months.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Villabolos et al. v. United States.

But it must be issued and served before the term of this court
next succeeding the entry-of the appeal. And unless this ig
done, the case is not brought before this court. There was no
such citation in the present case, and the entry in the clerk's
office, standing by itself, was not a removal of the case by alpeal,.acc6rding to the act of Congress. There was, therefore,
no appeal within the time limited by law.
The construction of the act of 1828 contended for by the
appellant would defeat its evident policy and intention. It was
the object dr the law to obtain a speedy settlement in the judicial tribunals of claims made under Spanish titles, many. of
which were disputed by the United States, as unfounded or
fraudulent. This is manifest from the whole scope of the law;
and provisions are introduced for the purpose of compelling the
claimants to prosecute -their claims to'final judgment without
any unnecessary delay. And it wag to accomplish this object, that, instead of limiting the time for appealing to the Supreme Court to five years, as in the act of 180, it is reduced
to fouf months. But if this appeal can be maintained, there is
no limitation in cases of this kind. For here, after filing his
appeal in the clerk's office, it has been suffered to remain there
for nearly six years, without any citation to notify the district
attorney that an appeal had been prayed, or taking any step
to prosecute it. This entry without a citation was a mere
nullity.
Upon both of the grounds, therefore,, above stated, the appeal must .be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on'to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Superior Court of the District of East Florida,
and it appearing to the court here that this appeal is barred by
the lapse of time, and that the citation is not signed as directed by the act of Congress, it is therefore now here considered
and decreed by this court, that this cause be and the same is
hereby dismissed, and that this'cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Superior Court, to be proceeded in according to -lawand justice.

