JANUARY TERM, 1848.

209

Pulliam et al..v. Christian.

not injured by denying him an appeal in this stage of the proceedings. Because these interlocutory orders and decrees remain
under the control of the Circuit- Court, and subject to their revision, until the master's report comes in and is finally acted upon
by'the court, and the whole of the matters in controversy between the parties disposed of by a final decree. And upon an
appeal from that decree, every matter in dispute will be open to
the .parties in this court, and may all be heard and decided at
the same .time.
The decree in the case before us being interlocutory only,
the appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. And it appearing to
the court here that the decree of the said CircUit Court is an
interlocutory and not a final decree, it is therefore now here ordered .and decreed by this court, that this appeal be and the
same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SAXUFL

T. PULLIAX '4

OTHERS, A ELLANT'rS, v. PImnurw

TIAN, AssiGeq=. IN BANainircx op WiLLA.

OcHis.

ALLEz;

A decree of the Circuit Court, setting aide a deed made by a bankrupt before his
bankruptcy; directing the trustees under the deed to deliver over to the assignee
in bankruptcy all the property remaining undisposed of in their hands, but without deciding how far the trustees mightbe liable to the assignee for the proceeds
of sales previously made and paid away to the creditors; directing an account to
be taken of these last-mentioned sums in order to.a final decree, - is not iuch a
final decree ad can be appealed forom to this court.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Eastern Virginia.
The circumstances of the ease are stated in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Mr. Lyons, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr.Brooke and Mr. Myers, for the appellees.
It is not deemed necessary to insert the arguments of counsel upon the merits. of the case.
Mr. Lyons stated the case, and argued the preliminary question of jurisdiction, as follows.
Williarh Allen, of the city of Richmond, a merchant-tailor,
being very much embarrassed in his affairs, though he believed
18 *

210

SUPREME COURT,
Pulliam et al. v. Christian.

himself solvent, on the 20th day of January, 1842, executed a
conveyance to. the plaintiffs, as trustee, by which he conveyed
his whole property of every kind, for the purpose of satiifying
his debts. The conveyance provides, for all the ezeditors of
Allen full satisfaction of all their debts, if the assets be sufficient, but divides them into two classes, and the first is to be
fully paid before the second receives any thing, The trustees
took possession of the trust-subject, and proceeded to convert it
into money. On the 13th of August, 1842, the said Allen filed
his petition, praying to be declared a bankrupt. His petition was
allowed, and, on. the 7th of September, 1842, he was declared
a bankrupt, 'and on the 11th of January, 1843, he was duly
discharged by the decree of the. court, after due notice to all
persons interested, to show cause against the discharge.
On the 23d of August, 1842, two of the creditors of Allen
notified the trustees that they.intended to impeach the deed
under the bankrupt law, and claim an equal .distribution of
the funds; and on the 20th of September, 1842, Edmund
Christian, the general assignee in bankruptcy in Virginia, exhibited his bill before the Circuit Court of the United States.
for the Eastern District of Virginia, 'in which he impeached
the deed-as fraudulent within the meaning of the bankrupt
law, and prayed that it might be set aside.
The trustees and many of the creditors answered the bill,
denying that the deed was made in contemplation of bankruptcy, and denying that it was embraced by the bankrupt law,
or could be reached by any proceeding under it, as it was madebefore the law went into .operation, and therefore made when.
there was no bankrupt law. The Circuit Court held that the
deed- was fraudulent within the meaning of the bankrupt law,
and decreed that it should be set.side; and that' the trustees
should surrender the entire trust-subject in their hands to the
plaintiffs, and render an account before a commissioner of the
court.. From. this decree the appeal was taken, and the question upon the merits is, whether the word "future," in the
second section of the bankrupt law, can properly be construed to
embrace conveyances which were made before the law went
into operation.
, Before proceeding to consider this question, a word may be
bestowed upon a preliminary point, which is alluded to bythe
counsel for the appellee in their note, but not formally made,
viz. whether the appeal in this case was well taken, being, as
it is said, from an interlocutory decree. It is submitted, that,
on this point, ther can be no difficulty. The decree may be
regarded as interlocutory in one sense, that is, as being made
before the cause is finally ended and removed from -the docket

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

211

Pulliam et al.:
v. Christian.

of the court; but in respect to its own effect and operation the
decree is a .final one, because it adjudges and determines the
rights of the parties to the property in controversy, and all that
remains now to be done is in execution of this decree. The.
finality of a decree does not depend upon its termination of
the whole case, but upon its effect in settling the principles of
the cause, and adjudicating the rights of the parties to the subject in controversy. The decree in this cause performs all
these functions. It settles all the principles of the cause. wIt
idjudges the rights of all the parties, plaintiffs'and defendants,
to the subject, and it directs the defendants who have the subject to deliver it up to the plaintiffs. All that remains now to
be done is simply in execution of that decree. A judgment is
not interlocutory because execution.must be made of it. The
decree night have directed the assignee to distribute the fund,
as soon as received from, the defendants, among the creditors
of Allen, or the next decree raay do it, and yet not end the
cause, and when the fund is distri3iited an appeal may be
wholly unavailing, because the payees of the fund may be in.solvent.
Again. Wliy should the parties be continued in expensive
litigation in the court below, as the consequence of the decree
already pronounced, if that decree be erroneous, and when no
such litigation and expense will be incurred if that decree be
set aside and a correct decree pronounced ?
The counsel for the appellees submitted the question of jurisdiction to the court without arguing that bra/nch of the case.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery from the Circuit Court of the
Eastern District of Virginia.
. This case arises under the bankrupt law. William Allen,
a merchant-tailor in Richmond,. being embarrassed, conveyed
his whole property to the plaintiffs, as trustees, to pay his
debts. In the trust-deed he divides his creditors into tyo
classes, the first of which was to be fully. paid before the
second received any thing. Shortly after this, he took the
benefit of the bankrupt law. The assignee in bankruptcy
filed his bill to impeach the above conveyance, as fraudulent
under the bankrupt law.
In their decree, the Circuit Court ordered that the -deed executed by Allen, as above 'stated, should be set aside. And,
without deciding how far the trustees may be liable to the assigiiee-for the sums received for the proceeds of the property,
which may have been. paid over by.them. to the creditors of

212 •

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Metropolis 0. New England Bank..

Allen before they received notice, &c., the court ordered and
decreed that the trustees should deliver over the property conveyed to them which had hot been disposed of,and that they
render an account to one of the commissioners of the court of
all the property which came to their hands, or either of them,
by virtue of said deed, and of moneys paid to the creditors,
&c.; which account the said commissioner is directed to state
and settle, and report the same to. the court, With any matters
specially stated deemed pertinent by himself, or which may be
required by the parties, in order to a final decree.
This decree is final only as to the trust-deed. All the matters arising under the trust are referred to a commissioner for a"
statement of the account, to enable the court' to enter a final
decree. There is no sale or change of the property ordered
which can operate injuriously to the parties. Under such circumstances, the decree not being final as to the whole matter
in controversy, the appeal must be dismissed,
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec.;
ord from the Circuit Court of the United Statesfor the Eastern
District of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the court here that the decree of the said Circuit Cbut in this cause is an interlocutory
and not a final one, it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that this cause be and the- same is
hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

THs. PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF TnE BAK OF TEE METRO io.zg
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. Tns PRESID9NT, DIRECTORS,AND COZO.iNY OF THE NEw ENGLAND BANK.
Referring to the case of the Bank ot the Metropolis against the Xbw England Bank,
reported in 1 Howard, 234, the following instructions to the jury upon the second
trial would have carried out the opinion of this court, viz. ,st. If upon the whole evidence before them, the jury should find that the Bank
of the Metropolis, at the time of the mutual dea hlgs between them, had notice
that the Commonwealth Bank had no interest in the bills or notes in questionj
and that it transmitted them for collection merely as agent, then the Bank of the
Metropolis was not entitled to retain against the New England Bank for the
general balance of th-e account with the Commonwealth Bank.
2d. And if the Bank of the Metropolis had not notice that the Commonwealth
Bank was merely an agent, but regarded and treated it as the owner of the paper
transmitted, yet the Bank of the Metropolis is not entitled against the real owners, unless credit was given to the Commonwealth Bank, or balances suffered to
remain in its hands, to be met by the negotiable paper transmitted, or expected to
be transmitted, in the usual coirse of the dealings between the two banks.

