228

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

Order.
This cause came on to be. heard on the. transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden inand for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this cour, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby.reversed; with costs, -and that .this cause be and: the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
Iad
a 'enirefaas
de nova.

RicA3nD B'N. AND

.MRY,ms WIFE, APE.LL'ANTS, v. M Ry HEATH.

The Civil Code of Louisiana (article 2412) enacts, that "the wife, whether separated in property by contract orby judgment or not separated, cannot bind herself for her husband, nor cdnjointly with him, for debts contracted by him before
or during the marriage."
Where a wife mortgaged her property to raise money, and the question did not
turn upon, her doing so as the surety of her husband, it was not necessary for
the lender to prove that the proceeds of the loan inured to her separate use.,
The fact of the application of the money may be proved to show the character of
Ahe transaction, with a view of establishing collusion or fraud.
The decisions of the State courts of Louisiaua upon this subject examined.
Where a wife mortgaged her property, and' then sought relief in chancery upon
the grotind that the contract was void in consequence of her disability to contract, and, it was shown that the lender acted in good faith
; proceeded cautiously
under legal advice, under assurances that the loan was for the exclusive use of
the wife, to Whom the money was actually, paid; the-interest upon the loan paid
for several years;. the mortgaged roperty insured by her, and the policy assigned
to the mortgagee ;-a bill to relieve her from the contract cannot recerye the
sanction of a court of equity.
But it is no objection to such a bill, as a rule of pleading, that the husband is made
a party to it with the wife. He acts only as her prochin ama.

Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, sitting as a court
of The
chancery.
facts are. sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Johnson, for the
appellants, and Mr. Bradley and Mr. Jones, for the appellee.
There were also printed briefs for the appellee filed by Mr.
Eustis and by Messrs.'Elmore and King.
.Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants, stated
the substance of
the case as follows.
The bill in this case was fled by the appellants, Bein and
wife, t9 enjoin proceedings under a writ of seizure and sale

JANUARY TERM,- 1848.

.229

Bein itt ab v. Heath.

taken -out by the appellee, MatfIeaih, to sell certain property
of the appellant, Mary Bein, under a mortgage from the latter,
dated the 8th May, 1838, to secure two notes drawn by.her in
favor of her husband, and by him indorsed, -- the. one for
10,711.71, the other for $ 535.59.
The complainants allege that these notes were .given for a
loan ,obtained by Richard Bein, the husband, for his own use,
and which was so applied; and that in such'a case, by-the"
laws of Louisiana,..the.mortgage of the wife, and her promise
to pay the debt, or to. make her property responsible, is not
binding, but void.
The answer- of the appellee denies the averment of the bill
as to the purpose of the loan, or the use of the money and
evidence was taken on both sides.
And then he contended; 1st. That the loai was for the exclusive use of the husband,
and that it was so applied.
2d. That being for such use, and so applied, the notes and
mortgage were void a§ against the wife, and her property; and
that, consequently, the injunction prayed by the bill .should
have been made perpetual.
Upon the first point, Mr. Crittenden said, that Mrs. Bein
was a widow when she married Bein, that she was worth
$85,000 and free from debt. Her revenue was ample, as she
had only two or three children. Bein was a"merchant and
speculator, in fact insolvent at the time of the loan, although
appbrently engaged in business. Soon afterwards he became
openly an insolvent, and divided little amongst his creditors.
In May, 1838, when the loan was made, the witnesses say he
c6uld not raise money upon his own responsibility. For whom
is it likely, then, that' the loan was made. The husband was
surrounded with unpaid bills and pecuniary embarrassments of
every description. The question is for whom the money was
borrowed, and that is the only question under the Louisiana
law. We do not find in the record that the wife wanted
money. On the contrary, the husband was pressing Heath for
the money. A lawyer was consulted, who said the loan must
be made to the wife, and an effort was made to give the affair
that semblance. Hence the interlineation in the mortgage.
Can these written papers prevent the wife from showing the
truth of the transaction ? Bein paid to one person $ 4,000 in
that same month of May, and also paid other people. But he
had no means to pay them witli except- this loan. He owed
Sherman & Co. a debt, which he paid. Not a dollar went to
the benefit of the wife. ' But according to the forms of the
transaction, she received the money. It was paid by, a check
VOL. v1. .
20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v, Heath.

to her, which -was placed in her own hands. What is the law
of Louisiana in such a case ? (Mr. Crittenden then cited the
article 2412 of the Civil Code, and all the ,State authorities set
forth- in the opinion of the court, upon which he commented.)
Mr. Bradley,for the appellee, made the following points :
1. The loan was made to the wife.
2. She could borrow money and mortgage her property; or,
3. -If not loaned to her,.-it was a fraud practised by the complainants on the defendant.
4. In either case she can have no relief in equity, and there
is no error in the decree rendered by the Circuit Court; and,
5. This is a bill by husband and wife, respecting her separate property, in which he is indirectly charged with seeking
to injure her. Their interests are adverse. It is his suit.
They are improperly joined. Advantage of this can be taken
at the hearing, and the bill must be dismissed.
The marriage contract shows that the wife had power to
contract. Having this power, 6he admits that she made this
contract in the most formal manner known to the laws, holding out the idea that the loan was for her benefit. We do not
say that she, can be a. surety for her husband. The court
ought to protect her in her rights, but there are also other persons 'to be protected, who were dealing fairly in the transaction. Can she now say, that she led the other party into a
snare, and that this other party must show that the money was
actually expended for her sole benefit ? The question is, Upon
whom is the burden of proof ? We say that the complainants
must show that the money did not, in fact, go to her use. We
have her declaration before the notary that it was so. In none
of the cases which have been cited can such a formal admission be found. The books and payments of the husband cannot be admitted to contradict this notarial act of the wife.
Civil CQde, art. 2233 - 2235; 8 Martin, N. S. 693, 694; 10
Martin, 439.
The letters of Heath show that he thought he was making
the loan to the wife. These letters were ruled out below, but
exceptions were taken. Starkie, Ev. 57, 62 - 64; Story,
Agency, %4 131, 135.
The declaration of the husband was to the same effect, and
he could act for his wife. Civil Code, art. 2330 -2333.
In
this case he was her proper agent. Tbid.; art. 2340, 2362, 2363;
2 Rob. 20; 11 La. Rep. 258; 7 Martin, N. S. 144.
There was collusion and frana between the husband and wife
to cheat Heath. Civil Code, art. 1841, defines fraud. 1 Story's Eq. 384, 385.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
Bei

et al.

-

231

Heath.

If- the other side are right in saying that the lender must
look to the manner in which the money is spet, then all married women, under such circumstances, would be placed under
the supe.rvision of trustees -Who might be strangers. She was
not a surety for her husband, because he owed us nothing. After borrowing the money, if she chose to lend it to him, she
brought herself within the provision of the civil law. Ulpian,
book 16, tit. 1."Bein was insolvent in 1840, two years after the loan was
made.. But, the interest was.paid for four years afterwards.
In the, admission of facto upon the record is this:"It is'also admitted that the first four years' interest on the
loan was-regularly paid, and that for that time -the policy of incurance on the hqui
mortgaged to secure the loan was regularly assigned, in coformity with -the contract of loan.

(Signed,)
(Signed,)

R. HzATH,
R. iNT, Gomylt's Sol.
ErmonE & KING,
Att'ys for Respo~idents."

Who paid the interest all this time ? The liolicy, too, was
made-out in the name of the wife, and indorsed by her. She
was returned, .also, as a creditor in her husband's schedule.
She must, therefore, have been acquainted with the whole
affair.
But it has been sa!- that the decisions in Louisiana require
that we should have seen that the money was expended for the
wife's separate use. (Mr. Bradley, here critically examined
these authorities.)
In point of fac, although we are not bound to show it, the
record, does prove that the. money was actually used for her
benrt. On the 29th of _day, seventeen days after the money
was borrowed, Bein paid-$ 5,500 on account of an elder mortgage, which secured a debt of $ 15,000 due to the 'ife.
On the 5th point of the brief, the misjoinder of parties, Mr.
-Bradleycited 1 Sim. & Str4 . 185 ; 2 ib. 464; 2 Keen, 59, 70
-72 - 5 Simons, 551 - 5i.
Messrs. fllmore 4- K*g filed the following analysis of the
Louisiana authorities.
Damford
v. Grbs and Wife, 7'[Martin, 489. -Decided under
"the
law ofi Toro.
Lombard v, Guillett And Wife, 11 Martin, 453. -In this case,
no proof that the husband authorized the wife to
sign the note with- him, noi did she sign the act of mortgage,
.althongh itwas given by the husband, -upon .her property.

-there was

232

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. ieath.

Banks v. Trudean, 2 New Series, 39.- In this cage, the
wife was admitted and proved to be surety for her husband.
The case was decided upon the law of Toro. (Wife might
bind herself with the husband, provided she renounced the law

of Toro.)
Perry v. Gerbeau and Wife, 5 New Series, 19.- In tugs case,
the wife was surety.
Sprigg v. Bossier,'5 New Series, 54. - The note sued on was
given for property purchased by the husband, and she was
surety merely.
Me [ickem v. Smith and Wife, 5 New Series, 431.- The
note sued on was given in part for negroes sold to the husband,
and in part for a balance then due by him on another obliga*tion to plaintiff.
.Hughes v.Harrison, 7. New Series, 25.- The note sued on
was given "for their and plantation use." The wife was surety merely for her husband, for part of the debt. The case was
remanded, to enable the plaintiff to prove how much was for
the wife's use and benefit.
Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife, 7 New Series, 64. - This ac-tion, although deeided in the year 1828,.was brought on a note
for $ 1,800, dated August 31st, 1821, and due three years after
date. This I know, from having examined the record in the
Supreme Court. The case 'was consequently decided under
the law of Toro, which. had not been repealed before the exe-cution of the note. The court say the husband and wife were
bound jointly and severalty. This made the case fall- completely within the law of Toro. There was no evidence that
the note was given for the wife's benefit. Upon this the court
lays great emphasis, and upon'it, in fact, decides thb case.
The court decided, that the circumstance that she received
the money was'not sufficient evidence that it was foi her separate use and benefit. As the law then stood, the wife was not
bound at all on the contract or -note; it was a nullity -n the
face of ft. She was only bound for what was used for her
separate benefit, upon a quantum meruit. Her receiving the
money did not at all prove that the note was made for her separate use, or that the money was applied to her separate use.
By our law, as it now stands since the repeal of the law of
Toro, there is no impropriety in a wife binding herself conjointly with her husband, provided it be not for a debt contracted
by him. A husband may be surety for the wife for debts contracted for her separate benefit* and he may be bound jointly
:with. h~r'for such a debt. The prohibition of article 2412 does
-not extend, as it did under the law of Toro, to the form of the
instrument, but only to a joint contract for the husband's debt.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.2

•233

Bein et al. v. Heath.

To determine, then, whether a contract falls within the prohibition of that article 2412, twQ things have first to be ascertained.
First.. Whether the wife has bound herself for her husband,
or
as his surety;
and,
. Second.
Whether
the debt -was contra6ted, by him -before or
during the marriage. Both of these conditions are absolutely
necessary, to bring any case within the prohibition of that article.
It will be seen from the above, that the law under which the
case of Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife was decided was very different from the law as it now. stands. The facts differed still
more'widely from the case before the court. In the case of
Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife, there was no evidence that the
contract was the wife's; there was no notarial act 'showing
this. As the law then stood, the check being given to her Was
not sufficient evidence of this. In our case, the wevidence is
conclusive that the original contract -was made by the wife.
The note and mortgage were not given for a debt of the' husband, but of the wife.
Pilie v. Patin et al., & New Series, 693. -In this case, the
wife was. clearly shown to have been surety merely for her
husband, for a preexisting debt due to -the plaintiff, and at .his
solicitation gave a mortgage, in which the facts were purposely
misrepresented to evade the law. This was clearly proved.
The plaintiff was a party to the whole transaction. In the
case before the court, Sherman Heath believed the loan was
really made for the benefit of Mrs. Bein, and that the representations"enumerated in the act were true.
Guasquet v. Dimitry 9 Louisiana, 585. -This
case was
widely different,- in all its- features, from the case before the
court. The' court decided that a. renunciation made by the
wife was done for the-benefit of the husband, and that the act
was prohibited by art. 2412, Civil Code; that the wife was, in
fact, surety for her husband.
Davidson. v. Stuart et al., 10 Louisiana,'146. -In this case,
the court decided, that, although the land for which the note
was given was purchased in the name of the wife, yet still it
was community property.
Being community property, -thehusband had as much right
to sell or otherwise dispose of it as if it were in his-own name;
consequently, the price due for it was a debt of She husband's.
Firemen's Insurance Company.v. Cross and Wife, 4 Robinson, 509.'- In this case, the court say.that the money was borrowed for the husband's benefit, that the wife never feceived a
dollar of it, and that the plaintiffs were aware of these facts.
20 *

2".

SUPREME COURT.
Beinet al v. Heath.

It will at once be perceived that the case differed widely from
our case, where there is.not a particIo"of evidence showing that
Sherman Heath knew this money was borrowed for- Bein's
benefit. On the contrary, the evidence shows that he believed
it was for Mrs. Bein's benefit.
Miaddox v. Maddox, Ex., 12 Louisiana, 14; Martin v.Esther
Drake, 1 Robinson, 219 ; Petit Pain v. Therese Palmer, 1 Robinson, 220. -In these cases no principle was decided different
from that decided in the others above ,cited; and they are relied on by the defendant to show that it must be proved by the
evidence whether the loan was made to the husband or the wife.
It is proper' to give the views of Mr. Eustis, also, upon this
subject, who filed a printed brief, as has been already stated.
The following is an extract from that brief.
Some confusion exists in the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana which have been made under the dominion of'
the Spanish laws. These laws have since been abrogated.
They, however, require some explanation, so far as this subject
is concerned:
The 61st law of Toro provided :- From henceforth, it
shall not be lawffil for the wife to bina herself as security for
her husband, although it be alleged that the debt was converted toL her benefit'; and wado also order, that when th husband
and wife shall obligate themselves jointly in one contract, or
severally, the wife shall not be bound in any thing, unless it
-shall be proved that the debt was converted to her benefit,
and then 'she shall be bound in proportion to what shall have
been so applied." 7 Martin, 489; Novissima Recopilacion,
10, 11, 3.
By the laws of Spain, the wife could bind herself jointly and
severally with -her husband,_provided she renounced this law,
in which case (of renunciation), to render her liable, it was not
necessary to prove that the debt inured to her benefit. Banks
v. Trudeau, 2 Martin, N. S. 40.
Wives were not bound by agreements entered into jointly,
or jointly and severally, with their Jusbands, unless it be shown
that they have renounced those lawsmade for their protection,
or that the contract has been profitabla to them. Perry v. Grebeau et ux., 5 Martin, N. S. 19.
In the case of Darnford v. Gros and Wife, cited 7 Martin,
489, the court held that this law. of Toro -was not repealed. by
the Civil Code of 1809, which c6ntained no rpealing clause,
and no provision incompatible with this law,
But the Civil Code of 1825, which.is Uow in force, contained
a general repealing clause (art. 8521), which abrogated the

JANUAR . TERM, 1848.

235

Bein et al. r.'Heath.

Spanish laws, and among the rest this law of Toro. A subsequent statute destroyed every vestige of the Spanish laws, that
is, the laws ds contradistinguished from the jurisprudence.
The Civil Code, which repealed this provision of the law of
Toro, regnacted it, but without the ekception concerning the
burden: of proof; thus, in article 2412; it is provided, that the
wife, whether separated in property from'her husband or not,
cannot bind herself for her husband, nor conjointly with him,
for debts contracted by him before, or during the marriage.
That is, in other words, the wife cannot be the surety of the
husband.
The effect of the repeal of. the law of Toro would undoubtedly leave the wife entirely at liberty to charge her separate
estate, except as prohibited in the article 2412, and in all cases
the proof would rest upon the general principles of the law of
evidence.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana have never considered or
adjudicated on this subject of the repealof the law of Toro;
it was nbver presented by counsel in the different cases cited
by the defendant's counsel.
The cases antecedent to and including that of Brandegee v.
Kerr and Wife (7 Martin, N. S. 64) were all decided under the
law of Toro. This case, though decided in 1828, was on a
note dated the 31st of August, 1821, and consequently regulated as to its obligations by the law under which it was
made.
If we. look back to the reason and origin of these laws
which prohibit women from contracting, it will be found that
they were made for the purpose of preventing the weakness
and good faith of women from being surprised, but were never
held to reach a case where any indirection or equivocation of
conduct should be apparent; still less, one in which the exemp>tion of the woman from responsibility would produce the grossest injustice. Such was the sense of the Roman laws on this
subject, and such has been their interpretation, in modem
times, in thosq countries in which the Roman jurisprudence
is adopted.
Merlin says expressly, that if the wife make use of any deceit or fraud, the privilege of the senatus velleianum is denied
to her, which is intended to protect good faith, and can never
be made to c6ver any obliquity of conduct. Merlin, R;p. de
Jurisprudence, vol. 30, p. 349; verbo, senatus consultum -ei,
lein.
The decisions relied upon by the complainants are believed
to turn upon the question of fact, whether the debt was or not
that of the husbind. If it was the husbaud's debt, the wife

236

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

could not bind herself to pay it.. The article of the Code is
p6sitive. But if the debt was heks, there is a valid obligation
on her part to pay it out of her sepiate estate.
In Louisiana, the law considers marriage, so far as relates to
property, as a civil contract only. Civil Code, tit. 4, art. 87.
Parties may regulate their rights as to property, during mar-.
riage, as they please, provided certain rules of public policy are.
not violated thereby. Civil Code, art. 2305."
The wife is under no disability of contracting %vitl-theconsent of her husband. Civil Code, art. 124.
The matrimonial conventions of the parties must be made
before marriage; but the husband, during marriage, may convey to the wife property to replace that which may hate been
alienated by him, as was done in this case. Record, pp. 43,44.
By the Roman law, no effect was produced by marriage on
the property of the parties which they possessed at the time
o'fmarriage, unless the contrary was provided by an'express
stipulation. Institutes of the Roman Law, by Mackeldey,

4 516.,

There was no fictitious confusion of persons produced by
marriage; it was an institution which raised the wife to the
rank of the husband, and rendered her children legitimate.
Ibid. 515.
The dotal property was transferred to the husband, but that
-which was not so transferred remained under her absolute and
unlimited control. Ibid. 517, 529.
. Here, then, we have a party, laboring under no
disability
whatever, who. has made a contract. Is this contract within
the prohibition of article 2412 ? Did she bind herself for her
husband's debt, or for her own ? Like every other. question
of fact, this must be solved by the evidence. So far as the
complainant is concernedy, it is obvious that she and her agent
loaned the money, in good faith, to Mrs. Bein, and not to her
husband. Her husband was insolvent at the time; who, therefore, would lend him money? We find part of the money
loaned applied to the extinguishment of an encumbrance of an
estate, which, for all the purposes of this inquiry, must be considered as hers.
. On the' 12th of Jlme, 1838, in the act of transfer of the
Nayades Street property from her- husband, the Hobson mortgage foi $ 15,000 is mentioned as existing on the property,
which the husband' binds himself to have, released. The am-plication of part of the money borrovwed from the complaisant
to the extinguishment of this mortgage is proved by the concurrent testimony of several witnesses. Sewell. and Wife v.
Cox, MS. case.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

237

Bein et al. v. Heath.

In the embarrassed and complicated state of the affairs of the
husband, it is in.the power of no one but himself to -trace with
certainty the result of any single payment, so as io ascertain
who was, or who was not, ultimately benefited by it.- But
that this was the debt of his wife, and not his, and that by no
use of the money on his part did either the complainant or
his wife become his creditor, we have his solemn oath, made"
under the pefialties of the bankrupt act.
We have the declarations and the acts of the parties themselves, coincident with their respective-obligations, which, in a
matter of equity- is surely conclusive in a casewhere no du-"
ress or decebption is even alleged.
Mr. Johnson, for the appellimts; in reply and conclusion.
The case divides itself into the following points 1st. For whom was the loan made, and to-whose benefit did
it inure ? - Not to whom it was made, but for whom. This is
a question of fact.
2d. Whether, if made for the husband, and inuring to his
benefit,
contract is void. * This is a question of law.
This the
latter point gives rise
to the two following subdivisions :1.. On which party the onus probandi rests .to show the na-

,ture of the loan. And,
2. If that onus is. on the wife, whether she has hot sufficiently shown that it did not inure to her benefit.
1st. For whom was the loan made? Many facts in the case
are not .disputed.. One of -them is, that from the middle of
1837, to May, 1838, the husband was insolvent' and unable to
borrow. The answer says that Heath would not have loaned
the money to him. When Bein became openly insolvent, he
had no assets. It is a fact, also, which cannot be disputed, that
the record does not show a single word to have passed between
the wife and the' lender, or between the wife and Smith the
attorney. She never spok6 at all except through the niortgage. Smith says he warned Heath, but it does not appear
that he cautioned Mrs. Bein, or informed her of her rights.
Mr. Bein was brought to the office, and he said every thing
that was said. What became of the money ? If it is found
in: the hands of the husband, it is a proof that it was obtained
for his benefit, It is surprising that the opposite counsel have
referred to Bein's schedule when he became -insolvent, because
it shows that he received every cent -of the money. The
amount of the. loan.was $10,711.71: In the schedule is the
following :-

238

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

Names of creditors. Residence. - Nature of debt.
Mrs. Mary Bein New Orleans, - for amo't
rec'd from sale of house,
Canal Street.
Ain't rec'd from sale lot,
Union Street
Amo't of money rec'd
by sale
Cr. By amount refunded
of house on Nayades Street
Less her assumption of bond
to Bank of Louisiana
Ain't of R. A. Martin's draft
" of 0. Osborne's note
" M. Connoher's account
' James Varin's do.
Balance due Mrs. Bein

Amounts.

Remarks.

18,715.00
6,950.00
10,711.71

$

-

26,000.00
10,000.00
16,000.00
654.13
233.22
118.00
35.00
9,406.361704035

The amount of money received by him from Mrs. Bein, being
exactly that of the loan, shows that it was the same money.
Moreover, the counsel upon the opposite side put the following
cross-interrogatory to the brother of Mr. Bein.
"Cross-interrogatory 8th. Have you never known Richard
Bein to represent that this money was borrowed from some one
else than the person you have named? If yea, from whom
did he represent that it was borrowed?"
To which the witness answered: ' 8th. To the eighth he answers, that he never knew said
Richard to represent said money, or any money, as borrowed at
that time, May, 1838, from any one else than from Sherman
Heath."
The counsel on the other side have made this answer evidence.
(Mr. Johnson then entered, into arithmetical calculations,
from parts of the record, to show that this money was totally
lost to Mrs. Bein.)
2d. Is not such a contract void by the laws of Louisiana in
force after the repeal of the law of Toro? The policy of these
laws is evident. They are not to protedt ihe wife against
strangers, with whom she might contract, but against the arts
of the husband, against his fraud or force. He might induce
her to contract in her own name, and this is what the law intended to prevent.. A similar principle prevails in other States,
where 4 private examination of the wife is required. But the
laws of Louisiana intended to strike deeper and to prevent the
evil by avoiding the contract altogether. The substance of
the law of Toro is preserved. It is made the duty of the
lender to see where the money goes. 7 Martin, 489. Both

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

239

Bein et al. v. Heath.

laws make the illegality of the contract depend upon the application of the money. If this construction is not given to the
present law. of Louisiana, the protection thrown around married women is destroyed altogether,-because the husband may
induce them to assunme any form of contract.
(Mr. Johnson here entered into a critical examination of the
Louisiana cases, to show that they made the contract stand or
fall by the fact, to whose benefit the loan: inured.)
Upon the point whether there was a misjoinder in the bill,
Mr. Johnson read and remarked upon the cases in 1 Sim.
& Stu. 185; 2 ib. 464; 2 Keen, 59, 70; where the. whole
practice of the court is stated.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of-the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana.
The bill was filed by the appellants, Bein' and wife, to enjoin proceedings under a writ of seizure and sale taken out by
the appellee, Mary Heath, to sell certain property of.the appellant, Mary Bein, under a mortgage from the latter, dated
8th of May, 1838, to secure. two notes drawn by her in
favor of her husband, and by him indorsed,- the one for
$10,711.71, the other for $ 535.50.
These notes, the complainants allege, were given for a loan
obtained by Richard Bein, the husband, for his own use, and
which was so applied; and that in such a case, by the laws of
Louisiana, the mortgage of the wife, and 'her promise to pay
the dbt, or to make her propeity responsible, is not binding,
but void.
The answer of the appellee denies the averment of the bill,
as to the purpose of the loan or the use of the money.
It is objected, that, the suit being brought in the name of
the husband and wife, it must be considered the suit of the
husband; and that a decree would not bind the wife.
On looking into the bill, it -appears that the name of the
husband is used only as the prochein ami of his wife. He '
asks no relief. The wife prays an injunction against the sale
of the mortgaged property, and a rescission of the mortgage and
notes, and a release from all liability thereon. The bill was
sworn to by the wife, and a rule was entered on the attorneys
of the defendant, to show cause why the injunction should not
be granted in favor of Mary Bein, and at a subsequent day the
writ was granted. An injunction bond was given by the wife,
with security, the name of the husband being used only as
authorizing the wife to execute the bond. And so throughout
the Ipoeeedings the wife is treated as the party in interest, the
name of the husband being formally used.

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

Where the wife complains ofkthe husband, and asks relief
against.him, she must use the n~me of some other person in
prosecuting the suit; but where th6 acts of the husband are
not qomplained of, hewoiild seem to be the most suitable person to unite with her in the suit. This is a matter of practice, within the discretion of the court. It is sanctioned in the
63d section of Story's Equity Pleadings, and by Fonblanque.
The modern practice in England has adopted a different course,
by writing the name of the wife with. a person-other than her.
husband, in certain cases. From the frame of the bill, no
doubt is entertained that the decree will bind the wife.
Prior to the marriage of Bein and wife, they entered into a
marriage contract, in which it was stipulated that neither
should be liable for the debts of the other; and each reserved
the right of selling and disposing, of their prolerty, after marriage; as they might deem proper, with the ponseilt of the other.
The wife brought into the marriage, and settled upon herself,
as stated, property,- real and personal, estimated to be worth
eighty-eight thousand six hundred and thirty-five dollars.
This contract was entered into in accordance with the Louisiana law.
The loan was negotiated on the 8th of May, 1838, at which
time it is proved that Richard Bein was known to be much
embarrassed, and, as it appears .in proof subsequently, was
actually insolvent. In the at of mortgage Mrs. Bein declared
that she was justly indebted unto Sherman Heath in the full
sum of ten thousand seven hufndred and- eleven dollars and
seventy-one cents, being aloan of money made to her, and for
her sole benefit, &c. This act had all the sanctions required
by law. On the 10th of the same month, a check, payable to
Mrs. Mfary Bein, or order, for the above sam, was drawn by S.
Heath & Co. on "1The Citizens' Bank of Louisiana," and
handed, to Mrs. Bein.
- It -appears *that Heath had knowledge of the embarrassments. of.Bein, and consulted with J. W. Smith, a lawyer,
whois a witness, how the loan could be. legally made. He.
was informed that it must be made for the sole benefit and use
of the wife, and that the husband should not be interested in
or benefited by it. Heath stated that the money- belonged to
his mother, and he dial not wish to receive more than the-legal
interest, for fear of difficulty; and that he had rather loan the
money to Mrs. Beiri, believing it to be safe, than to let other
persons have it at higher rates. Afterwards, Heath and Bein
being present, the witness stated to them that the loan would
not be legal unless it was for Mrs. Bein's sole use and benefit;
"1that no loan could be made legally to him under cover of a

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

241

Bein et al..v. Heath.

loan to his wife, and that it must be a bona fide contract with
Mrs. Bein." Bein then, in the most positive manner, informed
Heath that the proposed loan was a real bonafide loan to Mrs.
Bein, that there was no cover or concealment about it. Witness examined the act of mortgage, and filled up the check and
handed it to the notary.
For nearly five years Mrs. Bein paid the interest on the loan,
kept the property insured, and assigned the policy annually.
On the 2d of April, 1840, Richard Bein filed his petition for'
the benefit of the insolvent act, attached to which was a schied'le of his debts; and among others, a debt due to his wife for
the same-amount above loaned to her. It appears that Bein paid
several debts of large amounts shortly after the loan was negotiated, but, independently of his own statements, there is no
positive evidefice that these payments were made with the
money loaned.
The article 2412 *of the Civil Code of Louisiana declares,
The wife, whether separated-in property by.contract or by
judgment, or not separated, cannot bind herself for her husband,
nor conjointly with him, for debts, contracted by him before or
during the marriage."
Under this law, a mortgage given, by the wife to secure a
loan made to the husband, or to the wife -covertly for his use,
is void. As the loan in question was made to the wife, which
appears from the -mortgage arid the check for the money, a
question in the case is, whether.. these forms were adopted to
charge the wife, in. fraud of the law, for the 'benefit of the
husband.
No fraud or mistake is alleged in the bill. The complainant
states that the loan was. made by her husband for his benefit,
that she became his surety in violation of the law-of Louisi-ana, and was induced, contrary to her wish, to mortgage her
property for the payment of the money. On these grounds,
the court ire asked to declare the mortgage void.
If' this bill be sustainable, it must be on the peculiar provisions of-the Louisiana law. In ordinary cases it would be' demurrable. Where a feme covert, by the forms of law, has
conveyed her property, she can avoid the effect of such conveyance only by showing mistake or fraud. And this must be
alleged in the' bill. On ordinary principles, an individual is
estopped from denying a fact which he has admitted in a sealed
instrument.
In making the loan, Heath acted with great caution. He
was agent for his mother. He proceeded under legal advice,
and eonsumlmated the agreement in thepresence of his counsel. Bein was known to be'ilresponsible ; cbnsequently Heath
VOL. VI.
21
-"

242

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

did not Yely upon him for payment, The acts of Heath in
negoiiating the contract, and the accoumt he gave of it, all
show that he acted in good faith, and in full confidence that the
loan was made to Mrs. Bein. The mortgage was executed by
her, under the most solemn declaration Y"that the money was
borrowed for her benefit," - her attention being specially directed to the clause of the mortgage which so declares, as appears
from a marginal note, 7- sanctioned by the notary, and signed
also by other persons. And the check for the money was paid
to the mortgagor.
From these facts, it is clear that Heath is not chargeable
with collusion. And there is nothing on the face-of the contract to excite suspicion. On such a transaction. the mortgagee
may well stand and claim. the benefit of the security until it
shall be impeached by the mortgagor. This is attempted to be
done, not by proof of fraud or mistake, but on the ground that
the loan did inure to the benefit of the husbaiid, and not to the
benefit of the wife. This is a matter subsequent to the contract, and involves the inquiry, whether the person making a
loan, with- the utmost fairness and caution, to the wife, must,
to charge her, see that the money is applied to her use.
The article, which declares that the wife cannot become the
surety.-of her husband, does not superadd the above important
condition as to the application of the money. It is not in the law,
unless it shall have been put there by judicial legislation. The
fact, that the money borrowed was paid to the husband or was
used. for his benefit, as a matter of evidence, may be proved to
show. the character of the transaction. And, connected with
other facts, it may.conduce to establish collusion or fraud. But
to treat this supposed requisite as a matter of law, under the
above article, would violate every known rule of construction.
With this general remark, we will examine the Louisiana decisions on this point.
The case of Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife, 7 Martin, N. S. 64, in
facts and principle is said to be similar to the one under consideration. That was an "Iaction on the note of the wife indorsed by
the husband, alleged to have been received from the wife on a
loan made to her by a check delivered to her." And the court
say, "that the circumstance of the wife having a separate advantage in the, contract, being of the essence of her obligation,
must be proven by some other evidence than proof of her having touched the money." And' in conclusion they say, - "1Beingof opinion that there is no fact in evidence from which it
is possible to infer that the plaintiff's money was employed for
the separate use of the wife," &c., "1we conclude that the
wife is not bound." The court also say, - " We cannot dis-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

243

Bein et al. v. Heath.

tinguish this paper from a note joint and several of husband
and wife, for they are bound jointly and severally, and the
plaintiff has prayed for a judgment joint and several."
It must be admitted, that the court, in the above case, consider proof of the application of the money to the use of the
wife as essential to bind her. And unless that case,. in its facts
or the law under which it was decided, shall be shown to differ
from the facts and law of the case under consideration, it will
constitute a rule of decision in this case.
If this action were on the notes given by Mrs. Bein and indorsed by her husband, in that respect, and also in the payment
of the money to the wife, the cases would be similar. But in
the case before us, the action is on the mortgage, in which
there is no liability of the husband, and no decree is asked
against him. It is true, notes were given similar to that given
in the case cited, but the notes of vlrs. Bein, though indorsed
by her husband, must be considered as connected with the
mortgage, which explains the nature of the transaction. ARd
in addition to this, there is evidence that the contract Was made
with Mrs. Bein, under the strongest assurance that the loan was
made for her sole benefit, and under a full conviction by Heath
that it was so made. In these important particulars, there is a
difference between the cases. The case cited seems to have
rested on the face of the note and the check.
But still the ground, as to the application of the money, remains unanswered.
In the above decision, the case of Darifoxd v. Gros and
Wife, 7 Martin, 465, is cited, and it is the-only authority referred to in the opinion of the court. The decision in that
case was founded on the 61st-law of Toro. It is cited by the
court as follows: - ' From henceforward, it shall not be lawful for the wife to bind herself as security for her husband, al-,
though it should be alleged that the debt was converted to her
benefit; and we do also order, that when the husband and wife
shall obligate themselves jointly in one contract, or severally,
the wife shall not be bound in any thing, unless it shall be
proved that the debt was converted to her benefit, and she
shall then be bound in proportion to what shall have been so
applied." "But if the debt so applied to her use served only
to procure that which her husband was obliged to supply her
with, such as food, clothing, and other necessaries, then we
say that she shall not be bound in any thing."
The above action was founded on a promissory note subscribed by the wife conjointly with her husband. And the
court say, "that the restriction imposed by-the. Spanish laws
on the obligations contracted by the wife jointly with her hus-

.244

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

band has not ceased to be in force, and that, according. to it,
when the creditor wishes to compel her to the performance of
such an obligation, he must prove that the debt was converted
to her benefit."
.The law of Toro was repealed, with all other Roman, Spanish, and French laws .in Louisiana, in every case provided for
in the Civil Code by article 3521. The-Civil Code was adopted in 1825. But as the case first cited, of Brandegee v. .Kerr
and Wife, was decided in 1828, after the repeal of the la-# of
Toro, it is contended that the decision could not have been
governed by that law. But it seems, from the statement of
one of the counsel, that the contract was made under that law.
The reference to the case of Daruford v. Gros and Wife shows,
as above stated, that the dec'ision against Kerr and wife was
made under the law of Toro. This appears clearly from' the
language of the court.
Great reliance is -placed on the case of The Fireman's Company v. Julia Louisa Cross, 4 Robinson, 509. That action was
instituted on a promissory note for $ 7,000, drawn by the defendant, and secured by mortgage on her paraphemal property.
It was proved "that no portion of the money loaned was ever
paid to the defendant, but that it was paid by the plaintiffs to
differeht persons on orders given by the husband."
The facts in that case show that the wife was the surety of
the husband. And the court very properly held, that such
proof vas adrm.issible, although in the mortgage the wife stated
the loan was made to her. Article 2256 declares, "that parol
evidence shall not be admitted against or berond what is contained in the acts," &c. But this was held not to apply to
contracts made in fraudem legis.
In their opinion the court say,-" We are satisfied that the
money borrowed was intended for, and was applied to the use
of, the defendant's husband." "This case," they observe, "is
much stronger than that of Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife, in
which it appeared that the wife had actually received the
money, but there was no proof of its having turned to her
separate advantage?"
The citation of the case against Kerr and wife is a- seeming
sanction of the ground on which that case was decided. But
the case before the court did not turn upon the application of'
the loan, as it was clear that the husband received the money,
and applied it, by orders on the plaintiffs, to the payment of his
own debts. 'This shows the intent with which the loan was
made, and also that the facts were known to the plaintiffs.
The reference seems to have been made to the case of Kerr
and wife generally, without adverting to the law under which
it was decided.

.JANUARY

TERM, 1848.

245

Bein et al. v. Heath.

Sanvinet et
Of the same character was the case of Pascal .v.
al,, decided in 1846, and reported in manuscript.
'The husband and wife, by a decree, were separated in property, after which she delegated to him extensive and general
powers for the management and administration of her affairs.
Two years after this, the husband, under this power, executed
the notes and mortgage in question, " stating in the act that
the sum was due by his wife, in consequence of a loan made
to her by the defendant, and which he, as her agent, acknowledged to hive received." And the court say, -" 1 There is no
proof that any part of this loan passed into the hands of the
plaintiff, or that it was applied or turned to her benefit. She
was not personally present at the execution of the act, and is
not shown to have been aware that the loan had been made or
-the mortgage granted."
From these facts, there would seem to have been no mode
by which the wife could be bound, except by showing that
the money was applied to her use. This, on being shown,
would, it is supposed, have confirmed the agency. It would
have established the bond fide chaiacter of the act done by the
husband. As a matter of evidence, then, to explain the nature
of the transaction, proof that the loan accrued to the benefit
of the wife was necessary to bind her.
It must be admitted, that the general language of the court
covers the ground assumed by the counsel for the appellant.
They say,- " It has been settled, by repeated decisions of the.
late Supreme Court, -that it is incumbent on the party claiming
to enforce the contract of a married woman to show that the
contract inured to her separate advantage." A:d they cite the
case of Brandegee v. Kerr and Wife, and repeat, "1:that the cir.cumstance of the wife having a separate advantage in the contract, being of the essence of her obligation, must be proved."
In answer to. these remarks, it may be said, thai the case
turned upon the suretyship of the wife, and not upon the application of the money. The act was done by the husband
without the knowledge of the wife, which shows that it was
done for his benefit.
It was lhld, 2 Martin, N. S. 39, that the wife may bind.herself jointly and severally with her husband, provided she renounces the law of Toro in due form. And that, when this is
done, the creditor need not prove that the engagement turned
to her advantage. But she cannot bind herself as surety for
her husband; not even by binding herself in solido with him.
That decision was made in 1823.
In Gasquet et al. v. Dimitry, 9 Louisiana,;. 585, it was held,
"where the wife signs an act of mortgage with her husband,
21*

246

SUPREME COURT,
Bein et al. v. Heath.

given-to secure a debt for his benefit, in -which she renounces
formally all her rights, privileges, and mortgages on the prop.
erty, ceding and transferring them to her husband's creditor,
was a contract entered into by the wife conjointly with her
husband, binding herself for his debt, which, being prohibited
by article.2412, was void."
The court in their opinion say, -" The counsel for the
appellant, in support of the position, that the agreement on
the part of the' wife to renounce her claims on the mortgaged
property is null and void, relies upon article 2412." After
citing -the article, they observe, -" The question thus presented is to be decided by us without reference to the laws of
Toro, which have no longer here the force of laws, and independently of former decisions of this court while giided by the
Spanish jurisprudence; but we are called on to .say what, in
our opinion, is the law of the land on this subject, as established by the code standing by itself."
On a rehearing of the above case, the court held that the
wife -was the surety of the husband, within "the sense of article 2412, and that the act was consequently void." And it
appears that the. legislature, being dissatisfied with the decision,
passed an act declaring "that married women aged twenty-one
years shall have the right to renounce, in favor of third persons, dotal, paraphernal, and other rights," in a certain form,
&c.In the
case of E. Monfort v. Her Husband, 4 Robinson' 453,
it was held, " that the purchaser of dotal property, legally alienated, has nothing to do with- the investment of the proceeds,
and that the husband alone has the administration of the dowry. If he misapplies it, there is a lien of the wife on his property."
The law of Toro declared,-" The wife shall not be bound
in any thing, unless it shall be proved that the debt -was converfed to her benefit." In reference to this provision, the court
said, in the case of Damford v. Gros and Wife, above cited,
"Whether that restriction was attended with inconvenience is
not for us to consider. Our duty is to d6clare the law, not to
modify it.';. But that law being repealed, and another substituted in its place, declaring only "that the wife should nott2
bound as the surety of the husband," it is not to be supposed
that a citation of decisions made under the law of Toro by the
court, in cases 'where the wife was clearly the surety of the
husband, was designed essentially to modify the substituted
act. That, in many cases, as a matter of evidence, to charge
the wife, it may be necessary to prove that the loan was applied to her use, may be admitted. But, under the above arti-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

247

Bein et al.v. Heath.

cle, we think that such evidence cannot be required as a matter of law. The cases cited did not turn upon that ground.
But there is another view arising from the facts of this case,
which will now be considered.
This is a suit in chancery, and it is governed by the general
principles of such a proceeding. No new principle is introduced to affect the relation of the parties, or to modify rights
growing out of their contract.
It is a principle in chancery, that he who asks relief must
have -acted in good faith. The equitable powers of this court
can never be exerted in behalf of one who has acted fraudulently, or who by deceit or any unfair means has gained an advantage. To aid a party in such a case would make this court
the abetter of iniquity. And we suppose that this principle
applies to the case under consideration. A feme covert, acting
on her own responsibility, under the liberal provisions of the
Louisiana law, may act fraudulently, deceitfully, or inequitably,
so as to deprive her of any claim for relief. This results from
the capacity to make contracts with which the law invests her.
Heath, the agent, as has already been said, acted in good
faith. He proceeded deliberately, under legal advice, and- there
is no ground to charge him with unfairness or collusion against
Mrs. Bein. Assurances were made to him, in the presence of
his counsel, by Bein, acting in behalf of his wife, that the loan
was for her; that it .was bona fide, and without any concealment. Resting upon .hese and other assurances, the contract
of loan was made, the mortgage was executed by Mrs. Bein,
and the money paid by Heath to her, under the direction and
sanction of his counsel. Now if these representations were
false, and Heath was thereby induced to. part with the money,
can the complainant have a standing in equity?
Such a proceeding would be fatal, it is supposed, under the
law of Toro. For if it were admitted, that, to make the loan
binding on the wife, it must be proved to have inured to her
use, yet if, through the fraudulent intervention of the husband,
she negotiated the loan, giving to it her special sanction, equity
would not relieve her. A doctrine contrary to this would enable the wife to practise the grossest frauds with impunity.
For nearly five years after the loan, the interest was punctually paid by. Mrs. Bein, the house and lot were insured, and
the policy annually assigned for the benefit of the mortgagee.
These facts, connected with the representations which induced
Heath to loan the money, show, if the loan was in fact for the
husband, a deliberate fraud on her part. Under such circurfstances, we think the complainant cannot invoke the aid of a
court of chancery. She has acted against conscience, in pro-

248

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling

v. Harrison.

curing. the funds of the mortgagee. The law protects her, but
it gives her no license to commit a fraud against the rights of
an innocent party.
In the repeal of the law of Toro, and in substituting in its
place article 2412, the legislature gave the most unequivocal
evidence against the policy of that part of the repealed law
which.required proof to charge the wife that the money borrowed was applied to her use.
But in affirming the decree of the Circuit Court, we place
our opinion upon the unconscientious acts of the wife. The
decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

Jonx D. BowLiNG, PLAInTIF

IN EIRROR, V. JILSON P. HARRISoN.

Where the holder of a protested note and the party entitled to notice reside in the
same city or town, notice should be given to the party-entitkd to it, either verbally or in writing, or a written notice must be left at his dwelling-house or place of
business.
The term "holder" includes the bank at which the note is payable, and the notary who may hold the note as the agent of the owner for the purpose of making
demand and protest.
A memorandum upon the note, that the "1third indorser, J. P. Harrison, lives at
Vicksburg," was not sufficient to go-to the juiy as eidanc6 of an agreement upon iis part to receive notice through the post-office.
THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was a suit by the indorsee of a promissory vote against
the indorser Bowling, the indorsee, lived in, Maryland, and
Harrison, theindorser, in Mississippi.
The note was as follows:
$5,800.
Vicksburg, November, 26, 1836..
Two years after date, I promise to pay to the order of W.
M. Pinckard five thousand eight hundred dollars, for value received, negotiable and payable at the office Planters' -Bank,
Vicksburg.
A. G. CnEATHm
(Signed,)

