206

SUPREME COURT.
Perkins r. Fourniquet et al.

cessity for passing immediately ,a final decree annulling the
conveyances, and ordering the pfbpexty to be delivered to the
assignee of the bankrupt. The dbcree upon these matters
'might and. ught to have awaited the-mastero's repot; and
when the.accounts.were before the court, then every matter in
dispute might have been adjudicated in one final decree; and
.ifeither party thought himself aggrieved, the whole matter
would be brought here and decided i. 'one appeal, and the ob,
ject agd polidy of tlhp acts of Congress upon this subject carried into effect.
These remarks ae not made for the purpose of censuring
the learned judge by whom this decree was pronounced ;, but
in order to call the attention of the Cireuit Courts-to an incon.
renient practice, -into- which some of them have sometimes
fallen, and which is regarded by this court as altogether inqonsistent with the object and policy of the acts of Congress'
in relation to appeals, and at the same time needlesly burdensome and expensiive to the parties concerned, and eakalat4
by successive appeals, to produce great and unreasenable delays
insuitWO i c"hancery. For it may well happen; that, when the
accounts are taken, rnd reported by the master, this case may
again come here upon exceptions to his report, allowed.or disallowed by the Circuit Court, and thus- two appeals made necessary, when the matters in dispute could more conveniently
,and speedily, and with-less expense, have -been decided in one.
Order.
On consideration of the motion filed by Mr. Sergeant, of
counsel for the appellee, to dismiss this appeal, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against as in sup-.
port of the said motion, it is now here *ordered by this court,
that the said motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

'JOHN' PEBKINS,

APPRELLANi, v. EDiWAnD F. FOERnIQUEI AND
AND MARIN W. EWING AND WIFE.

WIFE,

"Where the Circuit Court d~creed that'.the complainants were entitled to two
sevenths of certain property, and referred the matter to a master in chancery
,to fake ad report an account of it, and then 'reserved all other matters in controversy between the parties until *thecoming in of the master's report, this was
:]ot such a final decree as can be appealed from to this court.

Tms.was an ,appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for thq District of Louisiana, the circumstances of which
are atatWti iii the opinion of the' court.

JANUARY TERM, 149.O

. W1

Perkin&v. Fourniquet et .ak

Mr. Heilderron and Mr. FendaU moved, to dismiss it,.fqr
want of jurisdiction, because the decree of. the Circuit Couit
was not a final decree. The motion. was opposed by Mr.
Mayer and Mr. Co e.
Mr. Henderson, in support of the moiont.
The record shows that the appeal taken in this tate is Ulpii
an inteilocUtory decree to account, and befor6 any aecolut taken or any final decree made.
The appellees move to-dismiss the case, for the reton, that
in this state of the record this e6utt has no jifisdiotion. Appeal only lies from a "final decree." Aet of 189M, see. 22;
9 Peters, 1-3 ; 2 Howatd, 64.
It seems this court, in the casb'of Michfta et al. t. (Giroa; 4
Howard, 534- 537, did entertain an appeal from an interlocutory
decree, but the fact, it is presumed, escaped notice; The like
omission is noticed as having occurred in: the case of the Wathington Bridge Co. v.Stewart; but the court say, had the de"
feet been noticed the appeal would have been~dimissed. 3
Howard, 424. The appeal in-this case, being
wiw
shoWn to
be prematurely taken, will of course be dismissed,
Mr. Majer anc. Mr. Coxe, against the motion, referred to
and commented upon the cases in4 Howard, 524 ; 3 Howard,
424; 3 Cranch, 179; 4 Cranch, 216; 10 Wheat. 503, in which
last the -court review the former cases.
Mr. Pendall, in suppert of the motion, titod and remarked
*Upon *the following authorities: - Judiciary Act, 24 SepteniUer, 17189, sec. 22, 1 Statutes, at-Large, 60 ; Canter v. Americaii
Insurance Company, 3 Peters, 318; Rutherf~rd v. Fisher, A
Dall. 22; Young v. Grundy, 6 CroAch, 51; Houston v. Moore,
-3'Wheat.433'; Gibbons o. Ogden, 6 ib. 448; The Palmyra,
10 ib. 5 2; Weston v. City of Charleston, 2 Peters, 464, 465;
*Boyle .v.Zacharie and Turner, 6 ih. 648; Brpwn v. Swann, 9
ib. 1-; Young et al. v. Smith, 15 ib. 287; McCollum v. Eager,
2 Howard, 61; Pepper et al. v. Dunlap, 5 ib. 51; Mayberry v.
Thompson, 5 ib. 126; Clagett v. Crawford, 12 Gill & Johns.

276.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This, like the case just decided, is a motion -to dismiss the
appeal, upon the groud, that the decree in-the Circuit Court
was not'a final one.
In the precediiig case, we have stated the construction which
this-court has given to the, acts of. 1789 and 1803 upon this
subject; and.we have stated it more filly than the case itself
required, 'in order that the Circuit Courts might distinctly un-

208

SUPREME COURT.
Perkins v. Fourniquet et a].

derstand the opinion entertained y this court, and to prevent,
infuture, appeals from decrees and.rders merely interlocutory
in their character. Appeals from decrees of this description appear to be a growing evil, imposing at every term useless labor
.upon the court, and subjecting the parties to unnecessary expense and delay. For, having, no jurisdiction in such cases,
they are not legally before the court upon the appeal, and must
of course be dismissed, without any decision upon the matters
in dispute.
The case now before us may be stated in a few words. It
is an appeal fromthe Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana; and it appears by the record that Harriet
3. Fourniquet and Mary T. Ewing are two of seven heirs and
representatives of Mary Perkins, who was the wife of the a.k
pellant, and who died about .twenty years before the filing of
this bill; that the appellees above named were the children of"
a former marriage, and with their respective husbands filed the
bill now before us, against the appellant, charging that during
the marriage of the appellant with their mother, there existed a
community of acquests -and gains in certain property, and praying that the appellant might beompelled to account and pay
over the amount due them as heirs of their mother. The
appellant denied, in his answer, that any community existed,
and the case- was proceeded in to hearing, when the Circuit
Court pa sed a decree declaring that the comhunity did exist,
and that the appellees, as heirs of their deceased mother, had a
right to recover two sevenths of all their mother's rights of
community which accrued during her marriage with the appellant ; and also two thirds of one seventh, as representatives of
so much of the interest of a deceased brother; and refeired the
matter to a master- in chancery, to take and report an account
of the acquests and gains; and prescribing fully and with proper precision the principles and manner in which the lands acquired were to be divided and the accounts taken; and the
decree concludes by reserving all other matters in controversy
between the parties until the coming in of the master's report.
This clearly is not a final decree in any respect. It "isthe
common and ordinary interlocutory order or decree passed by
courts of chancery in 'cases of this kind, and is absolutely necessary to prepare the case for a final hearing and final decree,
wherever the complainant is entitled to a partition of property
or an account. For the principles upon which an account is to
be stated by' the master, or a partition made, cannot be prescribed by the court until it first determines the rights of the
parties by an interlocutory order or decree; and the case cannot proceed to final hearing with6ut it. And the appellant is

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

209

Pulliam et al..v. Christian.

not injured by denying him an appeal in this stage of the proceedings. Because these interlocutory orders and decrees remain
under the control of the Circuit- Court, and subject to their revision, until the master's report comes in and is finally acted upon
by'the court, and the whole of the matters in controversy between the parties disposed of by a final decree. And upon an
appeal from that decree, every matter in dispute will be open to
the .parties in this court, and may all be heard and decided at
the same .time.
The decree in the case before us being interlocutory only,
the appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. And it appearing to
the court here that the decree of the said CircUit Court is an
interlocutory and not a final decree, it is therefore now here ordered .and decreed by this court, that this appeal be and the
same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SAXUFL

T. PULLIAX '4

OTHERS, A ELLANT'rS, v. PImnurw

TIAN, AssiGeq=. IN BANainircx op WiLLA.

OcHis.

ALLEz;

A decree of the Circuit Court, setting aide a deed made by a bankrupt before his
bankruptcy; directing the trustees under the deed to deliver over to the assignee
in bankruptcy all the property remaining undisposed of in their hands, but without deciding how far the trustees mightbe liable to the assignee for the proceeds
of sales previously made and paid away to the creditors; directing an account to
be taken of these last-mentioned sums in order to.a final decree, - is not iuch a
final decree ad can be appealed forom to this court.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Eastern Virginia.
The circumstances of the ease are stated in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Mr. Lyons, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr.Brooke and Mr. Myers, for the appellees.
It is not deemed necessary to insert the arguments of counsel upon the merits. of the case.
Mr. Lyons stated the case, and argued the preliminary question of jurisdiction, as follows.
Williarh Allen, of the city of Richmond, a merchant-tailor,
being very much embarrassed in his affairs, though he believed
18 *

