248

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling

v. Harrison.

curing. the funds of the mortgagee. The law protects her, but
it gives her no license to commit a fraud against the rights of
an innocent party.
In the repeal of the law of Toro, and in substituting in its
place article 2412, the legislature gave the most unequivocal
evidence against the policy of that part of the repealed law
which.required proof to charge the wife that the money borrowed was applied to her use.
But in affirming the decree of the Circuit Court, we place
our opinion upon the unconscientious acts of the wife. The
decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

Jonx D. BowLiNG, PLAInTIF

IN EIRROR, V. JILSON P. HARRISoN.

Where the holder of a protested note and the party entitled to notice reside in the
same city or town, notice should be given to the party-entitkd to it, either verbally or in writing, or a written notice must be left at his dwelling-house or place of
business.
The term "holder" includes the bank at which the note is payable, and the notary who may hold the note as the agent of the owner for the purpose of making
demand and protest.
A memorandum upon the note, that the "1third indorser, J. P. Harrison, lives at
Vicksburg," was not sufficient to go-to the juiy as eidanc6 of an agreement upon iis part to receive notice through the post-office.
THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was a suit by the indorsee of a promissory vote against
the indorser Bowling, the indorsee, lived in, Maryland, and
Harrison, theindorser, in Mississippi.
The note was as follows:
$5,800.
Vicksburg, November, 26, 1836..
Two years after date, I promise to pay to the order of W.
M. Pinckard five thousand eight hundred dollars, for value received, negotiable and payable at the office Planters' -Bank,
Vicksburg.
A. G. CnEATHm
(Signed,)

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

249

Bowling v. Harrison.

Indorsed: - "Pay Pinckaxd and Payne, or order. W. M.
"Pay 3. P.. Harrison, or order. Pinekard and
Pinckard."
Payne.". "Pay John D. Bowling, or order. J. P. Harrison."
At the foot of said iiote, and on the face thereof, was the
following memorandum: - "Third in dorser, J. P. Harrison,
lives -at Vicksburg."
At May term, 1840, suit was comnericed by Bowling against
Htarrison, and the'cause came on on for trial at May term, 1842.
The jury, under the instructions of the court, found a verdict
for the defendant, when the. following bill of exceptions'was
taklen by the couisel for the plaintiff.
Bill of Exceptions.
The plaintiff pro'ed, by Alexander H. Arthur, a witness,
who was sworn, that said memorandum was in the handwriting
of the defendant, J. P. Harrison, and thereupon said memorandum was read, to the jury.- The plaintiff then proved, by said
Arthur, that said note was deposited in the office of the Planters' Bank at Vicksburg,, Mississippi, on the 29th .day of November, 1838, for collection, and that on that day, the 29th day
of November, 1838, he demanded payment thereof of the. teller
of said bank,who refusedto pay the same; that on the same
day he deposited in the post-office at Vicksburg a written notice of the non-payment of said note, directed to said defendaht, Jilson P. Harrison, informing him of the non-payment of
said note. The said witness further stated, that he acted as the
agent of the Planters' Bank in making demand of payment, _
and giving notice "f non-payment of said note. Said witness
further stated, that Jilson P. Harrison, the defendant, lived in
the town ot Vicksburg, in which is and was the office of the
Planters' Bank, when the note sued on was payable at.the date
pf the nmturity of said note. That for several years prior to
the maturity of said note, it had been the usage of the Plant•ers'.Bank of Vicksburg to have notice served personally upon
the indorsers resident in Vicksburg, unless there was a: memoraadiun on ttie note appointing s6me place at which notice
would be received; and if there wbs a mem6rahdum on the
note designating a place where notice was to be served, then
the notice was left at such place. That.this usage applied to
notes discounted or deposited in bank for collection. That
the language of these agreements was generally as follows: "Indorser will receive-notice at Vicksburg post-office," &c.,
though sometimes they were in the language of the one attached to the note sued on; that seeing the defendant's name
written at the foot of this note sued on, he supposed, it to be
an undertakingon his part to receive notice through the Vicks-

250

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling v. Harrison.

burg post-office accordifig to the usage of the bank, and.accordingly gave him notice of the non-payment of the note, by-depositing the same in the Vicksburg post-office, addressed to him
at Vicksburg, and that he gave no -other notice of the nonpayment of the note to defendant. This -being all the evidence in the cause, the court instructed the jury, that to
charge an indorser, if he lived in the town in which the note
was made payable, the notice must be personal, unless he had
agreed to receive it elsewhere, or unless, by the custom and
usage of the bank at which the note is made payable, notice of
non-payment was left at the post-office. That the memorandum attached to the note sued on was not a sufficient agreement to receive notice at the post-office, qnd dispense with personal service on the indorser. The court further instructed the
jury, that the custom and usage of the bank, as proved in this
case" by the witness, Arthur, was not sufficient to dispense with
personal notice. To Which opinion of the court, the plaintiff,
by his attorney, excepted before the jury retired from the box,
and presented this his bill of exceptions, and prays that the
same be signed, sealed, enrolled, and made a part of the record
iii this cause, which is done accordingly.
J. MOKn ,..Y. [sE..]
Upon this exception the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Jones,for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Crittendenand Mr. Fendall,for the defendant.
Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff in erzor.
The single objection, and the only question raised in the
court below,.turned on the point of diligence in the matter of
serving the notice on defendant.
Upon this evidence, the court below delivered the following
instructions to the jury: 1. "That to charge an indorser, if he lived in the town
where the note was payable, the notice must be personal, unless
he had agreed to receive it. elsewhere; or unless, by the custom and usage of the bank where the note was payable, notice'
was left at the post-office."
2. "1That the memorandum attached to the note in this
case was not a sufficient agreement to receive notice at the
post-office, and to dispense with personal service on the indorser; and that the custom and usage of. the bank, as
proved in this -case, was not sufficient to dispense with personal notice."
Against these instructions the plaintiff contends, 1. That the rule, allowing service of the notice throiugh the

JANUAR'_" TERM, 1848.

251

Bowling v. Harrison.

post-office, is quite erroneously enunciated in the first of said.
instructions ;.which vitiates that mode of service, because
the indorser lived in the same town.where 'the note was payable. He insists, that, as the indorser and indorsee had their
separate residences in different towns and States, the precise
relations betweeir the parties existed, and all' the circumstances
concurred, which were proper and necessary to bring the case
within the.very terms of the -ruleallowingservice, of the notice
through the post-office; that the post-office at Vicksburg,'
where the indorser lived, was the'proper and only post-office
to which the notice could have been sent for delivery, within
the terms of the rule-; and that the circumstance of the bank
where the note was payable happening to be situate in the*same
town was utterly immaterial.
2. Had it beell necessary (and we hold it clearly urinecessa-,
ry) to invoke the *aforesaid memorandum and the bank u'*agein support of the notice through the post-office iii-his rase,
then we should insist tfiat the aforesaid memorandum, with
the aforesaid evidence of" the bank custom and usage, was sufficient and* proper to be left to the jury as evidence, to be
weighed and considered by them, of the defendant's consent to
waive personal service of the notice, and to receive it through
the post-office ; consequently, that' such evidence was far too
peremptorily ruled out, and the instructions so ruling it out
trenched very far -within the true boundaries of the jury's
province and function.
Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant in error, said that it was
not proved where the plqintiff lived ; but the place of his residence was a matter of ifo .consequence. The rule as to par-ties referred to the parties to the note, and not parties to the
suit.
For the insutfficiency of the notice, he referred to Bank of
Columbia v. Lawrence, 1 Peters, 583; Williams v. Bank of
the United States, 2 ib. 101 ; Wilcox, &c. v. McNutt, Howard, Miss.,Rep. 776; 6 ib. 615; Ireland v. Rip, 10 'Johns.
490 ; 11 ib. 231 ; Smedes v. Utica Bank, 20 ib. 372; 7 Howard,' Miss. Rep. 565.
With respect to the rule having been dispensed with by
agreement of parties, itis evident that the person who gave
the notice was misled. He supposed that. it was an agreement
that it should be sent'through the post-office; but it cannot be
so construed, nor.would a jury be justifiable in putting such a'
construction upon it. The court, therefore; was right in withholding the evidence from the jury. '

S2

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling vt. Harriso!.

Mr. Fendall,on the same side.
In this case, two questions 'are presented by the record. The
first is, Was the. notice sufficient in law? The second is, If
the notice was not sufficient in lawi is it made sufficient by any
lawful usage, or by any agreement between the parties?
I As to the first question-: -It is not denied, on the other side,
that where the party entitled to notice and the holder reside in
the same place, notice must either be -given to the party entitled- to it petsonally; or must be left at his dwelling or place of
business.. But, it is said, in this case, Bowling, the holder, resided in Marylhnd, and Harrison, the party entitled to notice,
at Vicksburg.; and that, the parties, thus residing in different
*places, the notice sent through the post-office is sufficient.
It is a good. answer to this, that- the record does not show
that Bowling and Harrison did reside at ilifferent places. It describes Bowling as a "citizen of the State of Maryland," which
he may have been, and yet have been residing at Vicksburg
when the note was dishonored. The judicial presumption arising from the record is, that he was then residing at VickaUrg.
A. fact so important, according to the argument on the other
i#de, as his residence at a different place, and so capable of being proved,, would, it may be fairly supposed, have been proved,
if it existed.
-But another and a conclusive answer is, that the- Planters'
Bank, the agent for collecting the note, was in Vicksburg, the
place where Harrison resided: The note was made payable at
the Planters'^ Bank at Vicksburg, where it was the duty of the
holder to be, and demand payment. He was there, either personally or by his agent, who resided in Vicksburg, and did demand payment at the bank. The notice given by the collecting bank, being an act within the scope. of its agency, was the
act of Bowling, the holder of the paper. "For all the 'Purposes of thelaw, the agent or banker is, in such cases, treated
as substantially a distinct and independent holder. Indeed,
upon any other ground, it would be impracticable for the real
holder, in many cases, to make due presentment, and give iue
notice of the dishQnor of the note, so as to-charge the antece-.
dent indorsers, especially if he lived at a distance from the placb
where the presentment and dishonor took place." Story on
Promissory Notes, § 326, 2d ed.
The general rule on the subject 6f notice is so -well settlec,that, even were it nierely arbitrary, public policy-and commearcial convenience requite that it should be strictly observed.
But -it is not arbitrary. It rests on a sound principle. . "'The
object of the notice is to afford an opportunity to the drawer
to obtain security from.those persons to whom they are enti-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

253

Bowling v. Hazrison.

tled to resort for indemnity.' .3 Kent's Comm. 107 (2a ed.).
It follows, as a corollary, to this proposition, that the-notice.
should be early, and either personal to the partyentitled to it,
or sent, to the place where he. is most likely to receive it
promptly. As he is presumed to be habitually at his dwelling
and place of business, and miay_:not go or send regularly to the
post-office, a notice left at-.0ne or the other of the former
places is more likely to reach him, and to reach him promptly,
than when left at the post-dffice. Hence the general rule, that.
the notice must either be .personal, or be left at-the dwelling or
place of business of. the party: noticed. "The law," says
Judge Story, " requires that the, notice should be either personal, or at the domicile'or at the place of business of the indorser, so that it may reach hin on the very day on which he
is entitled to notice." I Story on Promissory Notes, § 322. So
far is the doctrine carried in England, that notice must be
given at the. earliest moment, "omissis omnibus aliis negotiis," and so as, if.practicable, to be actuall received, that,
"in some cases where 'the indorser's residence is unknown, but
he is known to resort during certain hours at a certain place,
as at' the Royal Exchange, the Bank of England, Corn Exchange, or any public office, the notice ought 'to be given during those hours." Chitty on Bills, 516 (8th Am. edit., ch. 10).
Where the party noticing and, the "partynoticed reside in different places, the law allows the notice to be sent by post; but
one reason of this'is, that, in many cases, the notice will be
sooner received by post than if otherwise conveyed. The
adjudged sufficiency of a notice sent through a letter-carrier or
penny-post; though ih. parties reside in the same city or town,:
has been sometimes -treated as a relaxation of the rule, or an
exceptioA to it. It is so, however, only apparently; the letter-:
carrier or peiny-post being treated merely as an agent or messenger for delivering the notice. Story on Promissory Notes,
'

§ 323.
The general principle is not affected in its application to
this case by the, authorities cited on the other side. In the
Bank of Columbia v; Lawrence, 1 Peters, 584, the question
was as to the sufficiency of a notice sent by mail to a person
residing in a place different from that where the demand was
made. In Williarhs v. The Bank of the United States, 2 Peters,
101, the question was, whether, notice left, under certain circumstances, at the house of a neighbour of the party noticed,
was sufficient. In Miller v. Hackley, 5 Johns. 375, the parties
resided in different places. So, too, in Munn v. Baldwin,
6 Mass. 316,.ii which it was held that notice sent by mail was
sufficient; and that putting a notice in the post-office is convoL. V.
22

2SUpREME

COURT.
Bowling v. Harrison.

clusive evidence of notice. So, too, in Cuyler v. N-ellis, 4 Wend.
398, the parties resided in different places ; and there being
two post-offices in the place where the noticed party resided,
having distinct designations, it was held that a notice sent by
mail, and directed to him merely at.the place where he resided,
was insufficient. The rule is precisely stated in the passage
cited yesterday from Bayley on Bills, 276,277 (2d Am. edit.):"The sufficiency of a notice sent by the mail is well established in the United States, where the person to be charged
resides in a different town or place from that in which the *.presentment is made. But where he resides in the same place, a,
notice to him -nust be persdnal, or left at his residence or place
of business." In many of the cases cited to this passage by
the editor, the reas9ning of the court substantially sustains
the principle as stated in the text; and one of them, that of
Smedes v.Utica Bank, 20 Johns. 381, is conceded to do -so.
In this case, it is observable that the court cite Ireland v. Kip$
10 Johns. 382, as affirming the rule in the terms stated in Bayley. The citation is from the reporter's -marginal statement.
The words of the court's opinion are different. The case came
again before the same court; and they speak of the rule as
applying "where the parties reside in the same city or place.P
Ireland v. Kip, 11 Johns. 232. Thus it appears that in this
case, as reported in 10 Johnson, the reporter correctly apprehended the court, and that the court considered the rule requiring notice to be personal, or left at the dwelling, &c.,
"where the parties reside in the same city or place," as being
only another-form of the rule requiring the notice to be personal or left at the dwelling, &c., where the party noticed resides in the same place where the presentment is made. And
so Judge Story is to be understood in his statement of the rule.
Story on Promissory Notes, § 312 (2d edit:). Among the
authorities cited by that learned judge is the passage in Bayley to which we have referred. ,In the case of Burrows et al.
v. Hannegan, 1 McLean, 310, cited by Judge Story, the question was as to the sufficiency -of the demand. But the remarks
of 'the court are equally applicable to the notice. In the
case of the Louisiana State Bank v. Rowel et al., 18 La. Rep.
508, it was held, that, Where the indorser lived within three
miles of the post-office, notice put there was not sufficient. In
that case the brief and-lucid exposition given by the court of
the law merchant on the. subject of notice, taken in connection
with Story on Promissory Notes, as to the legal identity of
the noticing party with his agent, fully sustains the rule as we
assert it. In-Porter v. Boyle et al., 8 La. Rep. 170, where the
indorser resided in a.fauxbourg of New Orleans, notice of

JANiUARLY TERM,, 1848.25
Bowling V. Harrison.

,protest addressed to him and deposited in the city post-office
was held to be insufficient, without showing reasonable diligence in endeavouring to give him personal notice, Though
the questio now before the court is admitted to be one of general commecial law, unaffected.by any local law of Mississippi, the cases of Wilcox & Fearn v. McNutt, 2 Howard,
Miss. R.'776, Patrick . Beazley, 6 Howard, Miss. R. 609;
and Hogatt v. Bingaman, 7 Howard, Miss. R. 568, which were
cited yesterday, have all the weight which elaborate investigation, able reasoning, and consistent adjudication can give to
authority. The first of them' appears to have been decided
before the note in controversy was due. The decision of the
highest court in the State had settled tle law, so far as such a
decision could settle a question not of local jurisprudence' . It
may be properly referred to here as an impressive, but in this
instance disregarded, caution to holders of negotiable paper.
" In the last of the three Mississippi cases, 'the principle of the
two preceding decisions was reaffirmed; the counsel for the
holder of the paper conceding, as a rule beyond denial, that if
parties live in the same town, or have a place of business
therein, the notice must be personal, or,at the dwelling-hou'se
or place of business; and the court say, that notice of the der
mand and protest of negotiable paper cannot be given through
the post-offi.e, unless the same is to be transmitted by mail.
The court here iubstantially reassert, the general principle,
that the mail is a legal instrument of notice in excepted cases
only. The holder is not required to .give personal notice or to
leave it af the dwelling, &c., where the party to be charged
lives at a distance ; -but if he lives in the- place where the.
demand is made, it is as easy to take the notice to him-personally, or to his dwelling, &c., as to take it to the post-office ; and
in such case the geheral rule prevails.
As to the second question: This point, though not pressed in argument, has not been
abandoned.
The general rule as to usage is, that usage prevails only
where the law is silent. Chitty on Bills, 56 (8th Am. edit.).
In one of the Mississippi cases which we have cited, the court
rebuke the attempts of a few notaries to set up their particular
practice as. a usage. Wilcox & Feam v. McNutt, 2 Howard,
Miss. R. 784.
.But in this case the practice of the Planters' Bank in giving
notices was proved, to be conformable to law. The witness
says, "that, for several years prior to the maturity of said
note, it had been the usage Qf. the Planters' Bank of Vicksburg to have notice, served personally upon the--indorsers resi-

256

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling v. Harrisan.

dent in Vicksburg, unless there was a memorandum on the
note appointing some place at which notice would be received."
In this case, at the foot of the note were written, in the handwriting of the defendant, the words, "1Third indorser, J. P.
Harrison, lives at Vicksburg." This unsigned memorandum-the
witness "suposed to be an undertaking on his part to receive
notice through the Vicksburg post-office," &c. The -natural
inference from the'memorandum is exactly the reverse, namely,
that the indorser, having designated the place of his residence
and there stopped, expected, should the note be dishonored;
the legal incident to follow of notice to himself lprsonally, oi
left at his dwelling or place of business. The supposition of
the witness, who appears to have been the notary employed to
protest, the note, -was a mere guess, and a very wild one. It
was not evidence. Had there been any evidence of an agreement on the part of Harrison to waive his legal right to per.sonal notice, and to receive notice through the post-office, the
court, we admit, ought to have let it go to the jury, whose
province it is to determine on the sufficiency of evidence.
But here there was no evidence of such an agreement, and the
court, in substance, sb told, .and properly told, the jury. Itwas
clearly the province of the court to determine the legal import
of the written memorandum.
Mr. Jones, in reply and conclusion, insisted that the rule
was, that, if the parties lived in the sfme town, the notice niust
be personal; but if in different towns, the post-office was the
proper medium. 1 iPeters, 583; 5 Johns. 584; 6 Mass. R. 315;
4 Wendell, 398, where all the cases are examined., Either
Bowling or the bank must be considered as the holder of the
note. If Bowling was the holder, he was entitled to have the
note sent to him in Maryland, upon its non-payment, and it
would then become his duty to notify the indorser, HarriGon,
through the post-office. But instead of this, he, through-.his
agent, placed the notice at once in the post-office at Vicksburg.
If the bank was the holder, then the case comes under the
rule which requires the holder to notify the last indorser, who
is then to notify the preceding one, and so on. The bank
should, therefore, in this case, also have sent a notice to Bowling in Maryland, whose duty would have been to notify Harrison through the post-office. But why not take a short cut?.
It is said that Bowling's residence is not proved. But the
declaration avers it, and it is too late now to doubt it.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the-opinion of the court.
The first assignment of error in this case is to the instruc-

JAN!UARY TERM, 1848.

2i7

Bowling v. Harrison.

tion given by the court to the jury, " That, to charge an indorser if he lived in the town in which the note was made
payable, the notice must be personal, unless he had agreed to
receive it elsewhere, or, unless, by custom and usage of the
bank at, which the note is payable, the notice of non-payment
was left at'the post-offiCe."
As the only question on the trial of the cause was the suf.
ficiency of notice left at the post-office at Vicksburg to charge
an indorser. residing there, and not whether a copy left at his
dwelling-house or place of business would be proper, the
phrase "personal notice" was evidently intended and understood to include the latter. in opposition to the former. This
instruction is, therefore, not objected to on the ground of any
inaccuracy of expression on that*point. But the iomplaint is,
that the rule of law on this subject was erroneously enunciated by the court; in stating the conditions under which a per.
sonal service of notice on an indorser is required to be "resi .
dence in the town where the note was made payable."
It is true, the terms in which the rule of law on that subject
isusually stated differ from those used by the court'.on this
occasion. .InWilliams v. United States Bank,. 2 Peters, 101,
it~is thus stated by this court: -" If the -partiesreside in the
same city or town,, the indorser must be personally noticed
of the dishonor of the bill or note, either verbally or in writing,
or a written notice must be left at his dwelling-house or place
of business.."
,Mr. Justice Stoiry (Story on- Bills, § 312) stptes the rule in
these words:-" Where the party entitled to notice and the
holder reside in the'same town or city, the general rule is, that
the notice should be given to the party entitled to it, either
persoially, or at his domicile or place of business."-"
The indorsee or owner of the note in this case resided in
Maryland, and the indorser in Vicksburg; and it is contended
that, as they are the only parties, and do not reside in the same
.plhce, the rule is inapplicable to the case.
But we are of opinion, that, whether we regard the reasons
uponwhich this rule is founded, or a correct construction of
the terms in which it is usually stated, the instruction given
by the court below was correct, and not such as to mislead the
jury in the application of the law to the circumstanc~p of the
case before them.
The best evidence of notice is proof of personal service on'
the party to be affected by it, or by leaving a copy at his dwelling. Depositing a notice in the post-office affords but presumptive evidence of its reception, and is permitted to be substituted for the former only where the latter would be too
2*

258

SUPREME COURT.
Bowling v. Harrison.

inconvenient or expensive.. Hence, when the convenience of
the public post is not needed for the purpose of tiansmission
or conveyance, there is no reason for. its use, or for waiving
the more stringent and certain evidence of notice; and therefore, in the practical application of the rule, the relative position
of the person giving the notice and the party receiving it forms
the 6nly criterion of the necessity for relaxing it.
A very'large portion ,of the commercial paper used in this
country is similar to that which is the subject of the present
suit. They are notes made payable at a certain bank. The
last indorsee or ownar transmits it to that bank for collection;
if- funds are not deposited there to meet it when due, it is
handed to a notary or agent of the bank, who makes demand
and protest, and gives notice of its -dishonor to the indorsers;
if they live in the same town or city where the bank is situated and the demand made, and ,"where the note was payable,"
he serves it personally, or at their residence or place of business ; if they live at a distance, so that such a service would be
inconvenient and expensive, he sends the notice by mail to the
nearest post-office, or such other place as may have been designated by the party.on whom it is -to, be served. This is and
has been the daily practice and construction of the rule in
question over the whole country, and the only- one consnuant
with reason.
This practical application of the rule is correctly stated by
the court in their instruction to the jury as connected with the
circumstances of the case before them, and also within its
terms as it is usually stated in the books. The term "holder"
is properly applied to the person having possession of the paper
and making the demand, whether. in his own right or as agent
for another. The Planters' Bank of Vicksburg Were the
" holders" of this note for collection, and were -bound to give
notice to all the indorsers. (Smedes v. The Utica Bank,
20 Johns. 372.)
The notary, also, who held the note as
agent of the owner for the purpose -of making demand and
protest, may be prcperly considered as the "holder" within
the letter and spirit of th~s rule. On a careful examination of
the very numerous cases in the books in which the rule under
consideration has been enunciated-in the terms- above stated,
they will be found not essentially to differ from the present in
their circumstances. In some instances, also, the rule'has bean
stated in the terms used-by the court below. (See Bayley on

Bills.)
An exception is taken, also, to tile instruction of the court, "That the memorandum attached, to the note in this case was
not a sufficient agreement to receive notice at the post-office,

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

259

Bowling .v. Harrison.

and to dispense .with personal notice on the indorser; and that
the custom and usage of the bank as proved in this case,,were
not sufficient to dispenge with pers6nal notice."
The memorandum is in the following words: - Third indorser, J. P. Harrison, lives at Vicksburg." The only direct
evidence of usage was, "that, for several years prior to the maturity of said note, it had been the usage of the Planters' Bank
of Vicksburg to have notice served personally upon the indorsers! resident in Vicksburg, unless there was a memorandum on
the note desighating a place where notice was to be served;
tten the notice was left at such place." This is, in fact, no
usage peculiar to Vicksburg, but the general rule of commercial law. The iotary appears" to have mistaken this memorandum for.an agreement to receive notice at the Vicksburg postoffice; and, however willing to excuse himself, he has not ventured to swear directly that there was any known usage to justify this construction, or rather misconstruction, of this memorandum. : The coUnsel for plaintiff in error complain that the
court did not submit it to the jury to say whether an'inference
might not be drawn, from some equivocal or obscure expressions of the witness, that there was such a usage.
It is true, the jury are the proper judges of the credibility
and weight of testimony, but the court should not instruct
them to presume or infer important facts, unless there be testimony which, if believed, would justify such a conclusion.
It is of the utmost importance to commercial transactions,
that the rules of law on the subject of notice which is to charge
an indorser be stableand certain, and not suffered to fluctdate
and vary with the notions or caprice of banking corporations
or village notaries. A usage, to be binding, should be definite,
uniform, and well known. It should be established by clear.
and satisfactory evidence, so that it may be justly presumed
that the parties had referefice to it in making their contract.
Every day's experience shows, that notaries, in many places,
.fall into loose ways f performing their duties, either through
negligence or ignorance; and courts should be cautious how
they encourage juries to presiame usages and customs contrary
to the settled rules of law, in onder to sanction the mistakes or
misconceptions of careless or ihcompetent officers. It was as
easy to have written the memorandum on this note, "The indorser, J. P. Harri*soni, agrees to receive notice at the Vicksburg
post-office," as to write it "n its present form;- and one can
hardly conceive of the possibility of a well-known and established usage, thaf a written memorandum should be .constried
without any regard io its terms or plafn meaning.- Those who
affirm the' existence of such a strange usage should be .held to

260

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al:v. Wilson.

strict proof of it; and the court were right in not submitting
it to the jury to infer such an improbable and unreasonable
custom, by forced or astute' construction of equivocal expressions from a willing witness.
Let the judgment be affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern.
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered- and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the. said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JOHN 'C.

SHEPPARD

AND

OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS

IN

ERROR,

V. JOHN

WILSON.
The statutes of Iowa provide a mode for taking.bills of exceptions, by directing that
they shall be tendered to the judge for his signature during the progress of the
tria, although judges may, and often do, sign bills of exception, nunc pro tunc,
after the trial.
"
Such is also the English practice under the Statute of Westminster 2, and such is
the practice recognized by this court.
Therefore, where a bill of exceptions was signed twoyears after the trial, the Supreme Court of Iowa were right in striking it out of' the record.
Where, after verdict, a motion was made for a new trial, which was held under a
continuance, and an entry was afterwards made that the motion was overruled,
and judgment entered on the verdict, but, at the time of such entry and judgment, the court was not legally in session, it was no error in the court, at a sub
sequent and regular term, to treat the entry thus irregularly made as a nullity, to
decide the motion,-and enter up judgment according to the verdict.
The difference between this case and that of the Bank of the United States v. Moss
(6 Howard, 31) pointed out.
A continuance, relating back, may bo entered at any time, to effect the purposes
of justice.

THIS cause was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa.
It was an action commenced in the District Court of Scott
county, in .the Territory of Iowa, by Wilson against Sheppard
and others, for a breach of a contract for hiring a steamboat.
It is not necessary to state the facts in the case, or any other
circunftances than those upon which the decision of this court
turned.
On the 7th of October, 1841, the cause came on for trial in
the District Court of Scott county, when the jury found- a verdict for the plaintiff; and assessed his damages at $ 1,837.50.
A bill of 'exceptions, containing a recapitulation of the evi-

