.JANUARY TERM, 1848.

at

The Bank of-the United States v. Moss et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec
ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southerr-District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, .itis now here oydered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit. Court in
this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacids de
7M0.

T k 'PH

Tsns,
DiascToRs, AND CoMPu

OF THE BANK oF TIE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, .v.HENRY K. Moss, WILTZA H. SHELTON, ROpERT A. PATfItcK, AND CHARLES LYNCH,
DEFENDANTS.

'Where a declaration'contained special counts upon promissory notes, and also the
common money counts, although the jurisdiction of the court was not apparent'
upon the special counts, yet the money counts, sustained by evidence, might have
been sufficient to sustain it; and this court will presume such evidence to have
been given if the record is silent upon the subject, and if no bjection was made
to the jurisdiction in the progress of the trial.
Judgment having been rendered for the plaintifi , it was not-competent for the court
below to strike out th6 judgment at the next .term, on the ground of supposed
wat of jurisdiction.
The power of a court over its records and judgments examined and stated.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the. Southern. District of
Mississippi.
In 1838, the two following notes were executed, viz. :
10,715

.

Brandon, March 17th, 1838.

Nine months after 1st April, 1838, we, or either of us, promise to pay to Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., or order, for value received,
ten thousand seven hundred and fifteen '
dollars, payable and
negotiable at the Commercial .Bank in Natchez.
H. K. Moss,
W. H. SHELTON, Sec'ty.
R. A. PATRICK,
CQgAREs LyNCH.
Indorsed, "Briggs, Lacoste, & Co."

$ 10, 8 7 6 1%.

Brandon,March 17th, 1838.
'Eleven months after 1st April, 1838, we, or either of us,
promise to pay to Briggs, Lacoste & Co., or order, for value re-

32

SUPREME COURT.
The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

ceived, ten thousand eight hundred and seventy-six -% dollars,
payable and negotiable at the Commercial Bank in Natchez.
(Signed)
H. K. Moss,
W. H. SHELTON,

Sec'ty.

R. A. PATRICK,
CHARLES LYNcH.
Indorsed, "Brigg s , Lacoste, & Co."
In March, 1840, the Bank of. the United States brought
suit, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, against Henry K. Moss, William H.
Shelton, Robert A. Patrick, Charles Lynch, and Charles A. La6oste. On the same day, a declaration was filed, consisting of
five counts, in which all the defendants were averred to be citizens of Mississippi. The first two coints were upon the notes,
each count being upon one note. In the first count, the indorsement is thus averred: - " And the said Charles A. Lacoste, together with Charles Briggs and Louis Hermann, who
are not sued in this action, not being citizens of this State,. by
the name and style of Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., being partners in
trade, using the name and style of Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., to
whom or to whose order the payment of the sum of money.
in the said note," &c.; and in the second count, upon the other note, it is thus stated: - "And then and there delivered the
same to said Briggs, Lacoste, & Co.; and the said Briggs, Lacoste, & Co, of which firm the said .defendant, Charles A. Lacoste, is a partner, the rest not being citi.ens of this State, to
whom or to whose order the payment of the sum of money in
the said note specified was by the same to be made, after the
making of the said note, and before the payment of the said
sumn of money therein specified, to wit, on the dayand year
last aforesaid, and at the district aforesaid, indorsed the same
note in writing, by the name of Briggs, Lacoste, & Co.," &c.
The other three counts in the declaration were the common
money counts.
The defendants all appeared, and pleaded the general issue.
At November term, 1841, on motion of the plaintiffs' attorney, the suit was discontinued as to Lacoste, and a jury, being impaanelled, found a verdict for the plaintiffs, assessing
the damages at $ 26,485.66, for which siin judgment was entered up.
At May term, 1841, the defendants, by their counsel, moved
the court to set aside the verdict and judglment, rendered in the
cause, because the court had not jurisdiction, which motion
was sustained. The verdict and judgment were set aside, and
the case dismissed for want of jurisdiction, to which decision
the plaintiffs filed the following bill. of exceptions:

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

8

The Bank of th. United State* * Mesa et aL

"Be it remembered,,that at the present term of this court, the
defendants in the above case came into court and moved the
court to set aside the verdict and judgment in this case rendered at the last term of this court, and to dismiss the suit for
want of jurisdiction of the court; which motion is in the words
and figures following :.-I The defendants'by their attorney
move the court to set aside the verdict and judgment rendered
in this cause, and to dismiss the suit, because the court had not
jurisdiction of the cause.' And thereupon came the plaintiffs
and objected to said motion, but the. court, without. any evidence other than the record in said cause, sustained the said
defendants' motions and ordered said verdict and judgment rendered in this case at the last term of this court to be set aside,
and the suit dismissed; to which opinion of the court in sustaining said motion, and setting aside said verdict and jadgment, and dismissing said suit, the plaintiffs by their counsel
except, and pray that this their bill of exceptions be signed,
sealed, enrolled, and made a part of the record in this cause,
which is done accordingly.
"J. MCKILEY. [sEAL.]"
Upon which exception, the cause came up to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. G. M. Wlzarton and Mr.
Sergeant,for the plaintiffs in error, no counsel appearing for the
defendants in error.
The error assigned is, that the court below erred in setting
aside, at May term, 1842, the judgment rendered at November
term, 1841, in favor of the plaintiff.
The judgment was set aside at a term--subsequent to that at
which it was rendered ; aud this was done for alleged want of
jurisdiction in the court below over the cause of action. The
derect of jurisdiction was alleged to arise from the first count
of the narration not averring that one of the payees and indorsers of the note, Lacoste, was a citizen of some other State
than Mississippi.
That the discontinuance of the suit as to Lacoste was not
erroneous, and was a local prictice sanctioned by this court,
they cited McAfee v. Doremus, 5 How. 53. See How. &
Hutch. Miss. Dig. 596, for the law of that State. The remaining three counts in the narration were the common mbney
counts, and in them there was no pretence of error.
The first question arising upon the record was as to the
power of the Circuit Court to set aside its former judgment.
They contended -that it was a general rule, that the same court
which enters up a judgment cannot set-it aside, at a subsequent

34

SUPREME COURT.
Thj'Bank of the United States r. Moss et al.

term, for errors of law. This would be tantamount to the
power of retersing its own judgment.
The power of setting aside or opening judgments for fraud,
irregularity, or misprision df the clerk, they asserted to be a different power.
As authority for their view of the frst question, they cited
and relied upon the following cases :-In the courts of the United States,- Assessors of Medford
v.Dorsey, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 433; The Avery, 2 Gall. 386;
Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Jackson v. Ashton, 10
Peters, 480. Ex parte Crenshaw, 15 Peters, 119, they said was
not a decision the other way, because there the Supreme Court
merely revoked its mandate, and declared' its former judgment
a nullity, as the cause had never been before it. Washington
Bridge Co. . Stewart, 3 'How. 413; Jenkins v. Eldridge, 1"
Woodb. & Minot, 61, were also cited.
In the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, - Catlin v. Robinson, 2 Watts, 373 ; Stephens v. Cowan,. 6 ib. 511 ; Gallup v.
Reynolds, 8 ib. 424.
In New York, - Barheydt *. Adams, 1 Wend. 101 ; Soulden v. Cook, 4 ib. "217.
In North Carolina, -Anon., 2 Haywood, 73; S. C., Taylor,
146; Tb. 239; Bender v. Asken, 2 Dever. 149; Skinner v.
Moore, 2 Dev. & Bat. 138.
The like general rule is settled in England. During the
same term, judgments are. amendable at common law, -being
then in paper, infieri, in the breast of the court. Afterwardsthey are only amendable under the Statutes of Amendmhents or'
Jeofails. See 2 Tidd's Pr. 975; 2 Archb. P- 243 ; Tb. 202,
203, as to setting aside judgments for irregula .y.'
If courts were not held strictly to the rule contendec for,
what would become of arts imposing limitations on writs of
error, or of those protecting purchasers at sheriffs' sales ?
The second question was this: - Was the judgment entered
at November term, 1841, void or irregular, because the foreign
citizenship of Lacoste was not alleged in the first count? They
contended that this was not the case; it was merely matter assignable as error, upon a writ of error.
They cited, on this point, McCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat.
192; Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Peters, 449 ; Kemp
v. Kennedy, 5 Craunch, 185; Skillen v.May, 6 ib. 267.
The courts of the United States are courts of limited, but
not of inferior jurisdiction. Their judgments, until reversed
on error, are conclusive between parties and privies.
Under this head, they further contended that there was not
*necessarily a defect of jurisdictionf in the Circuit Court over the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

35

The Bank of the United States v. Moss et aL.

first two counts, .ecause it did not appear but that Lacoste was
a citizen of another State when the note was indorsed. If he
were so then, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court would not
be taken away, although, at the time of the bringing of the
present suit, he had become a citizen of Mississippi. The 11th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 would be fully satisfied
by this constructidn. The right of the assignee of a chose in
action to sue in the federal court could not be taken away
by his assignor subsequently becoming a citizen of the. same
State with the defendant.
In the third place, they argued, that, under the statute law
of Mississippi governing the case, the judgment of November
term, 1841, was'not erroneous, and that consequently, on a
writ of error, this court would not have reversed the judgment.
Although by the common law, where, in a civil suit, one count
is good and the others bad, and othere is a general finding,
judgmenit will be arrested, yet, by the statute law of Mississippi, a different rule prevails. They referred to the 12th seetion of the act of 1820. (Hpw. & Hutch. Dig. 591.) 'The
defendant must apply to the court to instruct the jury to disregard the faulty count.
They contended that this statute was binding upon the Circuit Court of the United States for Mississippi. The act of
Congress of May 19, 1828 (4 Statutes at Large, 218), piovides
that the "formsand modes of proceeding then used in the highest
courts of original and general jurisdiction in the States admitted into the Union since 1789 shall be the rules of the United
States courts held in those States, subject to alterations and additions by said United States courts, or by the Supreme Court
of the United States. The statute of Mississippi was passed
eight years before this act of Congress. That State was admitted into the Union in 1817.
Put, further than this, the Circuit.Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Mississippi adopted the practice
and proceedings of the State courts by their printed Rules of
1839. See section 30-of those Rules.
This prbvision of the act of 1820 binds the United States
courts in Mississippi, as one- of the ,"forms and modes of proceeding" in that State. In support of this, they cited United
States v. Boyd, I5 Peters, 187 ; McNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9
Gwin v. Breedlove, ib. 29.
For the distinction betweenfinal and mesneprocess, as hearing upon this head, they cited Bronson v. Kinzie, '1 How. 311;
McCracken v. Hayward, 2 ib. 608. They admitted that the statute law. of Mississippi (see. 33,
act of 13 May, 1837; How. & Hutch. Dig. 595), which corn-

36

SUPREME COURT.
The-Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

pelled plaintiffs to sue in one action the drawers and indorsers
of promissory notes who live in Mississippi, does not confer
upon the courts of the United States jurisdiction of a case
where otherwise they would not have it; nor is such a joint
suit maintainable, in the federal courts, as has been decided in
Dromgoole v. F. & M. Bank, 2 How. 241; Keary v. same, 16
Peters, 89, and Gibson v. Chew, ib. 315. But inasmuch as the
suit had been, before verdict, properly discontinued as to Lacoste, this difficulty was removed, and the action stood as if
originally brought against the present defendants alone.
In further proof of the error of setting aside the judgment
in the Circuit Court, the three last counts showing jurisdiction,
they cited and relied upon Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, at the November term of the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of Mississippi, A. D. 1841, a verdict was
found for the plaintiffs against the defendants for $ 26,485.66.
Final judgment'was then rendered for that sum.
At the ensuing May term, on motion of the defendants, the
court set aside both the judgment and verdict, and dismissed
the case for what it considered to be a want of jurisdiction.
To this the plaintiff excepted, and a writ of error is now
before us to reverse that decision.
The first question is, whether any want of jurisdiction appears on the record.
No evidence is reported, 1nor any defect apparent, which
seems to raise any *doubt concerning the jurisdiction, unless it
be in the pleadhigs.
The declaration contained the usual money counts, -beside special ones on two notes, made to -Briggs, Lacoste, & Co.,
or their order, and by them indorsed to the plaintiffs.
The, defendants pleaded that they did not promise as alleged, and a verdict was found against them, without any statement being given of the evidence laid before the jury or the
court, though opies of the two notes named in the declaration are printed in the case.
The various questions which this state of the record presents, and which b~ar upon the jurisdiction, can, when analyzed and separately considered, be disposed of chiefly by
adjudged cases, without any labored examination of the principles involved. The special counts on the notes standing
alone might not be sufficient, under the 11th section of the Judiciary Act, to give jurisdiction to a: Circuit Court of the United
States, without an allegation that the promisees resided in a
different State from the promisors. Turner v. Bank of North

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

37

The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

America, 4 Dall. 8; iind 9 Wheat. 539; Dromgoole et al. v.
Farmers' & Merchants' Bink, 2 How. 243; and Keary et al. v.
Farmers' & Merchants' Bank of Memphis, 16 Pter, 95.
But it is very clear, that the money counts aver enough to
give jurisdiction to the court below over them, as they state
an indebtednets and a promise to pay, made directly by. the
defendants to the plaintiffs. Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat.
539; Bingham v. Cabbot, 3 Dall. 41.
It is well settled, likewise, that the notes would at the
trial be evidence. of money had even of an indorsee. 4 Es.
Ca. 201; 7 Halsted, 141; 6. Greenl. 220; 12 Johns. 90;
8 Cowen, 83; Wild v. Fisher, 4 Pick. *421; Webster V'.
Randall, 19 Pick. 13; Ramsdell v. Soule, 12.Pick. 126; Ellsworth v. Brewer, 11Pick. 316; 16 Pick. 395; State Bank v.
Hurd, 12 Mass. 172 i 15 Mass. 69, 433; Page's Administrators
v. Bank of Alexandria, 7 Wheat. 35; 2 Win. B1. 1269.
But they probably would not alone be sufficient, by the
11th section of the Judiciary Act, to give jurisdiction over them
to a Circuit Court of the United States, under these money
counts any more than the others, without .additional evidence
that the original promisees resided in a different State from
the promisors. (7 Whekt. 35 semb.)
No decision, however, is made on this point, as from this
record we cannot learn but that such additional evidence was
given, or that other evidence than the notes was not introduced
in support of the money counts.,
It is not competent for this court now to presume that neither of these kinds of eviden=e was offered beside the notes.
The inference, on the contrary, is the other way, or the defendants would probably have objected. to the jurisdiction-at the
trial, and the jury not found a verdict for the plaintiffs, or the
court not have rendered judgment upon it.
In. the next place, if such a state of things did happen as
there having been no additional or other evidence, it is clear
from the record, that no advantage was taken of it till .after
fanal judgment, and at the following term of the court, and
then by motion only.
But it was then too late, after final judgment, and at the
next term, and by motion only, to set aside the judgment and
verdict on account of a supposed want of jurisdiction. At the
next term, if no final judgment had yet been rendered, the
6ourt might, from its minutes, have had the -verdict applied to
the counts on which it was in truth found. 2 Howard, 263:
2 Saund. 171, b; Tidd's Pr. 901.
,And if, in this case, it was found on the two special counts
alone; the: judgment on the verdict' might then have been ar4
VOL. VL

38

SUPREME COURT.
The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

rested for want of proper averments in them conferring juris-

diction.
So it might have been arrested for a misjoinder of bad
counts with good, if the verdict had not been applied to the
latter, but remained general. Hopkins v. Beedle, 1 Caines's
Rep. 347; 5 Johns. 476; 1 Chit. P1. 236, 448; 1 Taunt. 212;
2 ,Bos. & Pul. 424; Qowp. 276; 3 Wils. 185; 2 Saund. 171,
b; 3 Maul. & Selw. 110; Doug. 722.
But here jurisdiction did appear on three of the counts, and
also final judgment had been rendered in November previous.
The action was not regularly on the docket at the new term
"inMay following, when the court undertook to set the judgment aside. The power of the court over the original action
itself, or its. merits, under the proceedings then existing, had
been exhausted, -ended.
Jackson v.Ashton, 10 Peters, 480;
Catlin v. Robinson) 2 Watts, 379; 12 Peters, 492; 3 Bac. Abr.
Error, T. 6; Co. Lit. 260 a; 7 Ves. 293; '12 :Ves. 456;
1 Stor. P. 310; 1 Hoff. Pr. 559; 2 Smith, Oh. 14; 9 Peters,
771; 3 John. 140; 9 John. 78; Kelly v. Kezir, 3 Marsh. 1.
268.
This means the.power to decide on it, or to change opinions
once given, or to make new decisions bnd alterations on material points. A mere -error in law, (f any kind, supposed to
have been rendered in a judgment of a court at a previous
term, is never a sufficient justification for revising and annulling it, at a subsequent term, in this summary way, on motion.
See cases ante; 2 Gall. 386; Cameron v. MciRoberts, 3 Wheat.
591; 2 Haywood, 237; Skinner v. Moor, 2 Dev. & Bat. 138;
Wash. Bridge Comp. v. Stewart, 3 How. 413 ; and Jackson et
al. v. Ashton, 10 Peters, 480; Lessee of Hickey et al. v. Stewart, 3 How. 762; Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 543;
Elliot et al. v. Piersol et al., 1 Peters, 340-; Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Peters, 511 ; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241.
We would not be understood by this to deprive a court, at a
subsequent term, of power to set right mere forfis in its judgments. 3 Wheat. 591; 3 Peters, 431; 12 Wheat. 10; Lawrence v. Cornell, 4 Johns. Ch. 542. Or power to correct misprisions of its clerks. The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 10; Hawes v.McConnel, 2 Ohio, 32; 1 Greenl. 375; Coin. Dig. Amendment,
T. 1. The right to correct any mere clerical errors, so as to
conform the record to the truth, always remains. Sibbald v.
United States, 12 Peters, 492; Newford v. Dorsey, 2 Wash. C.
C. 433; 6 Watts, 513; 8 Watts, 424; 1 Wendell, 101; 4 Wendell, 217; 1 Bibb, 324; 2 Bibb, 88; Weston's case, 11 Mass.
417; The Bank v. Wistar, 3 Peters, 431. Irregularities, also,
in notices, mandates, and similar proceedings can still, in some
cases, be amended. Ex parte Crenshaw, .15 Peters, 123.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

39

The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

Indeed, any amendments permissible under the Statutes of
Jeofails may be proper at subsequent terms (2 Tidd's Pr. 917';
2 Arch. Pr. 202, 243); and at times even after a writ.of error
is brought. 2 How. 243; 3 Johns. 95; Poph. 102; Pease v.
Morgan, 7 Johns. 468; Oheetham v.Tillotson, 4 Johns. 499;
1 Johns. Ca. 29 ; 2 Johns. 184; 1 Bing. 486 ; Douglass v. Bean's
Executors, 5 Bing. 60. So it is well settled, that at a subseqluent term, when the judgment had before been arrested, an
amendment may be made to apply the verdict to a good count
if another be bad and the judge's minutes show that the evidence applied to the good count. (Matheson's Adm. v. Grant's
Adfn., 2 How. 282, and cases cited there.)
•So a mistaken entry of a mandate, in a case where the parties were not at all before the court, may be revoked at a subsequent term, the hearing having been irregular and a nullity.
Ex parte Crenshaw, 15 Peters, 119; 14 Peters, 147. But no
cause of this kind appears here in the proceedings, and nothing
else appears to justify the court in going back to a final judgment of a previous term and summarily setting it aside for an
error in the law or the facts, and dismissing the whole case
from the docket.
The only relief for errors in law in such cases is usually by
new trial, review, writ of error, or appeal, as either may be appropriate and allowable by law, or by some other mode specially provided by statute; where, for instance, a judgment has
occurred at some previous term by default, through accident or
some circumstance, which clearly entitles the party -to. redress.
12 Peters, 492; Jenkins v. Eldridge et al., 1 Woodb. & Minot,
65, and cases cited; Anthony et al. v. Love, 3 Ohio, 306; Bennett v. Winter et al., 2 Johns. Oh. 205; 3 Marsh. R. 268; Southgate v. Burnham, 1 Greenl. 375.
Beside these remedies, judgments entered up by fraud may,
perhaps, on due notice, by scirefacias,or otherwise, be vacated
at a subsequent term by the same court, or if offered in evidence be deemed a nullity, should fraud be clearly proved to
have taken place. 2 Roll. Abr. 724; 2 Bac. Abr. Error,.T. 6.
But the present judgment was neither fraudulent nor void on
its face, nor even voidable. Had it been rendered on the special counts alone, it might have been voidable by'a writ of
error, for not alleging jurisdiction in the pleadings. See ante;
2 How. 243; Capron v. Van Norden, 2 Cranch, 126. But
it has been repeatedly settled, that even then, without any
plea to the jurisdiction, and after a verdict for the plaintiff on
the general issue and final judgment, it is not a nullity, but must
be enforced till duly reversed. Kempe's Lessee V.Kennedy, 5
Cranch, 185; and Skillern's Executors v. May's Executors, 6

40

SUPREME COURT.The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.

Cranch, 267.; McCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192; Voorhees
v. Bank of United States,. 10 Peters, 449; 3 Ohio, 306 ; Wilde v.
Commonwealth, 2 Mete. 408; Hopkins v. Commonwealth, 3
Mete. 460. Because it would be a judgment rendered by a
court, not of inferior, but only limited, jurisdiction, and the merits would have been investigated-and decided by consent. This
view is supported by the English doctrine. There, though judgments of inferior .courts or commissioners are often void, when
on- their face clearly without their jurisdiction, and may be
proved to be so and avoided without a writ of error (3 Bac.
Abr. Erior,A; 10 Cok. 77 a; Hawk P.C. ch. 50, sec 3); yet
the judgment of a superior court is not void, but only voidable
by plea on error. Bac. Abr. Void and Voidable, C; 2 Salk. 674;
Carth. 276. Even where the record of a circuit court did not
contain any averments giving jurisdiction, this court has held
that, at a subsequent term) after final judgment, the same tribunal which rendered it could not set it aside on motion.- Cameron v. McRoberts, 3.Wheat. 591. And we have repeatedly
decided as to judgments of this court, that they could not be
changed at a subsequent term, in matters of law, whether attempted on motion, or a new writ of error, or appeal, on the
mandate to the court below. Hunter's Lessee v. Warton, 5
Cranch, 316; 6 Cranch, 267; 1 Wheat. 354; Santa Maria, 10
Wheat. 442; Davis v. Packard, 8 Peters, 323; 9 Peters, 290;
'12 Peters, 491, 343; 15 Peters, 84.
Without going further, then, into the reasons or precedents
against the course pursued in the court below, the last judgment there, on the motion, must be reversed, and the case be
reinstated as it stood before.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Coiirt of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
OAi consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court on
the motion dismissing this case be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to reinstate this case as it stood in that court before the said judgment
dismissing the case.

