JANUARY TERM, 1848.

437

Hogg et,al. v. Emerson.

I concur, therefore, in the judgment of the court, affirming
the decree for full damages, but on the ground of a recovery
for the wrong committed as a marine tort, rather than on any
breach of contract which can be prosecuted by these plaintiffs,
and in admiralty.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United 'States for the
District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit- Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

PEmR Hon AMW

CORNELIUS

H.

DELAxIATER, PLAINTIFpS IN -ERROR,

v. JOHN B. EMERSON.
When a case is sent to this court under the discretion conferred upon the court below by the seventeenth section of the act of July 4, 1836 (Patent Law), 5 Stat.
at Large, 124, the whole case comes up, and not a few points only.
The specification constitutes a part of a patent, and- they must be construed together.
Emerson's patent for " certain improvements in the steam-engine, and in the mode
of propelling therewith either vessels on the wafer or carriages on the land,"
decided not to cover more ground than one patent ought to cover, and to be
sufficiently clear and certain.
Apatentee, whose patent-right has been violated, may recover damages for such
infringenient for the time which intervened between the destruction of the patentoffice by fire, in 1836, and the restoration of the records under the act of March
3, 18W7.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of NeW
York. It was a suit for the violation of a patent-right, and
the writ of error was allo~ed uhder the seventeenth section
of the act of 1836.
On the 8th of March, 1834, John B. Emerson, the defendant in error, obtained the following letters-patent, (which were
recorded anew on the 5th of March, 1841),"viz. :
The United States of America, to all to whom - these letterspatent shall come:
Whereas John B. Emerson, a citizen of the United States,
hath alleged that he has invented a new and useful improvement in the steam-engine, which improvement he states has
not been known or used before his application; hath made
37*

438

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

oath that he doth verily believe that he is the true inventor or
discoverer of the said improvement; hath paid into the treasury of the United States the sum of thirty dollars, delivered
a receipt for the. same, and presented a petition to the Secretary of State, signifying a desire of obtaining an exclusive
property in the said improvement, and praying that a patent
may be granted for that purpose. These are therefore to grant,
according to law, to the said John B. Emerson, his heirs, administrators, or assigns, for the term of fourteen years from the
eighth day of March, one thousand eight hundred and thirtyfour, the full and exclusive right and liberty of making, constructing, using, and vending to others to be used, the said
improvement, a description whereof is given in the words of
the said John B. Emerson himself, in the schedule hereto annexed, and is made a part of thege presents.
In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be made
patent, and the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.
Given under my hand, at the city of Washington,
this eighth day of March, in the year of our Lord
[L. s.] one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, and of
the independence of the United States of America
the fifty-eighth.
AN~nrw JAcxsoN.
By the President:
Louis McLANE, Secretary of State.
CITY OF WASHInGTON, to wit:
I do hereby certify, that the following letters-patent were
delivered to me on' the eighth day, of March, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, to be
examined; that I have examined the same, and find them conformable to law; and I do hereby return the same to the Secretary of State, within fifteen days from the date aforesaid, to
Wit, on this eighth day of March; in the year aforesaid.
B. F. BUTLER,
Attorney- General of the UnitedStates.
The schedule referred to in these letters-patent, and making
part of the saine, containing a description in the words of the
said John Brown Emerson himself, of his improvement in the
steam-engine: To all whom it may concern:
Be it known, that I, John Brown Emerson, of the city of
New York, have invented certain improvements in the steamengine, and in the mode of propelling therewith either vessels
on the water or carriages on the land, and that the following
is a full and exact description thereof.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

439

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

One object of my improvement is to substitute for the crank
motion a mode of converting the reciprocating motion of a
piston into a continued rotary motion, by a new combination
of iachinery for that purpose.
This mode is applicable to an engine either with one or with
two cylinders, and is carried into effect as follows. Alongside
of the cylinder I place a shaft, the lower end of which may
revolve in a step on the platform or foundation upon which
the cylinder stands; in which case it must be somewhat longer
than twice the length of the cylinder, as it must extend above
it to a height somewhat greater than the length of the stroke
of the piston. Sometimes, however, this shaft may have its
lo.wer gudgeon only a small distance below the upper end of
the cylinders, whence it must extend above it as before. Its
upper gudgeon must~of-course be.sustained by a suitable frame.
This shaft is to stand parallel to the piston rod, from which it
is to receive its revolving motion. Upon the upper end of the
shaft, above the top of the cylinder, there is to be placed a
solid cylinder of wood, or of any other convenient substance,
of such diameter as shall cause its periphery to come nearly
into contact with the piston-rod for its whole length, when
the piston is raised. The solid cylinder above described is to
be made to revolve in the following manner. I make a groove
in it, which commences near its lower end, rand, passing spirally,
extends half-way rounu it by the time it reaches nearly to the
upper.end, or to a distance vertically equal to the stroke of the
engine; from that point it passes down around the opposite
half, and returns into itself at the point of beginning. Upon
the upper end of the piston, against its side, I place a frictionroller, which is to work in the groove in the solid cylinder;
the piston-rod rising between parallel guide-pieces, by which
it is kept in its proper place, and its tendency to turn round by
the action of the roller in the groove is checked. When the
piston is down, this friction-roller will stand in the V formed
by the junction of the grooves on the opposite sides, and as it
is raised, it will in its passage to the upper junction give half a
revolution to the solid cylinder, and in descending will complete the revolution by the action of the friction-roller on the:
other portion of the groove.
When two cylinders are used,'they are to be placed parallel
to each other, and at such a distance apart that the pistons of
each may, in like manner, act upon the solid cylinder; the
piston of one'being up when the other is, down. The boiler,
the steam-pipe, the valves for the admission and discharge of
steam, and other appendages, may -besimilar to some of those
already in use. From the revolving shaft, already described,

-

440

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v.-Emerson.

a rotary motion may be communicated to peddle-wheels, steamcarriages, or other objects. As it is my intention, ingeneral,
to place my cylinders and revolving shaft vertically, I communicate motion to the horizontal shaft of a paddle-wheel by
means of bevel-geared wheels near the lower end, or at any
convenient part of the shaft; and by similar gearing, carriages
may be propelled upon rail or ordinary roads.
When used for steamboats, I employ an improved' spiral
paddle-wheel, differing essentially from those which have heretofolehbeen essayed. This spiral I make by taking a piece of
me6l of such length as I intend the spiral propeller to be, and
of a suitable width, say, for example, eighteen inches; this I
bend along the centre so as to form two sides, say of nine
inches in width, standing at right angles, or nearly so, to each
other, and give to it, longitudinally, the-tpiral curvature which
I wish.. Of these pieces I prepare two or three,, or more, and
fix them on to the outer end of the paddle-shaft, by medns of
arms of a suitable length, say of two feet, more or less, in such
a position that the trough-form given to them longitudinally
shall be effective in acting uponthe water. It must be entirely
under water, and operate in the direction of the boat's way;
instead of metal, the spiral propeller may be formed of wood,
and worked into the proper form, - the shape, and not the material thereof, being the only point of importance.
Where a capstan is required, as on board of a steamboat, I
allow the upper end of the vertical shaft befcre described to
pass through the deck of the vessel, and atta.ch the capstan
thereto, so that it may be made to revolve by the action of the
shaft, using such ray-wheels and falls to connect the shaft and
the capstan as will allow of their being conveniontly engaged
and disengaged.
What I claim as my invention, and for which I ask a patent,
is the substituting for the crank in the reciprocating engine a
grooved cylinder, operating in the manner hereinbefore described, by means of its connection with the piston-rod, together with all the variations of which this principle is susceptible'; as, forexample, a bar of metal mEy be bent in the form
of a groove, and attached to the revolving shaft, and frictionwheels on the piston-rod may embrace this on each side, producing an effect similar to that produced by the groove. I also
claim the spiral propelling-wheel, contracted and operating in
the manhr in which I have set forth; and, likewise the application of the revolving vertical shaft to the turning of a capstan on -the deck of a vessel. Not intending, in either of these
parts, to confine, myself to precise forms or dimensions, but to
vary them in such manner as experience or convenience may

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

441

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

dictate, whilst the principle of action remains unchanged, and
similar results are produced .bysimilar means.
JOHN BROWN EmEnsoK.
At April term, 1844, Emerson brought a=r action of trespass
on the. case in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, against Hogg and Delamater,
for an infringement of his patent-right. -As one of the points
decided by the couit was whether or not the allegations of the
declaration corresponded with the evidence of the patent, it is
thought proper to insert the declaration. It was as follows,
viz.:"John B. Emerson, a citizen of the State of New 'York, by
Peter Clark, his attorney, complains of Peter Hogg an aCornelius Delamater, citizens of the same State, defendants, in
custody, &c., of a plea of trespass. on the case.
"For that, whereas the said plaintiff was the original inventor of a certain new and useful improvement, in the letters-.
patent .hereinafter mentioned and fully described, the same
being a certain improvement in the steam-engine, and in' the
mode of propelling therewith either vessels on the water or
carriages on thb land, which was not known or used before his
said invention, and which was not, at the time of-his applisation for a patent, as hereinafter mentioned, in public use with
his consent or allowance. And the said plaintiff being so as
aforesaid the inventor thereof, and being also a citizen of the
United States, on the eighth day of March, one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-four, upon due application therefor, did obtain certain letters-patent therefor, in due form of law, under
the seal of the' United States, signed by'Andrew Jackson, then
President, and countersigned by Louis 'McLane, then Secretary
of State, beairing date tI~e day and year aforesaid, whereby there
was secured to him, the said plaintiff, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, for -the term of fourteen years from
and after the date of the said patent, the exclusive right and
liberty of making, using, and vending to others to be used,
the said improvement, as by the said letters-patent in court to
beproduced will fully appear. And the said plaintiff further
says; that the said defendailts, well knowing the said several
premises, but contriving, and wrongfully and injuriously intending to injure the. plaintiff, and deprive him of the profits,
benefits, and advantagces which he might, and otherwise would,
have derived and acquired from the making, using, and vending of the said ini efitioji or imlirovement) after the making
and issuing bf the said letters-patent, and within the term of
fourteen years in said letters-patent mentioned, to wit, on the

442

SUPREME COURT.
,Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

first day of January, eighteen hundred and forty, and on divers
other days and times between that time and the commencement of this suit, at the cify of New York, and within the
southern district of New York, wrongfully and unjustly, without the leave or license, and against the will, ,of the plaintiff,
made and sold divers, to wit, ten machines for propelling boats,.
in imitation of the said invention and improvement, or a part
of the said invention or improvement, to the benefit, use, and
enjoyment whereof the said plaintiff was and is entitled as
aforesaid, in violation tnd infringement of the said letterspatent, and of the'exclusive right and privilege to which the
plaintiff was and is entitled .as aforesaid, and contrary to the
form of the statutes of the United States in such case made
and provided.
"And the said plaintiff. further says, that the said defendant,
well knowing the said several premises, but further contriving
and intending as aforesaid, after the obtaining of the said letterspatent by the said plaintiff as aforesaid, and. within the said
term of fourteen years, to wit, on the said first day of January,
eighteen hundred and forty, and at divers other times between
that day and the commencement of this suit, within the southern district of New*York aforesaid, wrongfully and unjustly,
without the leave or license, and against the will, of the plaintiff, did make and sell divers, to wit, .ten improved machines
for propelling boats or vessels upon the water, constructed in a
similar form and acting upon the same principle as the said
machine or improvement, to the benefit; use, and enjoyment
whereof the said plaintiff was and is entitled by his said letterspatehlt, as aforesaid, iri violation and infringement of the exclusive right so secured to the said plaintiff, by the said-letterspatent isaforesaid, and contrary to the form of the statute in
such case made and provided.
"And the said -plaintifffurther says, that the said defendant,
-well.knowing the said several premises, but contriving and intending as aforesaid, after the obtaining of the said letterspatent by the said plaintiff as aforesaid, and within the said
term of fourteen years, to wit, on the said first day of January,
eighteen hundred and forty,,and at divers other times between
that day and the commencement of this suit, in the southern
district of New York aforesaid, wrongfully and unjustly .and
without the consent or allowance, and against the will, of the
plaintiff, did imitate in part and make a certain addition to the
said invention or improvement, to. the benefit, use, and enjoyment whereof the plaintiff was and is entitled as aforesaid, in
breach of the said letters-patent, and in violation aid infringement of the'exclusive right and privilege so secured to the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

443

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

said plaintiff-as aforesaid, and contrary to the form of the
statute in such case made and provided.
"By means of the committing of which said several grievances by the said defendants, a aforesaid, the said plaintiff is
greatly injured, and has lost and been deprived of divers great
gains and profits which he might and otherwise would have
derived from the said invention and improvement in the said
letters-patent described and set forth, and in respect whereof
he was and is entitled to such privilege as aforesaid, and was
and is otherwise damnified to the damage of the said plaintiff
of ten thousand dollars, and therefore," &c.
To this declaration, the defendants pleaded the general issue,
and filed a copy of the special matteis of defence to the action.
In May, 1847, the cause came on for trial. The patent
was given in evidence, when the counsel for the defendants
prayed the'court to instruct the jury that the patent, thus produced in evidence by the said plaintiff, 'was void, for the. reasons following:
1. That the claim of the plaintiff, as set forth in his specification annexed to his letters-patent, embraces the entire spiral
paddle-wheel; the claim is, therefore, too broad upon the face
of it, and the letters-patent are void upon this ground, and the
defendants'are entitled to a verdict.
2. That the patent is void upon its face, for this, that,purporting to be a patent for an improvement, and specifying that
the invention is of "an improved spiral paddle-wheel, differing essentially from any which have heretofore been essayed,".
without pointing out in what the difference Consists, or in any
manner whatever indicating the improvement by distinguish-.
ing it from the previously essayed spiral paddle-wheels, it ,is
wanting in .an essential prerequisite to the validity of letterspatent for an improvement.
3. That the patent is void upon its face, for this, - that it
embraces several distinct and- separate inventions, as improvements 'in several distinct and independent machines susceptible
of independent operation,.not necessarily connected with each
other in producing the result arrived at in the invention, and
the subjeci-matter of separate and independent inventions.
4. It appears in evidence, that the drawing and model of the
paddle-wheel of plaintiff, filed and deposited. originally in the
patent-office, had been lost by the destruction of that office in
December, 1836, and that in restoring the record of the patent,
under the act of March, 1837, the plaintiff sent fAom New
Orleans to the office a new drating, to be filed on the 5th'of'
May, 1841, together with a court. copy of the letters-patent
which were deposited in the office. The drawing was not.
-

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg, et al. v.Emerson.

sworn to by he plaintiff, but remained in the office till January, 1844, when it was delivered to an agent of the plaintiff
and sent to New Orleans, and sworn to by him, and filed in
the. department on the 12th. of February, 1844. On an examination subsequently by the plaintiff, it was discovered that this
drawing was imperfectly made, and thereupon a second drawing was procured by him, which he claimed and offered to
provie to be an accurate one, and was sworn to, and filed on the
27th of March, 1844, an authenticated copy of which was offered in evidence on the trial b the plaintiff; which was objected
to by the counsel for the defendants, but the objection was
overruled and the evidence admitted, to which an exception
was taken.
5. That if from the evidence the jury are satisfied that no
propelling-wheels were made by the defendants between the
27th of March, 1844, the date of the alleged completion of
the record of the plaintiff's patent, under the act of March 3d,
1837, and the commencement of this suit in April following,
that, upon this ground, the defendants are entitled to a verdict.
The court charged, in respect to the instructions prayed for,
that"' the claim of the plaintiff was for an improvement on
the spiral paddle-wheel or propellei; that, by a new arrangement of the parts of the wheel, he had been enabled to effect
a new and improved application and use of the same in the
propulsion of vessels; that the ground upon which the claim
is grounded was this: it is the getting rid of nearly all the
resisting surface of the wheels of Stevens, Smith, and others,
by placing the spiral paddles or propelling surfaces on the ends
of arms, instead of carrying the paddles themselves in a continued surface to the hub or shaft. It is claimed that a great
portion of the old blade not only did not aid in the propulsion,
but actually impaired its efficiency, and also that the improved
wheel is made stronger. It was made a question on the former
trial, whether the plaintiff did not claim, or intend 'to claim,
the entire wheel. But we understand it to be for an improvement upon the spiral paddle-wheel, claimed to be new and
useful in the arrangement of its parts, aid more effective, by
fixing the spiral paddles upon the extremity of arms, at a distance from the shaft."
The court further instructed the jury, that CCthe description
of the invention was-aufficient, and that the objection, that the
parts embraced several distinct discoveries, was untenable."
The court firther charged, ",that the damages were not
necessarily confined to the making of the wheels between
-arch, 1844, when the drawings were restored to the jpatentoffice, and the bringing of the suit. Such a limitation assumes

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

445

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

that there can be no infringement of the patent after the destruction of the records, in 1836, until theyare restored to the
patent-office, and'that, during the intermediate -time, the iights
of patentees would be violated with impunity." We do not
assent to this view.
In the first place, the act of Congress providingfor the restoration was not paised till 3d March, 1837; and, in the second
place, in addition to this, a considerable time must necessarily
elapse before the act would be generally known, and then a
still further period, before copies of the drawings and models
could be procured. Patentees: are not responsible for the fire,
nor did it work a forfeiture of their rights.
The ground for the restriction claimed is, that the community have no means. of as.certaining, but by a iesort to the
records of the.patent-office, whether the construction of a particular machine or instrument would be a violation of the
rights of others, and the infringement might- be innocently
committed.
But if the embarrassment happened without the fault of
the patentee, he is not responsible for it; nor is the reas6n applicable to the case of a patent that has been published,. and
the invention known to the publi.
The specification in this
case had been published. It is true, if it did not sufficiently
describe the improvement without 'the aid of the drawing, this
fact would not help the plaintiff. If there- had been unreasonable delay and neglect in restoring the records, and in the mean
time a defendant'had innocently made the patented article, a fair
ground would be laid for a mitigation of the rule of damages, if
not for the .withholding them altogethei; and the court left
the question of fact as to reasonable diligence of tLe patentee
or not in this respect, and also all questions of fact involved
in the points of the case for the defendants, to the jury. The counsel for the defdndants 'excepted to each and every
part of 'the chaige of the court, so .far as said charge did'not
adopt the prayer on the part of the defendants.
The verdict of the jury was, that the said Peter Hogg.and
Cornelius Delamater, the defendants, are guilty of the premises
within laid to their charge, in manner and form as the said
John B. Emerson hath within complained against them, and
they assess the damages of the said plaintiff, on occasion
thereof, over and above his costs and charges by him about
this suit in this behalf.:xpended, at one thc umnd five hundred
dollars, and for those 6osts and charges at six cents.
The judgment of the court was, that the said John B. Emers'on do recover against the said Peter Hogg. and Cornelius
Delamater his* damages, costs, and.charges in form -aforesaid
VOL. V1.

38

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

by the jurors aforesaid assessed, and also three hundred and
twenty-four dollars and fifteen cents, for his-said costs and
charges by the said court now here adjudged of increase to
the said John B. Emerson, and with his assent; which said
damages, costs, and charges, in the whole, apount to one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-four dollars and fifteen
cents.
The cause was argued in this court, in printed arguments,
by Mr. Upton and Mr. John 0. Sargent, for the plaintiffs in
error, and Mr. Morton and Mr. Cutting, for the defendani in
error. The arguments were too voluminous to be reported in
eatenso, and it is not possible, therefore, to give more than extracts from each.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error assigned as errors the
following points.
I. 'The defendant in error has no patent for an improved
spiral paddle-wheel.
II. If the defendant's patent is for the combination of instruments' described in the specificatiop, there is no pretence
that the combination has been infringed; if for several separate improved machines, it cannot be supported in law.
III. Defendant's patent is void for too broad a claim, and for
not distinguishing his alleged improvement from other inventions, nor particularly specifying, as the statute requires, the
particular improvement which he claims as his own invention
or discovery. The case exhibits an improvement as the invention, and the claim is for the whole machine.
IV. The.drawing filed March 27th, 1844, was not legal evidence of defendanV's patented invention, because there was, a
drawing filed by the patentee on the 12th of February previous,
which was, by the second section of the act of 1837, with his
letters-patent, the only legal evidence of his invention, as patented, that could be offered in any judicial court of the United
States.
V. - 1. The patentee, after an alleged correction of the
record of his letters-patent,,by filing the second drawing, could
not, in law, avail himself of that alleged correction to cover
by it alleged causes of action previously accruing; and in the
absence of proof of any subsequent infringements, the plaintiffs here were entitled to a verdict below.
-2. Nor was he entitled to recover damages for any alleged
infringement prior to the alleged completion of his record by
the filing of the corrected drawing of 27th March, 1844.
VI. "What was reasonable-time in this case for the restoration.of defendant's patent to the office, if not expressly fixed

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

447

Hogg et al.x. Emerson.

by statute (act of 1837, sec. 2), was exclusively a question. of
law.
Mr. Upton, for plaintiffs. in error.
I. This action was brought to recover damages from.the .de'fendants below, for their asserted infringement of an alleged
patent of the plaintiff for -' an improved spiral paddle-wheel" ;
and the first question t,which theattention of the court is requested is one which is presented upon the face of the letterspatent, which constitute the basis of the action, and wlich are
the
incorporated into'the bill of exceptions ;"it is.this: -Has
defendant in errpr any such patent?
If it be manifest to this court, upon an inspection .of the
record and an examination of the letters-patent, that he has no
grant, as patentee, of "an improved spiral paddle-wheel," then
it is 'submitted, that there is no escape from the necessity of
reversing the judgment which has been rendered, awarding him
damages for the invasion of such a grant. This necessity is
in no manner affected, though it appear that the.objection was
not taken in the court below, either at the trial or upon amtion. in arrest of-judgment. It is sufficient if the defect be
manifest upon the record; for it would be monstrous, to contend .that. this court is powerless, in any case, to reverse the
judgment, when it appears upon the record before them that
the very foundation of the judgment is so incurably and fatal*ly defective as to have been completely beyond the remedy
of the party, ihough the objection were taken at the earliest
possible stage of the proceedings. Authority can scarcely be
necessary to sustainthis position. But this court has decided,
in the case of Slacum v. Pomeroy, 6 Cr. 221, that it is'not too
late to allege as' error in the Supreme Court, a, defect which
ought to.have prevented-the rendition of the judgment in the
court below- -""Had this error," say the court, "been moved
in arrest of judgment, it is'presuriiable. the judgment would
have been arrested "; and "there can be no doubthat any
thing appearing upon the record which. Would have been fatal
upon a motion in arrest of judgment is equally'fatal upon a
writ of error." So also Garland v. Davis, 4 Howard, 131.
By the bill of exceptions it appears, ihat, upon the introduction in. evidence of the letters-patent by the plaintiff, "the
counsel for the defendants did insist before the said Circuit
Court, on behalf of said defendants, that the said letters-patent
so produced'and given in evidence on the part of the said
plaintiff, as aforesaid, were wholly insufficient as- the basis of
the aforesaid action and claim upon the said defendants." -Now,
by reference to- the letters-patent (page 7-of the record); the

448

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

court'will perceive that the.grant to the patentee, upon the face
of the letters, is for "an improvement in the steam-engine,"
and for that alone; that it was for that alone that he solicited
a patent by petition; that it was of. that improvement only
that he made oath that he was the original and first inventor.
Such is the grant, and so is it recorded; and the public would
seek in vain upon the records of the patent-ofmicefor a patent
to the plaintiff below for C1an improved spiral paddle-wheel."
It will not be contended that the letters, standing alone,
confer any title to such an invention. . But it may be said, that,
inasmuch as the patentee has described a paddle-wheel, and
also an improved m~thod of causing a capsfan to revolve upon
the deck of a vessel, as well as his improvement in the steamengine, and claimed these; as well as his steam-engine, in his
schedule annexed to the l.etters-patent, the grant must be construed to cover the paddle-wheel and -the capstan, as well as
the steam-engine, though il be in express terms for the steamengine only, though it was for that alone that he solicited a patent, and it was that alone that he made oath he had invented.
Were this doctrine .maintainable, it is obvious that it would be
wholly subversive of the policy of the law, which looks as well
to the protectidn of the public as it-does to the encouragement
of inventors. That the schedule annexed to letters-patent forms
a part of the patent, and that they are to be construed together,- is undoubtedly well established. This is the- English doctrine, as well as that of our own courts; and, by a careful investigation of the authorities, it will be pereeived that Mr.
Phillips, in his elementary work (pp. 224 et seq.), is mistaken
in supposing that there is any conflict between them.
By these authorities it is decided, that the title of the invention, as contained in the patent, may be explained by its description in. the specification, whenever such title is general,
a.nbiguous, or uncertain; and the patent will be sustained in
all cases, unless the patent indicate one invention,'and the specification deseribe another and different invention. American
authorities.-Phillips on Patents, 224, and cases cited; Sullivan
v. Redfield, Paine, C. C. R. 442; Shaw v. Cooper; 7 Peters,
292, 3t5; Evans v. Chambers, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 125; Barrett v.
Hall, 1 Mason, 476; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 437; Evans
v. Eaton, Peters, C. C. R. 341. English authorities.- Godson on Patents, 108, 113, and cases; Neilson v. Harford, Webster, 312, and arg.; Rex v. Wheeler, 2 Barn. & Ald. 350; S.
C., 3 Merivale, 629; Glegg's Patenlt, Webster, 117; Rus.sell v.
Cowley, Webster, 470; .Househill v. Neilson, Webster, 679.
When Mr. Phillips says (Phillips on Patents, 225), that .any
defect in the -title may bofremedied by the specification, what

JANUARY TERM; 1848.

449

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

he means is apparent by reference to the cases which he cites.
The description comes in aid-of a defective title, but never can
create a new title; by adding to the grant. There must be
such a-conformity between the title and the"specification as
that the former shall give some idea of the latter. It' is the
description of the thing patented "which is made part of these
presents," not a description of something else, 6f which the
title of the grant gives-no idea.
Thus reads the patent itself. After reciting that John Brown
Emerson had by petition solicited a patent for an improvement
in the steam-engine, had made oath that he was the first and
original inventor of said improvement, and paid-the fee of' thirty dollars into the treasury, it grants to him the exclusive right,
&c., in the said improvement, "a description whereof is given
in the words of the said John Brown Emerson himself, in the
schedule hereunto annexed, and is made a part of these presents." Then follows the caption of the schedule, thus: "The schedule referred to in these letters-patent, and making
part of the same, containing a description in the words of the
said John Brown Emerson himself of his improvement in- the
steam-engine."
No reported authority can be found in the remotest degree
sustaining the proposition, that a description and claim of any
thing .contained in a specification are covered by the grant,
though the grant make no reference to it, and the title is so
entirely distinct from it as to suggest no idea of the thing described. Were this proposition tenable, then were.we to strike
out from this patentee's specification every word descriptive of
his improvement in the steam-engine, leaving nothing but the
comparatively few words descriptike of the spiral paddle-wheel
and the improved: capstan, the 'grant for the improvement in
the'steam-engine must be construed as a grant for an improved
spiral paddle-wheel and an improved capstan. Now, would it
nut be monstrous to contend that an instrument of so solemn
a character as a government grant of -letters-patent is to be
added to and enlarged by construction?
The doctrine as settled, upon every principle of construction,
is the true doctrine ; - that the description of the thing patented, contained in the schedule annexed to the patent, constitutes
a part of the patent, and may be and should be resorted to, in
construing the patent, to control the generality of the title and
to explain or elucidate ambiguities or uncertainties; but that
a description of a thing not indicated by the patent, not even
remotely suggested by the grant or the title, can never be construed with the patent for the purpose of adding to or enlarging the terms of the grant.'
38*

451

SUPREME COURt.
Hogg ot al. v. Emerson.

That this doctrine may be made more obvious and conclusive, - if it be possible or desirable, - the court is referred to
the provisions of the statute under which the letters-patent in
this case issued.
The inventoris required to present his petition soliciting the
patent, and to make oath that he is the inventor. The statute
further requires that the letters-patent shall recite the allegations and suggestions of. the petition, and give a short description of the invention. This requisition was obviously for the
twofold purpose, 1st, that.it might appear that the proper preliminary steps had been taken by the applicant, of which the
recital in the letters was proof; and, 2d, that it might, on their
fate, be seen what was the nature and character of the grant.
(Act of 1793, % 1, 3.) Nqw, did this patentee present his petition, soliciting a patent for an improved spiral paddle-wheel,
and make oath that he was the inventor of that improvement?
If it be answered that he did, then the positive requisition of
the statute is not complied with, for the patent recites the allegations and suggestions of no such petition, and gives a short
description" of no such invention; and for this reason the pa-.
tent would be absolutely void.
This is well established in the following cases: - Evans v.
Eaton, Peters, C. C R. 340; Kneiss v. Schuylkill Bank, 4
Wash. C. C. R. 9 ; Cutting et al. v. Myers, 4 Wash. C. C. R.
220-; Evans v. Chambers, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 125.
* If the letters-patent do recite the allegations and suggestions
of the petition, then the patentee did not solicit a patent for
"an improved spiral paddle-wheel" or an "improve d ' capstan" ;
he did not make oath that he had. invented these. improvements, and hence the letters contain no description whatever
of these improvements, and confer no grant of an exclusive
right in them upon the patentee. (The counsel then quoted largely from the opinion of Judge
Washington in Evans 6. Eaton, Peters, C. C. R. 340.)
. II. At the trial, the defendants' counsel requested the court
to instruct the jury, " that the patent of the plaintiff was void
upon its face, for-this, - that it embraces several distinct and
separate inventions, as improvements in several distinct and
separate machines susceptible of independent operation, and
not necessarily connected with each other in producing the result aimed at in the invention, and the subject-matter of separate and distinct patents."
The court charged the jury, that
1!the objection that the patent embraced several distinct discoveries is untenable." In this it is respectfully submitted that
the court below erred.
(The counsel here cited and commented on Phillips on Pa-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

451

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

tents. "It is well settled, that two or more distinct machines,
capable of independent operations, cannot be united in. one patent." 3 Wheat. 454; 1 Mason, 447; 2 Mason, 112; 1 Story, 290.)
III. At the trial of this case, the counsel for the defendants
requested 'the court to instruct the jury, "1that th6 claim of the
plaintiff, as set forth in his specification annexed to hisiletterspatent, embraces the entire spiral paddle-wheel; the claim is,
therefore, too broad upon, the face of it, and the letters-patent
are void upon this ground." Upon this point the court charged
the jury as follows: - "It was made a question on the former
trial, whether the plaintiff did not claim the entife wheel; but
we understand it to. be for an improvement upon the spiral
paddle-wheel, claimed to be new and useffil in the arrangement of its parts, and more effective, by fixing the spiral paddles
the extremity of arms, at a distance from the shaft."
IV.upon
At the
trial, the counsel for the dbfendants also requested the court to instruct thejury, 11that the patent is void-upon
its face for this, -that, purporting to be a patent for an improvement,.and spedifying that the invention is of an improved
spiral paddle-wheel, ' differing essentially from.any that have
heretofore been essayed,' without pointing out in what the difference consists, or in any manner whatever- ihdicating the
improvement by distinguishing it from the previously 'essayed
spiral paddle-wheels, it is wanting in an essential pierequisite
to the'validity of letters-patent for an improvement." Upon
this'point the court charged the jury as follows.: -that "1the
claim of the plaintiff was for an iniprovement on the spiral
paddle-wheel or propeller, - that, by a new arrangement of the
parts of the wheel, he has been. enabled to effect a new and
improved application and use of the same in the propulsion of
vessels. That the ground upon which the claim is founded is
this: it is the getting rid of nearly all the resisting surface
of the wheels of Stevens, Smith, and others, by placing the
spiral paddles or propelling surfaces on the ends of arms, instead of carrying the paddles themselves in a continued surface
to the hub or shaft. It is ctaimed that a great portion of the
old blade not only did not aid in the propulsion, but actually
impaired its efficiency, and also that the inaproved wheel 'is
much stronger." And the court further charged the jury, that
"the description of the invention was sufficient."
Upon thdse two points, it is submitted'that the court below
erred. They are so connected, by reason of the peculiar cir-.
cumstances of the case, that they will be presented and considered together, though they are distinct grounds of objection to
the patent.

452

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. -v.
Emerson.

(The counsel then contended that the specification ought
'to be construed by itself, and be so clear as to be understood, without resorting to evidence or any other source of information, and cited:-English authorities.-

McFarlane v.

Price, 1 Starkie, 199; In re Nickels, Hindmarch on Patents,
186; 1Hil v. Thompson, 3 Merivale, 622; S C., 8 Taunton,
325. "Americanauthorities.-Dixon v. Moyer, 4 Wash. C. C.
.R.69; Evans v. Hettick, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 425; Lowell v.
Lewis, 1 Mason, C. C. R. 189; Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner,
482.)
This leads to the principle in the law of patents involved in
the fourth point. It is the positive requisition of the statute,
and has been repeatedly considered and passed upon by the
federal judicial tribunals..
Before an inventor shall receive a patent, he is required, "in
case of any machine, ftilly" to explair the principle and the several modes in which he has contemplated the application of
that principle or character, by which it may be distinguished
from other inventions, and shall particularly.specify-and point
out the particular improvement or combination which he claims
as his own invention or discovery."- The requisition of the
English law is similar in this respect.
Now, before proceeding to consider whether the patentee, in
this case, has complied with this positive and salutay requisition of the law, the attention of the court is requested to the
reported cases in which the requisition has received judicial
construction.
By a careful examination of these authorities, it will be
found established, that, where a patent is taken out for an improvement, the specification must describe what the improvement is, and the patent be limited to such improvement; - if
the patent includes the whole machinery, it includes more than
the patentee invented, and is therefore void; - that if the patent
be for an improvement in an existing machine, the patentee
must, in his specification, distinguish the new from the old,
and confine his patent to such paits only as are new, and if
both be mixed up together, and a patent is taken for the whole,
it is void; that, hoWever the authorities may apparently vary
in pointing out the - particula manner in which the patentee
must specify his improvement, and- distinguish what he claims
as new and his invention from what was old and before known,
yet that they are in perfect harmony in deciding that he must
do this in some manner, and upon the face of the specification.
American authorities.- Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 454 ; Woodcock v. Parker, 1 Gall. 438; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 478;
Odiorne v. Winkley, 2 Gall. 51; Lowell v. Lewis, I Mason, 182;

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

453

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 447; Sullivan v. Redfield, Paine, C. C.
R. 4-1; Evans v. Eaton, 7 Wheat. 408; Dixon v. Moyer, 4
Wash. C. C. R. 69; Isaacs v. Cooper, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 261;
Cross v. Huntly, 13 Wend. 385;. Head v. Stevens, 19 Wend.
411; Ames v. Howard, 1"Sumner, 482; Kneiss v. Schuylkill
Bankl, 4 Wash. G. C. R. 9; Morris v. Jenkins et al., 3 McLean, 250; Peterson. v. Woodier, 3 McLean, 248. English
cases. - McFarlane v. Price, 1 Starkie, 199; Williams v.
Brodie, Davies, Pat. Cases, 96, 97; Manton v. Manton, Davies,
Pat. Cases, 349; Hill v. Thompson, 8 Taunton; 325; Minter
v. Wells, 1 Webster, 130, Rex v. Nickels, Hindmarch on
Paients, 186.
Now apply the rule of law, as prescribed by the statute and
construed by these authorities, to the patent in this case. Admit that rule, as most liberally stated, in any reported decision,.
and the counsel respectfully asks, in what manner, upon the
face of the patentee's specification, has he distinguished that
which- he claims'as new, and his invention, from what was oldand before known; or pointed out in what his improvement
consists? It is most confidently answered, that he has done
this ii no manner whatever, neither expressly nor by implication; nor by any reference, and it is not in the wit of man to
determine, upon the .face of the specification, what the improvement is which the patentee claims or intended to claim. The
court below, in their construction of the claim, in -charging the
jury, say, that the improvement consists "in a new arrangemerit of the parts." Does this appear, either in terms, or even
impliedly, upon the face of the description? So far from this,
-the last words of the patentee, in his description, are, that the
"shape" of the thing is the "only point of importance." _-The
court further say, that this new arrangement of the parts consists in "getting rid of nearly all the resisting surface of the
wheel of Stevens, Smith, and others, by placing the spiral paddies or propelling surfaces on the ends of arms, instead of carrying the paddles themselves in a continued surface to the hub
or shaft."
Where, upon the face of the description, is theie any mention made of Stevens's, Smith's, or of-any previously invented
wheel, save in the general declaration by the patentee, that his
improved wheel "differs . essentially from any which have been
heretofore essayed,"7-a declaration which' the court, in the
case of Barrett v. Hall, above cited, declare to be " no specification at all"? And where, upon the face of the specification,
is there the most remote allusion to the "getting rid of resisting surface "?
I V. At the trial of the case, "it appeared in evidence that the

454

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

drawing and model of-the paddle-wheel of the plaintiff, filed
and deposited originally in the patent-office, had been lost by
the destruction of that office in December, 1836, and that, in
restoring the record of the patent, under the act of March,
1837, the plaintiff sent from New'Orleans to the office a new
drawing, to be filed on the 5th of May, 1841, together with a
court copy of the .letters-patent, which were deposited in the
office. The drawing was not sworn to by the plaintiff, but remained in the office till January,.1844, when. it was delivered
to an agent of the plaintiff, and sent to New Orleans, and
sworn to by him, and filed in the department on the 12th day
of February, , 184 1 On an examination, subsequently, by the
plaintiff, it was discovered that this drawing was imperfectly
made, and thereupon a second drawing was procured by him,
which he claimed and offered to prove to be an accurate one,
and was sworn to and filed on the 27th day of March, 1844,
an authenticated copy of which was offered in evidence on the
trial by the plaintiff, which was objected to by the counsel for
the defendarts; but the objection was overruled, and the evidence admitied, to which an exception was taken."
It is contended, that the Circuit Court erred in admitting in
evidence the second drawing of March 27th, 1844, and in sup-port of this position, the following considerations are respectfully submitted.
(The counsel then urged, That the patentee had exhausted his privilege, when he
swore to the first .drawing.
That, if allowed to file more than one, he might continue
to file them dowh to the day of trial.
That the first drawing became, by the statute, P, im fade
evidence of the invention, and there could not be two such.
That if this patentee had procured a re-issue of his patent,
under the third section of the act of 1837, he would not have
been entitled to the privilege which he now claims, aind it is
unreasonable to suppose that Congress intended to give greater
privileges under one section than another.)
VI. At the trial of this case, the counsel for the defendants
requested the court to instruct the jury as follows: - "that if,
from the evidence, the jury are satisfied that no propellingwheels were made by -the defendants between the 27th of
March, 1844, - the date of the alleged completion of the record of the "plaintiff's patent, under the act of March 3d, 1837,
-and
the commencement of this suit in April-following, that,
upon this-ground, the defendants are entitled to a verdicf."
The court refused to grant this prayer, and left it, as a
question of fact, for the jury to say, whether there had or had

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

455

Hogg et.al. v. Emerson.

not been unreasonable delay on the part of the patentee in restoring the record. Now, was this a question of fact? It is
submitted, that it was not, but that, under the circumstances,.
it was purely a question of law, to be passed upon by the
court.
The record .shows, that, from the burning 'of the patentoffice, in December, 1836, up to the month of May, 1841, no
step whatever was taken by the patentee to restore the record
of his patent, and that he then delayed to complete the record
until the month of February, 1844. Of course, there could
have been. no dispute as to the fact in connection with the
question of reasonable or unreasonable diligence. Now, the
authorities are clear in establishing this doctrine, - that, when
there is no dispute as to the facts, the questions Of reasonable
or unreasonable time, or delay, or diligence, are questions of
law for the court, and not of fact for the jury. The following
cases are referred to: -Ellis v. Paige, I Pick. 43 ; S. C., 2 ib.
71, 77, note; Gilbert v. Moody, I7 Wend. 354; Reynolds v.
Ocean Ins. Co., 22 Pick. 191; Livingston & Gilchrist '.Maryland Ins. Co., 7 Cr. 506.
And now as to the charge of the court, that " the damages
were not necessarily confined to the making of the wheels between March, 1844, when the drawings were restored to the,
patent-office, and the bringing of this suit." Is Uot.this error?
Why was the drawing of March 27th, 1844, filed in the patentoffice? For the reason only, as avowed, that the drawing of
February preceding was incorrect and defective. For the reason only, that the public had no notice, or, what is still worse,
that the public had an imperfect and deceptive information, bythe first drawing of' the particulars of the patentee's invention.
Would it not be monstrous to allow a patentee to recover damages for an alleged infringement made at a time when, by his
solemn oath, he declares that the defendant was not notified of
the-character of his invention ?- nay, inore, when he swears,
that, at the time of the alleged infringement, the only recorded
notice of his invention, sworn to-by himself, was imperfect,
incorrect, and insufficient?
But by an examination of the grounds upon which the
court rest their decision upon this question, it will be seen in
what manner the error has arisen. The court say, the limitation contended for by-the defendants 11assumes that there can
be no infringement of the patent after the destrufti6n of the.
records in 1836, until they are restored to the patent-officee and
that, during the intermediate time,'the fights of patentees would
be violated with impunity." With the greatest deference, it
will appear, upon a consideration of the statute provisions, that
the doctrine contended for involves no such assumption.

456

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

The second section of the act of 1837 provides for the very
difficurty which is urged by the court as the sole objection to
the limitation contended for. Foreseeing that some time must
necessarily elapse before patentees could be informed of their
rights aid duties, and prepare copies of their patents and drawings and models, Congress has provided, in this section, that,
from the 15th of December, 1836, when the patent-office was
burned, to the 1st day of June, 1837, and not, after, patentees
and others may give in evidence their patents in any court,
notwithstanding that. they have not been re-recorded, and no
verified drawing of the invention has been filed in the patent-

office.
Is there not great danger, in the dispositidn to give the most
l bleral' and enlarged interpretation to statute provisions for the
protection and encouragement of inventors, that the rights of
the public may be too much disregarded?
By the burning of the patent-office, something more was involved than the loss of the evidences of the rights of patentees.
The public were thereby deprived of the only notice which
the law recognizes of what they could and what they could
not do, without being subjected to prosecutions for invasions
of patent-rights. For the public, in the Janguage of Judge
Washington, in a case before cited, "can depend upon no
other information, to enable. them to avoid the consequences
of litigation, than what the records may afford. No description
Of the discovery, secured by a patent, will fulfil the demands
of justice and of the law, but Auch as is of record in the patentoffice, and of which all the world may have the benefit."
Now Congress, in legislating to repaii the loss of the patentoffice, and to provide against its natural consequences, had in
view the protectionof the public,, as well as patentees.; and
while, on the one hand, it was justly considered that patentees
ought not to suffer by reason of a loss arising from no fault
of theirs, on the other, it was as justly considered that the
public ought not to suffer by reason of a tdo long delay on
the part of patentees to furnish to the public anew the recorded
descriptions of their inventions. Thus the second section of
the act of 1837, saving the rights of patentees, enables them
to recover damages for infringements after the burning of the
patent-office, and down to the month of June, 1837, notwithstanding the non-existence of any public record of their inventions; but, saving the rights of the public, the statute gives no
further time.
Is not this ilear? And being so, is it not manifest that the
court below erred in the instructions given to the jury upon
this point?

-JANUARY TERM, 1848.

457

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

The drawing of a patentee, annexed to'his patent, or referred
to in his specification, constitutes a part of the patent,'and
oftentimes, as in this case, is the most material portion'of the
description, -without which the invention would be virtually
undescribed. Now, when a patentee alters or amends his patent, whether in the written description or the delineated description, there is nothing better established than that he cannot
recover damages for an alleged infringement committed prior
to such amendment. The authorities to this point are conclusive, and in perfect uniformity; some of them, and those the
most recent, going so far as to maintain that it makes no difference though the am~ndment be of a mere clerical error.
In re Nickels, Turner & Phillips, 44; S. C., 1 Webster, 659;
Hindmarch on Pat. (Eng. ed.) 216 et seq.; Wyeth v. Stone,
1 Story, 290; Woodworth v. Hall, 1 Minot & Woodb. 248, 389.
It is submitted, that a denial of the doctrine here urged on'
behalf of the plaintiffs in error would be equivalent to an abrogation of the provisions of the thirteenth section of the
atent act of .1837, which declares that a patent can only be
amended by a. surrender and re-issue, and that the amended
patent can only operate upon causes of action iccruing subsequently to the amendment.
Construe the first section of the act of 1837 as the court
below has construed it, and what is the consequence ? ' A patentee,,;.whose grant is dated on or before the'14th of De'cember, 1836, may maintain actions for infringement of his rights
from then to the present time,'without any public record of
his' patent whatsoever being in existence during the entire
period, provided he produces at the trial an authenticated copy
of his patent and drawings from the patent-office, recorded
there, perhaps, but the 'day before! From this consequence, 'it
is submitted, there could be no escape, and small, indeed,
would be the hope of escape for the innocent invader of the
unrecorded right, with the question of reasonable diligence in
the restoration of the record left to the decision of a jury.
Mr. Morton and Mr. Cutting, for the defendant in error.
I.. The first point raised by the plaintiffs in error does not
properly arise. The jury rendered a verdidt for $ 1 500 damages. The amount in controversy being less than $ 2,000,
the defendants below had no right to remove the cause to this
court. They moved the Circuit Court for a new trial upon a
case made, which motion w,s denied, and judgment was docketed upon the verdict. The defendants '.below then applied to
the Circuit Court for the allowance of a '-rit of error, under
the 17th section of the -ct of Congress, approved July 4, 1836,.
VOL. V.
39

458

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

which authorizes writs of error in patent cases to'the Supreme
CQurt,of the United States, in the same manner, and under .the
same circumstances, as was then provided by law in other judg"mentsand decrees of Circuit Courts, "and in all other cases in
which the court should deem it reasonable to allow the same."
Having no right to a writ of error, therefore, unless the
judges of the Circuit Court "should deem it reasonable to allow
the same," application for the writ was made to the discretion
of the court;. and the application was granted so far as to
allow the defendants to raise, for the consideration of the Supreme Court, five 'points specified by the court below, and
which constitute the 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th .points now pre-sented by 'the plaintiffs in error.* The defendants availed
themselves of the permission to -issue a writ of error, restricted'.
as above stated, and now, after the writ has been allowed, they
seek to argue a question not embraced in tho~e specified by
-the court.
It is respectfully submitted, that this course ought not to be
encouraged,. and that the grounds discussed in the first point
taken by th&plaintiffs in error need not be considered by the
.counsel for the patentee. It. may be briefly remarked, however, that the point referred to was not raised at the trial, and
does not appear upon the face of the record, or even upon the
bill of exceptions. It was insisted below, that the patent wag
void for the reasons specified in the bill of exceptions. The
court will search in vain for the question attempted to be discussed by the tounsel for the plaintiffs in error in his first
point.
Even if it were raised by the bill of exceptions, and were a
point that could. be argued here, it would be untenable. The
.7rfument appears to be, that the patentee has no patent for "an
eyproved paddle-wheel," because the title of the grant is for
an improvement in the steam-engine, and the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error argues as if the letters and the schedule were
not part of the same instrument. By taking the whole patent
together, that is, the letters and the specification, there can be
* Writ of error allowed in respect to the question: -

1. Whether the patent is void as embracing two or more distinct and independent inventions or improvements.
* 2. Whether the 'claim is for entire paddle-wheel, or only for an improvement.
3. Whether the new is sufciently distinguished from the old.
4. Whether the corrected drawing was properly allowed and filed.
5. Whether the rule of damages was correct, on condition that case be submitted
on written argument to, Supreme Court at ensuing term, before 1st February,
and judgment to be secured by filing the usual bond.
A copy of Judge Nelson's indorsement on petition for writ of error.
ALZX'R GARDIN.It, Cr

JANUAR

TERM, 1848.

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

459
=

no difficulty in ascertaining the extent of the patent. It grants
to the patentee the right "1of making, constructing, using, and
vending to others to be used, the said improvement, a description whereof is given in the words of the said patentee himself in the schedule hereto annexed, and is made a part of
these presents."
Thus the schedule is made a part of the patent, as much as
if it were recited in the letters themselves. 'The grant is for
the improvement described in the schedule,- and by referring
to the schedule, the improved paddle-wheel is distinctly embraced as a part of the claim.
In the construction of patents, the schedule annexed must
be always kept in view, and resorted to in order to ascertain
what is the invention claimed and patenfed. If the claim or
specification be more extensive than the actual invention, the
patent may be void in part br in whole for that reason; but
there can be no doubt that, primtl facie, the patentee has a
grant for all that he claims in the schedule annexed to his
patent. The description in the letters of the thing invented
is always very brief, because it points to and incorporates the
patentee's specification and description annexed, and which
usually sets forth minutely the whole claim.
The argument on the other side, as to the effect pf a vbriation between the title of the patent and the thing patented
and described .in the schedule, assumes that a good and perfect
specification and description, of the invdntion claimed by the
patentee may be utterly defeated by a defect in the title, so
that a specification and- claim free from all ambiguity will be
rendered utterly worthless by a defect in what the counsel
terms "the title' of the patent. A rule of construction so
harsh and unreasonable would be most destructive in its consequences. If, applied to the interpretation of statutes, it
would nullify many of them that are free from doubt; not
many of the acts of Congress would stand, if defective titles
were declared to be fatal to the laws -themselves.
The patent .act of 1793, section first, provides that the
Secretary of State may cause letters-patent to be granted,
"giving a short description of said invention or discovery."
When the patentee presents his specification, it is referred to
in, and'made a part of, the patent, and it is from the patent,
with schedules and drawings taken 'together, that it is to be
determined what thing is intended to be patented. Pitt v.
Whitman, 2 Story, 621. Any defect in the title is remedied
by a proper- descriptiofi in the schedule. Barrett v. Hall,
1 Mason, 477 ; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 'Gall. 437; Phill.
-

Pat. 224, 225.

*460

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

In England, the rule appears to be different. There the
patent is distinct from the specification, and controls'it in construction, so that the patentee cannot cover any thing by the
specification which is not embraced in the patent. Campion
v. Benyon, 3 Brad. & Bingh. 5; The King v. Wheeler, 2 Barn.
& Aid. 345.
II. But the plaintiffs insist, that the patent "is void, for the
reason that it embraces several distinct and separate inventions,
as improvements in several distinct and independent machines
susceptible of independent opeiation, not necessarily connected
with each other in producing the result arrived at in-the invention, and the subject-matter of separate and independent inventions."
It is clear from the specification, that the patenitee claims to
have discovered an improvement in the steam-engine, and with
it, in the mode of propelling vessels.' He substitutes for the
crank motion a mode of converting the reciprocating motion
of a piston into a continued rotary motion, by a new combination of machinery for that purpose. From the revolving shaft
described by him, a rotary motion may. be communicated to
paddle-wheels or other objects. When used for steamboats,
the patentee employs the improved paddle-wheel described by
him, which is necessarily to be worked in connection with the
other machinery. When a capstan is required, as on board of
a steamboat, he describes the mode of connecting the shaft of
the engine with the capstan, so that it may be made to revolve
by the action of the shaft; and he claims as his invention the
substituting for the crank, in the reciprocating engine, a
grooved cylinder, operating as described; the paddle-wheel
constructed and operating as set forth; and the application of
the revolving vertical shaft to the fuming of a capstan.
Now it is manifest that the invention is a mechanical unity.
The improved engine and paddle-wheel are intended to act
together, and 'if a capstan be used, the improved engine is
made to connect with and turn the capstan, as it does the paddle-wheels. Although the engine may be applied to the oldfashioned wheel, and though it may or may'not be attached to
the capstan, yet it ig mahifest that the improved engine connected with the paddle-wheel, or with a capstan, may be used
in connection to produce or aid the result designed by the
patentee, viz. the propulsion or navigation of a vessel.
(The remainder of the argument upon this head is omitted.)
III. The defendants prayed the court to instruct the jury,
"that the claim of the plaintiff, as set forth in his specification
annexed to his letters-patent, embraced the entire spiral paddlewheel; that the claim was, therefore, too broad upon the face
of it, and the letters-patent were void upon that ground.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

461

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

The court charged.the jury, that "it was made a question on
the former trial, whether the plaintiff did not claim or intend
to claim the entire wheel; but we understood.it to be for animprovement upon the spiral paddle-wheel."
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error supposes that the court
below arrived at this conclusion, nof from the face of the patent, but from matters dehors the specification.- This assertion
is unfounded. The view of the court below is the result of a
just construction of the patent itself.
It is difficult to perceiVe by what colirse of argument the
patent can be sliown to be too broad upon its face. By the expression "too broad," I presume, is intended that the patentee
claims more than he has invented. This is usually a question of
fact, dependent upon the proofs-at the trial. The face of this
patent certainly does not disclose the fact, that the patentee has
a grant for any thing of which he does not claim to have been'
the inventor. The counsel for th plaintiffs has not discussed
this point, except so far as his observations, under his fourth
point may.be applicable ,toit; and it is therefore not deemed
necessary here to enlafge further upon this Jranch of the case,
except to observe that the patentee does not qlaim to be the
inventor of " paddle-wheels," nor of "wheels acting oi the
spiral or screw principle"; on the contrary, he refers to wlhiels
previously "essayed," upon which wheels'the patentee claims
to have improved. What he does claim, then, is an improved
spiral propelling-wheel, constructed and operating under water
in the manner described, which improvement, as described in
the. schedule, is new, and is the invention of the patentee.
IIV. It-is insisted, that the court below ought to hav6 charged
the jury as prayed for; namely, "that the patent is yoid upon
its face for this,- that, purporting to be' a patent for an improvement, and specifying that the invention is 'ofan improved
spiral paddle-wheel, differing from any which have heretofore been essayed, without pointing out in what the difference
consists, or in any manner whatever indicating the improvement by distinguishing it from previously essayed spiral paddle-wheels, it is wanting in an essential prerequisite to the
validity of letters-patent for an improvement."
The court refused so to charge, and held that the description of the invention was in this respect sufficient.
c The point now raised is one purely te~hnicel, because it
must be assumed after verdict, and upon the bill of exceptions,
that the patentee was the real inventor of what he claims;
that de facto he has not claimed as new that which had been
known before; that the improvement is useful, and that the
specification is so full and clear, and free from ambiguity, that
39 *

462

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

any mechanic skilled in the art.of making propellers could, by
following it, construct the thing patented.
But however meritorious the invention may be, yet it is contended that the patent ought to be adjudged void, because it
does not point out the difference between the improved propeller and all other propelling-wheels prieviously essayed.
The object of pointing out the old from the new is, that
the public may be informed what the party claims as his invention, and may ascertain if he claims any thing in common
use.
The law does not require that he should describe the various
paddle-wheels then known, or point out the'differeneps between them and his improvement; such a rule, even it practicable,.would be too onerous to be endured. Take, for example, a patent for an improvement upon all stoves previously
essayed; it would be unreasonable to prescribe that the specification should describe all the stoves in use, or that had ever
been essayed, and that it should point out the difference between them and the particular improvement; such requirement
would be impracticable. Wheui Emerson applied for his patent,
in 1834, there were a very great number of paddle-wheels and
propellers knownj or which had been essayed, many of which
had been patented in this country and in England. Now, it
was not necessary for him to have described all these various
wheels and propellers. It is enough if he has specified his
own improvement; 'and if he has done so in an intelligible
form, his patent is good on. its face, although, when tested by
evidence dehors the patent, it might appear that he has claimed
what was old, and thus his patent might be defeated.
In Evans v. Eaton, 7 Wheat. 435, the rule is thus expressed:
"11We do not say that the party is bound to describe the old
machine, but we are of opinion that he ought to describe what
his own improvement is, and to limit the patent to such improvement. The law is sufficiently complied with by distinguishing in fill, clear, and exact terms the nature and extent
of his improvement only."
Most of the authorities cited by the counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, mfder his fourth point, are referred to by Phillips, in
his work on Patents, and the rule that he deduces from them
is thus stated, at page 269 : "1In specifying an improvement in a machine, it is often necessary to describe the whole machine as it operates with the
improvement, in order to make the description intelligible, and
enable an artist to construct the machine, as the inventor is
bound to do in his description, and which if he fails to do, he
falls into the fault of obscurity; on the other hand, if the whole

JANUARY TERM,, .1848.

463.

Hogg et al. . Emerso-n.

machine, as well the old as the new part, be this described, it
is requisite to distinguish what i art the patentee claims, since,
if this does not .satisfactorily appear, the- patent will, as -we
have seen, be void for ambigbity; or if the obvious construction is, that he claims the whole machine in its improved*
state, the patent will be void by reason of the patentee's claiming too nuch." The mode of expression generally used iiu
the
books, in relation to this subject, is, that the specification must
distinguish the old from the new. The only object of this.
distinction is, however, :to specify what the patentee claims,
and the mere discriminati6n of the new from the old would
not aecessarily show this, for perhaps he does not claini all that
is new. When the cases say, therefore, that the specification
must distinguish the new from the. old, we must understand.
the meaning to be, that it must show distinctly what the pa.
tentee claims, the only object of this distinction being for this
purpose. This doctrine is illustrated by some of the cases aly stated, and it runs through them all wherein this ques-,
tion arises."
Most of the patents describe the improved machine only, as
will be seen byreferring.to the specifications in the pathnt
office, and to the reports of patent cases.
It has been, of late years, the practice of the courts. of this
country to give effect to patents, if possible, rather than to destroy them; and .tothis end, mere technical 9bjections ate no
longer encouraged. The rigorous rifles of the English courts,
and of some of our earlier cases, by which meritorious patents
werefrequently overturned, have given place to 'fore liberal
and enlightened principles.
(The remainder of the argument upon this head is omitted.)
Y. The authenticated copy of the corrected drawing, filed.
in the patent-office on the. 27th of March, 1844 was-correctly
admitted.
The original drawing, filed with the patent in 184, had
been destroyed by fire ; the patente'could not of course produce the original, and he therefore resorted to the next best
evidence that -the nature of the case periitted; this consisted
of a c6py which the plaintiff below offered to prove to be an
accurate copy of the original; and this copy so offered was
duly authenticated in the manner provided by the first and
second sections of the act of March 3, 1837.
Upon the 'strictest -principles of the law of ev.idence, the
plaintiff below was entitled to prove what the original drawing
really was. The origina being lost, the next best evidence
of. it was an-exact copy, proved to.be accurate.
This proof would have been -admissible and proper, irrespect-

464

SUPREME COURT.
:Ivgg et al. v. Emerson.

ive of the act of 1837', and whether the copy so offered was a
record of the patent-office or not. Suppose the act of 1837"
had never been passed, and the plaintiff had proved the destruction of the original drawing, he might have produced upon the
trial a copy of it; and after proof that it was a true copy, he
would have entitled himself to read it in evidence.
But there can be no reasonable doubt that the corrected
drawing, filed on the 27th of March, 1844, was properly received by the patent-office, and that an authenticated copy
thereof was admissible as evidence under the provisions of the
act of 1837.
That act was remedial in its character; its object was to restore the records, and to repair the loss occasioned by the fire.
To that end, it was of the highest public importance that the
specifications and drawings should be correctly and accurately
restored. To have received imperfect or inaccurate copies
would have increased, and not have remedied, the mischief, and
to assert that the patent-office had exhausted its power to restore models and drawings by the reception of what were not
copies or true representations of the originals would be to give
a construction. to the statute that would defeat its object.
The first section declares, "that it shall be the duty of the'
commissioner to cause the copies offered by the patentee, or
any authenticated copy of the original record, specification, or
drawing, which he may obtain, to be transcribed," &c. It is
not only within the powers of the department to receive corrected drawings or models, in place of those that prove to be
inaccurate or imperfect, but it is the duty of the commissioner'
to obtain exact substitutes for the originals, if possible; and if
those already filed are shown to be erroneous, imperfect, or untrue delineations of the originals, it is the duty of the commissioner to replace them with corrected copies. In this way only
can the objects of the act be accomplished. To deny this
power would be to perpetuate errors.
VI. The court below properly refused to charge the jury
that the defendants were not entitled to a verdict, if they were
satisfied that no propelling-wheels were made between the 27th
of March, 1844, and the commencement of the suit.
The defendants excepted to the charge so far only as it did
not adopt the prayer insisted on by them.
The prayer upon this point insists that the defendants were
*entitled to a verdict, if no wheels were made by them after the
27th of March, 1844, no matter how often they had infringed the
plaintiff's patent prior to that date. It assunes that all persons
may, with impunity, infringe upon all or any patents intermediate between the destruction by fire of the records of the patent-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

465

Hogg et al. v. Emersgn.

office, and the complete restoration of them under the act of
1837. If the principle contended for be sound, then the patentee has no remedy for wilful and deliberate violations of his
patent committed intermediate the destruction of the records
of the patent-office and the complete restoration of them, no
matter how public and notorious the patent may have become,
and no matter how extensively the patent may have been published and circulated in works of art or otherwise.
This principle cannot be sound ; and the defendants' prayer
and exception raise no other question. The prayer assumes
the broad ground, that there is no liability for infringements
committed prior to the restoration, not only of the patent itself,
but of the drawings, and that the patentee is not entitled even
to nominal damages.
The patent, in the present case, had been restored and recorded anew long before the 27th of March, 1844, namely in
the year 1841 ; the recorded copy of the.specification and claim
was correct, and .disclosed the patentee's right;. and yet the
court was asked in effect to charge the jury, that infringements
might be perpetrated with impunity at -any time aftei the fire,
and at any time after the recording anew of the letters and
schedule, unfil the 27th of March, 1844. The letters-patent
were published.in the Franklin Journal in 1834, were filed
anew in 1841, and of themselves were sufficient to protect the
patentee, even if the restoration of the drawing had been imperfect.
The views of the learned judge in his charge need no illustration; he charged the jury as favorably for the defendants as
they had a right to request.
The-complaint of the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, that
the court left the question of unreasonable delay, on the part
of the patentee, in taking measures to riestore his records to the
jury, is not properly urged, upon the present writ of error, because, 1. It is not one of the five points that the court below allowed to be raised.
2. That part of the charge was not excepted to at the trial,
and, on the contrary, the exception was limited to the point_
taken in the defendant's prayers.
3. Even if this point were properly before the court, it is
clear that the question whether the patentee had been guilty
of unreasonable delay and neglect in resforing the records was
a question of fact upon the evidence then before the court.
It was a question of fact, submitted to the jury -for the benefit of the defendants below; for if there had been such neglect or delay, the court instructed ,the jury, that, if the defend-

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

ants had innocenty made the patented article, it would be a
fair ground for a mitigation of. the rule of damages, if not for
the withholding them altogether.
The charge was as favorable to the defendants as the law
and the evidence would permit.
Mr. John 0. Sargent,for the plaintiffs in error, in reply and
conclusion.
It is objected to the first point raised 'by the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error, that it is not properly. presented to the court,
though it is admitted to arise upon the record. The argument
is, that the court below intended to restrict the plaintiffs to the
consideration- of 'certain specified questions. True it is, that
the court struck *out from the bill -of exception several points
on which the' plaintiffs relied; but the object of the court in
so doing is misapprehended. It was the purpose of the court
merely to. disembarrass and relieve the record of objections
which they considered ill-taken, and the discussion of which
they deemed unnecessary. .That, besides this limitation, *of
which the.plaintiffs have not complained, it was the intention
of the court to cut them off from their right of dealing with
this record according to law, is not to be presumed or implied.
No doubt whatever is entertained by the counsel for the plaintiffs, that the objection is well raised on the record, and that it
is fatal to the defendant's claim.
L The point made is, that, the defendant in error has no
patent for an improved spiral paddle-wheel.
The learned counsel for the defendant is mistaken in supposing that the argument of plaintiffs' counsel proceeds upon
. the idea, 'that the letters-patent and the' spe6ification are not
parts of the same instrument. the specification forms a part
of- the patent, -and they are to be construedftogether, but construed with reference to the fundamental principle of interpretation, Quoties in verbis nulla ambiguitas, ibi nulla expositio contra verba fienda est - oi, as it is sometimes laid down
in the books, "No construction shall be made contrary to the
very express words of a grant."
In construing this instrument, we must look to the situation
of the parties, and the mode in which it was prepared. The
formal letters-patent speak'the language of both parties. In
the instrument of grant, there is nothing equivocal- or ambiguous. It is not capable of being misunderstood. No ingenuity
can extort a double meaning from. it. Mt. Emerson made path
that he was the inventor of an improvement, in the steamengine; solicited a patent for said improvement; received a
patent reciting the exclusive privileges vested in him in said

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

"- 467

Hogg et al. 1D.Emerson.

improvement, and making the description of said improvement
contained in the schedule annexed a part of his patent. All
this must be taken as absolute truth. ' The patentee claiming
under this instrument is bound by its recitals, and estopped
from denying any thing that -it
alleges. The letters-patent, in
fact, are the joint production of the grantor.and grantee. . The
Secretary of State adopted the description of his improvement
which the grantee furnished in his petition. The entitling of
the schedule is debatable ground. This may have been the
work of the grantee alone, or of a clerk in the department.
In either*event, it indicates the intention of the parties, and, as
if to exclude the possibility of the grantee's taking an exclusive privilege to any, other thing than that contemplated and
expressed in the patent, the heading or title of the schedule
recites', in effect, that said schedule is made a part of the patent, so far as it contains a description of the improvement in
the steam-engine, and no farther.
The language of the parties indicates plainly enough what
was intended to be granted, and what was actually granted.
Then comes the descriptive part of the schedule, or the specification, in the words of the grantee alone. This contains a
particular description of the improvement in the steam-engine
secured by the patent. It then describesan application of this
improved engine to turn the iapstan on the deck of a vessel;
and an improved spiral paddle-wheel, alleged to differ materially from those previously essayed. Now, the ground. taken
by the counsel who opened this case is simply this, -that Mr.
Emerson, cannot, by the' introduction -of new matters in his
specification, make his patent operate as a grant for the improvement mentioned in his petition, oath, and letters; and
'also as a patent for other things not mentioned in such petition,
oath, and letters. It is respectfully submitted, that such' is
clearly the law.
It is presumed that there, is no difficulty in the court's taking
judicial notice of any thing involved in the construction of a
patent, which a judge at nisi prius would know without the
aid of a jury. If this view is correct, the court will know
that an improved steam-engine is not an improved- paddlewheel, and was not at the time this patent was issued. This
being so, the improved spiral paddle-wheel is not only not in
terms included in this patent, but is by legal implication as absolutely excluded from the patent as if it were excluded in express terms. In the fair, natural, obvious interpretation of this
grant, collecting its meaning from the terms used in it, understood in their plain, ordinary, and popular sense, the improved
steam-engine is the subject, and the sole subject, of Mr. Emer-

468

.UPREME

COURT.

Hogg et aI v. Emerson.

son's patent. Apply these principles, which, in the language
of ,alearned and eminent judge, furnish a "rule of cofistruction which applies to all instruments," and they, establish
beyond a question that Mr. Emerson has no grant for an exclusive privilege in a spiral paddle-wheel."
And, first, because the force of the schedule is thus restrained
in express terms by the patent, and these terms are the language
of both parties. Again, because the language of the schedule
is throughout the language of thi grantee alone, and binds the'
grantor only so far as it has been expressly, or by necessary
implication, adopted by him. Now the duty of the Secretary
of State, under the act of 1793, was purely ministerial. He
took no such judicial -cognizance of specifications. as is now
rigidly exercised by the commissioner of patents. The grantee
might have included manor distinct machines in his schedule,.
and the Secretary of State was not called upon to notice the
fact, did not notice it, and could not have prevented it. The.
patent was within his control, and the .schedule so far as it was
made a part of the patent, but not otherwise. He could so
far restrict it as to limit its effect to the description of the thing
patented,'and to that extent he did in fact, in express terms,
limit it. Beyond this he had no jurisdiction. The same is
true of the Attorney-General. It was his duty merely to see
that the patent purported to enbrace but one improvement, and
that the specification was signed by the patentee, and attested
by two witnesses. His duty was then discharged,, and" he
certified to the patent's being conformable to law. Now, is it
not against reason, and therefore against law, to say that such
a schedule, made by the grantee alone, and not examined by
the grantor, is in any other respect, and to any greater extent,
operative in conferring exclusive privileges, than it is made so
by the mutual assent of.the parties, etpressed in their common
and joint language in -the patent itself? Can such reckless-.
ness and improvidence in the issue of its grants as a different
construction would establish 'be attributed to any government ?
If the schedule had contained the specification of a spiral
paddle-wheel alone, would -it have 'been patented under the.
terms of this 'giant? Would the patentee in that case have
complied with that provision of the statute of 17.3, which required him to Yrecite" his invention in his petition? t Would
hig oath to the invention of an improved steam-engine then
have covered the invention of a spiral -paddle-wheel? And if
not in that case,'why in this? Does the mere fact of describing-the improved steam-engine in the schedule incorporate in
this patent an improved paddle-wheel, which would not have
been incorporated if the improved steam-engine had been

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

469

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

omitted1 altogether? If such is the construction to be put upon
these instruments, the Secretary might as well have issued'his
letters-patent in blank, and suffered individuals to fill them up
at their pleasure. The petition, the oath, the description, the
grant, the signing by the Secretary and President, the reference
to the Attorney-General, were all superfluous. But, say the
counsel for the defendant in error. the schedule is a part of the
patent, and if the schedule contains a description and claim of
a machine, that machine becomes the subject of the exclusive
privileges granted by the patent, just as much as if the invent6r had petitioned for, sworn to, paid for, and received a
patent for the same. This understanding of the matter woilld
have been a very convenient one for a -patentee under the law
of 1793, because it would have enabled him to include in his
letters the inventions of others, without incurring the penalties
of perjury; and as many of them as he pleased at the expense
of a single fee. With all deference, but with all confidence,
it is repeated, that the schedule is go far a part of the patent as
it contains a description of the thing patented, and no farther.
It is the description of the improvement patented contained in
the schedule, which is the specification that forms a part of
the patent. It is in this view that the language of the court
is to be applied, when they say that the specification is a part
of the patent, and that the whole is to be taken together, and
construed as one instrument. As a general thing, under the
law of 1793, the schedule contained only such a specification;
in 'contemplation of law it never can contain any other; if it
contains any thing more, the excess is surplusage. If it does
is at least inoperative, - it cannot en-,
not vacate the patent, -it
large the grant.
On the English cases there would be no doubt on this point.
For the non-conformity between theL title in the patent and the"
description in the specification', the patent would be declared
void on two grounds: - 1st. For the false suggestion in the
petition. 2d. For the .claii in the specification of an improvement not within" the true meaning and extent of the
grant..
Either of these objections. would render a patent in England
absolutely v6id: - 1st. Because the crown has been deceived.
2d. Bec use the inaccurate title is calculated to deceive the
public.
These consequences flow, noi from any special provision in
the English patents or statutes, but from principles of the common law applicable to all public grants. These principles
apply with equal force to public grants of the United States,
unless there is some provision in ,ou patents as issued, or in.
40
VOL. VI. -

470

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

our statutes on this subject, rendering them inapplicable. It is
submitted, with all deference, that no such provision can be
found, and that the reasons for sustaining them in their full
effect are stronger under the system established by our act of
1793, than under the English system.
(The remainder of the argument upon this head is omitted.)
II. It is again objected by the counsel for the defendant in
error, that there is nothing in the exception to the ruling of the
court in regard to the insertion of several claims for distinct
and separate machines in -the specification.
The case of the defendant is obviously very much distressed
by this point, and'his counsel -protest strongly that the inventions described exhibit a " mechanical unity," being all a
means of propelling vessels. To maintain this proposition they
resort to a very extraordinary mechanical discussion, to show
that, by means of the capstan, without regard to the motive
power of the engine, they could propel a vessel. If this be so,
and the counsel should present their argument to the commissioner of patents in the shipe of a specification, they might
readily obtain a patent for it if a new and useful invention.
They think, if a vessel with Mr. Emerson's machinery on board
should be becalmed, without fuel, that, by applying "1the
motive power " by manning the capstan, motion would thereby
be communicated to the propeller. The answer to this is, that
no such application is contemplated 'by the patentee; and to
arrive at it. the learned counsel is compelled to sever and destroy his mechanical unity, by leaving the steam-engine useless
for -the want of fuel.
The question is now, for the first time, distinctly presented
to this tribunal, and the doctrine on this subject is to be settled
by the judgment of the court in this case., It is a question of
no inconsiderable public importance, and it is desirable, that it
should be adjudicated on plain and substantial grounds. All
inventions are supposed to conduce more or less to one common object, to wit, the benefit of the public. This common
purpose is probably too remote to sustain the introduction of.
all manner of inventions into the- same patent; but, for all
practical purposes, it is precisely as proximate and tenable as
the common purpose claimed for the patentee in this case.
It is most humbly submitted, that the doctrine of this court,
as suggested in Evans v. Eaton, is the true doctrine on this
subject:- " On the general pa a t law a doubt might well arise
whether improvements on different machines could regularly
be coniprehended in the same patent, so as to give a right to
the exclusive use of the several machines separately, as well
as a right to the exclusive use of those machines in combina-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

471

Hogg et-a|. v. Emerson.

tion." This language obviously contemplates a case in which
the machines patented might be used in combination; and the
whole force of 'Mr. Justice Marshall's very sound and pregnant
suggestion is destroyed the moment the converse of the proposition is established, namely,, that when *machines are. capable
of being used in combination, then any number of them may
be united in the same patent. The language of the court in
the case cited applies only to the case where the machines in
question are capable of acting together; withdraw such cases
from the operation of the principle propounded by the court,
and there is an end of it. And yet this doctrine, as laid down
by the court in that case, is daily acted upon by the patentoffice, under the act of 1836 ; and if it is materially shaken.*or
qualified, the revenues of the department will be very seriously
'diminished.
The suggestion in Evans v. Eaton, on this point, was much
considered in Barrett v.Hall, and it may be said that no cases
on record present more masterly expositions of the principles
of patent law which they discuss. Wyeth v. Stone stands ofi,
the extreme verge of sound principle; but there the two instruments were in fact but part of one and the same machine.
The instruments contemplated: in that case formed a compound.
machine for cutting ice. They were, in fact, but parts of one
and the same instrument. Two things cannot be readily im-.
agined more absolutely distinct and separate, instruments, than
a steam-engine and a paddle-wheel. A steam-engine is employed to give motion to every manner of machinery. A paddle-wheel may be turned by horse-power, or man-power, or
windriiill-power, as well as by a steam-engine. Here the engine is the motive power; the wheel is the thing, moved. The
engine might be Well employed to move. any thing else; the
wheel might well be put in action by any other motive power.
They are as distinct and separate as cause and 'effect,-and cannot be united in one patent, except upon principles that would
entirely nullify the rule of law laid down in Evans v. Eaton
and Barrett v., Hall, and admit of the introduction in the same
-patent of "entirelydistinct and separate machines.
It is suggested; that a different doctrine from that. contended
for by the plaintiffs prevails in England. We have cited- no
English authorities on this point. It arises on our own statutes, and is so rested by Mr. Justice Marshall.
There is no hardship in the rule contended for. In no other
way can the subject-matter of an invention be distinctly brought
out, so as to warn the public agaist.undesigiied infringements.
If several machines can be mixed up in one'specification, and
several improvements on each, and then patented in the name

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. t. Emersob.

of one of those machines, it is respectfully, but earnestly, insisted, that the patent-office cannot fail to become the source
of more oppression and outrage than will be long tolerated by
a people -who are masters of their own institutions. Under
such an understanding of the law, letters-patent will be regarded by the public as mere charters of ihiquity, and the whole
system must be swept away. It must be as impracticable to
sustain such an institution in the United States as it would be
to establish the- Inquisition here, or vest in the government
those odious prerogatives the abuse of which led to the English statute of monopolies.
It is most humbly submitted, then, that, on the authorities
and on the reason of the case, there was error in the charge of
his honor, the circuit judge, that "the objection that the patent
embraces several distinct discoveries is untenable."
III. Counsel for the defendant in error cannot perceive by
what course of argument this "patent" can be shown to be
too* broad upon its face. We are embarrassed somewhat in
reasoning upon this case, because it is an anomaly. This is
the first attempt on record to sustain a. grant of an exclusive
privilege by virtue of letters-patent which contain no allusion
whatever to the alleged subject-matter of the privilege which
is set up under them. We repeat, and to this point pray the
special attention of the court, that, among the many hundred
patent cases that have been adjudicated in this country and in
England, not one such case is reported. In discussing analogies, therefore, we must waive for the time the great difference
between this and, all other cases, arisiA'g from the fact that the
patent before us contains no grant of an exclusive privilege in
a spiral paddle-wheel.
Plaintiffs' counsel do not allege, therefore, that this patent is
too broad upon its face. It is as broad upon its face as the law
will allow. It is broad enough to cover an improved steamengine, and no more broad. It is made void by attempting to
include more in th6 specification than is included in the grant,
and more in the claim than is shown to be of the patentee's
invention. Th6 objection of plaintiffs' counsel is, that the
claim is brodder than the invention.
The claim is for the entire spiral paddle-wheel, constructed
and operating as set forth; and more than that, it is for such a
machine "not confined to precise forms or dimensions, but varied as experience or convenience may dictate, whilst the principle of action remains unchanged, and similar results are produced by similar means."
Here is a claim for the entire wheel, to be varied as the inventor may see fit to vary it, and for every other wheel operat-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

473

Hogg at aL 2. Emerson.

ing on the same principle, and producing similar results by
similar.means. It is-a claim, as broad and -distinct as language
can, make it, for the spiral. propelling-wheel, and every part, of
it, and for liberty to vary it in form as the inventor pleases,
as long as a similar result - to wit, the propulsion of vessels
produced by similar means, - to wit, by a :spiral wheel,
The result. contemplated is propulsion; the means or. instrument is a spiral whdel, of such form as experience *orconven
lence may induce the inventor to make, without changing the
principle -of action. Such is the claim ; and if the"claim is a
valid one, no man can effect the propulsion of a vessel on the
principle of action conteimplated by aspiral wheel, without invading Mr. Emerson's claim.
But, while such is the claim with which Mr. Emerson arms
himself, and goes out among men,.as Lord Kenyon 'expiessed
himself in a similar case, "hanging-terrors over the unlearned,"
when we come to examine the specification of his wheel) we
find an implied acknowledgment that it is only an improvement, and merely an implied acknowledgment. He spaks of'
an "improved spiral paddle-wheel," leaving the.unavoidable
inference, that he has.improved 'the ordinary paddle-wheel. by,
making it spiral, and that the spiral feature - or, as -he subequently describes it, his spiral trough -is the only material
part of his improvement.
Here is- the old defect, that has been decided over ahd over
again to be fatal, - the invention of an improvement, and the
claim of the whole machine. No ingenuity can withdraw -his'
case from that large class of cases in which the rule we contend for has been laid down with a distinctness that caniiot be
mistaken, and applied. -with a wise, uniform, and iurelenting
firmness. The' courts- say, that no man shall give that false
color to. his claim which may enable him to "hang terrors over
the unlearned." The case before the court is Iessop's case,
where the patent-was for the whold watch, and the invention
of a particular movement. It i the.case presented in Williams.
v. Brodie, where the invention was an. improvement on a stove,
and the p tent'for the whole stove. Itruns on all fours with
Cross v. Huntley, where the invention was of an improvement
in the washing-machine, and the claim was for the whole machine; where the coiqrt did not hesitate, in an action where the
patent came up 'collaterally, to declare it void. It is Bovile v.
Moore, where the patent for an improvement on a lace-machine
was held void, because the claim was for the whole machi.ne,.
though a considerable part of it had been long in use.
There isno matter of fact to be found, in order to bring'out.
this defect, that the law may be applied to. it. It lies 'on the
40 *
-is

474

SUPREME COUE7.
Hogg et al. V. Emerson.

Iwe of the specification. Jessop, Williams, Cross, and Bovile
showed 'that they had invented improvements, and claimed the
entire machines. Emerson suggests that he has invented an
improVement, and claims the entire machine. Where is the
difference ? What subtilty can distinguish between, these
caes? Aind why should we seek .to establish thin, fine, and
subtle distinctions, in a case where the policy of-the law is so
plain, obvious, and honest, and where the great end to be attained is to prevent patentees from'" hanging terrors over the
unlearned

",-?

.These cases, it may be said, are not binding authorities upon
this court. They are not so cited.. No weight is claimed for
them beyond that which they derive from their intrinsic good
sense and sound reason,- Their authority, as well-considered
decisions, has never beii judicially disturbed or questioned.
But there is.a case of controlling authority, - that of Evans v.
Eatoh, - sustaining the doctrine for which we dontend to its
full extent. To this case I shall have occasion again to refer,
in considering the fourth head of the argument of the learned
cotnsel for-the defendant, to which I now pass.
IV; The fourth point discussed by the learned counsel for
the defendant touches the 'second .prayer. made to the court
below,
Plaintiffs contend that Wr. Emerson's specification does not
define with precision the nature and extent of the alleged improvement in the spiral paddle-wheel, but describes ihe whole
machine, aAd claims the whole as improved, without distinguishing the new fronr the old. A patent with such a specification eannot be supported, This doctrine. rest8 so firmly- on
tho authoritative decision of this court, that it may well be left
to authority. We shall, therefore, rhere!y"allude to the 6bvi-ue reason for it, vhich is, to limit the 6xelusitre privilege to
the actual imrprovebient, and disarm the patentee of the power
of. "hanging terres ovet the unlearned," and practising upon
the fears and credulity of -the public, by "pretending that his
invention -is tiote .thantwhat it really' is, or-different from its
ostensible objects." . If a patentee cad mix up a single unde-

fined improvement in details of the construction and operation
of an old machine,' and then 6laim the whole machine constructed and operating in the nianner set forth, then a patent,
instead 6f,being merely .the reward of meritorious invention, is
a device to encourage litigation, extortion, and fraud. Such a
pitent shifts its grounds at every trial, changes its color accord-.
ing -to the aspect in which it is presented'or met, and adapts
itself wiLh a ftal elasticity to the length and breadth -of the
evidence which happens to be applied to it.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

475

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

(The remainder of the argument upon-this head is omitted.)
Y. Now with regard to'the drawings. -It appears from the
record (p. 10), that two drawings were filed by-Mr. Emerson in
the patent-office, under the act of .1837; one as early as 1841,.
which was re-filed, with the plaintiff's oath to its correctness,
oq the 12th of February, 1844,'and the other, With the same
oath, on the 27th of March, 1844. -The second drawing was
the one produced and relied on by the plaintiff below as constituting, with the letters-patent, that certified copy of the renewed record in the patent-office which the second section of
n
the act last cited makes the only proof of the alleged patent
admissible in any judicial court 'f the United States.
The learned counsel for the defendant in error suggeft, that,
after the original drawing was destroyed by fire, the next best
evidence of it was an accurate copy of it, offered to be proved
such. It is submitted, with great deference, that a drawing of
Mr. Emerson's paddle-wheel, fied in March to lay the foundation of a suit in April, was not the next best evidence of the
alleged original, for the reason that there was another drawing,
previously fied and sworn to, which was something more than
next best evidence of tne lost original, being made by statute
absolutely the only evidehce of it that could be received in any
judicial court of the United States.. It might, ind~ed, be, well
contended, that the first-filed drawing did not at all partake of
the character of secondary evidence. It became, by force of
the statute, to all legal intent, 'the original drawing. It filled
the place of the original drawing on the record, being verified
'by the same oath, vesting the same rights, construed in the
same way as part of the specification, and qonclusive proof of
all that it purported top rove, until it should be rebtitted. The
letters-patent and first drawing filed by Mr. Emerson; under the
first section of thd act of 1837, became, by virtue of the second section, as far'as the patentee was concerned,-primary'evidence. It-was open to observation and impeachment to all the
rest of the world; but by operation of the statute, in connection with well-established principles of law, it was at all events
conclusive upon the patentee. The drawing, therefore, filed
on the 27th of March, 1844, was not in law the "next best "3
evidence of Mr. Emerson's original drawing, because there was
a prior drawing .filed on the 12th of Februark, which the statute had expressly declared to be the legal original, at least for
all purposes of litigation.
(The remainder of the argument upon this head is omitted.)
VI. On the question of damages, counsel for the defendant
insist that there was no error in the charge of the learned
judge, that "1the damages were not necessarily confined to'the

476

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

making of-the wheels between March, 1844, when the drawings were restored to the patent-office, and the bringing of the
suit." Such a limitation was prayed below, and, as it was supp sed, on well-established principles bf law and equity. It is
again pressed, with all deference, but with perfect conviction,
that the refusal of the prayer was error, for which the judgment-under consideration ought to be reversed.
.The patent act contemplates, that every thing to be done by
an inventor, with respect to his specification and drawings, is
to be done. before the patent issues.' There is no such thing
as correcting the record of a specification or drawing by mere
substitution of some other specification or drawing. After the
patent issues, the patentee cannot, by merely depositing a new
drawing, on any plea whatever, make it a part of his patent,
or any evidence whatever of his invention, as originally patented, so as .to cover cases of alleged infringement prior to
such change in the record. There can be only one motive of
-desiring to add a new drawing, and that is, to remedy a defect
or insufficiency -inthe original drawing or specification, or to
correct he -same. -The object of such a change- can never be
merely to present a more tasteful drawing, or a drawing moreagreeable to the eye, or more in conformity to pidtorial rules.
Other arts than the fine arts induce such an application. The
offer to file a new drawing is an admission on the part of the
patentee, that his new drawing covers something in which the
original drawing is defective or insufficient. And, under these
circumstances, what does the statute say? That the patentee
must surrender his patent, and that a new patent may. issue in
conformity with his corrected specification, and thereafter operate, for the. residue of the original term, on the trial of all
actions thereafter commenced for causes sibsequently accruing,
as though the 'same had been originally'led in such corrected
form before the issuing out of the original patent. And'in this
case, the commissioner is not bound to grant such re-issue, nor
can he grant it except in cases where the error has arisen by
inadvertency, accident, or mistake, and. without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention. Similar ,proceedings may be had. in
regard to the addition of an im rovement. -(Act of 1836

13.)
'(The remainder or me argument upon this head is omitted.)
It is respectfully submitted, then, 1. Because the defendant in error has no grant of exolusive
privilege in'the machine, which is the 'subject-matter of -the
present controversy:
2. Because he could not ii. lair, receive a. grant for it, as one
of several distinct machines in the same patent:

JA.NUA.RY TERM, 1848.

471

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

3.' Because, as tihe author of an improVement, he could not
take out a valid patent for the whole machine:
& Because he has, not in his specification distinguished between the old. and new parts of his alleged-improved machine,
but has claimed the whole machine as improved z
.5. Because he did not produce in evidence. the record of his
patent which the law had made such, but another record; and,
6. Because he has recovered damages. for causes of action
accruing previously to, the alleged correction of his record, and
prior to the alleged renewal of it under the act of 1837:
For all these reasons, and for others raised upon-the exceptions and record in this cause, presented perhaps too much at
length, but not more dt' length, in the view of -counsel, than
their public importance may jutify,--- that the judgmeht of
the Circuit Court in this case ought to be reversed.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought under some peculiarities
which are first to be noticed..
It comes here by virtue of the 17th section of the -general
patent law of July. 4th,. 1836.. (. Statutes at Large, 124.)
That section grants a writ of error from decisions in actions'
onpatents, as- in ordinary cases, and then- adds the privilege of
it "in all other cases in which the-court shall deem it reasona, ble to allow the same." This was'doubtless intended to reach
suits where the amount in'dispute-was less than'$ 2,000, on ac-.
count of the importance of the points sometimes raised, and the
convenience of having the decisions on .patents uniform; by
being finally settled, when doubtfulj by. one tribunal, such as
the Supreme Court.
The judges below, in -this case; deemed it reasonable, that
only a certain portion of the questions raised at the trial, conceming the validity of the patent, should come jiere, and the
record was made up accordingly.
,

But-.the appellants contend, for their right to bring-here all
the questions which arose in the case, and this is a preliminary
point to be settled before going into the merits. The present
is believed to be the first writ of the kind, which has given
occasion for settling the construction of any part. of the above
provision; and therefore, without the aid- of precedent, after
due consideration of the words and design of 'the statute, we
have come to the conclusibn, that the'position of the plaintiffs
in error, in this respect, is 'the correct one, and that-wheni a
court below deem it "reasonable" to allow a writ of error at
all'. under the discretion vested in them by this special provision, it must be&on the whole case.

478

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

The word "reasonable" applies to the ' cases," rather than
to any discrimination between the different points in the cases.
It may be very proper for the court below to examine those
points separately and with care, and -if most of them present
questions of. common law only, and not of the construction of
the patent acts, and others present questions under those acts
which seem very clearly settled or trifling in their' character,
not to grant the writ of error at all. It might, then, well be regarded as not "reasonable" for such questions, in a controversy too small in amount to make the writ a matter of right to
persons, if standing on an equal footing with other suitors. But
we think, from the particular words used rather-than otherwise,
that the act intended, if the court allowed the writ as "reasonable" at all, it must be for the whole case, or, in other words,
must bring up the whole .for consideration.
We shall, therefore, proceed to ex unine all the questions
made at the trial, which it is supposed are relied on, and are
.nowbefore us on the original writ and a certiorariissued since.
Looking to the declaration, the action is for a violation of a
patent for an ." improvement in the steam-engine, and in the
mode of propelling therewith either vessels on the water or
carriages on the land."
The evidence offered at the trial was a patent for "a new
.and useful improvement in the steam-engine," "a description
,whereof is given in the words of the said John B. Emerson
himself, in the schedule hereto annexed, and is made a part of
these presents."
In the schedule annexed is described fully what he says he
invented, viz. -CC certain improvements in the steam-engine,
and in the mode of propelling therewith either vessels on the
water or carriages on the land."
The first luestion arising on this statement is, whether the
evidence proves Auch a patent as is set out in the writ to have
been violated by the respondents.
If the patent is to be .ascertained from the letters alone, or
rather from what is sometimes called their title or heading,
without reference to the schedule annexed, .the evidence is undoubtedly defective, as the writ speaks of a patent for an improvement..in the steam-engine and in the mode of propelling"
vessels, &c., therewith, -while the letters themselves, in their
title or heading, speak only of a patent for " a new and useful
improvement in the steai-engine." But the schedule annexed
and referred td for further description, after "improvement in
the 'team-engine," adds, " and in the mode of propelling there-with" vessels, &c.
It can, hardly be doubted, therefore, that the improvement

JANUARY TEIIM, 1848.

479

Hogg et al. v; Emerson.

referred to in the writ and in. the letters-patent, with the schedule'.or specification.-annexed, was in truth one and the same.
Coupling the two last together, they constitute- the very
thing described in the writ. But whether they can properly
be so united here, and the effect of it to remove the difficulty,
have been questioned, and must therefore be further examined.
We are apt to be niisled, in this country, by the laws and forms
bearing on this point in England being sodiffereiit in sombe respects from what exist here.
There the patent is first. issued,.and contains no reference to
the specification, except a stipulation that one shall, in the required time, be filed, giving a more minute description of the.
matter patented. (Webster on Pat. 5, 88; Godson. on Pat.
6, App.) It need not be: filed under two to four months, inthe
disqretion of the proper officer: (Godson on Pat. 176.)
Under these circumstances, it *il be seen that the patent,
going out aon there, must in. its title. or heading be fuller
than here, where it goes. out with the minute specification..
But even there it may afterwards be aided, and its matter be
made more clear, by what the specification contains.. They
are, says Godson on .Pat. 108, "connected together," and
"one may be looked at t6 understand the otheir." See also 2"
Hen. Bi. 478; 1 Webst. Pat. R. 117;- S"D.& E. 95.
There, however, it will not answer to allow the specification,
:filed. separately and long after, to be resorted to for upplying
any entire'omission in the patent; else somethingmay be, thus
inserted afterwards which had never been previously examined
by the' prolpr officers, and which, if it had been submitted tm.
them in the patent and examined, might have prevented the
allowance of it, and which the world is not" aware of, seeing
only. the letters-patent without the specification, and with6ut
any reference whatever to-its contents. 3 Brod. & Bingh: 5.
The whole facts and law, .however,are different hete. This
patent issiied March 8th, 1834, and is therefore to be testad
by the act of- Congress then in -force, which passed February.
21st, 1793. (1 Statutes at Large, 318.)
Th the third section of that act it is expressly.provided, "that
every inventor, before ha can receive a patent j " '.'shall deliver
a writtendescription of his invention," &c. ;--thus giving priority yery propexly to the specification rather than the patent.
'This -change from the English practice existed in, the first
patent law, passed April 10th, 1790 (1 Statutes at Large, 109),
and is retained in the last act.of C6ngress on thissubject, passed
July 4th, 1836 (5 Statutes'at Large, 119).
It was *isely introduced, in order that the officers of the.goveminent might at the outset have before" them full means to

480

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg et al. v. Emerson..

,examine and understand the claim to an invention better, and
decide more judiciously whether to grant a patent or not, and
might be able to give to the world fuller, more accurate, and
early descriptions of it than would be possible under, the laws
and practice in England.
In this country, then, the specification being required to be
prepared and filed before the patent issues, it can well e referred to, therein in estenso, as containing. the whole subjectmatter of the claim or petition for a patent, and then not only
be tf6corded for information, as the laws both in England
and. here require, but beyond what is practicable there, be
united and go out with the letters-patent themselves, so as to
be sure that these last thus contain the substance of what is
designed to be regarded as a portion of the petition, and thus
exhibit with accuracy all the claim by the inveiitor.
But before inquiring more particularly into the effect of this
change, it may. be useful to see if it is a compliance with the
laws .in respect to a petition which existed. when this patent
issued, but were altered in terms shortly after.
A p6tition always was, and still is, required to be presented
'by an inventor when he asks for a patent, and one is recited in
this patent to have been presented here. It was 'also highly
important in England,.that the contents of the petitioli as to the
description of the invention should be full; in order to include
,the material parts of them in the patent, no specification being
so soon filed there,'as here, to obtain *such description. from,
or to be treated as a portion of the petition, and the whole of it
sent out with the patent, and thus cdmplying with the spirit
of the law, -and giving fuller and more accurate information as
to the invention than any abstract of it could.
In this. view, and under such laws and practice here, it will
be seen that the contents of the petition, as well as the petition
itself, became a very unimportant form, except as construed to
adbpt, the specification, and the contents of the latter to be con-sidered substantially as the contents of the former.
Accordingly, it is not a littleocurious, that, though the act of
1793, which is to govern this case, required, like that of 1790,
a,petition to be presented, and the patent when issued, as in
the English form, to recite the "allegations and siiggestions of
the petition," (1 Statutes at Large, p. 321, sec. 1, and p. 110,
sec. 3,) yet, on. careful inquiry at the proper office; so far as
its records, are restored, it appears that, after the first act of
1790 passed, the petitions standing alone seldom contained any
thing as to the patent beyond a mere title; sometimes fuller,
and again very imperfect and general, with no other allegations
or suggestions, or descriptions whatever, except those in the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

481

Hogg et -a-l. v. Emerson.

schedule or specification. The only exception found is the
case of Evans'b. Chambers, 2 Wash. C. C. 125, in a petition
filed December 18th, 1790.
Though the records of the patent-office before 1836 were
consumed in that year, many have been restored, and one as
far back as August 10th, 1791, where the petition standing albae
speaks of havng invented only "an easy method of propelling
boats and other iessels through the water by the power of
horses and'cattle." All the rest is left to the schedule.- Other
"petitions, standing alone, are still more meagre; one, for instance, in 1804, asks a patent only of a -"new and useful improvement, being -a composition or tablets to write or draw
on"; another, only "fa new and useful improvement in the
foot-stove "; and another, only "a new and useful improvement for shoemaking?'; and so through the great mass- of
them for nearly half a century:. But the specification being
filed at the same time, and often on the same paper, it seems
to have been regarded,, whether specially named in the petition
or not, as a part of it, and as giving the particulars desired in
itq and hence, to avoid mistakes as to the extent of the invent.or's claim, and to comply with .the law, by inserting in the
patent at least the substance of.the petition, the officers inserted, by express reference, the whole descriptive portion of it
as contained in the schedule. This may have grown out of
the decision of Evans .. Chambers, in order to remedy one
difficulty there. Cases have been found'as early as 1804, and
with great uniformity since, explicitly making the schedule
annexed a part of the-letters-ltent. Proofs ofthis exist, also,
in our reports, as early as. 1821, in Grant et al. v. Raymond1
6 Peters, 222; aud one, 1st Oct., 1825, in Gray et al. V. James
et al., Peters, C. C. 394; and 27 Dec. 1828, Wilsonv. Rousseau,
4 How. 649.
Indeed, it is the only form of a patent here known at the
patent-office, and the only one given in American treatises on
patents. Phillips on Pat. 523. Doubtless this use of the
schedule was adopted, because it contained; according to common understanding and practice, matter accompanying the petition as a part of its subsimce, 'and all the description of the
invention ever desired either in England or here in the petition.
Hence it is apparent, if the schedule itself was made a part of
the patent, anid sent out to the world with it, all, and even more,
was contained in it .than could be: in any abstract or digest of a
petition, as in the English. form.
We regard this mode and usage on this subject, adopted so
early here and practised so long, as not proper to be overruled
now, to the destruction of every patent, probably, from 1791 to
41
voL. V.

482

SUPREME COURT.
"Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

1836 ; and this, too, when the spirit of all our system was thus
more fully carried out than it could have been in any other way.
As this course, however, sometimes was misunderstood and
led to misconstructions, the revising act as to patents, in July
4th, 1836, changed the phraseology of the law in this respect,
in order to conform to this long usage and construction under
the act of 1793, and required not in terms any abstract of the
petition in the patent, but rather "1a short description" or title
of the invention or discovery, "1correctly indicating its nature
and design," and "referiing to the specification for the particulars thereof, a copy of which shall be annexed to the patent."
And it is that - the specification or schedule -- which is fully to
specify "what the patentee claims as his invention or discovery.'! Sec. 5. (5 Statutes at Large, 119.)
It was, therefore, from thiglonglconstruction, m such various
ways. established or ratified, that, in the present patenft, the
schodule, or, in other words, the specification, was incorporated
expressly and at length into 'the letters themselves, - not by
merely annexing them with wafer or tape, as is argued, but
describing the invention as an- "improvement, a description
whereof is given in the words of the. said John B. Emerson
himself, in the schedule hereto annexed, and is made a part of
these presents." Hence, too, wherever this form has been
adopted, either before or since the act of 1836, it is as much
to be considered with the letters, - litereapatentes,- in construing them, as any paper referred to in a deed or other contract.
Most descriptions of lands are to be 'ascertained only by the
other deeds and records expressly specified or referred to for
gaides; and so of schedules of personal property, annexed to
bills of sale. Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4 How. 378; 21 Maine, 69;
.20 Pick. 122; Phil. on Pat. 228; Earle v. Sawyer, 4 Mason, C. C. 9;- Ex parte Fox, 1 Yes. & Beames, 67.
The
schedule, therefore, is in such case to be regarded as a component part of the patent. Peters, 0. 0. 394, and Davis v. Palmer et al., 2 Brockenbrough, 301. The oath of Emerson, too,
that he was inventor of the improvement, must thus be considered as extending to all described. in the schedule, no less
than the title; and this is peculiarly proper, when. the specification is his own aicount of the improvement, and the patent
is usually only the account 'of it by another, an officer of the
government. Taking, then; the specification and letters together, as the patent-office and the inventor have manifestly in this
instance intended that they should be, and they. include what
has long been deemed a part and the substance of the petition;
.and the patent described in them is quite broad enough to embrace what is. alleged in the writ to have been taken out .as a

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

483

Hogg et -al. v. Emerson.

patent by the plaintiff, and to have been violated by the defendants. They are almost ipsissimis verbis. And when we
are called upon to decide the meaning of the patent included
in these letters, it seems our duty not only to look for aid to
the specification as a specification, which is customary, (1 Gall.
437; 2 Story, R. 621 ; 1 Mason, 0. 0. 477,) but as a schedule,
made here an integral portion of the letters themselves, and
going out with: them to the world, at first, as a part and parcel
of them, and for.this purpose united together for ever-as.iden-tical.
It will thus be seen, that the effect of these changes in our
patetit laws and the long usage and construction under then!
is. entirely to remove the objection, that the patent in this case
was not as broad as the claim in the writ, and did not comply
substantially with the requiremdnts onnected with the petition.
From want of full attention to the differences between the
English laws and ours, on patents, the views thrown out in
some of the early cases in this country do not entirely accord
with those novi offered, Paine, C. C. 441 ; Pennock et al.
v. Dialogue, 2 -Pet. 1., Some other diversity exists bt.times,
in consequence -of the act of 1793, and the usages under it in
the patent-office, not being in -all respects as the act bf 1836.
But it is not important, in this case, to go farther into thes6
considerations.
The next objection is, that this description in the letters,thus
considered covers more than one patent, and is, therefore, -void.
There sedms to have been no:good reason at first, unless'it
be a fiscal one on the part of the government when. issuing patents, why more than one in favor of the same inventor should
not be embraced in one instrument, like more than one tract of
land. in one deed, or patent for.land. Phillips 6ci Pat. 217.
Each could be set out in seParate articles or paragraphs, as
different counts. for different matters in libels in admiralty -or
.declarations at common law, and the specifications could be
made distinct for each, and equally clear.
But to obtain more revenue, the public officers have generally declined to issue letters for more than one patent described in them. Renouard, 293 ; Phillips on Pat. 218. 1he
courts have been disposed to acquiesce in the practice, as conducive to clearness and certainty. And if letters issue otherwise inadvertently, to hold them, as a general rule, null.. - But
it is a well-established exception, that patents may be united,
if two or more, included in one s6t of letters, relate to a like
subject, or are in their nature or operation connected together.
Phil. on Pat. 218, 219; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, C. 0. 447;'"
Moody v. Fiske, 2 Mason, C. 0, 112; Wyeth et al. -v. Stone .et
al., 1 Story, 273.

484

SUPREME COURT
Hogg et al. r. Emerson.

Those here are of that character, being all connected with
the use of the improvements in the steam-engine, as applied to
propel carriages or vessels, and may therefore be united in
one instrument.
Another objection is, that these letters, even when thus connected with the specification, are not sufficiently clear and certain in their description of the inventions.'
This involves a question of law only in part, or so far as
regards the construction of the written words used. Reutgen
v. Kanowrs etal., I Wash. C. C. 168; Davis v. Painier et al.,
2 Brockenbrough, C. 0. 303; Wood v. Underhill, 5 How. 1.
The degree, of clearness and freedom from ambiguity required
in such cases is, by the patent act itself of 1793, to be sufficient
" to distinguish the same from all- other things before known,
and to enable any person skilled in the art or science of which
it is a branch, or with which it is most neatly connected, to
take, compound, and use the same." 1 Statutes at Large,
321. See also on thi , Godson on Pat. 153, 154; 2 Hen. B1.
489; Wood- v.' Underhill, 5 How. 1 ; Davoll et al. v. Brown
I Woodb. & 'Min. 57; Pet. C. 0. 301; Sullivan -v. Redfield,
Paine, 0. ,C.441..
There axe some further and laudable objects .inhaving exactness to this extent, so as, when -the specification is presented,
to enable. the commissioner of patents to judge correctly.
whether the matter claimed -isnew or too broad. 3 Wheat.
454; 3 Brod. & Bingh. 5; 1 Starkie, N. P. 192. So, also, to
enable courts, when, it is contested afterwards before them, to
form a like judgment. 1 Starkie, N. P. 192. And so that
the public, while the term continues, may be able to understand what' the patent is, and refrain from its use, unless 1i.censed.
Webster on Pat. 86; 11 East, 105; 3 Merivale,
161 ; Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wash. 0. C. 453 ; 4 Wash. C. 0. 9;
Bovill v. Nlooie, Davies's Cas. 361; Lowell v.Lewis, 1 Mason,
0.
C.the
182-189.
. In
present instance, yielding to the force of such reasons
in favor of a due and rational degree- of certainty in describing
any improvements claimed as new, -there still seems to us,
though without th6 aid-of experts and machinists, no difficulty
in ascertaining, from the language used here, the new movement intended to be given to the steam-engine, by substituting
a continued rotary motion for a crank motion, and the new
form of the spiral wheel, :when the engine is used in vessels,
by changing the form of the paddles anil placing them near the
qnds of the arms; and the new connection of the power with
the capstan of such vessels, by inserting the upper end of the
shaft into the capstan. It is 'obvious, also, that the inventor

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

485

Hogg qt al.nv. Emerson.

claims as his improvement; not the whole of the engine, nor
the whole of the wheel, but both merely in the new and supe-.
rior form which he particularly sets out. He,; therefore, does
not claim too much, which might -be bad. Hill-v. Thompson.
et al., 2 J. Marsh: 435; 4 Wash C. C. 68; Godson on Pitents,,
189; Kay v. Marshall, 1 Mylne & Cr.- 373; 1 Story, R. 273;
2 Mason, C. C. 112; 4 Barn.. & Ald. 541; Bovill v. Moore,
2 Marsh. Com. P. Rep. 211.
The novelty in each he describes clearly, as he should; and
it is not necessary he should go further. (1 Story, R. 286;'
Webster on Pat. 86, note. MacFarlane v.Price, 1 Siarkie, 199;
and KingZ. Cutler, ib. 354; 3 Car. & Payne, 611; -2 Mason,
C, C. 112; Kingsby & Pirsson on Pat. 61; Godson on Pat.
154; Isaacs v. Cooper et al., 4 Wash. C. C. 259.
Re need not describe particularly, and disclaim all the old
parts. 7 Wheat. 435; Phil. on Pat. 270, and cases cited.
And the more especially is that unnecessary, when such dis-.
claimer is manifestly, in substance, the result of his claiming
'as new only the portions which he does describe specially.All which is required on principle in order to be exact, and not
ambiguous, thus becomes so.It is to be recollected, likewise, that the models and drawings were a part of this. case below, and are proper to be resorted to for clearer information. Earle v. Sawyer, 4 Mason,
C. Cf. 9. With them and such explanatory testimony as ex-'
ports and machinists could furnish, the court below were in a
.ondition to understand better all the details, and to decide
more correctly on the clearness of the description; but from all.
we have seen on the rdeord alone, we do not hesitate to concur in the views on this point as expressed in that court.
In conclusion, on the othbr objections to the proof, as to the
drawings and to the charge below in relation' to the effect of
them' and to' the destruction of them by fire, we likewise approve the directions given to the jury.
.The destruction. by fire was no fault of the inven'tor; and
his rights had all become previously perfected. This is too
plain to need further illustration.. We cannot cOnsent to be
over astute in sustaining objections to patents. 4 East, 135.;
Crosley v. Beverly, 3 Car. & Payne, 513, 514. -The true rule
of construcion in respect to patents and specifications, and the
doings generally of inventors, is to apply to them plain and
ordinary principles, as we have efideavoured to on this occasion,
and-,not, in this most metaphysical branch of modern law, to
yield to subtilties and technicalities', unsuited to the subject
and not in keeping with the liberal spirit of the age, and likely
to prove ruinous .td a class of the -community so,.inconsiderate

41 *

486

SUPREME COURT.
Htouston et al. v. City Bank of New Orleans.

and unskilled in business as men of genius and inventors
usually are.
Indeed, the English letteis-patent themselves now, however
different may have been once their form or the practice under
them, declare that "they are to be constried" ,"in the most
favorable and beneficial sense, for the best advantage" of the
patentee. Godson on Pat. 24, App: 7; Kingsby & Pirsson
on Patents, 35. See also, on this rule, Grant v. Raymond,
6 Pters, 218; -Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumndr, 482-485; Wyeth
v. Stone, 1 Story, R. 273, 287; Blanchard v. Sprague, 2 Story,
R. 164; 2 Brockenbrough, C. C. 303; 2 Barn. & Ald. 345, in
The King v. Wheeler; 5 Howard, 708, in Wilson v. Rousseau
et al.; 1 Crompt., Mees., & Ros. 864, 87'6, in Russell v. Cowly.
The judgment below is affirmed.
Note. - After the delivery of this opinion, the counsel for
the plaintiffs in error suggested that -other questions-were made
below, -which they desired to be considered, and therefore
moved for dfbther certiorari to bring .them up. This was

atlowed, and'judgme, t suspended till the next term.

WiLLIAb! HousTox AND OTHERS, AND FRANcIs FIsK AND OTHERS,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, t). THE CiTY'-BANK OF NEw ORLEANS.
the District Court of the United. States, sitting in bahkruptcy, had power to decree

a sale bfthe mortgaged property of a bankrupt; and if there are more mortgages
than .one, and the proceeds of sale are insufficient to discharge the eldest mortgage, the purchaser will hold the property free and clear of all encumbrances
arising from the junior mortgage.

T is case was brought up, by a writ of error issued under
the twenty7-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme
(Court of the State of Louisian4,
The facts in the case are fully set forth in the opinion of the
edurt.
It was argued by -Mr..ohnson and Mr. Clay,.for the plainties in error, and 141r. Sergeant, for the def6ndants in error.
Mr. Johnson stated the case on behalf of the plaintiffs in
error, who were purchasers of certain property which was exposed to public sale by order of the District Court of the United
States. The question was, whether a mortgage upon the property, held by the City Bank, was an existing lien at the time
of filing the bill, or whether the lien had been destroyed by
the proceedings in bankruptcy.

