JANUARY TERM, 1848.

103

Heirs of De .Armas v.United States.

not lie in the casei and therefore, also, properly refused by the
court below, and that the judgment should be affitmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, ana was argued by c6unsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be aiid the
same is hereby affrmed.

Tnx HEIRS OF C. ANiT M. DE AR AS, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED
STATES.
An order of the District Court, sustaining a demurrer to a petition because it was
multifarious, and because the names of the persons claiming or in possession of
the land which the petitioners alleged to belong to them were not set forth, was
not a final judgment or decree from which an appeal lies to this court.

THis case came up by appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
It was a petition in the District Court relating to land, the
circumstances of which it is unnecessary to state any further
than they are referred to in the opinion of the court, as the
case went off upon a point of jurisdiction. It was argued by
Mr. S. A. Prentissand Mr. Perin, for the appellants, and Mr.
Clifford (Attorney-General), for the United States.
That part of the argument of the Attorney-General which
related to the point of jurisdiction was.as follows.
On the part of the United States it is contended, that the
Supreme Court has no jurisdiction under the second section of
.the, act of 1824, or under any other act, unless in cases where
the judgment or decree in the court below made final disposition of the suit.
This point has been repeatedly ruled, on the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, by the unanimous judgment of
the court, and is believed no longer to be an open question.
Houston v. Moore, 2 Wheat. 433. Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheat.
448. Weston et al. v.City Council of Charleston, 2 Peters.
449. Winn's Heirs v. Jackson et. al., 12 Wheat. 135.
"The word final must be nnderstood as applying to all
judgments and decrees which determine the particular cause."
Weston et al. v. City Council of Charleston, before cited, on'
pages 464, 465.

104

SUPREME COURT.
Heirs of De Armas v. United States.

The act of 1824 follows very closely the requirements of
the Judiciary Act in this respect. The second section provides,
"And in all cases the party against whom the judgment
or decree of the said District Couit may be finally given shall
be entitled to an appeal, within one year from the time of its
rendition, to the Supreme Court of the United States, the deci3ion of which couit shall be final and conclusive between the
parties; and should no appeal be taken, the judgment or decree
of the said District Court shall, in like manner, be final and
conclusive."
The appeal is allowed only to the party against -Vfhom the
judgment or decree may be finally given; and, further, to place
the point beyond doubt, in case no appeal be taken. it is specially provided that the judgment or decree of. the .District
Court shall be final and conclusive.
In thig case no final decree' was made. Some points in the
demurrer beiug.sustained, the petitioners appeal. The petition
is not dismh .ed, but, from aught that appears in the record, is
still open to a rehearing. It is clearly within the discretionary
power of the .district judge to allow the 4pellants to amend
and avoid the objections raised. At all events, the final decree
has not been passed, and no appeal will lie.
The record does not show that the proceedingslin the court
below are closed; consequentlyo no case is- made within thE
,provisions of law authorizing an appeal. The petition and
pleadings are still within the contiol of the cmurlt~elow.
Mr. -Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by appeal from the District Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
It appears that a petition was filed by the appellants, claiming
an inchoate title to certain lands, under Spanish grants, which
they alleged the United States were bound to perfect; but that
these lands had been sold by the'United States to divers per-sons unknown to the petitioners. They therefore prayed that
the validity of their claim might be inquired into, and that
they be allowed to locate.the same number of arpents upon the
public domain, according to the provisions 6f the act of Congress of May 26, 1824, ยง 11,which was extended to Louisiana
by the act of June 17, 1844.
The proceedings upon this petition) as stated in the record,
appear to have b en irregular and confused, and it is unnecessary to state th im at large. It is sufficient to say, that the
district attornej demurred to the petition, setting forth various
causes of den urrer, that the petitioners afterwards amended
their petition, and that the district attorney again demurred;

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

105

Heirs of De Armas v. United Statep

and aftervarious other proceedings, the record states that "the
following judgment was entered on the.minutes: " The demurrers to the original and to the amended petition
of petitioners, submitted to the court yesterday, having been
considered by the court, it is now ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the 4th ground of demurrer set forth in the demurrer to" the original petition be sustained, and that the 1st, 2d,
3d, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th grounds set forth in said demurrer
be overruled, it appearing that said last-mentioned grounds
of demurrer have been removed by petitioners' amended petition.
"It is further ordered,.that the 1st and 2d -grounds of demurrer, set forth in the demurrer of respondents to the amended petition of petitioners, be sustained, and that the 3d ground
of demurrer, set forth in said demurrer to said amended petition, be overruled."
The grounds of demirrer sustained by the District Court
were, that the petition was multifarious, and that the names of
the persons claiming or in possession of the land which the petitioners alleged belonged to them were not set forth.
The appeal was taken from the judgment above recited.
But evidently that judgment is not a final judgment or decree.
For the petition is not dismissed, nor is the title of the petitioners to the land claimed by them finally adjudicated, nor
their right to locate the same number of arpens upon the publie domain. Nothing is decided but a question of pleading and
a question as to proper parties. The petition appears to be still
pending in the District Court ; and the objections upon which
the court decided against the petitioners might be removed, if
the appellants desired it, by an application to the court for
leave to amend. But if the petitioners did not move for leave
to amend, and preferred taking the opinion of this court upon
the questions decided against them in the District Court, then;
under the opinion given by that court upon the demurrer, it
should have proceeded to pass a final decree dismissing the bill.
An appeal from that decree would have brought the case legally before this court, and authorized it to examine the grounds
upon which the decree had been made.
But as there is no final judgment or decree, we have no jurisdiction, and consequently the appeal must be dismissed.
Order.
This'cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court .of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel; and it appearing to
the court here that there has been no final judgmcnt or decree

106

SUPREME COURT.
United States v, Curry et al.

of the said District Court in this cause, it is thereupon now
here ordered and decreed by this court, that this appeal be and
the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

TH

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

v.

GARLAND.

THOMAS CURRY AND RICE

The 9th section of the act of.26th May, 1824, relative to the action of the Attorney-General in cases of appeal, is only directory, and its non-observance does
not vitiate an appeal, provided it be taken by the district attorney and sanctioned in this court'by the Attorney-General.
Azi attorney or solicitor cannot withdraw his name, after it has been entered
upon the record, without the leave of the court, and the service of a citation
upon him, in case of'appeal, is as valid as if served on the party himself.
The opinion of the court in the case of ViUabolos v. The United States (ante, p. 81)
again asserted; viz. that the appellant must prosecute his appeal to the next succeeding term of this court, and whenever the appeal is taken by entering it in
the clerk's office, the adverse party must be cited to appear at that time.
-Therefore, where an appeal was filed in the clerk's office in November, 1846, and
there was no citation to the adverse party to appear on the 7th of December,
1846 (the commencement of the succeeding term of this court), the case was not
removed upon that appeal.
Aparty may take a second appeal where the first has not been legally prosecuted.
Dut in the present case, the order of the court cannot be construed as a grant of
a second appeal.
The appeal must therefore be dismissed, on motion.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Louisiana, involving the title to a large body of land
in that State. The proceedings of the District Court are
sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the court and in the
argument of Mi. Curry, to which the reader is referred.
Mr. Curry moved to dismiss the appeal, as having been
irregularly brought up.
The motion was argued by Mr. Curry and Mr. Jones, in
favor of it, and Mr. Clifford, Attorney-General, against it.
Mr. Curry said that the proceedings in this case were had
under the law of Congress, passed the 26th May, 1824, "enabling claimants to land (within the State of Missouri, &c.) to
institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims," &c. :
which is revived by the act of the 17th June, 1844, by "An
act- to provide for the adjustment of land claims within the
The first of these acts is in the
States of Louisiana, &c."
4th volume of the Statutes at Large, p. 52; the last one is to
be found in the 5th volume of the same work, p. 676.
The appeal is from the United States District Court for
Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity, under the provisions of
the first-recited act.

