550

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

The West River. Bridge Company, Plaintiffs in error, V. The
Towns of Brattleboro' and Duinmerston, in the County of
Windham, and Joseph Dix, Asa Boyden, and Phineas Underwood.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
of Vermont, and the Chancellor of the first Judicial Circuit of
the said State of Vermont, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court of
Judicature and Chancellor of the first Judicial Circuit of the
State- of Vhnont in this cause b~e and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

CHARLES PATTERsoN, ArrELLANT,

v. EDMUND P.

GAINES AND WIFE.*

Te opinion of this court in the case of Gaines v. Relf and Chew, (2 Howard
619,) reviewed.
A court of eqtiity can decide the question whether or not a party is the heir of a
deceased person. It is not necessary to send the issue of fact to be tried by a
court of law.
Where a marriage took place in Pennsylvania, it must be proved by the laws of
Pennsylvania. In that State it is a civil contract, to be completed by any words
in the present tense, without regard to form. and every intendment is made in
favor of legitimacy.
Where the complainant in a bill offers to receive an answer without oath, and the
defendant accordingly filed the answer without oath, denying the allegations of
the bill, the complainant is not put to the necessity, according to the general
rule, of contradicting the answer by the evidence of two witnesses or of one
witness with corroborating circumstances. The answer, being without oath, is
not evidence, and the usual rule does not apply.
In this case, however, even if the answer had been under oath and had denied the
allegations of the bill, yet there is sufficient matter in -the evidence of one witness, sustained by corroborating circumstances, to support the bill.
A marriage may be proved by any one who was present and can identify the
parties. If the ceremony be performed by a person habited as a priest, and
per verba de presenti, the person performing the ceremony must be presumed to
have been a clergyman.
If the fact of marriage be proved, nothing can impup the legitimacy of the issue,
short of the proof of facts showing it to be impossible that the husband could be
the father.
By the laws of Louisiana ind Pennsylvania, a marriage between a woman and a
man who had then anotheTr wife living was void, and the woman could marry
again without waiting for a judicial sentence to be pronounced declaring the
-marriage to be void.
If she does so marry again, and the validity of her second marriage be contested,
upon the ground that she was unable to contract it because the first marriage
was legal, it is not necessary for her to produce the record of the conviction of
* Mr. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause, a near family relative being
interested in the event.
Mr. Justice McLean did not sit in this cause.
Mr. JustiCe Catron did not sit-in this cause, by reason of indisposition.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

551

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.
her first husband for bigamy. The burden of proof lies upon those who make
these objections to the second marriage, and the declarations of the bigamist, that
he had a first wife living when he married the second, are evidenae.
When, in the progress of a suit in equity, a question of pedigree arises, anal there
is proof enough, in the opinion of the court, to establish the marri~e of the ancestor, the presumption of law is that a child born after the marriage is legitialthoughin
mate, and it will be incumbent on him who denies it to disprove it,
s
so doing he may have to prove a negative.
Although the'general rule is that a person cannot he affected, much less convicted,
by any evidence, decree, or judgment to which he was not actually or in consideration of law privy, yet it has been so fardeparted from as that wherever
reputation would be admissible evidence, there a verdict between strangers in a
former action is evidence also.
Although by the code of Louisiana a person holding property by sale from a
donee of an excessive donation is liable to the forced heir only after an execution first had against the property of the donee, yet this rule does not apply to
cases where the sale was made without any authority, j idicial or otherwise.
Where sales are made without this authority, the purchaser is presumed to have
notice of it. It is his duty to inquire whether or not the requisitions of law
were complied with.
The statute, of limitations which was in force when the suit was brought is that
which determines the right of a party to sue.
By the Louisiana code of 1808, a deceased person could not, in 1811, dispose of
more than one fifth of his property, when he had a child. The child is the
forced heir for the remaining four fifths.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for East Louisiana.
It was a branch of the case of Gaines and Wife v. Chew
and others, which is reported in 2 Howard, 619.
In the history of that case it is said (2 Howard, 627), that
in 1836, Myra- (then Myra Whitney, and now Myra Gaines)
"filed a joint.bill with her husband, in the Circuit Court> of
the United States for he District of Louisiana, against Relf
and Chew, the executors in the will of 1811, the heirs of Mary
Clark, and all the purchasers and occupants of the estate of
which Clark died in possesgion, tlaiming to be the heir and
devisee of Clark, and calling upon them all to account for the
rents and profits of the shveral portions of the estate."
The joint bill, thus filed against a number of persons, was

treated differently by the respondents.

Some pursued one

Relf and Chew, the executors,
course and some another.
demurred generally, and upon the argument of"the demurrers,
some questions arose upon which, the judges differed in

opinion.

These questions were consequently certified to the

Supreme Cour, and the answers to them constitute the case
reported in 2 Howard, 6.19. Patterson was one of the occupants and purchasers of a part of the property of which Clark
died seized, and he chose to answer the bill. The proceedings
of the court under this answer are now under consideration.

The history of Zuline Carriere, the mother of Mrs. Gaines,
is briefly given in 2 Howard, 620, and need -not be repeated,
The facts are there stated, of her marriage.with a man by the

•552

SUPREM~E COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

name of De Grange; of her afterwards learning that De Grange
had a foimer wife living; of her separation from him and
journey to New York to obtain proofs of this first marriage of
De Grange; of De Grange's first wife arriving in New Orleans
from France; of De Grange being committed to prison on a
"charge of bigamy,, and subsequent escape from the country;
of'Clark's mariage with Zuline in Philadelphia; of the birth
of Myra, the complainant in the present suit; of Clark's placing her in the family of Mr. and Mrs. Davis; of the circumstances attending the making of the will of 1811; and some
of the testimony relating to a subsequent will made in 1813,
leaving all his property to his daughter Myra. The statement
of. these things in '2 Howard is referred to, as being a more particular narrative than the mere outline which" is here given.
We propose to take up the case where that 'report left it.
"The record in the present case was in a very confused condition. Papers were misplaced, and the entire record of proceedings in the Court of Probates, from 1834 to June 8, 1836,
was introduced as evidence by the defendant, Patterson, in
the 6ircifit Court; and also the proceedings of that court at
a much earlier date. From them the following facts appear.
Clark died on the 16th of August, 1813. On the 18th of
August, two days afterwards, the -following petition was presented to.th6 Court of Probates.
To the Honorable the Judge of the Court' of Probates of the
Parish of New Orleans.
The petition of Frafcisco Dusuan de Ia Croix, of this parish,
planter,. respectfully shows:
That your petitioner has strong reasons to believe, and does
verily believe, that the late Daniel Clark has made a testament
or codicil,, posterior to that which has been opened before your
honorable court, and in the dispositions whereof he thinks to
be interested. And whereas- it is to be presumed that the
double of this Jast will, whose- existence was known by several persons, might have been deposited with any notary public
of this city.
Your petitioner, therefore, prays that it may please your
Hondr to order, as it is the. usupl practice in such cases, that
every. notary public in -this city~appear before your honorable
court within the delay of twenty-four hours, in order to certify
on oath if there does or does not exist, in his' office, any testament or codicil, or any sealed packet, deposited by the' said
la6"Daniel Clark.
And your petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c.
D. SaEGREs,
(Signed;) "

Of Ceonsel for Ike Petitioner.

JANTYAItY .TARM, 1848.

553

.Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

Francisco Dusuan de la Croix, the above petitioner, maketh
oath that the material facts in the, abuve- petition set forth
are true, to the'best of his knowledge and belief.

(Signed,)

Dusuiu

DE LA CROIX.

Sworn to before me, August 18th, 1813.
THos, B.AL, Reg. Wills.
The court ordered the notaries of the city-to appear before
it on the next day, when'seven appeared and deposed that no
testament nor.codicil, nor sealed packet, had been deposited in
their office by the late Daniel Clark,- nor had any deposition,
causa, been made by him.
. wrris
The will of .1811 wa then admitted to probate. It was
as
follows: .Daniel Clark. In the name of God: I,. Daniel Clark, of
New. Orleans, do make this my last &ill and testament.
Imprimis. I order that all my just debts be paid.
Second. I leave and bequeathe unto my mother, Mary Clark,
now of Oermantown, in the State of Pennsylvania, all the
estate,: whether real or personal, which I may die possessed of.
Third. I hereby nominate my friends, Richard Relf aftd
Beverly Chew, my executori, with powei to settle every thing
relating to my estate.
DAN=L CLAK.
(Signed,)
Ne varietfir. New Orleans, 20th 3ky, .1811;
J. PIToT, Jidge.
itters testamentary were grantd *to Reif on the 27th of
August, 1813, and to Chew on the 21st of January, 1814, the
latter being absent (ftom New Orleans at the time of. Clark's
death.
Davis .hadremoved to the North, with his.family, in 1812,
carrying with him Myra, who passed for his daughter and bore
his name.
Things remained in this condition until 1832, when Myra
married William Wallace Whitney, and about the time of l:ar
marriage became.acquainted with her true name and parentage.
In 1834, Whitney and wife commeneed a series of proceedings in the Court of .Probates, which continued until the 8th
of June, 1836, when the court -dismissed their, petition. It
has been already stated, that this entire recbrd was introduced
into the case now under consideration by the defendant, Patterson,, on the 1.3th of August, .1840. Many depositions were
taken, which constitute a.part of the mass of evidence .in the
case, althofigh some of the witnesses were reexamined under
-the authority of-a commission issuing from the Circuit Court
47
VOL. V1.

554

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

of the United States, after the filing of the bill. They who were
thus reexamined were Harriet Smith, alias Harper, Madame
Caillaret, the sister of Zuline, Belle Chasse, and De la Croix.
They whose depositions were not taken-over again were Bois
Fontaine, Mr. and Mrs. .Davis, Pitot, Derbigny, Madame Benguerel, and Preval. The evidence of Madame Despau, another
.sister of Zuline, was only taken once, and then under a commission issuing from the Circuit Court.
It is not necessary to give a particular narrative of the proceedings before -the 'Court of Probafes, from 1834 to June,
1836. They were commenced in March, 1834, by a ptition
fied by. Charles W ..Shaumburg for letters of administratibn
upon the estate of Clark, on 1he ground that the sudcessiori
Was in an inclaimed and abd.ndoned condition, and that he had
an interest in the settlement of the same. This petition was
opposed: by Relf and Chew. On the 18th of June, 1834
Whitney and wife became parties, by filing a petition praying
that the will of 1811 might be annulled and set aside, that
-Myra Clark Whitney might be declared to be the heir of Clark;
-andthat Rif and Chew might..be ordered to deliver ov'er the
estate to her, &c.
On tt~e 14th of Januuy, 1835, Relf and Chew filed an
answer to this petition, denying that Myra had, any claim;
that Clark, was ever legally married, or that he ever had any
legitimate offspring; and denying all the other allegations
generally.I
In. the course of this Controversy many depositions were
taken.
On the 8th-Qf June, 1836, the Cotirt of Probates pronounced.
its judgment, nonsuiting the plaintiffs.
On the 28th of*July, 1836, Whitney and wife ified a bill on
the equity side of -the Circuit Court of the United States,
against Relf and Chew; the executois under the will of 1811,against the heirs of Mary Clark, and all the occupants and
purchasers of 'the estate of which "Claik died in possession.
The bill charged that the will- of 1813 was fraudulently suppressed, that its existence and suppression were notorious, and
that. all the pufchasers did, in their consciences, believe that
the will of 1811. had beern fraudulentl.y.admitted to probate..
It moreover stated the whole case, of which an butline has
been given, alleging, also, that the sales made by Reif and
Chew were illegally made.
Relf and Chew demurred- generally- and also pleaded to the
jurisdiction of the court. The proceedings in that branch of
the case are set forth in 2 Howard, 619. Other defendants pursued other measures of defence, which it is-not now necessary
to mention.

JANUARY TERM, .1848.

555

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

On the 12ih of December, 1837., Whitney's death was suggested, and- the suit continued -in the name, of Myra alone.
Of the 24th of May, 1839, Edmund P. Gaines and Myra, his
wife, filed.a supplemental bill, stating their intermarriage, and
praying that the suit might be continued in their joint names
as complainants.
On.'the 18th of April, 1840; the complainants filed an
amended bill, praying that Caroline de Grange,and her hus'band, John: Barnes, might be *made defendants to the original
bill.
On the 21st of April, 1840, Patterson ified his answer, which
was not under oath, but signed by his counsel-, in conformity
with'the waiver of 'the complainats. The answer denied allright and title of the complainants in and to the following'
des*cribed. piece or lot of.ground situated on 'Philippa. Street,
between Perdido and Poydras Streets. having front, on'Philippa
Street, one hundred and. twenty-five feet French measure,' by
seventy feet in depth, the -same being in a square of ground
situated in Suburb St. Mary-, of this city, now the- second
municipality of New'Orleans, and -bounded by. Philippa, Circus, Petdido, and Poydras Streets..
It alleged that.the property belonged to Clark in his lifetime, and was legaIly sold by. Relf -and 'Chew, his executors,and denied all the allegations f the bill.
On: the 25th of April, 1840, Patterson fied the following
supplemental answer':"The supplemental answer of Charles Patterson, one of the
defendants in the above-entitled suit, most resp~ctfully represents "That the property described in his original answer is ninety
feet in depth, instead of severty-five, French measure, as therein stated, and .further represents that your'respondents ptirchased a part of said property from Gabriel Correjollas, and the
remainder from Etienne. Meunier, and that the said Meunier
purchased from the said. Correjollas, and the -said Correjollas
purchased all the said property at an auctibn sale made in the
yeat 1820 by the testamentary executoks of the late Daniel
Clark, all of which facts will more fully appear from the four
several copies .of the authentic.deed o sale hereunto annexed
-as a part of this supplemental answef. And. this respondent
.prays that this supplement be made a part of his original
answer."
To this answer the deeds referred to were attached as
exhibits.-

556

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson
v. Gaines et ux.
iI-

As the claim of Mrs. Gaines in the present case was made,
not as devisee under the will of 1813, but as forced heir under
the .Civil Code of 1808, ch. 3, -see. 1, art. 19, whith pro-hibilts a testator from willing away more than one fift4 of his
property if there is a legitimate -child. living at the time of
his death, it is only necessary to insert in this stitement sich
of the depositions as have a bearing upon the marriage 6f
Clark,.and the consequent legitimacy of his daughtepMUrra.
Madame Despau and Madame Caillaret were sisters of Zuline, and examined under a.commission, issuing from the United
States court.
Their evidence was as follows.
Interrogatories to be propounded, on behalf of Complainantn, to John Sibley, Madame Caillaret, Madame- Despau,
and Mrs. Eliza Clark.
1st. Were you, or not, acquainted with the lite Daniel Clark
of 'New Orleans?
2d. Was the said Daniel -Clark ever married?, if so, when
and to whom, and was there any issue of said figriage ?
State all you may know or have heard of said Clark upon this
subject. .
3d. Were you acquainted with a man in New Orleabs by
the name of De Grange? if so, when and where have you
known him'? Was he, or not, married when he first came to
New Orleans, and did he, or not, so continue until after he
finally left it? State all you may know or have heard touching this subject.
4th. If you, know any thing further material to the complainants in the controversy, state it.
Cross-interrogatories.
1. Will you and each of you' answering any interrogatories
of the complainants state your age, employment, and present
residence, and if a married womah state your maiden name;
and if married, more than once state the names of y6,ur husbands, and by whom and when and where you resided during
each year from 1810 to 1814?'
2. If you answer the first interrogatory in. chief affirmatively, state how that acquaintance, originated. When and where
did 'you first see Mr. Daniel Clark? Was your acquaintance
with him intimate or not? Was it ever interrupted,..and-J so,
for 'what- reason? Did it *continue uninterrupted -Tuntfl the
death of Mr. Clark, and if so,'how long a period did it embrace? Do you say that your intimacy with Mr. Clark was of
such a nature as to enable you. to become acquainted with

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

557

Patterson v. G-aines et ux.

events in hik life which were not-disclosed to the entire circle
of his 'acquaintance ? and if so, have you a distinct recollection.of any such event or events? and state the circumstances
Which strengthen your memory on this poi.nt.
3. Will you state where Mr. Clark resided when in New
Orleans? Do you recollect the street and the house? Did he
board or keep- house? If he boarded, did he also lodge at the
same house,.and if so, who was the keeper of this hQuse, and
what was his or her general character? If he had a house, did
he have a housekeeper, and if so, what was his or her general
.character)- *Did he reside in New Orleans during the summer
months, and if not, where did he go? At whose house did he
stop, or whom did he visit? and state what you knQw of the
people whom he visited, and his own standing in society.
4. If, in answering the second interrogatory, you say that
Mr. Daniel Clark was ever married, state when, where, and to
whom. By what- priest, clergyman, or magistratej and who
were the witnesses present? Were you among the witnesses?
What other witnesses were present -with you? 'Did you ever
see the lady whom you say Mr. Clark married, and if so, what
was her personal appearance, her age, and name, and, family?
Where did she reside beforq the time yousay she was married .
to"Mr. Clark? How long did you know her before that time-?
Or were you acquainted with her until then? Did not' Mr.
Clark introduce her to you? State particularly every thing-you
know in regard to the.connection of Mr. Clark with the lady
whom you call his wife, and state if, she was ever married
biefore or after -the time you say she was married to Mr. Clark;
if so, when, where, and to whom ?
5. Did you ever know that there was any issue 6f said smpposed marriage? if so, Who told you? State your means of
knowing any thing about this circumstahee. What was the:name, agie, sex, and the'time of the bfi th of the child whose
father you. say was Mr. Clark? Do you know who nursed and
*reared this child, and if so, wrho was the nurse? State, if you
please, if you saw the mother shortly after this child was born,
and if so, where was she? Did she reside then at the house
of Mr. Clark, and if not, why not, and where 'did she reside ?
Did Mr. Clark live with her at this time, and were they known
generally to the neighbours as man and wife?
" 6. Was this supposed marriage of Mr. Clark's (if you say
he ever was married) public or lrivate ?I If public, did Mr..
Clark introduce his wife to his friends and acquaintances in
New Orleans? And if she was not introduced, state why she
was not. Or was his marriage private? If so, why was it
private?. And what circumstances could, or did, probably
4$7*

5SUPREME

COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

induce him, to keep that marriage secret from his friends and
the public ?
7. Do you know Myra C. Whitney, one of the complainants
in this controversy? If so, how long have you been acquainted with her? Did either .of the complainants inform
you, by letter or otherwise, that your testimony 'would be -important to them in this suit? and if so, on What points did they
wish you to be prepared ?
8. If, in answering the third interrogatory, you say that you
were 'acquainted with a man in New Orleans by the name of
De Grange, state, if .you please, where and when you first
became, acquainted with him, in what Year. Were you intimate with him, and if so, did this intimacy continue-without
interruption ? Was. he born in the city of New Orleans? and
if not, where was he born, and how long did he remain in said
city? What was his employment? Was he -married in New
Orleans, or where was. he married? Were you present at his
marriage ? and if so, state when and by whom he was married.
Have you ever seen his wife, and if so, what was her personal
appearance and age, and what was her name prior to her marriage with De Grange? Did you ever see De Grange's wife
and the lady whom. you say Mr. Clark married in company
together? if so, when and where, and how often? State partidularly every thing, you know touching said De Grange, his
wife, and their connection or relation with Mr. Clark.
9. 'Did you ever, or not, hear Mr. Clark acknowledge that he
had any natural children in ,New- Orleans ? and particularly,
did you ever, or not, hear him acknowledge two female children,
-the
one named Caroline and the other named Myra? And
is, or not, that Myra one of the complainants in this case? Did
you ever hear him say that he intended to leave by will money
or property enough to Myra to take the stain off her birth ?
If you heard him -use such expressions, or those of a similar
character, state what you suppose he meant by taking off the
stain from the birth of his own legitimate daughter.
10. Will you state who was the mother of the complainant,
Myra? And did the mother nurse Myra? if not, why not?
Who did nurse her? Did her mother die, and leave-her an
infant, or was she too sick-and too feeble to nurse that child?
Did the mother of Myra, the complainant, nurse and raise her,
or not? If not, who did? Mention particularly any and all
the circumstances on which you found your opinion.
11. If you know when the complainant Myra was born,
state the precise date and place, and state -if you know by
whom and where she -was raised, and whose name she bore,
and why she bore that name.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

559

Patterson v.. Gaines et ux.

'12. State, if you please, what are your feelings and affections towards the complainants ; whether you are related to or
connected with either of them; and if you are, how and in
what degree or way, and whether you have any interest in the
event of this suit.
13. Will bach one of you, answering any of these direct or
cross interrogatories, state whether you have seen or examined,
read or heard read, any one of them, or copies of them, at any
time or place, bef6re you were called upon by the commission.er to answer them? If ay, state when, where, and by whom
they were thus so" shown or read to or by you, and for what
purpose. State, also, each one of you, whether you have had
any conversation or correspondence, within the last three or
four Yeais, with the complainants, -or with either of them, respecting their supposed. claims against the estate of Daniel
Clark,. and if you.answer affirmatively, state why, when, and
where such conversation or correspondence occurred, and the

nature and amount of them so far as your memory will serve
you; and wi o was present at such conversations. If you have
any letters from the domplainants, or from either of them, on
the matters 'referrcd to in these direct and cross interrogatories,
annex them to your answers if possible,; and if not possible,
-state why. If you have preserved and cannot .annex them,
give true extracts from them, and f that, be not possible, state
your recollections.
14. 'What is your maternal language? If not English, do
you understand that language perfectly? -And if'you do not
understand English, how have you contrived to answer the
foregoing chief and cross interrogatories? Who has translated
them to you?
Answers of Mladame Despau.
Answer to the first interrogatory.
I-was well acquainted with. the late Daniel Clark of New
Orleans.
Answer.to the second interrogatory.
Daniel Clark wag married in Philadelphia,.in 1803, by a
Catholic priest. 1 was present at this mnarriage. One child was
born of that marriage, to wit, Myra Clark, who married William Wallace Whitney, son of General .T. Whitney of the
State of New York. I was preserit at 'her birth, and knew
that Mr. Clark claimed and acknowledged her to be his child.
She was born in '1806. I neither knew, nor had any reason
to believe, any other child besides Myra was born of -that marriage. The circumstances of her marriage with Daniel Clark

560

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

-

were these. Several years after hdr marriage with Mr. De
Grange she heard-that he had a living wife. Our family
charged him with the crime of bigamy in marrying the said
Zuline; he at first denied it, but afterwards admitted it, and
fted from the country; these circumstai ces became public, ard
Mr. 'Clark made proposals of marriage to, my sister, with th6
knowledge of all our family. It was considered essenhial, first,
to obtain record proof of De Grange having a. living wife at
the time he married my sister, to obtain which from the records
of the Catholic church in New York (where Mr. De Grange's
prior marriage was celebrated) we sailed for that city. On our
arrivvl there, we found that the registry of marriages had been
destroyed. .,Mr. Clark arrived after us. We heard that a Mr.
Gardette, then living in Philadelphia, was one of the witnesses
of Mr. De Grange's prior marriage. We proceeded to that
city, and found Mr. Gardette; he answered, that he was present
-at said prior marriage of De Grange,. and that he afterwards
'knew De Grange and his wife by-this marriage, -that this
wife had sailed for France. Mr. Clark then said, "You have no
reason longer-to refuse being married to me. It will, however,
be necessary to keep our marriage secret till I have obtained
judicial proof of the nullity of your and De Graiige's marriage."
They, the said Clark and the said Zuline, were then married.
Soon afterwards, our sister, Madame Caillaret, wrote to us from
New Orleans that-De Grange's wife whom, he had -married
prior to marrying the said Zuline, had arrived at New Orleans.
We ihhsteued our return to New Orleans. He was prosecutdd
for bigamy, -Father Antoine of the Catholic church in New
Orleans taking part in "the proceedings against De Grange.
Mr. De Grange. was condemned for bigamy in marrying the
said Zuline, and was cast into .prison, from which he secretly
escaped by connivance, and was taken down the Mississippi
River by Mr. Le Briten d'Orgeiois,- where he' got to a vessel,
escaped from the country, and, according to the best of my
knowledge andjbelief, never afterwards returned to Louisiana;
this happened in 1803, not a .great while before the close of
the Spanish government in Louisiana. Mr. Clark told us that,
before he. could promulgate his marriage with my sister, it
would be fiecessary'that there should be brought by her an acti6nt against the hame of De. Grange. The anticipated change
of government crbated delay, but at - length, in 1806, Messrs.
James Brown and Eligeas Fromentin, as the counsel of my
sister, brought suit against" the nami .of Jerome de Grange in
the city court, I think, of New 0rleans. The grounds of said
suit were, that said De- Grange had. imposed himself in.marriage upon her at a time when he had living a lawful wife.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

561

Patterson-v. Gaines et ux.

Judgment in said suit was rendered against said De Grange..
Mr. Clark still continued to defer 'promulgating his marriage
with my sister, which very much fretted and irritated her feelings. Mr. Clark became a member of the United States Congress.in 1806. While. he was in Congress, my sister heard
that he was courting Miss -- * of Baltiniore. She was distressed, though she could not believe the report, knowing herself to be his wife; still, his strange conduct in deferring to
promulgate his marriage with her had alarmed her; she and I
sailed for Philadelphia, to get the proof of his marriage with
my sister. We could find no record, and were told that the
priest who married her and Mr. Clark ivas gone to .Ireland.
My sister then sent for Mr. Daniel W. Coxe, and mentioned to
him the rumor. He answered, that he knew it t6 be true tliat
he (Clark) was engaged to her. My sister replied, it could not
be so. He then told'her that she would not be able to'establish.
h~r marriage with -Mr. Clark, if he were disposed to contest it.
He advised her to take couhnsel, and said he Would send one; a
Mr. Smythe came, and told my sister that she could not legally
establish her marriage with- Mr. Clark, and pretended to read
to her a letter in English (a language then unknown to my
sister) -rom Mr. Clark to Mr. Coxe, stating that he was about
to marry Miss
In consequence of this information, my.
sister- Zuline came to the resolution of having no further
communication or intercourse with Mr. Clark, and soon afterwards married Mr. Gardette of Philadelphia.
-

Answer to the third interrogatory.
I became acquainted with Mr. Jerome de Grange in 1793,
when, as I understood, he first cameL to New Orleans. He was
a .nobleman by birth, and passed for a single or .uimarried
man; and courted and married Zuline, nie De Carrier e, at the
age of thirteen, the same who is the mother of Myra Clark
Whitney. Zuline had-two hildren by him, a boy and a girl;
the-boy died; the girl Is still living, her name is Caroline; :he
is married to a physician by the name of Barnes. I was present at the birth of these children.
Answer to the fourth interrogatory.
I am not aware of knowing other important matter to the
complainants in this cause.
Answer to the first cross-interrogatory.
My name is Sophie Veuve Despau, n6efDe Carriere. . My
deceased husband'was a planter. I was born in.Louisiana. My
* The name is omitted by the Reporter.

562

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

age is sixty-two. I now reside in Beloxi; from 1800 to 1814,
I resided in Louisiana, in Philadelphia, and in Cuba.
Answer to the second cross-interrogatory.
I first knew Daniel Clark in New Orleans; his being the
husband of my sister, Zuline de Carriere, placed me on a footing of intimacy with him during the time of their intercourse;
that intimacy was afterwards interrupted by their separation.
Answer to the third cross-interrogatory.
I had reason to know that Mr. Clark, at different tines, lived
in different houses in New Orleans. I have before said that he
did not give publicity to his marriage with said Zuline. He
kept a very handsome establishment for her in New Orleans,
and was in the habit of visiting her.
Answer to the fourth cross -interrogatory.
I have already stated that Mr., Clark was married, to my sister, Zuline de Carriere, that I was present at her marriage (a
private one), in Philadelphia. Besides myself, Mr. Dorvier of
New Orleans, and an Irish gentleman, a friend of Mr. Clark's,
from New York, were present at his marriage. A Catholic
priest performed the marriage ceremony. I have already before stated, that Zuline was married to Mr. Jerome de Grange
before her marriage with Mr. Clark, and that thereafter-she
was married to Mr. Gardette of Philadelphia.
Answer to the fifth cross-interrogatory.
I have already stated that I knew Myra Clark to be the issue,
and the only issue, of the marriage of Zuliue de Carriere and
Daniel Clark. A few days after the birth of Myra Clark, she
was placed by her father under the care of Mrs. Davis, the
wife of Colonel S. B. Davis, with whom she lived until -her
marriage with Mr. Whitney. I have heard that Colonel Davis
concealed from the said Myra her true history, and that she
bore his name after her father's death. Zuline and Mr. Clark
occupied different houses in New Orleans, but he always visited
her, as heretofore mentioned, at her own house; their marriage
was known only to a few friends; M-r. Clark told me that he
had informed Colonel S. B. Davis, Mr. Daniel W. Coxe, and
Mr. Richard Relf; of his marriage with my sister Zuline.
Answer to the sixth cross-interrogatory.
I always understood and believed, at least for the first years
of his marriage, that Mr. Clark was prevented from making it
public on account of. her unfortunate marriage with Mr. De
Grange. His pride was great, and his standing was of the

JANUARY TEAIK 1848.

50

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.,

highest order in society, and that pride might have suggested
his opposition to the promulgation of his marriage. He, however, always manifested by his conversations, which I frequently heard, thb greatest affection for his daughter Myra,
Answer to the seventh cross-interrogatory.
I have already stated my knowledge of Myra Clark Whitney
from her birth. As I never made any secret of my knowledge
of her being the daughter of Daniel Clark, nothing was more
likely than she and her late husband should hear of my acquaintarice with her parentage, and many circumstances connected with it, as already related. And on this it was, I presume, that I have been called, upon to. give testimony in this
affair. But neither of -them, nor any body else, ever dared to
ask of me any declarations in the least inconsistent with truth
and justice.
Answer to the eighth cross-interrogatory,
I have already in my formqer answers stated, particularly the
third and fourth, my knowledge of Jerome de Grange, and of
his'first and second marriages. Before the detection of his
bigamy, said Zifline had a son who -died, and a daughter
called Caroline, which bore his name. Since the death, of
Mr. Daniel Clark, Mr. Daniel W. Coxe and Mr. Hulings of
Philadelphia gave her the name of Caroline Clark, and took
her to Mr. Clark's mother, and introduced her as the daughter
of her. son. She of course believed their story, which induced her, in her will, to leave a portion of her property to
Caroline. Caroline was born in 1801. I. was present at her
birth, as well as that of her brother.
Answer to the ninth cross-interrogatory.
I never'heard Mr. Clark acknowledge his having any natural children, but have only heard him acknowledge one' ciild,
and that a lawful one, to wit, said Myra.
Answer to the tenth cross-interrogatory.
I have blready given a full account of the mother of Myra,
and of, Myra herself, and her being with Mrs. Davis . I have
stated all that I know of these matters, as called for by this
interrogatory.
Answer to the eleventh cross-interrogstory.
The information called for by this interrogatory bis aleady
been given.

564

SUPREME. COURT.
Patterson v. Gain'es et ux.

Answer to the twelfth cross-interrogatory.
.1 have already before stated myself to bethe sister of :Nyra's
mother. My feelings towards Myra are those bf friendship
and all becoming regard. I wish, howevei, that justice only
-be done towards her, but' in or by the issue of the suit I have
nothing to gain or lose.
Answer to the thirteenth cxoss-interrogatory.
I have never jeen or heard read the interrogatories or crossinterrogatories referred to, before called upon to answer them.
Any conversations that I have had about this affair I have
already given an account of.
Answer to the fourteenth cross-interrogatory.
My natural language is French; but my nephew is well acquainted with the English language, and when in need of.a
translator, I apply to him.
(Signed,)
SOPHIE VE. D.ESPAU, NIAE DE CAIrIEPX.
Which answers, being reduced to writing, have been signed
and sworn to in my presence, this twenty-eighth day of June,
A. D. 1839. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this the day and year above written.
(Signed,)
HoLMES P. WENTZELL,
. P. A.C. [L. s.]
One word erased on third page, also one word on fourth
page,; two words interlined on fourth page; twenty-five words
,erased on fifth page; one word interlined on sixth page, before
signing.
(Signed,)
H. P. WEN'TZELL,
J. P. H. C. [L. s.]
W. W. WHIThEY and MY.A'C. WHITNEY
BEVERLY CHEW, and others.
In pursuance of the annexed commission, issued from the
United States Circuit Court of the Easter.n District of Louisiana,
1, the undersigned, justice of the peace in Hancock county,
State of Mississippi, have caused to come before me Madame
Rose Yve. Caillaret, n6e De Carriere, who being duly sworn to
declare the tiruth on the, questions put to her in this cause, in,answer to the interrogatories annexed to said commission, says: -

RICIARD RFLF,

Answer to the first interrogatory.
I was well acquainted with the late Daniel Clark, of New

Orleans.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

565

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

Answer to the second interrogatbry.
I was not present at the -marriage of Zuliue, n~e De Carriere,
who is my sister, with Daniel Clark, but I do know that said
Clark made proposals of marriage for my sister, and subsequently said Zuline wrote to nue that she and said Clark were
married. ".Mr. Clark's proposals of marriage were made after it
became known that her marriage with Mr. De Grange was
void, from the fact of his having then, and at the time of his
marrying her, a living wife; these proposals were deferred
being accepted till the record proof of De.Grange's said previms marriage could be obtained, and said Zuline, with her
sister, Madame Despau, sailed for the North of the United
States, to obtain the record proof.
Answer to the third interrogatory.
I was acquainted with Mr. De Grange in New Orleans.. He
was considered an unmarried man on coming to New Orleans,
and as such imposed on my sister Zuline to marry him; but
it was afterwards proved he had a lawful wife still living.
After this imposition of said De Grafige, his said lawful wife
came to New Orleans, and detected and exposed his bigamy in
marrying the said Zuline, when he had a. living and lawful
wife at and before the time of his marrying Zuline. He was
prosecuted, condemned, and cast into .prison, and escaped privately from prison. He escaped from Louisiana, as it was
reported, by the Spanish- governor's connivance. Le -Breton
d'Orgenois was said to aid De Grange, in getting him off. This
happened some time'before the Americans took possession of
New Orleans.
ir. Clark's marriage with my sister Zuline
was after the detection of De Grange's bigamy. The birth of
their daughter, Myra Clark, was some years after the marriage.
Answer to the fourth interrogatory.
I am not aware of. knowing any thing more of importance
in this suit, except the marriage of said Zuline with .Mr. Gardette, of Philadelphia, before the death of Mr. Clark.
Answer to the first cross-interrogatory..
My name is Rose Veuve Caillaret, ne De Carriere. My age
is sixty-eight years. I was born in Louisiana, and resided
-some time in France after this marriage of Zuline and Mr.
Clark, and after that resided in the State of Mississippi.
Answer to the second cross-interrogatory.
I became acquainted 'with Mr. Clark in New Orleans. In
consequence of his attachment and marriage to my sister Zu-"
VOL. VI.
48

66

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines'et ux.

line, an intimacy subsisted between him and myself. Our
friendly intercourse continued during my residence in Nei.
Orleans.
Answer to the third cross-interrogatory.
When I resided in New Orleans, Mr. Clark lived in his 6wn
houses, with his own slaves to wait upon him. He had the
reputation of being a man of immense wealth. He stood at
the head of society, was considered a man of very great talents,
and much beloved for his benevolence.
Answer to the fourth cross-interiogatory.
I have already stated all I knew about Mr. Clark's marriage
with Zuline, and of her marriage with De Grange.- By this
marriage she had two children, a boy-and a girl. The boy is
dead, the girl is still living; her name is Caroline, and she is
married to Dr. Baines. I have already stated that said Zuline
also married Mr. Gardette.
Answer to the fifth cross-interrogatory.
It is to my knowledge, -that Myra Clark, who married M.
Whitney, isthe child, and'only child, of'Mr. Clark by Zuline.
de Carriere. It is to my knowledge, that Mr. Clark put his
daughter Myra under th6 chgge of Mrs.. Davis. Mr. Clark
acknowledged to me that Myra was his lawful and only child.
Mrs. William Harper nursed her for some time from kindness.
Mr. Clark's gratitude towards this lady, for nursing his child,
lasted with his life. Said Myra was brought upand educated
.inthe family of .Colonel Davis, and supposed herself their
child until within a few months of her marriage with Mr.
Whitney.
Answer to the sixth cross-ifiterrogatory.
I always heard that Mr. Clark's marriage with Zuline was'
private, and that he. did not promulgate it, unless he did so in
his last will, made -a little before his -death, and lost or purloined
after his death. Re never explained to me his reasons for not
publishing his marriage.in his lifetime.
Answer to the seventh cross-interrogatory.
I have known Myra Clark Whitney for some years, making
no secrdt about my knowledge I possessed ofi
the matters of
which I have herein spoken, and it being known that I was an
elder sister of Zuline. de Carriere. Therefore it was, I suppose, that I have been called on to testify in this cause; but no
one has ever taken the liberty to intimate a wish for me to
declare any thing but the truth.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

567

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

Answer to the eighth cross-interrogatory.
I have already said all-I know about Mr. De Grange.
Answer to the ninth cross-interrogatory.
1 never heard Mr. Clark make any acknowledgment of his
having any natural children; and I never heard of his. having
another child than Myra Clark Whitney, and which Mr. Clark
informed me was his lawful child.
Answer to the ienth cross-interrogatory.
I have already stated all I know as to the parentage and
nursing and educatiton of Myra Clark.
Answer to the eleventh cross-interrogatory.
I have already stated all I know about the parentage and
name of Myra Clark, except that I have heard that after her
father's death she was called Myra Davis.
Answer to the twelfth cross-interrogatory.
My feelings are friendly and kind towards Myra Clark Whitney, and I wish her such success only in her suit as is compatible with justice. I have no interest in the issue of it.
Answer to the thirteenth cross-interrogatory.
I[have never seen the interrogatories put to me until called

upon to answer them. I have already stated all I have to say
about my conversations. I am not aware of ever having any
correspondence with either of them on this subject.
Answer to the fourteenth cross-interrogatory.
French is my mother tongue, but my son is well acquainted
with the English language, and when in need of a translator, I
apply to him.
(Signed,)

YnuvE CAmLA ET, xPE RosE CAi i

.

As the opinion of the court refers also to the evidence of
Bois Fontaine, it is deemed proper to insert it.
Interrogatoriesand Answers of PierreBaron Bois Fontaine.
WM. WALLAcE WHrrNEY and MYmR C., his wife,

Court of

P. O'BEA.RI and others.

Probates.

Interrogatories to be propounded to Witnesses on Behalf of
the Plaintiffs.
1st. Were you acquainted with the late Daniel Clark, deceased, of:New Orleans? If so, were you at any time on terms
of intimacy with him?

. 568

SUPREME COURT.
Patters.on v. Gaines et ux.

2d. Did the said Daniel Clark leave at his death acv child
acknowledged by him as his own? If so, state the name of
such child, whether such child is still living, and if living,
what name it now bears; as also state when and where,,and
in what times, said acknowledgment of said child was made.
3d. Have' you any knowledge of a will, said to have been
executed by said Clark shortly before his decease? Did you
ever -read or see the said will, or did Daniel Clark ever tell you
that he was making said will, or had made said will? If so,
at what time and place, and if more than- once, state how
often, and when and where.
4th. If you answer the last question affirmatively, state
whether the said Daniel Clark ever declared to you, or to any
one in your presence, the c'ontents of said will. And if so,
state the wrhole of said declarations, and the time, place, and
manner in which they were made, before whom, and. all the
circumstances which occurred when such declaration was
made.
5th. State how long before his death you saw the said Daniel Clark, for the last time, how long before his death- le
spoke of his last will, and what he said in relation to his aforesaid child.
6th.: State whether you evex heard any one say he had read
the said will. If sc, state whom, what *as said, and whether
the said person is now living, or not.
WM. M. WORTEaNGTON,
(Signed,)
For Plaintif.
Oross-examined.
1st. Each witness examined, and answering any one of the
foregoing interrogatories,,is desired to-state his name, age, residence, and employment; and whether he is in any manner
connected with, or related to, any of the parties to the suit, or
has any interest in the event of the same.
2d. How long did you know Daniel Clark, and under what
circumstances ? And if you presume to state that Daniel Clark
left any child, at his decease, state who was the mother of-said.
child, and who was the husband of that mother. State all
the circumstances, fully and in, detail, and whether said Clark
was ever married, and if so, to whom, when, and where.
3d. If .said Clark ever acknowledged to you, that he supposed himself to be the father of a , child, state when and
where he made such an acknowledgment, and all the circumstances of the recognition of such a child or children, and
whether the act was public or private.
4th. Did said Clark consider you as an intimate friend, to

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

569

Patterson -v.Gaines et ux.

whom he might confide communications so confidential as
those relating to his will?. If ay, state what -you know, of
your own personal knowledge, of the contents of said will,
and be careful to.distinguish between what you state of your
own knowledge, and what from hearsay.
The defendants propound the foregoing interrogatories; with
a full reservation of all legal exceptions to the interrogatories
in chief, the same not being pertinent to the issue, and the last
of said interrogatories being calculated merely to draw from the
witness hearsay declarations.
(Signed,)
L. C. DuNcAN,
For Defendants.
In pursuance of the annexed commission, directed to me,
the undersigned, justice of the peace, personally appeared
Pierre Baron Bois Fontaine, who being duly sworn to declare.
the truth on the questions put to him in this cause, in answer
to the foregoing interrogatories, says: 1st. In reply to the first interrogatory he answers, -I
was.
acquainted with the late Daniel Clark of New Orleans, and
was many years intimate with him.
2d. In reply to the second interrogatory he answers, -Mr.
Clark left at his death a daughter named Myra, whom he
acknowledged as his own, before and after her birth, and as.,
long as he lived. In my presence he spole of the necessary
preparation for her birth, in my presence asked my.brother's
wife to be present at her birth, and in-my presence he proposed
to my sister and brother-in-law, Mr. S. B. Davis, that they
should take the dare of.her after -her birth. After her birth he
'acknowledged her to me as his own, constantly, and at various
places. He was very fond of her, and seemed to take pleasure
in talking to me about her.
When he communicated to me that he was making his last
will, he told me he should a~knowledge her in it as his legitimate daughter. The day before he died, he spoke of her with
great affection, and as being left -his estate in his last will.
The day he died, he spoke of her with the interest of a dying
paient, as heir of his estate in his last Will. She is still living,
and is now the wife of William Wallace Whitney.
3d. In reply to the third-interrogatory he answersy- About
fifteen days before Mr. Clark's death I was present at his house,
when he handed to Chevalier de la Croix a sealed packet, and
told him that his last will was finished, and was in that sealed
'packet.- About ten days. before this, he had told me that it was
dohe. Previous to this, comimencing about four inonths before
his death, he had often told me that he was making his last
48 *

570

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

will. .He said this in conversation with me on'the plantation,
and at his house; and I heard -him mention this subject at
-Judge. Pitot's. I frequently dined at Judge Pitot's with Mr.
Clark on Sundays. The day before he died, he told me thaf
his last will was below, in his office-room, in his little black
case. The day he died, he mentioned his last will to re.
4th. In reply to the fourth interrogatory, he answersi - I was
present at Mr. Clark's house about fifteen days before his death;
when he took from a small black case a sealed packet, .handed
it to Chevalier de la Croix, and said, "My last will is finished;
it is in this sealed packet,. with yaluable papers; as you consen'ted, I have made you in it tutor to my daughter. V any
misfortime happens to me, will- you do for her all you promised
me? Will you take her at once from Mr. Dkvis? I have
given her all my estate iii my will, an annuity to my mother,
and some legacies to friends. You, Pitot, and Belle Chasse, are
the executors." About ten days before this, Mr. Clark, talking
of Myra, said that his will was done.
Previous to this he often told me, commencing about four
months before his death, that he was making his last will. In
these conversations he told me that in his will he should acknowledge his daughter Myra as his legitimate daughter, and
give her all his property. He told me that Chevalier de la
Croix had consented to be her tutor in his will, and had promised, if he died before doing it, to go at once to 'the North, and
take her from Mr. Davis. That she was to be educated in
Europe. He told me that Chevalier de la Croix, Judge Pitot,
and Colonel Belle Chasse were to be executors in his willi Two
or three days hefore his death; I came to see Mr; Clark on plantation business; he told me he felt quite ill. I asked him if I
should remain: with him. He answered that he wished me to.
I went to the plantation to set things in order, that I might
stay with Mr. Clark, and returned, the -same day to Mr. Clark,
and stayed with him constantly till he died. The day before
he died, Mr. Clark, speaking of his daughter Myra, told. me that
his last will was in his office-room below, in the little black
case,; that he could die contented, as he had insured his estate
to her in the will. He mentioned 'his pleasure that he had
made his mother comfortable Ly an annuity in it, and remembered some f'iends by legacies.
He told me how well satisfied he was that Chevalier de la
Croix, Judge Pitot, and Belle Chasse were executors in it, and
Chevalier.de la Croix- Myra's tutor. About two hours before
his death, Mr. Clark showed strong feelings for said. Myra, and
told me that he wished his will to be taken to Chevalier de
]a Croix, as he was her tutor, as well as one of the executors

-JANUARY TERM? 1848.

571

Pitterozi... Gaines et ui.

in it; and just afterwards Mr. Clark told Lubin,.his confidential ser.ant, to be sure, as soon as he died, to carry his. little
black case to Chevalier'de la Croix.
After this, and a very short time before Mi. Clark died, I
saw Mr. Relf take a bundle of keys from Mr. Clark's armoire,.
one of which, I beli6ve, opened the little black case. I had
seen Mr. Clark open-it very often.
After taking these keys from the .armoire,Mr. Relf went below. When I went below, I did not see Mr. Relf, and the
office-room door was shut. Lubin told me that when Mr. Relf
went down with the keys from the armoire,-hefollowed, saw
him there on getting down go into the office-room, and that.
M'. Relf on going into the office-ropm locked the office-room
door. Almost Mr.. Clark's last words were, that his last will
Xnust be taken care of on said Myra's account.
5th. In reply :to the fifth interrogatory, he answers, - I was.
with Mr. Clark when le died; I was by him constantly for the
last two days of his life. About two hours before he died, he
spoke of his last will and his daughter Myra in connecti6n, and
almost his last words were about her, and that this will must.
be taken care of on her account.
6ih. In reply to the sixth interrogatory, he answers,.- When,
after Mr. Clark's death, the disappearance of his last will was
the subject of conversation, I related what Mr. Clark told me
about his last will in his last -sickness. Judge Pitot and John
Lynd told me that they. read it not many days before Mr.
Clark's last sickness ; that its contents corresponded with what
Mr. Clark had told me about it ; .that when they read it, it was
'finished, was dated, and-signed by Mr. Clark; was an olographic will; was in Mr. Clark's. handwriting; that in it he acknowledged the said Myra as his legitimate daughter, and bequeathed
all his estate to her, gave an anfuity to his mother, and legacies to some friends. • The Qhevalier de la Croix was tutor of
said Myra, his daughter; Chevalier de la Croix, Colonel Belle
Chasse, Judge. Pitot, were executors ;-Judge Pitot an& Jotm
Lynd are dead. The wife of William Harper told me she read
it; Colonel Belle-Chasse told. nie that Mr. 'Claik showed'it tj6
him not many days before his last sickness; that it was thenfinished. - Colonel Belle Chasse and the lady, who was Madame
Harper, are living.In reply to the first cross-interrogatory, he -answers, -My
name is Pierre Baron Bois Fontaine, my age about fifty-eight.
I have been some: time in Madisonville; the place of my family abode is near New Orleans, opposite side of the river. I
was eight years in the British army. I was several years agent
for Mr. Clark's. plantations; since his-death, I have bebn en-

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines at ux.

gaged in various objects. I now possess a house and lots, and
derive my revenue from my slaves,, cows, &c. I am in no
manner connected with, or related to, ny of the parties of this
suit; I have no interest in this suit.
In reply to the second cross-interrogatory, he answers, -I
knew Daniel Clark between nine and ten years; I knew him
as the father of Myra Clark; she was born in my house, and
was put by Mr. Clark, when a few days old, with my sister
and brother-in-law, Samuel B. Davis. I was Mr. Clark's agent
for his vafious plantations, - firsi, the Sligo and the Desert,
then the Houmas, the Havana Point, and when he died, of
the 'one he purchased of Stephen Henderson. He respected
our misfortunes, knowing that our family was rich and of the
highest standing in St. Doming6 before the Revolution. The
mother of Myra Clark was a lady of the Carriere family. Not
being present at any-marriage, I can only declare it as my
belief, Mr. Clark was her husband. To -answer this question
in detail, as is demanded, it is necessary that I state what was
communicated to me. It was represented to me that this lady
married Mr. De Grange in good faith, but it was found out
some time afterwards that he already had a livipg wife, when
the lady n~e Carriere 'separated from him. Mr. Clark some
time after this married her at the North. When the time
arrived .for it to be made public, interested persons had produced a false state of things between them, and this lady being
in Philadelphia, and Mr. Clark not there, was persuaded by a
-lawyer employed, that' her marriage with Kr. Clark was
invalid, which believing, she married Monsieur Gardette.
Some time, afterwards, Mr. Clark lamented to me that this
barrier to making his marriage public had been created. He
spoke to me of -his daughter Myra Clark from the first as legitimate, and when he made known to me he was making his
last will, he said to me that he should declare her in it as his
legitimate daughter. From the above I belieVe there was a
marriage.
In reply to the third cross-interrogatory, he answers, -Mr.
Clark made no question on this subject before and after her
birth; and as long as he lived he exercised the authority of a
parent over her destiny. He was a very fond parent; he sustained the house of Mr. Davis and Mir. Harper, because my
sister had her in care, and Mrs. Harper suckled her. He sustAined Harper as.long as he lived, and conferred great benefits
gn my brother-in-law. He spoke of her mother with great
respect, and frequently told me after her marfiage with Mr.
Gardette, that he would have made his marriage with her public, -if-that barrier had not been made, and frequently lamented

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

573

Patterson v. Gaines et "ux.

to me that this barrier had bJeen made, but that she was blameless. He said he Would nev-r give Myra'a step-mother. When,
in 1813, he communicated to me that he was making his last
will for her, he,showed great sensibility as to her being declared legitimate in it. While I was' with him at his deathsickness, and even at the moment he expired, he was in. perfect
possession of his senses, and no parent could have manifested
greater affection than he did for her in that period. Nearly his
last words were about her, and that his will must be taken care
of on her account. She, the said, Myra, is the only child Mr.
Clark ever acknowledged to me to be his. She. was born in
July, 1805.
In reply to the fourth- cross-interrogatory, he answers,'- I
was a friend of that confidential character from the time of
said Myra's birth. Mr. Clark 'treated me as a confidential
friend in matters relating to her ahd to his affairs generally.
In reply to the fourth interrogatory, I have stated what I know
concerning Mr. Clark's last will; my recollection of these facts.
is distinct. The circumstances connected with them were of
such a character, that my recollection of them could not be
easily impaired.
(Signed,)
PJItnn BARION Bois FoTma-.
And on the 25th day of April,_A. I. 1840, the following
decree was entered of record in the words and figures following, to wit:
EDMuND P. G

NtnEs and wife)

v.
COEw & RELP

No. 122.
et als.

This cause having come for final hearing, by consent of the
complainants and the, defendant Patterson, upon -the bill, answer, .eplication, exhibits, depositions, and documents on file
herein, and on the admis~ion'of the parties,. that the. estate in
controversy in this case .exceeds in value the suim of two
thousand dollars; and the said complainants and the defendant
Patterson expressly. waiving and dispensing with the necessity
of any other parties to the hearing or decision of this.cause
than themselves, and agreeing that the cause shall be determined alone upon its merits, and the court, being now sufficiently advised of and concerning the premises, does finlbly
decree and order that the defendant Patterson do, on or bbfore
the first'day of the next term of this court, convey and surrender. possession to the complainant, Myra Clark Gaines, of
all those lots or parcels of land lying and being in the city,
of New Orleans, and particulaily described in this answer and

574

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gairtes et ux.

exhibits, and to which he claims title under the said will of
(1811) eighteen hundred and eleven; said co'nveyance shall
contain stipulations of warrantagain'st himself only, and those
claiming under him. It is further decreed" and ordered, that
the defendant pay the complainants so much of their costs expended herein as has been incurred by reason of his.being
made a defendant in this cause.
From which decree the- defendant prayed an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United-States, which is granted.
And by consent of the complainants, bond and security is
dispensed with. By consent; the copy of records of the Probate Court; with a full and-complete transcript of the proceedings had in relation to the estate of the late -Daniel Clark on
file in said court, (hereafter to be-fied,) to constitute a part of
the record herein.
Decree rendered April 25th; 1840.
Decree signed April 25th, 1840.
(Signed,)
3. McKmxsrY, Presidiv, Judge.
The cause having come up to this court by this appeal, was
argued by Mr. Brent and Mr. May, for the appellant, :Patterson, and by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Jones, for Gaines and wife.
The counsel for the appellant contended that the decree of
the court below was erroneous, for the following reasons7 viz. :
1. Because the bill shows no case for -equitable relief.
2. Because there is no sufficient evidence of the alleged title
in the complainant, as devisee of Daniel Clark.
3. That she is not the heir at law of Daniel Clark,
4 That -she was the adulterine child of said Clark, by illicit
commerce between said Clark and the mother of complainant,
then the lawful wife of Jerome de Grange and as such child
incapable by law of inheriting or receiving by gift or will the
property of said Clark.,
5. Thaf if not the adulterine child, she was Clark's illegitimate offspring, incapable of receiving from him more than one.
third of his estate.
6. That the appellant is a purchaser of a legal tit!o. to the
property -in suit, under a.-will legally admitted to probat, and
under the authority of the executors therein naied.
7.. That the decree is otherwise erroneous and wrongful.
8. That she is not the*cild of Clark.
The argument of Mr. Brent and Mr. May was as fol.ows.
The bill of complaint was filed in the-Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana, against the"appel-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

575

Patterson v. Gaines et ox.

lant and numerous other defendants. The afiswers (original
and supplemental) of Patterson disclose the-nature.-0f his'title
as bon&fide purchaser under the will- of Dahiel Clark dated in
"
1811, and duly admitted to probate in the proper court.
Various depositions and 'documentaky -evidence, were filed by
the complainants and the appellant, and. the case being set for
-hearing as -between themselves," a fin6l, decree was rendered
against Patterson. for .all the property held by him as purchasei
under the will of 1811..
We allege error in that decree.
1st Question. Is-the.appeal of Patterson properly and fairly
before this court? True, there was -6o -order of severance to
justify,. the sepa -at6 decree -gainst one co-defendant, but 've
contend, that, uider the circumstance's of this case, it was competent for the' appellant and appllees to -set the 'case for'final
decree upon all. the evidence talton,. and the result of such.action cannot be.to prejudice the other.parties in anty respect ;, for
if 'they can materially change" the aspect of.tha case, by.ad7.
ditional evidence, the judgment- of -this court on our' case
will not conclude 'tha.m. We refer in support of- this position.
to the following authorities. 2 Dana, 422; 2 Bibb, 167; Paet;
Reg. 16; .1 Peters, 306; 3 Munfo'd, 368, 374,397; 6 Hart.
& Johns. 10'; '3 Dallas, 401,"
The course pursued. by Mr.' Patterson. if separating himself.
from his co-defendants is not the result of collusion..-ith the
appellees.: - If. it were, it would be npoteut. But it is the
-fruit of an anxious 'desire on his part to meet the claims of this,
claimant fully and fairly.on 'the ments, without delay'or resort
to any of those dilatory -jroceedings which have-.thnce been
overruled' in this court.
Mt. Pattersod wishes fo know as speedily as possible whether
he is the owner of this roperty; and he has introduced, as he
believes, matter .nough in th.is.record. to destroy'this claim,
at least he has - itroduced all the'.evidence kinown to hiim..
We are thus, attentive to such an imputation of collusion,
because, at -the argument of a motion to dismiss this 'appeal
made some -years ago by'the-counsel" 'of'Caroline: Barnes, one
'of the present counsel understood such an. imputation -to be
made or insinuated in this court- by the counsel of Caroline
Barnes.
We will, in repudiating ihis charge, as we do indignantly, by
the authority :of Mr. Patterson, add to the denial, in his behalf;
our 6wn aeclaration, as officers of this high court, that -our
instructions have' been- to defeat the. claim of' Mrs. Gaines, if
possibl.6, by. every fair' and honorable argument'; and in .behalf
of Mr. McHenry, of'New .Orleans, we tate- that a corresponid-

576

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

ence between him and the gentleman who was understood to
make the charge has resulted in acquitting him, as counsel of
Mr. Patterson, from every imputation.
2d Question. Has Mrs. Gaines any title to the property in
dispute, as alleged devisee under the will of 1813?
We meet this question by showing from the record that,
although there is evidence to prove that Clark had made a will
some weeks before his death, declaring Myra his legitimate
child and sole heir, yet that will is not proved to have been in
existefice at his death, save by his dying declarations, which
are no evidence whatever of the.will being then in existence.
Jackson v. Betts, 6 Cowen, 382.
These dying declarations were the delirious ravings of a
man in estremis, oblivious of the fact that he had himself.
destroyed a will 'made to practise a pious but posthumous fraud,
for the purpose of gratifying an inordinate love for Myra but
a fraud which it is fair to presume, upon this evidence, his.
sober after-reflections induced him to shrink from, and with
his own hands to .desiroy that will which, if he died without
cancelling, would, to his conscience aiid his God, present him
as dying with a falsehood on his lips.
But if the will were existent at his death, it was olograthic,
and there are not as many competent witnesses to the will as
the law required, for the laws then in force exclude women as
incompetent. 2 Partidas, 964, Law 9; 1 ib. 23; Laws of
Orleans, 230, art..105.
But this court, in 2 Howard, 646, have settled that this will
of 1813 cannot confer title until duly admitted to probate.
Therefore, Mrs. Gaines's title, as devisee, cannot be relied on
to sustain the decree against Patterson.
3d Question. Is Mrs. Gaines the child and forced heir of
Daniel Clark ?
Her bill of. complaint alleges he: birth in July, 1806, and
that up to Clark's death,, in 181.3, she was called Myra Clark,
but after his death; and up to her marriage in 1832, she was
called Myra Davis, and was kept in-ignorance of'hei true name
'and parentage, that is, from 1813 to 1832, a period of -nineteen
years, and until she was twenty-six years of age, and .ihat in
.1832 she learned her rights by accident.
Such is her own showing, and as part. of her evidence she
bringp forward Davis, the very man who -had been intrusted"
by Clark with the sacred deppsit of his child. See Davis's own
deposition, Record,. 181,:5th, 6th, and 7th answers. And see
Clark's solemn appeal to him in his Philadelphia letter, Record,
183.
Davis says tnat Clark told him Myra-would be his heir.
Record, 183, 184.

JANUARY TERM,. 1848.

577

Patterson t- Gaihes et ux.

Now if Davis had not known and ascertained that Myra was
an adulterous offspring, incapable by the laws of Louisia a of
receiving the munificent .but insane bequests of Clark, and
that her claims founded'on Clark's latter conduct were untenable, how can his treatment of Myra be viewed in any other
light than as a shameless abandonment of his solemn trust?.
If Davis suppressed the true history of Myra with a conviction that its knowledge would be her triumph; words could
not be fouiid adequate to the denunciation of his conduct. But
we think the-explanation of this conduct is to be found in the
fact, that Davis knew this unfortunafe offspring of guilty parents to be banned and barred by the policy of the laws of
Louisiana, and that to acquaint her with the intentions of
Clark towards her would be to lead her into endless and idle
litigation. Neither Davis nor his wife attempts to exllain their
conduct in keeping Myra ignorant of her rights,. if they. believed she had any. And if her claims are just, the conduct
of Davis is directly impeached by the evidence of her Own
witness; Belle Chasse. General repute called her the child of
Davis. See the evidence of Madam Despau, Record, 165; Caillaret, Re6brd, 169; Thiling Record, 334; Coxe, Record,
337; Bois.Fontaine, Record, 356; Mrs. Smith, Record, 136.
If, as we hereafter propose to establish, the intercourse between Clark and her mother was illicit a: all times, then his
belief as-to his paternity amounts to nothing,.especially when
it is.proved that she does not resemble Clark, as did Caroline
Barnes, the elder child. See Cokes deposition, Record, 336.
Clark's acknowledgments should have been before a notary
and two witnesses. Code of 1808, p. 48, art. 24-26.
If alimony alone is sued for, such informal acknowledgments
might be sufficient. Code of 1808, p. 50, art. 31; ibid., p.
154, art. 45; ibid., p. 156, art. 45.
If Myra was the illegitimate offspring, of Clark, alimony is
all she can claim. Code of 1808, p. 156,-art. 46; ibid., p. 48,
art. 28; ibid., p. 154, art. 45.
But going beyond the character of natural child, Mrs. Gaines
claims, to be the child of Clark by a lawful- marriage of her
mother with him. And in considering this claim, we first examine the nature and effect of Clark's declarations, which are
said to prove the fact.
C.onceding', exgratia,that in 1813, by the pretended will of
that year, Clark attempted. formally to declare her legitimate,
yet how can his genuine and undoubted will of 1811 be reconciled witli such latter attempt?
In 1811, Myra was five years old, and living in New Orleans,
as Clark well kn6w, and yet at the time of his uidertaking a
49
VOL. Vw.

578

SUPREME. COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

.sea-voyage he eiecutes that 'ill, wholly pretermitting any
notice of Myr, anud-willing all his estate to his mother.
Why did he: ov-erlook Myra? 'Was he the unprincipled
father, who would disinherit his.young and innocent offspring.?
No, he was not unmindful of her claims, and he sought toprovide foi her in the -only secret~and stealthy mode permitted
by the penallaws of Louisiana.
He executes Various.deeds to Belle Chasse, De la Croix, and
'Davis, on blind trust, for Myra's benefit, thus creating no legal
right for Myra, but an honorable claim on the, consciences of
'these friends for a handsome property. See their depositions.
Who can -believe that an auxious father would thus hazard
the whole'property designed for his helpless and"lawful child,
by lind confidence in the .honor of .h.unfan beings, -when by
will or*deed he could guard her rights effectually and beyond.
contingency ?
We' defy and challenge any satisfactory explanation of these
acts, consistent with the claim of' Mrs. Gaines. But if, as we'
'allege, Clark knew her to be the adulterine offspring of Madame, de Grange by him, then his conduct can well 'be undterstood.. For, by the laws of 'Louisiana, an adulterous offspiing-'
can receive from its parent nothing -but alimony, either in the
shape of donations inter vivos or causa ,mortis. Code of 1808,
p..212, 'art. 17.
' This statutory interdict, then, was the cause of Clark's making his will of 1811, and 'creating blind, trusts for the benefit
of Myra.
But there are other acts of Clark which go to destroy his
later attempt• to efface the stain on Myra's -birth, such as the
secrecy with which her birth was gudarded, and-the haste with
which he tore the tender infant from her mother's breast; his
never suffering this child 'to dwell under his roof; and, last y',
.his attempt, after his pretended marriage with the mother
of Myra, ,t~o marry Miss

-.

See deposition of Madame

Despaii.
These gets of Clark, when arrayed agaihsf the will of 1813,
if it were .here in court, subscribed by his hand, 'would speak
the truth with a power and eloquence which no after conduct
of.The
his could resist.
truth is, that the inconsistent will of i813 arose from
the increase of affection for his natural 'child, who daily fastened
on his heart, as proved by her own witnesseb, and in the infatuation -of his love he' madly -conceived'the purpose of making
a will declaring her his lawful child and universal legatee.
This pious fraud was-frankly avowed to: his bosomfriend,
the ':Chevalier, de la Croix., See his deposition.

JANUARY. TERM, 1848.

579

Patterson v. Guines et ux.

But, doubtless, as he dwelt more up n the moral crime of,
perpetrating this fraud on -society, and on the truth, he tore
that 'will with his own hands, and h nce its non-apperance,.
though, in the delirium of fever,- he murmured qf it as still
existing.
Then we assert. that Clark's acts and conduct are the strongest Witnesses against the claim of Mrs. Gaines as his heir at
law.
Let us 'see if the mother of ]Mrs. Gaines has not also testified against this pretended marriage.
If she was Clark's wife, as pretended, she afterwards committed rank -bigamy in marrying: Gardett , living -Clark. See'
Coxe's evidence, and the marriage certificate.
Nay, she told Coxe, that, so far from being married to Clark,
she haI only his promise -to marry.
Then.both Clark and his pretended wife have testified against
their intermarriage, and if they so testify, who is the witness
to outweigh them? Madame -Despau is the solitar' 'witness
to the marriage, - a sister of Myra's mother.
. Madame Despan impeaches herself by showing her privity
with the marriages -of her sister to both Clark and Gardette,
and her reasons are flimsy for a justification.. Record, p. 164.
It was rash. enough for her to stand by, in the lifetime of
Jerome de. Grange, the first husband of-:her.sister, and: see that
sister marry Clark, Nith nothing to shield-her. from bigamy but
the statement of Gardette, that, to hisknowledge,- De Grange
had a prioi living wife.
All this, as "stated by her, is bad enough; but her inconsistency about De Grange twice flying, her attempt to palm off
Caroline Barnes as the child. of De Grange, her statement that
the visit of herself ind sister in. 1803 was to hunt up the
records at the North of De Grange's prior marriage, when Coxe
-proves- that their visit was in 1802, and- that in that year her
sister, -in Philadelphia, gave birth to Caroline, 'at which. time
De Grange was absent in Europe, " all these things taint and
condemn this witness, and her unsupported testimony to this'
factum of marriage must fall.
* No -one can doubt, on these facts, that, so far from Madame
de Grange and Clark going to Philadelphia. to hunt. up records
and have a marriage, they went there to shroud from the eye
of observation the birth of Caroline, the"frst fruit of an adulterous intbrcourse between Clark and. the mother of Myra.
If Madame Despau be "falsa in uno, falsa est in omnibus."' See The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheaton, q99.
Madame Despau is the universal marriage witness of her sister,
who, on her own evidence, had three husbands, all living at

SUPREME COURT.

-580

Patterson X. Gaines et ux.

the same time; first, De Grange, then Clark, and then Gardette.
She says that-while in Philadelphia, on the occasion of a visit,
some years after the marriage of Clark, her sister married Mr.
Gardette, beckaase she was told, in the presence of Madame
Despau, bytCoxe and Smythe, a lawyer, that her sister could
not prove her marriage to Clark. Record, .164.
Where, we ask, was her own proof ? Where Mr. Dorvier, the
other witness stated by her to Clark's marriage? But where
was her seilse of virtue, that would suffer her to stand by and
see her sister marry Gardette, living Clark-? And this bigamy with Gardette is perpetrated and connived at by two sisters who had warred against the bigamy of De Grange, as the
complainant alleges.
If we believe Madame Despau, she aid her sister, Madame de
Grange, had, in 1808, to abandon all hope of proving a splendid
marriage with Clark, which the child of that pretended marriage expects now to prove, after the lapse of thiriy-nine yeats.
Madame Despau says that her sister Zuline had two children
by De Grange. Record, 164 and 166. Yet another sister;
Caillaret,. says no child was born of that union. Record, 293.
And afterwards Madame Despau, in d subsequent deposition,
shifts her evidence on this point and conforms it to Madame
Caillaret's statement. But establish the factum of an intermarriage between-Clark and the mother of Myra, which cannot be, yet that mother was already the lawful wife of Jerome
de Grange, who was then and afterwards alive. This prior
marriage of Zuline to De Grange is proved by Mrs Gaines's
own' -witnesses, Madame Despau and. Madame Caillaret, in
1796. How. then could Madame de Grange contract marriage
with Clark in 1803, unless De Grange was dead, which! is not
pretended? Because it is said De Grange's marriage- with
Zuline was null, by reason of his having a prior wife alive in
1796. Where is the proof of this allegation ?
There are but three attempts to prove this allegation in the
record, viz.
First, the hearsay of Gardette, that. he knew De
Grange had a prior living wife.. This hearsay is no evidence
against us,. as we have no claims under Gardette.
Secondly, that a report was current in New Orleans that a
woman came there 'claiming to be the wife of De Grange.
But where she came from, or where she went, no one knows,
and common report is no evidence of such a fact. Mima
Queen's case, 7 Cranch, 290.
Thirdly, the confessions of De Grange that his marriage
with -Zuline was yoid by reason of his prior marriage.
To this we answer, that these confessions are as much hearsay when brought against.us, as Gardette's statements were; for.
-

JANUARY TERM. 1848.

581-.

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

-we do not claim under De Grange, and to let his unswom
statements go in evidence against us would be to make our
rights depend upon his ez 1parte statements, without any ineans
or opportunity to us of testing their truth or falsehood. , Mor .
gan v. Yarborough, 11 Louis. R. 76.
We have spoken of -but three attempts to prove, De Orange
a bigamist, fQr we will not even call. the failure tb prove him
so by record proof an attempt.
On the'face of complainants' bill, it appears that the defendant, Patterson, claims under the will duly probatedi,and dated
1811. And Patterson, being~a third possessor, cannot be ousted
until ,.he has disciss.ed, that 'is impeached, the.will of 1811, by
proceeding against the legatees therein. Hodder v. Shepherdi
' Louis. R. 507; Code of 1808, p. 214, art; 26; ibid., p. 216,-art.
37-39. She oughf to have sued to discuss that will in four
years after her majority, or eight years at farthest. 2 Partidas,
1046; 1 ibid. 384; Constitution of 1812, art. 4; § 11.By these laws she was barred in July, 1-831, or July, 1835, at
farthest, which is before the bill was filed, and the benefit of
this prescription appears on the face of. her bill, and need not
be pleaded.
We insist that the title of Patterson was legally derived
under the will of 1811, and that the sales were all regular and
valid in every respect.
And in conclusion, if there be, a doubt on this whole case,
-it should inure to the benefit of WonO fide purchasers, whose
titles ought'not to be 6verturned in a case like this.
. For 'Mrs. Gaines, personally, we feel every sympathy; but
how often is it. that the innocent offspring is made to suffer for
the acts of the parent! And if 6ver parents deserved condemnation here or elsewhere, these parents have deserved it. A
mother who, for the world's false esteem, would discard from
her maternal breast two helpless infants, and never again look.
upon her 'own offspring, -a mother who, upon the case made
'by her own daughter, stands convicted of adultery before her.
pretended marriage with Clark, and with bigamy afterwards, such a mother is above the judgment of human tribunals.
And what shall we say *of the conduct of Daniel Clark, if
.Myra be his lawful child, and Madame de Grange was his
lawful wife ? Courting another woman while his wife was
living, and at his death forgetting that she had been his wifp,
although he had, as 'pretended, pronounced her blameless,
participating in .the crime of' separating two infants fr6m
their mother to save the paltry pride of that mother, such a man; if the claims of this lady be just, should be
consigned tb infamy in all human estimation. Even now,
49*

582

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et uz.

the web of destiny hangs around this unfortunate but innocent
offspring, and the dreadfil past cannot be recalled. After the
lapse of forty years, the sun of truth. shines upon this dark
and adulterous intrigue, revealing all its deformity on the highest judicial records, and showing, the vanity of Clark's latter
attempts to efface the stain, if it could be called a stain, which
iis own wild passions had placed upon his child at her birth.
The Reporter is compelled to omit the arguments of Mr.
Johnson and MIr. Jons, the counsel for Gaines and wife, as.
their insertion would make the report of this case too long.
Mr.: Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The history of this case will be found in the report of the
case of Gaines v. Relf and Chew, in ; Howard, 619.
This is the fourth time that the cause has been before this
court. Its decision; in each instance hitherto, has been in
favor of the complainants.
The third time, it was brought here upon points upon which
the judges in the Circuit Court were divided in their opinions.
They arose upon the argument of demurrers, filed by several
of the defendants.
It was said there was a want of equity in the bill; that there
was a complete remedy at-law; that the bill was multifarious,
and that there was a misjoinder of parties; that :the will of
1813, upon which the complainants relied for a recovery, had
not been adinitted to .probate; and that if the complainants
relied upon Mrs. Gaines being the forced. heir of Daniel Clark,
whatever that right might be, it was recoverable at law.
Upon the argument of the demurrers, three points were made
upon which the judges could not agree, and they were certified to this court f6r its decision.
Those points were, 1st. Was the bill multifarious, and have the complainants a
right to sue the defendants jointly in this case ?
2d. Whether the court cduld entertain urisdiction of the
cause, without probate of the 'will set up by the coniplainants,
-which they charge to have been destroyed and suppressed?
3d. Has the court jurisdiction of this cause, or does it belong
exclusively to a court of law ?
On the first p6int, this court, for reasons which are as satisfactory to us as they were to the judges who then heard the
argument, decided that the bill was not multifarious; that there
was no misjoinder, excepting that the purchasers of the property
of Daniel Clark had no interest in the rendition of the accounts
by the executdrs, under the will of 1811, nor any with what

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

83

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

might be. the interest of Caroline Barnes in the, will of. 1813-;.
that those particulars ought-not to be connected with the general object .of the bill, but that it -could: be so amended, in both
respects, in the Circuit Coirt, as to avoid the exceptions.
Upon the second point, this court, upna full review of the
authorities, came to this conclusion, -that both the general and
local law requirp, the will of 1813 to be proved in the Court
of, Probates before any title- can be set up under it; but that
this result. did not .authorize a negative answer to the second
pOint.
The court said, that, under the circumstances of the case, the
,complainants were entitled to. full and expiicit answers -from
the defendants in regard to the wills of 1813 and 1811, -and
that such ansWers, being 6btained,.might be used as evidence
before the Court of Probates to establish the will .of 1813; and
to revoke that of '1811. The answer was pertinent tci the
inquiry, and nothing beyond it. We have adverted to it. to
show that .the decree, of the Circuit Court now under consideration has no' confiection-with the will of 1813, and that it
was made, by that. court under'the answer given by the .court
to the third.point.
The third point was-Has the court jurisdiction ofth cause,.
or does it belong exclusively to a court of law?.
This point involved the jurisdiction of the court in every
aspect in which the bill could be viewed. So the.court considered it. The claim made'in the bill for Mrs. Gaines did not
rest alone upon the 'alleged will of 1813, but also, upon the
'allegation that she was the legitimate child of Daniel Clark,
and..'undei thet law of. Louisiana, was'his forced- heir. The
court said, "The complainants,"in prosecuting their rights upon
the ground of Mrs. Gaines. being the heir at law, no probate
-of the will of J813. will be required. ,.Theyr must-,rest upon
the heirship of Mrs. Gaines, the -fraud. charged upon the executors 'to the .will-of 181.1, and .notice of such fraud by the
pur6hasers.. In this form of procedure, the will .of 1811 is
brought before .the.court oollaterally.: 'It 'is not an action of
nullity, but-a roceeding which'may enable the court to 'give
proper relief without decreeing the revocation of the will of
1811P,
Such were the answers .given by, 'this court to the points
which had been certified-to it.
. The'Circuiit Court, in the subsequent trial. of the cfuse.
:between the complainpntsand .the appellant, Mr. Patterson, has
dcreed that Ms. Gaines is the forced heir of Daniel Clarki
or in other words, that, being his legitimate child, she was entitled, under the laws of Louisiana, to her 16gitime in-his estate
at the'time of his death..

584

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson ". Gaines et ux.

This decree was made upon the pleadings and proofs in the
cause, put in by the complainants .and the appellant, Charles
Patterson. He was one of the defendants who had not demurred to the bill. Before those demurrers had been filed, Mr.
Patterson had filed his answer,. by his counsel, but not under
oath, having availed himself of the waiver in this respect
tendered to the defendants by the complainants. To that
aiswer there was a general replication. The parties having
introduced. their proofs, the case was regularly in-order for a
hearing.. It was heard at the earnest desire of both parties.
No suggestion. was made in the Circuit Court below, that it
would direct~an issue to be made for the trial of the legitimacy
of Mrs..Gaines by a jury. No such desire has been expressed
by the c'ounsel of the appellant in this court, though it was
intimated that it ought to have been done. We do not think
it an occasion for such a course to be pursued.
The practice. of granting issues is limited to cases in which
the court, in the fair exercise of its discretion, considers that
justice will best be obtained by that course. Discretion, we
mean, as it is guided by what has been the practice of courts
of chancery. Gardner v. Gardner, 22 Wendell, 526; Drayton
v. Logan, Harp. Eq. 67; 3 Paige, 457, 601.
In the English chancery, except in the case of an heir at
law or of a rector or vicar, it is not a matter of right. In the
American courts of equity we know of no practice establishing an issue as a matter of right. In Virginia and other's of
our States, the heir's-right to an issue is given by statute. As
the English chancery, in the exceptions mentioned as a matter
of right, has allowed them, upon the ground that the common
law "invests a party filing a particular situation.with certain
rights, of which it is the object of the suit to divest him, we
presume that where, by operation of the law, in either of the
States, particular. persons. have an interest in the property of
an ancestor, whatever might be the evidence in favor of
the authenticity and genuineness of the will, if the heirs at
law object to its being done, the couirt will not establish the
will, without the opinion of a jury upon a devisavit vel non."
We have recurred to what has been hitherto decided in this
cause concerning juiisdiction, to prevent hereafter, in the further progress of it against any of the defendants, any doubt
about it; and that the principles upon which this court has
asserted it might be better understood than they seem to have
been at the bar.. The Circuit Court, in rendering its decree,
understood it perfectly. We have been particular, too, in repeating what was decided by this court ,in2 Howard, 619,
because it comprehends the subject-matter upon which the ju-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

585

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

risdiction of 'the court was affirmed, and covered all who were
parties, with the exceptions mentioned, and their obligations to
answer, either jointly or separately, the bill as they pleased;
though the whole of them, or any lesser number, might have
a common defence. The object being that a final decree might
be made between the complainants and each defendant, provided the interest or property upon .which the decree is to
attach was a part of the property of Daniel Clark and now
separate in each defendant who might answer separately, or
in any two or mor& of them who might do so jointly. Or if
the defendants, as they'had a right to do, - except such of them
as have already chosen, not to answer conjointly, and have
answered separately, - should make a common answer, that the
decree between the parties might be common to all, and attach
upon the property of Daniel Clark in their hands, if the complainants make out the right of Mrs. Gaines, as forced heir of
Daniel Clark. This disposes of the 'question of jurisdiction,
and of the suggestion mali in the course. of*the argument of
the cause here, though not strongly insisted upon, that the
jurisdiction or practice of the court did not permit a separate
decree against Mr. Patterson, or any other defendant in .the
cause. If the decree against any of the defendants determines
the character of the subject-matter or property for which he
is sued, making it.a part of what shall be the aggregate from
which the complainants' interest is to be calculated, it is a final
decree, and perfect against the defendant, though it may require the confirmation of a further ofder of the court before it
can.be acted upon; as in cases of foreclosure, oi where a fund
may be distributable among a particular class of individuals,
or where, in the distribution of an estate, it becomes necessary
to direct a master to report upon its-kind or value, &c., &c;, of
which there is a full illustration in the decree given by this
court in the case of Michoud v. Girod, 3 Howard, 543.
The cause is now before this court upon the appeal of Mr.
Patterson.
The argument of the learned counsel, Messrs. Brent and
May, in favor of the reversal of the decree may be condensed
as follows: 1. There is no circumstantial evidence in favor of the marriage between the mother of Mrs. Gaines and Daniel Clark.
2. The testimcny of Madame Despau, who declares that
she was present at the marriage, is not entitled to belief on
many accounts.
3. Mr. Clark's acknowledgments that Myra, Mrs. Gaines,
'was his legitimate child, even if admissible, are contradictory,
if De la Croix has spoken the truth, as he spoke differdntly

586

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

of"her to that witness. And they are intrinsically overruled
by his most solemn acts,. in stealthily providing for her by
blind trusts, and more especially by the will of 1811.
4. Conceding, exempli gratia, that there was a factum of
the alleged marriage, still there is proof of the marriage. of
.the mother of Mrs. Gaines .with De Grange, and no legal or
satisfactory Proof of the nullity bf that marriage ; because
De Grange's confessions that he had a wife alive at the time
he married- the mother of Mrs. Gaines are not evidence, - particularly not so in this case, as the appellant does not claim
the property for which he is sued under De Grange. The argument of counsel upon the point of a previous and subsistlng. marriage was this: -There is direct proof of a marriage
between Zuline Carriere, the mother of Mrs. Gaines, and De
Grange. To annul it, there is no othe testimony than the
hearsay of De Grange's confessions, and Gardette's declarations, that, when De .Grange married Zuline, he was then a
ijarried man,- that it was a cominon rumor in New-Orleans,
'that such was the fact, - that a woman calling herself Mrs.
De Grangei arid claiming to be the *wife of De Grange,. came.
to New Orkans in pursuit df him, as her husband, It is said,
if she did, her assertions were equally hearsay. Reputation in
.New Orleans that the marriage :with Zuline was null would
be no evidence of the fact. Further, it is said the attempt to
prov.e De Grange's conviction for bigamy is a failure. But
even if the record of.his conviction had been produced, which
wa. not done, it is res inter 'alios acta, and could not be
admitted- against. the- appellant, who, does not claim under De
Grange, but under conveyances from the executors to the will
of 1811.
The counsel also contend i whether they are right or wrong
in the foregoing positions is a matter. of no consequencepexcept as .showing the history of the case, and tending to prevent further litigation) because, by the code of Louisiana of
1808, regnacted in this particular in.the code of 1825, it is declare.d that a person holding property by sale from a donee of
an excessive donation is only liable to the forced heir, after
an execution first had. against .the property of the- donee.
Under both codes, too, the third-possessors are only liable in theorder of their :purchases.. That the lUgitime of the forced heir
is not to be recovered in the specific property, but in the value
of the ligitivie,'as it may be ascertained under the -Louisiana
codes. For these last positions, counsel'rely upon the lanu.
guage of the codes, and upon the case of Hodder -. Shepherd et al., 1 Louis., R. 505. That was a case which arose
under the code of 1808, but is cited in the newr code as a

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

8°

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

judicial exposition of both the old:,and new: code, in this Nspect. •It is said that this case is within the provisions of the
code under-the decision just cited, asMary Clark, the miother"
of. Daniel Clark and grandmother of Mrs. Gaines, as uhiver-'
sal legatee-of her 'son by the. will *of 1811, accepted the succession of his estate as. the law of-Louisiana required it-to be
done. That her ,power of attorney'to the executors,'Chew'
and Relf, authorized them to make sales of. the 'pioperty of
Daniel Clark as they were made, and- gave to the purchasers•
valid- titles, without any order of the Probate 'Court, or any
judicial sale, being necessary. That -the purchasers are- not
liable to be sued at-all, until the forced heir exhausts the pro
erty, or, .inother words, discusses the'rights or property-of the.
her son's estate.
grandmother
. 'The statuteinof
limitations,'it was also said, barred 'a recovery
by the complainants.
We have stated more particularly than we would otherwise
have done the arguments urged by the counsel of the appellint. and in the strongest way. in which they were presented.
It was due to the importance of the case, to the interest of
all concerned in "this.controversy, and because the arguments
of both of the counsel command our respect. Parts of some of
these 6bjections have our acquiescence, others have not.
Our conclusions relating to the marriage of the mother of
Mrs. Gaines to her father, the lawfulness of the marriage, and
that she is the legitimate offspring of that marriage, differ from
all that has been urged against them..
The marriage, the" legitimacy of Mrs. Gaines, and the:validity of the sales made by the executors, make the substance 'of
this case put in issue by the pleadings. Were.those pleadings
different from whap they are, there would be enough to prove
the marriage and the legitimacy of Mrs. Gaines. But as the
pleadings. are, we cannot, .upon the evidence, exclude such
conclusions.
The" marriage must be proved, according to what would be
proof of. it where it took place. This marriage took placp in
Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia, in the presence' of a witness
who says she was present, and that the ceremony was" performed by a Catholic priest. "Marriage- is a civil contract in
Pennsylvania, to be completed by any words in Ithe present
tense, without regard to form." Hantz v. Sealy, 6 Binney,
405. "Marriage is to be decided by.the laws of the place
where celebrated." Phillips v. Gregg, 10 Watts, 168. Every
intendment is to be made i favor 'of legitimacy. Senser v.
Bower, 1 Penn. R. 453.
The bill asserts the marriage, its lawfulness, and that- Mrs.

588

SUPREME COURT.,
Patterson v. Gaines et

ax.

Gaines is the issue of the marriage; -the answer is a denial of
these allegations. .The plaintiffs file a general replication.
But as the appellant accepted the waiver offered -in the bill,
that their answers might be put in without being sworn to,
and did not swear to his answer, he is not entitled to have the
benefit of his answer as a denial of the plaintiffs case, unless
the denial is contradicted by the evidence of two witnesses, or
by one.and corroboiating circumstances.
. In the case of the Union Bank v. Geary, 5 Peters, 99, this.
court said,-" Indeed, we are inclined to adopt it .ds a 'general
rule, that an answer- not under oath is to be considered merely
as a .denial of the allegations of the bill, analogous to the general issue at law, so as to put the complainant to the proof of
such allegations." In Bartlett v. Gale, 4 Paige, Ch. R. 503, theChancellor says, -" But whfere an answer on oath is waived,
although, as a pleading, the complainant may avail himself of
-admissions and allegations in the answer which go to establish
the case made by the bill, such answer is not evidence in favor
of the defendant for. any purpose." An answer is always under
oath, unless the plaintiff chooses to dispense with it; and then
the court -vrill order the answer of the .defendant to be taken
without oath. But whether the answer is not sworn to~by the
order of the court when the plaintiff waives it, or the waiver
has been voluntarily accepted by the defendant,' it is not
evidence in his favor for any purpose. As this court said in
5.Peters, just cited, it is analogous to the general issue at law,
and a single undiscredited witnesswill be sufficient to prove
the allegations in the bill which the answer denies. There is
such a witness in this case. We do not intend, however i to
put the conclusion to which we have come respecting the marriage solely upon her testimony. It is so strongly corroborated
by other proofs, that the answer would be disproved if it had
been sworn to.
Madame Despau says, -"Daniel Clark was married in Phila-"
delphia, in 1803, by a Catholic priest. I was present at the marriage. One child was born 'of this marriage, to wit, Myra Clark
(now Mrs. Gaines), who married William Wallace Whitney,
son of General T. Whitney of the State of New York. I
was present at her birth, and knew that Mr. Clark claimed" and
acknowledged her to be his child. -She was born in 1806. I
neither knew, nor had' any reason to believe, any other child
besides Myra was born of that marriage." The witness then
proceeds to relate what she terms the circumstances of the
marriage, including the previous marriage of Zuline Carriere
with De Grange, his subsisting marriage when he married Zuline, and the result of it, when that fact had been discovered

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

589

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

by Zuline and her family. This witness is not discredited in
any of the ways or for any of the causes which can allowably
be used for such a purpose. She is not contradicted by' any
witness.
who was present,
Marriage may be proved by any person
and can identify the parties. St. Devereux -V.M. Dew Church,
Buh, S. C. 506; 2 W. Black. 145.
If the marriage were in a foreign country proof that it .was.
solemnized in the manner usual in that country will be good
presumptive proof that it was a valid marriage. Lacon v.
Higgins, 3 Stark. 178.
Marriage by a person habited as a priest and being per verba
de presenti,.the person performing the ceremony must be presumed to have been a clergyman. Rex v. Brampton, 10 East,
282.
Ik what-way is the attempt made to lessen the force of her
testimony? In no other than by negative declarations of other
persons who.knew Clark, that they do not believe he was ever
married, and by the witness De la Croix, who says, - afid he is
tI only witness who says so, -'that Clark spoke to him of
Myra as his natural child.. A hundred such witnesses would not
be sufficient to impeach the testimony of one witness swearing
positively to the -fact. of the marriage. And allowing that
Clark-did so speak to De la Croix, a thusband's declarations of
the illegitimacy of a child when the marriage has been so
proved is not .sufficient to rebut the presumption of its having
been lawfully begotten, until the presumption is disproved by
evidence showing the want of access-between the husband and
wife. Bury v Phillpot,2 M. & K. 349.
Once the marriage is proved, nothing shall be allowed to
impugn the legitimacy of the issue short of the proof of facts
showing it to be impossible that the husband could be the
father. See opinion of the judges in Banbury Peerage case
by Le Marchant. Access is presumed, unless the contrary be
plainly proved.
But all the other witnesses, some -of whom were more in
Clark's confidence than De la Croix was, say that he "spoke to
them of Myra as hip legitimate child, calling her such.
Pierre -Baron Bois Fontaine declares that Clark tfeated him
as a confidential friend in matters relating to Myra and to his
affairs - generally; that he was with Clark when he died. He
says Clark repeatedly spoke to him of Myra as his legitimate
child. Nearly his last words were about her. And further' he
spoke of her mother with' great respect, and frequently told him,
after her marriage with Gardette,- that he woild have made his
VOL. VT.
50

590

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson

v.

Gaines et ux.

marriage with her public if that barrier had not been made;
but that she was blameless.
Mrs. Harriet Smith says, -", Mr. Clark and my late husband,
Mr. Harper, were intimate friends, &c. I suckled in her infancy Mr. Clark's daughter Myra. J did it voluntarily, in consequence of het having suffered from the hired nurses. Mr.
Clark considered that this constituted a powerful claim on his
gratitude and friendship, and he afterwards gave me his confidence respecting her." The interesting and truthful narrative
of this witness of the relations between the father and the
child, from her birth to the time of his death, and his frequent
declarations that he would acknowledge her as his legitimate
child, must make strong impressions upon any reader of itthat
she was such: Belle Chasse, the intimate and confidential
friend of Clark for many years, and who proved himself, as the
facts in the case show, worthy of that relation, says, -" With
much reflection and deliberation, Clark spoke of his being occupied in preparing his last will. On these occasions, in the
most impressive and emphatic manner, he spoke 'of Myra as
the object of his last will, and that he should in it declare her
to. be his legitimate child and heiress of all his estate."
Madame Caillaret, the sister of Zuline, says she was not
present at the marriage of her sister with Mr. Clark, "1but I do
know that Clark made proposals of marriage with my sister.
Mr. Clark's proposals of marriage were made aftei it became
known that her marriage with Mr. De Grange was void, from
the fact of his having then, and at the time of his marrying
her, a living wife.. These proposals were deferred'being accepted until the record proof of De Grange's previous marriage
could be obtained, and Zuline, with her sister, Madame Despau,
isailed for the North of the United'States, to obtain the record
Thus confirming- what Madame Despau likewise says
proof."3
of Clark's proposals of marriage: -" Mr. Clark made proposals
of marriage .to my sister, with the knowledge of all our family.
It was considered essential first to obtain record proof of De
Grange having a living wife at the time he married my sister,
to obtain which from the records of the Catholic church ia
New York, (where Mr. De Grange's prior marriage was celebrated,) we sailed for that city. Mr.. Clark arrived after us.
We heard that a Mr. Gardette, then living in Philadelphia,.was
one of the witnesses of Mr. De Grange's prior marriage. We
proceeded to that city, and found Mr. Gardette. He answered,'
that he had been present at the prior marriage of De Grange;
and that he afterwards knew De Grange and his wife bythis
marriage, - that this wife had sailed for France. :Mr. Clark
then said, 'You have no reason any -longer" to refuse being

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

591

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

married to'me. It will, however,.be necessary to keep our marriage secret till I have obtained judicial proof of the nullity of
your and DeGrang e ' s.mariage"' Clark and Ziline were then
married." Madame Despau then relates their return to New
Orleans, the prosecution of De Grange for bigamy, his imprisonment, escape,'. and flight from the country, without his having ever returned .to Louisiana again. "All this happened in
1803, not a great while before the close of the Spanish gov-.
emiment in Louisiana. Mr. Clark told us that, before he could
.promulgate his marriage with my sister, it would'be necessary
for her to bring an action against the name of De Grange.
The anticipated change of government 'caused delay; but at'
length, in 1806, Messrs. James Brown and Eligeas. Fromentin,
as the counsel of my sister, brought suit against the name of
Jerome de"Grange, 'in the City Court of.New Orleans."
.Now, rejecting all that Gardette is said to have said,.all that..
Madame Despau says of the prosecution of De Grange for bigamy, and of the appearance- of a female in New Orleans6claim-.
ing De-Grange fpr her husband,as not being within the allowable limits of hearsay testimony in a question of pedigree, the
concurring testimony of two witnesses if. the family as to
Mr. ClAN'k's proposals of marriage is. such a corroboration of
the dedlaratioi of one of them,'that the marriage took place in
her presence, as to make a basis broad enough' to receive the
declarations, of the father, and his affectionate treatment of his
child from her birth to his deaih, as conclusive of his marriage
with her- mother, and of her legitimacy. Such declarations,
where there are probable grounds of a marriage, are the best
proof in a question of pgdigree. Just such -though they are
within what is termed hearsay - as experience has showA to
be necessary, in *casesof doubt, to establish -donjugal relations
and the legitimacy of children. Such declarations, unlike
those which De la Croix says Mr. Clark made to him, have
always been 'received to establish the 'legitimacy of a child,
with or without proof of. marriage ; and when there is in a
case the positive -testimony of .one witness to a marriage, they
are conclusive proof of legitimacy.
What is urged against such a 6onclusion in this case?
The conduct. of the parties in.not 'promulgating their marriage, and not occupying -the' same house upon their return to
New Orleans. In connection with that conduct, the testimony
of De la Croix,. that Colonel and Mrs. Davis, who reared
Mrs. Gaines at the request of her father, knew nothing of his
marriage; that the witnesses, Mr. Poxe and Mr. Hulings,
who were for a long time the intimates, of Mr. Clark, -the
former his partner in business, - swear, to the best of their be-

592

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson -. Gaines et ux.

lief, that he never married. And the subsequent connectioh
with Gardette, without a dissolution of the marriage with Mr.
Clark.
The first is a good objection, until it has been reasonably
accounted for. We do not mean so accounted for as to make
it proper, but enough so to separate such conduct from the
suspicion of an illicit connection.
Madame Despau declares, when the marriage was contracted
in Philadelphi4 and afterwards upon their arrival in New Orz
leans, that Clark said the marriage could not be disclosed on
account of Zuline's previous marriage with De Grange; that
legal proof must be obtained of the previous marriage of De
Grange, and that an action would have, to be brought by Zuline "against his name." This is substantially confirmed. by
Madame Caillaret, in her statement of the proposals for a marriage by Mr. Clark, and it having been deferred for the reason
given by Madame Despau for its concealment. It is confirmred
by what other witnesses say, as well as Madame Despau, of
the arrest and imprisonment of De Grange lor bigamy, to
which they all swear as within their own knowledge, and by
the subsequent proceedings in. the City Court, against De
Grange. (Record, 206.) Connect the preceding with the
mode of proceeding in Louisiana to impeach a marriage with
one unable to contract marriage, its existing application to De
Grange, and what might then have been its application to Mrs
Clark if her marriage in Philadelphia had been disclosed befor(
a sentence of the nullity of her marriage with De Grange hac
been obtained, and we shall have facts from which motives fo
concealment of it may be inferred diverse from and stronger
than the usual suspicion of its having been caused by an illicit
intercourse. It was not necessary to the validity of the marriage in Philadelphia, that a sentence of dissolution should have
been first pronounced in Louisiana against De Grange. -By- the,
law of the latter, as well as. by the law of Pennsylvnia, the
marriage with De Grange was void from the begihiing. A.
void marriage imposes no legal restraint upon the partyamposed
upon from contracting another, though prudence and delicacy
do, until the fact is so generally known as not to be a matter
of doubt, or until ithas been impeached in a judicial prockeding, wherever that may be done. .r. Clark probably knew
what we have just stated concerning the validity 6f his marriage; but from his 'pride and teiper, as his character has
been disclosed in this record, was it not probable, not to say
natural, that such a man, anticipating his return to Louisiana,
would resort to the course which was pursued, :to- keep his
feelings from being wounded, until a judicial sentence had re-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

593

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

stored his wife to the unequivocal condition enjoyed by her
before the imposition of De, Grange ? We speak of the fact,
and not of its propriety. The latter has not our approbation,
but we recognize what all of us know to be true, that concealment is as frequently the refuge of -error as it is of crime, and
that men of the world shun more than any thing else the
exposure of their follies, more especially such as the world
may think to be so, and bearing upon the honor of the most
delicate relation which a man can form in life. It is not a
fiction, that men have -been situated as Mr. Clark was, who
have died without disclosing, as he did, even in behalf of their
unoffending children, such a relation, and that women have
been found to bear it. Such reflections would have no weight
with us, unconiected with the proof that there is in this case
of the marriage. But we think, with such proof, that 'they are
appropriate to repel any presumption of illegitimacy in this
instance, arising from the-concealment of the marriage, or from
the parties to it not having occupied the same house. The
events which followed embittered the rest of this father's life,
and, intil now, have deprived his child of that legitimate standing which he was most anxious to give her, and which seems
to have pressed -most heavily upon him at the hour of his
death. Bois Fontaine says, in reply to the third cross-interrogatory, -" 1 He spoke of her mother with great respect, aid frequently told me, after her marriage with Gardette, that he
would have made his marriage with her public if that barrier
had not been made, and frequently lamented to me that it had
been made; but that she was blameless. He said he would
never give Myra a step-mother. When, in 1813, he communicated to me that he was making his last will, he showed great
sensibility as.to her being declared legitimate in it. While I
was with him .in his death-sickness, and even at the moment
he expired, he was in perfect possession of his senses, and no
parent could have manifested greater affection than he did for
her. Nearly his.last words were about her," &c.
Time with him was near its end, and the truth was told.
* De la Croix's testimony, in the particular in which it is
relied- upon, differs from that of all the other witnesses, who
have deposed -to what Mr. Clark said to them, repeatedly, of
the legitimacy, of his child.
. We regard it the less, for notwithstanding his intimacy with
Mr. Clark, and the confidence which he had in De la Croix's
suitableness to be the guardian of Myra, he' says Mr. Clark
"never spoke to him about her, except on the occasion when he
was asked to become his executor and her tutor. Record,
233, 234. This declaration to De la Croix, supposing it to
50*

-

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

have been made in connection with the occasion when he says
it was made by Mr. Clark, is the testimony in the record most
relied upon to disprove the legitimacy of Mrs. Gaines. But it
cannot be allowed to exceed.ii weight the testimony of several other witnesses who were more intimate with Mr. Clark
than De la Croix was, who -from: facts in the cause independently of any declarations. of theiks - seem to have had
more of his confidence, and to .whom Mr. Clark spoke very
differently df the same fact. A single declaration, directly the
reverse. of many to the same fact, may be made in such a manner, by the same person, as to disable us -from coming to a
conclusioii coincident with that which the many assert. But if
the latter are associated with other proofs bearing upon thb
point derived from other persons, stronger than any proofs
which can be connected .with the contradiction of them, .we
have a rule to guide us in our estimate of both, making the
many prevail over the one, though it might, independently of
all other proof connected with either, bring us. to an opposite
conclusion. The testimony of De la Croix cannot stand the
test of this -rule. Setting aside all that the other witnesses
say contrary to it, there is the oath of one witness who swears
to the marriage, which raises an intendment of legitimacy in
the offspring conclusive until it -has been disproved. Against
such a ruler suspicions or doubts not, resting' upon proofs as
strong as the proofs of the marriage must not be indulged.
But for a brief illustration of the rule, let us take the case.
De la Croix says Mr. Clark told him, upon the only occasion he
ever spoke to him of Myra, that she was 'his natural child.
Madamb Despau says she was present at the marriage of Mr..
Clark to the mother of Myra. Bois Fontaine says Mr. Clark
-said to him, speaking of the mother of Mrs. Gaines, that he
would have made his marriage with her public, but f6r her
subsequent connection with -Gardette., Now where is the
"weight of, proof? Does De la Croix's testimony exceed that
of the witness who swears to the marriage, and also Clark's
declaration to Bois Fontaine admitting it? The contrary declarations may neutralize. each other, in this'aspect of the case,
wifhout- lessening the positive.
In-such a case, we have not a choice of conclusions, but
must take that which the positive proves.
Hitherto, the testimony of De Ia Croix has been treated as
'ifit was altogether unexceptionable. It is not so. There is
in-it that cold hardness of a man of the world, unmindful 6f
the relations of former friendship whilst professing to regard
them, but little in unison with kindness, and not at all so with
the seriousness of exact truth. Such men will not swear to

JANiUAR f TERM, 1848.

b95

Patterson v. Gaines at ux.

what is false, but *theytniay speak what is not true, by an indifference to exactness in-what they do say. De la Croix's
testimony is twice. in the record, taken at different times, and
we have it b6th in French and English. No injustice is done
him by translation. They are not so contradictory of each other.
as to justify of themselves any charge against his" intentional
veracity; but they differ in particulars about Myra, as well as if
other persons, so as to make it right that it should, as a whole,
be eceived with great caution. Besides, for there must be no
disguise. of the facts which bring us to our conclusion concerning his testimony, there is upon the record a pecuniary relation between himself and the estate* of Daniel Clark, which,
unexplained, . does not leave a favorable impression of his
impartiality in this affair.
Again, suppose the fact of legitimacy in this case had been
placed altogether upon the eviaenice of Belle Chasse and. De la
Croix, that of the former would not have been proof of it. But
if Belle Chasse's testimony is fortified by that of others, speaking as strongly as he does of Clark's declarations of his daughter's legitimacy, it would not be reasonable to discard it for
the testimony of De la Croix, which. is unsupported by any
other witness.' Is the- conclusion one less of proof, bec.use
Colonel and Mrs. Davis, who reared the child at the request of
her father, were ignorant of his marriage? because Mr. Coxe
and Mr. Hulings, who knew him well, say that they knew
nothing of Mr. Clark's marriage, the two last declaring so to
the best of their belief? All of this is negative testimony,
implying ignorance of the fact of which they speak, and not
knowledge of it, -a
fact susceptible of positive proof, or of
proof by facts from which marriage may be inferred. The
rest of the testimony of. Mr. Coxe, Mr. Hulings, and-De la
Croix, in respect to the marriage, is excluded from our consideration, from not being within the. rules. by which hearsay is
admissible in cases of pedigree. Neither of them relate any
thing as coming from the parents of Myra, or the relations on
either side of the marriage. The only point in which the testimony of Mr. Coxe differs from that of Madame Despau is in
his narrative of the arrangement made by him, at the request
of Mr. Clark, for the birth of Caroline, now Mrs. Barnes.
Madame Despau -says she was the child. of De Grange; Mr.
Coxe, that Clark told him that she was his child. These declarations are at variance with each other as to the fact, but not
contradictory. The fact.. may be as one or the other witness
has related it. The difference, therefore, does not at all discrqdit Madame'Despau. But the ignorance of Colonel and
Mrs. Davis of the marriage, in connection with the arrange-

596

SUPREME COURT.
Patterion v. Gaines et ux.

merits which were made by them, at.the request of its father,
for the birth of the child, and the father's great confidence in
th~m, it is said, is extraordinary -and unaccountable. But is
it not equally so, that, under such circumstances, he should not
have communicated to them the reverse? The latter is orainarily the usual c6nfidence betweeh the parties upon sich
occasions, and when it is not .made, an inquiry suggests' itself
at once why it wag not done. Its not having been done,
though extraordinary, -proves nothing dither one way or the
other; the mind is left to connect other facts with it, for the
purpose of enabling us to conclude what inference can justly
be made from such an incident, so mitch out of the way of
the confidence between parties ripon such occasions. There
are no such facts in this case to aid such an objection. There
are facts independent of'it, '"hich happened afterwards, which
re el " it.
.The witnesses speak of the extraordinary affection manifested by Mr. Clark for this child,
his daily visits, parental and endearing fondness, -his
costly .presents and manifested pride in-her, as time developed her-mind and appearance,
-and that he always called her Myra Clark. All of this is
.not inconsistent with what men' of generous temper will and
should do to repair as much as they can, in such cases, their
indiscretior as to.the birth of a child. But when a parent does
it, with subsequent declarations, made over and over again, to
several persons, of 'a child's legitimacy, they may -well be
united with the latter to remove the objection, that Mr. Clark
had not mentioned his marriage to Colonel" and Mrs. Davis.
Besides, let it be remembered that the evidence shows, up to
that time, he had mentioned his marriage to no one. Madame
Despau, his wife, and himself only'knew the. secret, and his
influence over them made it his own, until they could speak
free from the apprehensions -excited in them by his declaration,
that the marriage was not to be disclosed until the marriage
with De Grange had been judicially annulled. He was a man
of no ordinary character or influence upoi those who were
about him. His natural fitness to control became habitual, as
his wealth and standing increased, and it was exercised and
involuntarily yielded to by all who associated or who were in
business with him. He was a man of high qualities, but of
.no rigor of virtue or self-control ; -energetic,
enterprising,
'courageous, affectionate, and generous, but with a pride which
had'yielded .to no mortification until his affection subdued it'.to
a sense -of justice 'in behalf of his child. As to Mrs. Clark's
subsequent connection.with Gardette whilst she was the wife
of Mr. Clark, considering it alone or with those -reasons which
.

JANUARY T.ERM, 1848.

597

Patterson v.-Gaines et Ux.

have been urged against the fact of that marriage, our concIugion is, that, inexcusable as her conduct was, there is not enough
to make the fact of the marfiage with Mr. Clark doubttfuL
Discarding from our consideration altogether the irritation
and impositions to which this female had been subjected from
her girlhood, and her well-founded fears of the fidelity of Mr.
Clark, and admitting she was very deficient irn her apprehension of the sacredness of marriage, however much it may
expose.her virtue and her affection for her lawful husband to
conclusions against both, we do not de'em it to be a fact strong
enough tb set aside the testimony of one witness who swears
positively to her marriage with Mr. Clark, and all the corroborating proof of that fact in the case. It will raise a suspicion
against the marriage, in this most .curious and original chapter
of domestic life, not easily removed from the minds of those
wivho indulge it. But we cannot permit it to prevail over the.
legitimacy of her child, estabilished, as we think ourselves
obliged to say it has been, in conformity with those rules of
evidence which long experience and the wisdom of those who
have gone before us in courts of equity have deemed the best
to ascertain, in cases of doubt, the affinity and blood-relationship of social life.
- But it is -still said, admitting the marriage with Clark to have
taken place in Philadelphia, that Mrs. Gaines cannot'inherit
from her father, his marriage with her mother being void, on
account of. her previous marriage with De Grange.
'This will depend upon the marriage with De Grange having
been a valid marriage. Or upon its beifng void for one of
those causes which disable persons from contracting marriage.
The burden of proof in such a case is not upon the party asserting the* validity of the second marriage, but on the other,
who asserts its inivalidity on account of the validity of the first.
Both aro affirmative declarations. Ei incuinbit probatio qui
dicit, non qui negat. The argument is, the marriage with De
Grange stands in the way of any right of Mrs. Gaines to inherit from her father, until the record of the conviction of De
Grange for bigamy has been produced. We do not understand
the law to be so. A bigamist may be proved so, in a civil suit,
by any of those facts from which marriage may be inferred.
Reputation of marriage is not enough, but facts from which it
,may be inferred are so. In a prosecution for the offence, there
must be proof of an actual marriage. The confession of the
big mist will be sufficient in a civil suit, when made under
circumstances which imply no objection to it as a confession.
De Grange did make such a confession. Madame Benguerel
says, in answer to the seventh interrogatory put to her, - "My

598

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

husband and myself were very intimate with De Grange, and
when we reproached him for his baseness in imposing- upon
Zuline, he endeavoured to excuse himself by saying, that, at the
time of his marrying her, he had abandoned his lawful wife,
and never intended to see her again." Record, 212. And her
answer to the cross-interrogatory is,-" I am not related to
nor connected with the defendants, nor with either of them, nor
with the mother of the said Myra, nor am I interested at all in
this suit. It was in New Orleans where I obtained my information. It will be seen by my answers how I knew the -facts.
I was well acquainted with De Grange and the said Zuline,
and I knew the lawful wife of the said De Grange, whom he
had married previous to his imposing himself in marriage upon
Zuline." The credit of this witness is unassailed. Here,
then, is proof enough of a subsisting marriage between De
Grange and another female, when hc married Mrs. Gaines's
mother, to invalidate the latter.
But suppose Madame Benguerel had not given such testimony, or that her credit had been successfully assailed; what
would then be the state of the objection? Just this: as all the
other witnesses who speak of the prosecution of De Grange
for bigamy speak of his conviction only as hearsay or common
report, the defendant cannot call upon the plaintiff for record
proof 6f it, without placing limself in the inconsistent attitude of rejecting the hearsay to be proof of its existence, but
giving to him the right to call for its production. The testimony of Madame Benguerel was introduced by the plaintiffs.
without any obligation upon them tb have done so. It establishes the fact of De Grange's previous marriage, for all the
purposes of this controversy. The denial, in the answer of the
defendant, that Mr. Clark was ever married, is the assertion of
a fact, of which the defendant cannot, in the nature of things,
have positive :knowledge, and is therefore no more tian a
declaration of his belief. One witness, therefore, overrules the
denial. But. there is no force in this objection for another reason. When, in the progress of a suit in equity, a question of
pedigree arises, and there is proof enough, in the opinion of the
court, to establish the marriage-of the ancestor, the presumption
of law is, that a child. of the marriage'is legitimate, and it will
be incumbent upon him who denies it to disprove it, though
in doing so he may have to prove a negative.
.Further upon this point, the record of De Grange's conviction cannot be called for, as there is proof that it could not be
found .in the proper office in New Orleans, where it should be.
The cooplainants do not rely upon such proof to establish the
*tt that D& Gwmge was a married man when he married Zu-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

599

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

line. His declaration to Madame Benguerel, associated with
other facts, sufficiently proves it.
Before leaving this point, however, we will make a single
remark upon what was said in the argument, that, if the record
of De Grange's conviction had been produced, it would not
have been competent testimony, from -its being res inter alios
acta.
The general rule certainly is, that a person cannot be affected,
niuch less concluded, by any evidence, decree, or judgment, to
which he was not actually, or in consideration of law, privy.
But- the" general rule. has been departed from so far as that
wherever reputation would be admissible evidence, there .a
verdict between strangers, in a former. action, is evidence also ;
such as in cases of manorial rights, public rights of way, immemorial custom, disputed boundary, and pedigrees. Duchess of Kingston's case, 11 Howell, State Trials, 261; Davies, De.
mand., Lowndes, Tenant, 7 Scott, N. R. 141; Doe d. Bacon
v. Brydges, 7 Scott, 333; Read v. Jackson, per Lawrence, 3., 1
East, 355; Brisco v. Lomax, 8 Adol. & Ell. 198; Evans v.
Reeg,. 10"Adol. & Ell. 151; Biddulph v. Ather, 2 Wel. 23.;
.Tooker v. Duke of Beauford, 1 Burr.- 146, as to manorial
rights; Brisdo v. Lomax, 8 Adol. & El. 198, as to disputed
boundary; Laybourn v. Crisp, 4 Mees. & Wels. 329, as to
questions of immemorial custom; Travers v. Ohalloner, Gwill,
1237, as to disputed modus and pedigree; Carr v. Heaton,
Gwill, 1261. In Neal & Duke of Athol v. Wilding, Strange,
1157, .the court rejected a special verdict in a foimer suit-; the
defendants not having been parties to that suit, which was
offered to:prove three of the descents which.were necessary to
make out the Duke's pedigree. Mr. Justice Wright differed from.
themajority of the judges on that occasion, and in Buller's N.P.,
4th ed.,' p. 233, it is said that the opinion of that learned judge
was generally approved, though the determination by the rest
of the court was contrary. And the point has been since repeatedly ruled in conformity with the opinion of Mr. Justice
Wright.
.But it may be said that the real fact was not what our conclusion is upon this point. Let it be remembered by those
who may say so, that possibilities are the enemies of truth, indicating more frequently than other.wise the unpreparedness of.
a mind to receive it, rather than its uncertainty. They have
no standing in the law againsE a violent presumption, which
is plena probatio, or full proof.
Having disposed. of all the objections which were urged, or
wfiich can be raised upon this record, against the most interesting and essential fact in the case of the complainants, -we-

600

SUPREME COURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

proceed to give our conclusions upon the legal points made
for the reversal of the decree of the Circuit Court.
They were, that a suit at the instance of a forced heir
cannot be maintained against a purehaser, until the donee's
property has been discussed.
It was said the decree was not final.
That the stattite of limitations barred a recovery.
And last, that the decree directs the property for which the
defendant is .sued to be -conveyed and surrendered to Mrs.
Gaines, instead of making it liable as a. portion of Daniel
Clark's estate, out of which the forced heir's ligitime is to be
calculated.
The first objection would prevail against the decree, if Mr.
Patterson's was such a purchase. It is not so.
The defendant is* the alienee of the purchasers who bought
the property at auction, in the year 1820, from the executors of
Mr. Clark under the will of 1811.. It is admitted that the
property was a part of Mr. Clark's estate when he died.
These sales were made without any authority, judicial or
otherwise. They were made after the time When, by the law.
of Louisiana, the relation of the sellers as executors had expired. Nor can it be said they were legal on account of the
power of attorney given to Mr. Relf and Mr. Chew by Mrs.
Clark, the mother and universal legatee of the testator. She
could give no power to the executors to dispense with the law
prescribing the manner for making the sale of a succession.
Her power of attorney was not of itself, nor was it treated by
the executors, to make for her a legal acceptance of the succession. It was neither an express nor a tacit acceptance of
the succession, casting upon her the responsibilities resulting
to a donee of a isuccession by its acceptance. It might have
been used as an act done by her from which her intention to
accept the succession might have been inferred, which would
have been a legal acceptance. Bit it was not 'so treated.
Until the acceptance was made as the law required it to be,
every act performed under it by the attorneys was void..
The power. was also given when -the possession of the
estate was lawfully in the executor , for the purpose of enabling them to discharge their functions according to law. It
could not invest them with any power, either when their con-nection with the estate as executors existed, or afterwards, to
sell any part of it in a way not permitted by the law. ,
One of the executors, Mr. Relf, received letters testamentary
on the 27th August, 1813. The other, Mr. Chew, on the 21st
January, 1814. Without delay, on the same day that he received' letters, Mr. Relf Lpplied for leave to sell the movable

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

601

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

and immovable property of his testator. It was granted. For
reasons stated in a subsequdnt application, he applied for an
extension of the order as to the time for making a sale. It
was allowed, without any alteration of the times for ,,Ivertising the property he wished to sell, as fied in the first order.
The movable effects were to be advertised ten days. The
slaves and other immovable effects thirty days. The defendant depends upon these orders for the regularity of the . sales
and the validity of the purchase made by his alienor, Correjollas, the original purchaser. The sale of the property bought
by Correjollas was made in 182G. The time for making the
sales, according to the order of the court, had passed more
than six "-ars. , The time within which the executors could
act as sucn by the law of Louisiana had expired. They had
neither legal nor delegated authority from the donee of the
estate, recognized as such by the law of Louisiana, to make
the sale. It-was a sale without judicial order, ---.a sale in disregard of, and in violation of, the law, - one ;which the law of
Louisiana makes absolutely void. If considered as having
been made under the orders for sale given by the court, it is
also absolutely void. It is necessary to show, in all cases 'of
forced sales, meaning such as are done by judicial order, particularly of the property of a succession, or estate of a
deceased person, - that all the formalities of the law have
been strictly complied with, or the sale will be annulled. Delogny v. Smith, 3 Louis. R. 421; Donaldson v. Hull, 7 N.
S. 113; Marsfield v. Comeaux, 7 N. S. 185; 8 N. S. 246; -4
Louis. R. 204;" 11 Martin, 610, 675; 2 Louis. R. 328.
Under these decisions, and the view which we have taken
6f this point of the case, the fact of notice by the purchasers, and by the defendant from them, of the illegal- and
fraudulent sale, cannot be denied. The defendant knew, from
the titles which he received from the purchaser, Correjollas,
and from that-bought by him from the other alienee of Correjollas, that the sales had been made by Mr. Reif and Mr. Chew
in a representative character, and. it was his duty to inquire if
they legally filled it. Not having done so,-he has bought in
his own wrong, and the titld by which he claims the pruperty
must be annulled. We have confined our remarks strictly to
the objection, that these sales were made by the donee, or universal heir of the will, without adducing other causes found in
the proceeding of the executors, of which this record is but
too fruitful, to show that the objection has no foundation in
fact.
Of the statute of limitations we will only-say, that the statute in force at the time the suit is brought determines theVOL. VI.
51

602

SUPREME C'OURT.
Patterson v. Gaines et ux.

right of the party to sue for a claim, and that !he time under
that in force when this suit was commenced had not expired.
We ought, though, to say, to prevent future misapprehension,
that it is not regularly in the pleading of this cause.
It is also said that the decree of the Circuit Court is not
final, in the sense contemplated by the law, to give to this
court appellate jurisdiction. Indeed, we do not see how a
decree could be more so. Nothing is left open between the
parties; it embraces the pleadings as well as the proofs in the
cause, and directs the property held by the defendant, as it is
set forth in the pleadings, to be conveyed and surrendered to
Mrs. Gaines. And it is only because the decree is subject to
the objection, that the lgitime of Mrs. Gaines in her father's
estate is to be calculated out of the whole of it, so as to ascertain and preserve distinct from the controversy the disposable
quantum to which the donee is entitled under the will of 1811,
that we shall direct it to be reversed.
Mrs. Gaines, as the forced heir of her father, is entitled to
such a portion of his estate as he could not deprive her of,
either by donations inter vivos or mortis causa. The will of
1811 is not null on account of its being a donation exceeding
the quantum which the father could- legally dispose of, but is
only reducible to that quantum.
To determine the reduction to which. the donation in the
will of 1811 is liable, the 29th article of title 2d of dona-'
tions intervivos and mortis causa,ch. 3, sec. 2, of the code of
1808,. gives the rule. The disposable quantum in this instance
would be, one 'fifth of the aggregate of the property of- the
decedent in Louisiana; the Ugitime" four fifths. Code of
1808, 212, tit. 22.
We shall direct the decree of the court below to be reversed,
and adjudge that a decree shall be made in the said court, in
this suit, declaring that a lawful marriage was contracted in
Philadelphia,- Pennsylvania, between Daniel Clark and Zuline
Carriere, and that Myra Clark, now Myra,-aines, is the lawful
and only child of that marriage. That the said Myra is the
forced heir of her father, and is entitled to four fifths of his
estate, after the excessive donation in the will of 1811 is reduced to the disposable quantum which -the father bould
legally give to others.
That the property described in the answer of the defendant,
Mr. Patterson, is a part of the estate of Daniel Clark at the
time of his death, that it was illegally sold by those'.who
had no right or. authority to make a sale of it, that the titles
given by them to the purchaser. and by the purchaser to the
defendant, Mr. Patterson, including those given by the buyer

JANUARY

TERM, 1848.

603

Patterson v. Gaines et ux.,

froh the first purchaser to -Mr.Patterson, are mill.and void, azid
that the same is liable, as a part of the estate of Daniel Clark'.
to the lgitime of the forced heir, and that the defendant,
Chailes Patterson, shall surrender the same-as shall be directed
among other things to be done in the prenilses, as.will appear
in the decree and'mandate of. this court. to the Circutt Court.in
Louisiana.
Order.
This appeal having been heard by.this court, upon the trauiscript of the record from the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the Eastern District.of Louisiana, and upon the- arguments 'of counsel, as well. for. the appellant as for the appelfees, this court, upon consideration of- the premises, doth now
here adjudge, order, and decree, that the decree of the said
Circuit Court be and the same is -hereby reversed, with costs,
and that such other decree, in the premises be passed as is
hereinafter ordered and decreed.
And this court, thereupon proceeding -topass such decree in
this cause as the said Circuit Court ought-to, have passed, doth
now here adjudge, order, and decree, that it be adjudged and
declared, and is hereby adjudged a4 declared, upon the. evidence in this cause, that a lawful marriage, was contracted and
solemnized at Philadelphia, in the. State of Pennsylvania, between the same Daniel Clark, in the bill and proceedings mentioned, and the same Zuline or Zuliene Carriere, in the bill
and proceedings mentioned; and that Myia Clark, now. Myra
Clark Gaines, and one of the complainants in. this cause, is
the lawful and only issue of the* said marriage, and was at
the death of her said father, Daniel Clark, his only legitimate
child and heir at law,.and as such was exclusively invested
with the chaiacter of his forced heir, and entitled to all the
rights of such forced heir.
And this court- doth further adjudge, order, and decree, that
all the property described and claimed by the defendantPatterson in his answer and supplemental answer, and in the exhibits thereto annexed, is part and parcel f the property composing the succession of said Daniel Clark: that the defendants Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, at the time and times
when, under the pretended authority of the testamentary ex-ecutors of the said "Daniel Clark, and the attorneys in fact
of the said Mary Clark in the' will -and proceedings mentioned, they caused the property so described and claimed by
the dafendant Patterson to be set up and sold at. public Auction, in December, 1820, and -when they- executed their act
of saledated.on the 18th February, 1821, to Gabriel-Corre

604

SUPREME COURT.
Patters.on-v. Gaines et ux.-

jollas for the two lots therein described, (which two lots constitute the same property described land claimed by the defendant Patterson as aforesaid,) had no legal right or authority
whatever so to sell and dispdse of the same, or in any-manner to alienate the same: that the said sale at auction and the.
said act of sale to Correjollas in confirmation.of the previous
sale at auction, were .wholly unauthorized and illegal, and
afe utterly null and void; and that the defendant Patterson,
at the time and' times, when ie purchased the property so described and claimed by .hin as aforesaid, (part from the said
Correjollas, the vendee of the defendants Relf and Chew, and
the residue from Etienne Meunier, the vendee of said Correjollas, himself the vendee of the same defendants,) was bound
to take notice of the circumstances which r~ndered the actings
and doings of the said defendants in the premises illegal, null;
and void; and that he ought to be deemed and held, and
hereby is deemed and held, to have purchased the. property
in question with full notice that the said sale at auction under
the pretended authority of the said defendants and their said
act of sale to Correjollas were illegal, null, and void, and in
fraud of the- rights of.the person or persons entitled to the
succession of the said Daniel Clark.
And the said court doth further adjudg?, order, and decree,
that all the property claimed and held by the, defendant Patterson as aforesaid now remains, unaliened and undisposed of,
as part and: parcel of the succession of the said Daniel Clark,
notwithstanding such sales at auction and act of sale in the
pretended right or under the pretended authority of the defendants Ref and Chew.
And the court cloth further adjudge, oraer, and decree, that
the complainant, Myra Clark Gaines, is justly and lawfully entitled, as the only forced heir of said Daniel Clark, to her
legitimate portion of four fifths of the said succession, and
to have four fifths of the property so claimed and held by the
defendant Patterson, as aforesaid, duly partitioned, apportioned,
and delivered or paid over to her, together with four fifths of
the yearly rents and profits accruing from the same, since the
same came into the said defendant's possession; and for which
th6 said defendant is hereby' adjudged, ordered, and decreed
to account to the said. complainant.
And the court doth now here remand this cause to the.said
Circuit Court for such further proceeding as .may b4 proper
and necessary to carry into effect 'the following directions; that
is to say, 1. .To cause the said defendant Patterson forthwith to surrender. all, the .property*so claimed and held by him as afore-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.5

605

United States v. Yates et.al.

said into- the hands of such curator, commissioner, or trustee
aq the said court may appoint for the Purpose; whose duty it
•shall be, under the directions of.7the court, to manage the said
-property to 'the best advantage, till, the whole rnatter and apportionment of the said two portibns (being the said four fifths
and one fifth) 9f the said property'shall have been compIeted
and finally liquidated, as a part of the succession of the said
'Daniel Clark, and in the mean time to collect and receive all the
rents, issues, and profits of the same, and to account- and bring
the same into court; to be there apportioned and paid over, or
in pairt retained for further directions.
2. To cause four fifths of the property so claimed and 'held
by the defendant Patterson ds aforesaid to be duly partitioned,
appropriated, and delivered or paid ove to'the said c6mplainant; and to retain tli residue subject to further directions for
-the appropriation of the same which either party shall be at
liberty to, move foi; and if the samd be proved and -found indivisible by its nature, or cannot be conveniently divided, to
cause it to be sold by public auction, after the time of 'notice
and advertisements, and as near as hay be in the .manner
prescribed by law in "thejudicial sale of the property of suecessions: and, in case of such sale by auction, to apportipn
and pay over four'fifths.of the net proceeds-of such sale tothe said. complainant, and to retain the residue subject to further directions, as aforesaid.',
3. To cause,an account. to be taken by the proper officer of
the court, and under the authority and direction of the court,
of the yearly rents and profits ac6ued. and accruing from the
said property since it came into the possession of the defendant Patterson; and -four Mfths of the -same to -be accounted
and paid to the said complainant, and the residue to be retained subject to such further directions as aforesaid.
4. To give such directions'and make such orders, from time
to time, as may be proper ad:necdssary for carrying into effect
the foregoing directions, and for enforcing the due obsetvance'
of the same by the parties and' the officers of the court.

TaE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS- V. HENRY YATES AND -ARcHIBALD
MCINTYRE.
M
Under the peculiar circumstances of this case, the counsel for the appellees was
permitted to strike out his appearance, but such withdrawal must not authorize
a motion to dismiss for want of a citation.
"
The appearance of counsel does not preclude a motion to dismiss for the want of
jurisdiction, or any other sufficient gr6und, except the want of a citationi. It is

51*

-

-

