260

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al:v. Wilson.

strict proof of it; and the court were right in not submitting
it to the jury to infer such an improbable and unreasonable
custom, by forced or astute' construction of equivocal expressions from a willing witness.
Let the judgment be affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern.
District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered- and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the. said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JOHN 'C.

SHEPPARD

AND

OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS

IN

ERROR,

V. JOHN

WILSON.
The statutes of Iowa provide a mode for taking.bills of exceptions, by directing that
they shall be tendered to the judge for his signature during the progress of the
tria, although judges may, and often do, sign bills of exception, nunc pro tunc,
after the trial.
"
Such is also the English practice under the Statute of Westminster 2, and such is
the practice recognized by this court.
Therefore, where a bill of exceptions was signed twoyears after the trial, the Supreme Court of Iowa were right in striking it out of' the record.
Where, after verdict, a motion was made for a new trial, which was held under a
continuance, and an entry was afterwards made that the motion was overruled,
and judgment entered on the verdict, but, at the time of such entry and judgment, the court was not legally in session, it was no error in the court, at a sub
sequent and regular term, to treat the entry thus irregularly made as a nullity, to
decide the motion,-and enter up judgment according to the verdict.
The difference between this case and that of the Bank of the United States v. Moss
(6 Howard, 31) pointed out.
A continuance, relating back, may bo entered at any time, to effect the purposes
of justice.

THIS cause was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa.
It was an action commenced in the District Court of Scott
county, in .the Territory of Iowa, by Wilson against Sheppard
and others, for a breach of a contract for hiring a steamboat.
It is not necessary to state the facts in the case, or any other
circunftances than those upon which the decision of this court
turned.
On the 7th of October, 1841, the cause came on for trial in
the District Court of Scott county, when the jury found- a verdict for the plaintiff; and assessed his damages at $ 1,837.50.
A bill of 'exceptions, containing a recapitulation of the evi-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

261

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

dence upon both sides aid sundry prayers to the court, is found
in its proper place in the record; but the date of its signature
by the judge is the 21st day of December, 1843, whereas. the
trial took place in October, 1841.
A motion for a new trial was made by the counsel for the
defendants upon several grounds, which it is not necessary to

specify.
In April, 1842, the court commenced in Scott county on the
4th, and in Clinton county, in the same district, on the 11th.
But on the 12th of April, whilst the court was in session i4
Clinton county, the following entries were made in .Scott
county:
-

C. SHEPPARD et al. -Assumpsit.
And now come tbhe parties by their attorneys, and the defendants move for judgment on the motion for a new trial,
made and argued at the last term of this court in -this cause,
and held under advisement until the present term.
JOHN WILSON V.JoH

Judgment.
It is considered by the court, that said defendants take
nothing by their said motion; and thereupon the plaintiff
moves the court f6-Judgment upon the verdict rendered by the
jurors aforesaid at the-last term of this, court in this cause. It
is therefore considered by the court, that 'the plaintiff recover
of the defendants the said un of eighteen hundred and thirtyseven dollars and fifty cents, his damages aforesaid in form
aforesaid assessed, besides his costs by him about his suit in
this behalf expended, and that execition issue therefor.
Appeal granted.
And thereupon, the said defendams, by their attorney, pray
an appeal, which was allowed.
Whether or not this appeal prevented the District Court of
Scott county from correcting the erroneous entry was one of
the questions before this court.
At October term, 1842, the following proceedings took place
in the District Court of Scott county: PtaintiffIs Motionfor Judgment.
And-afterwards, to wit, on the third day of October, in the
year of our Lord 1842, the said plaintiff filed in the court aforesaid the following motion -forjudgment in this cause, to wit : WILsoN v. SHE .PARD

AND OTHERnS.

And now, at this day, October term, 1842,-comes the said
plaintiff, by Mitbiroll & Grant, his attorneys; and moves the

SUPREME C OURT.
Sheppard et a. v. Wilbn.

court to enter up judgment in this cause, as of the last fall term
MITCHELL.- GRANT,for Plaint lfl
of .this court.
Second Judgment.
And afterwards, to wit, on the 7th day of October, in the
year last aforesaid, the following= proceedings were had, to
wit:'"WILSONV. SHEPPARD AND OTHERS. - Assumpsit.
This day came the said -plaintiff, by his attorney, and it appdaring to the court, that, at a previous term of this court, to
wit, the October term, 1841, the issue previously joined in this
cause was submitted to a jury, who, after hearing the evidence
and arguments of counsel, returned into court the following
verdict, to wit: they find the issue for the plaintiff, and assess
his damages at thp sum of eighteen hundred and thirty-seven
dollars and fifty cents.
Appeal prayed by Defendants.
Whereupon, a motion was made by the attorney for defendants for a new trial herein, which motion was, at said October
term, taken under advisement by the court; and it further aparing to the court, that this court has not at any time since
decided said motion, but that said motion was continued under
advisement until the present term, that the order of continuance at last ferm was not entered of.record. It is therefore
ruled, that said order of cofitinuance be entered "1nunc pro
tunc"; and the "c6urt, having :now fully considered the said
-motion for a new trial, doth overrule.the. same. And it is fur"ther considered by the court. that the plaintiff have and recover of 'and from the said defendants the said sum of eighteen
hundred and thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents, his damages
in manner and form aforesaid assessed, together with his costs
by him about his suit inthat behalf expended, and that a special execution against the property attached issue therefor;
thereupon the defendants prayed an appeal to the Supreme
Court.
To this judgment of the District Court, the counsel for the
defendants took a bill of exceptions, with a view to carry the
case Up to the Supreme Court of Iowa.
In January, 1844, the case came before the Supreme Court
of Iowa, when the counsel for Wilson moved to strike from the
record, and reject from the consideration of the court, the bill
of exceptions filed and dated in December, 1843; which motion the court sustained. The counsel for Sheppard then moved for a mandamus, directed to the judge of the District Court of Scott county, re-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

263

Sheppard et al. vo Wilson.

quiring him to sign and seal, nunc pro tunc, the bill of exceptions tendered on the original trial. But. the court refused to
grant the mandamus.
After some other proceedings, which it is not necessary to
state, the Supreme Court of Iowa, in January, 1845, affirmed
the judgment of the District Court of Scott county.
To review this aflirmance, a writ of error brought the case
-up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Clement Cox and Mr. Learned (in.
print), for-the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Grant,for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error assiglied twelve causes
of error, the last six of which are as follows :7th. The court erred, in entering an order for a continuance
of this cause, nunc pro tune, on motion therefor, at the October
terni, I842, and in rendering a judgment upon the verdict of the
jury at said term, upon a mere motion of the plaintiff.
8th. The court erred, in rendering a judgment at the, October
term, 1842, the second judgment in this record, after a writ of
error had been sued out and served, and made a supersedeasby
the allowance of a judge of the Supreme Court, which was
then pending.
9th. The Supreme Court erred, in expunging from the record the defendant's bill of exceptions, tendered at the trial of
the cause before thd Distriot Court of Scott county.
10th. The Supreme Court erred; in refusing the writ of mandamus, on the motion of, the plaintiff in error, to the judge of
the District Court of Scott 6ounty, requiring the said judge to
sign and seal, nunc pro tunc, the bills of exceptions tendered
at the trial of this cause before the District Court, by the defendants below, or show cause against the said motion.
11th. The said Supreme Court exred, in reversing the judgment of the District Court, rendered upon the verdict of the
jury on the 12th of April, 1842, on the ground that the supersedeas bond did not appear in the record with the writ of
error.
12th. The Supreme Court erred, in affirming the judgment
of the District Coprt, rendered on the 7th of October, 1842,
being the second judgment rendered in said cause, and which
said judgment was rendered when a writ-of error was pending,
and after the cause had been removed thereby from the jurisdiction of said District Court.
The argument on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, upon the
above points, was as follows.
We will now examine-the 7th and 8th errors assigned, as

264

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard. et al. v. Wilson.

they are connected in substance, and inquie what this first
judgment of April was in its character.
Suppose the plaintiffs in error had acquiesced in this judgment, and had not taken any steps to have it reversed, could
not the plaintiff below have enforced his. judgment? . Was it
not a final judgment in the cause, conclusive on its face, upon
the parties to it, upon the subject-matter embraced in the, suit?
Suppose the plaintiff below had issued his execution, levied it
upon property, and .sold the same in satisfaction of the judgment, while the judgment remained unreversed, and without
any supersedeas to restrain its operations, could an action have
been maintained against -the officei for levying upon, taking,
and selling the defendantsi property in satisfaction of the judgment debt ?- We say it could not; and the defendant in error
thought so, too, for he did issue his execution upon this judgment, which appears by the records, and the officer made his
full return thereof' before the 'writ of error to reverse the judgment was sued out. In 6 Peters, 8, the Supreme Court decide, - "If execution issue upon an erroneous judgment, the
party who acts under it is justified until it is reversed, for it is
the act of the court." So in 9 Peters, 8, the court say,-"A
'judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction," (which. means,
I suppose, a court having a legal' jurisdiction of the subjectmatter of the suit,) "while unreversed, concludes the subjectmatter of it between the parties to it."' In 3 Crauch, 300, the
court decide, that "1a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, although obtained by fraud, has never been considered
void, and all acts done under such judgments are valid as respects third persons." Such judgments, then, by these authorities, would protect the sheriff acting under the authority of an
•execution to enforce them. Such is the case of the first judgment rendered in this cause, as the xecord will 'show. Again,
in 3 Dallas, 401, the court say, that "although a judgment of
an inferior court be defective, yet, if in i nature it is final,
and one on which'an execution can issue, the party is entitled
to his writ of error." This judgment of the 12th of April;
1842, was not only final by its terms, but it was one bn which
an execution could issue, - one on which the plaintiff below
did actually. issue, and have a legal return of his execution, and
one on which we were entitled to a writ of error. We obtained
our writ of error, and made it a supersedeas, as the record
proves.
The court erred, then, in rendering a judgment at the October term, 1842, in this cause, after a writ of error had been
sued out. and was pending, and which was made a supersedeas
to the former judgment by allowance of a judge of the Su-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

265

""Slieppsrd et al. r. Wilson.

preme Court. -Wecontend that the writ of error was a supersedeas, and stayed all proceedings of the District Court upon
this judgment" after its date;' that the District Court was, from
that hour, held in abeyance in relation to the whole cause and
every matter connected with it, until the writ of error was disposed -of in the appellate court. For this 1iint I refer to 1'
Blackford, 483, where the court say, - CA writ of error is a
supersedeas, so far as to stay all proceedings until, the zwrit of
error is dispos ed of." If this be law, - and the'books are full
of similar'decisions, :-then we siay that the.Disttict Court. of
Scott couity had no power, at the October' term, 1842, nor at
any subsequent terni, to render the second judgment in 'this
causei'which was brought there- t be- reversed 'by.the second
Writ of eiror appended to the record, even if th cause was
otherwise open for the actiol df the "c6urt, and'a -judgment
might have' been legally rendered at that tdrm-, But I contend
that the District Court had no power or legal uthbrity'to alter
or amend a final judgment, at a subsequent term after it is
rendered. It can only amend as- to.mere -fdrm." We refer the
court to 1 Ohio Reports, 375,- where this 'doctrine is fully laid down; also to 2 Ohio Reports, 32; and 3 Ohio' Reports,
*306. In botli of these last cases, the* same principles are
decided. 'In'. 2 'Washigtons 0. C. R ' 433, the court decide, that, "where there is error in.entering a judgment; 'the:
court; at a subsequeiitterm; cannot set it aside; unfless 'ib-asentered by misprision of the clerk, by fraud.' This is a strong
case, from high authority, and is as directly in point, it'seems
to me, as language can iiiake a case. In 3 M shall's Ken.
Rep. 268, the court say,.'- " A court possesses no power, at a
subsequent term, to modify, set aside; or alter, on motion, a
judgment of a previous term. This proceeding nuit be by'
writ of error."' In the case at bar; the court not only set aside
a fitial judgnmsnt rendered at a preceding term, but in'defiance
of a writ of error issued to reverse that judgment; and this'
was done on the motiom of thejikrty who voluntarily asked to
have the erroneotis judgihet, as he termed it, rendered.
In I Greenleaf 369, the court decide, that "the judgment
of a court of competent jurisdiction -cannot -be dffected by
entries on the record, except upon a writ of error." How
much less, then, should an entire, judgment be annulled, however erroneous it-may be, and a'new judgment' entered at a
subsequent -term, upon a mere motion, and without any rule forthe-opposite party to show cause against it, as was the case at
bar. It is decided in 1 Blackford, 168, that- " a grant erro-'
neously made, until it is reversed, is a bar to a suit." The
reasoning, from'al these authorities, seems'to me to be this, VOL. VI..

"

266

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v.Wilson.

that an act done by legal authority, appearing on its face to
have been correctly done, however erroneous, can only be corrected in a legal manner, and by the proper tribunal in whom
the law has vested the power to correct the error complained of.
We contend that the court had no power, at the October
term, 1842, to enter. any judgment whatever in this cause; that
the court had not then any jurisdiction over it. The cause.
had been discontinued from the docket of the court, and could
not be brought before the court again, either by motion or by
any other process, 'but by a writ of procedendo from the Supreme Court, reversing the judgment of April upon a writ of
error. After the judgment of April, the case was no longer.on
the docket of the court, and the court had no authority to enter a continuance, nunc pro tunc, to regain a jurisdiction over.
the cause, when its judicial functions had ceased to exist in
relation to it. As well might the court docket a new c3e,
nunc pro tunc, with all its previous proceedings made out in
form, and proceed to render a judgment upon motion, withoit
a rule to the-opposite party to show cause against itas to do
what appears by this recordwas done, so far as either proceeding would be justified by the law. For an authority that there.
was a discontinuance of this cause, and that the District Court.
could not again assume any jurisdiction over it, except the case
had been remanded from the Supreme Court I refer the court
to Graham's Practice, 493, to 8 Petersdorft, 387, and the.
cases there referred to. In the first case, where a venire was
returnable on the fist day of the term, and the distringas was
dated the day after, the court held it to be a discontinuance,
because every process must be tested on the day it is awarded.
Here there wia "space of one .day, when the court had no jurisdiction over the case, and it was adjudged a discontinuance.
In the case at bar, there were six months when the court had
no jurisdiction over the action, and execution had been issued
and returned, and a writ of error was pending; yet the court
resumed a jurisdiction, entered a continuance contrary to the
fact, when the case was never intended-to be continued in contemplation of law, and rendered a'judgment. So, in 8 Petersdorff, No. 13, 390, the court say, - "There is a discontinuance,
because the action was not regularly continued from term to
term." Here, in the case at bar, the record shows that there
was not any continuance of the cause whatever. In No. 15,
same page, the court say, -" I On a writ of error, if a continuance be not alleged, it shall be intended a discontinuance, for
it is so in -fact."
How the court could preface their second judgment by the

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

267

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

declaration, that no judgment had been rendered on the verdict, when the first- judgnient'was staring it in the face, is,
to me, inconceivable.
It is something more than a legal
fiction.
We think the Supreme Court erred, in rejecting the bills of
exceptions referred to in the 9th error assigned. In the statute of' Iowa of January 25th i 1839, section 19, entitled "An
act'regulating practice in the District Courts," &c., page 375,
will be found the law of the Territory relating 'to bills of exceptions. The statute simply requires that they should be redticed to writing during -the progress of the trial. The other
provisions of the statute are not material to this cause. This
was done in our case. See the transcript, page 24. The bills
were prepared during the progress of the trial; they were then'
reduced to writing, as the exceptions arose. The counsel not
-agreeing to all the facts stated in the bills, they were submitted to the court for correction, in its discretion, according to
the facts, and to sign,' seal, and deliver them into the office of
the clerk, with the papers in the cause, in the event that the
motion for a new trial, held'under advisement, should not prevail. The-court mislaid the bills, but never refused to sign
them. At length they were found, signed, and returned, as
seen by the record. The Supreme Court rejected them because they were not filed in time.
We hold it to be both law and universal practice, that when
any' controversy arises between parties, in settling a bill of exceptions, an application can only be made to the court to correct the bill, according to the facts, which the court is always
presumed to possess and retain The bills bdoome a part of
the record of the court; and are always under its control, and
the court is as much bound, as an important part of its duty,
to see its bills correctly made out, as it is to inspect and. correct any other portion of its records and proceedings. In relation to this matter, all that we could do was to reduce our exceptions to writing, as we understood the facts to be. If the
other party objected to any of our statements, a reference could
alone be made to the court to'decide the matter between us,
and to correct the bills according to the facts. This we did,
and in proper time, under the statute. We submitted our bills
to the court for its judgment upon them.. The court held
them, with the.papers in the cause, to decide the motion for a
new trial. The court mislaid the bills, found them again,
signed and sealed them, as we had prepared them, without an
alteration; the best evidence, one would think, that they were
deemed, by the court, to be correct.
But the Supreme Court rejected them because they were not

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

in time; although the judge held them in his hands from -the
time of the verdict until he signed and filed them. Was it our
fault that they were not sooner in the record? The cause had
not come on for trial before the Supreme Court, upon the writs
of error. We then applied for a mandamus to the jiudge below, to sign the bills, nunc pro tuw, as of the term of the trial,
and when they were placed in- his possession. This would
have taken them out of the objection to our exceptions. But
the court overruled our motion. In the haste with which this
argument has been prepared, I have not been able here to refer
the court to authority upon this point of our case. Most of the
decisions of the courts, arising upon the subject of bills of exeptions; are based upon the particular facts of each case, or
limited by statutory provisions ; - a case analogous to-the one
at bar is, probably, -not to be found reported.
The eleventh eiror assigned has been noticed in a previous
part of this argument. That the court erred, in reversing the
first judgment of April 12th, 1842, upon the ground assumed
by the court, we cannot doubt. We think the court erred, in
t still greater-degree, in affiming the second judgment of the
7th of October; the second judgment, which is our 12th
specific error assigned. If the District Court erred, in reversing its own judgmeiit at a subsequent term, or striking it out
of the record after an execution had been issued and returned,
and after the cause had been removed from the jurisdiction of
the court by a writ of error that was then pending, it seems to
lis that the Supreme Court.doubly erred in sustaining both proceedings, and in afftming the second judgment.
Mr. Grant's argument, for the defendant in error, upon the
bove points, was as follows : The 9th assignment of error is the first one for the considertion of this court, to wit: - 1 Striking the bill of exceptions of
21 December, 1843, from the records of the Supreme Court."
In discussing this point, we make this preliminary question,
that this bill of exceptions is not a pait of record here, and the
propriety of rejecting it - cannot be examined by the court.
True, the clerk has sent it here, but unless it be a part of the
record, the court will not examine it.
" Nothing but what constitutes the record of the court*below
will be examined here." - Davis v. Packard, 6 Peters, 411.
"The plaintiff relies, for a reversal of the judgment, on his
having been entitled to a continuance, in consequence of an affidavit alleged to have been made in his behalf, and on his having objected to the cancelling the order of continuance. These
trounds of error, however, do not appear of record. The affi-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

269

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

davit and objection of the plaintiff could only be shown by a
bill of exceptious. The transcript of the record, to be sure,
contains a copy of the affidavit of continuance, together with.
a statement of the clerk, that he objected to proceeding to trial
after the order of continuance, and that he tendered a bill of
exceptions to the opinion of the court ordering the trial, which
the court refused to sign. These circumstances, however, are
only the statements of the clerk, and constitute nopart of the
record." - Wilson v. Coles, 2 Blackford, 403.
The bill of exceptions, filed with the record in the Iowa Supreme. Court, was stricken from the record; it .constituted a
part of the record no longer, and to make it a part of the record here, it must- have been embodied and made a part of the
bill of exceptions to the decision of the Iowa Supreme Court.It was not. See record, pages 32 and 33.
On this point, we refer to the following authorities - Huston v. Brown, 1 Blackford, 429; Henderson v. McKee, I ib.
347; Hays v. McKee, 2 ib. 1.1 ; Yanlandingham v..Fellows, I
Scammon, 283; Huff v. Gilbert, 4 Blackford, 20.
A bill of exceptions is a "pleading of the party, and is to
be construed most strongly against him who alleges the exception." - Rogers v. Hale, 3 Scanmon, 6.
"A bill of exceptions is the method of placing on the record
matters which do not properly belong to it, and it should contain the matter so intended to be placed on the record. A reference in the bill is not suifficient' -Berry v. Hale, 1 Howard, Miss. 315.
"When the clerk transcribed certain records intended to be
placed in the bill of exceptions, and stated that-they were the
records and executions referred to in the bill of exceptions.;
held, it did not spread them on the record." - Maundrig v. Rigby, 4 Howard, Miss. 222.
The bill of exceptions in this case, pages 32 and 33, does
not identify the paper referred to.
"The bill of exceptions refers to some extrinsic paper or
document, which is said to be marked B, and to be considered
part of the bill of exceptions; but what that docu'ment is we
do not know, for, in looking through the record, we find no
document which has such a mark, or is otherwvise identified.
It is true, -there is in the subsequent history of the case a document, but it has no mark of identity with the one referred to
by the judge in the 'bill of exceptions." - Oliver v.State, 5
Howard, Miss. 14-18.
".Nothing which does not properly belong to the record is
part of it, unless inserted in the bill of exceptions."
A bill of exceptions, stating that "the following evidence
23 *

SUPREME" COURT.
Sheppard et

. w.Wilson.

was offered," then adding, "he r k insert the same," is hicomplete, and does not make part of bll"record the evidence thus
attempted to be embraced in it, though contained in the transcript of the record. Rankin v. Holloway, 3 Smedes & Marshall, 614"It is said there ws a motion to quash the writ, and, that
the motion was improperly overruled; but as the writ is not
inserted in the record, we have no means of examining the objection, and must presume the decision correct." - State Bank
v. Brook, 4 Blackford, .485.
[Opinioi in the text, near bottom of page; there is no refer-'
ence to it in the marginal note.]
The bill of exceptions of the District Court of Scott county
was stricken from the records of the Supreme Court of Iowa;
how can it be made a part of the recoid here, unless included
in the bill of exceptions taken to thei- decision? Strike it out
of pages 16 et seq., and what is there in the bill of exceptions,
pages 32 and 33, to bring it before this court ?
But admit that it is properly -here, we say that tna 9th error
is not well assigned; the Iowa Supreme Court decided correctly
in striking it from the record.
The plaintiffs in error, in their printed argument by Learned,produce no authority on this point, place great stress on the
supposed fact, nowhere zxisting in reality, and nowhere appearing on the record, that the exceptions were by counsel reduced
to writing during the progress of .the trial, and by iifference
tender I to the court, and that the Iowa Supreme Court rejected - the bill of exceptions, because- it was not filed during
the trial.
"Most of the decisions of courts," says Learned, for plaintiffs
In error, ",ofthe subject of -bills of exceptions, are based upon
the particular facts of each case, or -limited by statutory provisions. A case analogius to the one at bar is, probably, not
to be found reported." If by this he refers to his side of the
case, we shall not deny it, but we show both authority and
statutory provisions in favor o rejecting this bill of exceptions.
The words, "no entry of record," that the bill of -exceptions
was tendered at the trial, are emphasized in the statement of
the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, thereby intending, we
suppose, to convey the idea that it appears in some other way.
"The statement of the bill of exceptions, as to the time
when it was taken, will prevail over the memorandum of the
clerk." - Carpnew v. Carravan, 4 Howard, Miss. 370.
"The bill of exceltions must show affirmatively that the
exception was taken at the trial, and if it does not so appear,
-the error will be fatal." -Patterson
v. Phillips, 1 Howard,
Miss. 572.

JANUARY TERM, 1848.
-Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

Perhaps Howard's Mississippi Reports me not high enough
authority for counsel. Hear the opinion of this court.
" It is not necessary," under laws of the United States,
"that a bill of exceptions should be,formally drawn and signed
before the rial is at an end The 'exception may be taken at
the trial; and noted by the court, and may afterwards, during
the term, be reduced to form, and signed by the judge; but
in 'such 'case it is signed nunc pro tunc, and purports on its
.face to be the same as if actually reduqed to form and signed.
during the trial; it would be a fatal error if it -were to appear
otherwise." -Walton v. United States, 9 Wheaton, 651.
'The bill of exceptions in this cause -was taken, reduced to
riting, "signed and sealed this -21st December, 1843," in
record, pages 23 and 24- The trial took place in October,
1841, nearly two years before.
It -appears conclusively from the bill of exceptions, that it
was not taken or tendered during the progress of the trial.
The statutory provisions of the Territory ,of Iowa will -not
assist the plaintiffs in error. Indeed, they are -perfectly conelusive on this point in fator of the defendant' in error.
The act of the Legislature of Iowa, approved January 25,
1839 (ee first edition of Iowa laws, piinted at Dubuque, in
1839), section 19, provides (375 of the statutes): "If, during the progress of any trial, in any civil cause, either
party shal allege an. exception to the opinion of the court, and
reduce the same to writing, it shall be the duty;of the judge
to allow said bill of exceptions, and to sign and seQl the same3
and said bill of exceitions.shall thereupon become a part of the
records of such cause; and if any judge refuse to allow and sign
said bill of exceptions tendered, and the same' is signed by three
or more disinterested by-standers, or attorneys of said court, the*
judge shall then"permit the said bill to be efid, and become
part of the 'record," &c.
- Mr. Grant then examined the cases from Missouri and Illinois, which States had statutes similar to Iowa, citing 7 Missouri, 351; 3 Scammon, 6, 17, 24,63; 2-Scammon, 253-26,
490. And cited, also, 9 John. Ch.345; 3 Cowen, 32.
This court has decided no less than fifteen-causes on bills of
exceptibns, down to 13 Peters. we will cite only such as bear
directly -on the case at' bar.
Walton v.United States, 9 Wneaton, '657, has been refLr-red
to. Ex parte Martha Bradstreet is, to our mind, conclusive for
our client.
".On the trial of a cause in the District Court of New York,
exceptions were taken .to the opinions of the court, delivered
during the progress of the trml; and, some time after the trial

272

SUPREME COQURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

was over, a bill of exceptions wa& tendered to the judge, which
he refused to sign, objecting to somine of the matters stated. in
the same, and at the same time altering the bill so tenaered, so
as to: conform to his recollections of the facts, and inserting in
the bill all that he deemed proper to be contained in the same;
which bill, thus altered, was signed by the judge."
"A rule was granted to show. cause, and the judge returned
the foregoing facts.
"By the cburt. This is not a case in which a judge has refused to sign a bill of exceptions. The judge has signed such
a bill of exceptions as he thinks correct. The object of the
rule is to compel the judge to sign a particular bill of exceptions which has been offered him. 'The court. granted a rule
to show cause, and the judge has shown cause by saying he
has done all that can be .required of him," &c.
"The law requires that a bill of exceptions should be taken
at the trial. If a party intends to take a bill of exceptions, he
should give notice to the judge at the trial ; and if he does not
file it at the trial, he shbould movethe judge to assign a reasonable time within which he may file it. A practice to file it
after the. term must be understood to be matter of consent between the parties, iinless the judge has made an express ord.er
in term, allowing such a period to prepare it." Ex parte Martha Bradstreet, 4 Peters, 102.
10th error. "1The Supreme Court erred in refusing the motion of the plaintiff, in error for a mandamus to the judge of
*the District Court." How comes this assignment of error in
the case of Sheppard et al. v. Wilson, defendant in error, here?
That was an ex parte proceeding against Judge Thomas
Wilson of the -District Court, to compel him, by mandamus, to
sign a bill of exceptions.. Has any writ of error been sued out
against Judge Wilson? Has he been cited to appear here?
The proceedings against him form no part whatever of the suit
of Sheppard et al. v. John Wilson; but if they did, and this
court can examine the question, it is settled by the case of Ex
parte Martha' Bradstreet.
The counsel for Sheppard et al. made a motion for a writ
to compel Judge Thomas- S. Wilson to sign and seal a particular bill of exceptions, or show cause; the motion is based on
a statement of facts, ex parte, which shows that no exceptions
were tendered during the trial; that the next day after the
trial the bill was tendered, and, the parties not being able to
agree as to the bill, Sheppard's counsel delivered the bill to the
court, requested the judge to correct, and, when corrected, to
sign it.
The bill, of exceptions was not tendered during the trial, as

JANUARY TERM, 1848.-

273

Sheppard et -al. v. Wilson.

the law of Iowa requires. No other time was appointed or al-,
lowed for tendering, as the laws of the United States require.
It was not, when tendered after the trial, such an one as the
judge could sign until he had coTrected it by his notes. In
other'words, the party requested the judge to do what the law
requires him to do, -to
prepare a correct bill of exceptions;
and because the judge neglected to prepare a new one, they
wish the court to compel him to sign a particular bill, which
they adnit was imperfect.
But a mandamus will not lie, in Iowa, to a judge, to compel
him to sign a bill -of exceptions. This writ issues only when
there is no other adequate remedy. .By the laws of Iowa of
1839, already quoted, if the judge refuses to, sign a bill of
exceptions, the by-standers may do it; and if the judge refuse
to allow it, when signed by them, to be placed on the record,
the Supreme Court, on affidavit, admits it to the record. No
mandamus can issue in Iowa in such a case; the legislature
have provided a party another remedy.
(The remainder of Mr.Grant's argument is omitted.)
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
When this case was before this court at the last term, on a
motion to dismiss the writ of error (see 5 Howard, 211), one
of the reasons urged was,-"11 That, Iowa having been admitted
into the Union as a State since the writ of error was brought,
the act of 1838, regulating its judicial proceedings as a Ternitory, is necessarily abrogated and repealed3 and consequently
there is no law in force authorizing this court to regxamine and
affirm or reverse a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of
the Territory, or giving this court any jurisdiction over it." And,
the court there say, -" This difficulty has be'en removed by an
act of Congress, passed during the present session, which authorizes the court to proceed to hear and determine.cases of
this description." It afterwards appeared that this c6urt had
been misinformed on this subject, and that by mistake the
State of Iowa had- been omitted in the act of 22d February,
1847. Since that time (at the present session of Congress), an
act has been passed to remedy this omission (see act of 22d of
February, 1848), and the court have proceeded to hear and determine. the case on the errors assigned.
Of the numerous errors assigned in this case, but three can
be noticed as coming properly, under the cognizance of this
court. The cause was originally tried before the District Court
of Scott county, and removed, by writ of error,. to the Suprenie
Court of the Territory of 'Iowa. That court -struck from the
record the bills of exceptions alleged to have.been taken on the

-

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

trial in the court below. Consequently, the -matters said to be
contained in those bills are not before this court.
But bills of exceptions were taken by the plaintiffs in error
to the ruling of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in rejecting the
bills sealed by the District Court, and in refusing to grant a
mandamus to the judge of the District Court to sign a bill of
exceptions nunc pro tune; and this rejection and refusal are
now assigned for error in this court. It has been questioned
whether the action of the Supreme Court of Iowa on these
points is the proper subject of a -bill of exceptions; or can be
reviewed in this court. But as we perceive no error in the
course pursued by the court, it will be unnecessary to notice
these objections.
,The case was tried in the District Court of Scott county at
October term, 1841, and ihe bill of exceptions which was
struck from the record was dated on the 21st of December,
1843. It did not purport to have been taken on the trial, nor
was there any evidence on the record that any exceptions were
taken or noted by the judge. And, assuming the fact as stated
by the counsel for the defendant below, that he had taken ,the
exceptions during the trial, and had reduced them to form afterward§, yet the -bill was not settled during the term in"consequence of objection made to certain matters therein by the opposite counsel; and the judge, though, he Signed a bill two
years after the trial, refused to sign it nunc pro tunc, as if takef
on the trial.
The act of Assembly of Iowa regulating the practice of their
courts provides, that "if. during the progress of any trial in
any civil cause, eithe party shall allege an exception to the
opinion of the court, and reduce the same to writing, it shall be
the duty of the judge to allow said exceptions, and to sign and
seal the same; and the said bill of exceptions shall thereupon
become a part of the record of-such cause; and if any judge
of the District Court shall refuse to allow or sign such bill of
exceptions tendered, and the same .is signed by three or more
disinterested by-standers or attorneys of said court, the judge
shall then permit the said bill to be -iled and become a part of
the record; if the judge refuse, the Supreme Court of the Territory may, when such cause is brought before them by writ of
error or appeal, upon proper affidavit of such refusal, admit such
bill of exceptions as part.of the record."
This act requires that -the exceptions must be taken during
the progress. ot the triali reduced io writing, and tendered to
the judge, and gives ample renied to the party injured, in
case of-a refusal to sign them or permit them to be made'a part
of the record. If the party does not avail himself of the'rem-

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

275

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

edy given him by the act, he has no one to blame but himself.
It is true, judges may, and often do, sign bills of exception.pater
the trial, nunc pro tunc, the bills being dated as if taken on the
-trial; but the propriety of their refusal to do so on particular
occasions depends on so many cirdi nstances whici-cannot appear on the record, and are known only to themselves, that
we ought not to presume they have acted improperly in the
exercise of their discretion. Certainly a judge ought not to be.,called on td make up a bill of exceptiona two or more- years
after a trial, where the counsel have disagreed as tq the facts,
and failed to -settle the exceptions at the term in which the
causb was tried. It is too plain for argument, also, that a bill
purporting fo be taken more than two years after the trial cannot properly be made a part of the record, by any possible
construction of this act. It is much more stringent in its requirements as to the -time and mode in which a bill of exceptions shall be obtained and placed on record, than the Statute
of Westminster 2, which first gave the bill of exceptions. Yet
under that statute, the courts have always held that the exception should be taken and reduced to writing at the trial.' Not
that they need be drawn up in form;. but the substance must
be reduced to writing whilst the thing is transacting. 1 Bacon's Abr., tit. Bill of Exceptions.
The practice is well settled, Elso, by the decisions of this
court. See Ex parte Martha Bradstreet (4 Peters, 106); and
the case of Walton v. The United States (9 Wheaton; 657),
which is precisely parallel with the present. There the objection was made, that the'bill of exceptions was not taken at the
trial, but purported on -its face, as in this ease, to have been
taken and signed after judgment -endered in the cause. "It is
true," say the court, "that the bill f exceptions states that the,
evidence was objected to at the trial; but it is not said that
any exception was then taken to the decision of the court. So
that, in fact, it might be true that the objection was made, and
yet not insisted upon by way of exception.- But the more material consideration is, that the bill of exceptions itself appears,
on the record, not to have been taken at all until 'after the judgment. It is a settled principle, that no bill of exceptions is valid
which is not for matter excepted-to at the trial. 'We do not mean
to say that it is necessary (and in point of practice we know it
to be otherwise) that the bill of exceptions should be formally
drawn and signed before the trial is at an end. It will be sufficient if the exception be taken at the trial; and noted by the
court with the requisite certainty; and it may afterwards, during-the term, according to the rules of the court, be reduceT
to form, and signed by the judge. . And so,.in fact, is the gen-

276

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

eral practice. But in all such cases, the bill of exceptions isigned nunc pro tune, and it purports on its face to be the same
as if actially reduced to writing during the trial. And it would
be a fatal error if it were to-appear otherwise; for the original
authority under which bills of exceptions are allowed has always been considered to be restricted to matters of exception
taken pending the trial, and ascertained before'verdict."
These cases are conclusive as to the correctness of the pro-.
ceedings of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in striking out the
bill of exceptions and refusing to award a mandamus to compel
the district judge to sign a bill nunc pro tune. It will be unnecessary, therefore, for this court to express any opinion on
the questions, whether, under the peculiar provisions of' the
statute of Iowa, a party who had neglected to pursue the coursepointed out by it would be entitled, undei any circumstances,
to the remedy of a mandamus; and if so, whether a refusal bythe Supreme Court to grant it could be alleged for error in this
court.
The only other assignments of error which can be noticed
by this court are those numbered 11 and 12: -" That the Supreme Court erred in affirming the action of the District Court
in regard to the judgment of April 12, 1842, on the ground that
the supersedeas bond did not appear on the record with the writ
of error. And in affiring the judgment rendered by the Distriet Court at October term, 1842." ,
To understand the nature of these objections, it will be
proper to state that this case was tried in the District Court of
Scott county, at October term, 1841, and a verdict rendered for
the plaintiff; and the defendants having moved for a new trial,
the case was-continued under a curia advisarevult. Owing to
a mistake (the cause of which it is unnecessary to explain), the
court did not meet at the time appointed by law for the April
term in Scott county, but -on the week following, which had
been fixed for the term of a neighbouring county. On the 12th
of April, 1842, an entry was made on the record, overruling the
motion for a new trial, and rendering a judgment on the verdict. The mistake was soon'after discovered, and the defendant sued out a writ of error to reverse this judgment, as being,
coramf non judice; but before the writ was served, at the next
regular term of the District Court, in Qctober, 1842, that court,
treating the entry made on the record in April as a nullity, because entered by the clerk without any authority from the
court, made the following entry of judgment: "This day came the said plaintiff, by his attorney, and it
appearing to the court that, at a previous term of this court, to
wit, the October term, 1841, the issue previously joined in this

JANUARY TERM, 1848.

277

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

cause was submitted to a jury, who, after hearing the evidence
and arguments of counsel, returned into court the following
verdict, to wit: -They
find the issue for the, plaintiff, and
assess, his damages at the sum of $ 1,837.50; whereupon a
motion was made by the attorney for the'defendants for a.new
trial herein, which motion was, at said October term, taken
under advisement by the court. And it further appearing to
the court, that this court has not, at any time since, decided said
motion, but that said motion was continued under advisement
until the present term; that-the order of continuance at last
term was not entered of record; it is therefore ruled that said*
order of continuance be entered, nunc pro tunc. And the court,
having now fully considered the said motion for a new trial,
doth overrule the same; and it is further considered by the
court, that the plaintilf have and recover," &c. (completing the
entry of a judgment in the usual form).
In this action of the court we can see no error, or any just
ground of complaint on the part of the plaintiffs in error. If
the court had ordered the prior entry, made in April, to be
stricken from the record, as a mistake or misprision of the clerk,
being made without the authority or order of the court, the
record could not have been successfully assailed. The court
certainly had full power to amend their records, and are the
sole judges of the correctness of the entries made therein; and
although they have not said in direct terms that this entry
should be erased or stricken from the record, they have done
so by violent implication, when they adjudge that the court'had
never decided the motion for a new trial, and treat the record
as if the entry of the 12th of April was not upon it, or had
been entirely erased from it. The objection, that the record
was beyond the reach of amendment, because the writ of error
had become a supersedeas and removed it to the .Supreme
Court, is not founded in fact. The writ of error had not been
served on the court, and the record was therefore legally, as
well as physically, in possession of the District Court, and. subject to amendment. In order to a supersedeas, the statute of
Iowa evidently requires a service of the writ upon the court
below, and not only so, -'but "that one of the judges of the
Supreme Cou~rt shall indorse upon the transcript of the court
below alhuwance of said writ of error for probable cause ;. and
in such cases, the party issuing such writ shall give bond to
the opposite party, with good security," &c. There is no evidence on the record, that any of these requisites had been complied with.
It .is, perhaps, hardly, necessary to state that this case bears
no resemblance to that df The'United States Bank v. Moss,
VOL. V.
24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

decided at this term. There, the Circuit Court had set aside a
regular valid judgment entered by the court at a former term,
after a verdict and trial on the merits; not on the ground thu
the clerk had'made the entry by mistake or without proper authority from -the court, but because of some supposed error in
law. This case exhibits a question of 'amendment, and nothing more i it was, therefore, wholly within the discretion of
the court below, who were acquainted with all the facts, and
belonged appropriately and exclusively to them. Matheson v.
Grant, 2 Howard, 263, 284. Besides, the action of the court
wrought no injury to the plaintiffs in error. If they had removed the record to the Supreme Court by the first writ of error before this amendment was made, and obtained a reversal
of the judgment because it was eutered without the authority
.of a properly constituted court, the Supreme Court would -have
remitted the record, with orders to proceed and enter a regular
judgment on-the verdict.
The objection, that the court below could not make this
amendment for want of a continuance, is hardly worthy of notice. The entry of C. A. V. operates as a continuance, and if
it did not, a continuance could be entered at any time. to effect
the purposes of justice. Such technical. objections have long
deased to be of any avail in any court,. and are entirely cut off
by the statute of jeofails of Iovfa of 24th January, 1839, section 6.
• The judgment 9f the Supreme, Court of Iowa must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per centurn per annum.

