OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

GILL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF C
No. 85. Argued November 21, 22, 1895. -Decided

S.

January 6,1896.

An employ6, paid by salary or wages, who devises an improved method of
doing his work, using the property or labor of his employer to put his
invention into practical form, and assenting to the use of such improvements by his employer, cannot entitle himself, by taking out a patent
for such invention, to recover a royalty or other compensation for such
use.

A person looking on and assenting to that which he lhas power to prevent
is precluded from afterwards maintaining an action for damages.
Solomons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342, affirmed and applied to this case.

Tins was a suit by Gill to recover of the United States the
sum of $94,693.04: upon an implied contract for the use of certain machines covered by letters patent issued to the claimant.
The petition alleged in slubstance that from March, 1864, to
March, 1881, the claimant was employed as machinist, foreman, and draftsman at the Frankford Arsenal in the State
of Pennsylvania, and since March, 1881, as master armorer
at such arsenal, receiving during the term of his employment
a per diem compensation for his services. His engagement
required him to perform manual labor and to exercise his
mechanical skill in the service of the government, but did not
require the exercise of his inventive genius in such service,
nor secure to the government the right to use any of his
inventions without compensation.
That at sundry times from 1869 to 1882, six patents were
granted to him for a cartridge-loading machine, a weighing
machine, a gauging machine, a cartridge anvil, a heading
machine, and a priming tool for reloading; that at different
times he assigned to individuals or corporations all these inventions, but reserved to the government the right to use
them.
The petition further alleged that the reasonable value
of such use by the government amounted to the sum of

GILL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

$94,693.04, no part of which had ever been paid; that no
action upon the claim had been -had in any department of
the government beyond' repeated acknowledgments, by the
Ordnance Department, of claimant's right to compensation
for the use of the inventions.
The government made a general denial of the allegations
of the petition, and submitted the case to the Court of Claims,
which made a finding of facts, the material portions of which
are printed in the margin, ' and entered a judgment dismissing
1(1) During the period of time within which the claimant invented the
devices hereafter mentioned he was in the defendants' employment, and
received wages, or a salary, for his services. The terms of his employment
required him to exercise his mechanical skill in the service of the defendants, but did not require the exercise of his inventive genius In such service,
nor secure to the defendantF the right to use any inventions of the claimant
without compensation therefor.
Letters patent of the United States were granted to the claimant, while
in the service of the defendants, as follows: No. 97,904, dated December
14, 1869, for a cartridge-loading machine; No. 185,858, dated January 2,
1877, for a cartridge-weighing machine; No. 208,903, dated October 15,
1878, for a cartridge-gauging machine; No. 220,472, dated October 14, 1879,
for a cartridge anvil; No. 241,962, dated May 24, 1881, for a cartridgeheading machine; No. 257,860, dated May 16, 1882, for a priming tool for
reloading.
(2) The manner in which the inventions above referred to originated
and came into the use of the government was as follows:
In 1867 the claimant, being a machinist or skilled mechanic in the Frankford Arsenal and getting as compensation $4 a day, came to General Ben6t,
the commanding officer, and suggested that an improvement could be made
In the method of loading cartridges, and exhibited to the commanding
officer then or subsequently his device for an improvement which is now
embodied in patent No. 97,904.
General Ben6t, after due examination and consideration, authorized the
construction of such a machine. 'The machine was built at a cost of $500
by the United States according to the design of the claimant. On its completion it proved to be thoroughly satisfactory to the commanding officer,
who authorized the construction of a second machine. The construction
of both took place under the immediate supervision of the claimant, and
such supervision was a part of his ordinary duty and employment. Subsequently successive commanding officers ordered from time to time six other
machines to be constructed, which in like manner were built under the immediate supervision of the claimant, and all of these eight machines were
completed prior to the claimant filing his application for a patent.
. After his patent had been issued a ninth machine was also ordered, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the claim upon the ground that where an employ6 of the government takes advantage of his connection with it to introduce
an unpatented device into the public service, giving n6 intimation, at the time, that he regards it as property or that he
intends to protect it by letters patent, but allows the government to test the invention at its own exclusive cost and risk
by constructing machinery and bringing it into practical use
before he applies for a patent, the law will not imply a contract; and that a contract will not be implied in favor of an
employ6 who has thus placed a patented device in the public
service as to machines constructed and used after his patent
has been obtained.
in like manner constructed undef the immediate supervision of the claimant.
These machines have been used by the government at the Frankford Arsenal in the manufacture of cartridges, and continue in use to the present
time.
(3) At no time did the claimant ever bring his invention before a commanding officer or other agent of the government as a subject of purchase
and sale ; nor did he ever raise an objection to the use of the invention as
set forth in the preceding finding; nor did he ever enter into an express
agreement, written or oral, whereby a license was granted or intended to be
granted to the government to operate and use the machine described in the
preceding finding, or whereby the claimant waived or intended to waive his
legal or equitable right, if any, to compensation; nor "did any commanding
officer ever undertake or assume to incur a legal or pecuniary obligation on
the part of the government for the use of the invention or the right to manufacture thereunder.
The claimant was not employed to make inventions nor assigned to that
duty, and his invention, until it was reduced to paper in the form of an intelligible drawing, was made out of the hours of labor at the arsenal and
during the time which was properly his own, and the thought and time
which he devoted to it were voluutar ily given, as a good and earnest servant
of the government, intent on rendering more effective the work and machinery of the arsenal With which he was connected, and the work of so devising a machine was not an obligation imposed upon him by the authorities
of the arsenal.
(4) The other inventions of the claimant, set forth in the liatents enumerated in finding I, except that of the heading machine, which was fabricated and used by the defendants under the supervision of the claimant,
were also brought to the attention of the various commanding officers by
suggestions from the claimant for making the means and appliances at the
arsenal more efficient than they were; and in like manner ,the cost of preparing patterns for the iron and steel castings and of preparing working

GILL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

From this decree the claimant appealed to this court.
.M". Hahert E. Painefor appellant.
-Mr'. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for appellees.
MR. JUsTIce. Browx, after stating the

case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case raises the question, which has been several times
presented to this court, whether an employ6 paid by salary or
wages, who devises an improved method of doing his work,.
using the property or labor of his employer t6 put his invention into practical form, and assenting to the use of such improvements by his employer, may, by taking out a patent
drawings and of constructing working machines was borne exclusively by
the government; but the claimant did not use any property of the defendants, or the services of any employ6 of the defendants, in making or developing or perfecting the inventions themselves. In each case one or more
machines, or articles of manufacture embodying the invention, had been
constructed and was in operation or use in the arsenal with the claimant's
knowledge and assent before -he filed an application for a patent.
(5) In 1867, when the claimant made his first inventiop described in the
patents hereinbefore enumerated, he was a machinist rated as a skilled laborer in the Frankford Arsenal, but acting and doing the duty of a master
armorer, on wages of $4 a day. From time to time his wages were advanced until they became, in 1881, $6 a day, and he was in 1881 appointed
master armorer, the duties of which are a general supervision of the shops.
This increase of pay and advancement of position came through and by
authority of the commanding officers of the arsenal, and the consideration
or reason therefor was that the claimant was a faithful, intelligent, and
capable employ6, whose services were of great value to the government.
It was never stipulated by any commanding officer, nor understood or
agreed to by the claimant, that the advanceof wages was to be a consideration for the use of his Inventions, though the practical ability of the claimant as an inventor, and the value of his inventions to the government, did
operate upon the minds of the officers in estimating the claimant's services
aiid ordering his advancement.
(6) The claimant has sold the right to use his inventions, reserving the
right to the government as set forth in finding VII, to various persons for
sums amounting in the aggregate to $5380. But the use of the inventions
by private manufacturers is not nearly so large as the use by the government, the inventions being specially adapted to military purposes and
appliances.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

upon such invention, recover a royalty or other compensation
for such use. In a series of cases, to which fuller reference
will be made hereafter, we have held that this could not be
done.
The principle is really an application or outgrowth of the
law of estoppel in pais, by which a person looking on and
assenting to that which he has power to prevent, is held to be
precluded ever afterwards from maintaining an action for
damages. A familiar instance is that of one who stands by,
while a sale is being made of property in which he has an interest, and makes no claim thereto, in which case he is held to
be estopped from setting up such claim. The same principle
is applied to an inventor who makes his discovery public,
looks on and permits others to use it without objection or
assertion of a claim for a royalty. In such case he is held to
abandon his inchoate right to the exclusive use of his invention, to which a patent would have entitled him, had it been
applied for before such use. As was said by Mr. Justice Story
in Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 16: "This inchoate right,
thus once gone, cannot afterwards be resumed at his pleasure,
for where gifts are once made to the public in this way they
become absolute." "It is possible," said the trial court, in
charging the jury, "that the inventor may not have intended
to give the benefit of his discovery to the public; and may
have supposed that by giving permission to a particular individual to construct for others the thing patented he could not
be presumed to have done so. But it is not a question of intention which is involved in the principle we have laid down, but
of legal inference, resulting from the conduct of the inventor,
land affecting the interests of the public. It is for the jury
to say whether the evidence brings this case within the principle which has been stated." This language was quoted with
approval in Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218. So, also, in Shaw
v. Cooper, 7 Pet. 292, 323, it was held directly that "whatever
may be the intention of the inventor, if he suffers his invention to go into public use, through any means whatsoever,
without the immediate assertion of his right, he is not entitled to a patent."

GILL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The application of this principle to a single individual whom
the patentee has permitted to make use of his invention without claiming compensation therefor, first arose in .Mcurgv.
Kingeand, 1 How. 202. Inthis case the patentee Harley was
employed by the defendants at their foundry upon weekly
wages. While so employed, he invented the patented improvements, making experiments in the defendants' foundry,
and wholly at their expense. The result proving useful, his
wages were increased. He continued in their employment,
during all of' which time he -made rollers for them, spbke
about procuring a patent, and finally made an application,
which was granted. He assignec the patent to the plaintiffs,
after the defendants had declined his proposition that they
should take out a patent, and'purchase his right. He made no
demand upon them for compensation for using his improvement, and gave them no notice not to use it, until a misunderstanding had arisen, when he left their employment, and made
an agreement with plaintiffs to assign his right to them. The
defendants continuing to i'make the rollers on his plan, thb action was brought by the plahitiffs, without any previous notice
by them. It was held that the facts above stated justified
the presumption of a license to use the invention, and that the
charge of the court, that the defendants might continue to use
it without liability to the plaintiffs, was correct.
In the case of Solomons v. United States, 137 U. S. 342, one
Clark, who was in the employ of the government as Chief of
the Bureau. of Engraving and Printing, conceived the idea of
a self-cancelling stamp, and prepared a die or plate therefor,
making use of the services of the employ~s of the Bureau and
the property of the government. While his application for
a patent was pending, he assigned his rights to the appellant Solomons, in payment of an account between them. On
taking out the p'atent, the appellant notified-the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue that he was the owner of the patent, and
demanded. compensation for the use of the stamp on whisky
barrels. It further appeared that Mr. Clark, as Chief of the
Bureau, had been assigned the duty of devising a stamp for
this purpose, and it was not understood or intimated that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

stamp which he was to devise should be patented, or become
his personal property. Indeed, before the final adoption of
the stamp, he said that the design was his own, but he should
make no charge to the government therefor, as he was employed on a salary by the government, and had used its
machinery and other property in the perfection of the stamp.
It was held that, having been employed and paid to devise a
new stamp, the invention, when accomplished, became the
property of the government, and that the patentee had practically sold in advance whatever he might be able to accomplish
in that direction.
A similar case was that of the Lane & Bodley Company v.
Locke, 150 U. S. 193, in which an engineer and draftsman at a
fixed salary, in the employ of the defendants, and using their
tools and patterns, invented a stop-valve, which the firm used
with his knowledge in certain elevators constructed by them
until its dissolution, and after that, a corporation organized by
the firm used it in the same way and with the like knowledge.
it was held that the patentee, having made no claim for
remuneration for the use of the patent, saying that he-did not
desire to disturb his friendly relations with the firm, might be
presumed to have recognized an obligation to permit them to
use the invention.
In McAleer v. United States, 150 U. S. 424, there was an
express license by an employ6 in the Treasury Department, to
such department and its bureaus, of a right to make and use
machines containing the improvements of the patentee to the
end ofthe patented term, and it was held that this agreement
could not be varied by parol evidence that it was to terminate
upon the discharge of the patentee from the employment of
the government.
Iii Keyes v. Eureka Mining Co., 158 U. S. 150, a person in
the employ of a smelting company invented a new method of
withdrawing molten metal from a furnace, took out a patent
for it, and permitted his employer to use it without charge
so long as he remained in its employ, which was about ten
years. It was held that there was at least an implied license
to use the improvement without payment of royalties during

GILL- v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the continuance of his employment, and also a license to use
the invention upon the same terms and royalties fixed for
other parties, from the time the patentee left the defendant's
employment.
An attempt is made to differentiate the case
under consideration from those above cited in the fact, stated in the
third finding, that the invention .in this case, until it was
reduced to paper, in the form of an intelligible drawing, was
made out of the hours of labor at the arsenaj, and during the
time which properly belonged to the patentee, and that, by
finding four, "the claimnnt did not use any property of the
defendants or the services of any of -the employ~s of the
defendants in making, or developing, or perfecting the inventions themselves." This, however, must be taken in connection
with the further finding that -" the cost of preparing patterns for the iron and steel castings, and of preparing working
drawings, and of constructing machines was borne exclusively
by the government," and that in each case, one or Imore
machines or articles of manufacture embodying the invention,
had been constructed and was in operation or use in the arsenal
with the claimant's knowledge and consent before he filed an
application for a patent. The inference to be deduced from ihe
findings is, in substance, that, while the claimant used neither
the property of the government, nor the services of its employ~s in conceiving, developing, or perfecting the inventions
themselves, the cost of preparing the patterns and 'working
drawings of the machines, as well as the cost of constructing
the machines themselves that were made in putting the inventions into practical use was borne by the government, the
work being also done under the immediate supervision of the
claimant.
There is an assumption by the claimant in this connection
that, if he did not make use of the time or property of the
government in conceiving and developing his' ideas, thd fact
is an important one as distinguishing this case from those
-above cited. In view of the finding that he did make use of
the property and labor of the government in preparing
patterns and working drawings and constructing his working
VoL. CLX-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

machines, the distinction is a very narrow one--too narrow
we think to create a difference in principle, or to prevent the
application of the rule announced in those cases. In Solomons case the finding was that, while employed as Chief of
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Clark conceived the
idea of a self-cancelling stamp, and under his direction the
employ~s of that bureau, using government property, prepared a die or plate, and put into being the conception of Mr.
Clark.
In every case, the idea conceived is the invention. Sometimes, as in the case of McClurg v. Zingsland, a series of
experiments is necessary to develop and perfect the invention.
At other times, as in the case under consideration, and apparently in the Solomons case, the invention may be reduced to
paper in the form of an intelligible drawing, when nothing
more is necessary than the preparing of patterns and working drawings, and the embodiment of the original idea in a
machine constructed accordingly. Now, whether the property
of the government and the services of its employts be used
in the experiments necessary to develop the invention, or -in
the preparation of patterns and working drawings, and the
construction of the completed machines, is of no importance.
We do not care, in this connection, to dwell upon the niceties
of the several definitions of the word "develop "1 as applied to
an invention. The material fact is that, in both this and the
Solomons case, the patentee made use of the labor and property of the government in putting his invention into the form
of an operative machine, and whether such. employment was
in the preliminary stage of elaborating and experimenting
upon the original idea, putting that idea into definite shape by
patterns or working drawings, or finally embodying it in a
.completed machine, is of no consequence. In neither case did
the patentee risk anything but the loss of his personal exertions in conceiving the invention. In both cases, there was
a question whether machines made after his idea would be
successful or not, and if such machines had proven to be impracticable, the loss would have fallen upon the government.
In this connection, too, it should .be borne in mind that the

GILL v. UNITEY STATES.

435

Opinion of the- Court.

act, upon which so much stress hias been laid by both sides,
that the patentee made use of the property and labor-of the
government in putting his conceptions into practical shape, is
important only as furnishing an item of evidence tending to
show that the patentee consented to and encouraged the government in making use of his devices. The ultimate fact to
be proved is the estoppel, arising from the consent given by
the patentee to the use of his inventions by the government,
without demand for compensation. The most conclusive evidence of such consent is an express agreement or license, such
as appeared in the .McAleer caee; but it may also be shown
by parol testimony, or by conduct on the part of the patentee
proving acquiescence on his part in the use of his invention.
The fact that he made use of the time and tools of his employer, put at his service for the purpose, raises either an inference that the work was done for the benefit of such employ eir,
or an implication of bad faith on the patentee's part in claiming the fruits of labor which technically he had no right to
enlist in his service.
There is no doubt whatever of the proposition laid down? in
olomons case, that the mere fact that a person is in the employ of the government does not preclude him from making
improvements in the machines with which he is connected,
and obtaining patents therefor, as his ,individual property,
and that in such case the government would have no more
right to seize upon and appropriate such property, than any
other proprietor would have. On the other hand, it is equally
clear that, if the patentee be employed to invent or devise
such improvements his patents obtained' therefor belong to
his employer, since in making such improvements he ismerely
doing what he was hired to do. Indeed, the olomons ,case
might have been decided wholly upon that ground, irrespective of the question of estoppel, since the finding was that
Clark had been assigned the duty of devising a stamp, and it
was understood by everybody that the scheme would proceed
upon the assumption that the best stamp which he could devise
would be adopted and made a part of the revised scheme. In
these consultations it was understood. that he was acting in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

his official capacity as Chief of the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing, but it was not understood or intimated that the
stamp he was to devise would be patented or become his per
sonal property. In fact, he was employed and paid to do the
very thing which he did, viz., to devise an improved stamp;
and, having been employed for that purpose, the fruits of his
inventive skill belonged as much to his employer as would
the fruits of his mechanical skill. So, if the inventions of a
patentee be made in the course of his employment, and he
knowingly assents to the use of such inventions by his employer, he cannot claim compensation therefor, especially if
his experiments have been conducted or his machines have
been made at the expense of such employer.
The following remarks of the court in the Solomon8 case
(page 346) are pertinent in .this connection: "So, also, when
one is in the employ of .another in a certain line of work, and
devises an improved method or instrument for doing that
work, and uses the property of his employer and the services
of other employes to develop and put in- practical form his invention, and expressly assents to the use by his employer of
such invention, a jury, or a court trying the facts, is warranted in finding that he has so far recognized the obligations
of service flowing from his employment and the benefits resulting from the use of the property and the assistance of the
coemploy~s of his employer, as to have given to such employer
an irrevocable license to use such invention."
The acquiescence of the claimant in this case in the use of
his invention by the government is fully shown by the fact
that he was in its employ; that the adoption of his inventions
by the commanding officer was procured at his suggestion;
that the patterns and working drawings were prepared at the
cost of the government; that the machines embodying his
inventions were also built at the expense of the government;
that he never brought his inventions before any agent of t06
government as the subject of purchase and -sale; that he
raised no objection to the use of his inventions by the government ; and that the commanding officer never undertook to
incur a legal or pecuniary obligation on the part of the gov-

GILL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ernment for the use of the inventions or the right to.manufacture thereunder. It further appeared that from time to
time his wages were advanced from four to six dollars a day,
and while it was never stipulated by the commanding officer,
or uuderstood by the claimant, that the advance of wages
was a consideration for the use of the inventions, the practical ability of the claimant as an inventor, and the value of
his inventions to the government, did operate on the minds
of the officers in estimating the claimant's services and ordering his advancement.
Clearly, a patentee has no right, either in law or morals, to
persuade or encourage officers of the government to adopt
his inventions, and look on while they are being made use of
year after year without objection or claim for compensation,
and then to set up a large demand, upon the ground that the
government had impliedly promised to pay for their use.
A patentee is bound to deal fairly with the government, and
if he has a claim against it, to make such claim known openly
and frankly, and not endeavor silently to raise up a demand
in his favor by entrapping its officers to make use of his
inventions. While no criticism is made of the claimant, who
was a simple mechanic, and, as found by the Court of Claims,
"a faithful, intelligent, and capable employ6, whose services
were of great value to the government," and whose conduct
was "fair, honest, and irreproachable," and while the -government appears to have profited largely by his inventive skill,
we are of opinion, for the reasons above stated, that the
appeal in his behalf should be addressed to the generosity
of the legislative, rather than to the justice of the judicial
department.
It may be added, in this connection, that the inventions
which the claimant suggested to the commanding officer to
adopt were mere undeveloped conceptions of his own, that had
never been embodied in a machine; that it was uncertain at
this time whether he could or would obtain patents for them.
If he did not obtain patents, their use was open to anybody.
Under such circumstances, it is impossible to say that an officer of the government, conceiving that he had full, authority

