OCTOBER TER,

1895.

Syllabus.

of 1888, c. 728, ยง 2, that such proceedings shall conform, "as
near as may be," to those "in the courts of record of the
*State," is not to be construed as creating an exception to the
general rule of trial by an ordinary jury in a court of record,
and as requiring, by way either of preliminary, or of substitute, a trial by a different jury, not in a court of record, norin the presence of any judge. Such a construction would unnecessarily and unwisely encumber the administration of justice in the courts of the United States. Indianapolis & St.
Louis R ailroadv. Horst, 93 U. S.291, 301; Southern Pac'cio
Co. v. .Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 209; _Mexican Central Railway
v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, 206, 207. This plaintiff in error
had the benefit of a trial by an ordinary jury at the bar of the
District Court on the question of the damages sustained by
him; and he was not entitled to a second trial by jury, except
at the discretion of that court, or upon a reversal of its judgment for error in law.
To prevent any possible misconception, it is fit to observe
that this case concerns only the taking by the United States,
on making compensation to the owner, of an interest in fast
land above high water mark; and does not touch the question,
argued but not decided in two recent cases, of the right of the
United States to take, without compensation, for the purpose
of a light-house, land under tide waters. Hill v. United States,
149 U. S. 593; Chappell v. Waterworth, 155. U. S.102.
Judgment a2fmed.
-

JACKSONVILLE, MAYPORT, PABLO RAILWAY
AND NAYIGATION COMPANY v. HOOPER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCeUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORMlA.
No. 80. Submitted November 21,1895.-Decided January 18, 1896.

Whether an instrument is under seal or not is a question for the court
upon inspection; but whether a mark or character shall be held to be a
seal, depends upon the intention of the executant, as shown by the paper.
When no legislative prohibition is shown, it is within the chartered powers

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Statement of the Case.
of a railroad company to lease and maintain a summer hotel at its seaside terminus, and such power is conferred on railroads ini Florida.
The authority of the president of such company to execute in the name of
the company a lease to acquire such hotel may be inferred from the facts
of his signing, sealing, and delivering the instrument, and of the company's entering into possession under the lease and exercising acts of
ownership and control over the demised premises, even if the minutes
of the company fail to disclose such authority expressly given.
The court adheres to the rule laid down in Central Transportation Oo. v.
.Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, that a contract of a corporation which
is ultra vires in the proper sense is not voidable only,. but wholly void
and of no legal effect; but it further holds that a corporation may also
enter into and engage in transactions which are incidental or auxiliay
to its main business, which may become necessary, expedient, or profitable in the care and management of the property which it is authorized
to hold, under the act by which it is created.
Impossibility of performing a contract, arising after the making of it, although without any fault on the part of the covenantor, does not discharge him from his liability under it.
A lessee of a building who contracts in his lease to keep the leased building insured for the benefit of the lessor during the term at an agreed
sum, and fails to do so, is liable to the lessor for that amount, if the
building is destrbyed by fire during the term.
There is no error in an instruction to the jury, where the evidence is conflicting, that in coming to a conclusion they should consider the testimony in the light of their own experience- and knowledge.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern

District of Florida, on the 4th day of December, 1889, Mary
J. Hooper, Henry H. Hooper, her husband, and William F.
Porter, for the use of said Mary 5. Hlooper, citizens of the
State of Ohio, brought an action against -the Jacksonville,

Mayport, Pablo Railway and Navigation Company, a corporation of the State of Florida. The plaintiffs' amended declaration set up causes of action arising out of the covenants
contained in.a certain indenture of lease between the parties.
This lease, dated July 10, 1888, purported to grant, for a term
of two years, certain lots of land situated at a place called
"Burnside," in ,Duval County, Florida, whereon was erected
a hotel known as the "San- Diego Hotel.". In consideration
of this grant the railroad company agreed to pay in monthly

instalments a yearly rent of $500, and to keep the premises
insured in the sum of $6000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It was alleged that on November 28, 1889, during said
term, and while the railway company was in possession, the
hotel and other buildings were wholly destroyed by fire ; that
the defendant had failed and neglected to have the same
insured, and that there was an arrearage of rent due amounting to the sum ot $106.67. For the amount of the loss occasioned by the absence of insurance and for the back rent the
action was brought.
The defendant denied that the railway company had duly
executed the instrument sued on; denied that Alexander
Wallace, the president of the company, and who had executed
the lease as such president, had any authority from the company so to do. The defendant also alleged that such a lease,
even if formally executed, was ulra vires; also that the covenant to insure was an impossible covenant, as shown by
ineffectual efforts to secure such insurance.
The case was tried in April, 1891, and resulted in a verdict
and judgment against the defendants in the sum of $6798.70.
On errors assigned to certain rulings of the court and in the
charge to the jury the case was brought to this court.
Mr. J 0. Cooper for plaintiff in error.
.Atr. Tame8 A?. Chalen for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE SHns, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the Court.
The nineteen assignments of error may be classified as
follows: Those which raise questions as to the sufficiency of
tile proof of the due execution by the defendant of the contract sued on; those which deny the competency of the railroad company to enter intb such a contract; those which deal
with the question whether the defendant was relieved from
liability on its covenant to insure by reason of alleged impossibility to comply therewith; finally, those alleging error in
the admission of evidence, and in certain portions of the
charge - particularly in respect to the measure of damages.

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court

We shall disctiss these alleged errors in the order thus mentioned.
The declaration was in covenant, and contained, as an attached exhibit, what was alleged to be a certified copy of
the contract sued on, the final clause whereof was as follows:
"In witness whereof the.parties hereto have hereunto set
their hands and seals this the day and year above written.
"JACKSONVILLE, MAYPORT,

PABLO RAILWAY

AND NAviGATION ComPxwi,

"By ALEX. WALLA
"Wm. F. PoRTE.,

E,

[Seal.]

President.
[Seal.]

"By H. H. HOOPER, JR., Att'y in fact.
"H. H. HooPER.
[Seal.]
[Seal.]"
"Mimy J. HoOPER.

The attesting clause was as follows:
"Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of us.
"H. H. BuRRmAN,
"[. H. BowNE,
As to . R. o.o.,H . Cooper,
and . F. Porter.
"JOHN 'MULHOLLAND,

"S'L

- E.

DuFr,
As to Mary J. Hoover."

The defendant demurred on several grounds, one of which
was as follows:
." That attached to the said declaration is a paper purporting to be the contract which is the basis of this suit, which
paper is alleged 'to be a lease between the defendant company
and the plaintiffs, and which paper is referred to in each and
every count of said declaration, and asked and prayed and
made a part of said declaration; that each and every count
of same declares in covenant, and yet the same contains on, the
face thereof and the face of the paper made part thereof that
the said cause of action will not lie because the said paper is

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

not under seal; that there is no seal of the defendant company to said paper."
The theory of this demurrer appears to be that there should
have been an averment on the face of the instrument that the
seal attached, on behalf the company, was its common or corporate seal. However, there was an averment that the parties
had set their hands and seals to the paper, and the attesting
clause alleged that the railroad company had signed, sealed,
and delivered in the presence of two witnesses, who signed
their names thereto. On demurrer this was plainly sufficient.
But it is urged in the third and fourth assignments that it
was error to permit to be put in evidence the certified copy
of the lease, as likewise the duplicate lease, because they were
not shown to be under the seal of the company, but appeared
to be under the private seal of Alexander Wallace, the president of the company. But, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary,- the scroll or rectangle containing the word "seal"
will be deemed to be the proper and common seal of the company. A seal is not necessarily of any particular form or
figure.
In Pillow v. Boberts, 13 How. 472, 474, this court said,
through Mr. Justice 'Grier, when discussing an objection that an
instrument read was improperly admitted in evidence because
the seal of the Circuit Court authenticating the acknowledgment
was an impression stamped on paper and not "on wax, wafer,
or any other adhesive or tenacious substance," said: "It is
the seal which authenticates, and not the substance on which
it is impressed; and where the court can recognize its identity,
they should not be called upon to analyze the material which
exhibits it. In Arkansas the presence of wax is not necessary
to give validity to a seal; and the fact that the public officer
in Wisconsin had not thought proper to use it, was sufficient
to raise the presumption that such was the law or custom in
Wisconsin, till the contrary was proved. It is time that such
objections to the validity of seals should cease. The court did
not err in overruling the objections to the deed offered by the
plaintiff." Price v. Indseth, 106 U. S. 546, is to the same
effect.

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

Whether an instrument is under seal or not is a question for
the court upon inspection; whether a mark or character shall
be held to be a seal depends upon the intention of the execurant, as shown by the paper. Backer's A peal, 121 Penn. St.
192; Pillow v. Reoerr,,ub. supra.
The defendant did not produce the original in order that it
might be compared in the particular objected to with the copy
and duplicate offered. The defendant's attorney, Mr. Buckman, was called, and testified that he was one of the attesting
witnesses to the instrument offered, and that he, as a notary
public, took the acknowledgment thereto of Alexander Wallace, that he executed the same for and in behalf of the company, and that the said iease was the act and deed of the
defendant company for the uses and purposes therein expressed.
Whether, therefore, the instrument put in evidence was
merely a copy; in, which event it would not be expected that
a wax or stamped seal of the -company would appear upon it,
but merely -a scroll, representing the original seal, or whether
the so-called copy was really the original paper, as certified
by one of defendant's witnesses, would not, in our opinion, be
material. The presumption would be, if the paper were a
copy, that the original was duly sealed, or, if it were the
original, that the scroll was adopted and used by the company as its seal, for the-purpose of executing the contract in
question.
As respects those portions of-the 6bjections that raised the
question as to the authority of .tie president to execute the
contract in question, there was, besides the presumption that
would arise out of the signing, sealing, and delivering, of the
instrument, evidence that the company exercised acts of ownership and control over the demised premises, took charge of
them by their superintendent, took an inventory of the property, rented the hotel portion to a, third party, received money
rent therefor, gave a receipt therefor under the seal, of 'the
company, opened a hotel account on their cash book, which
showed receipts of rent from the tenant, and expenditures for
moving the hotel .and for making improvements therein, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

there was evidence adduced by the defendant itself of efforts
to get the property insured in pursuance of their contract.
An exception was taken by the defendant to the action of
the court in permitting Mrs. Roberts, the company's tenant,
to testify to statements made to her by Alexander Wallace,
the president of the company, the ground of objection being
that Wallace was dead at the time of the trial. Statements
made by the president, if relevant to the controversy, would
be competent to affect the company, even if he were dead at
the time of the trial. In the present case, it was relevant to
show that the witness, when about to rent the hotel, was told
by the president to go to Mr. Warriner, the secretary of the
company, to whom she paid one month's rent, and who gave
her a receipt therefor, with the corporate seal attached. The
witness was not a party to nor interested in the suit, nor was
the president or his executor or administrator. The admissions made by the president, subsequently, in a casual conversation, as to his ineffectual efforts to get the hotel insured,
could scarcely be regarded as relevant and competent to affect
the company. But the error, if such it were, in permitting
such statements to be received, was 'rendered immaterial by
the action of the company, in adducing affirmative evidence,
in its own behalf, to the very same effect, namely, the efforts
made by the company and its officers to procure insurance.
Complaint is made of the action of the court in rejecting
the offer of the defendant's by-laws for the purpose of showing
want of authority to make the lease sued on without the consent of the stockholders or board of directors, and the accompanying offer of the minutes, which did not disclose that any
such authority had been granted.
In considering what weight should be given to the error
assigned to the rejection of the by-laws, we have a right to
advert to the copy of them contained in the bill of exceptions.
There we learn that the powers conferred upon the president
were in the following terms:
"The president shall preside aT, all meetings of the board of
directors and of the company (of which he shall be president),
and shall have the general management and supervision of the

JACKSONVILIE &o. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

operation of the lines of road of said company and the general
business thereof; subject, however, at all times to the control
of the board of directors. He shall, when so directed and empowered by the board of directors, execute and sign for and
on behalf of said company all documents and writings authorized to be made and executed for and on its behalf. He shall
draw and issue all warrants for the payment of moneys on the
treasurer of said company when so ordered by the board, and
sign the sane. He shall make an annual report to said company of the condition thereof, with such suggestions and
recommendations as he may deem proper, and to said .board
of directors whenever required by them; and shall do and
perform such other duties as are, consistent with said office,
and others of a like nature pertaining thereto."
This by-law appears to describe the powers and duties
usually possessed by presidents of railroad companies, and
we are, therefore, relieved from considering what would have
been the effect of an unusual restriction on the powers of
such an officer, and whether those dealing with a railroad
company would be obliged to take notice of such unusual restriction.
The question, therefore, we have to consider is whether the
admission in evidence of the by-law would have affected the
result reached by the court and jury in the case.
Assuming, for the present purposes of the discussion, that
the subject-matter of the contract in question was within the
legitimate scope of the company's- powers, we think the facts
and circumstances shown by the evidence disclose a case in
which the company would be bound, notwithstanding there
was no proof that the president -was expressly authorized to
make the contract by a previous resolution of the board. The
evidence was undisputed that, after the execution of the lease,
the company took possession of the demised premises, rented
to a third party the hotel portion thereof, and received and
receipted for rent of the hotel.
The case, in this particular, resembles and falls within the
principle of Eureka Co. v. Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488 491, where
the binding force of a contract was denied for alleged want of

OOTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

authority of an agent to make the same, and this court, through
Mr. Justice Miller, held:
"We are satisfied that the agreements set up in the bill are
the valid contracts of the defendant. Though the plaintiff
was unable to produce any resolution or order in writing by
the trustees or board of directors of the defendant corporation,
and though the seal used was the private seal of one of its
officers, instead of the corporate seal, neither of these is essential to the validity of the contract. We entertain no doubt.
that Riudge, the agent and one of the directors and treasurer
of the Eureka company, was authorized to execute the agreement, and, if any doubt existed on that point, the report and
payment for five hundred machines, the first month's use of
the patent under the agreement, would remove the doubt. If
it did not, it would very clearly amount to a ratificatiom"
In Bank of the United States Y. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 04,
83, it was held that where a cashier was appointed, and permitted to act in his office, for a long time, under the sanction of
the directors, it was not necessary that his official bond should
be accepted as satisfactory by the directors, according to the
terms of the charter, in order to enable him to enter legally
on the duties of his office, or to make his sureties responsible
for the nonperformance of their duties; that the charter and the
by-laws are to be considered, in this respect, as directory to
the board, and not as conditions precedent; and Mr. Justice
Story, in discussing the subject, said: "A board may accept a
contract, or approve a security, by a vote, or by a tacit and
implied assent. The'vote or assent may be more difficult of
proof by parol evidence than if reduced in writing. But this
is, surely, not a sufficient reason for declaring that the vote or
assent is inoperative."
See also Pittsburgh & Cincinnati
Railway v .Heokuk & Hamilton -BridgeCo., 131 U. S. 371, 138.
As, then, the contract in question was, upon our present
assumption, within the legitimate scope of the powers of the
company, was executed by that officer of the company who
by the by-laws was the proper agent to perform such function,
and as the company went into possession of and received
the rents and profits of the hotel, we conclude that the com-

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

pany was bound thereby, even if the minutes of the company fail to disclose authority expressly given to the president
to execute the contract.
It is, however, further claimed that the contract sued on
was not within the legitimate powers of the company.
This is not a case in which, either by its charter, or by some
statute binding upon it, the company is forbidden to make
such a contract. Indeed, the public.laws of Florida, referring
to the powers pf railroad companies, provide that every such
corporation shall be empowered "to purchase, hold, and use
all such real estate and other property as may be necessary for
the construction and maintenance ,of its road and canal and
the stations and other accommodations necessary to accomplish the objects of its incorporation, aid to sell, lease,.or buy
any land or real estate not necessary for its use." McClell.
Digest of the Laws of Florida, p. 276, sec. 10. They ,are
likewise authorized "to erect and maintain all convenient
buildings, wharves, docks, stations, fixtures, and machinery
for the accommodation, and use of their passengers and
freight business."
Although the contract power of railroad companies is to
b "deemed restricted .to the general purposes for which they
ate designed, yet there are many transactions which are incidehtal or auxiliary to its main business, or which may become
useful in the care and management of the property which it is
authorized to hold, and in the safety and comfort of the passenge.rs whom it is its duty to transport.
Courts may be permitted, where there is no legislative prohibition shown, to put a favorable construction upon such
exercise of power by a railroad company as is suitable to promote the success of the company, within its chartered powers,
and to contribute to the comfort of those who travel thereon.
To lease and maintain a summer hotel at the seaside terminus
of a railroad might obviously increase the business of the company and the comfort of its passengers, and be within the provisions of the statute of Florida above cited, whereby a railroad
company is authorized "to sell, lease, or. buy' any land or real
estate not necessary for its use," and to "erect and maintain all

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

convenient buildings

.

.

for the accommodation and

use of their passengers."
Courts may well be astute in dealing with efforts of corporations to usurp powers not granted them, or to stretch
their lawful franchises against the interests of the public.
Nor would we be understood to hold that, in a clear case of
the exercise o.f a power forbidden by its charter, or contrary
to public policy, a railroad company would be estopped to decline to be bound by its own act, even when fulfilled by the
other contracting party. -Davisv. Old Colony Railroad Co.,
131 Mass. 258; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Central
Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 21. So,
too, it must be regarded as well settled, on the soundest principles of public policy, that a contract, by which a railroad
company seeks to render itself incapable of performing its
duties to the public, or attempts to absolve itself from its obligation without the consent of the State, is void and cannot
be rendered enforceable by the doctrines of estoppel. The
.Yew York & .MarylandRailroad Co. v. Winans, 17 How. 30;
Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Central Transportation
Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 247.
We do not seek to relax but rather to affirm the rule laid
down by this court, in Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman's
Car Company, (above cited,) that "a contract of a corporation, which is ultra wires, in the proper sense, that is to say,
outside the object of its creation as defined in the law of its
organization, and, therefore, beyond the powers conferred
upon it by the legislature, is not voidable only, but whollyvoid, and of no legal effect- the objection to the contract
is not merely that the corporation ought not to have made it,
but that it could not make it. Such a contract cannot be
ratified by either party, because it could not have been authorized by either. No performance on either side can give the
unlawful contract -any validity, or be the foundation of any
right of action upon it." 139 U. S. 59, 60.
But we think the present case falls within the language of
Lord Chancellor Selborne, in Attorney Generalv. Great Eat,
ern Railwa/, 5 App. Cas. 473, 478, where, while declaring

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY'v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

his sense of the importance of the doctrine of ultra virm, he
said: "This doctrine ought to be reasonably, and not unreasonably, understood and applied, and that whatever may
fairly be regarded as incidental to, or consequential upon,
those things which the legislature has authorized, ought not,
unless expressly prohibited, to be held, by judicial construction, to be ultra vires." In the application of. the doctrine
the court must be influenced somewhat by the special circumstances of the case. As was said by Romilly, MI.R., in -Lyd
v. Eastern Beizgal Raiway, 86 Beav. 10, where was in question the validity of a contract by a railway company to work
a coal mine: "The answer to -this argument appears to me
to depend upon the facts of each particular case. If, in truth,
the real object of the colliery was to supply the railway with
cheaper coals, it would be 'proper to allow the accidental
additional profit of selling coal to bthers; but if the principal
object of the colliery was to undertake the business of raising
and selling coals, then it would be a perversion of the funds
of the company, and a scheme which ought not to be permitted, however profitable it might appear to be. The prohibition or permission to carry on this trade would depend
on the conclusions which the court drew from the evidence."
The principle upon *hich we may safely rule the present
question is within the case of Brown.v. Winnisimmet Company,
11 Allen, 326, 883. There a contract, made by the treasurer
of a ferry company, to lease one of the company's boats for
a certain money consideration, was alleged, to be void for
want -of antecedent authority giVen by the company to the
treasurer, and also because such a contract was not made in
the legitimate exercise of the company's powers. On the
firdt point it was ruled that, from evidence showing ratification by the company, it was proper for the jury to infer that
the treasurer had been duly authorized to make the contract,
and, disposing of the second question, the court, through
Chief Justice Big~low, said: "We know of no rule or principle
by 'which an act, creating a corporation for certain specific
objects, or to carry on a particular trade or business, is to be
strictly construed as prohibitory of all other dealings or trans-

OCTOBER TERMTV-,
1895.
Opinion of the Court.

actions not coming within the exact scope of those designated. Undoubtedly the main business of a corporation is to
be confined to that class of operations which properly appertain to the general purposes for which its charter was granted.
But it .may also enter into and engage in transactions which
are incidental or auxiliary to itg main business, which may
become necessary, expedient, or profitable in the care and
management of the property which it is authorized to hold
under the act by which it was created." See also Davis v.
Old Colony Railroad,131 Mass. 258, 272.
The contract between the parties hereto was for leasing
a hotel at the terminus of the railroad, situated at a beach,
distant from any town. If not fairly within the authority
granted by the statute of Florida "to erect and maintain all
convenient buildings

.

.

.

for the accommodation and use

of their passengers," it certainly cannot be said to have been
forbidden by such laws. Nor can it be said to have been, in
its nature, contrary to. public policy.
To maintain cheap hotels or eating houses, at stated points
on a long line of railroad through a wilderness, as in the case
of the Pacific railroads, or at the end of a railroad on a barren,
unsettled beach, as in the present case, not for the purpose of
making money out of such business, but to furnish reasonable
and necessary accommodations to its passengers and employ~s,
would not be so plainly an act outside of the powers of a railroad company as to compel a court to sustain the defence of
ultra vires, as against the other party to such a contract.
But even if the railroad company might be answerable for
the tent of the premises, it is contended that the covenant to
procure insurance was so far outside of the company's powers
as not to be enforceable.
No one could deny that itwould not be competent for a railroad company, without the authority of the legislature, to
carry on an insurance business. But this covenant to keep the
premises insured is correlative to the obligation of the lessors
to rebuild in case the hotel should be destroyed by fire, and to
the provision that, in such an event, the rents should cease
until the hotel should be put in habitable condition and repair

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

by the lessors. Such mutual covenants. are quite usual in
leases of, this kind, and are merely incidental to the principal
purpose of the contract.
Suppose the contract proven and the defence of Ultra vires
deemed inadmissible, it is claimed by the railroad company
that it is not liable in damages for its failure to procure the insurance, because it was unable to. get the insurance; that its
contract, in that particular, was impossible of performance.
There is such a defence known to the law as an impossibility
of performance. Instances of such a defence are found in
cases where the subject-matter of the contract had ceased to
exist, as where there was a contract of sale of a cargo of grain
supposed by the parties to be on its voyage to England, but
which, having become heated on the voyage, had been unloaded and sold, and where it was held that the contract was
void, inasmuch "as it plainly imputed that there was somi
thing which was to be sold and purchased at the time of the
contract," whereas the object of the sale had ceased to exist.
Courtrierv. Hfastle, .5 H. L. Cas. 673; Allen v. Hamond,11
Pet. 63.
So, also, where a person purchased an annuity which,.at the
time of the purchase, had ceased to exist owing to the death
of the annuitant, it was held that he could recover the price
which he had paid for it. Strickland v. Turner, 7 Exch. 208.
So where there is obvious physical impossibility, or legal
impossibility, which is apparent on the face of the. contract, the
latter is void.
But the present case does not fall within either of these
classes, but is a case of impossibility of performance arising
subsequently to the making of the contract.
Here, the general rule is that such impossibility, even though
it arises without any fault on the part of the covenantor, does
not discharge him from his liability under the contract. "The
principle deducible from the authorities is that if what is
agreed to be done is possible and lawful, it must be done.
Difficulty or improbability of accomplishing the undertaking
will not avail the defendant. It must be shown that the
thing cannot by any means be effected. Nothing short of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

will excuse performance. The answer to the objection of
hardship in all such cases is that it might have been guarded
against by a proper stipulation. It is in the province of courts
to enforce contracts - not to make or modify them. When
there is neither fraud, accident, nor mistake, the exercise of
dispensing power is not a judicial function." The Harriman,
9 Wall. 161, 172. Impossible conditions cannot be performed;
and if a person contracts to do what at the time is absolutely
impossible, the contract will not bind him, because no man can
be obliged to perform an impossibility. But where the contract is to do a thing which is possible in itself, the performance is not excused by the occurrence of an inevitable accident,
or other contingency, although it was not foreseen by the
party, nor. within his control." . Jones v. United States, 96
U. S. 21, 29.
It appears that there was some evidence to the effect that,
prior to the making of the lease, the owners of the hotel had
some conversation with one or more insurance agents, who refused to insure the hotel building, and upon this evidence the
defendant asked the court to charge the jury that if the plaintiffs knew that the property, at the time of the making of the
contract, was not insurable, or, if knowing that they had tried
to get insurance and failed, they did not so notify the defendant, then the plaintiffs acted in bad faith, and should not be
permitted to recover. The court refused to so charge and very
properly. The evidence disclosed by the record, even if believed by the jury, would not have justified a verdict that the
plaintiffs acted in bad faith. It is not shown that they made
any false representations on the subject, and the very fact that
they demanded a covenant to procure insurance from the defendant put the latter on inquiry as to its ability to procure it.
Error is alleged in the refusal of the court to charge that
"if the jury believed from the evidence that insurance on the
property in question was sought to be obtained at the usual
places where such insurance would be applied for, and such
agencies applied to, representing companies insuring property
in all parts of the United States, refused to insure the property,
on the ground that such property was not insurable, and in-

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

surance companies would not insure such classes of property,
then the agreement to insure was impossible of performance,
and plaintiffs could not recover."-We are not furnished in this record, by any bill of exceptions or by a certificate of the judge, with all the evidence on
which this request to charge was based, but assuming that the
evidence contained in the bill of exceptions was all that there
was, it would have been error in the court to have given the
instruction prayed for. That evidence is very far from disclosing the state of facts. assumed in the request. Two or
three insurance agents, resident in the city of Jacksonville,
testified that on one or two occasions, whose dates they could
not fix, there had been inquiries made by some one'representing the defendant about insurance. Giving the utmost effect
to the testimony, it altogether failed to show such a case of
impossibility as would, under the authorities, have discharged
the defendant from the obligation of its contract; and we
think the court would not .have erred in so charging the jury.
However, the court left the questioft as one of fact to the
jury, and we perceive no misdirection in *hisremarks.
It remains to consider the question of the measure of
damages and some objections made to the charge of the court
on that subject.
If the defendant subjected itself, by a valid contract, to
keep the premises insured in the sum of six thousand dollars
during the term of the lease, and, without sufficient cause,
failed to do so, and if. the hotel was worth the sum mentioned,
and was wholly destroyed by fire, the extent of the defendant's liability would obviously be the amount of the plaintiffs'
damages, namely, six thousand dollars.
It is argued that the defendant received no consideration
for agreeing to insure the property; that itcontracted to pay
the costs of insurance as part of the rental, and the cost of the
premium of insurance was the proper measure of recovery.
'The obligation of the lessors to rebuild and repair in case of
fire, and the suspension of the rent so 16ng as the premises
remained uninhabitable, formed the consideration of the defendant's agreement to insure; and we cannot accept the
VOL. CLXZ--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

proposition that the plaintiffs' damages arising out of the
breach of the contract are to be measured by what it would
have cost the defendant to secure the stipulated insurance.
Complaint is made of the observations made by the judge
when instructing the jury as to the weight which they should
give to the testimony in relation to the value of the property.
The testimony was somewhat conflicting, and the remark
chiefly criticised was to the effect that, in coming to a conclusion, the jury should consider the testimony in the light of
their own experience and knowledge. We do not regard such
a caution as objectionable.
In deciding disputes between litigant parties, where witnesses are naturally apt to state facts strongly in favor of their
respective principals, the jury well may, and, in fact, must, use
their own knowledge and experience in the ordinary affairs of
life to enable them to see where is the truth. This is partiedlarly true where, as in the present case, the conflict was in
matter of opinioii as to the value of a building no longer in
existence.
The plaintiffs conceded that all the rent had been paid except $106.67, which in the declaration was demanded. The
defendant gave no evidence on the subject, and in such a state
of the record and of the evidence we think no error was committed by the court in charging the jury that they could find
for the plaintiffs the amount of rent demanded unless the defendant showed that it had been paid.
These views cover all the assignments of error which we
deem worthy of notice, and the judgment of the court below is
Affimed.

