WHITTEN v. TOMIINSON. Syllabus.

have jurisdiction concurrently with the courts of the several
States. The only existing act of Congress, which enables it to
be brought in the Circuit Court of the United States, is the
act of 1888. The suit comes within the terms of that act,
both as arising under a law of the United States, and as
being between citizens of differeni States. In either aspect,
by the provisions of the same act, the defendant cannot be
compelled to answer in a district of which neither the defendant nor the plaintiff is an inhabitant. The objection, having
been seasonably taken -by the defendait corporation, appearing specially for the purpose, was rightly sustained by the
Circuit Court.
Whether the provision in section 7 of the Trade-Mark Act
of 1881, that the courts of the United States should have original jurisdiction in such cases, without regard to the amount
in controversy, would control the pecuniary limit of jurisdiction in the subsequent act of 1888, as in the prior act of 1815,
of which that act was an amendment, it is unnecessary to
consider, because this bill distinctly alleges that the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value of $2000.
Wt qj
of mandamus dnied.

WHITTEN v. TOMLINSON.
APPEAL FEom THE oCIEurr couRT

OF THE uNITED STATES Fo

THE DISTRICT OF CONE0TIOUT.
No. 619.

Argued November 20, 1895. -Decided

December 16,1895.

Under section 753 of the Revised Statutes, the courts of the United States
have power to grant writs of habeas woipus for the purpose of inquiring
into the cause df restraint of liberty of any person in jail, In custody
under the authority of a State, in violation of the Constitution, or of
a law or treaty of the United States; but, except in cases of peculiar
urgency, will not discharge the prisoner in advance of a final determination of his case in the courts of the State; and, even after such final

OCTOBER TER19, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
determination in those courts, will generally leave the petitioner to his
remedy by writ of error from this court.
In a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, verified by oath, as required by
Rev. Stat. § 754, only distinct and *unambiguous allegations of fact, not
denied by the return, nor controlled by other evidence, can be assumed
to be admitted.
A warrant of extradition of the Governor of a State, issued upon the requisition of the Governor of another State, accompanied' by a copy of an
indictment, isprimafacie -evidence, at least, that the accused had been
indicted and was a fugitive from justice; and, when the court in which
the indictment was found had jurisdiction of the offence, is sufficient to
make it the duty of the courts of the United States to decline interposition by writ of habeas corpus,and to leave the question of the lawfulness
of the detention of the prisoner, in the State in which he wAs indicted,
to be inquired into and determined, in the first instance, by the courts of
the State.
A prisoner in custody under authority of a State will not be discharged
by a court of the United States by writ of habeas corus, because an
indictment against him lacked the words "a true bill," or was found by
the grand jury by mistake or misconception; or because a mittimus issued
by a justice of the peace, under a statute of the State, upon. application
of a surety on a recognizance, and affidavit that the principal intended
to abscond, does not conform to that statute.

Tnis was a petition, filed March 26, 1895, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut,
and addressed to the Honorable William K. Townsend, the
District Judge, as a judge of the Circuit Court, for a writ of
habeas compus to the sheriff of the county of New Haven in
the State of Connecticut. The petition was signed by the
petitioner, and verified by his oath, and was as follows.:
"The petition of George E. Whitten respectfully shows to
your honor that he is now a prisoner confined in the custody
of.Charles A. Tomlinson, sheriff of the county of New Haven,
in the county jail in the city of New Haven in said county,
for a supposed criminal offence, to wit, a crime of murder in
the second degree.
"Your petitioner also shows that such confinement is by
virtue of a warrant, a copy whereof is in the possession of said
sheriff; and your petitioner avers that, to the best of his

knowledge, he is not -committed or detained by virtue of any
process of law known to the courts of the United States or

WHITTEN v. TOMLU SON.
Statement of the Case.

the several States, but he is now detained in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, in violation of the laws of
the United States, and in violation of the constitution and
laws of the State of Connecticut ; and that he is not held in
confinement by virtue of any final judgment or decree of any
competent court or tribunal of criminal jurisdiction, or by
virtue -of any process issued upon such judgment or decree,
but is held without due process of law.
"And your petitioner further says that at the time of his
arrest, and for a long time prior thereto, he was a citizen of
assachusetts, and was extradited from Massachusetts for said
alleged crime in January, 1895; and he says that he is advised
by his counsel, William H. Baker, residing at Boston, and so
believes, that his said imprisonment is illegal, and that said
illegality consisted in this, to wit:
" That in August and September, 1893, this petitioner was
tried before the local court sitting within and for the county
of New Haven, State of Connecticut, upon a charge of murder
in the second degree, being the same alleged charge for which
he was extradited, and was after a full hearing thereof discharged from said court.
"That thereafterwards this petitioner remained in the city
of New Haven, State of Connecticut. for a long time - during
at least two sessions of the grand jury - and then remo'ved to
Newton in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, some time
early in the year 1894.
"That he was in January, 1895, while such citizen of Massachusetts, arrested and extradited from the State of Massachusetts upon a warrant issued by the Governor of Massachusetts, on
demand and application of the Governor of Connecticut; alleging that an indictment had been found by the grand jury against
him of murder within and for the county of New Haven, being
the same charge on which he was tried as above. This petitioner was taken to the said city of New Haven. by virtue
thereof.
"This petitioner avers that no indictment was ever
found
against him by any grand jury sitting at any time within the
State of Connecticut, nor no indictment as and for atrue bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.,
Statement of the Case.

ever was presented by any grand jury in said State of Connecticut against him, which he is ready to verify and prove,
and any pretended indictment was found by mistake or misconception and was not their true verdict or finding.
"Further, your petitioner says that he was not, at the time
of this extradition as aforesaid, a fugitive from justice from
said State of Connecticut.
"Wherefore your petitioner prays a writ of habeas corpus,
to the end that he may be discharged from custody, and be
allowed to depart safely from out the State of Connecticut to
the Commonwealth of M assachusetts, without interference in
any way by the state authorities of the State of Connecticut,
without reference to said charge made against him."
On March 27, a writ of habeas corpus was issued accordingly
by the District Judge, returnable forthwith at a special term
of the Circuit Court.
On March 28, the sheriff made his return to the writ, stating, as the cause of the petitioner's detention and imprisonment, that he was committed to the jail by virtue of the
following mittimus:
"To the Sheriff of New Haven County, his deputy, or any
proper officer or indifferent person, Greeting.:
"Whereas Lucius B. Hinman, of New Haven, Conn., did
on the 17th day of January, 1895, enter into a recognizance
in the sum of five thousand dollars for the appearance of
George E. Whitten, of the town of Newton, State of Massachusetts, before the Superior Court to be holden at New
Haven within and for the county of New Haven on the first
Tuesday of January, 1895, and the said Lucius B. Hinman
now believes that said George E. Whitten intends to abscond,
and having produced the evidence that he is surety as aforesaid for the said George E. Whitten, and hath applied to me
for a mittimus, and hath made oath before me that the statements in his said application are true:
"These are; therefore, by authority of the State of Connecticut, to command you that you forthwith arrest the said George
E. Whitten, and him commit to the jail of said New Haven

WHITTEN v. TOMIINSON.
Statement of the Case.

County; and the keeper of said jail is hereby ordered to
receive the said George E. Whitten, and him safely keep
within said jail until he be discharged by due order of law.
Hereof fail not, but due service and return make.
"Dated at New Haven this 26th day of March, A.D. 1895.
"JoH S. FOWLER, Justice of the Peace."
The petitioner moved to qpua'sh the return, as insufficient to
justify his detention.
The Circuit Court, upon a hearing, denied the motion, and
,discharged. the writ of habeas coryius, without prejudice to
the right of the petitioner to renew the motion; and filed an
opinion by the District Judge (67 Fed. Rep. 230) in which the
grounds of decision were stated as follows:
"The writ was issued; and the sheriff brought the petitioner into. this court, and made return, as to the cause
of his detention and imprisonment, that he was committed
to jail by virtue of a mittimus, in the form provided for by
statute, duly issued .by a justice of the peace on the application of the .bondsman, upon oath, that the petitioner intended to abscond. A hearing was had upon. a motion to
quash the return."
"The petitioner was arrested in Massachusetts, and brought
into this State under a warrant issued by the Governor of
Massachusetts, upon the requisition of the Governor of Connecticut, accompanied by a certified copy of the indictment
charging the crime, and -an affidavit that the petitioner was a
fugitive from justice.
"It is claimed, in support of the petition, that the indictment was procured by mistake, and that the prisoner was not
in fact a fugitive from justice. These claims are denied by
the attorney for the State. In view of the conclusions reached,
it is not necessary to pass upon. these questions of fact. It
may be assumed, in. the disposition of this motion, that all the
allegations in the petition are true.
"Counsel for the petitioner claims that he can prove, in the
first place, that the indictment is invalid or void, by reason of
some mistake on the part of the grand -jury. But the effect of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

an inquiry into this question, assuming such evidence to- be
admissible and true, would be to call upon the Federal court
to examine into the proceedings under which said indictment
was obtained, and to determine collaterally its sufficiency
under the laws of this State."
"It is further claimed that the petitioner was not a fugitive
from justice, and that., inasmuch as extradition proceedings
are based upon the statutes of the United States, the question
whether he was in fact such fugitive is a Federal question,
which it is the duty of this court to decide. But it is not denied that the demand made upon the executive authority of
the asylum State, and his action thereon, were proper in form;
and it will not be assumed in advance that he has surrendered
the petitioner upon insufficient evidence."
"1I do notf mean to be understood as denying the right to
this prisoner, at an appropriate time, to introduce evidence
that he was not a fugitive from justice, or that the evidence
before the Governor of Massachusetts was insufficient to authorize his action; nor do I intend at this time to pass upon
the merits of this or any other questions presented, nor to intimate what disposition might be made of these claims, in case
they were brought before this court after final action in the
state court. All that is now decided is that it must be assumed in advance that the petitioner may obtain all the protection to which he may be entitled in the courts of this
State."
"In view of the principle of right and law, underlying the
forbearance which the Federal and state courts exercise towards each other in order to avoid conflict, I should not be
justified in passing upon such questions in advance of the proceedings in the state courts."
On April 25, the petitioner filed in the Circuit Court an
appeal, reciting the petition, the return, and. the motion to
quash the return, and concluding as follows:
"The said Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut, on the twenty-eighth day of March, 1895,
made final ruling and decreed that upon the face of the petition, without hearing any evidence to sustain the petition, [and

WHITTEN v. TOMINSON.
Statement of the Case.'

denying the petitioner the right to introduce any evidence to
sustain said petition or tending to sustain it, which the plaintiff duly offered,] the writ should be discharged, and that the
motion to quash said return be denied, and it was afterwards
so decreed and ordered.
"Wherefore this petitioner appeals from the whole of said
decree of said Circuit Court, and the petition, return, motion
to quash, decree, writ and all other papers forming a record of
said cause may be sent to the Supreme Court of the United
States without delay, together with this appeal, and moves
that the said Supreme Court will proceed to hear the said
cause anew, and that the said decree of the said Circuit Court
be reversed, and for such further order and decree to be made
as will to the Supreme Court of the United States seem just
and right. The petition for the writ of habeas cwus, the
writ of habeas corpus, the return of the sheriff, the motion to
quash, and the decree of the court, are hereby made a part of
this appeal."
On the same day, that appeal was allowed by the District
Judge.
On May 8, the petitioner filed a paper, purporting to amend
his appeal by inserting the words above printed in brackets;
and with this paper filed the following letter addressed to
his counsel by the District Judge:
"United States Courts, Judges' Chambers, New Haven, May
4, 1895. William H. Baker, Esq., 39 Court Street, Boston,
Mass. Dear Sir: Continuous court engagements night and
day for two days have prevented an earlier reply to your
letter of April 29th. I had supposed that the record contained a statement of the fact that the court declined to hear
the evidence; and, if not, I am willing that the statement of
said fact should be inserted in the record, provided it can be
properly done at this time.
"Yours truly, Wm um K. Tow S.ND."

The record transmitted to this court set forth the matters

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

above stated; but showed no further order amending the
record, or allowing the amendment of the appeal.
.Mr. WilliamIH Baker fer appellant.
:3rr. Edward H. Rogers, (with whom was Mr. Tilton E.
Doolittle on the brief,) for appellee.
IM . JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By the judicial system of the United States, established by
Congress under the power conferred upon it by the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the courts of the several States
has not been controlled or interfered with, except so far as
necessary to secure the supremacy of the Constitution, laws
and treaties of the United States.
With this end, three different methods have been provided
by statute for bringing before the courts of the United States
proceedings begun in the courts of the States.
First. From the earliest organization of the courts of the
United States, final judgments, whether in civil or in criminal
cases, rendered by the highest court of a State in which t decision in the case could be had, against a right specially set
up or claimed under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed
by this court on writ of error. Acts of September 24, 1789,
c. 20, § 25, 1 Stat. 85; February 5, 1867, c. 28, § 2, 14 Stat:
386; Rev. Stat. § 709; .Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304;
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264. Such appellate jurisdiction is expressly limited to cases in which the decision of the
state court is against the right claimea under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, because, when the decision of that court is in favor of such a right, no revision by
this court is necessary to protect the national government
in the exercise of its rightful powers. Gordon v. Caldcleugki,
3 Cranch, 268; -Montgomery v. liernandez, 12 Wheat. 129;
Commonwealth Bank v. Gr ffil, 14 Pet. 56, 58; Missouri v.

Andriano, 138 U. S. 496, 500, 501.

WfIfTTEN v. TOMLINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Second. By the Judiciary Act of 1789, the only other way
of. transferring a case from a state court to a court of the
United States was under section 12, by removal, into the
Circuit Court of the United States, before tial, of civil.
actionsagainst aliens, or between citizens of different States.
1 Stat. 79. Such right of removal for trial has been regulated, and extended to cases arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, by successive acts of
Congress, which need not be particularly referred to, inasmuch as the present case is not one of such a removal.
Third. By section 14 of the old Judiciary Act, the courts'
of the United States were authorized, in general terms, to
issue writs of habeas co?:pus and other writs necessary for
the exercise of their respective jurisdictions; "provided that
writs of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to prisoners in
jail, unless when they are in custody under or by color of
the authority of the United .States, or are committed for
trial before some court of the- same, or are necessary to be
brought into court to testify." 1 Stat. 81. Under that act,
no writ of habeas couyus, except ad testiftcandum, could be
issued inthe case of a prisoner in jail under commitment by
a court or magistrate of a State. Exparte .Dorr, 3 How.
103; An re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 593.
By subsequent acts of Congress, howevdr, the power of the
courts of the United States to issue wfits of habeas compus of
prisoners in jail has been extended to the case of any person
in custody for an act done or omitted in pursuance of a law
of the United States, or of an order or process of a court or
judge thereof; or in custody in violation of the Constitutiob,
or of a law or treaty of the United States; or who, being a
subject or citizen of and domiciled in a.foreign State, is in custody for an act done or omitted under any right or exemption
claimed under a' foreign State, and depending upon the law
of nations. Acts of March 2, 1833, c. 57, § 7, 4 Stat., 634;
August 29, 1842, c. 257, 5 Stat. 539 ; February 5, 1867, c. 28,
§ 1, 14 Stat. 385'; Rev. Stat. § 753.
By the existing statutes, this court and the Circuit and
District Courts, and any justice or judge thereof, have power

'OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiniion of the Court.

to grant writs of habeas cortus for the purpose of inquiring
into the cause of restraint of liberty of any prisoner in jail, who
"is in custody in violation of the Constitution, or of a law or
treaty of the United States;" and "the court or justice or
judge, to whom the application is made, shall forthwith award
a writ of habeas corpus, unless it appears from the petition
itself that the party is not entitled thereto;" and "shall
proceed in a summary way to determine the facts of the case,
by-hearing the testimony and arguments, and thereupon to
dispose of the party as law and justice may require." Rev.
Stat. § 751-755, 761.
The power thus granted to the courts and judges of
the United States clearly extends to prisoners held in custody,
under the authority of a State, in violation of the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States. But in the exercise of
this power the courts of the United States are not bound to
discharge by writ of habeas corpus every such prisoner.
The principles which should govern their action in this
matter were stated, upon great consideration, in the leading
case of Exoparte Royall, 11i U. S. 241, and were repeated in
one of the most recent cases upon the subject, as follows:
"We cannot suppose that Congress intended to compel
those courts, by such means, to draw to themselves, in the
first instance, the control of all criminal prosecutions commenced in state courts exercising authority within the same
territorial limits, where the accused claims that he is held in
custody in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The injunction to hear the case summarily, and thereupon Ito
dispose of the party as law and justice require,' does not deprive the court of discretion as to the time and mode in which
it will exert the powers conferred Upon it. That discretion
should be exercised in the light of the relations existing, under
our system of government, between the judicial tribunals of
the Union and of the States, and in recognition of the fact that
the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed
by unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound to guard
and protect rights secured by the Constitution." "Where a
person is in custody, under process from a state court of origi-

WHITTEN v. TOMLINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nal jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of such
State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, the Circuit
Court has a discretion, whether it will discharge him, upon
habeas corpous, in advance of his trial in the court in which he
is indicted; that discretion, however, to be subordinated to
any special circumstances requiring immediate action. When
the state court shall have finally acted upon the case, the
Circuit Court has still a discretion whether, under all the circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be
put to his writ of error from the highest court of the State, or
whether it will proceed, by writ of habeas co~pus, summarily to
determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his liberty in
violatiofi of the Constitution of the United States." Ex arte
R 0oyal,
117 U. S.241, 251-253; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S.
89, 93-95.
In ExparteRoyall and in 7ew York v. Eno, it was recognized that in cases of urgency, such as those of prisoners in
custody, by authority of a State, for an act done or omitted to
be done in pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an
*orderor process of a court of the United States, or otherwise
involving the authority and operations of the general government, or its relations to foreign nations, the courts of the
United States should interpose by writ of habeas corpus
Such an eiceptional case was In re _eagle, 135 U. S.1, in
which a deputy marshal of the United States, charged under
the Constitution and laws of the United States with the duty
of guarding and protecting a judge of a court of the United
States, and of doing whatever might be necessary for that
purpose, even to the taking of human life, was discharged on
habeas corpus from custody under commitment by a magistrate
of a State on a charge of homicide committed in the performance of that duty.
Such also was In re Loney, 134: U. S. 3M2, in which a person
arrested by order of a magistrate of a State, for perjury in
testimony given in the case of a contested Congressional election, was discharged on habeas corpus, because a charge of such
perjury was within the exclusive cognizance:of the courts of lhe
VOL. CLX-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, and to permit it to be prosecuted in the state
courts would greatly impede and embarrass the.administration
of justice in a national tribunal.
Such, again, was Tildenhus's case, 120 U. S. 1, in which the
question was decided on habeas corpus whether an arrest, under
authority of a State, of one of the crew of a foreign merchant
vessel, charged with the commission of a crime on board of
her while in a port within the State, was contrary to the provisions of a treaty between the United States and the country
to which the vessel belonged.
But, except in such peculiar and urgent cases, the courts of
the United States will not discharge the prisoner by habeas
corpus in advance of a final determination of his-case in the
courts of the State; and, even after such final determination in
those courts, will generally leave the petitioner to the usual and
orderly course of proceeding by writ of error from this court.
Ex parte Boyall, 117 U. S.241 ; Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S.
516; In r'e Duncan, 139 U. S.449; In re Food, 140 U. S. 278;
In re Jugiro,140 U. S.291 ; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183; In
re 1rederich, 149 U. S.70 ; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S.89;
Pepke v. Cronan, 155 U. S.100; Bergemann v. Backer, 157
U. S.655.
In a petition for a writ of habeas corpus; verified by the
oath of the petitioner, as required by section 754 of the Revised Statutes, facts duly alleged may be taken to be true,
unless denied by the return, or controlled by other evidence.
But no allegation of fact in the petition can be assumed to be
admitted, unless distinct and unambiguous.
The facts upon which the lawfulness of the imprisonment
of this petitioner depends are obscurely and imperfectly presented in his petition, and in the record transmitted to this
court.
The general allegations in the petition, that the petitioner
is detained in violation of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and of the constitution and laws of the State
of Connecticut, and is held without due process of law, are
averments of mere conclusions of law, and not of matters of
fact. Cuddy's case, 131 U. S.280, 286.

WHITTEN v. TOMLINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition begins by alleging that the petitioner is a prisoner confined by the sheriff of the county of New Haven in
the county jail for a supposed criminal offence, to wit, the
crime of murder in the second degree, and that his imprisonment is by virtue of a warrant, a copy whereof is.in the posgession, of the sheriff. It also alleges that the petitioner was
a citizen of Massachusetts, and was extradited from that State
for said alleged crime in January, 1895. So far, certainly, no
unlawful imprisonment is shown.
The allegation that in August and September, 1893, he was
tried before a local court in New Haven upon the same charge,
and, upon a full hearing, was discharged by the court, would
seem to point to a hearing and- discharge upon an application
for his committal to jail -to await prosecution, rather than to a
formal trial and acquittal; and, whatever effect it might have,
if pleaded to a subsequent indictment, affords no ground for
his discharge on habeas corpus., -E.parteBigelow, 113 U. S.
328; Beltetitioner,159 U. S. 95.
It is then alleged that he remained in New Haven during
at least two sessions of the grand jury, and then, early in 1894,
removed to Mazsachusetts.; and that in January, 1895, he was
arrested in Massachusetts and brought to New Haven upon
a warrant of extradition, issued by the Governor of Massachusetts, upon the demand of the Governor of Connecticut, alleging that an indictment for murder had been found against
him by the grand jury of the county of Ne-w Haven. These
allegations are immaterial, except as introductory to the remaining allegations of the petition.
One of these allegations is" that no indictment was ever
found against him by any grand jury sitting at any time within
the State of Connecticut, nor no indictment as and for a true
bill ever fs presented by any grand jury in said State of
Connecticut against him, which he is ready to verify and
prove, and any pretended indictment was found by mistake or
misconception, and was not their true verdict or finding."
It isnot alleged that it appears by the records of the court
that no indictment was presented by the grand jury; and it
is by no means clear that it was intended to allege anything

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

more than that an indictment, actually presented by the grand
jury to the court, lacked the words "a true bill," and was
found by the grand jury by mistake and misconception. Such
matters are proper subjects of inquiry in the courts of the
State, but afford no ground for interposition by the courts of
the United States by writ of habeas corpus. In re TFood, 140
U. S. 278; In re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575.
The only other allegation in the petition is that the petitioner was not, at the time of his extradition from Mfassachusetts, a fugitive from the justice of Connecticut.
The record, independently of the opinion of the Circuit
Court, does not show what, if any, evidence was introduced at
the hearing upon which the writ of habeas corpus was discharged and the prisoner left in custody. The case was heard
by the Circuit Court, and not by the District Judge at chambers or out of court. Had it been so heard by him, there
eould have been no appeal to this court from his decision. Rev.
Stat. § 751, 752, 764; Act of March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat.
437; Carperv. Fitzgerald,121 U. S. 87; Lambert v. Barrett,
157 U. S. 697. The subsequent correspondence between the
District Judge and the petitioner's counsel had no proper place
in the record of the court, and it does not appear that the
judge intended or expected his letter to be filed or recorded.
In that letter he did no more than express his willingness.that
the record should be amended, provided it could properly be
done. It does not appear that the judge afterwards allowed,
or was requested to allow, any amendment of the rec6rd, or of
the appeal; and the petitioner or his counsel could not amend
either the record or the appeal by his own act, without leave
of the judge.
If, in order to ascertain what was proved, or offered to be
proved, at the hearing, we turn to the opinion filed in the
court below and sent up with the record, it thereby appears
that the petitioner offered to prove that the indictment
against him was procured by some mistake of the grand jury,
and that he was not in fact a fugitive from justice; and that
the judge assumed, for the purpose of the disposition of the
writ of habeas cor'us, that all the allegations of the petition
were true.

W-HITTEN v. TOMLINTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

But if the opinion can be referred to as showing part of
what took place at the hearing, it may likeivise be referred to
as showing other matters then before the court, and especially
the proceedings for extradition.
As to those proceedings, the opinion (consistently with the
allegations of the petition, so far as anything upon the subject
is distinctly and unequivocally alleged therein,) not only states,
as uncontroverted facts, that the petitioner 'was arrested iii
Massachusetts, and brought into Connecticut, under a warrant
of extradition issued by the Governor of Massachugetts, upon
a requisition of the Governor of Connecticut, accompanied
by a certified copy of the indictment, and by an affidavit
that the petitioner was a fugitive-from justice; but expressly
says that it was not denied that the demand upon the executive authority of Massachusetts, and his action thereon, were
proper in form..
A warrant of extradition of the Governor of a State, issued
upon the requisition of the Governor of another State, accompanied by a copy of an indictment, is prima facie evidence, at least, that the accused had been indicted and was
a fugitive from justice; and, when the court in which the
indictment was found has jurisdiction of the"offence, (which
there is nothing in this case to impugn,) is sufficient to make
it the duty of the courts of the United States to decline interposition by writ of habeas coru8,and to leave the question of
the lawfulness of the detention of the prisoner, in the State in
which he was indicted, to be inquired into and determined,
in the first instance, by the courts of the State, which are
empowered and obliged, equally with the courts of the United
States, to recognize and uphold the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States. Robb v. Connolly, 111
U. S.624; Ex parte ]?eggel, 114 U. S.642; Roberts v. Reilly,
116 U. S.80; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. i83; Pearce v. Texas,
155 U. S.311.
The return of~the sheriff to the writ of habeas corpus does
not (as it might well have done) set forth the indictment, and
the warrant of extradition, as grounds for the detention of the
prisoner. But any defect in the return in this respect affords no

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

reason why the courts of the United States should take the
prisoner out of the custody of the authorities of the State.
The return does show that the petitioner is held in custody by the sheriff by virtue of a mittimus issued to him by
a justice of the peace, in accordance with sections 962 and
1613 of the General Statutes of Connecticut of 1887',1 which
authorize the surety on a recognizance, either in civil or in
criminal proceedings, upon making affidavit that his principal
intends to abscond, to obtain from a justice. of the peace a
mittimus to commit him to jail.
The only objections taken by the petitioner to the sufficiency
of this mittimus are, 1st, that it shows that the recognizance
was -entered into on the 17th of January, 1895, for his appearance "before the Superior Court to be holden at New Haven
within and for the county of New Haven on the first Tuesday
of January, 1895," which was a day already passed; and 2d,
that it describes him as "of the town of Newton, State of
Massachusetts," while the statute only authorizes the issue of
a mittimus by "a justice of the peace of the county in which
such principal resides." But the first Tuesday of January was
the day appointed by law for the beginning of the term of
the Superior Court. Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1615. And the question whether the recognizance might be construed as requiring
an appearance at a subsequent day in the course of the term,
ISEc. 962. -Any bail or surety who has entered into a recognizance for.
the personal appearance- of another, and shall afterwards believe that his
principal intends to abscond, may apply to a justice of the peace in the
county in which such principal resides, produce his bail bond, or evidence
of his being bail or surety, and verify the reason of his application by oath
or otherwise; and thereupon such justice shall forthwith grant a mittimus,
directed to a proper officer or indifferent person of such county, commanding him forthivith to arrest such principal, and commit him to the jail of
such county; and the keeper of such jail shall receive such principal, and
retain him in jail until discharged by due order of law; and such surrender
of the principal shall be a full discharge of the surety upon his bond or
recognizance.
SEC. 1613. Any surety in a recognizance in criminal proceedings, who
believes that his principal intends to abscond, may have the same remedy,
and proceed and be discharged in the same manner, as sureties upon bail
bonds in civil actions.

