GREGORY v. VAN EE.
Statement of the Case.

did, the mortgagee therein need not be made a party, but must
take notice of the proceedings to enforce the prior mortgage at
his peril. He may, however, apply to set aside the sale on
proper grounds. _Dupaseur v. _Roohereau, 21 Wall. 130;
Vatsom v. Bondurant, 21 Wall. 123; Carite v. Trotrot, 105
U. S. 751.
As heretofore noticed, Mrs. Young and her husband-prayed
for redemption, which is not, in any foreclosure case, allowable
as such; while so far as their pleadings are regarded as seeking the settihg aside of the sale and for a resale, we find no
adequate grounds for according that relief.
The decree of June 9. 1890, is reversed with costs; and the
cause remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to
enter a decree overruling the objections to the sale of July
30, 1887; dissolving the injunction; adjudid#ting the
property to Afrs. Mary NYaZIe, wife of L'ustis F. GoZson,
and ordering the delivery of possessiorn to her.

GREGORY v. VAl EE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE LFST
CIRCUIT.
-No. 601. Submitted December 28, 1895. - Decided January 27,1896.

If the decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals is final under the sixth section
of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, a decree upon an intervention in
the same suit must be regarded as equally so; and even if the decree
on such proceedings may be in itself independent of the controversy
between the original parties, yet if the proceedings are entertainedin the
Circuit Court because of its possession of the subject of the ancillarr
or supplemental application, the disposition of the latter must partake of
the finality of the main decree, and cannot be brought here on the theory
that the Circuit Court exercised jurisdiction independently of the ground
of jurisdiction which was originally invoked as giving cognizance to that
court as a court of the United States.

GaEGoBY, a citizen of Ilinois, filed his bill in the Supreme
Judicial Coifrt of Massachusetts, December 16) .1884, against

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Frederick A. Pike, a citizen of Maine, and William C. N.
Swift, a citizen of Massachusetts, to recover two certain nonnegotiable promissory notes made by Swift, held by Pike,
and alleged by Gregory to be his property. This suit was
afterwards removed on Gregory's petition to the Circuit Court
on the sole ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties.
Pending the suit the notes were collected, and the proceeds
transferred to the registry in the cause. On the petition of
Swift and John C. Kemp Van Ee, who claimed to be interested-in the notes, Van Ee was made a party defendant by
order of court, against Gregory's objection, and filed a crossbill. Butterfield was made a defendant on the application of
himself and Swift, and filed a cross-bill, and Talbot, attorney
for Pike and his estate, filed a petition for attorney's fees.
Pike died, and his executrix, Mary H. Pike, was made a party.
The Circuit Court dismissed the cross-bill of Butterfield and
decreed payments out of the fund in favor of Mrs. Pike and
Van Ee. From this decree separate appeals were taken, by
Gregory as against Mrs. Pike, and as against Van Ee; by
Talbot; and by Butterfield, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit and went to judgment there. The opinipn of that court gives a clear idea of a somewhat confused
record. 67 Fed. Rep. 687. The Court of Appeals concurred
with the disposition of the case by the Circuit Court as to
Mrs. Pike and Butterfield, but awarded relief to Talbot; and
held that Van Ee was improperly made a party defendant,
that his cross-bill was unauthorized and should be dismissed,
but that it could be properly treated as an intervening petition, and, so treating it, that he was entitled thereon to the
relief accorded by the Circuit Court. The case was remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to enter a final decree,
modifying the original decree in the particulars pointed out.
From the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals separate appeals to this court were prayed by Gregory and allowed, as
against Van Ee, Mary H. Pike, and Talbot, which appeals
were separately docketed here as Nos. 601, 602, and 603. The
appeals in Nos. 602 and-603, those against Mrs. Pike and Talbot, were dismissed November 25, and a motion to dismiss the
appeal against Van Ee, No. 601, is now made.

GREGORY v. VAN

E.

Opinion of the Court

Xr. 1u sell Gray for the motion.
-M. E. J Pheps and Mr. F. A. Brooks opposing.
Ma. CHmF JusTic0 FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of court.

The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the suit of Gregory
against Pike and Swift rested on the fact that the controversy
therein was between citizens of different States, and this was
'the sole ground on which Gregory removed the cause from
the statd court to the Circuit-Court. The fund was in the
Circuit Court because realized out of and substituted for the
subject of contention in that suit, and Van Ee recovered on
his intervening petition what he claimed to be his share of
that fund.
In Bouse v. ItcAer, 156 U. S. 47, we held that if the decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals is final under the sixth
section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, a decree upon
an intervention in the same suit must be regarded as equally
so because the intervention is entertained in virtue of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court already subsisting. It was pointed
out that where property is in the actual possession of the Circuit Court, this draws to it the right to decide upon conflicting claims for its ultimate possession and control, and that
where assets are in the course of administration all persons
entitled to participate may come in under the jurisdiction
acquired between the original parties, by ancillary or supplemental proceedings, even though jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court would be lacking if such proceedings had been independently prosecuted; that the exercise of the power of disposition by a Circuit Court of the United States over such
an intervention is the exercise of power invoked at the institution of the main suit; aud that it is to that point of time
that the inquiry as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
must necessarily be referred. Therefore, that, if the decree
in the main suit were final, decrees in accessory and subordinate proceedings would be also final, and appeals therefrom
could not be sustained.

