In re KEASBEY & MATTISON CO., Petitioner.

221

Statement of the Case.

In re KEASBEY AND MATTISON COMPANY;
Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.

o. 6. Original. Submitted October14,1895.-Decided December 16, 1895.
By virtue of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of
A:ugust'13, 1888, c. 866, a corporation incorporated by a State of the
Union cannot be compelled to answer to a suit for infringement of a
trade-mark under the act of March 3, 1881, c. 138, in a district in which
it is not incorporated and of which the. plaintiff is not an inhabitant,
although it does business and has a general agent in that district.

THIs was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the judges
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, to command them to take jurisdiction
and proceed against the E. L. Patch Company upon a bill in
equity, filed in that court on January 26, 1895, by the petitioner, described in the bill as a corporation organized and existing undef the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, against the
E. L. Patch Company, alleged in the bill to be a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and having its principal office and place of business
in the city and State of New York, and against Henry E. C.
Kuehne and Edward H. Lubbers, alleged to be citizens of the
United States and of the State of New York, and managing
or general agents of the E. L. Patch Company in that State,
for infringement of a trade-mark, owned by the petitioner,
registered in the Patent Office under the laws of the United
States, and used in commerce between the United States and
several foreign nations named in the bill; and alleging that
"this is a suit of a civil nature in equity, where the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value of two thousand dollars, and arising under the laws of
the United States, and also in which there is a controversy
between citizens of different States, within the intent and
meaning of the statute in such case made and provided."

OCTOBER TER"I,

1895

Argument for Petitioner.

Upon the filing of the bill in equity, a subpcena addressed
to all the defendants was issued, and was served in the city of
New York upon the E. L. Patch Company by exhibiting the
original and delivering a copy to Kuehne, one of its managing
agents in the district, and was also served upon Kuehne and
Lubbers individually.
Upon the return of the subpoena, the E. L. Patch Company,
by its solicitor appearing specially for this purpose, moved to
set aside the alleged service of the subpcena upon the company; and the Circuit Court, upon a hearing, ordered that the
motion be granted, and that service set aside as null and void,
and the company, relieved from appearing to plead or answer
to the bill.
-Mr. Edward . Jones for petitioner.
The questions to be passed on by this court are: (1) Whether
or not that part of the first section of the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 373, relating to the jurisdiction of the District and Circuit
Courts as amended by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
which provides that "no civil suit shall be brought before
either of said courts against any person by any original process
or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is
an inhabitant," is applicable to suits brought under a prior
special act of Congress authorizing the registration of certain
trade-marks and providing remedies in the courts of the
United States for their infringement, such special act in itself not containing any such restriction upon the exercise of
jurisdiction; and (2) Whether or not, if the provision of the
act of 1887, as amended, and above quoted, does apply to
such suits, the defendant corporation has waived its privilege
of being sued in the district of its residence by doing business
and having agents for the transaction thereof in the State and
district where the suit is brought, the laws of that State providing that, such foreign or non-resident corporations shall be
subject to suit therein as a condition to their right to do business there?
The case in no aspect can be considered to fall within the

In re KEASBEY & MATTISON CO., Petitioner.

223

Argument for Petitionei.

decisions of this court construing the application of the further
provision of the first section of the judiciary act of 1887, as
amended, declaring that "where the jurisdiction is founded
only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different.
States suit shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant," for the plain
reason that the jurisdiction invoked in this case does not
depend only on that fact.
_ The contention in behalf of the petitioner is,
(1) That there is really no question of jurisdiction at all in
this case, as the learned judge of the Circuit Court supposed, the
real question being whether or not the exercise of jurisdiction
has been prohibited or restricted so as to exclude the defendant from its operation, upon its pleading the privilege of being
sued only in the district of its residence or inhabitancy.
(2) That the provisions of the first section of the present
judiciary act above quoted are inapplicable to this case, because the suit being founded on a special act of Congress, to
wit, the act authorizing the registration and suits for the infringement of trade-marks; and that act bontains no such prohibition or restriction.
(3) Even if the case is governed by the judiciary act of
1887, as amended, and conceding that the limitations of the
exercise of jurisdiction above quoted would otherwise operate,
the defendant has waived its privilege of being sued only in
the district of its residence by doing business in the State and
district where it is sued and committing there the injury for
which the suit is brought.
The Circuit Court clearly has jurisdiction of the defendant
corporation.
This proposition is evident not only from the express terms
of the act relating to trade-marks, but also from the act of
1887, as amended.
There can, therefore, be no question of jurisdiction. The
only question is, as before stated, whether or not the exercise
of jurisdiction in a case like the present is, by some other
provision of law, excluded or forbidden when pleaded by the
defendant. In other words, has this defendant the privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Petitioner.

of being sued only in the district of its residence? or has it
waived that privilege.?
That the place or district where suits in the courts of the
United States are to be brought is a mere privilege, which
the defendant may waive, is well established. Exparte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369 ; St. Louis & San F'anciscoRailway v.
McBride, 141 U. S. 127; Cent1ral Trust Co. v. .McGeorge, 151
U. S. 129.
The present suit being founded on the special act of Congress relating to trade-marks, the privilege of being sued only
in the district of the defendant's residence, provided by the act
of 1887 as amended, does not apply.
Of course, it is not intended to be argued in behalf of the
petitioner that this leaves a plaintiff to sue the defendant in
any place or district he may select, as the learned Circuit
Judge suggested at the argument in the Circuit Court. But
it is argued that, as the trade-mark statute, unlike the act
of 1887, does not confer upon defendants the privilege of
being sued only in the districts of their residence, it leaves it
to the Circuit Court to assume jurisdiction whenever the
ordinary conditions to its exercise exist, i.e. whenever the
defendant is present in such a way that courts of general
jurisdiction may assert their authority over his person or
property. And in the case of a foreign or non-resident corporation it is abundantly established that this condition exists
whenever such foreign or non-resident corporation comes
within the territorial limits of a State and Federal district,
and there carries on business by-agents or servants pursuant
to local laws providing, as a condition to such corporation
doing business there, that it shall submit to the authority of
the courts of the place where it is thus permitted to exercise
its functions. Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; 'ailroad Co.
v. Harris,12 Wall. 65; Ex yarte Schollenberger,96 U. S. 369;
Railroad Co. v. .Koontz, 104 U. S. 5, 10; St. Clair v. Cox, 106
U. S. 350; ff. . ffut. Ins. Co. v. Woodworth, 111 U. S. 138;
In re louisville Underwritesus, 134 U. S. 488.
This suit being, therefore, as above stated, founded upon.a
special act of Congress, is not subject to the operation of the

In re KEASBEY & 39ATTISON CO., Petitioner.

225

Argument for Petitioner.

general Judiciary Act, as amended. In re Boorst, 150U. S.
653; United States v. Afooney, 116 U. S. 104.
By doing business in the State the laws of which require a
non-resident corporation to designate a person upon whom
service may be made, or, in case such designation be not made,
that service may be made upon its managing agent, the defendant waived its privilege of being sued only.in the place of
its inhabitancy ; and the suit not being one where jurisdiction
depends only on diverse citizenship, the court is not only competent to take cognizance of the case, but may subject the
defendant.to its process.
I
Even if this case can be considered as subject to the operation of the act of 1887, as'amended, the decisions in cases
where the sole ground of. jurisdiction was diverse citizenship
do not apply, because, as previously observed, that is not the
only ground of jurisdiction here. This-is notably true of the
cases of Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S.444; Southern.
Pactjc Company v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; and Empire
Coal Co. v. Empire Coal & Mining Co., 150 U. S. 159, relied
upon by the respondents' counsel. Those were cases where
the sole grouid of jurisdiction was diverse citizenship, and
both parties being nonresidents, it was held, upon a construetion of the statute which provided that in such cases suit may
be brought only in the place of the residence of the, plaintiff
or the defendant, the actions could not be maintained in any
other district.
Therefore, conceding that the act of 1887, as amended,
applies, this case rests upon the other clause which provides
that "no civil suit shall be brought before either of the said
courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other. district than that whereof he is an inhabitant;" and under this clause it is insisted that the defendant
may waive its privilege of being-sued in its place of residence,
and that it has waived it by doing business and having agents
in the State and city of New York. Railroad Co. v. Harris,
12 Wall. 65; St. Clair v. Cow, 106 U. S. 350; New York,
Lake Erie & Western Railroadv. Estill, 147 U. S.591.
VoL. CLX-16

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. William A. Abbott opposing.
Mi. JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
This case presents a single question of jurisdiction 9f the
Circuit Court of the United States, and involves no consideration of the merits of the cause of action asserted in the bill
filed in that court.
By the act of March 3, 1881, c. 138, "owners of trade-marks
used in commerce with foreign nations, or with the Indian
tribes, provided such owners shall be domiciled in the United
States, or located in any foreign country or tribe which by
treaty, convention or law affords similar privileges to citizens
of the United States, may obtain registration of such trademarks," by causing to be recorded in the Patent Office a
statement and description thereof, and cbmplying with other
requirements of the act. 21 Stat. 502.
By section 7 of that act, "any person who shall reproduce,
counterfeit, copy, or colorably imitate any trade-mark registered under this act, and affix the same to merchandise of
substantially the same descriptive properties as those described in the registration, shall be liable to an action on the
case for damages for the wrongful use of said trade-mark at
the suit of the owner thereof; and the party aggrieved shall
also have his remedy, according to the course of equity, to
enjoin the wrongful use of such trade-mark used in foreign
commerce or commerce with Indian tribes, as aforesaid, and
to recover. compensation therefor in any court having jurisdiction over the person guilty of such wrongful act; and
courts of the United States shall have original and appellate
jurisdiction in such cases, without regard to the amount in
controversy."
. By section 11, nothing in this act shall be construed "to
give cognizance to any court of the United States in an
action or suit between citizens of the same State, unless the
trade-mark in controversy is used on goods intended to be
transported to a foreign country, or in lawful commercial
intercourse with an Indian tribe."

In re KEASBEY'& MATTISON CO., Petitioner.

227

Opinion of the Court.

While section 7 provides that "courts of the United States
shall have original and appellate jurisdiction in such cases,
without regard to the amount in controversy;" and while
the provision of section 11, that nothing in-the act shall be
construed to give "cognizance to any court of the United
States in an, action or suit between citizens of the same
State," unless the trade-mark is used in commerce with a
foreign country or an Indian tribe, implies that a suit for
infringement of a trade-mark used in such commerce may
be maintained in some court of the United States; yet neither
of those sections, and no other provision of the act, specifies
in what court of the United States, or in what district, suits
under the act may be brought; but the jurisdiction of such
suits, in these respects, is left to be-ascertained from the acts
regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
At the time of thb passage of the Trade-Mark Act of -1881,
the only act to which reference could be had to ascertaii
such jurisdiction was the Judiciary Act of 'arch 3, 1875,
p. 137, ยง 1, providing that "the Circuit Courts of the United
States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the
courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at
common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars,
and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority," "or in which there shall be a controversy between
citizens of different States," "or a controversy between citizens
of a State and foreign States, citizens or subjects." "But no
person shall be arrested in one district for, trial in another in
any civil action before a Circuit or District Court. And no
civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts against
4ny person, by. any original process or proceeding, in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in
which he shall be found at the time of serving such process
or commencing such prpceeding," except in certain cases
not material to the present inquiry. 18 Stat. 470.
The restriction of jurisdiction, with respect to amount, in
the act of 1875, was perhaps superseded, as to trade-mark

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

cases, by the express provision of section 7 of the act of 1881;
but the jurisdiction, with regard to the court, as well as to
the district, in which such suits should be brought, was controlled by the act of 1875, as the only act in force upon the
subject. Tinder the provision of that act, which allowed a
defendant to be sued in the district of which he was an inhabitant, or in that in which he was found, a corporation
could doubtless have been sued either in the district in which
it was incorporated, or in any district in which it carried on
business and had a general agent. Ex parte &chollenberger,
96 U. S. 369, 377; iVew -EnglandIns. Co. v. Woodworth, 111
U. S. 138, 146; Shaw v. Quincy -Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444,
452; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 207.
But when this suit was brought, the first section of the
Judiciary Act of 1875 had been amended by the act of March
3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888,
c. 866, in the parts above quoted, by substituting, for the jurisdictional amount of $500, exclusive of costs, the amount of
$2000, exclusive of interest and costs; and by striking out,
after the clause "and no civil suit shall be brought before
either of said courts against any person by any original process
or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is
an inhabitant," the alternative, "or in which he shall be found
at the time of serving such process, or commencing such proceeding," and by adding " but where the jurisdiction is founded
only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant." 24 Stat.
552; 25 Stat. 433.
The last clause is added by way of proviso to the next preceding clause, -which, in its present form; forbids any suit to
be brought in any other district than that of which the defendant is an inhabitant; and the effect is. that, in every suit between citizens of the Tnited States, when the jurisdiction is
founded upon any of the grounds mentioned in this section,
other than the citizenship of the parties, it must be brought
in the district of which the defendant is an. inhabitant; but
when the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the par-

In re KEASBKY &

[ATTISON CO., Petitioner.

229

Opinion of the Court.

ties are citizens of different States, the suit shall be brought
in the district of which either party is an inhabitant. And"
it is established by the decisions of this court that, within
the meaning of this act, a corporation cannot be considered a
citizen, an inhabitant or a resident of a State in which it has
not been incorporated; and, consequently, that a corporation
incorporated in a State of the Union cannot be compelled to
answer to a civil suit, at law or in equity, in a Circuit Court
of the United States held in another State, even if the corporation has a usual place of business in that State. -McCormick Co. v. Valthers, 134 U. S. 41, 43; Shaw v. Quincy
.Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444; Soutkern Pacific Co. v..1enton,
146 U. S.'202. Those cases, it is true, were .of the class in
which the jurisdiction is founded only upon the fact that the
parties are citizens or corporations of different States. But
the reasoning on which they proceeded is equally applicable
to the other class, mentioned in the same section, of suits arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the. United
States; and the only difference is that, by the very terms of
the statute, a suit of this class is to be brought in-the district
of which the defendant is an inhabitant, and cannot, without
the consent of the defendant, be brought in any other district,
even in one of which the plaintiff is an inhabitant.
When the parties are citizens of different States, so that
the case comes within the general grant of jurisdiction in the
first part of the section, the defendant, by entering a general
appearance in a suit brought against him in a district of which
he is not an inhabitant, waives the right to object that it is
brought in the wrong district. Inrior Constructio. Co. v.
Gibney, ante, 21[, and cases there cited. But a corporation, by
doing business or appointing a general agent in a district other
than that in which it is created, does not waive its right, if
seasonably availed of, to insist that the suit should have been
brought in the latter district. Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co.
and Sout7hem Pacti Co. v. Denton, above cited.
In the case of Hotorst,Tetitioner, 150 U. S. 653, on which
the petitioner in this case principally relied, the decision was
that the provision of the act of 1888, forbidding suits to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

brought in any other district than that of which the defendant is an inhabitant, had no application to an alien or a foreign
corporation sued here, and especially in a suit for infringement
of a patent right; and therefore such a firm or corporation
might be so sued by a citizen of a State of the Union in any
district in which valid service could be made on the defendant.
That case is distinguishable from the one now before the
court in two essential particulars: First. It was a suit against
a foreign corporation, which, like an alien, is not a citizen or
an inhabitant of any district within the United States; and
was therefore not within the scope or intent of the provision
requiring suit to be brought in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant. See Galveston &cb.Railway v.
Gonzales, 151 U. S.496. Second. It was a suit for infringement of a patent right, exclusive jurisdiction of which had
been granted to the Circuit Courts of the United States by
section 629, ci. 9, and section 711, cl. 5, of the Revised Statutes, reenacting earlier acts of Congress; and was therefore
not affected by general provisions regulating the jurisdiction
of the couits of the United States, concurrent with that of
the several States.
In United States v.-Mooney, 116 U. S.104, it was likewise held
that the first section of the Judiciary Act of 1875 did not take
away the exclusive jurisdiction, conferred by earlier statutes
upon the District Courts of the United States, over suits for
the recovery of penalties and forfeitures under the customs
laws of the United States.
No such rule is applicable to a suit for infringement of a
trade-mark under the act of 1881. That act, while conferring
upon the courts of the United States, in general terms, jurisdiction over such suits, without regard to the amount in controversy, does not specify either the court or the district of
the United States in which such suits shall be brought; nor
does it assume to take away or impair the jurisdiction which
the courts of the several States always had over suits for infringement of trade-marks.
This suit, then, assuming it to be maintainable under the
act of 1881, is one of which the courts of the United States

