UNITED STATES v. SAYWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence of ingenious experts whose theories are difficult to
be met and overcome. Thus, it is said, crimes of the most
atrocious character often go unpunished, and the public safety
is thereby endangered. But the possibility of such results
must always attend any system devised to ascertain and punish crime, and ought not to induce the courts to depart from
principles fundamental in criminal law, and the recognition
and enforcement of which are demanded by every consideration of humanity and justice. No man should be deprived of
his life under the forms of law unless the jurors who try him
are able, upon their consciences, to say that the evidence
before them, by whomsoever adduced, is sufficient to show
beyond a reasonable doubt the existence of every fact necessary to constitute the crime charged.
For the reason stated, and without alluding to other matters in respect to which error is assigned, the judgment is
reversed and the cause remanded with directions to grant a
new trial, and for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
1ever8ed.

UNITED STATES v. SAYWARD.,
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 75.

Submitted November 19,1895. -Decided

December 23,1895.

Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction of actions in which
the United States are plaintiffs, without regard to the value of the matter
in dispute.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M-M. Zicitor General for plaintiffs in eiTor.

No appearance for defendant in error.
Mm. JUSTIE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Coufrt.

This action was brought by the United States against the
defendants in error in the Circuit Court of the United States

for the District of Washington, Northern Division, to recover
the sum of $1470 as damages alleged to have been sustained
by the government in consequence of the unlawful conversion
by the defendants of timber made from fir trees on certain
unoccupied lands of the United States.
. One of the defendants demurred upon the ground that, as
the matter in dispute did not exceed the sum or value ot $2000,
the court was without jurisdiction.
The demurrer was sustained and the cause was dismissed,
the Circuit Court holding upon the authority of United States
v. Hufmaster, 38 Fed. Rep. 81, 83, that the acts of Congress
defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States deprive those courts of jurisdiction in civil suits where
the amount involved was less than $2000, exclusive of interest
and costs, even in cases in which the United States were plaintiffs or petitioners.
In accordance with the fifth section of the act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, the court below certified the above
question of -jurisdiction as the only question to be determined
upon the present writ of error.
By the judiciary act of 1789 it was provided that "the Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the
courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at
common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars,
and the United States are plaifitiffs or petitioners; or an alien
is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of the State where
the suit is brought and a citizen of another State." 1 Stat.
78, c. 20, ยง 11.
The Revised Statutes, which went into effect in 1873, specified the suits and proceedings of which the Circuit Courts of
the United States should have original jurisdiction, and, among
them, were many in which the government would ordinarily
be the plaintiff, namely, suits in equity where the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value of $500,
and the United States were petitioners; suits at common law

UNITED STATES' v. "SAYWARD.

495

Opinion of the Court.

where the United States, or any officer thereof suing under
the authority of an act of Congress, were plaintiffs; suits at
law or in equity arising under an act prqviding for revenue
from imports or.tonnage, except civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, and seizures on land or on .waters not
within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and except suits
for penalties and forfeitures; suits arising under a law providing internal revenue, and of all causes arising under the postal
laws; suits and proceedings for the enforcement of penalties
provided by 'laws regulating the carriage of passengers in
merchant vessels; proceedings for the condemnation of property taken as a prize, in pursuance of section 5308, Title, Insurrection; suits arising inder the laws relating to the slave
trade; and suits by the assignee of a debenture for drawback
of duties, issued under a law.for the collection of duties against
the person to whom such debenture was originally granted,or against any indorser thereof, to recover the amount of such
debenture. ยง 629.
In reference to the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the
United States, as defined by the Revised Statutes, it is- only
necessary to say that as to actions or suits in which'ordi-'
narily the United States would be petitioners or plaintiffs,
such jurisdiction was not made to depend: upon the amount
in dispute. ยง 563.
The first section of the act of March 3, 1875, determining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, and regulating the removal of causes from state courts, provided that
"the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,
of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity,
-where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of $500, and arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority, or in which the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners, or. in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States or a controversy
between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants
of different States, or a controversy between citizens of-a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and foreign States, citizens, or subjects; and shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable under the
authority of the United States, except as otherwise provided
by law, and concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts
of the crimes and offences cognizable therein." 18 Stat. 470,
c. 137, ยง 1.
The first section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1887, 24
Stat. 552, c. 373, corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25
Stat. 433, c. 866, amends the first section of the act of 1875,
and provides that "the Circuit Courts of the United States
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common
law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of ifterest and costs, the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority, or in which controversy the United
States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there shall be
a controversy between citizens of different States, in which
the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs,
the sum or value aforesaid, or a controvetsy between citizens
of the same State claiming lands under grants of different
States, or a controversy between citizens of a State and foreign
States, citizens, or subjects, in which the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
aforesaid, and shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes
and offences cognizable under the authority of the United
States, except as otherwise provided by law, and concurrent
jurisdiction with the District Courts of the crimes and offences
cognizable by them."
It cannot be doubted that the judiciary act of 1789 made
the value of the matter in dispute jurisdictional, even in suits
of a civil nature brought by the United States in the Circuit
Courts of the United States. But under the Revised Statutes
the amount in dispute was not made jurisdictional in civil
actions or proceedings instituted by the United States, except
that in suits in equtty the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
must have exceeded the sum of $500; and no restriction as

UNITED STATES v. SAYWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

to amount was imposed in respect of suits at common law
where the United States were plaintiffs.
Then came the act of 1875 which prescribed the limit of
$500, exclusive of costs, for all civil suits, at common law or
in equity, of the several classes therein specified, including
suits in which the United States were plaintiffs or petitioners.
It is to be observed that the section of that act which defines
the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts places the jurisdictional amount in advance of the enumeration, in the same
section, of thd different cases of which those courts could take
cognizance, and there is no.repetition, in that section, of such
amount. In each of those cases the amount named was jurisdictional under the act of 1875.
In the particulars last mentioned, the act of 1887, as corrected in 1888, is unlike any-previous statute. The jurisdictional amount, prescribed by the first section of that act, is
fixed at $2000, and that amount is afterwards, in the same
section, twice referred to by the words "the sum or value
*aforesaid." If Congress intended that the Circuit Court should
not have original cognizance of any case mentioned in the
first section of the act of 1887, unless the value of the matter
in dispute exceeded $2000, it-would not have taken pains to
refer to the value of the matter in dispute in immediate connection with particular cases, and, made no such distinct reference in connection with other cases placed within the original
cognizance of the Circuit Court. It is clear that a Circuit
Court cannot, under that statute, take original cognizance of
a case arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority, or of a controversy between citizens' of different
States, or of a controversy between citizens of a State, and
foreign States, citizens or subjects, unless the sum in dispute, exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds $2000, because in immediate connection with the enumeration of each of such cases will
be found expressed a limitation of that character in respect
of the sum or value necessary to give jurisdiction. But
that cannot- be said of the reference in the statute to a
contr6versy in Which the, United States are plaintiffs or
vouL.zX-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

petitioners, or to one between citizens of the same State
claiming lands under grants of different States. The clause
referring to cases or controversies of the two kinds last mentioned was placed between clauses that specifically refer to
the value of the matter in dispute; so that it may be reasonably inferred that Congress intended a Circuit Court should
take cognizance of a controversy in which the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners, or of a controversy between citizens
of the same State claiming lands under grants of different
States, without regard to the amount involved.
This interpretation of the statute is made quite clear if the
first section is subdivided as was the section of the Revised
Statutes defining the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
With a slight transposition or change of words, having due
regard to substance, the first section of the act of 1888, if subdivided, would read as follows:
The Circuit Courts of the United States shall have oiiginal
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,
of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity First. Where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of $20QO, and the suit is one
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority.
Second. Of any controversy in which the United States are
plaintiffs or petitioners. Third. Of any controversy between
citizens of different States, in which the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid. Fourth. Of any controversy between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of different States.
Fifth. Of any controversy between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens or subjects, in which the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest* and costs, the sum or
value aforesaid.
The United States being plaintiffs in this action, the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction without regard to the value of the
matter in dispute.
Tke judgment is reversed and the cause emandedfor further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

