UNITED STATES v. FULLER.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. FULLER.
APPEAL FOM THE CDOUET OFCLI.
No. 805. Submitted January 9, 1898.-Decided

January 20, 1896.

Mates are petty officers, and as such are entitled to rations or commutation
therefor.

Tmis was a petition for a commutation of rations alleged to
be due to claimant as a "mate" in the Navy.
The petitioner 'alleged his appointment as mate on March
4, 1870, and that from March 20, 1888, until August 12, 1891,

he was attached to the receiving ship Vermont at the Navy
Yard in Brooklyn; that, under sections 1579 and 1585 of the
Revised Statutes, he was entitled'to rations while so serving,
or to the commutation price thereof; but that the same had
been refused him, and he therefore prayed judgment in the
sum of $380.
The Court of Claims found the followitig facts:
* 1. The claimant, a mate in the United States Navy, was
attached to and served on the United States receiving ship
Vermont from March 20, 1888, to August 14, 1891.
2. During his said service he was not allowed a ration nor
commutation therefor.
3. Mates have not been regarded as petty officers by the
Treasury Department, nor by the Navy Department, prior to
the adoption of the Navy Regulations of 1893.
4. From-the year 1799 master's mates in.the United States
Navy were warrant officers, except when acting under temporary and" probationary appointments: Warrants were issued
to them after at least one year's sea service under a probationary appointment. No such warrants were, however,
issued after 1843, and in 1847 a regulation of the Navy Department forbade commanding officers to make such probationary appointments.
On October 7,1863, the Secretary of the Navy issued the

following circular:
Voi. CLX-38

OCTOBER TERMV,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

"Seamen enlisted in the naval servi-ce may hereafter, as
formerly, be advanced to the rating of master's mate, and

such rating may be bestowed by the commander of a squadron, subject to the approval of the Department, or by the
commander of a vessel, with the previous sanction of the
Department.
"Seamen so rated will be entitled to the same pay, rank
and privileges as appointed or warranted master's mates, but
will not be released by their rating from the obligations of
their enlistment, and may be disrated by the order or with
the sanction of the Department. They will not, while rated
as master's mates, be considered as subject to trial by a summary court-martial, nor be disrated by transfer, as in the case
of petty officers.
"Seamen rated as master's mates will not be discharged
with that rating, and will be considered as disrated to seamen
upon the expiration of their enlistment, but upon their immediate re~nlistment the rating of master's mate may be considered as renewed. The acceptance of such renewed rating
will be considered as a renunciation of any claim to additional pay for reinlistment. All ratings of master's mates
made by order of the commander of a squadron, and all such
ratings renewed by re~nlistment, will be reported to the
Department as early as practicable."
Upon these facts the court held, as a conclusion of law,
that the claimant was entitled to recover the sum of $372.60,
for which judgment was entered, and the Government appealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Charles C.
Binney for appellants.
M r. Robert B. Lines and iXr. John
pellee.
MR.

JUsTICe BRowm delivered

aul Jones for ap-

the opinion of the court.

Petitioner's claim is based upon the exception contained in
Rev. Stat. § 1579, which reads as follows: "No person not

UNITED STATES v. FULLER..

-595

Opinion of the Court.

actually attached to and doing duty on board a seagoing vessel, except tho yetty officers, seamen, and ordinary seamen attached to receiving-ships, or to the ordinary of a- navy yard,
and midshipmen, shall be allowed a ration," which, by § 1585,
for the purposes of commutation, is fixed at thirty cents.
The personnel of the Navy is divided generally into commissioned officers, non-commissioned or warrant officers, petty
officers, and seamen of various grades and denominations.
That a mate is not a commissioned officer is entirely clear, and
is not disputed by either party. It is equally clear that he is
above the grade of seaman, and the real question is whether
he is a non-commissioned or warrant officer, a person "temporarily appointed to the duties of a commissioned or warrant
officer," or a "petty officer."
We think little is to be gained in the solution of this question by a detailed examination of the several acts of -Congress
and navy regulations which antedate the fRevised Statutes.
Prior to 1843, "master's mates" were recognized by the law
as warrant officers, or as "warranted master's mates," and appear to have been sometimes appointed by the- President and
sometimes rated (that is, promoted from lower grades) by commanding officers. But shortly after this time they seem to
have fallen into disuse, and no further appointments were
made, although the grade was not formally abolished, and
those who had been previously appointed continued to hold
their offices and receive their pay.
At the outbreak of the Civil War, however, a great increase
in all the naval forces became necessary, and the Secrdtary of
the Navy made temporary appointments of "acting masters
and master's mates," which were confirmed by act of Congress of July 24, 1861, c. 13, 12 Stat. 272. By act of March 3,
1865, c. 124, 13 Stat. 539, their names were changed to that of
"mates," and the Secretary of the Navy was authorized to increase their pay and to rate them from seamen and ordinary seamen who had enlisted in the naval service for not less than twoyears. By the act of July 15, 1870, c. 294, 16 Stat. 321, 330,
they were formally recognized as a part of the naval forces,
and their pay was fixed at $900 when. at sea, $700 on shore

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

duty, and $500 on leave or waiting orders. These amounts
were raised in 1894, 28 Stat. 212. Act of August 1, c. 176.
By the Revised Statutes, which were intended to consolidate and codify all the prior enactments upon the subject,
the President was authorized to appoint (§ 1405) "as many
boatswains, gunners, sailmakers, and carpenters as may, in
his opinion, be necessary and proper," who (§ 1406) "shall be
known and shall be entered upon the Naval Register as warrant officers in the naval service of the United States," and
whose pay was specified in a separate paragraph of § 1556,
fixing the pay of the naval forces.
By § 1408 "mates may be rated, under authority of the
Secretary of the Navy, from seamen and ordinary seamen who
have enlisted in the naval service for not less than two
years." By § 1556 their pay was fixed at the rates provided
by the act of July 15, 1870, and by § 1410 "all officers not
holding commissions or warrants, or who are not entitled to
them, except such as are temporarily appointed to the duties
of a commissioned or warrant officer, and except secretaries
and clerks, shall be deemedpety-o.fficers, and shall be entitled
to obedience, in the execution of their offices, from persons
of inferior ratings." By § 1569 "the pay to be allowed to
petty officers, excepting mates" (whose pay was fixed by
§ 1556), "and the pay and bounty upon enlistment of seamen,
ordinary seamen, firemen, and coalheavers in the naval service, shall be fixed by the President," with the further provision, § 1579, that " no person not actually attached to and doing
duty on board a seagoing vessel, except the petty offlcers, sea-

men, and ordinary seamen attached to receiving ships, or to the
ordinary of a navy-yard, and midshipmen, shall be allowed a
ration."
From this summary of the Revised Statutes it appears
reasonably clear:
1. That boatswains, gunners, sailmakers, and carpenters
are warrant officers to be appointed by the President, and that
they are the only ones specifically mentioned as such.
2. That mates are officers not holding commissions or
warrants, and not entitled to them, but are petty officers pro-

UNITED STATES v. FULIER.
Opinion of the Court.

moted by the Secretary of the Navy from seamen of inferior
grades, who have enlisted for not less than two years, and
that they are distinguished from other petty officers only in
the fact that their pay is fixed by statute instead of by the
President. From this it would seem to. follow that, although
their pay is fixed by law, instead of by the President, they are
in other respects entitled to the emoluments of petty officers,
among which are rations.
The exception of mates from § 1569 merely indicates that
Congress, having already fixed their pay, such pay need not
be fixed by the President. But they are still within the exception of "petty officers, seamen, and ordinary seamen
attached to receiving ships," who are inferentially allowed a
ration by § 1579. The exception of mates from other petty
officers in § 1569 indicates that they are petty officers, and the
exception of petty officers, from those who are not entitled to
rations" under § 1579, indicates that as such they are entitled
to a ration.
We think there is no authority for saying that they are
temporarily appointed to the duties of a warrant officer.
While the words "acting thaster's mates," sometimes employed prior to the Revised Statutes, might indicate, by the
use of the word "acting," a person temporarily appointed
to the duties of a master's mate, officers .who are recognized
by law, and whose pay is fixed by a permanent statute, cannot be said to be temporarily appointed. The argument that
a "warrant" is defined to be "an instrument conferring
authority *upon persons, inferior to a commission," and that
mates must therefore be warrant officers, because they are
appointed by the Secretary of the Navy, proves, too much;
since all petty officers hold by some sort of designation from a
superior authority, and if a warrant be an instrument inferior
to a commission, this would make all petty officers warrant
officers. On the other hand, as, by § 1405, warrant officers
-are appointed by the President, it would seem to follow that,
if they held their appbintmnts from an inferior authority,
they were not to be considered as warrant officers. There is
also an implication to the same effect from the act of August-

