LEHIGH MINING AND MANT'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

327

Statement of the Case.

LEHIGH MINING AND MANIFACTURING COMPANY v. KELLY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TIM

WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 617. Submitted November 11, 1895. -Decded

December 16,1895.

It is established doctrine, to which the court adheres, that the'constitutional
privilege of a grantee or purchaser of property,- being a citizen of one
of the States, to invoke the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United
States for the protection of his rights as against a citizen. of another
State- the value of the matter in dispute being sufficient for the purpose
- cannot'be affected or impaired merely because of the motive that induced his grantor to convey, or his vendee to sell and deliver, the property, provided such conveyance or such sale and delivery was a real
transaction by which the title passed without the grantor or vendor
reserving or having any right or power to compel or require a reconveyance or return to him of the property in question.
Citizens of Virginia were in possession of lands in that State, claiming title,
to which also a corporation organized under the laws of Virginia had for
some years laid claim. In order to transfer the corporation's title and
claim to a citizen of another State, thus giving a Circuit Court of the
United States jurisdiction over an action to recover the lands,'the stockholders of the Virginia corporation organized themselves into a corporation under the laws of Pennsylvania, and the Virginia corporation then
conveyed the lands to the Penfisylvania corporation, and the latter corporation brought this action against the citizens of Virginia to recover
possession of the lands. No consideration passed for the transfer.
Both corporations still exist. Hleld, that these facts took this case out
of the operation of the established doctrine above stated and made of
the transaction a mere device to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court,
and that it was a fraud upon that court, as well as a wrong to the defendants.
THIS action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia by the Lehigh
Mining and Manufacturing Company, as a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth 6f Pennsylvania.
Its object was to recover from the defendants, who are citizens
of Virginia, the possession of certain lands within the territorial jurisdiction of that court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

T'he defendants pleaded not guilty of the trespass alleged,
and also filed two pleas, upon which the plaintiff took issue.
The first plea was that "the Virginia Coal and Iron Company is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
Virginia; that as such it has been for the last ten years claiming title to the lands of the defendant J. J. Kelly, Jr., described in the declaration in this case, and said defendants say
that, for the purpose of fraudulently imposing on the jurisdiction of this court, said Virginia Coal and Iron Company has
during the year 1893 attempted to organize, form, and create
under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania a corporation out
of its (the Virginia Coal and Iron Company's) own members,
stockholders, and officers, to whom it has fraudulently and
collusively conveyed the land in the declaration mentioned for
the purpose of enabling this plaintiff to institute this suit in
this United States court, and said defendants say that said
Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company is simply another
name for the Virginia Coal and Iron Company, composed of
the same parties and organized alone for the purpose of giving
jurisdiction of this case on [to] this court; wherefore defendants say that this suit is in fraud of the jurisdiction of this
court and should be abated."
The second plea was that "said plaintiff should not further
have or maintain said suit against them, because they say
there was no such legally organized corporation as the plaintiff
company at the date of the institution of this suit, and they
say that the real and substantial plaintiff, in this suit is the
Virginia Coal and Iron Company, which is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Virginia and a citizen
of Virginia. And said defendants further say that said Virginia Coal and Iron Company, for the purpose and with the
view of instituting and prosecuting this suit in the United
States court and of conferring an apparent jurisdiction on said
court, did, by prearrangement, fraud, and collusion, attempt
to organize said Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company
as a corporation of a foreign State, to take and hold the land
in the declaration mentioned, for the purpose of giving this
court jurisdiction of said suit; wherefore defendants say that

LEHIGH MIING AND MAR'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

329

Statement of the Case.

the said plaintiff has wrongfully and fraudulently imposed
itself on the jurisdiction of this court, has abused its process,
and wrongfully impleaded these defendants in this court.
Wherefore they pray judgment, etc., that this suit be abated
and dismissed, as brought in fraud of this court's jurisdiction."
The cause was submitted by the parties upon the two pleas
to the jurisdiction and upon a general replicatiqn to each plea,
as well as upon all agreed statement of facts.
The agreed statement of facts was as follows: "1. That the
land in controversy in this case was prior to March 1, 1893,
claimed by the Virginia Coal and Iron Company, and had been
claimed by said last-named company for some twelve years
prior to said date. 2. That said Virginia Coal and Iron Company is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
the State of Virginia, and is a citizen of Virginia. 3. That on
March 1, 1893, said Virginia Coal and Iron Company executed
and delivered a deed of bargain and sale to said Lehigh Mining
and Manufacturing Company, by which it conveyed all its"
right, title, and interest in and to the land in controversy to
said last namec company in fee simple. 4. That said Lehigh
Mining and Manufacturing Company is a corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania; that it was organized in February, 1893, prior to said
conveyance, and is and was at the date of commencement of
this action a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, and that it
was organized by the individual stockholders and officers of the
Virginia Coal and Iron Company. 5. That the purpose in
organizingsaid Lehigh Mining and 'ManufacturingCompany
and in making to it said conveyance was to give to this court
jurisdictionin this case, but that said conveyance passed to
said Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company all of the
right, title, and interest of said Virginia Coal and Iron Coinpany in and to said land, and that since said conveyance said
Virginia Coal and Iron Company has had no interest in said
land, and has not and never has had any interest in this suit,
and that it owns none of the stock of said Lehigh Mining and
Manufacturing Company, and has no interest therein whatever."

OCTOO3ER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It was also agreed that the two pleas should be tried by the
court, without a jury, upon the above statement of facts, with
the right in either party to object to any fact stated in it on
the ground of irrelevancy or incompetency.
The plaintiff, by counsel, objected and excepted to the
statement in the first part of the fifth clause of the foregoing
statement, viz., "that the purpose of organizing the Lehigh
Mining and Manufacturing Company and in making to it said
conveyance was to give to this court jurisdiction in this case,"
because the same was irrelevant and immaterial.
The Circuit Court, Judge Paul presiding, dismissed the
action for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. 64 Fed.
Rep. 401.
.Mr. R. A. Ayers, .Mr. 1?. C. Dale, Mr. E. H. Fulton, 1r.
A. L. Pridemore,-Mr. J. 1. White, and ir. J. F. Bullitt, Jr.,
for plaintiff in error.
Mir. F. S. Blair,and Mr. H. S. E Morrison for defendants
in error.
MR. JusTicE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Soma of the paragraphs of the agreed statement of facts
are so drawn as to leave in doubt the precise thought intended
to be expressed in them. But it is clear that the individual
stockholders and officers of the Virginia corporation, in February, 1893, organized the Pennsylvania corporation; that
imniediately thereafter, on the 1st day of March, 1893, the
lands in controversy, which the Virginia corporation had for
many years claimed to own, and which, during all that period,
were in the possession of and claimed by the present defendants, who are citizens of Virginia, were conveyed by it'in fee
simple to the Ponnsylvania corporation so organized; and
that the only object, for which the stockholders and officers
of the Virginia corporation organized the Pdnnsylvania corporation, and for which the above conveyance was made, was to

LEHIIGH I NING AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

331

Opinion of the Court.

create a case cognizable by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia. In order to
accomplish that object, the present action was. commenced on
the 2d day of April, 1893: .Although the parties have agreed
that the ab~ove conveyance passed "all of the right, title, and
interest" of the 'Virginia corporation to the corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, it is to be taken, upon
the present record, and in view of what the agreed statement
of facts contains, as well as of what it' omits tol disclose, that
the conveyance was made without any valuable consideration.;
that when it was made, the stockholders of the two corporations were identical; that the Virginia corporation still exists
with the same stockholders it had when the conveyance of
,Iarch 1; 1893, was made; and that, as soon as this litigation
is concluded, the Pennsylvania corporation, if it succeeds in
obtaining judgment against the defendants, can be required
by the stockholders of the Virginia corporation,being also its
own stockholders, to reconvey the lands in controversy to the
Virginia corporation without any consideration passing to the
Pennsylvania corporation.
Was the Circuit Court bound to take cognizance of this
action as one that involved a controversy between citizens of
different States within the meaning of the Constitution and
the acts. of Congress regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States? This question can be miore satisfactorily
answered after we shall have adverted to the principal cases
cited in argument: The importance of the question before us,
to say nothing of the ingenious and novel mode devised to
obtain an adjudication of the present controversy by a court
of the United States, justifies a reference to those cases.
The first case is that of .Maxwell's Lessee v. Levy, 2 Dall. 381,
decided in' the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Pennsylvania District. That was an action of ejectment.
The lessor of the plaintiff was a resident and citizen of Marylanld, the defendant being a resident and citizen of Pennsylvania. A bill of discovery was filed against the lessor of theplaintiff, in which it was alleged that the conveyance of the
premises in controversy was made by one Morris, a citizen of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania, for no other purpose than to give jurisdiction
to the Circuit Court. The answer to that bill admitted that
"the lessor of the plaintiff had given no considerationfor the
conveyance; that his name had been used by way only of
accommodation to iMorris." Upon a rule to show cause why
the action of ejectment should not be stricken from the docket,
Mr. Justice Iredell held that the conveyance was "colorable
and collusive;, and, therefore, incapable of laying a foundation
for the jurisdiction of the court." The full opinion is reported
in 4 Dall. 330.
In HYurst's essee v. _McYeil, 1 Wash. C. 0. 70, 82- which
Was ejeotment in a Circuit Court of the United States, the
parties being alleged to be citizens of different States -one
of the questions was as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice Washington said: "By the deed of the 15th January, 1714, from Timothy Hurst, Charles, Thomas, and John
became entitled to the land therein conveyed, as tenants in
common. The deed from Charles Hurst to Biddle, and the
reconveyance to Charles, vested the legal estate in this land
in Charles, but John and Thomas, it is admitted, were not
thereby divested of their rights in equity, though they might
be in law. Now the deed to John Hurst was meant to be a
real deed, or was merely fictitious, and intended to enable
John Hurst to sue in this court. If the former, it was void;
as the assent of the grantee was not given at the time, nor has
it ever been since given; for though the assent of a grantee
to a deed, clearly for his benefit, may be presumed; yet, if a
consideration is to be paid, as in this, (21000 is mentioned,)
the assent must be proved, or nothing passes by the deed. If
it was not meant as a real conveyance, then it may operate to
pass to John Htirst a legal title to his own third, which had
become vested in Charles, but to which John still retained an
equitable title. As to anything more, the deed cannot be
supported; because, as to the rights of Charles and Thomas
Hurst and John Baron, they remain unaffected by the deed to
John; and being merely afictitious thing, to givejurisdictionto
this court, it will not receive our countenance."
McDonald v. Bmalley, 1 Pet. 620, 624, was a suit in equity

LEHIGH MINING AND MMA'F'G CO. v. KELLY. 333
Opinion of the Court.

in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Ohio to obtain a conveyance of a tract of land situated in.that
State -the plaintiff McDonald being a citizen of Alabama
and deriving title under one McArthur, a citizen of Ohio, and
the defendants, Smalley and others, being citizens of Ohio.
The Circuit Court dismissed the. case for want of jurisdiction and the judgment was reversed by this court. Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking for the court, said: "This testimony, which is all that was laid before the couit, shows, we
think, a sale and conveyance to the plaintiff, which was Uniding on both parties. McDonald could not have maintained an
action for his debt, nor McArthur a suit for his land. His
title to it was extinguished, and the consideration was received. The motives which induced him to make the contract, whether justifiable or censurable, can have no influence
on its validity. They were such as had sufficient influence
with himself, and he had a right to act upon them. A
court cannot enter into them when deciding on its jurisdiction. The conveyance appears to be a 'eal transaction, and
the real as well as nominal parties to the suit are citizens of
different States. . . . The case depends, we think, on the
question, whether the transaction between McArthur and
McDonald was real or fictitious; and we perceive no reason
to doubt its-reality, whether the deed be considered as absolute or as a mortgage."
In Smith v. -ernoehen, 7 How. 198, 216, which Was ejectment brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Alabama, the plaintiff, a citizen of
New York, was the assignee for value of a mortgage upon
the premises executed by the owner in fee to an Alabama
corporation to secure a sum of money., It was charged that
the motive of the corporation in making the assignment was
to obtain a decision of the Federal courts upon certain matters
in dispute between it and the owner in fee of the premises.
One of the questions to be determined was whether any title
passed to the plaintiff which the Circuit Court could enforce,
if it appeared that the transfer of the mortgage was for the
purpose of giving jurisdiction to that court and to enable the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

company to prosecute its claim therein, and if it also appeared
that the plaintiff was privy to such purpose when he took
the assignment. This court, speaking by Mr. Sustice Nelson,
said: "But the charge, [to the jury] we think, may also be
sustained upon the ground on which it was placed by the
court below. For, even assuming that both parties concurred
in the motive alleged, the assignment of the mortgage, having
been properly executed and founded zpon a valuable consid-

eration, passed the title and interest of the company to the
plaintiff. The motive imputed could not affect the validity
of the conveyance. This was so held in lfcDonald v. Smalley,
1 Pet. 620. The suit would be free from objection in the
state courts. And the only ground upon which it can be
made effectual here is, that the transaction between the company and the plaintiff was fictitious and not real; and the
suit still, in contemplation of law, between the original parties
to the mortgage. The question, therefore, is one of proper
parties to give jurisdiction to the Federal courts; not of title
in the plaintiff. That would be a question on the merits, to
decide which the jurisdiction must first be admitted. The
true and only ground of objection in all these cases is, that
the assignor, or grantor, as the case may be, is the real party
in the suit, and the plaintiff on the record but nominal and
colorable, his name being used merelyfor the purpose ofjuris-

diction. The suit is then in fact a controversy between the
former and the defendants, notwithstanding the conveyance;
and if both parties are citizens of the same State, jurisdiction
of course cannot be upheld. 1 Pet. 625; 2 Dall. 381; 4 Dall.
330; 1 Wash. 0. 0. 70, 80; 2 Sumner, 251.'
The next case is Jones v. League, 18 How. 76, 81. The
plaintiff, League, claimed to be a citizen of Maryland. The
defendants were citizens of Texas. The action, which was
trespass to try title to land, was brought in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Texas. This
court, speaking by Mr. Tustice McLean, said: "In this case
jurisdiction is claimed by the citizenship of the parties. The
plaintiff avers that he is a citizen of Maryland, and- that the
defendants are citizens of Texas. In one of the pleas, it is

LEHIGH AMINING AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

335

Opinion of the Court.

averred that the plaintiff lived in Texas twelve years and upwards, and that, for the purpose of bringing this suit, he went
to the State of Maryland and was absent from Texas about
four months. The change of citizenship, even for the purpose of bringing a suit in the Federal court, must be with
the bonafide intention of becoming a-citizen of. the-State to
which the party removes. Nothing short of this can give
him a right to sue in the Federal courts, held in the State
from whence he removed. If League was not a citizen of
Maryland, his short absence in that State, without a bonaj&e
intention of changing his citizenship, could give him no right
to prosecute this suit. But it very clearly appears from the
deed of conveyance to the plaintiff, by Power, that it was only
colorable, as the suit was to be p;'osecutedfor the leneftt of the
grantor,and the one-third of the lands to be received by the
plaintiff was in consideration that he should pay one-third of
the costs, and superintend the prosecution of the suit. The
owner of a tract of land may convey it in order that the title
may be tried in the Federal courts, but the conveyance must
be made bonafide, so that the prosecution of the suit shall not
be for his benefit. The judgment of the District Court is
reversed, for want of jurisdiction in that court."
In Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 280, 288, which was
a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for
Maryland for a partition of real estate and for an account of
rents and profits, etc., it appeared that certain persons, citizens
of the District of Columbia, conveyed their interest in the
property to a citizen of Maryland. It was admitted that the
conveyance was made for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction, was without consideration, and that the grantee, on
the request of the grators,would reconvey to the latter. Mr.
Justice Miller, speaking for the court, said: "If the conveyance by the Ridgelys of the District to S. C. Ridgely of Maryland had really transferred the interest of the former to the
latter, although made for the avowed purpose .of enabling the
court to entertain jurisdiction of the case, it would'have
accomplished that purpose. McDonald v. Smalley, and several
cases since, have well established this rule. But in point of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

fact that conveyance did not transfer the real interest of
the grantors.

It was made without consideration, with a

distinct understanding that the grantors retained all their
real interest, and that the deed was to have no other effect
than to give jurisdiction to the court. And it is now equally
well settled, that the court will not, under such circumstances,
give effect to what is a fraud upon the court, and is nothing
more."
None of these cases sustain the contention of the plaintiffs.
All of them concur in holding that the privilege of a grantee
or purchaser of property, being a citizen of one of the States,
to invoke the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United
States for the protection of his rights as against a citizen of
another State- the value of the matter in dispute being
sufficient for the purpose- cannot be affected or impaired
merely because of the motive that induced his grantor to convey, or his vendee to sell and deliver, the property, provided
such conveyance or such sale and delivery was a real transaction by which the title passed without the grantor or vendor
reserving or having any right or power to compel or require a
reconveyance or return to him of the property in question.
We adhere to that doctrine.
In harmony with the principles announced in former cases,
we hold that the Circuit Court properly dismissed this action.
The conveyance to the Pennsylvania corporation was without
any valuable consideration. It was a conveyance by one corporation to another corporation - the grantor representing
certain stockholders, entitled collectively or as one body to
do business under the name of the Virginia Coal and Iron
Company, while the grantee represented the same stockholders,
entitled collectively or as one body to do business under the
name of the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company.
It is true that the technical legal title to the lands incontroversy is, for the time, in the Pennsylvania corporation. It is
also true that there was no formal agreement upon the part
of that corporation "as an artificial being, invisible, intangible, and existing only in contemplation of law," that the title
should. ever be reconveyed to the Virginia corporation. But

LEHIGH NMINING. AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

$37

Opinion of the Court.

when the inquiry involves the jurisdiction of a Federal court
-the presumption in every stage of a cause being that it is
without the jurisdiction of a court of the United States, unless
the contrary appears from the record, Gracev. American Centra Insur'ance Co., 109 U. S. 278,

83, Bars v. Preston, 111

U. S. 252, 255- We cannot shut our. eyes to the fact that
there exists what should be deemed an equivalent to such an
agreement, namely, the right and power of those who are
stockholders of each corporation to eompel the one holding the
legal title to convey, without a valuable consideration, such
title to the other corporation. In other words, although the
Virginia corporation, as such, holds -no stock in the Pennsylvania corporation, the latter corporation holds the legal title,
subject at any time to be divested of it by the action of the
stockholders of the grantor corporation who are also its stockholders. The stockholders of the Virginia corporation -the
original promoters. of the present scheme, and, presumably,
when a question of the jurisdiction of a court of the United
States is involved, citizens of Virginia -in order to procure a
determination of the controversy between that corporation
and the defendant citizens of Virginia,.in re pect of the lands
in'that Commonwealth, which are here in dispute, assumed,
as a body, the mask of a Pennsylvania corporation for the
purpose, and the purpose only, of invoking the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States, retaining the power,
in'their discretion, and after all danger of. defeating the
jurisdiction of the Federal court shall have passed, to throw
off that mask and reappear under the original form of a Virginia .corporation -their right, in the meantime, to participate in the management of the general affairs of the latter
corporation not having been impaired by the conveyance to
the Pennsylvania corporation. And all this may be done, if
the position of the plaintiffs be correct, without any consideration passing between the two corporations.
It is not decisive of the present inquiry that under the,
adjudications of this court the stockholders of the Pennsylvania corporation -the question being one of jurisdiction must be conclusively presumed to be citizens of that CommonvOL. cLx-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

wealth. Nor is it material, if such be the fact, that the
Pennsylvania corporation could not have been legally organized, under the laws of that Commonwealth, in February, 1893,.
unless some of the subscribers to its charter were then citizens of Pennsylvania. We cannot ignore the peculiar circumstances which distinguish the present case from all others that
have been before this court. The stockholders who organized
the Pennsylvania corporation were, it is agreed, the same
individuals who, at the time, were the stockholders of the Virginia corporation. And under the rule of decision adverted
to, the stockholders of the Virginia corporation, just before
they organized the Pennsylvania corporation as well as when
the Virginia corporation conveyed the legal title, were presumably citizens of Virginia. If the rule which has been invoked
be regarded as controlling in the present case, the result,
curiously enough, will be that immediatelyprior to February,
1893-before the Pennsylvania corporation was organized the stockholders of the Virginia corporation were, presumably,
citizens of Virginia; that, a few days thereafter, in February,
1893, when they organized the Pennsylvania corporation, the
same stockholders became, presumably, citizens of Pennsylvania; and that, on the 1st day of March, 1893, at the time
the Virginia corporation conveyed to the Pennsylvania corporation, the same persons were presumably citizens, at the
same moment of time, of both Virginia and Pennsylvania.
It is clear that the record justifies the assumption that there
was no valuable consideration for the conveyance to the
Pennsylvania corporation. Why should a valuable consideration have passed at all, when the stockholders of the grantor
corporation and the stockholders of the grantee corporation
were, at the time of the conveyance, the same individuals?
Could it be expected that those stockholders, acting as one
body, under the name of the Virginia Coal and Iron Company,
would take money out of one pocket for the purpose of putting
it into another pocket which they had and used only while
acting under the name of the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company? A valuable consideration cannot be presumed,
merely because the agreed statement of facts recites that the

LEHIGH MEINI G AP 9A"I'FG CO. v. KELLY.

.339

Opinion of the Court.

Virginia corporation executed and delivered a deed of "bargain and sale" conveying all its right, title, and interest to the
Pennsylvahia corpotation. In view of the admitted facts,
that recital must be taken as meaning nothing more than that
the deed was, in form, one of bargain and sale, conveying the
technical legal title. The deed cannot be regarded even as a
deed of gift, unless we suppose*that a body of stockholder-s,
acting under one corporate name, solemnly made a gift of
property to themselves adting under another corporate name.
When it is remembered that the plaintiff in erri'i stipulates
that all that was done had for its sole object to create a case
cognizable in the Federal court, which would otherwise have
been cognizable only in a court of Virginia,it is not difficult
to-understand why the agreed statement of facts failed to state,
in terms, that a yaluable consideration was paid by the grantee
corporation.
The arrangement by which, without any valuable consideration, the stockholders of the Virginia corporation organized a
Pennsylvantia corporation and conveyed these lands to the new
corporation for the express purpose - and no otherpupose is
stated or suggested - of creating a case for the Federal court,
must be regarded as a mere device to give jurisdiction to a
Circuit Court of the United States'and as being, in law, a fraud
upon that court, as well as a wrong to the defendants. Such
a device cannot receive our sanction. The court below properly declined to take cognizance of the case.
This conclusion is a necessary ,result of the cases arising
before the passage of the act of 3ffarch 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat.
470. The fifth section of that act provides that if, in any suit
commenced in a Circuit Court, it shall appear to the satisfac-tion of that court, at any time after such suit is brought, that
it "does not really 'and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
or that the parties have been improperly or collusively made
or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the.puwose of
creating a case cognizable . . . under this act, the said
Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit." This part of' the act of 1875 was not super-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

seded by the act of 1887, amended in 1888. 25 Stat. 434-,
c. 866. Its scope and effect were determined in Williams v.
Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209, 211, and _Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S.
315. In the first of those cases the court, referring to the act
of 1875, said: "In extending a long way the jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States, Congress was specially careful
to guard against the consequences of collusive transfers to
make parties, and imposed the duty en the court, on its own
motion, without waiting for the parties, to stop all further iroceedings and dismiss the suit the moment anything of the kind
appeared. This was for the protection of the court as well as
parties against frauds upon its jurisdiction."
The organization of the Pennsylvania corporation and the
conveyance to it by the Virginia corporation, for the sole purpose of creating a case cognizable by the Circuit Court of the
United States is, in principle, somewhat like a removal from
one State to another with a view.only of invoking the jurisdiction of the Federal court. In _Morris v. Gilmer, just cited, the
court said: "Upon the evidence in this record, we cannot
resist the conviction that the plaintiff had no purpose to acquire a domicil or settled home in Tennessee, and that his sole
object in removing to that State was to place himself in a situation to invoke the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States. He went to Tennessee without any present
intention to remain there permanently or for an indefinite time,
but with a present intention to return to Alabama as soon as
he could do so without defeating the jurisdiction of the Federal
court to determine his new suit. He was, therefore, a mere
sojourner in the former State when this suit was brought. He
returned to Alabama almost immediately after giving his
deposition. The case comes within the principle announced
in Butler v. Farnsworth,4 Wash. C. C. 101, 103, where Mr.
Justice Washington said: ' If the removal be for the purpose
of committing afraud upon the law, and to enable the party
to avail himself. of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
and that fact be made out by his acts, the court must pronounce that his removal was not with a bona fide intention
of changing his domicil, however frequent and publi6 his

LEHIGH MINII{G AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

341

Opinion of the Court.

declarations to the contrary may have been."' 129 U. S.
328, 329.
Other cases in this court show the object and scope of the
above provision in the act of 1875. In Farmington v. Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138, 139, 145 - which was a suit upon coupons
of bonds issued in the name of Farmington, a municipal corporation of Maine, the bonds themselves being owned by
citizens of that State- it appeared that the bonds were purchased and held by such citizens while a suit was pending in
one of the courts of -Maine to test their validity. The state
court decided that they were void and inoperative. After
that decision coupons of the same amount, gathered up and
held by citizens of Maine, were transferred, by their agent, to
Pillsbury, a citizen of -Massachusetts,under an arrangement by
which he gave his promissory note for $500,payable in two
years from date, with interest, and agreed, "as a further consideration for said coupons," that if he succeeded in collecting
the full amount thereof he would pay the agent, as soon as the
money was gotten from the corporation, fifty per cent of the
net amount collected above the $500. Pillsbury then brought
his suit on these coupons, he being a citizen of Massachusetts,
against the town of Farmington, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of.Maine. Here was, in form, a
sale and delivery of coupons for a valuable consideration. This
court regarded the whole transaction as a sham, and speaking
by Chief Justice Waite, said: "It is a suit for the benefit of
the owners of the bonds. They are to receive from the plaintiff one half of the net proceeds of the case they have created
by their transfer of the coupons gathered together for that
purpose. The suit is their own in reality, though they have
agreed that' the plaintiff may retain one half of what he collects for the use of his name and his trouble in collecting. It
is true the transaction is called a purchase in the papers that
were executed, and that the plaintiff gave his note for $500,
but the time for payment was put off for two years, when it
was, no doubt, supposed the result of the suit would be known.
_No money waspaid,and as the note was not negotiable, it is
clear the partiesintended to keep the control of the whole mat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ter in their own hands, so that if the plaintiff failed to recover
the money he could be released from his promise to pay."
The court, adopting the language of Mr. Justice Field, in
Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537, 541, adjudged the transfer of
the coupons to be "a mere contrivance, a pretence, the result of
a collusive arrangement to create" in favor of the plaintiff "a
fictitious ground of Federal jurisdiction."
Referring to the
above provision in the act of 1875, the court, after declaring it
to be a salutory one, said that "it was intended to promote the
ends of justice, and is equivalent to an express enactment by
Congress that the Circuit Courts shall not have jurisdiction of
suits which do not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy of which they have cognizance, nor of suits
in which the parties have been improperly or collusively made
or joined for the yurpose of creating a case cognizale under
the act." p. 144.
These principles were reaffirmed in Little v. Giles, 118 U. S.
596, 603, in which Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court,
said that under the act of 1875, where the interest of the
nominal party is "simulated and collusive, and createdfor the
very pu?_wose of giving jurisdiction,the court should not hesitate to apply the wholesome provisions of the law."
The case before us is one that Congress intended to exclude
•rom the cognizance of a court of the United States. The
Pennsylvania corporation neither paid nor assumed to pay
anything for the property in dispute, and was invested with
the technical legal title for the purpose only of bringing a suit
in the Federal court. As we have said, that corporation may
be required by those who are stockholders of its grantor, and
who are also its own stockholders, at any time, and without
receiving therefor any consideration whatever, to plaee the title
where it was when the plan was formed to wrest the judicial determination of the present controversy from the courts
of the State in which the land lies. It should be regarded as
a case of an improper and collusive making of parties for the
purpose of creating a case cognizable in the Circuit Court. If
this action were not declared collusive, within the meaning of
the act of 1875, then the provision making it the duty of the

LEIBrGH MINING AND AU1INF'G CO. v. KELLY.

343

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

Circuit Court to dismiss a suit, ascertained at any time to be
one in which parties have been improperly or collusively made
or joined, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by that
court, would become of no practical value, and the dockets of
the Circuit Courts of the United States will be crowded with
suits of which neither the framers of the Constitution nor
Congress ever intended they should take cognizance.
The judgment is

.4firmed.

MR. JUSTIcE SHIRAS, with whom concurred MR. JusTicE
Fmm and MR.JusTIcE BRowN, dissenting.
In April, 1893, the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company, asserting itself to be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and a citizen
and resident of said State, brought, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Virginia, an action
of ejectment for a tract of land in Wise County, State of Virginia., and within the jurisdiction of that court, against J. X.
Kelly, James C. Hubbard, and others, all of whom were averred
to be citizens of the State of Virginia, and residents of the
Western District thereof.
The defendants filed two special pleas which were traversed
by replications. The record shows that subsequently the
cause was submitted to the court on the issues thus made and
with an agreed statement of facts, and that the court, on May
30, 1893, sustained the pleas, found that it had no jurisdiction
of the case, and dismissed the action for want of jurisdiction,
but without prejudice. Upon exceptions duly taken, this
judgment was brought to this court.
It is admitted, in the agreed statement of facts, that the
Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company was, in February, 1893, duly organized as a corporation of the State of
Pennsylvania, and was existing as such at the time of the
commencement of this action.
The constitution of Pennsylvania, of which we take judicial
notice, provides in the seventh section of article third that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

a corporation cannot be created by any local or special law,
and we are thus given to know that the company in question
was organized under a general law of the State. On resorting
to that law, being khe act of April 29, 1874, (Pruden's Digest,
vol. 1, page 335,) and of the contents of which we also take
judicial notice, we find it provided that to become duly organized as a mining and manufacturing company the charter
must be subscribed by five or more persons, three of whom at
least must be citizens of Pennsylvania; that the certificate
must set forth that ten per centum of the capital stock has
been paid in cash to the treasurer of the intended corporation;
and these facts as to citizenship and the payment of the
requisite proportion of the capital in cash must be sworn to by
at least three of the subscribers. Upon such proof the governor
is authorized to direct letters patent to be issued, but no corporation shall go into operation without first having the name
of the company, the date of the incorporation, the place of
business, the amount of capital paid in, and the names of the
president and treasurer registered in the office of the auditor
general of the State. While, therefore, it is stated in the
agreed statement of facts that the said company was organized
by the individual stockholders and the officers of the Virginia
Coal and Iron Company, su~ch statement is by no means inconsistent with the other statement that the Lehigh Mining and
Manufacturing Company was duly organized, and therefore
included in its membership citizens of Pennsylvania.
The presumption, therefore, must be that the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company was, in all respects, a corporation regularly and legally organized, and the concession
of the agreed statement is that, as matter offact, at least three
of its corporators are citizens of the State of Pennsylvania.
As matter of law, as we shall presently see, all of its corporators are to be indisputably deemed, for the purpose of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court of the United States, citizens of
that State.
The record, therefore, discloses that a regularly organized
body corporate of the State of Pennsylvania, seeking to assert
its title to a tract of land situated in Wise County, Virginia,

LEHIGH

I

ING AND XYAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

345

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

as against certain citizens of Virginia in possession of said
tract, and having brought an action of law in the Circuit Court
of the United States, has been dismissed from that court for
alleged want of jurisdiction. '
Such want of jurisdiction is not apparent on the face of the
record, apart from the allegations contained in the special
pleas. That the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction of a dispute about the title to land between a corporation of another State and citizens of the. State where the
land is situated is, of course, now settled beyond controversy.
After a long dispute, the history of which we need not here
follow, it was finally decided in Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Letson, 2 How. 497, that ".a corporation created by
and transacting business in a State, is to be deemed an inhabitant of the State, capable of being treated as a citizen, for all
purposes of suing and being sued, and an averment of the
facts of its creation and the place of transacting business is
sufficient to give the Circuit Courts jurisdiction." Accordingly,
in that case, a plea to the jurisdiction, alleging that some of
the corporators of the defendant company, which was a corporation of the State of South Carolina, were citizens of New
York, of which latter State the plaintiff was a citizen, was on
demurrer overruled. In Ohio and MississipyiRailroad Co. i
Wheeler, 1 Black, 286, 296, the court, speaking by Chief Justice
Taney, said: "Where a corporation is created by the laws of
a State, the legal presumption is that its members are citizens
of the State in which alone the corporate body has a legal
existence; and that a suit by or against a corporation, in its
corporate name, must be presumed to be a suit by or against
citizens of the State which created the corporate body; and
that no averment or evidence to the contrary is admissihZe for
the purpose of withdrawing the suit from the jurisdiction of
a court of the United States. . . . After these successive
decisions, the law upon this subject must be regarded as settled, and a suit by or against a corporation in its corporate
name as a suit by or against citizens of the State which
created it."
If these cases correctly state the law, was it competent for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, J3.

the court below, upon the facts agreed upon, to disregard the
corporate character of the plaintiff company, and to find that
it was composed, in a jurisdictional sense, of citizens of Virginia? It is true that the defendants, in their second plea,
alleged that "there was no such legally organized corporation
as the plaintiff company at the date of the institution of this
suit." But, as we have seen, the statement of facts, agreed
upon after the pleas were filed, states that the plaintiff company
was a duly organized corporation of tho State of Pennsylvania,
and was existing as such at the time of the bringing of the
suit.
Assuming, then, as we have a right to do, that the corporate existence of the plaintiff company is conceded, and that,
under the authorities, the members of the company are to be
deemed citizens of the State of Pennsylvania, and that no
averment or evidence to the contrary is admissible for the purpose of withdrawing the suit from the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, were there any other facts which justified the
action of the court below in dismissing the action for want
of jurisdiction ?
It is said that, because it is conceded in the agreed statement of facts, that the land in controversy had been claimed
by the Virginia Coal and Iron Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Virginia, and that said
company had executed and delivered a deed of bargain and
sale to the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company, by
which it conveyed all its right, title, and interest in and to the
land in controversy to the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing
Company in fee simple, and because it is admitted that the
Pennsylvania company was- organized by the individual stockholders and officers of the Virginia company, and that the
purpose in organizing said Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing
Company and in making to it said conveyance was to give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction in the case, the legal effect of such
a state of facts would constitute a fraud upon the court, and
would justify it in dismissing the suit.
It is difficult to see, in the first place, how this could be a
caseof fraud. The facts were conceded, not concealed, nor

LEHIGH MMNIG AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

347

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, TJ.

falsely stated. It would be one thing to say that an acknowl"
edged state of facts failed to confer jurisdiction; another
thing to say that such acknowledged state of facts, though
formally conferring jurisdiction, constituted fraud on the
court, not because untrue and pretended, and intended to
deprive a court of jurisdiction, but because intended to bring
a legal cause of action within its jurisdiction. We have seen
that, ex necessitate and as a matter of fact, there were citizens
of Pennsylvania who had, as members of a corporation of
that State, an interest in the subject-matter of the suit; and
we have seen that, by a well settled proposition of law, the
Pennsylvania company must, for jurisdictional purposes, be
indisputably deemed to be wholly composed of citizens of the
State that created it. How, then, in the absence of misstatement or suppression of facts, can it be said that the Pennsylvania company was guilty of any fraud in invoking the jurisdiction
of the Federal court?
I submit that the true question, under the pleadings and
statement of facts, was whether the transaction, whereby
title to the land in dispute was granted and conveyed by the
Virginia Company to the Pennsylvania company, was an
actual one, was really what it purported to be. If the conveyance by the Virginia company really and intentionally
conferred its title on the Pennsylvania company, so that the
latter company could legally assert its title against the parties
in possession in a state court, no reason existed why the same
cause of action might not be asserted in a Federal court; that,
if the transaction were an actual one, and the conveyance one
intended to vest an absolute .title, unqualified by any trust,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court validly attached has been
frequently declared, even if the puipose was to make a case
cognizable by the Federal court.
McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet. 620, 623, was a case where a
citizen of Ohio, under the apprehension that his title to lands
in that State could not be maintained in the state court, and
being indebted to a citizen of Alabama, offered to sell and
convey to him the land in payment of the debt, stating in the
letter by which the offer was made that the title would most
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

probably be maintained in the courts of the United States,
but would fail in the courts of the State. The Alabama
citizen accepted the conveyance, and afterwards gave to a
third party his bond to make a quitclaim title to the land, on
condition of receiving $1000. The Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, in which the grantee filed, as
a citizen of Alabama, a bill in equity, held that, upon the
above state of facts, the court had no jurisdiction to entertain
the suit. But this court held otherwise and reversed the judgment. Chief Justice MNarshall, for the court, said:
"It has not been alleged, and certainly cannot be alleged,
that a citizen of one State, having title to lands in another, is
disabled from suing for those lands in the courts of the United
States by the fact that he derives his title from a citizen of
the State in which the lands lie. Consequently, the single
inquiry must be, whether the conveyance from McArthur to
McDonald was real or fictitious. . . . This testimony
. . . shows a sale and conveyance to the plaintiff, which
was binding on both parties. . . . [McArthur's] title was

extinguished, and the consideration was received. The motives
which induced him to make the contract, whether justifiable
or censurable, can have no influence on its validity. They
were such as had sufficient influence with himself, and he had
a right to act upon them. A court cannot enter into them
when deciding on its jurisdiction. The conveyance appears
to be a real transaction, and the real as well as nominal
parties to the suit are citizens of different States. The only
part of the testimony which can inspire doubt, respecting its
being an absolute sale, is the admission that the plaintiff gave
his bond to a third party for a quitclaim title to the land, on
paying him $1100. We are not informed who this third
party was, nor do we suppose it to be material. The title of
MeArthur was vested in the plaintiff, and did not pass out of
him by this bond. A suspicion may exist that it was for
McArthur. The court cannot act upon this suspicion. But
suppose the fact to be averred, what influence could it have
upon the jurisdiction of the court ? It would convert the conveyance, which on its face appears to be absolute, into a

LEHIGH M

=INIG AND M"'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

349

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

mortgage. But this would not affect the question. In a
contest between the mortgagor and mortgagee, being citizens
of different States, it cannot be doubted that an ejectment, or
a bill to foreclose, may be brought by the mortgagee, residing
in a different State, in a court of the United States. Why
then may he not sustain a suit in the same court against any
other person being a citizen of the same State with the mortgagor? We can perceive no reason why he should not. The
case depends, we think, on the question whether the transaction between McArthur and McDonald was real or fictitious;
and we perceive no reason to doubt its reality, whether the
deed be considered as absolute or as a mortgage."
In Smith v. Eei'nochen, 7 How. 198, 216, where a mortgagee,
a citizen of Alabama, assigned the mortgage to a citizen of
New York, both parties concurring in the motive to have the
question involved passed upon by a Federal court, it was held
that "the motive imputed could not affect the validity of the
conveyance. This was so held in McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet.
120. The suit would be free from objection in the state
courts; and the only ground upon which it can be made
effectual here is that the transaction between the company
and plaintiff was fictitious and not real; and the suit still, in
contemplation of lawv, between the original parties to the
mortgage. The question, therefore, is one of proper parties
to give jurisdiction to the Federal courts, not of title in the
plaintiff. That would be a question on the merits, to decide
which the jurisdiction must first be admitted. The true and
only ground of objection in all these cases is, that the assignor,
or the grantor, as the case may be, is the real party in the
suit, and the plaintiff on the record but nominal and colorable, his name being used merely for the purpose of jurisdiction."
So, in Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 288, the court
said : "If the conveyance by the Ridgelys of the District to
S. C. Ridgely, of Maryland, had really transferred the interest of the former to the latter, although made for the
avowed purpose of enabling the court to entertainjuridictiorm
of the case, it would have accomplished that purpose. Ai-

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

Donald v. Smalley (1 Pet. 620) and several cases since have
well established this rule."
If, then, anything can be regarded as settled, it is that the
motive or _purpose of securing a right of action in a Federal
court by a conveyance or assignment will not defeat the
jurisdiction, if the conveyance or assignment be real and not
fictitious.
It, therefore, follows, in the present case, that the concession in the agreed statement of facts, that the purpose was to
g.ive jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, will not defeat that
jurisdiction unless it appears that the conveyance was not real
but fictitious. This presents a question of fact. Stated in
direct terms, the question is this: Given a Pbnnsylvania corporation, indisputably composed of citizens of that State, and
a conveyancein fee simple to such company of a tract of land,
situated in the State of Virginia, by a corporation of that
State, the land being in possession of citizens of the latter
State, was this apparent jurisdiction defeated by the admitted
facts? It has been established, by the cases cited, that the
mere purpose or intention to put the claim into an owner who
would be entitled to go into a Federal court would not be
objectionable if the conveyance were an actual one, and where
the interest asserted belonged wholly to the plaintiff.
Hence, the only matter now to determine is, what was th6
character of the conveyance in the present case? It was, in
form, a deed of bargain and sale, purporting to convey a fee
simple. It is admitted in the agreed statement of facts that
"said conveyance passed to said Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing Company all the right,title, and interest of said Virginia
Coal and Iron company in and to said land, and that since said
conveyance said Virginia Coal and Iron Com2any has had no
interest in said land, and has not and never has had any
interest in that suit, and that it owns none of the stock of said
lehigh tining and ffanufacturing Company, and has no
interest therein whatsoever."
It is contended; in the opinion of the majority, that "it
appears, in view of what the agreed statement of facts contains, as well as what it omits to disclose, that the conveyance

LEHIGH MINING AND N"'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

351

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

was without any valuable consideration, and that, as soon as
this litigation is concluded, the Pennsylvania corporation, if it
succeeded in obtaining judgment against the defendants, can
be required by the stockholders of the Virginia corporation,
being also stockholders of the Pennsylvania corporation, to
reconvey the land in controversy to the Virginia corporation."
This contention, and the fate of the case turns upon it, can
be readily met. It assumes two facts, neither of which is
found in the recbrd, and both of which, if found, would be
immaterial. First, it is said that the conveyance was without
any valuable consideration. But it is distinctly admitted that
the Virginia company "executed and delivered a deed of.
bargain and sale to the Lehigh Mining and Manufacturing
Company, by which it conveyed all its right, title, and interest
in the land in controversy in fee simple." It is not found that
no consideration, was given, and in the absence of such a finding the presumption would be that a deed of conveyance
under seal, and granting an estate in fee simple, implies a
consideration. But it is unnecessary to consider this, because
it is wholly immaterial whether the grantee paid a consideration or not. The deed, even if it were a deed of gift, was
executed and delivered, and an executed gift is irrevocable.
Nor does it concern the defendants whether the grant by deed
was or was not for a valuable consideration.
This very question came up in the case of De Eaveaga v.
Williams, 5 Sawyer, 573, 574, in the Circuit Court of the
_District of California, and where it was urged that no consideration was ever paid, and that the deed was executed to
enable the suit to be brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States. But the court said, by Mr. Justice Field:
"There is no doubt that the sole object of the deed to the
complainant was to give jurisdiction, and that the grantor has
borne and still bears the expenses of the suit. But neither of
these facts renders the deed inoperative to transfer the title.
The defendants are not in a position to question the right of
the grantor to give away the property, if he chooses so to do.
And the court will not, at the suggestion of a stranger to the
title, inquire into the motives which induced the grantor to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Skiras, Field, Brown, JJ.

part with his interest. It is sufficient that the instrument
executed is valid in law, and that the grantee is of the class
entitled under the laws of Congress to proceed in the Federal
courts for the protection of his rights. It is only when the
conveyance is executed to give the court jurisdiction, and is
accompanied with an agreement to retransfer the property at
the request of the grantor upon the termination of the litigation, that the proceeding will be treated as a fraud upon the
court. . . . Here there was no such agreement, and it
will be optional with the complainant to retransfer or to
retain the property. He is by the deed the absolute owner
of the interest conveyed, and can only be deprived of it by
his own will, and upon such considerations as he may choose
to exact."
The only operation that could be given to the absence of
proof of an actual consideration would be to create a suspicion
of a secret trust. But this is negatived in the present case, by
the admission that a deed in fee simple was executed and
delivered, and that by it the entire title, interest, and right of
the grantor company passed to the Pennsylvania corporation,
and that "since said conveyance said Virginia Coal and Iron
Company has had no interest in said land, and has not and
never has had any interest in this suit."
It is admitted, in the opinion of the majority, that "the
legal title to the lands in controversy is in the Pennsylvania
corporation, and that there was no formal agreement or unde'rstanding upon its part that the. title shall ever be reconveyed
to the Virginia corporation." But it is said that "there exists
what should be deemed an equivalent to such an agreement,
namely, the right and power of those who are stockholders of
each corporation to compel the one holding the legal title to
convey, without a valuable consideration, that title to the other
corporation." This seems to me to be a strained conjecture.
Stock in a corporation is continually changing hands, and to
suppose that, at the end of a pending litigation, the holders
will be the identical persons who held it at the beginning is
too uncertain and fanciful to form a basis for a judicial action.
As was well said by Mr. Justice Grier, in .Marshall v. Balti-

LEHIGH MINING AND MAN'F'G CO. v. KELLY.

353

Dissenting Opinion, Shiras, Field, Brown, JJ..

more & Ohio Railroad, 16 How. 314, 327: "The necessities
and conveniences of trade and business require that such
numerous associates and stockholders should act by representation, and have the faculty of contracting, suing, and being
sued in a factitious or collective name. . . . It is not
reasonable that representatives of unknown and ever changing
associatesshould be permitted to allege the different citizenship
of one or more of these stockholders," in order to defeat the
jurisdiction of Federal courts.
Some expressions used in the opinion of the court below,
and likewise in the majority opinion, seem to imply that the
act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, has operated to
change the law in respect to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States. I do not so understand the purpose of that enactment. I have supposed that it only operates
as a rule of practice. As the law previously stood, if the face
of the record disclosed a suit between citizens of different
States, and thus within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
it was necessary to traverse the averment of citizenship by a
plea in abatement, and if the defendant went to trial on a plea
to the merits he could not afterwards question the truth of
such averment. Smith v. Kernochen, 7 How. 198 ; Barney v.
Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280.
But since the passage of the act of March 3, 1875, "it is
competent for the court at any time, during the trial of the
case, without plea and without motion, to stop all further proceedings and dismiss the suit the moment a fraud on its jurisdiction was discovered."
Hartog v. -Memory, 116 U. S.588.
It is not perceived that the legal rights of owners of property are in anywise affected by this law, and it is still true, as
was said in Barry v. Edimunds, 116 U. S. 550, 559, that "the
order of the Circuit Court dismissing the cause for want of
jurisdiction is reviewable by this court on writ of error by the
express words of the act. In making such an order, therefore,
the Circuit Court exercises a legal and not a personal discretion, which must be exerted in view of the facts sufficiently
proven, and controlled by fixed rules of law. It might happen
that the judge, on the trial or hearing of a cause, would receive
VOL. cix-2-

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Slhiras, Field, Brown, 33.

impressions amounting to a moral certainty that it does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy within
the jurisdiction of the court. But upon such a personal conviction, however strong, he would not be at liberty to act,
unless the facts on which the persuasion is based, when made
distinctly to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of
the conclusion based on them. Nothing less than this is meant
by the statute when it provides that the failure of its jurisdic-.
tion, on this account, shall appear to the satisfaction of" the
court.
As then the plaintiff company is conceded to be a duly organized and existing body corporate of the State of Pennsylvania;
as the land in dispute is within the jurisdiction of the court,
and the defendants in possession thereof are citizens of the
State of Virginia; and as it is conceded that, by a deed of conveyance in fee simple, the Virginia company passed all its
right, title, and interest in said land, and has since had "no
interest in said land, or in the suit," I think the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court ought not to be defeated by the conjecture
that the persons owning the stock of the corporation when
the deed of conveyance was made might continue to own it
years afterwards when the suit should terminate, and might
choose, as such owners, to cause another transfer and conveyance of the land to be made. Such conjectures are very far
from furnishing for judicial action that "legal certainty"
which in Barry v. Edmunds is said to be the proper basis
upon which to deprive parties of their right of access to the
national tribunals.
If we are permitted to enter into the realm of supposition,
it is easy to suggest that the present stockholders, so far as they
are citizens of Virginia, might dispose of their stock in good
faith and absolutely to citizens of Pennsylvania. Then, upon
another action brought in the same court, the same pleas being
interposed, it would be competent, according to the views
which prevail in the present case, to meet the pleas by a replication averring that the individual stockholders are citizens of
Pennsylvania, and thus the jurisdiction would be sustained.
What, in such a case, would have become of the long-settled

