OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

a finding of facts different from the finding of the trial court,
it is its duty to recite in its final judgment the facts so found,
(Rev. Stat. Ill. c. 110, § 87; 2 Starr & Curt. 1842,) but there
was no such finding of facts by the Appellate Court .here,
and it is to be presumed that that court found the facts in
the same way as did the trial court. As the Supreme Court
proceeded to judgment upon the facts as thus determined,
we must accept its view as controlling.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. THORNTON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA..
lo.138. Submitted December 20,1895.-Decided January 6,1896.
The claimant originally enlisted at Washington in August, 1878, and was
discharged -at Mare Island, California, November 6, 1886, receiving
(under he provisions of Rev. Stat. § 1290, as amended by the act of
February 27, 1877,) travel pay and commutation of subsistence from
Mare Island to Washington. He did not return to Washington, but
November 10, 1886, refnlisted at Mare Island as a private, and in the
course of his service was returned to Washington, where, at the expiration of two years and four months, he was discharged at his own request.
Held, That, as the service was practically a continuous one, and his
second discharge occurred at the place of his original enlistment, he was
not entitled to his commutation for travel and subsistence to the place
of his second enlistment.

THE petition in this case set forth that the petitioner enlisted.
as a private in the marine corps, November 10, 1886, at.Mare
Island, California, to serve five years, and was discharged
March 13, 1889, at Washington D. C., by order of the Secretary of the Navy ; that, under the provisions of Rev. Stat.
§ 1290, he was entitled to receive transportation and subsistence or travel pay and commutation of subsistence from the
place of his discharge to that of his enlistment; that he made
written application for the same to the Treasury Department,
and was informed that his claim was adjusted and transmitted

UNITED STATES ,v:" THORNTON.

.655

Statement of the Case.

to'the Second Comptroller, who declined to allow the case,
on the ground that he was discharged at his own request
before the expirationof his term of enlistment.
The case having been heard before the Court of Claims, that
court upon the evidence found the folloWing facts:
1. The claimant enlisted at the age of 13 years '1month
and 3 days, in the marine corps of the United States, at Washington, D.,C., on August 29, 1878,' for a term 8f 7-yeas 10
months and 27 days, and was then "boufid to learn music" in
said corps.
April 1'7, i880, he was rated as a drummer.'
November 6, 1886, hewas discharged from. the service at
MWare Island, California , as a drummer."
November 10, 1886, he re6dlisted at Mare Island, California, as a private in said corps for a term of five years.
On March'13, 1889, before'the expiration of the last-mentioned term of exlistment,. Thornton, as a private in said corps,
was, at his own request, and not by way of punishment for
an offence, discha ged from service at the Marine Barracks,
Washington, D. C., by direction 'ofthe Secretary of the Navy.
The claimant was settleo 'with iMfull for all pay and allowances except transportation and subsistence in kind, ', in lieu
thereof, travel pay -and 'commutation I of' subsistence, from
Washington, D. C., the place of his discharge, to Mare Island,
California, the place where he had refnlisted. -And when he
was discharged, at the end of his ferm of enlistment, he received travel pay and commutation of subsistence computed
at the rate of one day for every twenty miles of the distance
from Mare Island, California; i6Washington, D. C.
2. The travel pay and commuiation of subsistence of a private'in the marine corps when discharged in the third year of
his second term of enlistment, and when heis allowed thd same,
are stated by th6 proper- accounting officers of the 'Treasury
Department to be one day's pay at 60 cents per day, and one
ration conimuted at 30 cents for each twenty miles of the distance from place of discharge to place of last enlistment; and
in the settlement of'accounts they adopt 3136 miles as the'distance from Washington, D. C., to Mare Island, California.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

According to this practice the travel pay and commutation
of subsistence on such a discharge would be for 157 days' pay, at 60 cents ........................

$94 20

157 rations, at 30 cents ...........................

47 10

Total ....................................
$141 30
3. Under a long-standing constructioh by the accounting
officers of the Treasury Department of the law embraced in
section 1290 of the Revised Statutes, it has been the practice
to refuse travel pay and commutation of subsistence to enlisted
men from the place of their discharge to the place of enlistment, when they have been discharged at their own request
prior to the expiration of their term of enlistment.
The only exception made under this practice is when'an
enlisted man is discharged at his own request after twenty
years of faithful service. (Army Regulations, 1863, par. 163.)
4. Before bringing suit here the claimant presented the
claim set forth in his petition to the proper accounting officers
of the Treasury Department, and it was disallowed in accordance with the practice mentioned in finding 3.
The court also found as a conclusion of law, that the claimant
was entitled to recover of the defendants the sum of one hundred and forty-one dollars and thirty cents ($141.30), for which
amount judgment was entered, and the government appealed.
-Mr.Assistant .Attorney General Dodge for appellants.
-t.

Robert Thornton, appellee, submitted on the record.
MR. JUsTicE BRoww delivered the opinion of the court.
By Rev. Stat. § 1290, as amended by the act of February 27,
1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 240, 244, "when a soldier is discharged
from the service, except by way of punishment for an offence,
he shall be allowed transportation and subsistence from the
place of his discharge to the place of his enlistment, enrolmen, or original muster into the service. The Government
may furnish the same in kind,.but in case it shall not do so,
he shall be allowed travel pay and commutation of subsistence, .for 6uch time as may be sufficient for him to travel
from the place of discharge to the place of his enlistment, en-

UNITED STATES v. THORNTON.
Opinion of the Court.

rolment, or original muster into the service, computed at the
rate of one day for every twenty miles."
,
i . The case was disposed of in the court below as one. depending solely upon the question whether a soldier; who -is discharged from the service by his own consent, shall, under the
above.section, be allowed the transportation and subsistence
therein piovided -for.
We do not find it necessary to express an opinion upon this
question, as there is another point apparently not called to the
attention of the Court of,Claims, upon which we think the
case must be reversed. The transportation provided for is
"from the place of his discharge to! the place of his, enlist,ment, enrolment or original muster into' the service." Claimant was originally enlisted at Wasbingtonin August, 1878, and
was discharged at Mare Island, California, November 6, 1886,
receiving, under the provisions of the above section, tiavel pay
and commutation. of subsistence from Mare Island to Washington. He did not return to Washington, however,, but. on
the fourth day thereafter (November 10),rednlisted at Mare
Island as a private, and in the course of his service was'returned
to Washington, where, at the expiration of, two years and four
months, he was discharged at his own request, and now claims
transportation and commutation of subsistence from Washington to Mare Island as the place of his enlistment, amounting
to $141.30. The result is that,'notwithstanding his original
enlistment and final discharge were both at Washington; he
receives $282.60 for travel and subsistence twice 'across the
continent without ever having, so far' as it appears, expended a
dollar or travelled a mile.
These allowances- are both of them presumptively for expenses actually incurred, as is evident from the provision that
they may be furnished in kind, and are designed to reimburse
the soldier for all necessary outlays of returning to the place
of his enlistment, which is 'treated as presumptively his home.
Indeed, the law of 'January 11, 1812, c. 14, originally provided,
2 Stat., 671, 674, that the travel and subsistence should''be
allowed from the place of discharge to the place of residence of
the claimant. By Rev. Stat., however, -1290, Congress SubVOL. CLX--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

stituted for place of residence the expression "place of enlistment, enrolment or original muster into the service," the
purpose of which was, doubtless, to protect the government
against the soldier choosing a distant place for his assumed
residence and recovering a large mileage, to which he wag not
justly entitled. The presumption, however, that these allowances are for expenses actually incurred is not absolutely conclusive, and if it be shown that the soldier cannot possibly
intend to incur the expense for which the allowance is made,
or for some other reason he is not within the spirit of the act,
he is netentitled to the allowance. His claim, therefore, should
be based upon something more than a mere technicality. If,
for example, petitioner's discharge and reenlistment at Mare,
Island had been cotemporaneous acts, he would clearly not
have been entitled to travel and subsistence to Washington;
and such we understand to have been the practice of the
Department. So, if such discharge and reenlistment were so
near together that they constituted, practically, a continuous
service, we think the second enlistment may be treated as a
reenlistment, and if the soldier be returned to the place of
his original enlistment and there discharged, he would not
be entitled to an allowance for travel and subsistence.
In the case of United States v. Alger, 151 _U. S, 362; 152
1T. S. .34, where an officer resigned one day, and was appointed to a higher grade the next day, it was held that,
for the purpose of computing longevity pay, he was to be
considered as having been engaged in a continuous service.
Bounties to private soldiers, in the form of increased pay
after five years' service, are allowed by Rev. Stat. § 1282 and
-§1284, to those who reenlist within one month (since extended
to -three months, act of August 1, 1894:, c. 179, § 3, 28 Stat.
215, 216) after having been honorably discharged. This
would seem to indicate an intention on the part of Congress
-to regard a reenlistment within thirty days as practically a
continuous.service for the purpose of additional pay, though
n6t necessarily so for the purposes of transportation and subsistence.
In this case we are able to take judicial notice of the fact

UNITED- STATES v. -THO NTON.
Opinion of the- Court.

that claimant could not possibly have travelled from, Mare
Island. to Washington and back, within the four days -which
.elapsed between -his discharge and his re~n1istment, and
hence, if he intended to re~nlist, that he received there an
*allowance to which he was not justly entitled, and, as! the
second discharge is at the place of his original enlistment, he
is not entitled to another mileage across the continent. It
will, perhaps, not be just to say of the claimant that. the interval which elapsed between his discharge as a drummer and
his rednlistment as a private at Mare Island, was fcir the purpose of drawing transportation and subsistence to Washington,
but the case at least, suggests that possibility. Nor do we
undertake to say that the paymaster was not fully jistified in'.
paying'the claimant his transportation and subsistence when
originally discharged at Mare Island, sinbe it was manifestly
impossible for himto know whether the claimant intended to"
re~nlist or not; but under the circumstances we think the,
service should be treated as a' continuous one. Indeed, -it is
somewhat doubtful whether this is not specially provided 'f6r
by § 1290, which allows transportation and subsistence 'from
the place'of his discharge "to the place of his enlistment,
enrolment, or original musterd.iuto the service." If the word
"original" preceded the word "enlistment" this construction
would be freer from doubt, but the 'section as it reads certainly
lends support to the theory that the allowances were not intended as a mere bounty.
Whether the claimant should be recharged, after his rednlistment, with the travel and subsistence allowed him on his
first discharge raises a questioh which is not presented by the
record in this case, and upon which we do not feel warranted
in expressing an opinion. Other considerations may have ,a
bearing upon this question, which do not enter into the pres
ent controversy. If, for instance, the claimant did not intend. to re~nlist when first discharged,. but subsequently
changed his mind, it does not necessarily follow that he should
be recharged these allowances, if the government chose to reenlist him. The question at'issue concerns only the propriety
of the second claim and not of the first allowance. The case

