OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the Government, on account of the use by the telegraph company, for public business, of the .telegraph line constructed by
the railroad company, the entire absence of proof as to the
extent to which that line was, in fact, so used, renders it impossible to ascertain the amount improperly paid to, and without
right retained by, the telegraph company, and subsequently
divided between it and the railroad company. Upon this
ground, we adjudge that the court below did not err in directing a verdict for the defendants.
The judgment is

ji r med.

_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _A

GOLDSBY, als

Cherokee Bill, v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE 0IROUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 620. Submitted October 21, 1895. -Decided

December 2, 1895.

There is nothing in this case to take it out of the ruling in Isaacs v. United
States, 159 U. S. 487, that an application for a continuance is not ordinarily subject to review by this court.
In the trial of a person accused of crime the exercise by the trial court of
its discretion to direct or refuse to direct witnesses for the defendant to
be summoned at the expense of the United States is not subject to review
by this court.
Moore v. United States, 150 U. S. 57, 61, affirmed and applied to a question
raised in this case.
While it is competent, if a proper foundation has been laid, to irppeach a
witness by proving statements made by him, that cannot be done by
proving statements made by another person, not a witness in the case.
It is within the discretion of the trial court to allow the introduction of
evidence, obviously rebuttal, even if it should have been more properly
introduced in the opening, and, in the absence of gross abuse, its exercise of this discretion is not reviewable.
Rev. Stat. § 1033 does not require notice to be given of the names of witnesses, called in rebuttal.
If the defendant in a criminal case wishes specific charges as to the weight
to be attached in law to testimony introduced to establish an alibi, he
may ask the court to give them; and, if he fails to do so, the failure by
the court to give such instruction cannot be assigned as error.

THE plaintiff was indicted on the 8th of February, 1895,

GOLDSBY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

for the murder of Ernest Melton, a white man'and not an
Indian. The crime was charged to have been committed at
the IfCherokee Nation in the Indian country on the 18th day
of November, 1894." Prior to empanelling the jury on the
23d of February, 1895, the accused filed two affidavits for
continuance until the next term'of court. The first, filed on
the 12th of February, 1895, based on. the ground that for some
time prior to the finding of the indictment the defendant had
been in jail, was sick, and unable properly to, prepare his
defence, and that he was informed if further time were given.
him, there were witnesses, whose names were not disclosed
in the application, who could be produced to establish that he
was not guilty as charged. This was overruled. The second
was filed on: the 22d day of February, upon the ground that
four witnesses, whom the court had allowed to be summoned

at government expense, were not in attendance, and that there
were others, whose names were given, who could prove his
innocence, and who could be produced if the case were continued until the next term of court; the affidavit made no statement that the four witnesses had been actually found at the
places indicated, and gave no reason for their non-attendance,
and asked no compulsory process to secure it.
Before the trial the accused filed three requests for leave to
summon a number of witnesses at government expense. The
first was made on the 12th of February, and asked for twentyfive; the affidavit made by the accused gave the names of the
witnesses and the substance of what was expected to be proven
by them. The court allowed fifteen. Of the ten witnesses
disallowed, two were government witnesses, and were already
summoned; seven were the wives of witnesses whom the court
ordered summoned, the affidavit stating that the husband and
wife were relied on to prove the same fact; the other witness
disallowed, the affidavit disclosed, was also relied on simply
to corroborate the testimony of some of the witnesses who were
allowed. The second request was made on the 16th of February, asking for six witnesses, all of whom were ordered to
be summoned. The third request was made on the 19th of
February for two additional witnesses, one Harris and wife.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

This application was refused, both being government witnesses.
On the trial the uncontradicted testimony on behalf of the
government was that at about noon, on the day stated, two
men robbed a store at a town in the Indian Territory, and
that during the course of the robbery the murder was committed by one of those engaged therein. The testimony for
the prosecution tended to identify the accused not only as
having been one of the robbers, but also as being the one
by whom the murder was committed. The testimony for the
defence tended to disprove that of the government, which
identified the accused, and tended, moreover, by proof of an
alibi, to demonstrate the impossibiliby of the offence having
been committed by him. There was a verdict of guilty as
charged. The defendant brought the case by error here.
.Mr. William X. Craven&for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thitney for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTiCE WHrr, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

There are fourteen assignments of error. Two address
themselves to the refusal of the court to grant the applications
for continuance; three to the action of the court in denying
the request to summon certain witnesses at government expense; four relate to rulings of the court, admitting or rejecting testimony; and, finally, five to errors asserted to have been
committed by the court in its charge to the jury. We will
consider these various matters under their respective headings.
In a recent case we said: "That the action of a trial court
upon an application for continuance is purely a matter of discretion not subject to review by this court, unless it be clearly
shown that such discretion has been abused, is settled by too
many authorities to be now open to question."
Isaacs v.
United States, 159 U. S. 487, and authorities there cited. We
can see nothing in the action on the applications for continu-

GOLDSBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ance, which we have recited in the statement of facts, to take
it out of the control of this rule. The contention at bar
that because there had been no preliminary examination of the
accused, he was thereby deprived of his constitutional guarantee to be confronted by.the witnesses, by mere statement
demonstrates its error.
There was likewise no error in the action of the court in
relation to the various requests to summon witnesses at government expense; on the contrary, the fullest latitude was
allowed the accused. Were it otherwise,-the right to summon
witnesses at the expense of the government is by the statute,
Rev. Stat. § 878, left to the discretion of the. trial court, and the
exercise of such discretion is not reviewable here. Crumpto.
v. United States, 138 U. S. 361, 36-:.
There was proof showing that at the time of the robbery a
watch charm had been taken by the accused from one of the
persons present in the house which was robbed. This charm
was produced by a witness for the prosecution, who testified
that it had been given him -byone Verdigris Kid, whom the
testimony tended to show had participated inthe robbery ; that
this giving of the charm to the witness had taken place in the
presence of the accused; that at the time it was given the fact
of the robbery was talked of by the accused, he saying: "That
he had made a little hold up and got about one hundred and
sixty-four dollars as well as I remember, and that he had shot a
fellow, I believe." To the introduction of the watch charm objection was made. We think it was clearly admissible and came
directly under the rule announced in Moore v. United States,
150 U. S. 57, 61. John Schufeldt, the son of the man whose
store was robbed, in his testimony on behalf of the government, identified the accused not only as one of the robbers but
also as the one by whom the murder was committed. He was
asked, on cross-examination, whether he had heard his father;
in the presence of a Mr. John Rose, say that the robbers were,
one an Indian, and the other a white man. He answered that
he did not recollect hearing him make such a statement. On
the opening of the defendant's case, Schufeldt was recalled for
further cross-examination, and the question was again asked

OCTO1BER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

him, he replying to the same effect, thereupon the defence put
Rose upon the stand to testify to the conversation had by him
with the father of Schufeldt in his (John Schufeldt's) presence,
the father not being a witfiess in the cause. On objection
the testimony was excluded on the ground, that whilst it
would be competent if the proper foundation had been laid
to impeach the witness, by proving statements made by him,
it was incompetent to affect his credibility by proving statements made by another person, not a witness in the case.
The ruling was manifestly correct.
The government called a witness in rebuttal, who Was examined as to the presence of the defendant at a particular
place, at a particular time, to rebut testimony which had been
offered by the defendant to prove the alibi upon which he relied. This testimony was objected to on the ground that the
proof was not proper rebuttal. The court ruled that it was,
and allowed the witness to testify. It was obviously rebuttal
testimony; however, if it should have been more properly
introduced in the opening, it was purely within the sound
judicial discretion of the trial court to allow it, which discretion, in the absence of gross abuse, is not reviewable here.
TWood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342, 361; Johnston v. Jones,
1 Black, 209, 227; Commonwealth v. .oulton, 4 Gray, 39;
Commonwealth v. .Dam, 107 Mass. 210; Commonwealth v.
.Meaney, 151 Mass. 55; Gaines v. Commonwealth, 50 Penn.
St. 319; Leighton v. People, 88 N. Y. 117; People v. Wilson,
55 Michigan, 506, 515; W'ebb v. State, 29 Ohio St. 351;, Wharton's Criminal Pleading and Practice, § 566; 1 Thompson on
Trials, § 346, and authorities there cited.
During the course of defendant's evidence, and before he
had closed his case, testimony was elicited on the subject of
the defendant's hat, the purpose of which tended to disprove
some of the identifying evidence given on the opening of the
case. When this was adduced the prosecuting officer notified
the defence that he would be obliged to call in rebuttal one
Heck Thomas.
At a subsequent period in the trial Heck Thomas was sworn.
As he was about to testify objection was mhde, as follows:

GOLDSBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion bf the Court.

"Counsel for defendant: We were going to object to
Mr. Thomas being sworn. We now object to his 'being examined as a witness, on the ground that under the statute the
defendant is required to have forty-eight hours' notice of witnesses to be used by the government, and we have had no
notice of an intention to use Mr. Thomas as a witness.
"The Court: The court has always held if it is in reb-ittal
it is absolutely. impossible to give the defendant notice of the
witness. If that is the rule, that we have to give forty-eight
hours' notice to the defendant of witnesses to be used in rebuttal, it would simply amount to a defeat of justice and a
defeat of a trial altogether. The reason of the rule is very
manifest, but when it comes to facts that are purely in rebuttal no notice can be given, because it is impossible.
"Counsel for defendant: Of course I understand the position of the court, but we simply want to discharge what we
thought our duty in this matter, and we except to any statement of what the witness will prove, and we except to the
use of the witness. We do not think it is competent either
in chief or -rebuttal, and therefore we waive .an exception to
the whole pleading.
"The Assistant District Attorney: The .facts I want to
establish by Mr. Thomas are about these: That -he, in attempting to capture the defendant, had a fight with him on
the 16th of November: A witness for the defendant was on
the stand and the court remembers what he says about the
time he saw the defendant, a week after the Fank Daniel
fight. We propose to show the date of that fight, which will
be the 16th of November, and also as to the kind of hat the
defendant was wearing, and that he had at that time. a wire
cutter in his possession.
"Counsel for defendant: The wire cutter part would certainly not be rebuttal:
"The Assistant District Attorney: Yes, it is, because they
,have introduced evidence to show that this country was covered with wire fences."
Conceding that the facts as to which the witness was called
to testify were matters of rebuttal, the absence of the notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

required, Rev. § Stat. 1033, did not disqualify him. The provision of the statute is that "when any person is indicted for
treason, a copy of the indictment and a list of the jury, and
.of the witnesses to be produced on the trial for proving the
indictment,

.

.

.

shall be delivered to him at least three

entire days before he is tried for the same." The next sentence in the section makes the foregoing applicable to capital
cases, but reduces the time to two entire days before the trial.
The words "for proving the indictment," and the connection
in which they are used, clearly refer to the witnesses relied
upon by the prosecution to establish the charge made by the
indictment. They do not extend to such witnesses as may be
rendered necessary for rebuttal purposes resulting from the
testimony introduced by the accused in his defence. Indeed,
that they do not apply to rebuttal is obvious from the .very
nature of things, for if they did, as was well said, by the trial
judge, it would be impossible to conduct any trial. Upon
state statutes containing analogous provisiohs the authorities
are 'free from doubt. State v. Gillick, 10 Iowa, 98; State v.
Buthven, 58 Iowa, 121; State v. Hieckine, 23 Nebraska, 309;
Gate8 v. The .People,14: Illinois, 433; Logg v. The PeoTe, 92
Illinois, 598; State v. Cook, 30 Kansas, 82; Hill v. The People,
26 Michigan, 496.
That the testimony, as to the hat, sought to be elicited from
the witness Thomas was purely rebuttal is equally clear. This
is also the case with regard to the testimony as to the wire
cutter. The defence in its attempt to make out the alibi
introduced testimony tending to show that the defendant at a
given time was many miles from the place of the murder, and
that by the public road he could not have had time to reach
this point, and have been present at the killing. In order to
prove that he could not have reached there by any other more
direct route than the public road, one of his witnesses had testified that the country was covered with wire fences. It was
competent to show in rebuttal of this statement that the
accused was in possession of a wire cutter, by which the jury
could deduce that it was possible for him to.travel across the
country by cutting the fences. Of course the weight to be

