OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

mits some debts to be deducted from some moneyed capital,
but not from that which is invested in the shares of national
banks, is not sufficient to show such violation. The judgment must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos.

599, 629.

Argued January 8, 9, 1896. -Decided

January 2T, 1896.

An appropriation by Congress for continuing the work of surveying, locating, and preserving the lines of battle at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and
for purchasing, opening, constructing, and improving avenues along the
portions occupied by the various commands of the armies of the Potomac
and Northern Virginia on that field, and for fencing the same; and for
the purchase, at private sale or by condemnation, of such parcels of land
as the Secretary of War may deem necessary for the sites of tablets, and
for the construction of the said avenues; for determining the leading
tactical positions and properly marking the same with tablets of batteries,
regiments, brigades, divisions, corps, and other organizations, with reference to the study and correct understanding of the battle, each tablet
bearing a brief historical legend, compiled without praise and without
censure, is an appropriation for a public use, for which the United States
may, in the exercise of its right of eminent domain, condemn and take
the necessary lands of individuals and corporations, situated within that
State, including lands occupied by a railroad company.
Any act of Congress which plainly and directly tends to enhance the respect
and love of the citizen for the institutions of his country and to quicken
and strengthen his motives to defend them, and which is germane to and
intimately connected with and appropriate to the exercise of some one or
all of the powers granted by Congress, must be valid, and the proposed
use in this case comes within such description.
1The docket title of each of these cases was United States v. A certain
Tract of Land in Cumberland Township, Adams County, State of Pennsylvania.

UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC R'Y. '669
Statement of the Case.
The mere fact that Congress limits the amount to be appropriated for such
purpose does not render invalid the law providing for the taking of the

land.
The quantity of land which should be taken for such a purpose is a legislative, and not a judicial, question.

When land of a railroad company is taken for such purpose, if the part taken
by the government is essential to enable the railroad corporation to perform its functions, or if the value of the remaining-property is impaired,

subh facts may enter into the question of the amount of the compensation to be awarded.
The court below-can, before a new trial, authorize the allegation as to the
decision by the Secretary of War upon the necessity of *taking the land
to be amended, if necessary.

THESE are two writs of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
They involve the same queltions.
By the act of Congress, approved August 1, 1888, c. 728, 25
Stat. 357, entitled "An act to authorize condemnation of land
for sites of public buildings and for other purposes," it is provided: "That in every case in which the Secretary of the
Treasury, or any other officer of the Government, has been or
hereafter shall be authorized to procure real estate for the
erection of a public building or for-other public uses, he shall
be and hereby is authorized to acquire the same for the United,
States by condemnation, under judicial process, whenever in
his opinion it is necessary or. advantageous to the Government
to do so.!
By the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1893, c. 208, 27
Stat. 572, 599, generally called the Sundry Civil Appropriation
act, it was provided, among other things, as follows: "Monuments and Tablets at Gettysburg. For the purpose of preserving the lines of battle at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania and
for properly marking with tablets the positions occupied by
the various commands of the armies of the Potomac and of
Torthern Virginia on that field, and for opening and improving avenues along the positions occupied by troops upon those
lines, and for fencing the same, and for determining the leading tactical positions of batteries, regiments, brigades, divisions,
corps and other organizations, with reference to the study and
correct understanding of the battle, and to mark the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

with suitable tablets, each- bearing a brief historical legend,
compiled without praise and without censure, the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War."
Subsequently to the passage of that act and on the 5th of
June, 1894, 28 Stat. 584, a joint resolution of Congress was
approved by the President, which, after reciting the passage
of the act of 1893, and the appropriation of the sum of
$25,000 thereby, contained the further recital that the sum of
$50,000 was then under consideration by Congress as an additional appropriation for the same purposes, and that it had
been recently decided by the United States court, sitting in
Pennsylvania, that authority had not been distinctly given for
the acquisition of such land as may be necessary to enable the
*War Department to execute the purposes declared in the act
of 1893, and that there was imminent danger that portions of
the battlefield might be irreparably defaced by the construction of a railroad over the same, thereby making impracticable
the execution of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1893, it
was, therefore, "Resolved, By the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress
assembled, that the Secretary of War is authorized to acquire
by purchase (or by c6ndemnation) pursuant to the act of
August first, eighteen. hundred and eighty-eight, such lands,
or interest in lands, upon or in the vicinity of said battlefield,
*asin the judgment of the Secretary of War may be necessary
for the complete execution of the act of March third, eighteen
hundred and ninety-three: Piovided, That no obligation or
liability upon the part of the government shall be incurred
under this resolution, nor any expenditure made except out
of the appropriations already made and to be made during
the present session of this Congress." A further appropriation of $50,000 was made for this purpose by the act of
August 18, 1894, c. 301, 28 Stat. 372, 405, the same session of
Congress.
Acting under the authority of these various statutes and
joint resolution, the United States District Attorney for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by direction of the Attorney

UNITED STATES a. GETITYSBtIRG ELECTRIC R'Y.. 671
Statement of the Case.

General, filed a petition in the name of the United States for
the purpose of condemning certain lands therein described, for
the objects mentioned in the acts of Congress.
The petition in the first case recited the foregoing facts, and
also stated the inability to agree with the owners upon the price
of the land desired, and asked for the appointment of a jury,
according to the law of the State of Pennsylvania in such case
provided. The second section of the act of Congress, approved
August 1, 1888, above mentioned, provides that the practice,
pleadings, forms and modes of proceedings are to conform so
far as may be to those existing at the time in like causes in
the courts of record of the State within which such Circuit
or District Courts are held. The Gettysburg Electric Railway Company answered .this petition, and. set Ap the fact
that it was. a corporation existing under the laws of Pennsylvania, and that by virtue of its -chdrter it had the power to
buildits road along a certain portion of the Gettysburg borough,
limits, described in the answer; that it had acquired as a part
of a route of one of -the branches of its road, and for the purpose of using the same as a part of its right of way, the tract
of land particularly mentioned and described in the petition,
and which is the subject of the condemnation pro~eedings.
It alleged that the effect of the condemnation "of the strip of
ground would be to cut off a particular branch railway or extension belonging to it, and destroy its continuity and prevent
its construction and operation. The company further answered that the greater part of the appropriation of $25,000,
under the act of March 3, 1893, had already been expended
for the purposes stated therein, and that the balance remaining to the credit of the appropriation was Jess ihan $10,000.
The electric railway company afterwards filed. a further or
amended answer, and therein set forth that the entire balance
remaining unexpended of the appropriation of $25,000, under
the act of March 3, 1893, and of. $50,000, which had been
appropriated by the act approved August 18, 1894, were
covered by contracts already made under the authority of the
Secretary of War, and that there was not -in .point of fact,
at that time, any part of either appropriation available for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

purpose of paying any judgment which might be recovered
by the company in these condemnation proceedings.
Evidence was given on the question of the value of the land
to be taken, and on the fifth of November, 1894, the jury filed
a report awarding the sum of $30,000 as the value of the land
proposed to be taken in the first or main proceeding. The
Gettysburg Electric Railway Company duly filed exceptions
to the award, and on the same day appealed therefrom. The
United States also appealed. The case was argued, and in
April, 1895, an order was entered that the first and second
exceptions fied by the defendant be sustained and that the
petition of the United States be dismissed. Those two exceptions are as follows:
"1. The act of Congress approved August 1, 1888, provides for the acquisition of real estate by the United States
by condemnation only for the erection of public buildings or
for other public uses. It does not appear in the petition of
Ellery P. Ingham, Esq., United States Attorney, that the Secretary of War has been authorized to procure the tract of
land mentioned in the fifth paragraph thereof, belonging to
the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company, for the erection
of a public building or for other public uses. The purposes
named for the expenditure of the appropriation in the act of
Congress of March 3, 1893, are not such public uses as authorize the condemnation by the United States of the real estate
of private persons."
"2. The purpose specified in the sixth paragraph of the
said petition, namely, ' of preserving the lines of battle,' 'properly marking with tablets the positions obcupied,' and. ' determining the leading tactical positions of batteries, regiments,
brigades, divisions, corps and other organizations with reference to the study and correct understanding of the battle, and
to mark the same with suitable tablets,' are none of them
public uses or purposes, authorizing the condemnation by the
United States of private property."
The second proceeding was taken for the purpose of condemning a certain other portion of land containing a little
over two acres. There was no trial in that matter, but the

.UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC RWY.

673

Argument for the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company.

case was dismissed, under the motion made by the defendant
to quash the proceedings, upon the same grounds stated in
the main case.
The substance of the holding of the" circuit judge was that
the intended use of the land'was not that kind of a public use
for which the United States had the constitutional power to
condemn land. The district judge dissented from that view
and was of the opinion that the use was public, and that the
United States had the power to condemn land for that
purpose.
.Mr. Solicitor General and -Mr. Attorney General for .the
United States.
-Mr. Thomas Bart,Jr., for the Gettysburg Electric Railway
Gompany. -Mr. Charles Heelmer was with him on the brief.
I. The purposes named in the act of March 3, 1893, are not
public uses, and the United States are not authorized to condemn private property for them.
'We concede that the United States have the. right to take
private property for certain public uses; but,- on the other
*hand, it is well settled that this right cannot . be exercised,
within the limits of a State, for a purpose which is not incident to .some power delegated to the General Government.
Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367; Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641; United States.v. Fox, 9J
U. S.-315; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 111 U. S. 15.1; Shoemaker v. United States, 147 -U. S. 282.
The question, therefore, for consideration is whether the
four purposes named in the act of 1893, namely: the preservatio: of the lines of battle; the' marking the positions
occupied by the various commands; the opening and improving avenues; and the determination of the leading tactical
positions, have such relation to. the powers granted by the
Constitution as to -come within the above stated rule.
It is to be observed at the outset that the question of the
publicity of the use is not at .all -determined and concluded by
the fact that the sovereign itself is the medium of the exercise
VOL. CM-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company.

of the power. Such a doctrine would simply put it in the
power of the government to take for any purpose it chose.
The inquiry must always be: What are the objects to be
accomplished -:not who, are the instruments for attaining
them' There would be no limitation on the taking of property by the United States if it were conclusively considered
that a use was a public one merely because the property was
taken directly into the possession of the government.
There is in the decisions a good deal of uncertainty and
conflict as to the meaning of the words "public use," two
different classes of views existing-one holding that there
must be a use or right of use on the part of the public or
some limited portion of it, the other holding that the words
are equivalent to public benefit, utility, or advantage.
It must be remembered that the question is not, for what
purposes may' the power of eminent domain be properly exercised by a sovereign State in the absence of restriction.
The Constitution provides that private property shall not be
taken for public uses without just compensation. These words
are a limitation, the same in effect as, "you shall not exercise
this power except for public use." lNumerous cases have so
held. Harvey v. Thomas, 10 Watts, 63; United States v.
Jones, 109 U. S.513; Twelfth Street Mftarket Company's case,
142 Penn. St. 580; Palairet8sApeal, 67 Penn. St. 479; Eeding v. Griffln, 56 Penn. St. 305; West River Bridge Co. v.
Dix, 6 How. 507; Memphis Freight Co. v. Mmnphis, 4 Coldwell, 419; Sholl v. German Goal Co., 118 Illinois, 427; in re
Niagara -Malls & Whirlpool _Railway, 108 N. Y. 375.
There is a difference between the powers of the Federal
government and the powers of .a state government in acqmirin& land within that State by the exercise of the right of eminent domain. This difference is thus expressed in Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 6th ed. page 645:
"As under the peculiar American system the protection
and regulation 'of private rights, priiileges and immunities
in general belong to the state government, and those governments are expected to make- provision for the conveniences
and necessities which are usually provided for their citizens

UNITED STATES'v. GETTYSBURG'ELECTRIC RY.

675

Argument for the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company.

through the exercise of the right of eminent domain, the
right itself, it would seem, must pertain to those governments
also, rather than -to the Government of the Nation; and such
has been the conclusion of the authorities. In the new territories, however, where the Government of the United States
exercises sovereign authority, it possesses, as incident thereto,
the right, of eminent domain, which it may exercise directly
or. through the- territorial government; but this right passes
from the nation to the newly formed State whenever the lat-'
ter is admitted into the Union. So far, however, as the General Government may deem it important to ippropriate lands
or other property for its own. purposes, and to enable it to
perform its functions - as must sometimes be necessary in
the case of forts, lighthouses, military posts or roads and
other conveniences and necessities of the Government -- the
General Government may still exercise the authority, as well
within the 'States and within the' Territory under its exclusive jurisdiction, and its right to do so may be supported by
the same reasons which support the .right in any case; that
is to say, the absolute necessity that the means in the Government for performing its functions and perpetuating it$
existence should not be liable to. be controlled or defeated
by,. the want of consent of private parties, or of any' other
authority."
.
i,
The' adjudicated cases show the. character of the use for
which the right. to take private prpperty has been-sustained.
Burt v. .Merchants' Ins. Co., 106 Mass. 356, for a postoffice;
Kohl v. United Statesi 91 U. S. 367, for United States Courts;
United States v. Jones, 109 U.* S. 513, to improve water communication between the 'Mississippi and Lake Michigan;
United States v. Great-Fall Manuf. Co., 112 U. 5. 645, for
supplying Washington with water; Tn r e LeagueIsnd, 1
Brewster, 524, .for, a navy yard; Gilmer v. Zine Point, Is
California, 229, for a fort; Reddall v. Bryan, 14 -Maryland,
444, for water works ,for Washington; Orr v. Quimby, 54
N. H. 590; United States v. Chicago, 7 How. 185i for military
purposes. See also Constitution, Art. I., Sec. 8; Fort Leavenworth .Railroadv. Lowe, 114 U. ,S. 525.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Argument for the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company.

The purposes specified. in the various acts of Congress
authorizing or regulating the taking of private property for
public use are national cemeteries, sites for life-saving stations,
lighthouses, for improvement of rivers and harbors, for fortifications and coast defences, and Government Printing Office.
The present case is none of these. To what authority in
Congress is it germane?
The provision for opening and improving avenues need not
be considered. Congress has power to provide only for those
highways, whether roads, bridges or railroads, which are
intended as a means of communication between the States.
Califor-ia v. Central Pacific Railroad,127 U. S. 1; Cherokee
Nation v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641; -Luxtom
v. North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525; .Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312.
When this case was argued in the court below the objects of
the act of 1893 were referred by the learned United States
Attorney to Art. I., Sec. 8, of the Constitution empowering
Congress "to levy and collect taxes, duties, imports and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States."
If is quite sufficient, however, to say in the words of the
opinion below, that the power to lay and collect taxes is quite
distinct from the right to take private property for public use,
and that it is not the power of taxation but the right of eminent domain which is here asserted.
This matter is to be looked at solely with reference to what
the United States proposes to do by the terms of the act under
which these proceedings are conducted.
The United States has not yet acquired any ground for a
national park. The ground is already acquired, to a large
extent, by the Gettysburg Battlefield Memorial Association,
a corporation of the State of Pennsylvaniia, but its purposes
and acts cannot be used.to help out the action of the United
States in the proposed condemnation.
The government may purchase land and devote it to a great
inany purposes which- it could not be contended would entitle it to condemn the same against the will of the owner.

UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC R'Y.

671

Argument for the Gettysburg Electriq Railway Company.

When, however, it seeks to take private property it can and
will be prevented from accomplishing that purpose if the object be not one which it has power to carry out.
It is by no means clear, however, that the United, States
may condemn land in a State for the purpose of a national
park.
This question was argued and received somne consideration
in Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282, but the decision
was expressly rested upon the ground that the place of the
exercise of the power was the District of Columbia, over
which Congress has exclusive power of legislation.
II. The appropriation for the payment of the property
taken being entirely inadequate, it is submitted that the proviso to the resolution of June 6, 1894, "that no obligation or
liability upon the part of the government shall be incurred
under this resolution, or any expenditure made except out of
the appropriation already made and to be made during the
present session of this Congress," renders the whole unconstitutional, nugatory, and void.
The first act of March 3, 1893, appropriated the sum of
$25,000. The act of August 18, 1894, appropriated the sum
of $50,000, and this is the total of the appropriations made
during the session of Congress at which the resolution of
June 6, 1894, was passed. See- proviso thereto.
By the supplemental answers it appears that the balance to
the credit of the first named appropriation was, February,'
1895, $2882.17, and the balance to the credit of the other
was, as of the same date, $36,000. *
It further appears, however, by the answers filed March 20,
1895, that the entire balance remaining unexpended of both
of the above mentioned appropriations is covered by contracts
already made under the authority of the Secretary of, War,
for purposes for which the said appropriations were made,
and that the execution of the said contracts will require the
expenditure of the entire balances remaining of both appropriations.
The taking of land from a citizen for the use of the United
States cannot be Iconstitutional wi'hout a provision being

OCTOBER TERNM, 1895.
Argument for the Gettysburg Electric Railway Company.

made for a tribunal for the ascertainnrent of compensation,
and for a method by which payment can be enforced by such
proper tribunal, or a pledge of public faith being made that a
distinct fund should be held by the government for its payment.
The settled. and fundamental doctrine is thus stated by
Chancellor Kent, 2 Com., 12th ed., 339, notef: "The settled
and fundamental doctrine is that government has no right to
take private property for public purposes without giving a
just compensation; and it seems to be -necessarily implied
that the indemnity should, in cases which will admit of it, be
previously and equitably ascertained, and be ready for reception, concurrently in point of time with the actual exercise of
the right of eminent domain." See also Bloodgood v. Mohawk
& Hudson River Railroad,18 Wend. 9; People v. Hayden, 6
Hill, 359; Loweree v. Newark, 38 N. J. Law, 151; Connecticut
River Railroadv. Commissioners, 127 Mass. 50 ; In re Sedgeley
Avenuo, 88 Penn. St. 509; Orr v. Quimby, 54 N. EH. 590;
Cherokee Nation v. Southern -YansasRailway, 135 U. S. 641,
659; United States v. Great Falls Afg. Co., 112 U. S. 645.
In the present case, although the act of 1888 provides a
method of,ascertaining damages in cases of condemnation by
the United States, there is no adequate fund provided for the
payment thereof. Upon an ascertainment in the condemnation proceedings of the damage to the Electric Railway Company, it will have to await the pleasure of Congress before it
can obtain payment.
III. The act of Congress does not authorize the acquisition of a railway in actual operation.
the law is settled that only an intention in express terms
or shown to exist by necessary implication, will sustain the
taking of property already devoted to a public use. General
terms such as "land," etc., are not sufficient.
In WFest River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507, Justice
Woodbury said, page 543, that the right to take a franchise
was subject to the limitation "that it must be in cases where
a clear intent is manifested in the laws, that one corporation
and its uses shall yield to another, or another public use under

UINITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC R'Y.

679

Opinion of the Court.

the supposed superiority of the' latter and the necessity of the
case."
It must be admitted that in the act of 1893 there is no expression of an intent to take this railivay, or any part of it.
The government knew of the situation when the act of 1893
was passed. This company had acquired this strip for the
purpose of constructing its railway -in 1891. The deeds were
recorded in February and iNovember, '1892. The United
States could have taken the railroad, but it then said nothing
on the subject.
IV. A part only of the franchise of a railroad company cannot be condemned and taken. The franchise is indivisible.
Mr. JusTICE PEOKiHx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The really important question to be determined in these
pr6ceedings is, whether the use to which the petitioner desires to put the land described in the petitions is of that kind
of public use for.which the government of the United States
is authorized to condemn land.
It has authority to do so whenever it is necessary or appropriate to use the land in the ekecutfon of any of the powers
granted to it by the Constitution. Kol v. United States, 91
U. S. 367; Cherokee Nation v. ifansas Railway, 135 U. S.
641, 656; Clzap2ell v. United .States, 160 U. S. 499.
Is the proposed use, fo which this land isto be put, a public
use within this limitation?
*Thepurpose of the use is stated in the first- act of Congress,
passed on the 3d- day of March,.1893, (the appropriation- act
of 1893,) and is quoted in the above statement of facts. The
appropriation act of August 18, 1894, also contained the following: "For continuing the work of surveying, locating and
preseiving the lines of battle at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and
for pfirchasing, opening, constructing and improving avenues
along the porti}ns occupied by the various commands of the
armies of the Potomac and Northern Virginia on that field,
and for fencing the sanie; and for the purchase, at private
sale or by c6ndemnation, of such parcels of land. as the Sec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

retary of War may deem necessary for the sites of tablets,
and for the construction of the said avenues; for determining
the leading tactical positions and properly marking the same
with tablets of batteries, regiments, brigades, divisions, corps
and other organizations with reference to the study and correct understanding of the battle, each tablet bearing a brief
historical legend, compiled without praise and without censure; fifty thousand dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War."
In these acts of Congress and in the joint resolution the intended use of this land is plainly set forth. It is stated in the
second volume of Judge Dillon's work on Municipal Corporations, (4th ed. ยง 600,) that when the legislature has declared
the use or purpose to be a public one, its judgment will be
respected by the courts, unless the use be palpably without
reasonable foundation. Many authorities are cited in the
note, and, indeed, the rule commends itself as a rational and
proper one.
As just compensation, which is the full value of the prop:
erty taken, is to be paid, and the amount must be raised by
taxation where the land is taken by the government itself,
there is not much ground to fear any abuse of the power.
The responsibility of Congress to the people will generally, if
not always, result in a most conservative exercise of the right.
It is quite a diaerent view of the question which courts will
take when this power is delegated to a private corporation.
"In that case the presumption that the intended use for which
the corporation proposes to take the land is public, is not so
strong as where the government intends to use the land itself.
In examining an act of Congress it has been frequently said
that every intendment is in favor of its constitutionality.
Such act is presumed to be valid unless its invalidity is plain
and apparent; no presumption of invalidity can be indulged
in; it must be shown clearly and unmistakably. This rule has
been stated and followed by this court from the foundation of
the government.
Upon the question whether the proposed use of this land is
a public one, we think there can be no well foundecT doubt.

UNITED STATES'v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC R'Y.

681

Opinion of the Court.

And also, in our judgment, the government has the constitutional power to condemn the land for the proposed use. It is,
of course, not necessary that the power of condemnation for
such purpose be expressly given by the Constitution. The
right to condemn at all is not so given. It results from the
powers that are given, and it is implied because of its necessity, or because it is appropriate in exercising those powers.
Congress has power to declare war and to create and equip
armies and navies. It has the great power of taxation to be
exercised for the common defence and, general welfare. Having such powers, it has such other and implied ones as are
necessary and appropriate for the purpose of carrying the
powers expressly given into effect. Any act of Congress
which plainly and directly tends to enhance the respect and
love of the citizen for the institutions of his country and to
quicken and strengthen his motives to defend them, and which
is germane to and intimately connected with and appropriate
to the'exercise of some one or all of the powers granted by
Congress must be valid. This proposed use comes within such
description. The provision comes. within the iule laid down
by Chief Justice Marshall, in .ltcCuZloch v. .faryland, 4
W-heat.. 316, 421, in these words: "Let the end be legitimate,
let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means
which are appropriate, which are plainly adequate to that end,
which are not prohibited but consist with the letter and spirit
of the Constitution, are constitutional."
The end to be attained by this proposed use, as provided for
by the act of Congress, is legitimate, and lies within the scope
of the Constitution. The battle of Gettysburg was one of the
great battles of the world. The 'numbers contained in the opposing armies were great; the sacrifice of life was dreadful;
while the briwery and, indeed, heroism displayed by both the
contending forces rank with the highest- exhibition of those
qualities ever made by man. The importance of the issue involved in the contest of which this great battle was a part
cannot be overestimated.' The existence of the government
itself and the perpetuity of our institutions depended upon the
result. Yaluable lessons in the art of war can, now be learned'

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

from an examination of this great battlefield in connection
with the history of the events which there took place. Can it
be that the government is without power to preserve the land,
and properly mark out the various sites upon which this
struggle took place? Can it not erect the monuments provided for by these acts of Congress, or even take possession of
the field of battle in the name and for the benefit of all the
citizens of the country for the present and for the future?
Such a use seems necessarily not only a public use, but one so
closely connected with the welfare of the republic itself as to
be within the powers granted Congress by the Constitution for
the purpose of protecting and preserving the whole country.
It would be a great object-lesson to all who looked upon the
land thus cared for, and it would show a proper recognition of
the great things that were done there on those momentous
days. By this use the government manifests for the benefit of all
its citizens the value put upon the services and exertions of the
citizen soldiers of that period. Their successful effort to preserve the integrity and solidarity of the great republic of
modern times is forcibly impressed upon every one who looks
over the field. The value of the sacrifices then freely made is
rendered plainer and more durable by the fact that the government of the United States, through its representatives in
Congress assembled, appreciates and endeavors to perpetuate
it by this most suitable recognition. Such action on the part
of Congress touches the heart, and comes home to the imagination of every citizen, and greatly tends to enhance Iis love
and respect for those institutions for which these heroic sacrifices were made. The greater the love of the citizen for the
institutions of his country the greater is the dependence
properly to be placed upon him for their defence, in time of
necessity, and it is to such men that the country must look for
its safety. The institutions of our country which were saved
at this enormous expenditure of life and property ought to and
will be regarded with proportionate affection. Here upon this
battlefield is one of the proofs of that expenditure, and the
sacrifices are rendered more obvious and more easily appreciated when such a battlefield is preserved by the government

UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC R'Y.

683

Opinion of the Court.

at the public expense. The right to take land for cemeteries
for the burial of the deceased soldiers of the country rests on
the same footing and is connected with and springs from the
same powers of the Constitution. It seems very clear that
the government has the right to bury its own soldiers and to
see to it that their graves shall not remain unknown or
unhonored.
No narrow view of the character of this proposeduse should
be taken. Its national character and importance, we think,
are plain. The power to condemn for this purpose .need not
be plainly and unmistakably deduced from any one of the
particularly specified powers. Any number of those powers
may be grouped together, and an inference from them all may
be drawn that the power claimed has been conferred.
It is needless to enlarge upon the subject, and the determination is arrived at without hesitation that the use intended
as set forth in the petition in this proceeding is of that public
nature which comes within the constitutional power of Congress to provide for by the condemnation of land.
Second. It is objected that the appropriations made by the
several acts of Congress had been exhausted when the
amended answers were put in, and that the proviso attached
to the joint resolution above' mentioned, prohibiting any expenditure other than such as might be appropriated in that
session of Congress, renders it impossible for the land owner
to obtain payment with any certainty for his property that
might be taken from him. Although it is set up in the answer
of the electric company to the petition filed on the part of the
United States, the fact that the fund appropriated has been
exhausted does not appear by any evidence contained in either
record. So far as this court can see from the record, there is
an appropriation amounting to $75,000, for the purpose of obtaining land, a -part of which has been found to be worth
$30,000, and the other, and much smaller portion, is not
valued. The proviso, therefore, would seem to be immaterial,
as the appropriations were much larger.than the value of the
land to be taken. The mere fact that Congress limited the
amount to be appropriated for the purposes indicated does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

render the law providing for the taking- of the land invalid.
Shoemaker v. United States, 141 'U. S. 282, 302. Mr. \Justice
Shiras, in delivering the opinion of the court in the case cited,
said: "The validity of the law is further challenged-because
the aggregate amount to be expended in the purchase of land
for the park is limited to the amount of $1,200,000. It is said
that this is equivalent to condemning the lands and fixing
their value by arbitrary enactment. But a glance at the act
shows that the property holders are not affected by the limitation. The value of the land is to be agreed upon, or, in the
absence of agreement, is to be found by appraisers to be appointed by the court. The intention expressed by Congress,
not to go beyond a certain expenditure, cannot be deemed a
direction to the appraisers to keep within any given limit in
valuing any particular piece of property. It is not unusual
for Congress, in making appropriations for thQ erection of
public buildings, including the purchase of sites, to name a
sum beyond which expenditure shall not be made, but nobody
ever thought that such a limitation had anything to do with
what the owners of property should have a right to receive in
case proceedings to condemn had to be resorted to." If it ap-peared by proof that the appropriation for the purpose indicated had been exhausted before the proceedings had been
commenced to take the land in controversy, or during the
hearing, then the provision in the joint resolution directing
that no obligation or liability upon the part of the government
should be incurred or any expenditure made except out of the
appropriations already made and to be made during the then
session of Congress, would give rise to a very serious question.
It is not now presented. Congress has the power, even now,
to appropriate" moneys for this purpose in addition to that
which it appropriated in the two acts of 1893 and 1894. This
court cannot, therefore, upon the record as it stands give judgment for the land owner on the ground that the appropriation
for the-land has been exhausted in other ways, and that Congress prohibited the incurring of any obligation to a greater
extent than the moneys then appropriated.
Third. Another objection taken in the court below, though

UNITED STATES v. GETTYSBURG ELECTRIC RIY.

685

Opinion of the Court.

not decided by that court, but which counsel for defendant in
error now urges as an additional ground for the affirmance of
the judgment, is that the land .proposed to be taken in this
proceeding was already devoted to another public use, to wit,
that of the railroad company, and that it does *notappear that
it was the intention of Congress to take land which was, devoted to another public use. The defendant in error concedes
what is without doubt true, that this is a question of intention
simply; the power of Congress to take land devoted to one
public use for another and a different public use upon making
just compensation cannot be disputed. Upon looking at the
two acts of Congress and the joint resolution of June 6, 1894,
above referred to, in the latter of wbich it is stated, "There is
imminent danger that portions of said battlefield may be irreparably defaced by the .construction of a railway over the
same, thereby making impracticable the execution of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1893," we think it is plainly
apparent that Congress did intend to take this very land, occupied and used by this company for its railroad.
Further elaboration is unnecessary. It is so plain to our
minds that extended argument would be unprofitable.
Fou t' . It is also objected that the exception below is
valid, wherein it is stated that all the land of the railroad company ought to be taken, if any were to be taken. The use for
which the land is to be taken having been determined to be a
public use, the quantity which should be taken is a legislative
and not a judicial question. Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282, 298. As to the effect of the taking upon the land
remaining, that is more a question of the amount of compensation. If the part taken by the government is essential to
enable the railroad corporation to perform its functions, or if
the value of the remaining property is impaired, such facts
might enter into'the question of the amount of the compensa-'
tion to be awarded. Aonongahela _Vav. Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 312, 333, 334.
_FftA. It is also objected that the petition does not allege
that the Secretary of War has decided it to be necessary
to take this land. A perusal of the petition shows that the

