KOHL v. LEHTLBACK.
Syllabus.

the decision was in favor of and not against the right thus
claimed under the laws of the United States, if such a right
could be treated as involved on this record, and this court
has no jurisdiction to review it. 21issouri v. Andriano, 138
U. S. 496, and cases cited. And, although denying plaintiff's
claim, defendant did not pretend to set up any right it had
under any statute of the United States in reference to the
effect of reduction in weight of silver coin by natural abrasion.
No other ground of jurisdiction under section -709 is suggested, and this is insufficient to maintain it.
WTit of error dismissed.

KOHL -v. LEHLBACK.
"PEAL

FROM THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 650. Argued December13, 1895. -Decided

December 23,1895.

In a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, verified by the petitioner's oath
as required by Rev. Stat. ยง 754, facts duly alleged may be taken to be
true, unless denied by the return or controlled by other evidence; but
no allegation of fact in the petition can be assumed to be admitted,
unless distinct and unambiguous.
General allegations in such a petition that the petitioner, is detained in
violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States or of the
particular State, and is held without due process of law, are averments
of conclusiong of law, and not of matters of fact.
It is for the state court, having jurisdiction of the offence charged in a
proceeding before it, and of the accused, to determine whether the
Indictment sufficiently charges the offence of murder in the first degree.
Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S. 655, affirmed and applied.
Independently of constitutional or statutory provisions allowing it, an
appeal to-a higher court of a State-fro a judgment of conviction in a
zlower court is not a matter of absolute right; and as it may be accorded
upon such terms as the State thinks proper, the refusal to grant a writ
pf error or to stay an execution does not warrant a Federal court to
Interfere in the prisoner's behalf by writ of habeas corpus.
When one of the jury by which a person accused of -murder is convicted is
an alien, and the accused takes no exception to his acting as a juror and
makes no challenge, and on trial is convicted and sentenced, it is for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
the state court to determine whether the verdict shall be set aside, since
as the disqualiflcdtion of alienage is only cause of challenge, which
may be waived, either voluntarily, or through negligence, or through
want of knowledge.

THIs was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Jersey, entered
fay 16, 1895, denying a writ of habeas corpus on the petition
of Henry Kohl therefor. Petitioner represented that he was
indicted in the court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery of Essex County, New Jersey, for the crime of
murder, in December, 1894; that he moved to quash the
indictment, which motion was denied, and an exception duly
taken; that his trial commenced January 1: and ended
January 25, 1895, in the rendition of a verdict of murder in
the first degree; that on February 12 applicati6n was made
for a new trial, and rule to show cause was granted and discharged February 14, 1895; that he was sentenced, February
21, to be hanged on March 21, 1895; and that he was unlawfully held in imprisonment by Herman Lehlback, sheriff of
Essex County, by virtue of said sentence.
It was also averred that "Samuel Ader, a juror on the jury
that convicted your petitioner, is not and never was a citizen
of the United States of America;" and that petitioner was
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution and
laws of the United States and of the State of New Jersey in
that petitioner was indicted for an offence having no existence
under the laws of New Jersey, which recognized no such
criine as murder, the common law crime of murder having
been divided by statute into two degrees, and the indictment
not having distinctly set out the statutory crime.
Petitioner further showed that on the twenty-seventh day
of February application for a writ of error was made to the
Chancellor of New Jersey, which was denied, and "that an
appeal had been duly taken from the order of the said chancellor to the Court of Errors and Appeals, where such
appeals are reviewable, and said appeal is now pending in
said Court of Errors and Appeals in the State of New Jersey."
It was further represented that petitioner was entitled, and

KORL v. 1LE]ELBACK.
Counsel for Parties.

desired, to have the verdict and all the proceedings on his
trial, various objections and exceptions thereto having been
made and taken, adjudicated by the highest courts of New
Jersey; "that on the sixth day of 'April last past,, your
petitioner's counsel, in open court, in 'the said Essex oyer and
terminer, in the presence of the prosecutor,! presented a writ
of error, signed by the clerk of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, sealed with the seal of ,said court, from the said
Supreme Court to the said oyer and terminer; that the said
court would not allow the writ, but permitted it to be filed
with the clerk of; said court. That said writ was presented
under and by virtue of the act of 1881 of New Jersey. That
the said act is valid and effectual; that the act of "1878 of
New Jersey made writs of etror writs of right in all cases;"
and further, "that the presiding judge of the said oyer and terminer court has instructed the clerk of Essex County, who is
the clerk of said oyer and terminer, not to furnish your petitioner's counsel with: a copy of the record and proceedings in
this cas6; that the Supreme Court of New Jersey has refused
your petitioier a stay of execution, and, your petitioner has
exhausted all remedies in the state court."
The petition then assigned in repetition the several grounds,
-on which it was contended that the conviction was unlawful,
to the effect that the indictment was insufficient; that petitioner had been denied by the State of New Jersey the equal
protection of the laws; and that petitioner's conviction not
only was in violation of the laws of New Jersey but of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, because not by due'process of law. And it was
further alleged that, under and by virtue of the sentence; the
sheriff of Essex County threatened to execute the sentence
of death on petitioner, May 16, to which time he had been
reprieved.
Mr. Arthur EnglisA for' appellant.
was on his brief.
Mr. Etvin W Crane for appellee.,

.Mr. Thomas S. Henry

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

MfR. Cm~E JuSToE FUL.E,
the opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered

In Whitten v. Tomlinson, ante, 231, the power vested in the
courts and judges of the United States to grant writs of habeas
corpus for the purpose of inquiring into the cause of the restraint
of liberty of persons held in custody under state authority, in
alleged violation of the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States, is considered, and the principles which should
govern their action in the exercise of this power stated; and attention is there called to the necessary and settled rule that, "in
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, verified by the oath of
the petitioner, as required by section 754 of the Revised Statutes, facts duly alleged may be taken to be true, unless denied
by the return, or controlled by other evidence, but no allegation of fact in the petition can be assumed to be admitted, unless
distinct and unambiguous;" and that "the general allegations
in the petition, that the petitioner is detained in violation of
the Constitution and laws of the United States, and of the
constitution and laws of the particular State, and is held without
due process of law, are averments of mere conclusions of law,
and not of matters of fact. Cuddy's ease, 131 U. S.280, 286."
1. Having jurisdiction of the offence charged and of the
accused, it was for the state courts to determine whether the
indictment in this case sufficiently charged the crime of murder in the first degree. Caldwell v. Teafas, 137 U. S.692, 698;
Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S.655.
In the latter case, it was decided, in reference to a similar
objection to the indictment to that made here, and upon an
examination of the statutes and judicial decisiobs of the highest
courts of New Jersey, that it could not be held that the accused was proceeded against under an indictment based upon
statutes denying to him the equal protection of the laws, or
that were inconsistent with due process of law, as prescribed
by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. Graves
v. State, 45 N. J. Law, 203; S. C. on appeal, 45 N. J. Law, 358;
Titus v. State, 49 N. J. Law, 36. We do not deem it necessary
to reconsider in this case the conclusion there reached.

KOBL v. LEHLBACKL
Opinion of the Court.

2. In .McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, we held that an
appeal to a higher court from a judgment of conviction is not.
a matter of absolute right independently of constitutional or
statutory provisions allowing it, and that a State may accord
it to a person convicted of crime upon such terms as it thinks
proper; and in Bergemann v. Backer, suyra, that the refusal
of the courts of New Jersey to grant a writ of error to a person convicted of murder, or to stay the execution of a sentence,
will not itself warrant a court of the United States in interfering in his behalf by writ of habeas corpus.
Appellant insists that he has been denied the equal protection of the laws because he has been deprived of a writ of
error for the review of the record and proceedings in his case
in violation of the laws of New Jersey.
Section 83 of the CriminalProcedure Act of New Jersey,
brought forward from section 13.of an act of March 6, 1795,
(Paterson's Laws N. J. 162,) provided that " writs of error in
all criminal cases not punishable 'with death, shall be considered- as writs of right, and issue of course; and in criminal
cases punishable with death, writs of error shall be considered
as writs of grace, and shall not issue but by order of the chancellor for the time being, made upon-motion or petition, notice
whereof shall always be given to the attorney general or the
prosecutor for the State?' Revision of New Jersey, 283. By
an act approved March 12, 1878, this section was amended so
as to read:, "Writs of error in all criminal cases shall be considered as writs of right and issue of course; but in criminal
cases punishable with death, writs of error shall be issued out
of and returnable to the Court of Errors and Appeals alone,
ana shall be heard and determined, at the term of said court
next after the judgment of the court below, unless for good
reasons the Court of Errors and Appeals shall continue the
cause to any subsequent term." Supp. Rev. N. J. 209, 210.
In Ektries v. State, 47 N. J. Law, 140, a writ of error under
this act was dismissed by the Court of Errors and Appeals,
the court holding that such a writ would not go directly from
that court to the oyer and terminer, and that "the legislature
cannot sanction such a proceeding, as it is one of the preroga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tives of the Supreme Court to exercise, in the first instance,
jurisdiction in such cases."
By an act of March 9, 1881, it was provided in the first section that "in case a writ of error shall be brought to remove
any judgment rendered in any criminal action or proceeding,
in any court of this State, and such writ of error shall be presented to such court, the said writ of error shall have the effect
of staying all proceedings upon the said judgment, and upon
the sentence which the court or any judge thereof may have
pronounced against the person or persons obtaining and prosecuting the said writ of error, pending and during the prosecution of such writ of error;" and by the second section, that
pending the prosecution of such writ of error, the court may
require the party prosecuting the writ to give bail, "provided,
that this section of this act shall not apply to capital cases."
Supp. Rev. 210. And by an act passed May 9, 1894, it was
provided that the entire record of the proceedings on the trial
of any criminal cause might be returned by the plaintiff in
error with the writ of error and form part thereof, and if it
appeared from said record that the plaintiff in error had suf-fered manifest wrong or injury in the matters therein referred
to, the appellate court might order a new trial. Laws of

N. J. 1894, 246.
Clearly whether a writ of error in criminal cases punishable
with death can or cannot be prosecuted under these various
acts, unless allowed by the chancellor of the State under section 83 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and if so, under what
circumstances and on what conditions, are matters for the
state courts to determine. Petitioner alleged that an appeal
from the chancellor's order refusing a writ of error was pending in the Court of Errors and Appeals, and also that a writ
of error signed by the clerk of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey and sealed with the seal of that court, from the Supreme
Court to the oyer and terminer, had been presented to the
latter court under the act of 1881, but that the court of oyer
and terminer would not allow the writ and instructed its clerk
not to furnish a copy of the record and proceedings. It is,
however, averred that the Supreme Court had refused a stay

IKOEL v. LEHLBACK.
Opinion of the Court.

of execution, so that it would appear that if that court really
issued a writ of error, it had either arrived at the conclusion
that this was improvidently done or that for other reasons it
could not be maintained.
And the petition set up no action by the Supreme Court to
compel its.writ to be respected and no effort on petitioner's
part to procure such action, nor any effort to supply a copy of
the record and proceedings. Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506,
512.
The averments in reference .to this matter are so vague and
indefinite that interference might well be declined for that
*reason. At all events, inasmuch as the right of review in an
appellate court is purely a matter of state concern, we can
neither anticipate nor overrule -the action of the state courts
in that regard, since a denial of the right altogether would
constitute no violation of the Constitution of the United
States. What petitioner asks us to do is to construe the laws
of New Jersey for ourselves, hold that they give a writ of
error to the Supreme Court, and discharge petitioner on the
ground either that the courts of New Jersey have arrived at a
different conclusion and denied the writ, or have granted it
and refused to make it effectual. In either aspect, we are
unable thus to revise the proceedings.in those courts.
3. It is further contended that petitioner was denied due
process of law and the equal protection of the laws in that
one of the jurors by whom he was tried was an alien. The
allegation of the petition. is "that Samuel Ader, a juror on the
jury that convicted your petitioner, is not and never was a
citizen of the United States of America."
Nothing is said as to when this matter came to petitioner's
knowledge, and for aught that appears, it may have been
inquired into by the courts of New Jersey, and the fact determined to be otherwise than alleged, or the objection may have
been raised after verdict -and overruled because coming too
late. The statute of New Jersey provides that every petit
juror returned for the trial of any action of a criminal nature
shall be a citizen of the State, and resident within the county
from -which he shall be taken, and above the age of twenty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

one and under the age of sixty-five years; and if any person,
who is not so qualified, shall be summoned as a juror on a
trial of any such action in any of the courts of the State, it
shall be good cause of challenge to any such juror, "provided,
that no exception to any such- juror on account of his citizenship, or age, or any other legal disability, shall be allowed
after he has been sworn or affirmed." Revision N. J. 532.
This proviso is brought forward from an act of November 10,
1797, (Acts 22d Gen. Ass. N. J., 1797, 250). The constitution
of New Jersey of 1716 provided that "the inestimable right
of trial by jury shall remain confirmed as a part of the law of
this colony, without repeal, forever." And the constitution
of 1844 declares that "the right of trial by jury shall remain
inviolate." It is urged that the above mentioned proviso,
which has been part of the laws of New Jersey for nearly one
hundred years, should now be held by this court contrary to
the constitution of that State, although the courts of the State
may have held it in this case in harmony therewith, and have
certainly not pronounced it invalid.
The line of argument seems to be that by the common law
as obtaining in New Jersey an alien was disqualified from
serving on a jury; that the disqualification was absolute; that
the common law could not be changed in that particular under
the state constitution; that the proviso was, therefore, void;
and that, if an alien sat upon a jury, the common law right of
trial by jury would have been invaded. So far as the petition
shows, this contention may have been disposed of adversely
to petitioner by the state courts; and, moreover, we are of
opinion that in itself it cannot be sustained as involving an
infraction of the Constitution of the United States.
In Hollingsworth v. Duane, reported in Wallace C. C. Reports, 147, and also, but imperfectly, in 4 Dall. 353, it was
held by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, at October term, 1801, that alienage
of a juror is cause of challenge, but it is not per se sufficient
to set aside a verdict, and this whether the party complaining
knew of the fact or not; and that this was the rule at common law as shown by authorities cited from the Year Books
and otherwise.

KOEL v. LEHLBAOK.
Opinion of the Court.

In Wassum v. Feeney, 121 Mass. 93, the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts held that: "A verdict will not be set
aside because one of the jurors was an infant, where his name
was on the list of jurors returned and empanelled, though the
losing party did not know of the infancy until after the verdict." And Mr. Justice Gray, then Chief Justice of Massaz
chusetts, delivering the opinion,, said: "When a party has
had an opportunity of challenge, no disqualification of a juror
entitles him to a new trial after verdict. This convenient and
necessary rule has been applied by this court, not. only to a
juror disqualified by interest or relation, Jefries v. Randall,
14 Mass. 205; W7oodward v. Dean, 113 Mass. 297; but, even
in a capital case, to a juror who was not of the county or
vicinage, as required by the Constitution. Declaration of
Rights, art. 13; Anon., cited by Jackson, J., in 1 Pick. 41,
42. The same rule has been applied by other courts to disqualification by reason of alienage, although not in fact known
until after verdict. Hollingsworthv. Duane, 4 Dall. 353; S. C.
Wall. C. C. 147; State v. Quarrel, 2 Bay, 150; Presbury v.
Commonwealth, 9 Dana, 203; The Zing v. Sutton., 8 B. & C.
.417; S. C., nor., The King v. Despar, 2 Man. & Ry. 406.
In the Case of the Chelsea Waterworks Co., 10 Exch. 731,
Baron Parke said: "In the case of a trial by jury de medietate
linguce, which by the 47th section of the jury act is expressly
reserved to an alien, he may not know whether proper persons are on the jury ; yet if he was found guilty, and sentenced
to death, the verdict would not be set aside because he was
tried by improper persons, for he ought .to have challenged
See also the Case of a Jwyman, 12 East, 231, note;
them.'
Hill v. Yates, 12 East, 229.
The great weight of authority is to that effect,' though
1Wharton's Case,.Yelv, 24; 1 Inst. 158 a; 21 Vin. Abr. 274, Trial; 2 Hale
P. C. c. 36, 271; -2 Hawk. P. C. 568, 572; Queen v. Hepburn, 7 Cranch, 290;
Brewer v. Jacobs, 22 Fed. Rep. 217; Gillespie v. State, 8 Yerger, 507; Costly
v. State, 19 *Ga. 614, 628; Siller v. Cooper,.4 Bibb, 90; State v. .7unger, 14
La. Ann. 461; State v. .Beeder, 44 La. Ann. 1007; Foreman v. Hunter, 59
Iowa, 550; State v. Patrick, 3 Jones (N. C.), 443; Brown v..State, 52 Ala. 34 5, Brown v. Peple, 20 Col 161; State v. Jackson, 27 Kans. 581, and cases

There collected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

there are a few cases to the contrary. Thus in Guykowski v.
People, 1 Scam. 476, it was held that a new trial should be
granted because one of the jurors was an alien when sworn,
of which fact the defendant was ignorant at the time; but in
Greenup v. Stoker, 3 Gilm. 202, the Supreme Court of Illinois,
through Purple, J., reluctantly concluded that it was not
indispensable to hold that that case was not the law, but limited its application to capital cases; and in Chase v. People,
40 Illinois, 352, it was finally overruled. ]Mir. Justice Breese
spoke for the. court, and it was held that alienage in a juror
was not a positive disqtialification, but ground of exemption
or of challenge, and nothing more.
It has been held that, under the constitution of New York,
the defendant in a capital case cannot consent to be tried by
less than a full jury of twelve men, Cancemi v. People, 18
N. Y. 128, and that, under the constitution of California, a law
authorizing a change of the place of trial of a criminal action
to another county than that where the crime was committed
on application of the prosecution without defendant's consent,
was invalid, People v. Powell, 87 California, 348; but in
neither of these cases was it intimated that objection to individual jurors could not be waived by the accused or that trial
by jury would be violated if persons who were open to challenge
The disqualification of alienage
happened to be empanelled.
is cause of challenge propter defectum, on account of personal
objection, and if, voluntarily, or through. negligence, or want
of knowledge, such objection fails to be insisted on, the conclusion that the judgment is thereby invalidated is wholly
inadmissible. The defect is not fundamental as affecting the
substantial rights of the accused, and the verdict is not void
for want of power to render it. anited States v. Gale, 109
'U.S.65, 72. Whether, where the defendant is without fault
and may have been prejudiced, a new trial may not be granted
on'such a ground, is another question. That is not the inquiry
here, but whether the law of New Jersey is invalid under the
constitution of that State, and this judgment void because one
of the jurors who tried petitioner may have been an alien. If,
prior to the filing of the petition, the objection had been

