OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

The Circuit Courts of the United States have cognizance
of suits as provided by the acts of Congress, and when their
jurisdiction as Federal courts has attached, they possess and
exercise all the powers of courts of 'superior general jurisdiction. Accordingly they entertain and dispose of interventions and the like on familiar and recognized principles of
general law and practice, but the ground on which their
jurisdiction as courts of the United States rests is to be found
in the statutes, and to that source must always be attributed.
Manifestly, the decree in the main suit cannot be revised
tnrough an appeal from a decree on ancillary or supplemental proceedings, thus accomplishing indirectly what could
not be done directly. And even if the decree on such proceedings may be in itself independent of the controversy
between the original parties, yet if the proceedings are entertained in the Circuit Court because of its possession of the
subject of the ancillary or supplemental application, the disposition of the latter must partake of the finality of the
main decree, and cannot be brought here on the theory that
the Circuit Court exercised jurisdiction independently of the
ground of jurisdiction which was originally invoked as giving
cognizance to that court as a court of the United States.
Appeal dismissed.

CHEMICAL BANK v. CITY BANK OF PORTAGE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 736. Submitted January 7, 1896.-

Decided January27, 1896.

By authority of the directors of a national bank in Chicago, which had
acquired some of its own stock, the individual note of its cashier, secured by a pledge of that stock was, through a broker in Portage, sold
to a bank there. The note not being paid at maturity the Portage Bank
sued the Chicago Bank in assumpsit, declaring specially on the note,
which it alleged was made by the bank in the cashier's name, and also
setting out the common counts. The bank set up that the purchase of
its own stock was illegal and that money borrowed to pay a debt con-

CHEMICAL BANK v. CITY BANK OF PORTAGE.

64:7

Statement of the Case.
tracted for that purpose was equally forbidden by Rev. Stat. ยง 5201.
The trial court was requested by the Chicago Bank to rule several propositions of law, and declined to do so. Judgment was then entered
for the Portage Bank. The Supreme Court of the State of Illinois held
that the Portage Bank was entitled to recover under the common counts,
and that it was not necessary to consider whether the trial court had
ruled correctly on the propositions of law submitted to it. Held, that
that court, in rendering such judgment, denied no title, right, privilege,
or immunity specially set up or claimed under the laws of the United
States, and that the writ of error must be dismissed.

THis was an action of assumpsit brought by the City Bank
of Portage against the Chemical National Bank of Chicago,
in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois. The declaration contained a special count upon a note signed by C. E.
Braden, which it was alleged was made by defendant in that
name; and the common counts. The defendant pleaded the
general issue and a plea denying the execution of the note
described in the special count. A jury was waived and the
cause submitted to the court for trial.
Under the practice act of Illinois, where a trial is by the
court, either party may, submit to the court written propositions to be held as law in the decision of the case, upon
which the court shall write 'refused' or 'held,' as he shall
be of opinion is the law, or modify the same, to which either
party may except as to other opinions of the court." Rev.
Stat. Ill. c. 110, ยง 42; 2 Starr & Curt. 1808.
Defendant requested the court to hold as law in the decision of the case the eight propositions given in the margin.'
1 1. If the court finds from the evidence that some of the directors of
the Chemical National Bank of Chicago were desirous of purchasing shares
of the capital stock of said bank for themselves, individually; that in pursuance of such desire they instructed the president of said bank to purchase such an amount of said shares of stock not exceeding $100,000 par
value, as might be offered at par, stating to him that they would take te
stock so purchased at different times as their money came in; that in pursuance of such instruction the president of said 'bank caused a broker to
purchase fifty shares of said capital stock, and in payment for said stock
one Hopkins, assistant cashier of said bank, gave to said broker his individual note for the purchase price of said stock, payable on demaud; that
thereafter, payment of said note being demanded of said Hopkins, the pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Of these the court refused to hold propositions numbered one,
two, three, four, six, and eight, and also proposition numbered
six "if it appears that the bank, its officers knowing the facts,
used the money;" and defendant excepted. The court held
propositions numbered five and seven. The issues were found
in favor of plaintiff, and judgment entered on the finding,
and, the case having been taken to the Appellate Court for
the first district of Illinois, the judgment of the Superior
Court was affirmed. 55 Ill. App. 251. And this judgment of
the Appellate Court was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State on appeal. 156 Illinois, 149. Thereupon a writ
of error from this court was sued out.
There was evidence tending to show that in 1893 the Chemical National Bank had taken some of its own stock in payident and cashier of said bank paid said note out of the moneys of said
bank, and thereupon it was arranged by and between the president, the
cashier, and the assistant cashier, that the cashier, Braden, should execute
his Individual note for $5000 to a broker; that fifty shares of said stock
so purchased should be transferred upon the books of the bank to said
Braden, and attached to said note to be given to said broker as collateral
security; that said broker should procure said note to be discounted, and
that the money realized by discounting said note should be paid into the
moneys of the bank to replace the money of the bank used in paying the
Hopkins note, and that in pursuance of such arrangement said Braden gave
the note in controversy, and the same was discounted and the proceeds
were deposited with the moneys of the Chemical National Bank of Chicago, then the court should find that said note was the individual note of
said Braden, and not the note of the defendant, and should find the issues
in favor of the defendant.
2. If the court believes the testimony given by 3. 0. Curry in this case
to be true and to be a correct statement of the circumstances connected
with the execution by Braden of the note sued on, then the court must find
the issues joined in favor of the defendant.
3. Although the court may believe the testimony of Braden to be true,
yet his testimony with all inferences that may be justifiably drawn therefrom in favor- of the plaintiff does not justify a finding in favor of the
pLaintiff.
4. The fact that the money realized upon the note in suit was received
by the Chemical National Bank of Chicago does not make said Chemical
National Bank of Chicago liable upon said note; and this is true notwithstanding it was agreed by and between Curry, Braden, and Hopkins that the
note should be treated as a note of the Chemical National Bank of Chicago
and paid by it.

CHEMICAL BANX v. CITY BANK OF PORTAGE.

649

Statement of the Case.

ment of a debt; that Hopkins, assistant cashier, had given to
a firm of brokers his note payable on call, secured by part of
this stock as collateral; that the brokers procured the money
on the note and paid it to the bank, the assistant cashier not
getting any of it; and that after the note had run fifteen
days the holders called it in and it was paid out of the
moneys of the bank. It was then agreed between Curry,
president, Braden, cashier, and Hopkins, assistant cashier,
that the bank should raise five thousand dollars through a
broker in Minneapolis, by giving a note in Braden's name,
payable to the broker and with the stock as coflateral, and
that, as the bank was to have the money, the note should be
the bank's obligation and be paid by it. In carrying out
this arrangement the note in suit was given, being signed
by Braden in his own name and not as cashier, and'made
5. A national banking association is prohibited by law from purchasing
shares of its own capital stock unless such purchase shall be necessary to
prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith.
6. The purchase by officers of a national banking association of shares
of its own capital stock unless such purchase is necessary to prevent loss
upon a debt previously contracted in good faith, cannot be regarded as a
transaction of the association itself unless expressly authorized by its
board of directors and a note executed by an officer in his own individual
name for the purpose of borrowing money to make such a purchase cannot be regarded as the note of the association unless recognized as such
by its board of directors and unless the lender parted with his money upon
the faith of the liability of the association.
7. There is no evidence in this case'legally sufficient to justify a finding
that the plaintiff at the time it accepted the note in controversy and advanced money on the same had any knowledge whatever that Braden was
not the real principal or that it advanced any money on the note upon the
faith of any supposed liability of the defendant upon said note.
8. Although a corporation may be held liable upon a contract that is
ultra vires or prohibited by law, when such contract has been fully executed
by the other party, yet where such contract has been entered.into by an
officer of the corporation in his own individual name, and the other party,
at the time he performed the same on his part, had no knowledge that the
.same was for the benefit of the corporation and did not part with any money
or property on the faith of the liability of the corporation upon the contract,
but, on the contrary, executed the contract on his part in reliance solely
upon the individual liability of such officer, such other party cannot enforce
such contract against the corporation as an undisclosed principal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

payable to the Minneapolis broker; and fifty shares of the
stock held by the bank were issued in Braden's name and
attached to the note as collateral. Braden did not own this
stock; received none of the money; and had no personal interest in the transaction. The note was sent to the broker
at Minneapolis, who endorsed it without recourse, procured
the money-from the City Bank of Portage, and sent it to the
Chemical National Bank. He advanced no money on the note
either to Braden or the bank; did not owe Braden anything;
and the note was given by Braden to him purely as a means
of raising money for the bank. There was also evidence that
the board of directors of the Chemical National Bank, at a
meeting thereof, had authorized the president to buy stock of
the bank when offered for sale at par up to $100,000, agreeing to take it as soon as they could, but that no entry of
this authority was made on the bank's records; that the
money obtained on Hopkins' note was used in making such a
purchase; and that the stock which was annexed to the Hopkins note and to that in suit was a part of the stock purchased
under these circumstances, and not part of that taken by the
bank upon a debt; of all which the City Bank of Portage had
no notice.
The defence was that the purchase by the bank of its own
stock was illegal; that it was equally illegal for the bank to
borrow money to replace money paid out in making such a
purchase; that that was what this transaction amounted to;
and that plaintiff could not recover because the money was
obtained and used for a purpose forbidden by section 5201
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which is as follows:
"1No association shall make any loan or discount on the security of the shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser
or holder of any such shares, unless such security or purchase
shall be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith; and stock so purchased or acquired
shall, within six months from the time of its purchase, be sold
or disposed of at public or private sale; or, in default thereof,
a receiver may be appointed to close up the business of the

* CHENICAL BANK v. CITY -BANK OF PORTAGE..

651

Statement of the Case.
association, according to section fifty-two hundred and thirtyfour."
The Supreme Court held that the plaintiff was entitled to.
recover under the common counts; that it was unimportant to
consider- whether the Superior Court ruled correctly on. the
propositions of law requested on behalf of defendant sin~e they
all related to the right of recovery on the note; and the court
said:
"Curry, president of the Chemical National Bank, was
balled as a witness, and it may be inferred from his evidence,
although he does not state the fact, that the bank stock procured by the bank was not taken in on a debt, but was
purchased. Conceding that the Qhemical National Bank pur-"
chased fifty shares of its own stock, contrary to the provisions
of the national banking act, does that unlawful act so pollute
the transaction between plaintiff and defendant, under which
plaintiff loaned its money, that the defendant may keep the
money and the plaintiff bear the loss? If the facts were as
claimed by counsel, they would not defeat a -recovery on the
part of, plaintiff. The purchase of the stock and the borrowing of the money from plaintiff were two distinct transactions.
In the purchase of the stock the money used by the defendant
in payment was raised.on the note of Hopkins, assistanat cashier. Afterwards the bank paid the Hopkins note with its own
funds, and this ended the transaction so far as the purchose of
stock was concerned. After this transaction was-ended the
bank applied to the plaintiff for a loan of money and obtained
it, placing the bank stock previously-obtained in, the. hands of
plaintiff as collateral. The plaintiff did not know,where, of
whom or in what manner the Chemical lNational Bank had
acquired the bank stock turned over as collateral, nor did it
know what use'that bank would make of the money loaned.
Moreover, this money was not loaned by plaintiff to pay for
bank stock, and, so far as appears, it was never used for that
purpose. So far as appears from the evidence there was nothing illegal in the transaction between plaintiff and defendant
which resulted in the loan of $50060."

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

3tr. Hiriam T. Gilbert for plaintiff in error.
Samuel P. AcOonnell
Xr. Daniel Kent Tenney and .Mr.
for defendant in error.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Illinois in
rendering judgment denied no title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by defendant under the
laws of the United States, and that this writ of error cannot
be maintained.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the state court
decided "either, first, that the cashier, Braden, by virtue of
his office, had, under the laws of the United States regulating national banks, implied authority to borrow money in
the name of the defendant and bind it to repayment thereof;
or, second, that the transaction out of which the discounting
of the Braden note arose, which transaction consisted of the
original purchase of the fifty shares of the bank's stock, the
giving of the Hopkins note, and the payment thereof out of
the moneys of the bank was one which, in law, could be regarded as a transaction of the bank." And that therefore
the state court decided against an immunity from liability
expressly set up or claimed by the Chemical National Bank
undef the laws of the United States.
The Appellate Court reviewed the judgment of the Superior Court for errors committed on the trial, and, finding
none, affirmed it, and the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Appellate Court; and if no such claims were set
up in the trial court, the Supreme Court, in approving the
affirmance of its judgment by the Appellate Court, could not
be held'to have decided against a claim with which the trial
court had not been called upon to deal. It does not appear
that the immunity from liability was expressly claimed by
plaintiff in error in the trial court on the ground that the
bank could retain the money because it was obtained by
means in excess of the powers of its cashier or other officers.

CHEMIAL B=NK I'. CITY BANK OF PORTAE.

6853

Opinion of the Court.

The propositions on which the trial court was aske to rule
were manifestly directed to the right of recovery on the note
as such, under the special count, and certainly fell far short
of a .claim of the character suggested as a defence to a recovery under the common counts. Moreover, the question of
liability, whatever the authority of these bank officers to borrow this money for the bank, depended upon general principles of law applicable under the particular facts. We9rn
National Bank v. Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, 352, 353.
Nor can we perceive that the Supreme Court denied, any
"immunity from liability claimed as arising out of the purchase
by the bank of its own stock other than to prevent loss on
previous indebtedness. The decision of the Supreme Court
rested on the fact that that purchase of stock and the loaning
of the money from the City Bank of Portage were two distinct
transactions, and this was a ground broad enough to sustain
the judgment without deciding any Federal question at all.
It is said that the Supreme Court had no power to decide
any controverted question of fact, but we cannot review the
decision of .that court in that respect, even if the position
were well taken; and we do not understand that the Supreme
Court did so decide. It is true that, under sections 87 and
89 of the Practice Act, the Supreme Court of Illinois does
not redxamine controverted, questions of fact, but it nevertheless examines the evidence bearing upon the issues of fact
determined to see what principles of law are involved in a cont~oversy, and whether they are properly applied by the trial
court. Sexton v. Ohicago, 107 Illinois, 323, 326; Postal Telegrplb Co. v. .Latkrop,131 Illinois, 575, 580. In this case the
Supreme Court recapitulated the evidence as being that on
which the trial court rendered judgment in order to disclose
the basis of the ruling that plaintiff was entitle.d to recover.
The affirmance by the Appellate Court of the judgment of
the trial court without any. recital of the facts found conclusively settles all controverted questions of fact necessary to
support the judgment. Utica & Deer Park'Bridge Co. v.
Iron Commissioners, 101 Illinois, 518; Bernstein v. Both, 145
Illinois, 189. If the Appellate Court disposes of a cause on

