IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. IOWA.

389

Syllabus.

his back upon every source of information, does not even enter
the house, makes no examination as to whether the property
was in litigation, and buys it of collateral heirs of Miller, subject to his widow's dower if he had had the title, to an unpaid
mortgage, and to the chances of the Iproperty being required
for the payment of Miller's debts. ' It is clear that a purchase
made under such circumstances does not clothe the vendee
with the rights of a bonaflde purchaser without notice.
We see no reason for impeaching the original purchase of
the land by Mrs. Tallmadge. Her account of the transaction
is supported by the testimony of all the witnesses, as well as
by the receipts and other docuinentary evidence. Her failure
to cause the deed to be recorded is: not an unusual piece of
carelessness, nor is it an infrequent cause of litigation. Under
the circumstances of the case, it raises no presumption of fraud.
What motives she may have had for .taking the title to the
property in the name of Mr. Miller is entirely immaterial to
the present controversy, although it appears from her testimony that she was possessed of imoney in her own right, and
took this method of investing it.
The decree of the court below..is; therefore,

Iffirmned.

IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY '. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Ho. 128. Submitted December 18, :1895. -Decided

January 6, 1896.

The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution in no way undertakes to
control the power of a State to determine by what process legal rights
may be asserted, or legal obligations be enforced, provided themethod
of procedure adopted for these purposes gives reasonable notice, and
affords fair opportunity to be heard, before the issues are decided.
Whether the court of last resort of a State has properly construed its own
constitution and laws in determining that a summary process under those
laws was applicable to the matter which it adjudged, is purely the decision of a question of state law, binding upon this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
This court has no power to review a decision of a state court that the
averments of an answer in a pending case set forth no defence to the
plaintiff's claim.
It is no denial of a right protected by the Constitution of the United States
to refuse a jury trial in a civil cause pending in a state court, even though
it be clearly erroneous to construe the laws of the State as justifying the
refusal.

IN 1880, the Central Iowa Railway Company, which had
become the owner, through foreclosure proceedings, of the
railroad of the Central Railway Company of Iowa, leased to
the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Company about
eleven miles of said road, which lay between Manly Junction
and Northwood, the northern terminus of the Central company's road. The Burlington company took exclusive possession of the leased premises. In 1881 the citizens of Northwood
made application to the state railroad commissioners for an
order requiring the Central Iowa Railway Company to operate
such leased portion of its road, and after due notice a hearing
was had before the commissioners, and, in 1883, the order
prayed for was granted. As the company failed to obey, an
action was brought, pursuant to chapter 133, Iowa laws of
1884, to compel compliance with the order of the commissioners. The state district court rendered a decree against
the railroad company, and on appeal, after a hearing and
overruling of a motion for -rehearing, the Supreme Court of
the State, in October, 1887, entered a decree, ordering, adjudging,. and decreeing that the Central Iowa Railway Company
operate such leased portion of its line, and enjoining the Burlington company from interference therewith. The opinion of
the Supreme Court is.reported in 71 Iowa, 410.
During the pendency of this litigation, however, foreclosure
proceedings were instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Iowa, against the Central
Iowa Railway Company, and, while the cause was pending in
the Supreme Court of Iowa, on the appeal of the company a
receiver of its property was appointed. A decree of foreclosure was entered, and, in September, 1887, the road was
sold. Subsequently, the purchaser assigned his purchase to

IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. IOWA.

391

Statement of the Case.

the Iowa Railway Company, a corporation of Iowa, -which
company thereafter made conveyance to plaintiff in error
herein, an Illinois corporation, and the receiver surrendered
possession to it on M[ay 30, 1889.
In August, 1889, the Attorney General of the State of Iowa
filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the State, in the name
of the State as plaintiff, against the Iowa Central Railway
Company, alleging the entry of the decree of October, 1887,
above referred to; that thereafter the Iowa Railway Company
had become the successor, assignee, and grantee of the Central
Iowa Railway Company, and was operating and running its
line contrary to the terms and provisions of the decree and in
violation thereof. A mandatory injunction was prayed to
compel the defendant to obey the command. and order contained in said decree.
A copy of said petition with notice of an intention to apply
for an order to show cause why the order and decree referred
to should not be obeyed, was served upon the railway company. That company filed its answer and amendments
thereto, which, in substance, set forth that it was not a party
to the suit in which the decree was rendered ; that the Central Iowa Railway Company at the time of the entering of
the decree was dead to all intents and purposes, by' reason
of the fact that a receiver had theretofore been appointed and
the road of the company sold under foreclosure; that defendant was not the successor, assignee, or grantee of said Central
Iowa Railway Company and had not been adjudged so to be;
that no demand had been made upon it t 9 perform the decree,
and that a mandatory writ ought not to be issued until it bad
an opportunity of testing in a regular manner the right of the
State to require the performance of the decree in question.
The defendant also filed a demand for a jury trial. Thereupon a motion was made on behalf of the State to enter the
order prayed for in the petition, upon the ground that the
defendant in its answer had not shown cause why such order
should not be made, and for the further reason that from the
record and pleadings in the proceeding it appeared that the
plaintiff was entitled to such order. Plaintiffs motion'for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment was granted, and on October 26, 1891, an entry
was made in the cause in the words and figures following:
"In this cause the court, being fully advised in the premises,
file their written decision and find that plaintiff is entitled to
an order for the operation of the road by defendant as prayed
for, and that a writ issue accordingly. It is further considered
by the court that the defendant pay the costs of this court,
taxed at $22.75, and that execution issue therefor."
The cause was then brought to this court by writ of error.
Mr. Anthony C. Daly for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.Milton Remley, Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
for defendant in error.
JM. JusTicE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the proceeding instituted against it in the Supreme Court of Iowa was an
action for mandamus, and that no such action could lawfully
be brought to compel it to operate the leased portion of its
road until its legal duty to do so had been previously determined by the verdict of a jury. There was no assertion that
the court below had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter.
Nowhere in the answer or in the amendments to the answer
filed on behalf of the company was it claimed that the proceeding was violative of the Constitution of the United States,
or assailed any right, title, privilege, or immunity specially
set up or claimed under that Constitution. Indeed, there was
no mention of any right thereunder until the filing of a brief
for defendant entitled "Defendant's Resistance and Objection
to Plaintiff's Motion to Enter Order Prayed for in the Petition," in the ninth paragraph whereof it was claimed that it
would be a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States to grant the order prayed
for upon the motion in qu'estion. It is apparent that this defence merely asserted that the rights of the corporation as a

IOWA CENTRAL RAILWAY COM[A1NY v. IOWA.

893

Opinion of the Court.

citizen of the United States would be impaired by enforcing
the claim urged against it on the motion, instead of by
another and less summary form of action. But it is clear that
the Fourteenth Amendment in no way undertakes to control
the power of a State to determine by what process legal rights
may be asserted or legal obligations be enforced, provided the
method of procedure adopted for these purposes gives reasonable notice and affords fair opportunity to be heard before
the issues are decided. This being the case, it was obviously
not a right, privilege, or immunity of a citizen .of the United
States to have a-controversy in the state court prosecuted or
determined by one form. of action instead of by another. It
is also equally evident, provided the form sanctioned by the
state law gives notice and affords an opportunity to be heard,
that the mere question of whether it was by a motion or ordinary action in no way rendered the proceeding not due process
of law within the constitutional meaning of those words.
Whether the court of last resort of the State of Iowa properly
construed its own constitution and laws in determining that
the summary process under those laws was applicable to the
matter which it adjudged, was purely the decision of a question of state law, binding upon this court. Mere irregularities
in the procedure, if any, were matters solely for the consideration of the judicial tribunal within the State empowered by
the laws of the State to review and correct errors committed
by its courts. Such errors affect merely matters of state law
and practice, in no way depending upon the Constitution of
the United States or upon any act of Congress. Lu1ding v.
&Y.cafe, 143 U. S.301, 305.
As said by this court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, in Leeqer v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 468: "Law in its
regular course of administration through courts of justice is
due process, and when secured by the law of the State the
constitutional requirement is satisfied." There' was a "regular course of administration" in the case at bar, as that ter m
was employed in the case cited.
It is manifest that it was never contemplated by the franieri
of the Constitution that this court should sit in review, as an

