In re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner.

247

Syllabus.

as well as the question whether the word "resides," as used in
the statute, implies domicil, or only presence'in the counity, is
a question which should be left to the decision of the courts
of the State.
There could be no better illustration than this case affords
of the wisdom, if not necessity, of the rule, established by the
decisions of this court, above cited, that a prisoner in custody
under the authority of a State should not, except in a case of
peculiar urgency, be discharged by a court or judge of the
United States upon a writ of habeas corpus, in advance of any

proceedings in the courts of the State to test the validity of
his arrest and detention.

To adopt a different -rule would

unduly interfere with the exercise of the criminal jurisdiction
of the several States, and with the performance by this court
of its appropriate duties.
Order afflrmed.

In Pe SANFORD FORK AND TOOL COMIPANY,
Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Ko. 8. OriginaL. Submitted December 2,1895. -Decided December 28,1895.
When a case has once been decided by this court on appeal, and remanded
to the Circuit Court, that court must execute the decree of this court
according to the mandate. If it does not, its action may be controlled,
either by a new appeal, or by writ of mandamus; but it may consider and
'decide any matters left open by the mandate; and its decision of such
matters can be reviewed by a new appeal only. The opinion delivereId
by this court, at the time of rendering its decree, may be consulted to
ascertain what was-intended by the mandate; and, either upon an application for a writ of mandamus, or upon a new appeal, it is for this court
to construe its own mandate.
When the Circuit Court, at a hearing upon exceptions to an answer in equity,
sustains the exceptions, and (the defendant electing to stand by his
answer) enters a final decree for the plaintiff; and this court,, upon
appeal, orders that decree to be reyersed, and the cause remanded for
'further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion; thd plaintiff is
entitled to ifie a replication, and'may be allowed by the Circuit Court to
amend his bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

This was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Honorable William A. Woods, as Judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Indiana, to command him to
enter, in a suit in equity pending before him, a final decree in
favor of the present petitioners, defendants in that suit, in
accordance with a mandate of this court upon reversing a
decree of that court, on an appeal reported as Sanford Fork &
Tool Co. v. Howe, Brown & Co., 157 U. S.312.
By the former opinion and mandate of this court, the petition for a mandamus, and the return to the rule to show cause,
the case appeared to be as-follows:
A bill in equity was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana, by creditors of the Sanford
Fork and. Tool Company, against that company and certain of
its directors and stockholders, to set aside a mortgage made
by the company to the other defendants to secure them for
their indorsements of promissory notes of the company:
To that bill the defendants filed an answer under oath, insisting that the mortgage was valid; and the plaintiffs filed
exceptions to the answer, upon the ground that the matters
therein averred were insufficient to constitute a defence to the
bill or to any part th 'eof, as well as upon the ground that
the defendants had not duly answered specific allegations of
the bill. The Circuit Court, held by Judge Woods, after
hearing arguments upoi those exceptions, sustained them;
and the defendants declir ing to plead further, and electing to
stand by their answer, lhe court, "having considered the
pleadings, and being fully 9.dvised in the premises," entered a
final decree, adjudging the mortgage to be void as against the
plaintiffs, and granting themt the relief prayed for.
The defendants appealed to this court, which, after hearing
the appeal, delivered an opinion beginning thus: "In the
absence of any testimony, and in the manner in which this
case was submitted for decision, it must be assumed that the
matters alleged in the bill and not denied in the answer, and
the new matters set forth in the answer, are true. And the
question which arises is, whether, upon- these admitted facts,
the decree in favor of the plaintiffs can be sustained." 15'r

'In re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner.

249

Statement of thfe Case.

U. S. 316. This coutt, for reasons stated in that opinion,
held that the mortgage was valid, and, therefore, that the
Circuit Court erred; and in the opinion, as well as by its
mandate sent down to the Circuit Court, ordered the decree
of that court to be "reversed, and the cause remanded to that
court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
of this court." The mandate concluded,.in usual form, as
follows: "You, therefore, are hereby commanded that such
execution and further proceedings be had in said cause, in
conformity with the opinion and decree of this court, as
according to right and justice, and the laws of the United
States, ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding."
The defendants presented the mandate and a certified copy
of the opinion of this court to the Circuit Court, held by
Judge Woods; and moved for a final decree that the former
decree of the Circuit Court be reversed; that the cause be
held to have been submitted by the jlaintiffs upon bill and
answer; and that, upon the facts alleged in the bill and
answer, the law is with thedefendants, and the plaintiffs take
nothing by their bill, and the defendants have judgment
for their costs.
The Circuit Court overruled the motion of the defendants;
and, on motion of the plaintiffs, granted leave to amend the
bill; but stayed proceedings to enable the defendants to apply
to this court for a writ of mandamus.
The petition to this court for a writ of mandamus alleged
that the order of the Circuit Court, overruling the motion of
the defendants for a.final decree in their favor, and granting
the motion of the plaintiffs for leave to amend their bill, was
inconsistent with and in violation of the opinion, decree and
mandate of this court; and prayed for a writ of mandamus to
Judge Woods to grant the motion of the defendants, and to
overrule the motion of the plaintiffs.
This court granted a rule to show cause, in the return to
which Judge Woods stated that his action, complained of by
the petitioners, arose upon his construction of the opinion and
mandate of this court on reversing his former decree; and set
forth his view of the matter as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"Exceptions had been improperly sustained to the answer
.of defendants (petitioners). For this error, as respondent construes the opinion and mandate, the decree was reversed, and
the cause remanded to the Circuit Court, with the usual directions for further proceedings there. Upon the return of the
cause there, and after the erroneous decree had been set aside,
but before other step was taken, petitioners moved for decree
in their favor, on the ground that this court had treated the
cause as having been submitted below on bill and answer, and
that, this court having held the answer sufficient, it followed
they were entitled to such decree. Respondent could not
adopt that view, since it plainly was not what had occurred.
There was no such submission of the cause below on bill and
answer. Nor, in rendering the decree in favor of complainants, had respondent ' considered' the answer; but had, since
sweeping exceptions had been sustained to it, treated it as out
of the record, for any purpose of the decree -a fact plainly
manifest in the record before this court on appeal. He could
not, therefore, suppose that this court meant, in what is said
upon this point, to hold more, or other, than that the answer
was sufficient, and that he had erred in holding it insufficient.
"Respondent, therefore, having in view the rules of practice
prescribed by this court fot the government of the Circuit
Court, held that since, if he had overruled the exceptions to
the answer, complainants would have been entitled to file
replication, as provided by Rule 66 in Equity, and, if they.
desired it, to have leave to amend their bill, under Rule 45, he
did not, nor does, believe this court, in reversing the decree,
meant to deprive complainants of these rights; but inferred
rather, as the more reasonable and logical deduction, that,
when the Circuit Court had retraced its steps to the point
where the first error occurred, the parties would stand, in respect of the case, and of each other, as if, in the progress of
the cause, it had but then arrived at that juncture. To hold,
instead of this view, that complainants had, by their mistake
in filing exceptions, or by the court's mistake in sustaining
them, or by both things together, forfeited their right to have
the cause proceed, when the errors had been corrected, in the

In re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner..

251

Argument for Petitioner.
orderly manner indicated above, seemed and seems entirely,
illogical, and as, therefore, foreign to the purpose of this court.
Respondent accordingly ruled that, when he retraced the steps
held erroneous by this court, the. cause should progress as if
they had not been taken at all, and as if we were but now
arrived at that point. To that end, he granted, when it was
craved, leave to complainants to amend their bill, and would
have entered the usual order against them to file replication
on or before the next rule'day, had not petitioners thereupon
interposed their motion for stay of proceedings until this application could be heard here."
Judge Woods, in his return, declared himself ready, if his
construction of the opinion and mandate should not accord
with that of this court, to male and enter such order and
decree, under its direction, as would carry out its opinion and
mandate.
3fr. A~pheus H. Snow and -Mr. George A. Knight for
petitioners.
I. If this court, by its opinion, decree, and mandate had
authorized any further proceedings after -reversal except an
entry of a decree by the court below in favor of the defendants on the bill and answer, it must necessarily have held
that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to receive and rule
upon the so-called "exceptions to answer," which, were, in
fact, demurrers to the answer, and that it erred in its ruling
-on the so-called exceptions. The effect-of the opinion, decree,
and mandate had such further proceedings been authorized,
-would have been to put this court in the position of having
conferred jurisdiction upon the Circui.t Courts of the United
States to receive and rule upon .a demurrer to a sworn answer
-in equity, and thus of having indirectly promulgated a new
rule in equity setting aside the settled principle of equity
practice which forbids that the sufficiency of an answer to
constitute a defence to the bill should ever be tested.
This -court, however, carefully guarded against such a result
of its decision in this case by holding in its opinion that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Petitioner.

case had been decided and should be thereafter treated as
if submitted on the bill and answer, and that the Circuit
Court erred in its finding and decree on the facts stated in the
bill and answer; and by issuing a mandate commanding the
court below to proceed in conformity with the opinion and
decree, plainly meaning to command the court below to set
aside its decree in favor of the complainants on the bill and
answer and to .proceed to render a dedree, in favor of the
defendants on the bill and answer.
The writ of mandamus prayed for should issue to effectuate
the plain language and purpose of the opinion, decree, and
mandate.
It is evident that the decree of the court below is explicable
on either one of two grounds, - that the court sustained the
so-called "exceptions to answer" as a demurrer to the answer,
and based its final decree on this interlocutory ruling and the
refusal of defendants to plead farther;.or that it treated the
case as submitted for final decree on the bill and sworn
answer by the election of the defendants to stand on their
sworn answer and the acquiescence of the complainants
therein. The decree is equally applicable to the previous recitals on either hypothesis, but the recital that the court "considered the pleadings" as the basis of its decree seems to point
strongly to the conclusion that the court treated the case as
submitted for final decree on the bill and answer, when it is
remembered that the only "pleadings" which the court could
have "considered" were the bill and answer, and that the
answer was a sworn answer.
But the decree of the court below was not to be explained,
when the cause came to this court on appeal, on the hypothesis
that the court based its decree on an interlocutory ruling
sustaining what was practically a demurrer to the answer,
because this would be to assume that the court below had
permitted an unauthorized pleading to be filed, and made a
ruling upon such unauthorized pleading, and thus had done
an act not merely erroneous, but beyond its jurisdiction.
Neither the general rules of equity practice nor the Rules
in Equity established by this court for the guidance of the

In re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner.

253

Argument for Petitioner.

Circuit Courts of the United States authorize any pleading
whatever for the purpose of testing the sufficiency of an
answer to constitute a defence to the bill. On the contrary,
they describe clearly the proceedings subsequent to the answer
which are authorized, and thus, by necessary implication, prohibit any other proceedings.
This court has held that the Circuit Courts of the. United
States have no authority or jurisdiction to receive on their
files and rule upon a demurrer to an answer in equity, and
that if a demurrer is filed, the case will be treated as if set
down for hearing on bill and answer. Banks v. -Manchester,
128 U. S. 244, 250.
II. Assuming (but by no means admitting) that the
opinion, decree, and mandate of this court are open to a
construction which would authorize the ruling of the respondent, as sole judge of the Circuit Court, counsel for petitioners
cannot believe, as was claimed by counsel for the complainants
in the Circuit Court, that this court intended that such construction should be placed upon them in order to relieve the
complainants from the consequences of their mistake in filing
their so-called "exceptions to answer," and in order to punish
the defendants because they did not point out the mistake by
filing a motion to strike the so-called "exceptions to answer"
from the files. -Had this court intended that any such construction -should be placed upon the opinion, decree, and
mandate, the effect of its decision would have been to hold
that the parties by their agreement or acquiescence may set
aside the settled rules of equity practice and confer jurisdiction
on the Circuit Courts of the United States.
The complainants having had, by the action of the defendants in refusing to plead further, every, benefit that they could
have had, if they had elected to submit the case on bill and
answer, there is no injustice done to them by holding them
to, the facts stated in the bill and answer; and the ruling'of
the respondent, as solejudge of the Circuit Court, opening up
the case for a trial on the facts, is not to be upheld on the
ground that it is necessary to prevent an injustice to complainants. If complainants had filed a general replication,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Petitioner.

they could have had a trial on the facts. They elected not to
do so, and filed an unauthorized pleading. There is no good
reason why they should not take the consequences. It will
not do to say that the defendants ought to have opened their
eyes to tie danger they were in, by filing a motion to strike
out the unauthorized pleading, because such a statement,
when sifted down, merely results in the conclusion, that if the
)arties agree, or do not disagree, that a demurrer may be filed
to an answer in equity, this court will recognize such a pleading
as one authorized by equity practice, and if it is of the opinion
that the Circuit Court ruled erroneously on the demurrer, it
will, by its mandate, direct the Circuit Court to proceed in
the case in the same manner as the state court would proceed
under like circumstances.
III. The rulings of the respondent, as judge, adverse to the
petitioners, are not justified by the words of the mandate
directing that ' such execution and further proceedings be had
in said cause, in conformity with the opinion and decree of
this court as according to right and justice, and the laws of
the United States, ought to be had." These words are not
inconsistent with an entry by the Circuit Court of a final
decree for the appellants. This court has held that a mandate
framed in similar language may necessitate the entry of a
final decree in favor of the appellants.
It was contended by counsel for complainants in the Circuit
Court that the court was not justified in merely rendering a
decree in favor of the defendants because the case was remanded for "further proceedings" in conformity with the
opinion, and "according to right and justice and the laws of
the.United States," and the respondent, as judge, seemed to be
influenced by this suggestion.
Exactly this argument has twice been made in this court,
on a similar state of facts, and this -court has held that the
words of the mandate justified a final judgment. Stewart v.
SalIamon, 94 U. S. 434;' Gaines v. ]?ugg, 148 U. S. 228.
IV. The method adopted by the petitioners to obtain a
construction by this court of its mandate, of making an application for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus,

In re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner.

255

Opinion of the Court.

after notice, and of presenting therewith a verified petition to
be fied, is authorized by the statutes of the United States and
numerous decisibns of this court. Such petition, upon leave
being granted to file it, seems necessarily to be an advanced
cause. If, however, a motion to advance the cafise for hearing
is' necessary, the petitioners have complied with the requirement by incorporating such motion in their application for
leave to file.
That the method of proceeding adopted by the petitioners
to obtain a construction of its mandate is proper, is shown by
the sections of the Statutes of the United States, and the
decisions of this court, cited below: Rev. St. % 688, 716.
Exo parte Dubuque & Paoific Railroad, 1 Wall. 69; In re
Washington & Georgetown Railroad, 140 II. S. 91; Gaines v.
Rugg, 148 U. S, 228; in re fhlies, Petitioner,149-U. S. 192;
In re City Bank, Petitioner,153 U. S. -246.
Mr. C. F. Moeutt and Mr. S. B. Davis opposing.
MR. JusTIoE Gn&Y, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
When a case has been once, decided by this court on appeal,
and remanded to the Circuit Court, whatever was before this
court, and disposed of by its decree, is considered as finally
settled. The Circuit Court is bound by the decree as the law
of the case; and must carry it into execution, according to the
mandate. That court cannot vary it, or examine it- for any
other purpose than execution; or give any oth~r or further
relief.; or review it, even for apparent error, upon aniy matter
decided on appeal; or intermeddle with it, further than to
settle so mach as has been remanded. Si~bald v. United
States, 12 Pet. 488, 492; Texa§ & _Pacifc Railway v. Anderson, 149 U. S. 237. If the Circuit Court mistakes or misconstrues the decree of this court, and does not give full effect to
the mandate, its action may be controlled, either upon a new
appeal (if involving a sufficient amount) or by a writ of man'damus to execute the mandate of this court. -Perkins v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Fouraique, 14 How. 313, 330; In re Washington & Geo'getown Railroad,140 U. S. 91; City Bank v. Runter, 152 U. S.
512; City Bank, petitioner, 153 U. S. 246. But the Circuit
Court may consider and decide any matters left open by the
mandate of this court; and its decision of such matters can
be reviewed by a new appeal only. Hinckley v. _Morton, 103
U. S. 764; Mason v. Pewabie Co., 153 U. S. 361; YSashua &
Zowell Railroad v. Boston & Lowell Railroad, 5 U. S. App.
97. -The opinion delivered by this court, at the time of rendering its decree, may be consulted to ascertain what was
intended by its mandate; and, either upon an application for
a writ of mandamus, or upon a new appeal, it is for this court
to construe its own mandate, and to act accordingly. Sibb&ld
v. United States, 12 Pet. 488, 493 ; West v. Brashear,14 Pet.
51; Supervisors v. -Kennicott,94 U. S. 498; Gdines v. Rugg,
148 U. S. 228, 238, 244.
In the case now before us, it is important, in determining
what was heard and decided by the Circuit Court in the first
instance, and by this court upon the appeal, to bear in mind
the settled practice of courts of chancery, recognized and
regulated by the rules established by this court for the Circuit Courts sitting in equity. Rev. Stat. §§ 916-918.
Upon the coming in of the defendant's answer, several
courses are open to the plaintiff.
First. The plaintiff may, upon motion, without notice to the
defendant, have leave to amend his bill, with or without the payment of costs, as the court may direct. Equity Rules 29, 45.
Second. The plaintiff may file exceptions to the answer for
insufficiency. Equity Rule 61. If the defendant does not
submit to the exceptions, and file an amended answer, the
plaintiff may set down the exceptions for hearing. Equity
Rule 63. If the exceptions are thereupon allowed by the
court, the defendant must put in a full and complete answer;
otherwise the plaintiff may take the bill, so far as the matter
of the exceptions is concerned, as confessed. Equity Rule 64.
Third. If the answer is not excepted to, or if it is adjudged
or deemed sufficient, the plaintiff may file a general replication ; whereupon the cause is to be deemed, to all intents and

In: re SANFORD FORK & TOOL CO., Petitioner.

257

Opinion of the Court.
purposes, at issue, without further pleading on either side.
Equity Rule 66. ,
Fourth. A demurrer to the answer is unknown in equity
practice. But the plaintiff may set down the case for hearing
up6n bill and answer; whereupon all the facts alleged in the
bill and not* denied in the answer, as well as all new facts
alleged in the answer, are deemed admitted, as upon a demurrer to an answer in an action at law. Equity Rule 41, as
amended at December Term, 1871, 13 Wall. xi; Equity Rule
60; Leeds v; .Marie Ins. Co., 2 Wheat. 380; Reynolds v.
CrawfordsvilZe Bank, 112 U. S. 405, 409; Banks v. Man,
chester, 128 U. S. 244, 250, 251."
For the purpose of the hearing upon exceptions to an answer, the facts alleged in the bill and in the answer must
indeed be considered as admitted, and only matter of law is
presented for decision, as in a case set down for hearing upon
bill and answer. But the difference between the two cases is
this: When a case in equity is set down for hearing on bill
and answer, the whole case is presented for final decree in
favor of either .party. But when the matter set down for
hearing is the plaintiff's exceptions to the answer, the case is
not ripe for a final decree; the only question to be decided is
the sufficiency of the answer; and no-final decree can be entered against either party, unless it declines or omits to plead
further.
In the present case, the plaintiffs, upon the coming in of the
answer, neither moved for leave to amend the bill, nor filed a
replication, nor set down the case for hearing upon bill and
answer.
IBut they filed exceptions to the answer; and those exceptions only were set down for hearing, and were heard. and
passed upon by the court. While some of the exceptions
were directed, as is usual, to the want of due .answer to specific
allegations of the bill, others of the exceptions related to the
ufficiency of the whole answer to constitute any defence. Its
sufficiency in the latter respect might properly have been
questioned by setting down the case for hearing upon bill and
answer. But neither for this nor for any other reason, was
voL. C=X-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

any objection made to the exceptions as irregular or improper
ini form.

The Circuit Court, upon sustaining the exceptions, could not
(unless the defendants chose to stand by their answer) enter
a final decree against the defendants; or do anything more
than order them to put in a full and complete answer, on pain
of being held to have confessed the bill. If the Circuit Court,
instead of sustaining the exceptions to the answer, had overruled those exceptions, the plaintiffs would have had the right
to file a replication, and the bill could not be dismissed unless
and until they neglected to file one.
When the decree of the Circuit Court, sustaining the plaintiffs' exceptions to the answer, and (because the defendants
declined to plead further) granting to the plaintiffs the relief
prayed for in the bill, was reversed by this court, the only
matter which was or could be decided by this court, upon the
record before it, was that the answer was sufficient. This
court, in so deciding, could go no further than the Circuit
Court could have done, had it made the like decision. Neither
the Circuit Court, nor this court, upon adjudging that the
answer was sufficient, could, without any consent or neglect
on the part of the plaintiffs, deprive them of their right, under
the general rules in equity, to file a replication.
Nor did this court undertake, either by its opinion or by its
mandate, to preclude the plaintiffs from filing a replication.
On the contrary, at the outset of the opinion, after observing
that, in the manner in which the case was submitted for decision, the facts alleged in the bill and not denied in the
answer, and the new facts alleged in the answer, must be
assumed to be true, the question arising upon those admitted
facts was stated to be "whether the decree in favor of the
plaintiffs can be sustained ;" and, while the opinion declared
that, assuming those facts, the mortgage was valid, yet both
the opinion and the mandate ordered no final judgment for
the defendant, but only ordered the judgment for the plaintiff
to be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of
this court.

