UNITED STATES w. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

53

Syllabus.

of the contracts annulled by it which may not be regarded as
in themselves beyond the power of the contracting parties,
nor inconsistent either with the duties enjoined upon the railway company by the act of 1888 or 'with the rights of the
United States. Bat they are of so little practical importance,
and are so interwoven with, and so difficult t6 be separated
from, the provisions found to be illegal and, to stand in the
way of the due execution of the act of Congress, that the
Circuit Court properly adjudged that the contracts referred
to should be set aside and annulled.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of January 29,
1894, is reversed and set aside, and the decree of the Circuit Court of October 11, 1892, is affirmed.,
It is further adjudged by this court that the Circuit Court
make a supplemental decree, enlarging the period within.
which the defendants may make such arrangements,adjustments, and changes as shall become necessary by reason of
the annulling of the contracts of October 1, 1866, September 1, 1869, December 14, 1871, and July 1, 1881, and to,
carry out the proviions of the final decree of that court.
Reversed.

Mu8. JuSTicE BR EwER took no part in the hearing or decision
of this case on the present appeal.

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY AND UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.19. Argued December 18, 1894. -Decided

November 18,1895.

Although the United States was entitled to retain and apply, as directed by
Congress, all sums due from the Government, on account of the use by
the Telegraph Company, for public business, of the telegraph line con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
structed by the Union Pacific Railway Company, the entire absence of
proof as to the extent to which that line was, in fact, so used, renders It
impossible to ascertain the amount improperly paid to, and without right
retained by, the Telegraph Company, and subsequently divided between
it and the Railroad Company.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Solicitor Gene'al faxwell for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Bush Taggart for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTIOE HiniaLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the United States to recover
from the defendants in error the sum of $12,495.62, which
amount, it is alleged, was paid to the Western Union Telegraph
Company on account of telegraph messages transmitted for
the Government, after July 1, 1881, over telegraph lines operated by that company on and over the route of the Union
Pacific Railway5 and was wrongfully divided between the two
defendants in disregard of the rights of the United States.
The general ground upon which the Government rests this
clAim is that the sums paid by it on account of such messages
were set apart for specific purposes by the acts of Congress
under which the Union Pacific Railroad Company, the predecessor of the 'Union Pacific Railway Company, received the
aid of the United States for the construction and maintenance
of its railroad and telegraph lines.
Pursuant to the direction of the Circuit Court a verdict was
returned for the defendants, and judgment was rendered in
their favor.
The relations between the United States and the defendant
company are fully shown in the opinion just rendered in the
case of the United States v. Union Pacific RaiAway Oompany ,
et al., 160 U. S. 1. In order, however, that the issue in the
present case may be readily understood without frequently
recurring to that opinion, it is necessary to restate some of the
facts disclosed in the former case.
The Union Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated by
the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, passed to aid in the con-

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

55

Opinion of the Court.

struction of a railroad and telegraph line between the Missouri
River and the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government
the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes.
12 Stat. 489, c. 120.
That act granted to the company a right of way through
the public domain for the construction of a railroad and telegraph, and, in aid of such construction granted also every alternate odd-numbered section of public land, not mineral, to the
amount of five alternate sections per mile, within the limits of
ten miles on each side of the road, and which had not been
sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States,
and to which a predmption or homestead claim had not
attached. §5 1, 2, 3, 4.
For the purposes mentioned, the Secretary of the Treasury
was required, upon the written certificate, by commissioners
appointed by the President, of the completion and equipment
of each forty consecutive miles of railroad and telegraph, as
prescribed by the act, to issue to the company bonds of the
United States for a named amount. And to secure the repayment to the United States of any bonds so issued and delivered,
with the interest thereon paid by the United States, such issue
and delivery were declared toconstitute, pso facto, a first
mortgage on the whole line of the railroad and telegraph,
together with the rolling stock, fixtures, and property of every
*kind belonging to the company. § 5.
By the sixth section of that act it was provided that "the
grants aforesaid are made upon condition that said company
shall pay said bonds at maturity, and shall keep said railroad
and telegraph line in repair and use, and' shall at all times
transmit despatches over said telegraph line, and transport
mails, troops, and munitions of war, supplies, and public stores
upon said railroad for the Government, whenever required to do
so by any Department thereof, and that the Government shall
at all times have the preference in the use of the same for all
the purposes aforesaid (at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to exceed the amounts paid by private parties for.
the same kind of service); and all compensation for services
rendered for the Government shall be applied to the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of said bonds and interest until the whole amount is fully paid.
Said company may also pay the United States, wholly or in
part, in the same or other bonds, Treasury notes, or other evidences of debt against the United States, to be allowed at
par; and after said road is completed, until said bonds and
interest are paid, at least five per centum of the net earnings
of said road shall also be annually applied to the payment
thereof."
The nineteenth section was in these words: "The several
railroad companies herein named are authorized to enter into
an arrangement with the Pacific Telegraph Company, the
Overland Telegraph Company, and the Califdrnia State Telegraph Company, so that the present line of telegraph between
the Missouri River and San Francisco may be moved upon or
along the line of said railroad and branches as fast as said
roads and branches are built; and if said arrangement be
entered into, and the transfer of said telegraph line be made
in accordance therewith to the line of said railroad and
branches, such transfer shall, for all purposes of this act, be
held and considered a fulfilment on the part of said railroad
companies of the provisions of this act in regard to the construction of said line of telegraph. And, in case of disagreement, said telegraph companies are authorized to remove their
line of telegraph along and upon the line of railroad herein
contemplated without prejudice to the rights of said railroad
companies named herein."
This act also provided that the better to accomplish its
object, " namely, to promote the public interest and welfare
by the construction of said railroad and telegraph line, and
keeping the same in working order, and to secure to the Government at all times (but particularly in time of war) the use
and benefits of the same for postal, military, and other purposes, Congress may, at any time, having due regard for the
rights of said companies named herein, add to, alter, amend, or
repeal this act." § 18.
This act was amended by an act approved July 2, 1864. 13
Stat. 356, c. 216.
The latter act contained additional grants of lands aid

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

57

Opinion of the Court.

bonds, and by its fifth secticn provided that only "one-half"
of the compensation for services rendered for the Government
by the companies named in the act "shall be required to be
applied to the payment of the bonds issued by the Government
in aid of the construction of said roads." By the fifteenth
section of that act the several companies authorized" to construct the roads named were required "to operate and use said
roads and telegraph for all purposes of communication, travel,
and transportation, so far as the public and the Government
are concerned, as one continuous line; and, in such operation
and use, to afford and secure to each equal advantages and
facilities as to rates, time, and transportation, without any
discrimination of any kind in favor of the road or business of
any or either of said companies, or adverse to the road or busiiless of any or either of the others," etc. 13 Stat. 356, 358, 362.
By an act approved May 7,1878, known as the Thurman
Act, 20 Stat. 56, c. 96, § 2, it was provided that "the whole
amount of compensation which may, from time to time, be
due to said several railroad companies respectively for services
rendered for the Government shall be retained by the United
States, one-half thereof to be presently applied to the liquidation of the interest paid and to be paid by the United States
upon the bonds so issued by it as aforesaid, to each of said
corporations severally, and the other half thereof to be turned
into the sinking fund hereinafter provided, for the uses
therein mentioned." The same act made it the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to enforce, by proper
proceeding, against the said several railroad companies, respectively or jointly, or against either of them, and others,
"all the rights of the United States under this act and under
the acts hereinbefore mentioned, and under any other act of
Congress or right of the United States; and in any suit or
proceeding already commenced, or that may be hereafter
commenced, against any of said companies, either alone or
with other parties, in respect of matters arising under this act,
or under the acts or rights hereinbef6re mentioned or referred
to, it shall be the duty of the court to determifie the very
right of the matter without regard to matters of form,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

joinder of parties, multifariousness, or other matters not
affecting the substantial rights and duties arising out of the
matters and acts hereinbefore stated and referred to." § 10.
In 1865 the Union Pacific Railroad Company began to
construct its road, and, in 1869, completed its main line from
Omaha to Ogden. It also constructed a separate telegraph
line on the north side of its right of way from a point at or
near Omaha to Ogden.
The Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railway Company,
a corporation of Kansas, referred to in the ninth section of the
act of 1862, and in the twelfth section of the act of 1864, c.
216- and which at the date of the latter act was known as
the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, 12
Stat. 493, 13 Stat. 361, began, in 1865, to construct, and, in
1870, completed, a railroad from Kansas City to Denver,
connecting at the latter point under the authority of an act of
Congress, 15 Stat. 324, c. 127, with the Denver Pacific Railroad and Telegraph Company, a corporation of Colorado,
whose road extended from Denver to Cheyenne.
In 1880, these three companies - the Union Pacific Railway
Company, Eastern Division, having previously changed its
name to that of Kansas Pacific Railway Company - consolidated their lines, property, and franchises, and became the
Union Pacific Railway Company, a defendant in this action.
As operated, at the time this action was brought, the Union
Pacific Railway extended from a point at or near Council
Bluffs to Ogden, and from Kansas City, by the way of Denver,
to Cheyenne.
The entire line from a point at or near Omaha to Ogden, and
the line from Kansas City to Boaz, between Kansas City and
Denver, was aided by the United States by grants of lands and
by bonds; the line from Boaz to Denlver, and from Denver to
Cheyenne, by grants of land alone.
The United States has never been reimbursed in full for the
interest paid on these bonds, and if in this action the Government should recover the whole sum claimed by it, a large
deficit would still remain over and above all payments made
or credits given.

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN tJNION TEL. CO.

59

Opinion of the Court.

On the 16th day of June, 1860, Congress passed an act to
"facilitate communication between the Atlafitic and Pacific
States by electric telegraph." 12 Stat. 41, c. 137.
At the date of that act, the Western Union Telegraph Company owned or operated lines extending eastward and southward from St. Joseph to Washington, New Orleans, New York,
and other principal cities of the United States.
Under the act of 1860, the Pacific Telegraph Company and
the California State Telegraph Company began in 1861 to
construct, and prior to 1863 had completed and put in operation, a telegraph line from St. Joseph, Missouri, by way of
Omaha and Salt Lake City, to San Francisco, upon substantially the route afterwards adopted by the Union Pacific Railroad Company for its road between Omaha and Ogden.
Proceeding under the nineteenth section of the act of July
1, 1862, above quoted, the Pacific Telegraph Company and
the California State Telegraph Company transferred their
lines from their prior location and reconstructed them upon
the south side of the right of way of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, as rapidly as the latter constructed its road
between Omaha and Ogden, and those companies or the Western Union Telegraph Company have ever since operated and
maintained those lines. But this transfer was made without
any arrangement with the railroad company, but under that
provision of the act of 1862 declaring that, in case of disagreement, the telegraph companies "are authorized to remove
their line of telegraph along and upon the line" of the railroad, without prejudice to the rights of the railroad companies
named in that act. § 19.
In 1864 the Pacific Telegraph Company- was consolidated
with, and in 1867 the California State Telegraph Company.
was leased to, the Western Union Telegraph Company.
On the 1st day of September, 1869, the Union Pacific Railroad Company leased its line of telegraph to the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Company by an agreement of that date,
which was supplemented by an agreement entered into on the
20th day of December, 1871. Under those agreements, which
were examined in the case of United States v. Union Pacifoe

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway Company et al., just decided, the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Company operated the railroad telegraph
lines until about February 1, 1881, when it was merged into
the Western Union Telegraph Company by consolidation.
Prior to July 2, 1864, the United States Telegraph Company began the construction of a telegraph line from Wyandotte, Kansas, westward, and was constructing it at the time
the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company
began to build its road; and, under the act of July 2, 1864,
known as the Idaho act, entitled "An act for increased facilities for telegraph communication between the Atlantic and
Pacific States and the Territory of Idaho," 13 Stat. 373, c.
220, it removed its constructed line and located the same upon
the right of way of the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western
Railroad Company, and continued to build and operate its
line as the construction of that road progressed.
This Idaho act authorized the several railroad companies
named in the act of July 1, 1862, to enter into arrangements
with the United States Telegraph Company, so that the line
of telegraph between the Missouri River and San Francisco
could be made upon and along the line of said railroad and
branches as fast as that road and branches were built. If
such arrangements were entered into, and the transfer of the
telegraph line was made, in accordance therewith, to the line
of the railroads and branches, such transfer should, for all
purposes of the act referred to, be held and considered a fulfilment on the part of the railroad companies of the provisions of the act in regard to the construction of a telegraph
line; and in case of disagreement the telegraph company was
authorized to remove its line of telegraph along and upon the
line of railroad therein contemplated, without prejudice to the
rights of the railroad companies. § 4..
On the 27th day of February, 1866, the United States Telegraph Company transferred its telegraph lines, and the right
to extend the same, to the Western Union Telegraph Company, and the latter built a telegraph line along the railroad
last named, as fast as that road was constructed, and on October 1) 1866, the latter company, and the railroad company

UNITED STATES

,.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

61

Opinion of the Court.

under the name of the Union Pacific Railway Company,
Eastern Division, entered into an agreement pursuant to
which that telegraph line was completed to Denver.
The Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company
constructed no line of telegraph along its road, but received
the compensation prescribed by the several acts of Congress
for the full performance of the conditions of those acts,
namely, land and bonds for the road from Kansas City to
Boaz, and lands for the road from Boaz to Denver.
In Title LXV of the Revised Statutes will be found, substantially, all the provisions of the act of July 24, 1866, entitled "An act to aid in the construction of telegraph lines,
and to secure to the Government the use of the same for
postal, military, and other purposes," 14 Stat. 221, c. 230, as
well as some of the, provisions of other acts relating to the
same general subject. Those provisions are as follows:
"1§5263. Any telegraph company now organized, or which
may hereafter be organized, utider the laws of any State,
shall have the right to construct, maintain, and operate lines of
telegraph through- and over any portion of the public domain
of the United States, over and along any of the military or post
roads of the United States, which have been or may hereafter
be declared such by law, and over, tnder, or across the navigable streams or waters of the United States; but such lines of
telegraph shall be so constructed and maintained as not to
obstruct the navigation of such streams and waters, or interfere with the ordinary travel on such military or jiost roads.
"§ 5264. Any telegraph company organized under the laws
of any State shall have the right to take and use from
the public lands through which its lines of. telegraph may
pass, the necessary stone, timber, and. other materials for its
posts, piers, stations, and other needful uses in the construction, maintenance, and operation of its lines of telegraph,
and may preempt and use such portion of the unoccupied
public lands subject to preemption through which their lines
of telegraph may be located as may be necessary for their
stations, not exceeding forty acres for each station; but such
stations shall not be within fifteen miles of each other."

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 5265 forbids the transfer by any company to any
other corporation, association, or person of the rights granted
by the act of July 24, 1866, or by the above title.
"§ 5266. Telegrams between the several Departments of
tho Government and their officers and agents, in their transmission over the lines of any telegraph company to which has
been given the right of way, timber, or station lands from the
public domain shall have priority over all other business, at
such rates as the Postmaster General shall annually fix. And
no part of any appropriation for the several Departments of
the Government shall be paid to any company which neglects
or refuses to transmit such telegrams in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
"§ 5267. The United States may, for postal, military, or
other purposes, purchase all the telegraph lines, property, and
effects of any or all companies acting under the provisions of
the, act of July 24, 1866, or under this title, at an appraised
value, to be ascertained by five competent, disinterested persons, two of whom shall be selected by the Postmaster General
of the United States, two by the company interested, and one
by the four so previously selected."
Section 5268 provides that "before any telegraph company
shall exercise any of the powers or privileges conferred by
law such company shall file their written acceptance with the
Postmaster General of the restrictions and obligations required
by law."
On the 7th of June, 1867, the Western Union Telegraph
Company formally accepted the provisions of the act of July
24, 1866, and since about January 1, 1873, the compensation
it was entitled to receive for sending messages for the Government has been fixed by the Postmaster General.
The Union Pacific Railway Company never accepted the
provisions of the act of July 24:, 1866, as to its telegraph line.
On the 1st day of July, 1881, the Western Union Telegraph
Company and the Union Pacific Railway Company entered
into an agreement, under which the former operated all the
telegraph lines named in it, and the provisions of which have
been, and at the date this action was brought were being,
carried out by both parties.

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

63

Opinion of the Court.

The preamble of that agreement recites that it was made
"for the purpose of providing telegraphic facilities for the
parties hereto, and of maintaining and operating the lines of
telegraph along the railway company's railroads in the most
economical manner in the interest of both parties and for. the
purpose of fulfilling the obligations of the railway company to
the .Government of the United States and the public in respect
to the telegraphic service required by the act of Congress of
July 1, 1862, and the amendments thereto."
All the telegraph lines and wires covered by the agreement,
belonging to or used by either party, weie, for the purposes of
the contract, to "fo'm part of the general system of the telegraph company ;" and the railway company was to be protected by the telegraph company from the payment of all
taxes levied and assessed upon the telegraph property belonging to either party.
This agreement, by its terms, extended to all railroads and
branches or extensions, then or thereafter owned or controlled
by the railroad company, except railroads that might be subsequently acquired, on which the telegraph company already had
a line in operation; and to such roads the agreement was not
to apply, except by mutual consent of the parties.
The third paragraph of this agreement provided that " the
railway company, so far as it legally may, hereby grants and
agrees to assure to the telegraph company. the exclusive right
of way on, along, upon and under the line, lands and bridges
of the railway company and any extensions and branches
thereof, for the construction, maintenance, -operation, and use
of lines of poles and wires, or either of them, or underground
or other system of communication for commercial or public
uses or business, with the right to put up from time to time
or cause to be -put up or constructed, under the provisions of
this agreemefit, such additional wires on its own or the railway company's poles or such additional lines of poles and
wires, or either, as well on its bridges as on its right of way,
or to construct such underground lines as the telegraph
company may deem expedient, doing as little damage and
causing as little inconvenience to the railway company as is

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

practicable, and the railway company will not transport men
or material for the construction or operation of a line of poles
and wire or wires or underground or other system of communication in competition with the lines of the telegraph company,
party hereto, except at and for the railway company's regular
localrates, nor will it furnish for any competing line any facilities
or assistance that it may lawfully withhold, nor stop its trains,
nor distribute material therefor at any other than regular
stations."
By article four of the agreement it was provided that the
employ~s of the railway company "shall transmit over the
lines owned, controlled, or operated by the parties hereto, all
commercial telegraph business offered at the railway company's offices, and shall account to the telegraph company
exclusively for all of such business and the receipts thereon,
as provided herein;" that "the telegraph company shall have
the exclusive right to the occupancy of the railway company's
depots or station-houses for commercial or public telegraph
purposes as against any other telegraph company;" and "that
if any person or party, or any officer of the Government, tender a message for transmission over the railway telegraph
lines between Council Bluffs and Ogden at any railway telegraph station between those points and require that the service be rendered by the railway company, the operator to
whom the same is tendered shall receive and forward the same
accordingly, at rates to be fixed by the railway company, to
the point of destination if not beyond its own lines.
Provided,however, That the local receipts of the railway company on such message shall be divided between the parties
hereto in the same manner and subject to the same conditions
as provided in the tenth clause of this agreement." The tenth
clause provided that "at all telegraph stations of the railway
company its employ~s shall receive, transmit, and deliver such
commercial or public messages as may be offered, and shall
render to the telegraph company monthly statements of such
business, and full accounts of all receipts therefrom, and the
railway company shall cause all of such receipts to be paid
over to the telegraph company monthly;" and the telegraph

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

65

Opinion of the Court.

*company agreed CCto return to the railway company monthly
one-half of the cash receipts at telegraph stations maintained
and operated by and at the expense of the railway company."
The telegraph company agreed to furnish at its &wn expense
all blanks and stationery for commercial or public telegraph
business, aid all instruments, main and local batteries and battery material for the operation of its' own and the railway
company's wires -and offices. It is also covenanted to save
"the railway company harmless and indemnify it against
loss or damage from neglect or failure in the transmission or
delivery of messages "1for any person doing business with said
telegraph company, or on account of any other public or commercial telegraph business" for which the railway company
was to account.
No record was kept of business done under this agreement of 1881, and the parties have stipulated, that "it is now
impossible to prove over what particular wire or wires the
messages set out in the plaintiff's bill of particulars were actually transmitted, but a part were sent over what, prior to 1881,
were the wires of the railroad company, and the balance over
the wires owned by the telegraph company."
Since the contract of 1881, the telegraph company and
the railway company have not maintained distinct offices or
employed different sets of telegraph operators except at some
of the larger towns and cities, where the Western Union Telegraph Company has, in addition, established separate offices
for the transaction of commercial business away from the line
of the railway, but the offices have been in common and the
same set of operators have done the -work required by both
the telegraph company and the railway company.
In the agreed statement of facts. it appears that "the
amount of messages set out in the plaintiff's bill of particulars
correctly states the date of each message therein set forth;
the sender of the same, and from what point to what point
the same was transmitted by the Western Union Telegraph
Company; the amount collected by the Western Union Telegraph Company for the transmission of the same; the proportionate amount of the whole sum thus paid to the Western Union
VOL. CLX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Telegraph Company which was for the bonded portion of the
telegraph lines along the railways of the Union Pacific Railway
Company, such sum being such proportionate amount of the
whole amount paid as the distance along the bonded portion of
the telegraph along said line or lines of railway bears to the
whole distance the message was transmitted from the point of
origin to the point of destination; that the compensation for
each of the messages was computed and paid for as one entire
service and at the then ruling rate for such entire distance fixed
by the Postmaster General of the United States, in accordance
with section 5266 of the Revised Statutes of the United States;
all of said messages were. delivered to the Western Union Telegraph Company by the agent or officer of the Government
sending the same, written upon the Western Union Telegraph
Company's blanks, and directed to the receiver of such message at the point of destination and without any direction to
transmit the same over the bonded portion of the line of telegraph of the Union Pacific Railway Company for the whole or
afiy part of the distancebut it was known to the Western Union
Telegraph Company, from the character of the said messages,
that they were from one officer or agent of the Government
to another. That at all the times the said messages were thus
transmitted by the Western Union Telegraph Company at the
rates annually fixed by the Postmaster General of the United
States, the ordinary rates, known as commercial rates, charged
to other persons for transmitting like messages for the same
distances were very much in excess of the rates fixed by the
Postmaster General; that the ordinary or commercial rate
upon the bonded portions of the lines of telegraph situated
along the lines of railway of the Union Pacific Railway Company was likewise very much in excess of the rates fixed by
the Postmaster General of the United States during the period
covered by the account in this action. That as to a large
number of messages included in said bill of particulars and
known as Signal Service reports, the same were transmitted
under special arrangement 'and differently'from other classes
of messages, upon what were known as ' circuits,' with ' drops'
at all places receiving the said Signal Service reports. The

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

67

Opinion of the Court.

method of doing said business was as follows: As many
places as the Chief Signal Service Officer' desired should
receive the said Signal Service report were connected upon
one continuous line of telegraph called a 'circuit,' and the
said reports were then sent over this wire, and at each point
where said reports were received an operator took the said
reports; each of said points thus receiving the report being
called a ' drop,' and all of said points receiving the-said reports.
at the same time; that by reason of this method of sending
reports, a specially low rate was made therefor, the said rate
bein fixed by the Postmaster General in the circulars issued
annually, and upon the basis of amount of matter and number
of drops, and extent of circuits. That the circuits for the
transmission of said Signal Service reports were made up
between the points named in the account in this action, and
included intermediate points or drops in each case;t that
the amount sought to be recovered in this action is. such proportionate amount of the whole ainount paid as the distance
along the bonded portion of the telegraph lines upon the said
line or lines of railway bears to the whole distance over which
such messages or reports were sent."
Such is the case made by the record now before the court.
It is clear, under the acts of 1862, 1861, and 1878, that the
Government was entitled to retain, and to apply as directed
by Congress, all sums due on account of services rendered in
its behalf, by any railroad company named in those acts, that
had received the aid of the United States in the construction
of its railroad and telegraph lines. All such sums were set
apart by Congress for the payment of the principal and interest of any bonds delivered by the United States to such company. The Government could, therefore, have retained and
applied, as in the acts of Congress required, all sums due from
it on account of messages sent or received by, it over the telegraph line constructed by the Union Paciic Rairoad,,Corpany.. Sinking Fund case, 99 U. S. 700.'. INo agreement
between that company and the Western, Union Telegraph
Company, transferring to the latter the control of the tele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

graph line constructed by the railroad company, could affect
the rights of the United States.
If it distinctly appeared that the amount sued for was only
the aggregate of sums originally due from the United States,
on account of public messages passing over the telegraph lines
constructed by the Union Pacific Railroad Company, we
should have no difficulty in sustaining the present claim of
the Government. But no such state of case is presented by
the record. It does not even appear that the Government,
prior to the period covering the account in suit, requested the
telegraph company to so keep its books as to show what messages sent or received on public business were transmitted
over the telegraph line constructed by the railroad company
on its route. Nor does it appear that any such account was
kept by the Government.
It is agreed to be now impossible to show over what particular wire or wires- whether those belonging to the Western
Union Telegraph Company or those belonging to the Union
Pacific Railway Company -the messages set out in the Government's bill of particulars were, in fact, transmitted. Nothing more definite appears than that "a part" -how much
cannot be now known -were sent over the wires originally
established by the railroad company, and "the balance" how much cannot be shown - over the wires owned by the
telegraph company.
It is because of the impossibility of now distinguishing between these two classes of messages, that this action proceeds,
and can only proceed, upon the theory that the length which
the telegraph line, constructed by the rcilroad company, bears
to the entire distance, in whatever part of the United States,
from the point of origin of a telegraph message to the point
of its destination, measures the proportion which might have
been rightfully retained by the Government of the entire sum
earned by the telegraph company for transmitting and delivering such messages.
According to this theory, the presumption must be indulged
that every message delivered to the telegraph company for
transmission, and which passed over the whole or some part

UNITED STATES v. WESTERN UNION TEL. CO.

69

Opinion of the Court.

of the general route of the Union Pacific Railway, passed
over the telegraph line constructed on'the north side of that
route by the railroad company, but operated by the telegraph
company, rather than over the line, on the south side of that
route, owned by the telegraph company. No such presumption can be justified upon any principle of right or justice.
The telegraph company had a line of its own on the right
of way of the railway company, with the consent of the
United States. It accepted the provisions of the act of Congress giving the Postmaster General authority to fix the rates
to be charged for any business transacted for the Government.
But it neither expressly nor impliedly agreed that, when no
directions in the matter were given by the representative of
the Government, it would transmit all messages, on behalf of
the Government, from or to points on either side of the route
of the Union Pacific Railway, over the telegraph line constructed by the railroad company, rather than over the line
owned by itself. In the absence of such directions, the telegraph company was at liberty to send such messages over its
own line at the rates established by the Postmaster General.
If it did so, the Government was probably benefited rather
than injured; for the rates fixed by the Postmaster General
were less than the ordinary rates, known as commercial rates,
charged against private persons, and which the railway company, by its charter, was entitled to charge for public messages sent over its telegraph line. If, in the absence of any
direction not to do so, the telegraph company actually used,
for the purpose of transmitting a public message, the line
constructed by the railroad company, there can be no doubt
that the sum due therefor could be retained by the United
States and applied as indicated in the act of 1878; for the
telegraph company, notwithstanding the agreement of July
1, 1881, would be bound to take notice of the fact that that
telegraph line was constructed with the aid of the Government, and that its earnings on account of public business were
dedicated by Congress to specific purposes.
It results that, although the United States was entitled to
retain and apply, as directed by Congress, all sums due from

