OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

ment sufficient, notwithstanding the general description of the
property embezzled as consisting of so many dollars and cents.
But, if the words charging him with being in the employ of
the government be stricken out, then there would be nothing
left to show why the property embezzled could not be identified with particularity, and the general rule above cited would
apply. The indictment would then reduce itself to a simple
allegation that the said George S. Moore, at a certain time
and place, did embezzle the sum of $1652.59, money of the
United States, of the value, etc., said money being the personal property of the United States, which generality of description would be clearly bad. As there was a demurrer to
this count, which was overruled, we do not think the objection is covered by Rev. Stat. ยง 1025, or cured by the verdict.
As we hold the indictment in this case to be bad, we find it
unnecessary to consider the other errors assigned.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case remandedwith, directions to quash the
indictment.

KEANE v. BRYGGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPER

COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.

No. 94. Argued December 4, 5,1895. -Decided

December 23, 1895.

A voluntary relinquishment of his entry by a homestead entryman made in
1864 was a relinquishment of his claim to the United States,-and operated
to restore the land to the public domain.
Prior to 1864 H. made a homestead entry of the land in controversy in this
action. In February, 1864, he relinquished his right, title,-and interest in
the same. In March, 1864, the University Commissioners of Washington
Territory, under the act of July 17, 1854, c. 84, selected this as part of the
Territory's lands for university purposes, and on the 10th day of that
month conveyed the tract to R., who, on the.4th of April, 1876, conveyed
it to B.
.Held,that the title so acquired should prevail over a title
acquired by homestead entry in October, 1888.

KEA._E .v. BRYGGER.
Statement of the Case.

.Tms was an action for the possession of certain parcels of
land. in Washington Territory, brought in its third judicial
district. The land constituted the southwest, quarter of the
northwest quarter of section eleven in township 25 north, of
range 3 east, in King County, in that Territory.
The complaint alleged that one Johan Brygger was, in his
lifetime, the owner in fee and entitled to the possession of the
land described; that he died in that county and Territory onthe 20th of :November, 1888, the owner in fee and entitled to
the possession of the pre iises; that he left a last will and
testament, which was admitted to probate in the probate court
of King Coiinty, in that Territory, on the 20th of December,
1888; that the plaintiff, Anna Sophia Brygger, was appointed
executrix, and the plaintiff, Ole Schillestead, was appointed
executor of the estate of decedent on the 20th day of December, 1888, and that both qualified and entered upon the discharge of their duties.. The plaintiffs also alleged that the
real property described was assets in their hands for the payment of debts and legacies and expenses-of administration, and
that they had .been in possession of the same since their appointment, and that the;decedent, at the time of his death,
was in its possession, and had been in actual possession thereof
for over ten years before his death; that a part of the dwelling-house of the decedent, in which his family resided, was on
the property, and that there were on the land a large and costly
barn and outhouses, and orchard and garden, and the same
was surrounded with a fence, and was mostly improved. And
the plaintiffs alleged that the defendant, on the 12th of February, A.D. .1889, opened the fences surrounding the land,
and. with servants, and teams. and lumber entered upon the
same with the declared intention of building a house thereon
and to claim the same, and announced his intention to
hold the possession of allthe described lan.ds., They also
alleged that Anna Sophia Brygger was not .only executrix of the estate of said Johan Brygger,. deceased, but the
residuary devisee of all of his estate remaining after the
,payment of the legacies and bequests mentipned in the will of
the, decedent' that the. plaintiffs' title to the' land and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

claim to the possession thereof was as executors of the estate
of Johan Brygger, deceased, and that the estate was unsettled,
and that legacies, bequests, and expenses of administration
were to be paid. That the defendant had threatened to continue the opening and breaking of the fences on the land, and
to continue the hauling of lumber and other materials thereon,
and to continue to enter the same by himself and servants,
and to erect a house and other buildings thereon.
And the plaintiffs also averred that the orchard and garden
and dwelling-house, outhouses, and barn were all thereby
exposed to destruction or great damage by stock and the
estate of Johan Brygger, deceased, to be greatly impaired;
that the defendant was unable to answer in damages for the
injury already done and that which was threatened by him,
and that there was great danger that he would put the same
into execution; and they asked for judgment for the recovery
of the land and for an order restraining the defendant, his
servants or agents, from interfering with their possession of the
land or the improvements thereon, and restraining him or his
servants from opening or breaking the fences or doing other
damage thereto during the pendency of this ltigation, and
for their costs and disbursements to be taxed.
The complaint was filed on the 15th of February, 1889, and
on the same day an order was issued by the court directing
the defendant to show cause on a day named why a temporary
restraining order should not be granted, and in the meantime
enjoining him from opening or breaking down the fences
enclosing the land, and from entering upon the same with
wagons, teams, or otherwise, and from erecting a house or other
structure thereon, and from interfering with the buildings or
any of them upon the same.
On the 21st of February, 1889, the defendant filed an
answer and counterclaim, protesting that the court had not
jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the action, and, saving
all his rights by reason of the want of such jurisdiction, yet
for answer and defence, denied, each and every allegation of
the first and second paragraphs .of the -complaint, except the
allegation as to the- place and date of the death of Johan

KEANE v. BRYGGER.

279,

Statement of the Case.

Brygger; -alleging that, as to the third paragraph, he had not
sufficient knowledge or information upon which to form a
belief respecting the allegations therein, and therefore denied
each of them; and, answering the fourth paragraph, he denied
that the real property therein referred to was assets in -the
hands of the plaintiffs or any of them for ,the payment of debts,
legacies, and expenses of administration, or of any or either
of said matters, or for any purpose whatever, or in any respect
or manner whatever. He further denied that the plaintiffs
had or that any or either of them had been in the possession
of the real property since their or either of their appointment
as executrix and executor respectively, as in the complaint set
forth, if such appointment had been made, or at any time or
at all, and alleged that if they had or any or either of them
had been in such possession the same was at all times wrongful and unlawful and without any color of right. He further
denied that Johan Brygger at the time of his death, q. at any
time or at all, was in possession 6f said real property, and
alleged that if said Brygger ever was in such possession -the
same was at all times wrongful and unlawful and without ahy
color of right. And also denied that Johan Brygger was in
possession of said real pr.operty for over ten years before his
death, or for ten years, or for any time, or at all, and alleged
that if he ever was in such possession the same was wrongful
and unlawful and without any color of right.
The defendant, further answering, alleged that if a,,part o'f
the dwelling-house of Johan Brygger was on the said property
the same was wrongfully and unlawfully placed there, and
that if the barn, outhouses, orchard, and garden mentioned
were upon the property, the same were and each of them was
put there wrongfully and unlawfully, and without aily color of
right. And he denied that there was any fence surrounding
the land, or that he opened fences surrounding the same, and
alleged that the rails temporarily removed by him for the purpose of reaching the land had been wrongfully and unlawfully
placed where they were, notwithstanding which he had restored the same to the position -inwhich he had first-found them.
And the defendant, answering the fifth paragraph, alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

that he had not had sufficient knowledge or information upon
which to form a belief respecting the allegations or any of
them therein contained; wherefore he denied the same. And
also denied that Johan Brygger ever had any title, legal, equitable, or otherwise, to the land or any part thereof, and denied
that the estate of Johan Brygger had, or ever bad, any right,
title, interest, or claim in or to the land or any part thereof.
Answering the seventh paragraph of the complaint, the
defendant denied that the orchard and garden and dwellinghouse, outhouses, and barn therein mentioned were, or that
any or either of them was, in the least exposed to destruction
or damage by stock or otherwise, or to any injury or loss
whatsoever by reason of anything done or intended or attempted by the defendant, and denied that the estate of
Johan Brygger was thereby exposed in any manner to the
least impairment or damage. And he further alleged that he
had done and intended to do no damage whatsoever to any
fence or fences on the land, if any there were, notwithstanding that the same, if any, had been wrongfully and unlawfully placed thereon without color of right.
Answering the eighth paragraph of the complaint, the defendant denied each and every allegation therein contained,
and in -particular that any injury had been done or threatened by him to any interest, property, or claim of the plaintiff, and denied that he had any intention to do such injury,
and alleged that he was fully able to answer in damages
for any injury which could or might arise from his occupation
of the land.
And further answering the complaint, and as and for new
matter constituting a first and separate defence thereto, the
defendant alleged that on and before the ,20th day of October, 1888, the land described in the complaint, and forty
acres, according to the United States survey, was unappropriated public land of the United States; that on the date
mentioned the defendant was the head of a family, over the
age of twenty-one years, and was a citizen of the United
States, and had never theretofore taken up or entered any
public land of the United States under the homestead laws;

KEAyE v. BRYGGER.
Statement of the Case.

that on the date mentioned, being duly qualified, he tendered
at the United States land office in Seattle his application to
enter and appropriate the land described under the provisions
of the homestead laws; that he made application for his
exclusive use and benefit, and for the purpose' of actual settlement and cultivation, and not either directly or indirectly
for the use or benefit of any other person, ahd paid to the
United States the legal fees in such cases prescribed, and was
thereupon duly permitted to enter the land, and did on the
day mentioned enter the same; that his entry of the land
was thereupon duly made of record, and has ever since continued to be and now is a valid'subsisting entry, and that six
months have not elapsed since the appropriation of, the land
by him; and that neither Johan Brygger nor the plaintiffs,
nor either of them, ever had or now have any right, title, or
interest in the laud or any part thereof,
To the fourth paragraph 'of the defendant's answer, the
plaintiffs replied and .denied that the possession of Johan
Brygger, their testator, or their possession after his death,
was wrongful or unlawful, or without color of right, and
denied. that the dwelling-house on the property, described was
wrongfully and unlawfully placed 'there, or that the barn,
outhouses, orchard, and garden on the land were wrongfully
or unlawfully placed there; also denied that the rails removed
by the defendant had been wrongfully or unlawfully placed
where they were; denied also that the defendant was , not
doing damage, and denied that he did not intend to do any
damage to the fence or fences on the land.
In reply to the second defence and counterclaim, they
denied that the land described in the first paragraph of the
defence or counterclaim, being the same as that described in
the complaint, was, on and before the 20th day of October,
1888, 'unappropriated and public land of the United States,
and denied that the same had been unappropriated and public
land since the 10th day of March, A.D. 1864.
In reply to the third paragraph of the defence, the plaintiffs
denied that the defendant, on the 20th-day of October, A.D.
1888, or at any other time, duly tendered to the United States

OCTOBER TERM," 1895.
Statement of the Case.

land office in Seattle or elsewhere his application to enter or
take up or appropriate the land under the provisions of the
homestead law.
In reply to paragraph four they denied that the defendant
was duly permitted to enter the land under the provisions of
the homestead law; and denied that his application or entry
was duly made of record in the land office mentioned; and
that the same had been since or continued to be and then was a
valid or subsisting entry and appropriation of the land. And
in reply to the seventh paragraph of the defence, they denied
each and every allegation of the same.
On the 9th of August, 1890, the defendant requested the
court to find the following facts:
1st. That on the 14th day of February, 1864, and on the 10th
day of March, 1864, and at all times in February and March,
.1864, the land in controversy was included in homestead
entry No. 204, of Lemuel J. Holgate, and was included in and
covered by his homestead entry until the 20th day of December, 1871. 2d. That on the 14th day of February, 1864, an4
on the 10th day of March, 1864, and on the 14th day of
March, 1864, and at all times in February and March, 1864,
Holgate was living upon the land as a homestead settler and
entryman, and improving the same for the purpose of making
it his permanent home, and did not leave the same until about
December, 1864. 3d. That on .the 4th day of April, 1889,
the receiver of the United States land office at Seattle, Washington, transmitted to the defendant by unregistered mail, in
care of his attorney, a letter to the effect that the Commissioner of the General Land Office held defendant's entry for
cancellation, which letter was the first and only notice of the
holding or decision given to defendant. 4th. That by No. 77
of the rules of practice in cases before the district land offices,
the General Land Office, and the Department of the Interior
in force at the time, the defendant had thirty (30) days, together with ten (10) days for transmission through the mail
to him and from him, from the 4th day of April, 1889, for
filing, either in the Seattle land officeor in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, a motion for re-

KEAXE v. BRYGGER.
Statement of the Case.

hearing or review of the holding or decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; that within the period so
allowed by that rule the defendant did file both in the Seattle
land office and in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office a motion for rehearing and review of the
holding and decision. 5th. That before the period had elapsed
and on the 22d day of April, 1889, the Secretary of the
Interior certified the land to the University of the Territory
of Washington, which certification was subsequently entered
of record under the seal of the Commissioner of. the General
Land Office on the 9th .day of May, 1889, and before the
period h.d elapsed within which defendant could legally file
his motion for rehearing and review. - 6th. That by reason of
the certification of the land department. the United States lost
jurisdiction over the land. 7th. That by the loss of jurisdiction the defendant had no further remedy in thejland departmenf. 8th . That the complaint in this action was filed in
this court on the 15th day of February, 1889, prior to the
time of the certification and before the time had elapsed for
the, defendant to move for such rehearing and review, and
before the land department had lost jurisdiction over the land,
and while the title to the land was still in the United States.
9th. That -on the 11th day of January, 1861, the legislative
assembly of the Territory of Washington passed an act
appointing Daniel Bagley, John Webster, and Edmund Carr
a board of commissioners to select, locate, and dispose of lands,
reserved for university purposes in the Territory of Washington by the act of Congress of July .17, 1854.
And the defendant requested.the court to find thefollowing
conclusions ,of law: 1st. That by reason of the. h~omestead
entry No. 204 of Lemuel J. Holgate remaining uncancelled on
the records of the land department until December 20, 1871,
the land did not become vacant public land. of the United
States and subject to selection for the University of the Territory of Washington until the last-named date. 2d. That
upon. that date it became vacant public land of the United
States,, and open to predmptionor homestead settlement, and
was so vacant when the defendant filed his homestead entry

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

thereon. 3d. That by defendant's homestead entry the land
was appropriated to him. 4th. That defendant's homestead
entry was unlawfully cancelled. 5th. That the land was unlawfully certified by the land department to the Territory of
Washington, and no right passed to the plaintiffs or to their
testator, his grantors, by such certification. 6th. That the legal title to the land conveyed by that certification inures to the
benefit of the defendant, and the plaintiffs hold the same in
trust for him. 7th. That the defendant is entitled to a decree
for the conveyance of the legal title to him, and for the dismissal of this action, and for the dissolution of the temporary
restraining order heretofore issued in this cause.
The issues involved in this cause came on to a hearing on
the 18th and 19th days of June, 1890, in the Superior Court
of King County, State of Washington, upon the pleadings and
evidence taken, and the court found that said tract of land
was selected by the Territory of Washington, through its
university commissioners, on the 10th day of March, 1864, as
university lands, and that the university commissioners did,
upon that date, execute and deliver to one John Ross a deed
to the land in controversy for the consideration of two hundred and forty dollars, paid by him to them; that on the 4th
day of April, A.D. 1876, Ross sold and conveyed the lands
by deed to Johan Brygger, the testator herein, and that both
of the deeds were duly recorded; that prior to the year'1864
one Lemuel ilolgate had made a homestead filing on the land
in controversy, but that he had relinquished his right, title,
and interest in and to the same in the month of February,
1864; that the university commissioners filed a list of such
selections in the local land office in the Territory, which list
was known and recognized in the land department of the government as list number two, and that the same was filed in
the proper local land office in March, 1867, and that in that
list the land was located and selected for university purposes;
that on the 22d day of April, A.D. 1889, the Secretary of the
Interior issued his certificate under the act of Congress approved March 14, 1864, after due proof, including the land in
controversy, and approving the same as a grant in fee simple

KEANE v. BR-YGGER.
Opinion of the Court.

to th6 Territodry, and to its vendees, under and by virtue of
said act; that on or about October 20,

A.D.

1888, the plaintiff

in error entered his homestead filing in the land office at
Seattle, on the land in controversy, and that in February,
1889, he took up his residence on a portion of the land and
erected a; building on the same; that prior to the erection of
that building defendants in error notified him of their rights,
claims, and titles to the land.
Mr. James . 1?edington and Mr'. Sami el Field Phillips
for plaintiff iq error. 36r. -FredericD. 1cKen ney was on the
brief.
-M'. CAarles K. Jerner"for defendant in error.
Heiy Legg was oti the brief.

Mr'. Louis

M&R. JusTIcE FIELD, after stating the facts as above and
referring to the act of Congress mentioned, reserving to the
States, respectively, certain, lands for university purposes and
authorizing each of the States named to appoint commissioners for the selection and location of such lands, delivered
the opinion of the court, as follows:

The contest between the parties to the premises in controversy arises from a claim made by each of them to a segregation of a portion of such lands for a homestead under the act
of Congress of July 17, 1854, c. 84, 10 Stat. 305.
By the fourth section of that act it is provided: "That, in
lieu, of the two townships of land granted to the Territory of
Oregon by the tenth section of the act of eighteen hundred
and fifty, for universities, there shall .be reserved to each of
the Territories of Washington and Oregon two townships of
land of thirty-six sections each, to be, selected in legal subdivisions, for university .purposes, under direction of the legislatures of said Territories, respectively."
On the 11th day of January, 1861, the legislative assembly
of the Territory of Washington passed an act appointing a
board of commissioners to select, locate, and dispose of lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

reserved for university purposes in the Territory of Washington by the act of Congress quoted.
It appears, from an examination of the proceedings, read in
connection with the legislation of Congress and the action of
the commissioners of the State, that a doubt was created as to
the legality of the conveyance by the commissioners of the
land in controversy, to John Ross, from the fact that previous
to that conveyance one Lemuel J. Holgate had filed upon and
entered, as a homestead, the land described, which was not
cancelled until December 20, 1871. It appears that Holgate
executed a relinquishment of his homestead entry upon the
land previous to the execution by the commissioners of their
conveyance of the same to John Ross. That relinquishment
was executed and delivered in February, 1864, and the selection of lands by the university commissioners was on the 10th
day of March, 1864. But it is contended by the plaintiff that
the relinquishment was in effect a quitclaim from folgate to
Ross, as there was no provision for a'voluntary relinquishment prior to May 14, 1880, and that the only way by which
lands once filed on under the homestead acts could be restored to the public domain was either by lapse of time or by
contest.
But this position is not sustained by the judgment of the
Secretary of the Interior, nor was it in harmony with the
rulings of the land department. In its legal effect the relinquishment by Holgate was to the United States.
Section 1 of thQ act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140,
provides "'that when a preemption, homestead, or timber
culture claimant shall file a written relinquishment of his
claim in the local land office, the land covered by such claim
sha:ll be'held as open to settlement and entry without further
action on the part of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office;" and, as held by the Commissioner, the effect of the
law was to give authority to local land officers to cancel the
entry at once without awaiting the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office as had been preceding that
time its custom.
As stated by the Commissioner, it had previously been the

KEANE v. BRYGGER.
Opinion of the Court.

uniform practice of the land department to cancel entries on
the voluntary relinquishment of the entryman, and it would
be a strange -doctrine to announce that a party did not have
the right to relinquish any right that he had to or in any
property, and that it was the intention of the government to
compel its citizens to go to the expense and delay of a contest
to extinguish an interest of another citizen who was willing to
make a disclaimer of that interest.
He very justly remarks that the object of the homestead
law was to furnish homes to the citizens "of the government
and to encourage the settlement of its public domain, and to
make the accession of these homes as easy and cheap as possible, and not to wantonly and senselessly place obstructions in
the way of such acquisition.. He observed that it is the policy
of the government to protect the rights of the homestead
claimant while he is endeavoring to comply with the requirements of the law; but when the government becomes satisfied
that th~ere has been an abandonment of such right by the applicant, the entry will be cancelled, and the land will be subject to the redntry of some one who will comply with the
law, and that the question whether or not there has been an
abandonment must be determined, like every other question of
the kind, by evidence, and there certainly could be no higher
or more convincing testimony than the testimony of the applicant himself, by a formal relinquishment of his rights to the
land endorsed on his original receipt and filed in the land
office. Secretary Teller well said that the fact that Holgate's
relinquishment was not returned to and noted on the records
of the land office until 1871 showed irregularity on the part
of the local officers but could not affect the rights of the
university.
It appearing, therefore, that the action of the board of university commissioners, in conveying to John Ross the land
involved in this case, who subsequently conveyed it to Johan
Brygger, under whose will the appellees claim title to the
same, was in conformity with the act of Congress of July 17,
1854, 10 Stat. 305, ยง 4, and the amendatory act -of March 14,
1861, c. 31, 13 Stat. 28, this court finds no error in the decision

