OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

not have been made, such condemnation may be made in
accordance with section three of the act entitled 'An act to
aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the
government the use of the same for postal, military, and other
purposes, approved July first, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo,' approved July second, eighteen hundred and sixty-four."
The legislature-of the Territory of Idaho, in pursuance of
said third section, did provide a law for the condemnation by
railroad iompanies of the right of way over possessory claims,
(Rev. Stat. of Idaho, Title 7,) and undoubtedly the defendant's
claim was a possessory one, within the meaning of the legislation of Congress. Indeed, as we have seen, the plaintiff
company recognized the applicability of this section and instituted proceedings of condemnation under the Idaho act before
it occurred to it to ask the aid of a court of equity in taking
possession of the defendant's land and improvements without
compensation.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Idaho, and it is accordingly
Aft-med.

McCARTY v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANTY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 9. Argued November 14, 15, 1895.-Decided December 2, 1895.

The inventions claimed in the third and fourth claims of letters patent No.
339,913, dated April 13, 1886, issued to Harry C. McCarty for an improvement in car trucks, if not void for want of novelty, as the application
of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject, with no
change in the manner of application, and no result substantially distinct
in its nature, were inventions of such a limited character as to require
a narrow construction; and, being so construed, the letters patent are
not infringed by the bolsters used by the appellee.

McCARTY v. ILEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD CO.

111

Statement of the Case.
If, upon the face of a recordi anything is left to conjecture as to what-was
-necessarily involved and decided, there is no estoppel in it when pleaded,
and nothing conclusive in it when offered as evidence.

THis Was a bill in equity for'the infringement of two letters
patent issued to McCarty for imiprdvements in car trucks, viz.:
Patent No. 314,459, dated March 24, 1885, and patnt N6.
339,913, dated April 13, 1886. The application for the Arst
patent was 'filed June 5, 1884, and for the ,second patent,
August 31, 1883, so that in reality the second patbnt represents the prior invention. Upon the hearing in this court,
complainants abandoned their cldims under "the first patent,
No. 314,459, and asked for a decree only upon the third and
fourth claims of the second patent, No., 339,913.
The invention covered by this patent cdnsists of a metallic
bolster for car trucks, 'upon which the whole body of the ear
is carried by a swinging pivot, as shown in the following
drawings:

Figure 1 of these drawings represents a side view of the car
truck between the ivheels, the ends of the bolster resting upon
the side irons A of this truck. Figure 2 represents the bolster,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Appellants.

formed of a top iron bar, F, and a lower iron bar, G, the bar
F being arched and bolted at its ends to the bar G. Between
the bars are the supporting metallic columns H, which rest on
the bar G. The crown or central portion of the bar F rests
upon these columns, the bars and columns being firmly bolted
together. J represents the side bearings, which rest on and
are bolted to the bar F, and have connected with them the
ends of the truss rods K, which are of inverted arch form.
These side bearings and truss rods, however, are immaterial
in the present case. On the under side of the ends of the bar
G are screwed the plates P, whose sides are notched or grooved,
as at a, to receive the columns B of the side irons, the plates
thus forming the end guides or supports of the upper bolster.
The ends of the bar G are turned upwardly, forming the
flanges Q, against which the ends of the bar F abut.
The third and fourth claims, the only ones in issue, were as
follows:
"3. The lower bar G having flanges Q turned up on its
ends, in combination with the arched upper bar F, having its
ends bearing'against said flanges, the.guide plates P, bolted to
the ends of said bars under the same, the stops or blocks M
inserted between bars F and G, near their ends, and the
pillars H, also interposed between said bars, as stated."
"4. The upper bolster, composed of the bent bar F, straight
bar G, and interposing columns M, in combination with the
plates P, secured beneath the bars FG at their ends, and
notched or grooved on their sides at a, to receive the columns
B of the side irons, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth."
The answer of the defendants denied that McCarty was the
original inventor of the alleged improvements; averred that
said improvements were not of any advantage to the public;
that the inventions were not patentable; had been described
in prior publications; and had been publicly used elsewhere.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the bill was dismissed, and complainants appealed to this court.
Mr. Jerome (azrty and .Xir. R. A. Parker for appellants.

McCARTY v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAI=OAD C0.

118

-Opinion of the Court.

Art,.

obrt-J. FiAer or appellee.

MR. JUSTiE BRowN, after stating the case,, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The specification 'of the patent in this 'case does not,,as
specifications, ordinarily do, state the peculiar functions of the
patented device, the defects it is designed to remedy, or the
features that distinguish-it from other similar devices., This
dmission, however, is supplied by the testimony, which shows
that the invention was due to the frequent breaking'of wooden
bolsters, of -the form in common use, in what were termed
'the "diamo i d truck," and other forms of car trucks. After
some fruitless experiments, McCarty conceived tdie idea of
using two iron plates, 'thereby forming a strong bolster, without the disadvantage found in 'the use of wood alond, or wood
in connection with the iron plates. 'This resulted in the application for patent No. 339,913, for a bolster partly suppoted
by truss 'rods. It soon appeared, however,, that the form
shown in the drawings of 339,913 possessed. 'the requisite
strength without the, truss rods, which were. accordingly dispensed with, and patent No. 314,45.9 subsequently applied for.
A few days after McCarty applied for his first patent,
viz., September 10, 1883, one William H. Montz made application for a Similar device,: upon which a 'Patent was
granted, apparently by mistake of the Patent' Office, and an
interference then declared between them. Priority in invention was 'awarded to McCarty, February 24,-'1886, neither
party taking any testimony. In this connection 'there' was
much evidence tending to show that in October, 1882, a convention of master car builders was held at Niagara Falls, at
which McCarty's model was -exhibited and examined by car
builders, among Nvhom was Mr. Lentz, master car builder of
the Lehigh-'company, defendant in this case. " Shortly after
this Mr. Lentz wrote an official letter in behalf of the 'defendant, requesting McCarty to send a blue-print' of his truck,
as shown at Niagara' Falls the week' before. A ble-print
was accordingly sent. to him on October 24, vhich. corVOL. CLX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

responded with the drawing annexed to patent No. 339,913,
soon after which the defendant company began the manufacture of bolsters for use in their cars substantially after the
form in the blue-print, and in the following year, Montz made
application for the patent upon which the interference was
declared between him and McCarty, which resulted in awarding priority of invention to McCarty.
But this question of
priority, if not settled conclusively by the interference, becomes
immaterial in this case in view of the anticipating device set
up as a defence, which if sustained would probably apply as
well to the one patent as to the other.
Freight cars are generally, if not universally, constructed so
as to ride upon two four-wheeled trucks, upon which the cars
are supported by means of devices called bolsters. One of
these devices is attached to the bottom of the car body, and is
-called a body bolster. The other is attached to the truck, and
is called the truck bolster. The body bolster rests upon the
truck bolster, and at the point of contact there is a device
called the centre bearing plate, which, acting in connection
with a king bolt, permits the truck to conform to inequalities
and curvatures in the track, regardless of the direction of the
axis of the car body. Side supports, shown as J in figure 2, are
also furnished, to secure stability of the car upon the truck,
and prevent any tendency to upset, by limiting the rocking
of the car body. Ordinarily, though, the weight is carried
upon the centre bearing platq, that the swivelling may
be done as easily as possible, in order to avoid friction
between the car and the side bearings, especially in hauling a
heavy train around a curve.
Truck bolsters are sometimes set rigidly upon the truck
frame. These, however, were found defective since, in case of
inequalities in the track, the sinking of bad joints, the unevenness of side tracks and their approaches, and more especially
in cases of derailment, the trucks were subjected to a severe
torsional strain, which racked them, loosened their bolts, and
weakened their entire structure. To obviate this, it had become common to rest the ends of the bolster upon springs in
the side trusses between the wheels, as shown in figure 1, and

McCARTY v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD CO. 115
Opinion of the Court.

also in several prior 'patents. These are termed -floating bolsters, the 'object of which is to relieve the car from shocks
caused by any unevenness of the tracks or roadbed.
Bolsters made of wood, which were formerly used and
found to be sufficient under' light loads,, especially when
trussed, were, when used to carry the heavy ldads of modern
cars, wlhich are double, and even triple the weight formerly
carried, found insufficient, and have largely given place to bolsters of iron.
The bolster in question. consists'of two bars of metal, F and
G, placed one upon the other, the lower one, G, being horizontal, and the upper one, F, arched so as to form the truss.
The lower bar is made longer than the upper, and its ends
are turned up into flanges, Q, so as to form abutments or
bearing surface for the ends .of the upper bar, and thus -to
receive the end thrust caused by the weight imposed upon, the
bolster. Between the two bars, at their central point, are
supports or columns, HIT, which rest at their lower ends upon
the lower bar and hold upon their upper ends the upper bar,
fastening bolts being passed through the bars and the columns.
Similar short columns, MM, are placed between the bars at the
point where the arch of the upper bar begins. To the under
side of the bolster so formed is bolted a plate, P,-which serves
to guide-the bolster between the columns of the truck frame,
the sides of this plate being notched, as shown at a, so as
to fit around the columns of the truck frame. In connection
with this truck bolster, there are truss rods, K, which pass
diagonally through castings placed upon the upper side of
the truss, and ar6 supported upon seats under the -lower bar,
and provided with the usual screw threads and nuts'for giving
them the proper degree of tension. These truss rods, however, form no part of the third and fourth claims in dispute.
These claims differ from each other principally in the fact
that the flanges Q at the ends of the lower bar G,, as well as
the pillars H, constituting elemnents in the third claim, are not
found in the fourth; while the fourth describes the plates P,
which are stated' in the third claim to be 1Cbolted to the ends
of said bars under thesame," as "secured beneath the bars

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

FG at their ends, and notched or grooved on their.sides at a,
to receive the columns B of the side irons, substantially as and
for the purpose set forth." There is no suggestion in either
of these claims that the ends of the bolster rest upon springs
in the side trusses, although they are so described in the specification and exhibited in the drawings. It is suggested, however, that this feature. may be read into the claims for the
purpose of sustaining the patent. While this may be done
with a view of showing the connection in which a device is
used, and proving-that it is an operative device, we know of
no principle of law which would authorize us to read into a
claim an element which is not present, for the purpose of
making out a case of novelty or infringement. The difficulty
is that if we once begin to include elements not mentioned in
the claim in order to limit such claim and avoid a defence of
anticipation, we should never know where to stop. If, for
example, a prior device were produced exhibiting the combination of these claims ylus the springs, the patentee might insist
upon reading some other element into the claims, such for
instance as the side frames and all the other operative portions
of the mechanism constituting the car truck, to prove that the
prior device was not an anticipation. It might also require us
to read into the fourth claim the flanges and pillars described
in the third. This doctrine is too obviously untenable to require argument.
The court below dismissed the bill upon the ground that
the patent had been substantially anticipated by prior devices,
which required nothing more than mechanical skill to adapt
them to the purposes of this patent. In this connection, defendant introduced a device knoivn as the "Old Metal Transom," which appeats to have existed prior to 1882, and probably before the date of the McCarty invention, which he fixes
as in June, 1881, although from his correspondence with the
Patent Office it appears very doubtful whether he perfected
it before July, 1882. This transom was used not as a truck
bolster, but as a body bolster, and consisted of a straight bar
corresponding to the bar G, having the flanges Q at the end,
a bent bar corresponding to F, and interposed columns corre-

TXcCARTY v. LEITGH VALLEY RAILROAD CO.

1-17

Opinion of the Court.

sponding to the columns M., It is in fact the McCarty bolster
turned upside down, with the plates P, which are only neces
sary in a floating bolster, omitted. The only object of these
plates, fitted as they are with notches to embrace the columns
of the side trusses, is to serve as a guide for the ends of the
bolster as they rise and fall upon the springs.
Defendant also exhibited the Naugatuck truck,, which appeared to have been used upon the'Naugatuck Railroad in, the
State of Connecticut as early as 1862, and was still in actual
use upon the New York, iNew Haven and Hartford Railroad,
the present owner of the Naugatuck. This contains a truck
bolster having all the substantial elements of the McCarty
combination, including the straight bar and flan'ges, the bent
bar and the intervening columns, although, like the Old Metal
Transom, it contained nothing corresponding to the plates P,
which, as before observed, are only reqvired in connection
with a floating bolster. The ends of this bolster were fitted
rigidly to the side trusses. The springs, instead of supporting
the ends of the bolster, were placed over the journal bearings,
and imparted a limited motion to the carriage. The guide
plates are obviously unnecessary in this construction.
The following drawings exhibit the McCarty bolster so far
as the combinations of the third and fourth claims are concerned, and the corresponding features of the Naugatuck
bolster:

T 1e

Tke' JuquwZJ~c~BoAstaI%

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The invention, then, of McCarty consisted in taking the
Naugatuck truck or bolster, turning it into a floating bolster,
by adding the guide plate, P, and resting its ends upon the
springs in the side trusses, which springs, however, are not
made an element of either the third or fourth claims. Even
if they had been claimed, they would not of themselves constitute a novel feature, as they are admitted to have been used
long before, and are described in several prior patentsin connection with bolsters of the old pattern. The wedge-shaped
blocks or columns M[ are unimportant, as angle irons in analogous positions are well known in the art, and are shown in
prior patents. In addition to that, it does not appear that
defendant used them. The Naugatuck truck was doubtless
improved by the changes made by McCarty; but if there were
anything more in this than mechanical skill, or the aggregation of familiar devices, each operating in its old way to produce an aggregated result, it was invention of such a limited
character as to require a narrow construction. The case is
not unlike that of the PennV/lvania Railroadv. -Locomotive
Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, where a patent for employing a
particular car truck, already in use on railroad cars, on the
forward end of a locomotive, was held void for the want of
novelty, the court referring to the familiar principle that the
application of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject, with no change in the manner of application, and
no result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a
patent, even if the new form of result has not before been
contemplated.
There is another consideration which leads to the same conclusion. The original application, made by McCarty, contained
among other things a broad-claim for "a truck bolster provided on its ends with supporting and guiding plates, substantially as and for the purpose set forth." This claim, being
obviously too broad in view of the prior patents, was amended
so as to read as follows: "A truck bolster provided at its ends
with plates which are notched to fit upon vertical parts of the
frame so as to serve as guides and supports for said bolster,
substantially as set forth." This claim having been apparently

McCARTY v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAItROAD CO.

119

Opinion of the Court.

rejected, the patentee abandoned his broad claim for anotched
plate, and claimed only a plate in combination with the other
features of his bolster, which was finally allowed. His acquiescence in the rulings of the Patent Office in this particular
indicates very clearly that he should be restricted-to the-combination claimed, and that the case'is not one calling for a
liberal construction.
In view of these limitations upon the McCarty patent, was
there any infringement in defendant's device? This device
contained the bars F and G, and the pillars H of the McCarty
patent, but instead of having the flanges Q upon the ends of
the lower bar, and the guide plates P, there was substituted
a cap shown in the patent to Montz, of which the following is
a drawing:

This cap contains a recessi i, for the reception of the ends of
the bolster bar, which are thereby maintained in proper position
with respect to each other, and is secured to the ends of the bolster bar by means of two bolts passing vertically through them.
The cap, which fits between the posts of the side frame 'and
rests upon a spring, is provided at each side with flanges, i,
which embrace the outer and inner faces of the posts, and
prevent-a longitudinal motion of the bolster, while permitting
the same to move freely in a vertical direction. Nfow, as in
view of the Nfaugatuck truck, there was nothing which could
be called novel in the third and f6urth claims of the McCarty
patent, except the guide plates P, which were used to adapt
this bolster to the purposes of a floating bolster by resting its
ends on springs; and as the cap in question is an obvious de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

parture from the device in this particular, we cannot say that
it is an infringement, although it accomplishes practically the
same purpose as the flanges Q and plate P of the McCarty
patent. Had it been wholly novel to rest the ends of the
bolster upon springs, by means of guide plates, it is possible we
might have been able to hold this cap to be an infringement;
but as the novelty consists, not in resting the ends of bolsters
generally upon springs .by means of a guide plate, but in so
locating the ends of a bolster of a particular construction,- we
think the employment of a different means of locating it avoids
the charge of infringement.
It is further claimed that the defendant is estopped to
question the novelty of the McCarty patent and its priority of
invention by the interference proceedings in the Patent Office.
Aside from the fact that the issues in those proceedings
included the truss rods, which are not used by the defendant,
the evidence that the defendant was a party in privity to
Montz's application for the patent which was awarded to him,
or that he made his application in their interest, is too inconclusive to justify us in holding that the company was bound
by the result of this proceeding. It practically rests upon
Montz's reply to the question why he did not proceed with the
interference, that he had no orders from his superior officers
of the road. This we think is insufficient, in the absence of
affirmative evidence that the company had knowledge of the
proceeding, and assented to the action taken by Montz.
There is not that certainty to every intent, which Lord Coke
held necessary to constitute an estoppel, and as observed by
this court in Russel v. Place,94 U. S. 606, 610, "If upon the
face of a record anything is left to conjecture as to what was
necessarily involved and decided, there is no estoppel in it
when pleaded, and nothing conclusive in it when offered as
evidence."
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is,
therefore,

