OCTOBER TERM, 189&

408

Syllabus.

HICKORY v. 'UNITED STATES.
EROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 491.

Submitted March 5, 1895. -- Decided January 6, 1896.

An assignment of error which indicates the subject-matter in the charge to
which the exceptions relate with sufficient clearness to enable the court,
from a mere inspection of the charge, to ascertain the particular matter
referred to, is sufficient.
Acts of concealment by an accused are competent to go to the jury as tending to establish guilt, but they are not to be considered as alone conclusive, or as creating a legal presumption of guilt, but only as circumstances
to be considered and weighed in connection with other proof with the
same caution and circumspection which their inconclusiveness, when
standing alone, requires.
The presumption of guilt arising from the flight of the accused is a presumption of fact - not of law - and is merely a circumstance tending
to increase the probability of the defendant's being the guilty person,
which is to be weighed by the jury like any other evidentiary circumstance.
A statement in a charge to the jury that no one who was conscious of
innocence would resort to concealment is substantially an instruction
that all men who do so are necessarily guilty, and magnifies and distorts
the power of the facts on the subject of the concealment.
The court below charged the jury as to the probative weight which should
be attached to the flight of the accused, as follows: "And not only this,
but the law recognizes another proposition as true, and it is that 'the
wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the innocent are as bold as a
lion.' That is a self evident proposition that has been recognized so
often by mankind that we can take it as an axiom and apply it to this
case." Held, that this was tantamount to saying to the .jury that flight
created a legal presumption of guilt, so strong and so conclusive, that it
was the duty of the jury to act on it as axiomatic truth, and as such that
it was error.
On these points the charge of the court was neither calm, nor impartial, but
put every deduction which could be drawn against the accused from the
proof of concealment and flight, and omitted or obscured the converse
aspect; and in so doing it deprived the jury of the light requisite to the
safe use of these facts for the ascertainment of truth.
The plaintiff in error being indicted for the murder of one Wilson, became
a witness on his own behalf on his trial. The court charged the jury:
"Bearing in mind that he stands before you as an interested witness,

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
-while these circumstances are of a character that they cainot be bribed,
that cannot be dragged into. perjury, they cannot -,be seduced by.bribery
into perjury, but they stand as bloody naked facts before you, speaking
for Joseph Wilson and justice, in opposition to and confronting this
defendant, who stands before you as an interested party; the party who
has in this case the largest interest a man can have in any case upon
earth." Held, that such a charge crosses the line which separates the
impartial exercise of the judicial function from the regionr of partisanship where reason is disturbed, passions excited, and prejudices are
necessarily called into play.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.,
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR.JUSTICE

Wnrr delivered the opiion of the court.

Sam Downing, alias Sam Hickory, and Thomas Shade were
indicted in October, 1891, for the murder in the Indian Territory of a white man by the name of Joseph Wilson. Downing, who was at the time of the alleged killing nineteen years
old, was tried and convicted, and the case was brought by
error here. The verdict and judgment were reversed and the
dickory v. United State,
case was remanded for a new trial.
i51 u. S. 303. On the trial, the defendant was again found
guilty of murder, and the case for the second time comes
here by error. The assignments of error are twelve in number, and all relate to errors alleged to have been committed
by the trial court in the charge given to the jury. The
charge covers twenty pages of the printed record. To correctly understand the merits of the various assignments of
error it is necessary to briefly refer to the testimony which is
stated in a condensed form in the bill of exceptions.
The testimony for the prosecution tended,' to' show that
Wilson, the deceased, was a deputy marshal and had a warrant for the arrest of the accused upon the charge of taking
whiskey into the Indian country. With this 'warrant he
started to a house where he expected to find Hickory,' being

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

accompanied by John Carey. Wilson and Carey proceeded
together until just before reaching this house. Carey, then
informed Wilson that he would go no further with him, as he
did not wish to be known in the neighborhood in connection
with the arrest. It was then arranged between them that
Carey should remain in the woods while Wilson should continue on to the house and make the arrest. Wilson had with
him "a large white handle pistol," and told Carey that if he
found the accused he would fire 'off his pistol after arresting
him, in which case Carey would meet him, "close to Brown's
on the prairie." Wilson then proceeded on his way and
Carey remained in the woods awaiting the signal agreed
upon. In about half an hour Carey heard the firing of "a
gun," then "two guns" went off together, then there were
several shots "which sounded as if they were fired by one
man, and as if he was taking his time to fire." Carey waited
for Wilson until sundown, and as he did not then come he
(Carey) went to the house of Squirrel Carey and "told him
about hearing the shooting and that Wilson was to fire his
pistol, but he did not say how many times." The government also introduced proof showing that some. days afterwards the body of Wilson was found in a gulch or ravine,
and there was a gunshot wound straight through the body;
that the skull was fractured, and that there was a contused
wound or bruise at the base of the brain. The person of the
deceased had not been rifled, and on it was found his watch
and papers, among the latter the warrant for the arrest of
Hickory.
Further testimony was introduced tending to show that an
examination of the house where Wilson had gone to arrest
the accused disclosed spots of blood on the porch, in the
house, on the door, and in the yard at several places, and on
a wagon standing in the yard, and that efforts had been
made to conceal these spots of blood. There-was also testimony showing bullet marks in the house; that "certainly one
and probably two shots were fired from a southeasterly direction where the marshal likely was at the commencement of
the shooting, towards the front door, one striking a corner

.HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.

411

Opinion of the Court.

post and "the other the wall near the door. Two shots had'
been fired from the inside of the house through the front door,
as shown by the holes. One shot had been fired from the
large front room, glancing the middle door shutter, which was
open; and going into the wall of the rear room, and another
had gone into the wall of said rear room opposite the centre
of the middle door."
Testimony was further offered tending to show that Wilson's horse was found dead some distance from the house, and
the witnesses could not tell whether "its throat had been cut
or eaten by wild animals, as they had been working on it."
It was also shown that when Wilson went to the house he
had a pistol, a bridle, and a saddle, on which a coat was
strapped, and these things were not found. The goveriment
then further introduced testimony tending to show that the
accused had told three or more witnesses "that he shot the
deceased, and hit him the first shot, but did not kill him, and
that Tom Shade, who was there with defendant, knocked
the deceased in the head with an axe; that after the killing
an attempt had been made to destroy the blood spots in the
house and yard." It further introduced testimony tending to
show that after the killing the accused was " ' scouting,' that
is, avoiding arrest." . Upon this proof the case for the prosecution was rested. The accused, after introducing testimony
tending to rebut the alleged confession by showing that he
was not in the place named at, the time it was stated the confession had been made, then testified in his own behalf,
admitting the killing of Wilson, and giving substantially the
following account of the occurrence: He was in the yard
hitching up a team of horses for the purpose of hauling a load
of posts, when Wilson came into the yard and asked him his
name, which he gave him, and thereupon Wilson put him
under arrest and read the warrant to him; that he replied,
"All right," and unharnessed the horses and turned them
loose; that Wilson asked him whether he was going to ride
one of the horses, and he replied, "No, that they did not
belong to him ;" that thereupon Wilson asked him who was
the owner of the horses, and he said the owner was not there,

OCTOBER TERAT, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

but lived in the neighborhood.

Wilson told him to take one

of the horses and they would ride to the owner's house, and
if he would not consent to Hickory riding away on it, it could
be returned. He again said all right, and put the bridle on
the horse, Wilson telling him to hurry up and get his saddle;
that he started to go into the house after his saddle, and
when he was about three steps from the porch he heard the
fire of a gun, and turning around saw Wilson with a revolver
in his hand and smoke corming from it; that he did not run
after the first shot, but walked on towards the house, when
a second shot was fired just as he was about to enter the
front door. That he went into the house and shut the front
door, intending to go out through a side room door and run off.
When he had gotten about as far as the middle door of the
side room he discovered Wilson coming in through the outside
door of the side room with his pistol raised at him (indicating
the pointing of a pistol) that he then ran to the east side of
the front room, got his gun, and went to the front door. The
marshal then appeared at the middle door of the side room,
exposing himself just enough to shoot, which he did, and that
he (the accused) returned the fire, which was followed by
further firing between them. The marshal then disappeared
from the door and went into the yard and fell down close by
the wagon. He (the accused) ran off and remained a half
an hour, and on coming back found the marshal dead; he
became frightened and did not know what to do, and, indeed,
did not know all that he did do; he put the body of the marshal on the wagon, and hauled it about a mile and a half from
the house, and then threw it out at the head of the gulch.
When he returned after doing this he found the marshal's
horse wounded in the knee. He took off the saddle and
bridle and hid them, and also the coat which was tied to the
saddle and the marshal's pistol and belt. The accused also
introduced a witness to the killing, a woman by the name of
Ollie Williams, his mistress. She testified to the marshal's
coming up to the place where the accused was standing in the
yard with the wagon and horses; to the accused starting
towards the house. She said that the marshal who was right

HICKORY

-v.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

by a tree then shot at him; that she did not se6 how the
marshal held his pistol the first time he shot; that the accused
was going into the door when the two shots were fired; that
the marshal came around to the outside room door with a
pistol in his hand, and told her to get out of the way; that
she went a quarter of a mile off, and had nothing to do with
the moving of the body of the deceased. The accused, moreover, introduced the testimony of a physician who had examined the bod.y of the deceased, and who contradicted the
statement that there was a fracture in the skull of the
deceased, and said there were two scalp wounds, one on
the top of the head and the other in the back; ".they had
the appearance of some blunt substance striking the head,
or the head striking the substance."
The opinion formed by us as to three of the assignments of
error will render an examination of the others unnecessary.
The three which we will consider are as follows:
"4t6. Because the court in commenting on the in6ulpatory
testimony as to the acts of the defendant with reference to the
body of the deceased, the alleged killing of the horse, in reference to what is charitable or brutal conduct, gives undue
prominence to the inculpatory facts, without summing up all
the testimony, as well for as against the defendant in reference to this branch of the case."
"T7th. Because the court, a second time in the charge in
going over the alleged conduct of the defendant subsequent to
the killing, and his conduct in flight, gives undue prominence
to the inculpatory facts, and gives them in a way that have
the effect of an argument against the defendant, and are not
a proper, full summing up of the facts upon this branch of the
case."
"11th. Because the court bears upon and gives undue prominence to the flight of defendant, and treats it absolutely as
true that defendant concealed the blood, killed the horse, and
destroyed the evidence of the allegdd killing."
It is contended by the defendant in error that of these assignments the fourth and seventh are not sufficiently specific
to merit consideration, because they do not point out the exact

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

words in the charge of the court complained of. The assignments are in exactly the same language as were the exceptions
taken during the trial and which the record declares "the
defendant presented at the time." Whilst it is true that the
assignments do not in terms state the precise language used
by the court, they yet indicate the subject-matter in the charge
to which the exceptions relate with sufficient clearness to enable us from a mere inspection of the charge to ascertain the
particular matter referred to. In considering, when this case
was previously before us, a similar objection to the adequacy
of an exception, we said: "The rule in relation to exceptions
to instructions is that the matter excepted to shall be so
brought to the attention of the court, before the retirement
of the jury, as to enable the judge to correct error, if there
be any, in his instructions to them, and this is also requisite
in order that the appellate tribunal may pass upon the precise
question raised, without being compelled to read the record
to ascertain it." it is here unquestionable on the very face of
the bill of exceptions that the objections were reserved before
the retirement of the jury, and that the trial court was fully
aware of their import and had the opportunity to make such
corrections, if any, as its judgment may have deemed necessary to prevent the charge from being misunderstood by the
jury. This is made clear not only by the language of the bill
of exceptions, .but also by the charge itself, which contains a
statement by the court, entirely inconsistent with a possibility
of there having been any surprise or misconception. The
court said:
"There is a little bit of history on that, and I apprehend
the gentlemen won't take any exception to reading from this
book" (the Bible). "There are a great many exceptions filed
here to almost everything said by the court, but I hope they
won't take any exception to this."
The first comments of the court upon the facts in reference
to concealment (covered by the fourth assignment) and its instruction as to the weight to be given the proof on the subject
of the flight of the accused (covered by the eleventh assignment) are so connected in the charge as'to cause the examina-

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the one to necessarily involve- the other. We shall,
therefore, examine at the same time the errors complained of
in these two assignments.
First. Errors comjplained of inr the fourth and eleventh
assignments.

The language of the charge to which these assignments
relate immediately follows the reference made by the court to
the number of exceptions reserved, and is in these words:
"And there is another fact that is so common that I have
lut to remind you of it, because that which makes up your
common knowledge you can use in the investigation of these
cases, and it is this: There is no m n who has arrived at the
years of discretion who has not been so created that he has
that in his mind and heart which makes him conscious of an
act that is innocent upon his part, and his conduct when connected with an act of that character will be entirely different
from the conduct of a man who is conscious of vrong and
guilt. In the one case he has nothing to conceal; in the one
case his interest and self-protection, his self-security, prompts
him to seek investigation, to see to it that it is investigated as
soon as possible. This is no new principle. I say it is as old
as the days of the first murder. There is a little bit of history
on that, and I apprehend the gentlemen won't take any exceptions.to reading from' this book. There are a great many
exceptions filed here, to almost everything said by the court,
but I hope they won't take any exceptions to this. There is
a little bit of history illustrative of the conduct of men:
"' And Cain talked with Abel, his brother; and it came to
pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up-against
Abel, his brother, and slew him.
"'And the Lord said.unto Cain, where is Abel, thy brother I
And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper?
"'And He said, what hast thou done? the voice of thy
brother's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.'
"'Am I my brother's keeper? ' From that day to the time
when Professor Webster murdered his associate and concealed
his remains, this concealment of the evidence of crime has been
regarded by the law as a proper fact to be taken into consid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

eration as evidence of guilt, as going to show guilt, as going
to show that he who does an act is consciously guilty, has conscious knowledge that he is doing wrong, and he, therefore,
undertakes to cover up his crime.
"Now, there may be exceptions to the general rule. General as it is, it may have its exceptions, but ihe question for
you to pass upon is whether or not in the first place there
were acts upon the part of this defendant, either while acting
alone or in concert with others assisting him, that looked towards concealing this act of the killing of Wilson; what these
acts were; if they were cruel, if they were unnatural, if they
were barbarous, if they were brutal, you still have a right,
and it is your duty to take them into consideration. If they
were of that character you are to bring to bear your observation in life that men who are conscious of innocence do not
usually characterize their conduct after a killing by that sort
of acts. You are to see what the acts were. You are to talie
into, account the concealment of this body, the concealment
of this horse, the killing of the horse, and the concealing of
everything that pertained -to that man, the effort to wipe out
the blood stains left there where they might be evidences of
killing, where they might be discovered afterwards as evidences of the killing. All these things are facts that you must
take into account, and not only that, but the law recognizes
another proposition as true, and it is, that 'The wicked flee
when no man pursueth, but the innocent are as bold as a li6n.'
That is a self-evident proposition that has been recognized so
often by mankind that we can take it as an axiom and apply
it in this case. Therefore, the law says that if after a man
kills another that he undertakes to fly, if he becomes a fugitive
from justice, either by hiding in the jurisdiction, watching out
to keep out of the way of the officers, or of going into the
Osage country out of the jurisdiction, that you have a right
to take that fact into consideration, because it is a fact that
does not usually characterize an innocent act."
It is undoubted that acts of concealment by an accused are
competent to go to the jury as tending to establish guilt, yet
they are not to be considered as alone conclusive, or as creat-

HIOKORtY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cour.

ing a legal presumption of guilt; they are mere circumstances
to be considered and weighed in connection with other proof
with that caution and circumspection which their inconclusiveness when standing alone require. The rule, on the subject, has
had nowhere a clearer and more concise expression than that
given by Chief Justice Shaw in the Webster case, to which
the -trial court adverted. Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush.
295, 316. The learned Chief Justice said: "To the same head
may be referred all attempts on the part of the accused to
suppress evidence, to suggest false and deceptive explanations,
and to cast suspicion without just cause on other persons; all
or any of which tend somewhat to prove consciousness of
guilt, and when proved exert an influence against the accused.
But this consideration is not to be pressed too urgently; because an innobent man, when placed by circumstances in a
condition of suspicion and danger, may resort to deception in
the hope of avoiding the force of such proofs. Such was the
case often mentioned in the books and cited here yesterday,
of a man convicted of the murder of his niece, who had
suddenly disappeared under circumstances which created a
strong suspicion that she was murdered. le attempted to
impose on the court by presenting another. girl as the niece.
The deception was discovered and naturally operated against
him, though the actual appearance of the niece alive afterwards proved conclusively that he was not guilty of the murder."
In Ryan v. The People, 79 N. Y. 593, considering an objection that the trial court erred in admitting evidence of an
attempt to escape from the sheriff, the court said: "There
are so many reasons for such conduct, consistent with innocence, that it scarcely comes up to the standard of evidence
tending to establish guilt, but this and similar evidence has
been allowed upon the theory that the jury will give it such
weight as it deserves, depending 'upon the surrounding circumstances. It was not error to admit it." See also People v.
Stanley, 47 California, 113; People v. Forsythe, 65 California,
101; State v. Gee, 85 Missouri, 647; State v. Brooks, 92 Missouri, 542; Swan v. People, 98 Illinois, 610; Anderson v. State,
voL. cLx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

104 Indiana, 467, 472; Jamio v. The Peopk, 145 Illinois,
357.
The cases which illustrate the rule in various phases are
too numerous to review. They are collected in the text-books,
and will be found in a note at the foot of c. 14, ยง 750, of
Wharton's Criminal Evidence, 9th ed. The modern English
law on the subject is referred to in Wills on Circumstantial
Evidence, p. 70, citing the opinion of Mr. Baron Gourney in
Regina v. Belaney, which is thus recapitulated: "By the
common law, flight was considered so strong a presumption of
guilt, that in cases of treason and felony it carried the forfeiture of the party's goods, whether he were found guilty or
acquitted; and the officer always, until the abolition of the
practice by statute, called upon the jury, after verdict of acquittal, to state whetlier the party had fled on account of the
charge. 'these several acts in all their modifications are
indications of fear; but it would be harsh and unreasonable
invariably to interpret them as indications of moral consciousness, and greater weight has sometimes been attached to them
than they have fairly warranted. Doubtless the manly carriage of integrity always commands the respect of mankind,
and all tribunals do homage to the great principles from which
consistency springs; but it does not follow, because the moral
courage and consistency which generally accompany the consciousness of uprightness raise a presumption of innocence,
that the converse is always true. Men are differently constituted as respects both animal and moral courage, and fear
-may spring from causes very different from that of conscious
guilt, and every man is therefore entitled to a candid construction of his words and actions, particularly if placed in circumstances of great and unexpected difficulty."
And the same author at p. 80 quotes the observation of Mr.
Justice Abbott on a trial for murder where evidence was given
proving flight: "A person however conscious of innocence
might not have courage to stand a trial, but might, although
ifinocent, think it necessary to consult his safety by flight. It
may be," added the learned judge, "a conscious anticipation of
punishment for guilt, as the guilty will always anticipate the

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

consequences, but at the same time it may possibly be according to the frame of mind, merely an inclination to consult his safety by flight rather than stand his trial on a charge
so heinous and scandalous as this."
So, again, at p. 88, the same writer says: 11So also is the concealment of death by the destruction or attempted destruction
of human remains, (a presumption of guilt,) but in this case
the presumption of criminality results from the act of concealment rather than from the nature of the means employed,
however revolting, which must be regarded only as incidental
to the fact of concealment, and not as aggravating the character and tendency of the act itself. Where a prisoner tried
for murder admitted that he had cut off the head and legs
from the trunk of a female, and concealed the remains in
several places, but alleged that ler death had taken place *by
accident while she was in his company, and that in the alarm
of the moment, and to prevent suspicion, he had determined to conceal the death, Lord Chief Justice Tindal told
the jury that the concealment of death under such circumstance
had always been considered to be a point of the greatest suspicion,. but that this evidence must be received with a certain
egree of modification, "and especially in a case where the
feelings might be excited by the singular .means of concealment adopted by the prisoner ; that this point of evidence was,
therefore, for the consideration of the jury, and it was for them
to show how far it was proof of the prisoner's guilt, but the
,mere general fact of. concealment, added the learned judge,
is to be considered, and not the circumstances under which it
took place."
The text-writers generally state the principle in accordance.
with the foregoing.
"Few things," says Best on .Presumption, p. 323, "distinguish an enlightened system of judicature from a rude and
barbarous one more than the manner in which they deal with
evidence. The former weighs testimony, whilst the latter,
conscious perhaps of its inability to do so or careless of the
consequences of error, at times rejects whole portions en
maose, and at others converts pieces of evidence into rules of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

law by investing with conclusive effect some whose probative
force has been found to be in general considerable. If any
proof of this were wanted it would be amply supplied by our
law with reference to the species of evidence under consideration. Our ancestors, observing that guilty persons usually
fled from justice, adopted the hasty conclusion that it was
only the guilty who did so, according to the maxim. 'fatetur
facinus quifugit judicium,' so that under the old law, a man

who fled to avoid being tried for felony forfeite d all his goods
even though he were acquitted; and the jury were always
charged to inquire not only whether the prisoner were guilty
of the offence, but also whether he fled for it, and, if so, what
goods and chattels he had." This practice was not formally
abolished until the Stats. 7 and 8 Geo. IV, c. 28, sec. 5. "In
modern times more correct views have prevailed, and the
evasion of or flight from justice seems now nearly reduced to
its true place in the administration of the criminal law,
namely, that of a circumstance -a fact which it is always
of importance to take into consideration, and combined with
others may afford strong evidence of guilt, but which, like
any other piece of presumptive evidence, it is equally absurd
and dangerous to invest with infallibility." And this is
quoted with approval in Burrill on Circumstantial Evidence,
p. 473. See also Roscoe's Criminal Evidence, 8th American
ed. p. 30. Mr. Wharton, in his Criminal Evidence, after
referring in a note to the American authorities, states the
rule in accordance with the foregoing, and concludes.: "The
question, it cannot be too often repeated, is simply one of
inductive probable reasoning from certain established facts.
All the courts can do when such inference is invoked is to
say that escape, disguise, and similar acts afford, in connection
with other proof, the basis from which guilt may be inferred,
but this should be qualified by a general statement of the
countervailing conditions, incidental to a comprehensive view
of the question."
In a foot note at p. 645 this author collects several marked
and peculiar instances where a person had fled .who was
undoubtedly innocent. One of these instances is this: "Dr.

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Thomas Fuller gives the following quaint excuse for running
away from London when charged with treason: And if any
tax me, as Laban taxed Jacob, 'Wherefore didst thou flee
away secretly without taking solemn leave V I say with
Jacob to Laban, ' Because I was afraid.' And that plain dealing patriarch, who could not be accused for purloining a shoe
latchet of other men's goods, confessed himself guilty of that
awful felony that he I stole away' for his own safety; seeing
truth may sometimes seek corners, not as fearing her cause,
but as suspecting her judge."
Thompson on Trials, Tit. 6, c. 69, ยง 2543, makes this statement: "It is often inaccurately said that .the flight of the
accused creates a presumption of his guilt, and this presumption is sometimes inadvertently dealt with as though it was a
presumption of law. But it belongs to. that class of presumptions which are generally classified as presumptions of fact. If it
were a presumption of law, the jury would be bound to draw
it in every case- of flight, and the court might so instruct
them; whereas it is merely a i'cumstance tending to increase
the probability of the defendant's being the guilty person,
which on sound principle is to be weighed by the jury like
any other evidentiary circumstance."
Measuring the correctness of the charge now considered by
these principles and authorities, it is at once demonstrated
to have been plainly erroneous. It magnified and distorted
the proving power of the facts on the subject of the concealment; it made the weight of the evidence depend not so much
on the concealment itself as on the manner in which it was
done. Considering the entire context of the charge, it practically instructed that the facts were, under both divine and
human law, conclusive proof of guilt. The statement that no
one who was conscious of innocence would resort to concealment was substantially an instruction that all men who did so
were necessarily guilty, thus ignoring the fundamental truth,
evolved from the experience of mankind, that the innocent
do often conceal through fear or other emotion. The legal
influence which this language must have exerted on the jury
was increased by the subsequent instruction that it was as old

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

as the first murder for the conduct of an innocent person to
be different from that of a guilty one. Putting this language,
in connection with the epithets applied to the acts of concealment and the vituperation which the charge contains, it is
justly to be deduced that its effect-was to instruct that the
defendant was a murderer, and, therefore, the only province
of the jury was to return a verdict of guilty. It is true that
a subsequent portion of the charge refers to the evidence
on the subject of concealment as "proper to be taken into
consideration, as evidence of guilt," as going to show guilt.
But these qualified remarks did not recall the undue weight
which the previous language had affixed to the facts to be
considered by the jury. The instruction as to the probative
weight which the jury should attach to the fact of flight was
equally erroneous. It was as follows: "1
And not only this,
but. the law recognizes another proposition as true, and it is
that, ' the wicked flee, when no man pursueth, but the innocent are as bold as a lion.' That is a self-evident proposition
that has been recognized so often by mankind that we can
take it as an axiom and apply it to this case." This instruction was tantamount to saying to the jury that flight created
a legal presumption of guilt, so strong and so conclusive, that
it was the duty of the jury to act on it as an axiomatic truth.
On this subject, also, it is true, the charge thus given was
apparently afterwards qualified by the statement that the
jury had a right to take the fact of flight into consideration,
but these words did not correct the illegal charge already
given. Indeed, taking the instruction that flight created a
legal presumption of guilt with the qualifying words subsequently used, they were both equivalent to saying to the jury
that they were, in considering the facts, to give them the
weight which, as a matter of law, the court declared they
were entitled to have, that is, as creating a legal presumption
so well settled as to amount virtually to a conclusive proof of
guilt. In Starr v. Unhited States, 153 U. S. 614, 626, in considering the power of a Federal court to comment in charging
a jury on the evidence, we quoted with approval the language
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Burke v. .axweM, 81

HICK4)RY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Penn. St. 139, 153, saying: "When there is sufficient evidence
upon a given point to go to a jury, .it is the duty of the judge
to -submit it calmly and impartially. And if the expression. of
an opinion upon such evidence becomes a matter of duty under
the circumstances of the particular case, great care should be
exercised that such expression should be so given as not to
mislead, and especially that it should not be one-sided." The
charge given in this case violates every rule thus announced.
It was neither calm nor was it impartial. It put every deductidn which could be drawn against the accused from the proof
of concealment and flight, and omitted or obscured the converse
aspect. In so doing it deprived the jury of the light requisite
to safely use these facts as means to the ascertainment of.*truth.
Nor can it be considered that the language subsequently used
corrected the error. "Now (says the charge) there may be
exceptions to the general rule. General as it is, it may have
its exceptions." But none of the exceptions thus referred
to Were called to the attention of the jury. Indeed, taking
the language of the charge which follows the foregoing words,
it must have conveyed, by the strongest possible intiniatio i, the
impression to the jury that the case before them was controlled
by the general rule previously stated to them by the court,
although other cases might be an exception to such rule. For
these reasons the judgment must be reversed. In this state
of- the case it would ordinarily be unnecessary to consider the
other assignments. As, however, the case is before us for the
second time, and must be remanded for a new trial, the ends
of justice will best be subserved by passing on the remaining
assignment, that is to say, the eleventh assignment. The portion of the charge to which this assignment is addressed is as
follows:
"And then, again, there stands before you a witness who
was there, a positive witness, who saw this killing. That witness' is the defendant. Bear in mind when you are passing
upon this casethat the other witness to it cannot appear before
you, he cannot speak to you, except as he speaks by his body
as it was found, having been denied even the right of decent
burial, by thA. Iead body of his horse by the concealed weapons

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and the concealed saddle, by the blood stains that were obliterated. He stands before you, although he is in his grave,
speaking by the aid of the power and the might of these circumstances in this case. You are to see whether they harmonize with this statement of this transaction as given by the
defendant, bearing in mind that he stands before you as an
interested witness, while these circumstances are of a character
that they cannot be bribed, that cannot be dragged into perjury, they cannot be seduced by bribery into perjury, but they
stand as bloody, naked facts before you, speaking for Joseph
Wilson and justice, in opposition to and confronting this defendant, who stands before you as an interested party; the
party who has in this case the largest interest a man can have
in any case upon earth. While you are not to disbelieve his evidence because of that alone, if you are to do justice, if you are,
in the language of counsel, not to be cruel to the country, and
to the people of the country who are entitled to legal protection, you are to weigh these facts and see whether they harmonize with his statement when viewed by the light of your
intelligence, and when this case is illuminated by such facts,
whether it is in harmony with the statements of this interested
witness or in contradiction of them."
It is apparent that this part of the charge is replete with the
errors which we have already found to exist in the matter
which we have already considered. But the instruction contains an additional error of so grave a nature that we call
attention to it in order to prevent its recurrence. The manner
of contrasting the testimony of the accused with the circumstances connected with the concealment was clearly illegal.
The language in which this was done is: "Bearing in mind
that he stands before you as an interested witness, while these
circumstances are of a character that they cannot be bribed,
that cannot be dragged into perjury, they cannot be seduced
by bribery into perjury, but they stand as bloody, naked facts
before you, speaking for Joseph Wilson and justice, in opposition to and confronting this defendant, who stands before you
as an interested party; the party who has in this case the largest interest a man can have in any case upon earth." This

HIOKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

contrast thus made could have conveyed but one meaning to
the jury, that is, a warning that the testimony of the accused
was to be considered by them as of little or no weight because
he could be bribed, he could be dragged or seduced into perjury. Such denunciation of the testimony of an accused is
without legal warrant. Allison v. United States, 160 U. S.
203. Indeed, this instruction, besides giving rise to this error,
was also, if possible, more markedly wrong from the implications which it ConVeyed to the jury. It substantially said
to them the circumstances as to the killing and concealment
cannot be bribed, but the defendant can be; therifore
you must consider that these circumstances outweigh his
testimony, and it is hence your duty to convict him. In
Starr v. United States,,uri supra, speakifig through Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, this court called attention to the fact that
there were limitations on the power of a Federal court, in
commenting on the facts of a case, when instructing .ajury,
limitations inherent in and implied from the very nature of
the judicial office. In Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S.
145, 168, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Waite, this court
also said on the same subject:

".

. . every appeal by the

court to the passions or prejudices of the jury should be
it is the imperative duty of the
promptly rebuked, and ...
reviewing court to take care that wrong is not done in this
way.

.

.

."

Admonished by the duty resting on us in this

regard, we feel obliged to say that the charge which we have
considered crosses the line which separates the impartial exercise of the judicial function from the region of partisanship
where reason is disturbed, passions excited, and prejudices are
necessarily called into play.
Thejudgment is reversed, and the case remanded with direction8 to grant a new trial.

