CHAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case,

CEAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRIOT OF 3ARYLA.ND.

No. 91. Submitted December 8,1895.-Decided Januy 6,1896.
If a defendant, among other defences, In various forms, and upon several
grounds, objects to the jurisdiction of the court, and final judgment is
rendered for the plaintiff, and, upon a petition referring to all the proceedings in detail, and asking for a review of all the rulings of the court
upon the question of jurisdiction raised in the papers on file, a writ of
error is allowed generally, without formally certifying or otherwise specifying a definite question of jurisdiction, no question of *jurisdiction is
sufficiently certified to. this court under the act of Match 3, 1891, c. 517,
§ 5.
Upon a writ of error under the-act of March , 1891, c. 517, § 5, in a case
in which the constitutionality of a law of the United States was drawn
In question, this court has power to dispose of the whole case, including
all questions, 'whether of jurisdiction or of merits.
The act of August 1, 1888, c. 728, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury, whenever in his opinion it will be necessary or advantageous to the
United States, to acquire lands for a light-house by condemnation under
judicial proceedingi in a court of the United States for the district in
which the land is situated, is constitutional.
A petition for the condemnation of land for a light-house, filed by the
Attorney General upon the application of the Secretary of the Treasury,
under the act of August 1, 1888, c. 728, should be in the name of the
United States.
The only trial by jury required in proceedings in a couit *of the United
States for the condemnation of land under the act of Augrust 1, 1888,
c. 728, is a trial at the bar of the court upon the question of damages to
the owner of the land.

Tnis was a petition, filed March 21, 1890, in 'the District
Court Of the United, States for the District pf -Maryland,for
the condemnation, under the act of Congress of August 1,
1888, c. 728,1 of a perpetual easement in a strip of fast land
1

An act to authorize condemnation of land for sites of public buildings

and for other purpqses.
SEc. 1. In every case in which'the Secretary of the Treasury or any other
officer of the government has been, or hereafter shall be, authorized to pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the. Case.

on Hawkins Point in Anne Arundel County in the State of
Maryland -described by metes and bounds and courses and
distances, and as owned by Thomas C. Chappell- for the
purpose of transmitting rays of lights, without obstruction,
both by day and by night, between two beacon lights, known
as Hawkins Point Light and Leading Point Light, theretofore
'constructed and put in operation by the United States as
range lights of the Brewerton channel of the Patapsco River
in the State of Maryland.
The petition was in the name of "William Windom, Secretary of the Treasury of the United States and ez officio president of the Light-house Board of the United States; " and
alleged that under the provisions of section 4658 of .the
Revised Statutes of the United States the Light-house Board
is required to perform all administrative duties relating to
the construction, illumination, inspection and superintendence
of light-houses, light-vessels, beacons, buoys, and sea-marks and
their appendages; that Congress appropriates annually a sum
of money for repairs and incidental expenses of light-houses,
which is available to pay for the easement aforesaid; and
that in the opinion of the petitioner it was necessary and
advantageous to the United States to acquire this easement
by condemnation under judicial proceedings. The petition
was signed by the United States District Attorney, "who
cure real estate for the erection of a public building, or for other public uses,
he shall be, and hereby is, authorized to acquire the same for the United
States by condemnation under judicial process, whenever in his opinion it
Is necessary or advantageous to the government to do so ; and the United
States Circuit or District Courts of the district wherein such real estate is
located shall have jurisdiction of proceedings for such condemnation; and
it shall be the duty of the Attorney General of the United States, upon every
application of the Secretary of the Treasury under this act, or. such other
officer, to cause proceedings to be commenced for condemnation, within
thirty days from the receipt of the application at the Department of Justice.
Sc. 2. The practice, pleadings, forms and modes of proceeding, in
causes arising under the provisions of this act, shall conform, as near as
may be, to the practice, pleadings, forms and proceedings existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State within which such
Circuit or District Courts are held, any rule of the court to the contrary
notwithstanding. 25 Stat. 857.

CHAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

appears for the Secretary of the Treasury, the petitioner, by
direction of the Attorney General of the United States."
Upon the filing of the petition, the court made an order
that a copy be served on Chappell on or before MVarch 24,
1890, and that he show cause on or before April 10, 1890, why
the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
On April 9, 1890, Chappell, "1saving and reserving all
advantages and exceptions whatsoever, prays leave to except
to the order" aforesaid; and demurred to the petition, and
for cause of demurrer assigned "that there is no authority
of law for this proceeding; and also that it is not shown that
the Congress of the United States has appropriated or will
appropriate more than five thousand dollars to pay for said
easement, and that said easement is of a value greatly exceed:
ing five thousand dollars,. and whether Congress annually'or
has ever appropriated a sum of money for repairs and incidental expenses of the light-house, sufficient to pay for said
easement, which is applicable therefor; and also that there
is no party plaintiff made in said declaration and petition;
and also that the laws of the State of Mkrylaidrequire said
proceeding, if the right to any such has accrued, to be conducted in the circuit court for the county .where said land is
situated, and by the laws of the United States the said laws
of the State form the rule of decision in the courts of the
United States in this matter; and also that the United States
of America has passed no general law or special law, authorizing the petitioner or the Attorney General of the said United
States, nor any other person whatsoever, to ifistitute this proceeding, and said proceedin g is instituted ulra vires, and the
said United States cannot be made a party to said suit except
by the direction- and with the consent of -the law-M'aking
power, and said power has neither directed the same nor consented thereto."
On May 12, 1890, after argument on the demurrer, the
court, by'an order reciting that it appeared that the Secretary
of the Treasury, and ex oflcio president of the Light-house
Board of the United States, had been authorized to acquire
this easement for the use of the board, and was of opinion that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

it was necessary and advantageous to the United States to
acquire this easement by condemnation under judicial proceedings, and had made application to the Attorney General to
cause such proceedings to be commenced, overruled the demurrer; and, being of opinion that condemnation of this easement ought to be had by the United States, and that the
question of the damages which Chappell would sustain thereby
ought to be submitted to a jury, ordered "that, upon a day
to be fixed by this court, upon notice to said parties, a jury of
this court be empanelled, who shall be duly sworn to justly
and impartially value and assess the damages which the said
Chappell, as the owner of said land, will sustain by the acquisition by the United States of the easement aforesaid; and
that the said jury be empanelled from twenty jurors regularly
drawn to serve in this court, from whom each party may strike
four jurors, or, if either party refuse to so strike, the court shall
strike for him, and the remaining twelve jurors shall be the
said jury of inquest to assess said damages. And the said proceeding shall be in such form as that the United States of
America and the said Thomas 0. Chappell shall be the parties
thereto."
On October 28, 1890, in accordance with this order, a jury
was duly empanelled in the cause, and was sworn "to truly
and impartially value and assess the .damages for the condemnation of the said easement over the land at Hawkins Point,
in said petition mentioned, and a true inquisition make according to the evidence;" and upon a trial before the court, and
after hearing evidence on behalf of the United States, and on
behalf of Chappell, and the charge of the court, returned, on
November 3, 1890, an "inquisition and award," signed and
sealed by the twelve jurors, assessing to Chappell damages in
the sum of $3500 for the enjoyment by the United States in
perpetuity of the easement aforesaid.
On November 10, 1890, Chappell filed a plea "thht the
court here ought not to take cognizance of or sustain the
action aforesaid, because he says that the cause of action
aforesaid, if any accrued to the said plaintiff, accrued to him
at Annapolis, within the jurisdiction of the circuit court for

ORAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Anne Arundel County, State of Maryland, and not within the
jurisdiction of this court."
On November 1'[, 1890, Chappell filed the following exceptions to the inquisition:
"1st. That the statute under which this proceeding is
sought to be maintained is unconstitutional, and- this court
has no jurisdiction of the subject-matter of this suit.
112d. That the law-making power of the United States has
not authorized any officer to make said United States a party
to this suit or proceeding, and this- court has no jtirisdiction
of the subject-matter of this suit, there being a want of power
to condemn this -property described in this inquisition.
"3d. That the laws of the United States have not been
complied with.
"44th. That the damages allowed a re inadequate."
On December 18, 1890, the District Court overruled these
exceptions, and confirmed the inqui.iition and award.
On December 27, 1890, Chappel. prayed for, and on February 24-, 1891, was allowed, under section 633 of the Revised
Statutes, a writ of error from the Circuit Court of the.United
States for the District of Maryland; but never gave bond to.
prosecute that writ of error.
On December 15, 1891, Chappell presented to the District
Judge-a petition for a writ of error, under the act of March
3, 1891; c. 517, § 5,in which he mentions all the previous
proceedings in the case, (above stated,) and, "in order-that
said rulings, judgments and orders may be reviewed and reexamined by the Supreme Court of the United States upon
the question of jurisdiction raised in said exceptions, pleas.
and demurrers, and the other papers on file' in this cause,
and either reversed or affirmed, now prays for the allowance
of a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States
and such other process as may cause said rulings, orders and
judgments to be corrected, instead of to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Marylaud."
A writ of error was thereupon '1allowed," in the usual and
general form, by the District Judge, and was entered in this
court February 27, 1892.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

On December 2, 1895, the day before the case was called
for argument in this court, the plaintiff in error moved for
a writ of certiorari,suggesting a diminution of the record in
omitting to state that on July 15, 1890, he filed in the District Court a petition for the allowance of a writ of error
from the Circuit Court of the United States.
.Mr. Thomas C. Chaptell, plaintiff in error, in person.
The State of Maryland by an act of the General Assembly of Ma'ryland, Acts of 1874, chapter 395, has expressly
given its consent to the condemnation of land .or light-house
purposes, by the United States. Section 10 provides: "Jurisdiction is hereby ceded to the United States over such lands
as shall be condemned, as aforesaid, for their use for public
purposes, as soon as the same shall be condemned, under the
sanction of the General Assembly of this State, hereinbefore
given to said condemnation."
It must be acknowledged that all the powers of the United
States originate in the several States; that the States delegated certain rights and reserved certain rights, and that by
the Tenth Amendmerit, those not delegated are reserved.
One of these rights reserved was the right to prevent the
United States from exercising exclusive jurisdiction in any
places, except in the District of Columbia, and in such places
as the State might consent to being acquired by purchase.
If the State does not see fit to consent, it cannot be compelled to do so; if it sees fit to consent, that jurisdiction shall
be transferred "as soon as the same shall -be condemned," that
is not a consent to such jurisdiction before said condemnation,
and the State cannot be compelled to consent, except on its
own terms.
The mode of procedure prescribed by the law of the State
and the act of Congress itself has not, been followed; a special
jury of inquest has been convened, a statutory jury of inquiry.
In the case of Kohl v., United States, 91 U. S. 367, this court
laid down the rule, that a condemnation proceeding is an action at common law. Being an action at common law, the

CHAPPETJ v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

plaintiff in error is entitled to a trial by a common law jury,
and he has not been afforded that trial. A special jury of
inquest of damages is a body of men in the nature of commissioners, misnamed a jury. They cannot exercise any of the
powers of a common law jury.
The result of this distinction between a special body of
assessors of damages, by whatever name they may be called,
a jury, commissioners or assessors, and a jury at common law
is this, that on appeal from the action of said commissioners
or special jury, the party is entitled to a trial de novo by a
common law jury before the appellate tribunal. Steuart v.
Baltimore, 7 Maryland. 500.,
The result of this reasoning is that the plaintiff in error is
entitled to such a trial before the appellate tribunal, under the
decision of Steuart v. Baltimore,supra, by jury.
According to the rule laid down in Tide Water Canal .0o.
v. Arch, 9 Gill & Johns. 511, the appellate tribunal tries the
case de novo, the laws of the States being the rule of decision
in the courts of the United States, except where repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, this plaintiff in error is
entitled to a trial by jury in this court, of the questions of fact
raised in the record, according to the course of the common
law under the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
This is the result of conferring jurisdiction upon the courts
of the United States in -this proceeding, which is held in Kohl
v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, by this court, to be an action at
common law.
These cases fully establish the principle that where a law
secures a trial by jury upon an appeal, it is no violation of a
constitutional provision for guarding that right, although such
law may provide for a primary trial without the intervention
of a jury. This is upon the ground that the party, if he thinks
proper, can have his case decided by a jury before it is finally
settled. Steuart v. Baltimore, ubi supra.
The modes in which this power is exercised vary a6cording
to circumstances. Sometimes it is initiated by summoning a
jury upon warrant, in the nature of.an inquest ad quod dam.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

num; at others, boards of assessors are appointed to appraise
dues and benefits; with the right of appeal to a court of
record, and of review by a jury. Maryland v. Graves, 19
Maryland, 351.
In Cruger v.Hudson River Railroad,12 N. Y. 190, it was
held that the word "jury" had been used in a number of
statutes to describe a body of men who are in fact commissioners or assessors.
The plaintiff in error being entitled to a trial by a common
law jury, under Article VII of the Constitution of the United
States, has not been afforded that right, because he was not
brought into the lower court according to the course of the
common law.
The case of Tidewater Canal Co.v. Archer,ubi sup., demonstrates that a statutory jury of view is not a common law jury,
and also lays down the rule that the party is entitled to have
a trial before the appellate tribunal by a common law jury,
and to try the case de novo.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants
in error.
MR.

JusTic. GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of'the court.
The motion for a writ of certiorari for diminution of the
record, in not stating that on July 15, 1890, the plaintiff in
error filed a petition for the allowance of a writ of error from
the Circuit Court of the United States to the District Court
in which the proceedings were pending, must be denied, for
several reasons: 1st. The motion was not made at the first
term, as required by Rule 14 of this court, and no satisfactory
cause is shown for the delay. 2d. The copy of 'docket entries,
submitted with the motion, while it shows that a petition for a
writ of error was filed on that day, does not show that a writ of
error was then allowed or sued out; and the plaintiff in error
afterwards obtained the allowance of a writ of error from the
Circuit Court to the District Court, which he abandoned, and-

C A PPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cour.

instead thereof, applied for and obtained the present writ of
error froin'this court. 3d. The order overruling the demurrer
to the petition, and directing a jury to be empanelled, was
not a final judgment upon which a writ of error would lie.
Lu'ton v. Yorth River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337.
The writ of error now before us was sued out from this
court to the District Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, under the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, § 5, which.provides that "appeals or writs of error may
be taken from the District Courts or from the existing Circuit
Coburts direct to the Supreme Court in the following [among
other] cases:"
First. "In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court
is in issue; in such cases, the. question of jurisdiction alone
shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below
for decision.Fifth. "In any case in -which the constitutionality of any
law of the United States" "is drawn in question." 26 Stat.
827, 828.
In order to bring a case within the first class, not only must
it appear of record that a question of jurisdiction was involved
in the decision below, but that question, and that alone, must
be certified to this court.' If. both a question of jurisdiction
and other questions were before the court below, and. a writ of
error is allowed in the usual and general form to review its
judgment, without certifying, or specifying the question of
jurisdiction, this court cannot take jurisdiction under this
clause of' the statute. Afaynard v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324;.
Moran v. Hagerman, 151 U. S.329; Colvin v. Jacksonville,
157 U. S.368; Davis & Rankin Co. v. Barber, 157-U. S.673;
The Bayonne,,159 U. S. 687-; Vran Wagenen v. Sewall, ante, 369.
If, indeed, the writ of error. is allowed upon the petition of
the original, plaintiff, asking for a review of .ajudgment dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction, and the only question tried and decided in the, court' below, was a question of
jurisdiction, that'.question is sufficiently certified to this court.
Lehigh Co., _etitioner, 156 U.. S. 322; Interior' Construction
Co. v. Gurney, ante, 217. , And if an appeal from a decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Circuit Court appointing a receiver is allowed by that
court "solely upon the question of jurisdiction," and on a petition praying an appeal from the decree as "taking and exercising jurisdiction," the question of jurisdiction is sufficiently
certified. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168.
But in the case, just cited, of Shields v. Coleman, the essential requisite of the appellate jurisdiction of this court in this
class of cases was defined as follows: "It is not necessary
that the word 'certify' be formally used. It is sufficient if
there is a plain declaration that the single matter which is by
the record sent up to this court for decision is a question of
jurisdiction, and the precise question clearly, fully and separately stated. No mere suggestion that the jurisdiction of
the court was in issue will answer. This court will not of
itself search, nor follow counsel in their search of the record,
to ascertain whether the judgment of the trial court did or
did not turn on some question of jurisdiction. But the record
must affirmatively show that the trial court sends up for consideration a single definite question of jurisdiction." 157
U. S. 176, 177.
The record in the present case falls far short of satisfying
any such test. The defendant, among many other defences,
and in various forms, objected to the jurisdiction of the District Court, because the act of Congress under which the proceedings were instituted was unconstitutional, because the
proceedings were not according to the laws of the United
States, and because they should have been had in a court of
the State of Maryland ; and the court, overruling or disregarding all the objections, whether to its jurisdiction over the case,
or to the merits or the form of the proceedings, entered final
judgment for the petitioners. There is no formal certificate of
any question of jurisdiction; the allowance of the writ of error
is general, and not expressly limited to such a question; and
the petition for the writ, after mentioning all the proceedings
in detail, asks for a review of all the "rulings, judgments and
orders" of the court "upon the question of jurisdiction raised
in said exceptions, pleas and demurrers, and the other papers
on file in this cause," without defining or indicating any spe-

CHAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cific question of jurisdiction. Here, certainly, is no such clear,
full and separate statement of a definite question of jurisdiction, as will supply the want of a formal certificate under the
first clause of the statute.
But no question of jurisdiction having been separately certified or specified, and the writ of error having been allowed
without restriction or qualification, this court, under the other
clause of the statute, above cited, has appellate jurisdiction of
this case as one in which the constitutionality of a law of the
United States was drawn in question; and, having acquired
jurisdiction under this clause, has- the power to dispose, not
merely of the constitutional question, but of the entire case, including all questions, whether of jurisdiction or of merits.
Nishimiwra Fkiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Eorner v.
United States, 143 U. S. 570, 577; United States v. fahn, 155
U. S. 109, 112, 113.
In support of the position that the act of Congress was unconstitutional, reliance was placed on art. 1, sect. 8, cl. 17, of
the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
Congress shall have exclusive power of legislation "over all
places purchased by the consent -of the legislature of the
State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts,
magazines, arsenals; dock-yards, and other needful buildings;"
and on the statute of Maryland, by which a method is provided
for the condemnation, for the use and benefit of 'the United
States, of lands wanted for the erection of light-houses or
other public buildings, and jurisdiction is ceded to the United
States over such lands " as soon as the same shall be condemned " under this statute. Maryland Stat. 1874, c. 395,
§ 1-13; 2 Public General Laws of 1888, art. 96, §§ 5-17. It
was argued that the act of Congress was unconstitutional,
because it undertook to confer exclusive jurisdiction on the
courts of the United States before purchase or condemnation
of the lands in question.
But in the case at bar the question is not of jurisdiction for.
purposes of legislation, but ,of acquiring title by judicial proceedings. It is now well settled that whenever, in the execution of the powers granted to the United States by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Constitution, lands in any State are needed by the United
States, for a fort, magazine, dock-yard, light-house, customhouse, court-house, post office, or any other public purpose,
and cannot be acquired by agreement with the owners, the
Congress of the United States, exercising the right of eminent
domain, and making just compensation to the owners, may
authorize such lands to be taken, either by .proceedings in the
courts of the State with its consent, or by proceedings in the
courts of the United States, with or without any consent or
concurrent act of the State, as Congress may'direct or permit.
iarrisv. Elliott, 10 Pet. 25; Xohl v. United States, 91 U. S.
367; UnitedStates v. Jones, 109 U. S.513; Fort L-eavenworth

Railroad v. Lowe, 114 U. S.525, 531, 532; Cherokee Hation
v. Kansas Railway, 135 U. S.641, 656; -Monongahela.'Tavigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.312; Luxton v. NAorth
River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337, and 153 U. S. 525; Burt
v. Merchants' I7ns. Co., 106 Mass. 356; United States, petitioners, 96 N.Y. 227.

Nor is it necessary that Congress should itself select the
particular land to be taken. In -Yohl v. United States, above
cited, it was decided that an act of Congress, authorizing the
Secretary of the Treasury to acquire by purchase at private
sale, or by condemnation, a site in the city of Cincinnati,
"for the accomniodation of the United States courts, customhouse, United States depository, post office, internal revenue
and pension offices," was constitutional; and authorized the
proceedings for condemnation to be had in the name of the
United States in the Circuit Court of the United States under
its general jurisdiction of actions at law in which the United
States, or any officer thereof suing under the authority of an
act of Congress, were plaintiffs.
By the Revised Statutes of the United States, the Lighthouse Board, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury, is entrusted with the discharge of all administrativ6
duties relating to the construction, illumination, inspection and
superintendence of light-houses, light-vessels, beacons, buoys,
sea-marlk, and their appendages; and is authorized to purchase for the purpose, within appropriations made by Con-

CHAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion 6f the Court.

gress, land which does not belong to the United States. Rev.
Stat. §§ 4658, 4660. And the act of August 1, 1888, c. 728,
under which this proceeding was instituted, authorizes the
Secretary of the Treasury, whenever in his opinion it is
-necessary or advantageous to the United States, to acquire
land for the purpose of a light-house by condemnation under
judicial process in a court of the United States in the district
in which the land is situated. 25 Stat. 357. This act is a
constitutional exercise of the power of Congress, according
to the decisions of 'this court, above cited.
The statute of Maryland, above cited, provides that whenever the United States are desirous of procuring the title to.
any land within the State, "for the purpose of erecting thereon
any light-house, beacon-light, range-light, light-keeper's dwelling, forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, buoys, public piers,
or necessary public buildings, or improvements connected therewith," and, cannot obtain the same by purchasei the United
States, by any agent authorized under the hand and seal of
any member of the President's Cabinet,. may, by petition to
the circuit court for the county where the land lies, have the
land condemned for the use and benefit of the United States.
That statute further provides that the petition shall state
the bounds and quantity of the land, the purpose for which
the United States desire to obtain title, and the names of the
owners, and shall be verified .by an-affidavit of the agent of
the United States; that, after notice to the owner, the court
shall hear and determine upon the petition and any objections
filed to the proposed condennation, and, if it shall declare
that the condemnation ought to be had, shall issue a warrant
to the sheriff to summon -twentyjurors, "and from them each
party or his agent, or, if either be not present in-person or by
his agent, the sheriff for said party, may strike four jurors, and
the remaining jurors shall act as the jury of inquest of damages;" that the sheriff, before the jury proceed to act, shall
"admini9ter to each of them an oath that he will justly and
impartially value the damages which the owner will sustain
by the use or permanehit occupation 6ol the land required by
the United States;" that "the jury shall summon such wit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nesses as the parties may require," and examine them on oath
in relation to the value of the land, and reduce the testimony
to writing, and ascertain and determine the compensation
which ought to be made by the United States to the party
owning or being interested in the land to be condemned;
and that the jury shall reduce their inquisition to writing,
and sign and seal it, and it shall then be returned by the
sheriff, together with the testimony, to the clerk of the circuit court for the county; that the inquisition shall be confirmed by the court, if no sufficient cause be shown by the
fourth day of the ensuing term, and, when confirmed, shall
be recorded; that, if the inquisition be set aside, the court
may direct anothe inquisition in the manner before prescribed; that the inquisition shall describe the land condemned, and state the valuation thereof; and that such
valuation, when paid or tendered to the owner, shall entitle
the United States to the land, for the use and purposes set
forth in the petition.
The only position, other than the denial of the constitutionality of the act of Congress, argued by the plaintiff in error
in this court, was that by the statutes and decisions of Maryland the jury which returned the inquisition was but a body
of assessors of damages, in the nature of a special jury of
inquest, or board of commissioners, and that he was entitled
to have the whole case tried anew by an ordinary jury. In
support of this position were cited the following cases, decided
under different statutes of Maryland: Tide Water Canal Co.
v. Archer, 9 Gill & Johns. 479; Steuart v. Baltimore, 7 Maryland, 500; State v. Graves, 19 Maryland, 351. But, however
that may be under the statutes of the State, it is not so under
the act of Congress.
The direction, in the act of Congress, that the practice,
pleadings, forms and hiodes of proceeding, in cases arising
under it, "shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice,
pleadings, forms and proceedings existing at the time in like
causes in the courts of record of the State," must, as was said
by this court in an analogous case, following the decisions
under the corresponding provision of section 914 of the Re-

PHAPPELL v. UNITED STATES.

513

Opinion of the Court.

vised Statutes, "give way, whenever to adopt the state practice would-be inconsistent with the terms, defeat the purpose,
or impair the effect, of any legislation of Congress." Luxton
v. Norta Rivet' Bridge Co., 147 U. S.337, 338.
This proceeding for the condemnation of an interest in
land, for the use and benefit of the United States for lighthouse purposes, was instituted in.the District Court of the
United States by the Secretary of the Treasury, acting through
the Attorney General of the United States, as authorized by
the act of Congress. Having been commenced in the name
of the Secretary of the Treasury, it was rightly ordered to be
amended so as to make the 'United States the formal, as they.
were the real petitioners. Zohl v. United States, 91 U. S.
367; -UnitedStates v. Jan, 155 U: S. 109, 111; United States
v. o17pewell, 5 U. S. App. 137. The proceeding was conducted
in substantial accordance with the provisions of the statute of
Maryland upon the same subject, except so far as controlled
by the act of Congress under which it was instituted, or by
other laws of the United States.
The provision of the Maryland statute, that a petition in
the county court shall be verified by affidavit of the agent of
the United States, is inapplicable to a petition presented to a
court of the United States by the officer designated in the act
of Congress. And the provision requiring a sheriff's jury to
reduce to writing, and to return to the clerk of the court, the
testimony taken before them, has no application to a trial had
and evidence taken before the court itself.
The proceeding, instituted and concluded in a court of the
United States, was, in substance and effect, an action at law.
.fohl v. United States, 91 U. S.367, 376; U'pshur 'County v.
1?ich, 135 U. S.467, 476. The general rule, as expressed in
the Revised Statutes of the United States, is that the trial
of issues of fact in actions at law, both in the District Court
and in the Circuit Court, "shall be by jury," by which is evidently meant a trial by an ordinary jury at the bar of the
court. Rev. Stat. § 566, 648. - Congress has not itself provided any peculiar moce of, trial in proceedings for the condamnation of lands -for public uses' The direction in the act
VOL. CLX--8

