MARKHAIM v. -UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

permitting the plaintiff to prove that it had expended between
seven and eight thousand dollars in working the mines, from
the time it took possession until it was ousted therefrom by
the defendant Haws. This testimony was offered to show
good faith in working the property by the plaintiff company.
We think it was competent, in view of the requirements of
'Rev. Stat. sec. 2321, "that on each claim located after May
10, 1872, and until a patent has been issued therefor, no less
than one hundred dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or
improvements made during each year."
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTI,

GRAY was not present at the argument and

took no part in the decision of this case.

MARKHAM v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 544. Submitted November 18, 1895.-Decided December 16, 1895.

An indictment for perjury in a deposition made before a special examiner
of the pension bureau which charges the oath to have been wilfully and
corruptly taken before a named special examiner of the Pension Bureau
of the United States, then and there a competent officer, and having lawful authority to administer said oath, is sufficient to inform the accused
of the official character and authority of the officer before whom the oath.
was taken.
In such an indictment it is not necessary to set forth all the details or facts
involved in the issue as to the materiality of the statement, and as to the
authority of the Commissioner of Pensions to Institute the inquiry in
which the deposition of the accused was taken.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 1025 that "no indictment found and presented
by a grand jury in any district or circuit or other court of the United
States shall be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or other
proceeding thereon be affected by'reason of any defect or imperfection
,in matter of form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the defendant," is not to be interpreted as dispensing with the requirement in
§ 5396 that an indictment for perjury must set forth the substance of the
offence charged.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
An indictment for perjury that does not set forth the substance of the
offence will not authorize judgment upon verdict of guilty. Dunbarv.
United States, 156 U: S. 185, affirmed.

THE

plaintiff in error was indicted in the District Court

of the United States for the District of Kentucky, for the
crime of perjury as defined in section 5392 of the Revised
Statutes.
The defendant pleaded not guilty. The first and second
counts related to certain statements by the accused, alleged to
have been wilfully, falsely, and feloniously made, in a deposition, given, under oath, before G. C. Loomis, a special examiner
of the Pension Bureau of the United States, such statements
being material to an inquiry pending before the Commissioner
of Pensions in reference to a claim of the accused for a pension
from the United States. The third count set out another
statement of the accused in the same deposition, and charged
that he did not believe it to be true.
The defendant was found guilty upon the fourth count of
the indictment, which was as follows:
"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid,
do further present that at Bowling Green, in the district aforesaid, on the seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, the matter of the hereinaftermentioned deposition became and was material to an inquiry
then pending before and within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Pensions of the United States, at Washington,
in the District of Columbia; whereupon said William H.
Markham did then, at said Bowling Green, wilfully and corruptly take a solemn oath before G. C. Loomis, then and
there a special examiner of the Pension Bureau of the United
States, and then and there a competent officer and having
lawful authority to administer said oath, that a certain written deposition then and there by said Markham subscribed
was then and there true, and in giving said deposition said
Markham was asked by said Loomis a question in substance and effect as follows, to wit, 'Have you received
any injury to forefinger of right hand since the war or since
your discharge from the army?' (by which said question said

LtARKRAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Loomis referred and said Markham well understood said Loomis
to refer to the right hand of said Markham,) and in answer
to said question said Markham then and there made and subscribed an answer and statement in substance and effect as
follows, to wit, I No, sir; I never have; ' which said statement
that said Markham never had received any injury to. the forefinger of his right hand since his, said Markham's, discharge
from the army was then and there material to said inquiry,
and was then and there not true. Whereas in truth and in
fact the said Markham had then and theretofore received an
injury to the forefinger of his, said Markham's, right hand, as
he, the said Markham, then and there very well knew. And
so the jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid say that said
Markham did commit wilful and corrupt perjury in the manner and form as in this count aforesaid, against," etc. There
was no demurrer to the indictment, nor any motion to quash
either of the counts.
The defendant moved for an arrest of judgment upon the
following grounds: 1st. That the count upon which he was
found guilty charged no offence under the statute. 2d. That
its averments did not inform the court that any offence, had
been committed, nor show that Loomis, the examiner, was
authorized to administer the oath .alleged. 3d.. That the
avermeoits did not set forth the pvoceeding or cause in which
the defendant was charged to have given his deposition ormade oath to the statement alleged, to be false', in such manner as to sho'O that the deposition and the .alleged false statement were material to any inquiry or matter before the
Commissioner of Pensions, nor to what said inquiry related,
nor show that Loomis, special examiner,, had any lawful
authority to. swear or require the defendant to swear to the
deposition or statement averred to be false, nor for what purpose, nor upon what cause, or investigation of what claim; or
of any claim pending before any Department of the Government or in any court. 4th. That it did not aver facts sufficient
to show the materiality of the oath or statement alleged to
have been made. 5th. That the words charged to have been
sworn to by defendant were not averred to have been sworn
voL. cLx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to wilfully and corruptly. 6th. That it failed to aver what
charge was under investigation.
The motion in arrest of judgment was overruled, and the
accused was sentenced to make his fine to the United States
by the payment of $5, and to be imprisoned at hard labor in
the Indiana state prison, south, at Jeffersonville, Indiana, for
the full period of two years from a day named. From that
judgment the present writ of error was prosecuted.
Mr. Samuel McKee for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General W~Titney for defendants in
error.
MR.JusTicE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
The contention that the indictment was insufficient in law
cannot be sustained.
By section 4144 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the
act of July 25, 1882, c. 349, it is provided: "The Commissioner of Pensions is authorized to detail from time to time
clerks or persons employed in his office to make special examinations into the merits of such pension or bounty land claims,
whether pending or adjudicated, as he may deem proper, and
to aid in the prosecution of any party appearing on such examinations to be guilty of fraud, either in the presentation
or in procuring the allowance of such claims; and any person so detailed shall have power to administer oaths and
take affidavits and depositions in the course of such examinations, and to orally examine witnesses, and may employ
a stenographer, when deemed necessary by the Commissioner of, Pensions, in important cases, such stenographer to
be paid by sueh clerk or person, and the amount so paid to be
allowed in his accounts." Rev. Stat. § 4744; 22 Stat. 174,
175. And by section 3 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 548, it
was provided: "That the same power to administer oaths and
take affidavits, which by virtue of section forty-seven hundred

I MARKHAM v. UNITED ST.TES.
Opinion of the CourtV

and forty-four of the Revised Statutes is conferred upon clerks
detailed by the Commissioner of Pensions from his office to
investigate suspected attempts 't fraud on the Government
through and by virtue of the pension laws, and to aid in prosecuting any person so offending, shall be, and is hereby, extended to all special examiners or additional special examiners
employed under authority of Congress to aid in the same purpose." 26 Stat. 1083.
In view of these enactments, the averment that the oath,
charged to have been wilfully and corruptly taken, was taken
"before G. C. Loomis, then and there a special examiner of
the Pension Bureau of the United States, and then and there
a competent officer, and having lawful authority to administer
said oath," was sufficient in connection with the statute, to
inform the accused of the official character and authority of
the officer before whom the oath was taken.
It is provided by section 5392 of the RevisedStatutes that
"every person who, having taken an oath before a competent
tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the
United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he
will testify, declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written testimony, declaration, deposition, or other certificate by
him subscribed is true, wilfully and contrary to such oath
states or subscribes any material matter which he does not
believe to be true, is guilty of perjury, and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than two thousand dollars, and by imprisonment, at hard labor not more than five years, and shall,
moreover, thereafter be incapabler of giving testimony in any
court of the United States until such time as the judgment
against him is reversed."
. And by section 5396 it is declared that "in every presentment or indictment prosecuted against any person for perjury,
it shall be sufficient to set forth the substance of the offence
charged upon the defendant, and by what court, and before
whom the oath was taken, averring such court or person to
have competent authority to administer the same, together
with the proper averment to falsify the, matter wherein the
perjury is assigned, without setting forth the bill answer,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

information, indictment, declaration, or any part of any record
or proceeding, either in law or equity, or any affidavit, deposition, or certificate, other than as hereinbefore stated, and
without setting forth the commission or authority of the court
or person before whom the perjury was committed."
The requirement that it shall be sufficient in an indictment
for perjury to set forth the substance of the offence is not new
'in the statutes of the United States. It is so provided in the
Crimes Act of April 30, 1790, 1 Stat. 112, 116, c. 9, § 18, and
the latter act, in the particular mentioned, was the same as that
of 23 Geo. II, c. 11. Referring to the English statute, and to
the objects for which it was enacted, Mr. Chitty.says that the
substance of the charge is intended in opposition to its details.
2 Cr. Law, 307; Zing v. Dowlin, 5 T. R. 311, 317.
Did the fourth count set forth the substance of the offence
charged? It gave the name of the officer before whom the
alleged false oath was taken; averred that he was competent
to administer an oath; set forth the very words of the statement alleged to have been wilfully and corruptly made by the
accused; and charged that such false statement was part of
a deposition given and subscribed by the accused before that
officer, and was material to an inquiry then pending before,
and within the jurisdiction of, the Commissioner of Pensions
of the United States.
The question propounded to the accused, and to which he
was alleged wilfully and corruptly to have made a false answer, manifestly pointed to an inquiry pending before the
Commissioner of Pensions, in relation to himself as a former
soldier in the army; that inquiry presumably related to a
claim by him for a pension on account of personal injuries
received by him in the service; and the general charge that
the statement was made with reference to a pending inquiry
before, and within the jurisdiction of, the Commissioner of
Pensions, in connection with the distinct, though general,
averment that such statement was material to that inquiry,
was quite sufficient under the statute Under the plea of not
guilty the Government was required to show the materiality
of the alleged false statement, and, in so doing, must neces-

MARRITA

,v.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

sarily have disclosed the precise nature of the inquiry to which
it related. And it may well be assumed, after verdict, that
all such facts appeared in evidence, and that the accused was
not ignorant of the nature of the inquiry to which his deposition related and to which the indictment referred.
It was not necessary that the indictment. should set forth all
the details or facts involved in the issue as to the materiality of
such statement, and the authority of the Commissioner of
Pensions to institute the inquiry in which the deposition of the
accused was taken. In 2 Ohitty's Criminal Law, 307, the author
says: "It is undoubtedly necessary that it should appear on
the face of the indictment that the false allegations were material to the matter in issue. But it is not requisite to set forth
all the circumstances which render them material; the simple
averment that they were so, will suffice." In Hing v. Dowlin,
above cited, Lord Kenyon said that it had always been. adjudged to be sufficient in an indictment for perjury, to allege
generally that the particular question became a material
question. So, in Commonwealth v. Pollard,12 Met. 225, 229,
which was a prosecution for perjury, it was said that it must
be alleged in the indictment that the matter sworn to was
materiali or the facts set forth as falsely and corruptly sworn
to should be sufficient in themselves to show such materiality.
In State v. Hayward, 1 Nott & McCord, 546, 553, which was
also a prosecution for perjur r, the court, after observing that it
should appear, on the face of the indictment, that the false
allegations were materialto the matter in issue, adjudged that
it was not necessary "to set forth all the circumstances which
render them material; the simile averment that they became
and were so will be sufficient." ' Many other authorities are to
the effect that the substance of the offence may be set forth
without encumbering the indictment with a recital of its
details and bircumstances.
As the count in question set forth the words of the alleged
false statement and thereby made it impossible for the accused
to be again prosecuted on account of that particular statement;
as it charged that such statement was material to an inquiry
pending before, and within the jurisdiction of, the Commissioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of Pensions; and as the fair import of that count was that the
inquiry before the Commissioner had reference to a claim
made by the accused under the pension laws, on account of
personal injuries received while he was a soldier, and made it
necessary to ascertain whether the accused had, since the war
or after his discharge from the army, received an injury to the
forefinger of his right hand, we think that the fourth count,
although unskilfully drawn, sufficiently informed the accused
of the matter for which he was indicted, and, therefore, met
the requirement that it should set forth the substance of the
chafge against him.
It is proper to add that § 1025 of the Revised Statutes, providing that "no indictment found and presented by a grand
jury in any district or circuit or other court of the United
States shall be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or other proceeding thereon be affected by reason of
any defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which shall
not tend to the prejudice of the defendant," is not to be interpreted as dispensing with the requirement in § 5396 that an
indictment for perjury must set forth the substance of the
offence charged. An indictment for perjury that does not set
forth the substance of the offence will not authorize judgment
upon a verdict of guilty. -Dunbarv. United States, 156 U. S.
185, 192.
We perceive no error of law in the record, and the judgment
is
.rmed.

