BAMERGER v. SCHOOLFIELD.
Syllabus.

to the quantity of desert lands that any person or association
of persons might appropriate. We cannot assent to this view.
The words "section" and "provision" frequently occur in the
act of 1891, and there is no reason to suppose that Congress,
when using the words "but this section shall not apply to
entries made or initiated prior to the approval of this act,"
intended that only one provision or clause of that section
should apply to such entries.
We are of opinion that cases initiated under the original
act of 1877, but not completed, by final proof, until after the
passage of the act of 1891, were left by the latter act -at
least as to the price to be paid for the lands entered - to be
governed by the law in force at the time the entry was made.
So far as the price of the public lands was concerned, the act
of 1891 did not change, but expressly declined to change, the
terms and conditions that were applicable to entries made
before its passage. Such terms and conditions were expressly
preserved in respect of all entries initiated before the passage
of that act.
[24judgment of e CoUrt of Claims is reversed, with direction8 to dismiss the claimanet8s etitidn.

BAMBERGER v. SCHOOLFIELD
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

N ORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Wo. 48. Submitted April 11, 1895.- Decided December 9,1895.

It was not the province of the court to instruct the jury in this case to
render a verdict in the plaintiffs' favor, and had it done so it would have
usurped the province of the jury, by determining the proper inference to
be drawn from the evidence, and by deciding on which side lay the preponderance of proof;
As the controversy below in this case was what is known in the jurisprudence of Alabama as a statutory claim suit, growing out of attachment
proceedings, the law of Alabama, as interpreted by the Supreme dourt
of that State in its'rulings, will be followed here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
Under the law of Alabama a debtor has the right to prefer a creditor, either
by paying his debt in money, or by paying it by a sale and transfer of
property to the debtor; and if such sale and transfer are real, and are
made in good faith, for a fair price, if they are honestly executed to
extinguish the debt and do extinguish it, and contain no reservation of
an interest or benefit in favor of the vendor, they are valid, and pass the
property to the vendee, even if it further appears that the vendor was
insolvent at the time, that the vendee knew that fact, and that, in making the sale the vendor had. a fraudulent intent to defraud his other
creditors by the preference, and the remaining creditors would, in consequence of the sale,'be unable to obtain the payment of their debts.
In such case if the fact of indebtedness, and the fact that the goods were
sold in payment thereof 'at their reasonable fair value are established to
the satisfaction of the jury, and if it be contended, in avoidance thereof,
that the trade was simulated, and that there was a.secret trust or benefit
reserved to the debtor, the burden is on the contesting creditor to establish it.
The employment of such a vendor by the vendee In a clerical capacity, and
the subsequent transfer of the property by the vendee to the wife of the
vendor, though circumstances which may be considered by the jury in
determining the validity of the sale and transfer, do not of themselves
render them illegal in law.
When a request for instructions presents a suppositions case, for the establishment of which there is no proof of any kind in the case, it should be
refused.
The second section of the fourteenth article of the Constitution of Alabama,
and the act of the legislature of that State 6f February 28, 1887, have
been held by the courts of Alabama as not intended to interfere with
matters of commerce between the States, and to have no application to
transactions such as here under consideration.
There was no error in the instructions as to the bearing on the rights of the
parties of the letter written by the Memphis firm and the settlement
made by the latter after it.

Tan controversy below was what is known in the jurisprudence of Alabama as a statutory claim suit, and grew out
of an attachment proceeding instituted by plaintiffs in error
against one Henry Warten. Under the writ, a levy was made
on certain merchandise, treated as belonging to Warten. The
defendants in error intervened and claimed the things seized,
and thereby an issue was formed as to whether they were
owned by the defendant in attachment or were the, property
of the claimants. The undisputed facts are as follows: Henry
Warten embarked in trade at Athens, Alabama, in 1881; his

business consisted of a general country merchandise store, of

BAMBERGER v. S0HOOLFIEUD.

151

"

Statement of.the Case.

advancingto farmers money or provisions wherewith to cultivate and market a crop of cotton, of buying and selling cotton
on his own account and as agent for others. Almost at the opening of his career at Athens', Warten began a course of dealings
with the commercial firm of Schoolfield, Hanauer & Co. of
Memphis, Tenn. (whom we designat6 hereafter- as-the Memphis
firm); they became his general factors,' s~lling. him merchandise, loaning him money,-cashing his sight drafts, given to others
in payment of merchandise bought by him or for debts due,
he consigning them cotton for sale, the proceeds, passing to
the credit of his account. This course of dealing continued
until April, 1889, when the Memphis firm' went into liquidation. There was then'formed, under the-laws of Tennessee, a
corporation styled the Schoolfield Hanauer Company, designated hereafter as the Memphis company, with whom Warten
carried on business of the same general nature as that previously conducted with the firm.
The cotton crop, of 1889, in the region of country where
Warten dealt, was a disastrous failure, and in consequence of
this fact, by the month of December of that year, Warten had
a large amount of outstanding debts due. him by unsecured
accounts, which were either permanently lost or were unavailable as quick realizable assets. At this time he owed a large
amount of money for iaerchandize and for- money borrowed
during the course of his business. This condition of things
produced disorder in his affairs and a state of actual, if not hltimate, insolvency. By the 20th of December, 1889, Warten
owed the Memphis firm abconsiderable debt, evidenced by four
notes, three of 'Which were dated May 22, 1889, two for $5000
each were past due, oxle for $3794 - was to become da, on
January 1, 1890, the other for $2500 was dated Jufie 10, 1890
and had also matured.
The last-mentioned note (dated'June , 10, 1890) had been
made by Warten to th6 order of the Memphis house, was
by it endorsed, and had'been discounted-by the Memphis company;-who put the proceeds to the credit of Warten, he thereaftei' drawing against 'the credit to the- full extent thereof.
Wairten at that time also owed the'firm of Bamberger, Bloom

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

& Company, of Louisville, hereafter called the Louisville firm,
a past-due note, amounting to $4719.36 and an open account,
both together making the total of his indebtedness to that firm
between six thousand five hundred and seven thousand dollars.
The embarrassed condition of Warten's affairs was known to
the Memphis and the Louisville. firms. Late in December,
after conferring with his creditors in Memphis, Warten went
to Louisville for the purpose of asking an extension from the
Louisville firm, and delivered to them the following letter:
" MEMIS, TENN., Deemer 27, 1889.
"MESSRS.

BAMBERGER, BLOOM & COMPA ',

" Zoisville, Zy.

"DEAR Sins : Our mutual friend and customer, Mr. Henry
Warten, through, we believe, no fault of his own, but owing to
disastrous failure of crops in his own section, finds himself
forced to ask for extension of his particular friends, and he
recognizes you among that number and from whom he can
ask that favor. Having confidence in his honor and integrity
and business qualifications, we have agreed to give him extension, provided you will do so. He informs us that one of his
creditors has agreed to give him extension and he will only
ask it of three houses, viz., yourselves, ourselves, and the party
who has agreed to.
"Yours very truly,
"THE SCHOOLFIELD IIANAUER

Co."

After arriving at Louisville, Warten telegraphed the Memphis company that the Louisville firm refused the extension
unless he paid three thousand dollars in cash, and the company
replied that they could not give him the money. A settlement was made on the 30th of December between Warten
and the Louisville firm, by which the outstanding pastdue
note was taken up, and Warten furnished an acceptance due
on the 15th of January for one- thousand dollars, and four
other acceptances for five hundred dollars each, maturing on
the first and fifteenth of February and first -and fifteenth of
March following, and the balance of the debt, except an item

BAMBERGER v. SCHOOLFIELD.
Statement of the Case.

of about two hundred dollars, was.settled by acceptances maturing the following November and December. At the time,
of making this settlement or thereafter (up. to 'the 13th of January) the Louisville firm made no reply to the letter from the
Memphis firm. From January 1 the embarrassment of Warten became rapidly more flagrant, in consequence of the results of the crop disaster becoming absolutely assure ., On the
13th of January, 1890, at about six o'clock in the morning,
Warten sold to the Memphis firm his stock of goods, safe, and
store fixtures at Athens, with also a small stock and' store fixtures owned by him at Elkmont, and, certain accounts, a lot
of mules, and an interest in real estate,, for the price of$17,032.40, this being the amount of the principal and interest
of the notes held by the firm, which have been already mentioned. The sale was accepted in full acquittance and discharge of the debt. A member of the firm, who had come
from Memphis, took possession of the property. On the same
day Warten sold to. the Memphis company certain assets in
full payment of an open account due by him, and other transfers of assets in payment of other debts, to various creditors,
were also made at or about that time. j On. the same day as
the sale to the Memphis firm, (13th of January, 1890,) between
eleven and twelve o'clock, Warten made a general assignment of all but his exempt property in. favor of his general
'creditors; the assets covered by this assignment being open
accounts due him, and the remaining ,avails of his business,
amounting to the face value of about $50,000, the ,claim of the
creditors, in whose favor this assignment was made, including
that of the Louisville firm, aggregating about fifteen thousand
dollars. Of the accounts assigned,,about thirty thousand dollars were debts due Warten for business of the current crop
year.
A few days after this sale the Louisville firm attached the
stock of goods in the Athens store as being yet the property
of Warten. The Memphis firm claimed the property seized
and bonded it, thus raising the issue.to which we have in the
outset referred. After the sale by Warten to the Memphis
firm, he acted as'an employ6 in the store, generally assisting

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in the conduct of the business, continuing to do so until the
10th of June, 1890, when what remained of the stock and
some other of the property which had been sold to the
Memphis firm was resold to the wife of Warten. Although
there is no dispute as to the foregoing. facts, on every other
question of fact there is conflict. The claimants' evidence
tended to show that the sale by Warten to them was real,
was made for a just price, and that it absolutely extinguished
their debt, and that no benefit or expected benefit was expressly or impliedly reserved to the seller; that actual delivery
was made of the property sold, and that they were in possession as owners at the time of the attachment; that the employment of Warten was simply in a clerical capacity and
was rendered advisable from his knowledge of the business
and consequent ability to assist the vendors in converting the
stock and assets into cash. On the other hand, the evidence
of the attaching creditor (the Louisville firm) tended to show
by a mass of circumstances that the sale was intended to and
did reserve a benefit to Warten; that his presence in the store
after the sale, while ostensibly in the capacity of an employ6,
was really in that of an owner or of one having an expectancy
of ownership. As to the facts connected with the settlement
made by the Memphis firm, there was also much conflict in
the evidence, Warten swearing that when he presented the
letter from the Louisville firm the extension to the next crop
year asked by him was refused, unless he paid three thousand
dollars cash, and that it was in consequence of this demand
that he telegraphed the Memphis company that the Louisville
firm refused the extension and asked three thousand dollars;
that when he could not procure the amount of the cash payment demanded, then the settlement was effected, the short
term acceptances for three thousand dollars having been given
by him as an equivalent of the cash demanded, the remainder
of the debt, except a small sum, having been extended to the
next crop season. On the other hand1, the testimony o a
member of the Louisville house was that no demand of cash
was made and that the extension asked by Warten was granted,
without objection, and was evidenced by the acceptances.

BAMBERGER v. SOROOIJFIEID.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

There was a verdict for the claimants, (the Memphis firm,)
and the seizing creditor (the Louisville firm) prosecutes this
writ of error, on which he assigns thirty-six errors, twelve of
which are predicated on erroneous rulings asserted to have been
made in admitting or rejecting testimony, and the others are
directed to the charge of the court to the jury. Only a fragment of the general charge is in the record. Each party, however, presented a series of requests stating the propositions of
law whibh they respectively deemed applicable to the facts,
and all the errors assigned growing out of the charge of the
court-involve the correctness of the court's action in having
substantially given the special charges asked by the claimants
(the Memphis firm) and rejecting those presented by the attaching creditor (the Louisville firm).
Mr. Milton Humes for plaintiffs in error.
It is the province of the court, either before or after the
verdict, to decide whether the plaintiff' has given evidence sufficient to support or justify a verdict in his favor. Not whether,
on all the evidence, the preponderating weight is in his favor
-

that is the business of the jury - but, conceding to all the evi-

dence offered the greatest probative force whieh according to the
law of evidence it is fairly entitled to, is it sufficient to justify a
verdict? If it does not, then it is the duty of the court after a
verdict to set it aside and grant a new trial. Must the court go
through the idle ceremony in such a case of submitting to the
jury the testimony on which the plaintiff relies, when it is clear
to the judicial mind that if the jury sh6hld find a verdict in
favor of plaintiff that verdict would be set aside, and a new trial
had? Such a proposition is absurd, and accordingly we hold
the true principle to be, that if the court is satisfied that,
conceding all the inferences which the jury could justifiably
draw from the testimony, the evidence is insufficient to warrant
a verdict for the plaintiff, the court should say so to the jury.
This is the rule of practice, as we understand, prescribed by
this court for the trial court in all cases, and the principle
is especially applicable to the case of the plaintiff and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

defendant. When a creditor shows facts that raise, a strong
presumption of fraud in a conveyance made by his debtor, the
history of which is necessarily known to the debtor only, the
burden of proof lies on him to explain it, his estate being
involved. Clements v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299.
It is proved without conflict and it is conceded that the
debt of the plaintiffs was contracted prior to the transfer we
are assailing. This fact appearing, the onus of proving that
the transfer was not merely voluntary but founded on an
adequate and valuable consideration is, consequently, by law
cast on the claimants. Whatever may have been the motives
of the parties in its execution as to creditors whose rights were
existing, these deeds and transfers must be regarded as merely
-voluntary, and they must be presumed to be fraudulent until
the contrary is shown. Hlubbard v. Allen, 59 Alabama,
283.
Judges are nd longer required to submif a cas e to the jury
merely because some evidence has been introduced by the
party having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of
such a character that would warrant the jury to proceed in
finding a verdict in favor of the party introducing such
evidence. Commissioners of -Marion County v. OZark, 94
U. S. 278.
On the trial of a statutory claim suit, and that is what this
suit is, the plaintiff must first make out a p2nima facie case
of liability to his execution or attachment; and when he has
done this, the onus is devolved on the claimant to establish a
valid title in himself as against the plaintiff. Poster v. Goodwin, 82 Alabama, 384.
When- transactions such as the one at bar are assailed as
fraudulent the material inquiries are directed to the existence
and validity of the debts, the sufficiency of the consideration
and the reservation of a benefit to the debtor. In a case uch
as the present the burden of proving the existence of these
essentials is cast upon the claimant. foore v. Penn, 95
Alabama, 200.; Hodges v. Coleman, 76 Alabama, 103.
In the race of diligence the creditor who seeks to become
preferred, must do no more than, by fair methods, obtain

BAMBERGER v. SCHOOIFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

payment of his own claim. If he go further and secure a
benefit to the failing debtor, this taints the whole transaction.'
Seamen v. .N'olen, 68 Alabama, 463; Levy v. WTifliams, 79
Alabama, 171.
If by the transaction the failing debtor secured to himself 6,
paying employment which but.for the sale he would not have
had, this was a benefit resekved, which renders the transaction
fraudulent. Luklins.v. Aird,. 6 Wall. 18 ; Harmon v. .Moae,
91 Alabama, 401 ; Page v. Francis,97 Alabama, 319.; Stepkens
v. Regenstein, 89 Alabama, 561.
If the court should disagree with us in the foregoing portion
of our argument, and conclude that the testimony should have
been submitted to the jury, then we say that the. sufficiency of
the circumstantial evidence was not properly presented to the
jury, but, on the contrary, the manifest tendency of -many of
the special charges asked by claimants and given, was to create
the impression upon the jury that evidence of a more positive
and direct character was required.- This was erroneous.
Y.r: F. P. *Postonand M'r. Lawrence (ooyer for defendants
in error.
M . JusTiCE WiTE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the discussion at bar the plaintiff in error has devoted
much of the argument to demonstrate that the trial court eired
in declining a request by him made to instruct the jury to
render a verdict in his favbr, if they believed the testimony, but
this request was manifestly rightly refused. It involved a
finding by the court as to weight of evidence and practically
asked it to usurp the province of the jury, by determining the
.proper inference to be drawn.from the evidence and deciding on
which side lay the preponderance of proof. In so far as this
request asked the court to instruct that under any hypothesis
of fact, as a matter of law., the' attaching creditor was entitled
to a verdict, it can be more properly considered in reviewing
the exceptions taken to the instructions given at the request of

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the oner and the consequent refusal- to give the converse
propositions asked by. th@ other party. It would lead only to
confusion and repetition to follow the various assignments of
error and review them separately. They group themselves
under six headings: First, assertion of error in the charges
given as to the legal effect of the sale to the Memphis firm;
second, error in the instructions as to the general assignment;
third, error as to the ruling with reference to the burden of
proof to establish fraud; fourth, error in the charge as to the
effect of the employment of Warten after the sale and the resale
to Mrs. Warten ; fifth, error as to the effect of having included
in the debt for which the sale was made the note dated June
10 for $2500; and, sixth, error as to the bearing on the rights of
the parties, of the letter written by the Memphis firm to the
Louisville firm, and the settlement had by the latter with
Warten -after the letter was received. The consideration of
the controversies under these various headings will embrace
all the errors assigned, and will dispose of every question in
the'case, except the twelve errors asserted to have been committed in the admission or rejection of testimony.

First. The validity of the sale to the Xemphis frm.
The court charged that, under the law of Alabama, a
debtor had the right to prefer a creditor, and that, if the
sale was real and was made in good faith for a fair price was honestly executed to extinguish the debt, and lid extinguish it, and contained no reservation of any interest or
benefit in favor of the vendor - it was valid and passed the
property to the vendee; that the sale, if it possessed these
enumerated qualities, would be legal, although any of the
following facts might be found by the jury to have existed:
(a) that the vendor was insolvent to the knowledge of the
vendee; (b) even although there was a fraudulent intent on
the part of the vendor to defeat his other creditors, because,
if the sale possessed the attributes necessary to make it valid,
as the law permitted the preference under the conditions
stated, the mere intention of the vendor to defraud his other
creditors by giving a preference to one would not render
the sale .invalid; and (c) although its known effect and

BAMBERGER v. SCHOOLFIELD.
Opinion of .the Court.

necessary consequence was that the -remaining creditors of
the vendor would be unable to obtain the payment of their
debts.
The. correctness of these instructions depends necessdrily
upon the law of *Alabama as interpreted and construed by
the Supreme Court of that State, whose rulings in this regard will be followed here. UnionNational Bank v. Bank
of*Kamas City, 136 U. S. 233; Peters v. Bain, 133 U. S. 670.
It was in consonance with this rule that in a given case we
enforced the law of the State, of Illinois, White v. Cotzhaen,
129 U. S. 329, and in another that of the State of Iowa.
Etheridge v. Sjperry, 139 U. S. 267. The instructions given
as above recited were in direct accord with the settled law
of Alabama. .InPolloce v. Meyer, 96 Alabama, 172, it 'was
held that:

.

" If the property conveyed by an insolvent debtor in payment of predxisting .debts does not materially exceed in
value the amount of indebtedness actually owing and paid by
,the.conveyance, and no benefit is reserved to the grantor, the
conveyance is lawful as against his other creditors, regardless
of the motives of the parties to the conveyance- or" of badges.
of fraud in the transaction."
On page 175 the court cites approvingly from the decision
in F&stN1ationaZ Bank of Birmingham v. Smith, 93 Alabama,
97, as follows:
cc An insolvent debtor may select which of his creditors, one
or more, he will pay, and pay them in full, and thus disable
himself to pay the others anything; arid it-makes no difference
if the one or more preferred creditors know -the effect of the
transaction will be to deprive the debtor of all means 'with
which to pay his other .debts. Nor is..the wish,' motive, or intention of the debtor a material inquiry, if the requisite conditions-exist. Those'conditions, in a case like the present, are:
First, the debt must be bona ftde and enforceable, not simu.
lated; second, the payment must be absolute; and, if made in
property, must not be materially in excess of- the debt; third,
no pecuniary benefit or consideration'of value, other than thg
liquidation of the debt, must inure 'orbe .secured to, the debtor.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The true inquiry at last is, did the creditor bargain
for and receive overpayment, or payment in excess of his just
demand? "
The court further observed, on page 176, as follows:
"The principle of law settled by the decisions of this court is,
that the payment of an antecedent debt by an insolvent debtor,
by a conveyance of his property, rests upon entixely different
grounds than when a cash or present consideration is-paid. It
matters not whether the grantor alone, or grantor and grantee
both, devised and intended to get the advantage of other creditors, if, in fact, the effect of the transaction was solely to pay a
debt honestly due, and the property was received by the creditor in payment of his debt at a fair and adequate price, and
no interest or benefit reserved to the grantor debtor. IIf the
transaction is not assailable on one of these grounds, fraud has
no room-for operation.' As was said in H-odges v. Coleman,
76 Alabama, 103: 'What injury can the motive do to a nonpreferred creditor? The act, as we have seen, is lawful. Can
human tribunals set aside a transaction, lawful in itself, because the actors had an evil mind in doing it? Can there be
fraud in doing a lawful act, even though it be prompted by an
evil malice or badges of fraud?'"
Second. The efect of the general assignment.
The error alleged to exist in the charge of the court as to
the legal consequences of the general assignment and its effect
on the sale to the Memphis firm, which was made a few hours
before the general assignment, is equally unfounded. The
instruction given substantially was that if the sale to the
Memphis firm was valid, the making of the general assignment
on the same day did not render it illegal. The decision of the
Supreme Court of Alabama in 'llison v. 3oses, 95 Alabama,
221, is decisive of the correctness of this instruction. In that
case creditors of a partnership sought to have several conveyances which had been executed by the partnership declared
parts of a general assignment subsequently executed. The
court held, however, that:
"An insolvent debtor having, under repeated decisions of
this court, the right to sell and convey property in absolute

BA.MERGER v. SCHOOLFIEILD.

161

Opinion of the Court.

payment of an existing debt, provided the price is fair and
reasonable, and no use or benefit is reserved to himself, such
absolute sale and conveyance will not, at the instance of other
creditors, be declared and treated as part of a general assignment executed soon afterwards (Code, 1737), though executed
in anticipation of it; and with notice on the part of the creditor
that the debtor intended to make a general assignment."
In its opinion the court further said (p. 221):
"The law of this State permits an -insolvent debtor to make
preferences among his creditors in the payment of his debts,
by an absolute sale or transfer of his property in'discharge of
such debts. He may convey the whole or any part of his
property in payment of an antecedent debt, and if the price
is reasonably fair, and there is no reservation of a benefit or
trust in his favor, the sale is valid and will be sustained, whatever may have been the debtor's intentions, and though the
preferred creditor knew of such intentions, and that the sale
would leave the debtor unable to pay his other debts. That
such preferences are allowable is settled by numerous decisions
of this court. Chipman v. Stern, 89 Alabama, 207; Hodges v.
Coleman, 76 Alabama, 103; C 'awfordv. K.irksey, 55 Alabama,
282; 3 Brick. Dig. 517. The statutory prohibition against preferences in general a.signments (Code, 1737) does not operate
upon an absolute a~ic unconditional sale of a debtor's property to
his creditors in payment of the debts due to them. This question, also, is'well settled by the former decisions of this court.
The general assignment, in which preferences or priorities of
payment given to one or more creditors over the others are prohibited, implies the idea of a trust, under the operation of which
there is a possibility of a reversion to the debtor of some interest in the proceeds of A sale of the property assigned. -No
such idea is involved in an unconditional sale of property in
absolute payment and discharge of a debt. Here the debt .is
extinguished, and the debtor is stripped of all interest, in the
property sold. Such a sale is not within the purview of the statute, and if a preference is thereby effected, it is not such a preference as the statute prohibits. Otis v. MfcGuire, 76 Alabama,
295 ; Danne v. Brewer, 69 Alabama, 191 ; 6omer v. ConstanVOL. OLM-li

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tine, 86 Alabama, 492. The result is, that the law as it now
stands permits an insolvent debtor to prefer one or more of his
creditors over the others in the payment of debts by a sale of
property in satisfaction thereof, and prohibits preferences or
priorities of payment in a general assignment by the debtor
for the benefit of his creditors. Only the legislature can make
the prohibition against preferences equally operative in both
classes of cases. The courts must recognize and enforce the
law as it exists. They cannot ignore distinctions created by
the law-making power."
By recent legislation in Alabama the provisions of section
1737 of the Alabama code, upon which these rulings were
made, have been amended, so that a conveyance substantially
of all a debtor's property in payment of prior debts is put
upon the same footing with conveyances for the security
of debts-. Strickland v. Gay, 16 South. Rep. 77, 78. The
questions, however, here are obviously to be determined by
the law of Alabama existing at the time the transactions
occurred.
Third. Burden of 1iroofto establishfraud.
The instruction complained of on this subject was that if
the proof showed that the Memphis firm had an honest debt,
and they purchased the stock at a fair and reasonable price
in payment of that indebtedness, the burden was on the plaintiffs to show that a benefit or interest in the sale was reserved
to Warten; in other words, that the transfer was fraudulent.
It is urged that this instruction ignored the rule of evidence
as to the presumption of law which arises from proof of circumstances of suspicion and badges of fraud, which, it is
asserted, were shown in this case by the evidence offered in
behalf of the Louisville firm. In Curran v. Olmstead, 101
Alabama, 692, it was said (page 694):
"When the transaction is assailed by an antecedent creditor,
the burden rests on a creditor who has been preferred to prove
the existence, amount, and justness of his claim, and when
paid in property he must also prove that the property was
taken at a price not materially below its fair market value."
The burden of proof to show fraud and notice of fraud was

BAMBERGER v. SCIIOOLFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

on the party alleging fraud.

Hodges v. Coleman,.76Alabama,

103; Pollak v. Seardy, 84 Alabama, 259. See also Jones v.
Simpsom, 116 U. S. 609, 615. In Pollak v. Searcy, sypra, the
court said:
"If the facts of indebtedness and that the goods were. sold
in payment of such indebtedness at their reasonable fair value
are established to the satisfaction of the jury, and if it, be contpnded, in avoidance, thereof, that the trade was simulated,
that there was a secret trust or benefit reserved to the debtors,
the burden was then on the contesting creditor to establish
it."
So in 1Roswald v. Eobble, 85 Alabama, 73, it was held that:
"As against creditors of an insolvent debtor, the one claiming as a purchaser must prove that he paid a valuable and
adequate consideration, but is not bound to negative the reservation of a benefit to a debtor."
Fourth. As to the efect of the employment of larten dftei
the sale and the res'ale to Xi's. -Tarten.
The charges g'en by the court on this subject were as
follows:
"If the jury find from the evidence, under -the instructions
given by the court, that Schoolfield, .llana-uer & Co. made a
valid purchase of the stock of goods in controversy from
Henry Warten, then Schoolfield, Hlanauer & Co. had a legal
right to employ Warten for their benefit to assist in winding
up the business, and turning the goods into money as promptly
and economically as possible."
"If the jury find from evidence that prior to the 13th day
of January, 1890, Henry Warten had been'engaged for Several
years in an established and extensive business at Athens; Ala.,
and that he sold his stock of goods to Schoolfield, Hanauer &
Co. in a valid way, it is but reasonable that Warten might be
employed by Schoolfield, Hanauer & Co. as a clerk to assist
in the winding up of the business for the benefit of Schoolfield, Hanauer & Co. Such circumstance is not of itself
fraudulent."
"If the jury.find from the evidence in this cause, under the
instructions given by the court, that the saleby Henry Warten

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to Schoolfield, Hanauer & Co. is valid, then Schoolfield,
Hanauer & Co. had the legal right to give the stock of goods
to Mrs. Warten or sell the same to her on such terms as they
desired."
In considering the correctness of these instructions, we
necessarily assume the lonafjdes of the sale made to the MNemphis firm and its validity, except in so far as its legality may
have been affected by the employment of Warten and the
subsequent sale to his wife. But the proof on the subject of
the circumstances which gave rise to the employment of Warten and the resale to Mrs. Warten was conflicting. The fact
of the employment and resale, no question being made as to
the reality of the transfer, could at best have been only competent evidence to be considered by the jury in determining
whether or not a secret benefit was reserved to the debtor in
the original transaction, which was the issue on this branch
of the case. Certainly, if nothing else appeared but the mere
employment of Warten, subsequent to the sale, to assist in
the disposition of the goods and the getting in of the book
accounts, such fact would not be a. circumstance in itself sufficient to prove within the meaning of- the Alabama law that
the transaction was fraudulent. Even if, at the time of the
sale, there had been an agreement to employ, such fact would
not of itself have necessarily implied a reservation of benefit
in favor of the seller so as to have rendered the sale invalid
under the Alabama law. .Murrayv. -Mclealy,86 Alabama,
234. Such also is the general rule. Smith v. .raeft, 123 U. S.
436; Burrell on Assignments, 6th ed. p. 471, ยง 343, and authorities there cited. Indeed, under the rule as announced
in Alabama, the court could have affirmatively instructed that
the employment of the vendor in a clerical capacity could not
affect the validity of the sale. Bihardson v. Stringfellow,
100 Alabama, 416, 422.
The instruction that if the original sale by Warten was
valid the purchasers had a legal right to dispose of the property to Mrs. Warten, is Within the principle of the decision
in Young v. Dumas, 39 Alabama, 60, 62, where the court said
- speaking of a gift, by a father to his daughter, of property

BAMBRGER v. SCHOOLFIE 2 D.
Opinion of the Court.

which the father had received from his son-in-lawin payment
of an indebtedness due from the son-in-law to the father- as
follows:" r. Horn-had the clear right to collect his demand, which
we have seen was just, from- his son-in-law, Mr. Dumas; and
after he thus became the owner of the property, his right to
give that property to the sole and exclusivb use of. his daughter, Mrs. Dumas, cannot be successfully controverted by the
creditors of Mr.'Dumas. As to them, the gift was harmless.
That the effect may have been to'delay, and, possibly, defeat
all other creditors in the collection of their demands, cannot,
of itself, avoid the sale."
It is argued that whilst these charges may not have been
intrinsically erronepus they were yet illegal, because they
singled out some of the strongest badges of fraud upon which
the plaintiff relied, and ' weakened, impaired, or destroyed
their force and weight as evidence; that they were argumentative deductions, the nec6ssary effect of which was to obscure
the force of the inferences of fraud which the jury might
have deduced from the fact of the employment -and the resale,
and, therefore, 'practically prevented the jury in drawing its
conclusions from giving due consideration to these matters.
Bfit it nowhere appears that the court instructed the jury that
they might not, in reaching a determination upon the bona
fdes of the sale by Warten to the Memphis. firm, and the
questiou whether a secret benefit was reserved in his favor,
consider such facts as the subsequent employment of 'Warten,
and the sale thereafter to his wife. As amatter of fact, the
portions of the general charge of the court set .forth in the
record make it clear that the question of* reservation of a
secret benefit to Warten in the sale, was particularly called to
the attention of the jury as necessary to be considered by
them in arriving at a conclusion as to the validity of the
transfer. We are unable to see that the charges in question
had a tendency to cause the jury to regard the fact of the
employment of Warten and the sale to his wife as not important to be weighed by them in passing upon the bona fde# of
the sale to the Memphis firm.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Fifth. Error as to the efect of having .included in the deb
for which the sale was made the note dated Jne 10, for two
thousandfive hundreddollars.
The three following instruqtions on the subject were asked
and refused:
"33. If any part of the debt claimed-by Schoolfield, Ranauer & Company against Warten as the consideration of the
transfer of the goods to them is simulated or pretended, that
fact would vitiate the whole transaction. If the jury find
from the evidence that part of the consideration is composed
of the note of Warten for $2500, which was due and payable
to the Schoolfield Hanauer Company, a corporation under the
laws of Tennessee, and that said note was taken from the
account of said corporation and placed upon the account of
the claimants for the purpose of increasing the account of
Schoolfield, Hanauer & Company, that account to the extent
of said $2500 would be simulated, and this would vitiate the
transaction, and if -the jury so find, their verdict should be for
the plaintiffs.
"34. If part of the consideration of the transfer from Warten to the claimants is a note for $2500, payable to the Schoolfield Hanauer Company and owned by them, and if the said
note was transferred to the account of Schoolfield, Hanauer
& Company, and if said transfer was made for the purpose of
increasing the firm's debt against Warten, so as to make it
equal in amount to the value of the goods anc property transferred by Warten to the claimants, the consideration for such
transfer to the extent of said note for $2500 would be simulated, and this would vitiate the transfer, and if the jury so
find the facts, their verdict must be for the plaintiffs."
"36. If the jury believe from the evidence that the promissory note for $2500, made by Henry Warten on June 10th,
1889, payable to the order of Schoolfield, Hanauer & Company, at the office of the Sclhoolfiekd Hanauer Company, four
months after date, and endorsed 'The Schoolfield Hanauer
Company, p'r W. W. Schoolfield, treasurer,' was taken and
endorsed by said corporation, and it let said Warten have the
amount thereof, less discount, being $- by crediting his

BAJMBERGER v. SCOOiFIELI.
Opinion of the Court.

account with said corporation for $-,
as'shown by said
statements of said accounts in evidence in this case, then said
draft became the property of said corporation, and it was an
indebtedness due by said Warten to it; and if the.jury further
believe from the evidence that said. indebtedness was transferred from the account of said Warten with said corporation
to the account of said Warten with said finn on or about the
11th day of Tanuaryr1890, for the purpose of evading thelaw
of the State of Alabama, whfch prohibits foreign corporations
from doing business fn the State of Alabama without knownplace of business and authorized agent therein, the jury would
be authorized to find that said indebtedness was the property
of and due to said corporation, and not said firm, when said
alleged transfer of the stock of goods in dispute in this suit to
said firm by said Warten was made, and should they so find,in that event their verdict should be for the plaintiffs." They were rightly refused. There was no proof of any kind
even tending to show the simulation of the note. It was certainly, under the undisputed proof, due by Warten; it was
drawn to the order of the 'emphis firm, who were, as endorsers, necessary parties to its negotiation. That firm bad
an obvious right, with the consent of the company by- whom
the paper had been discounted, to use it as a debt -due them,
and thus protect their endorsement. Nor was the sending of
a note to Tennessee for discount, and its, discounting in that
State by the Memphis company, carrying on business in .Alabama by the Memphis company. The second section of the
fourteenth article of the constitution of Alabama and'the act
of the legislature of 1886-7, pp. 102, 104, relied on by the
plaintiff in error, have been held by the courts of Alabama
not to have been intended to (as of course they could noi)
interfere with matters of commerce between. the States, and
to have no application to.transactions such as that here -under
consideration. Ware v. Hamilton Shoe Go., 92 Alabama, 145;
Cook v. Rome Brick Co., 98 Alabama, 409.
Sixth. Error as to the bearing on the rights of the. parti,,:.
of the leer wiritten by the Memphis ir-m, and the settlement
-had

by the latter with Warten, after the Writing of the letter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Much stress is placed by counsel on this proposition. The
contention is that the Louisville firm having been induced
to give an extension on the faith of the letter written them by
the Memphis firm, the latter could not receive payment by
sale, from the debtor, which created a pieference, without
operating a fraud upon the Louisville firm. To support this
contention authorities are cited holding that when creditors
have jointly agreed, each upon the faith of the other's promises, to extend the indebtedness of their co-debtor for a fixed
and definite period, a party to such an agreement who secures
an advantage to himself out of the mutual debtor's property,
during such extended period, may be compelled to account for
the property received and permit the other creditors to share
pro rata with him. But the fallacy is not in the legal proposition, but in its application to the facts here considered and
consists in treating the Memphis firm as consenting to and
being bound by the terms of the extension granted to Warten
by the firm in Louisville. There was no evidence even tending to so prove. The only connection of the Memphis firm
with"the settlement, even if all the disputed questions of fact
were determined in favor of the firm at Louisville, was the
letter from the Memphis firm, presented by Warten when the
extension was made. But the letter could not give rise to
the obligations contended for, since the extension granted by
the Louisville firm was in conflict with the obvious intent of the
letter. It stated that Warten, "1through we believe no fault
of his own, but owing to disastrous failure of crops in his own
section, finds himself forced to ask for extension," and expressed a willingness to grant the extension provided the
Louisville firm would do likewise. The extension referred to
must necessarily have meant an extension to the next crop
year, otherwise the letter was meaningless. The disaster calling for the extension was the crop failure, and the substantial
results of the crop being realized by the end of December, it
was self-evident that the extension proposed, and which the
Memphis firm was willind to give, in conjunction with the
Louisville firm, was one which would carry the debtor to
another crop. This becomes more manifest when it is

BAMBERGER v. SCHOOLFIEILD.
Opinion of the Court.

considered that the extension was only to be asked of three
creditors, the Louisville firm, the Memphis firm, and one
other, leaving the other debts unextended. But the extension
granted by the Louisville firm did not accede to this proposal,
since it embraced short time acceptances for three thousand
dollars, which they could only hope to be paid out of the avails
of the disastrous failure of the crop which had by the terms of
the letter given rise to the necessity for the extension. Doubtless it was this view of the relation of the parties which caused
the court to instruct the jury that if the Louisville firm took
short time paper from Warten in the hope of' obtaining an
advantage over the Memphis firm, they would have no right
to complain because the Memphis firm overtook them in the
race of diligence. Whether, however, this iistruction was"
given because the court took this view of the letter and the
legal effect of its unaccepted liroposal, is immaterial. The
entire charge is not in the record. The court may have expressed itself in this matter to the jury, in connection with
observations possibly advanced in argument by counsel for
plaintiffs in error upon their claim that the Memphis firm in
the letter in question had sought to gain an advantage. And
if such were the case, it was not error for the court to call
the attention of the jury to the opposing view of the transaction.
These conclusions dispose 6f all the errors assigned which
relate to the instructions given by the court, and leave only
the exceptions taken to rulings admitting or rejecting testimony. They are twelve in number. We have examined
them all, "and content ourselves with saying that we find
them either not well taken or of such a character on account
of their immateriality as to create no.reversible error.
Afwirmed.

