OCTOBER TERMff 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ficiently every suggestion that the evidence was admissible
without it. And as this was not legitimate rebutting testimony, it could not be admitted without the proper foundation
although the order of proof was waived.
As we understand the record, a sharp controversy was raised
over what deceased had said at the time of the homicide, and
the evidence of Wheeler may have had so important a bearing
that its admission must be regarded as prejudicial error.
Whether the homicide was committed under such circumstances as to reduce the grade of the crime, from murder to
manslaughter, or as to permit an acquittal on the ground of
misadventure, were questions raised in the case on behalf of
plaintiff in error; and it is urged that the exception should
be sustained to the statement in the charge that "if a man
does not exercise the highest possible care that he can exercise under the circumstances, when handling firearms, his act
passes out of that classification known as an accident."
But we do not feel called upon to consider this question or
any of the other errors assigned, as they may not arise on a
new trial in the form in which they are now presented.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with a dirction to
set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. FITZGERALD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 62T. Submitted December 9,1895. - Decided January 18, 1898.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska that the Missouri Pacific
company could not maintain its claim for damages because its possession had not been disturbed or its title questioned, involved no Federal
question; and where a decision of a state court thus rests on independent
ground, not involving a Federal question, and broad enough to maintain
the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed by this court, without
considering any Federal question that may also have been presented.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

557

Statement of the Case.
In deciding adversely to the claim of the plaintiff in error that by reason of
the process of garnishment in attachment against the Missouri Pacific
company, in the action removed to the Circuit Court from the tate
court, the Circuit Court acquired exclusive jurisdiction over the moneys
due the Construction company from the Pacific company, the Supreme
Cdurt of Nebraska did not so pass upon a Federal question as to furnish
ground for the interposition of this court.
In appointing a receiver of the Construction company to collect the amoun t
of the decree against the Missouri Pacific company, the Supreme Court
of Nebraska denied no Federal right of the Missouri. Pacific company.
When a party to an action in a state court moves there for its removal to
the Circuit Court of the United States, and the motion is denied, and the
party nevertheless files the record in the Circuit Court, and the Circuit
Court proceeds to final hearing, (the state court meanwhile suspending
all action,) and remands the case to the state court, the order efusing the*
removal worked no prejudice, and the error, in that regard, if any, was
immaterial.
An order of the Circuit Court remanding a cause cannot be reviewed in this
court by any direct proceeding for that purpose.
If a state court proceeds to judgment in a cause notwithstanding an application for removal, its ruling in retaining the case will be reviewable here
1
after final judgment under Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
If 'a case be removed to the Circuit Court and a motion to remand be'made
and denied, then after final judgment the action of the Circuit Court in
refusing to remand may be revieiyed here on error or appeal.
If the Circuit Court and the state court go to judgment, respectively, each
judgment is open to revision in the appropriate mode.
If the Circuit Court remands a cause and the state court thereupon jiroceeds
to final judgment, the action of the Circuit Court is not reviewable on
writ of error to such judgment.
A state court cannot be held to have decided against a Federal right when
it is the Circuit Court, and not the state court, whichhas denied its possession.

THis .was a petition filed December 24, 1888, in the District .Court for Lancaster County, Nebraska, by John Fitzgerald, suing on behalf of himself and all other stockholders
of the Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company against
that company and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Missouri, Kansas, and
Nebraska.- The petition was based on two contracts, (copies of
which were annexed,) one bearing date April 28, 1886, between
the Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company,-and. the
Denver, Memphis and Atlantic Railway Company, a corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tion organized under the laws of the State of Kansas. By
this contract the Construction company agreed to build a
railroad in Kansas from the east to the west line of that State;
-to furnish all materials and money; to equip the same with
at least one thousand dollars of rolling stock per mile; to
grade the line according to the engineer's surveys; to furnish
oak ties on curves not less than 2600 to the mile, and steel
rails not less than twenty-six pounds to the yard; to build such
depot and stations as the Denver company should require, and
all necessary sidings or turnouts, and, generally, to construct
the road equal to railroads then being built in Southern Kansas. The Denver company agreed to pay $16,000 per mile of
its full paid capital stock for every mile of completed road
constructed, and $16,000 in its first mortgage bonds per mile
of single track of the road, which bonds were each to be for
one thousand dollars, or such other denomination as the parties
should agree upon; draw interest at six per cent; be dated
July 1, 1886; run thirty years from date; and be secured by
a trust deed on the line and branches. They were to be
delivered as the Construction company required them. The
Denver company was-also to deliver to the Construction company all municipal and county bonds voted and to be voted
in aid of the railroad, and all donations thereto, and procure
the right of way in advance of the work, so as not to delay
tfie construction, but the Construction company was to pay
for the right of way.
The other contract, dated May 4, 1886, was between the
Missouri Pacific Railway Company and the Construction company. It recited the contract of April 28, and also that
the Missouri Pacific company desired to obtain control of the
railway. The Construction company agreed to sell to the
Missouri Pacific company all the securities which it should
receive under the first contract, for which the Missouri Pacific
company was to deliver to it five per cent bonds at the rate of
$12,000 per mile of completed road. The Missouri Pacific company also agreed to transport at cost the men and material of
the Construction company while it was carrying on the work.
The petition alleged that the Construction company was a

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY, v. FITZGERALD,

559

Statement of the Case.

corporation of Iowa, having a capital of , million and a half,
divided into shares of one hundred dbllars each, of which
Fitzgerald held fifteen. hundred, S. H., Mallory, fifteen hundred, and Gould and other citizens of, New .York something
over ten thousand; that the, holders of.,over eight thousand

shares were officers and directors of the Missouri Pacific coinpany ; and that the bankers of the latter, company, held two
thousand shares. It was further alleged, that shortly after the
execution of the two contracts, all the directors of the Denver
company, except Fitzgerald and Mallory, resigned, and their
places .were filled by officers and directors of the Missouri
Pacific company; that the directory of the Construction company was changed so that of its five directors three were connected with the Missouri Pacific. company, Fitzgerald and
Mallory being the other two.,, The work in, the field was
carried on by Fitzgerald' and Mallory, and the, financial ,dealings of the Denver and the Construction companies were in
the hands of the New York-directors. -Fitzgerald complained
of many transactions of the New York directors of theConstruction company which were prejudicial- to himself and other
creditors and stockholders and Jn the interest of the Missouri
Pacific company.
., I .
The road was built by the Construction company, and Fitzgerald alleged that,. after that was accomplished, he made
efforts to secure ,an accounting between the- -Missouri-Pacific
and the Construction companies which were unsuccessful, and
he brought the suit as a stockholder for the purpose of settling
the dealings between the two companies.
The petition also averred,.that th& Denver company failed
to comply with the provisions of, the contract in ,reference to
procuing the right of way to the damage of the Construction
*company, for which it charged' that the Missouri Pacific compaiiy was liable.,
It was also alleged that -the Construction company, not onlyowed Fitzgerald individually a large amount of money,, but
for money expended in the .bringing of this as well as other
suits, for attorneys' fees, and other like matters,, for which he
.. I I
,
I
asked reimbursement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The prayer of the petition was that an accounting be had
between the Missouri Pacific company and the Construction
company; that certain action of the board of directors and
arrangements.between the Missouri Pacific company and the
Construction company be declared null and void; that the
Missouri Pacific company be compelled to account in relation
to certain enumerated matters and generally, and pay over all
moneys, found due to the Construction company; also that
complainant "be reimbursed for all expenses and attorneys'
fees in other suits that he has been forced by the action of said
directors to commence, as well as in this case;" an~d for general relief.
The answer of the Missouri Pacific company was filed January 19, 1889, and admitted that defendant was a corporation
duly organized under the laws of Missouri, Kansas, and
Nebraska; but averred that the liability proceeded on, if any,
was a liability of the company incorporated under the laws of
the State -of Kansas. It charged that while the contract between the Denver-and Construction companies required the
Denver company to acquire the right of way, the Construction
company undertook to procure it, and became responsible to
the Missouri Pacific company for a good title; that somefifteen or more miles of the railroad were built'over the public
lands without complying with the act of Congress of March
3; 1875, granting to railroads the right of way through the
public lands, so that for that distance of road -the Missouri
Pacific company did not acquire such title as it was entitled
to, and it claimed that if there should be an accounting
between the Construction company and itself, it should not be
required to pay or account for any portion of the line where
the lawful right of way had not been secured, and that a deduction of twelve thousand dollars per mile of railroad so situated should be made. The answer further alleged that
Fitzgerald had theretofore commenced suit in the District
Court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, against the Construction
company to recover a sum exceeding fifty thousand dollars
and caused garnihee proceedings to be instituted against the
Missouri Pacific company, upon which it was required to an-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERAlD.

561

Statement ofthe Case.

swer as to all moneys in its hands-or under its control belong
ing to the Construction company or -due from the'-Missouri
Pacific company thereto, but that it had no interest inyFitzgerald's individual claim or knowledge,,concerning the merits
thereof. Various other admissions; 'denials, and averments
is unneceswere made in the answer upon the merits, which it,
sary to set forth. The Construction company filed a demurrer
to the petition.
On the same day, January' 19, 1889, the Missouri, Pacific
company filed its petition to remove the cause to the :.ircuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska on
two grounds, diverse citizenship and the question raised by
the claim of the Missouri Pacific company in respect of part
of the road constructed over the public lands. ,It appeared
from the pleadings that Fitzgerald was a citizen of-, Nebraska,
and that the Construction company; was a corporation, of
Iowa; that the Missouri Pacific' company ,was a corporation.
organized under the laws of Kansas, Missouri, .and Nebraska;
but in its answer, as already stated,. the Missouri Pacific- company claimed that, it was not the corporation referred to in
the petition, and that the liabilities arising under the contract
were liabilities. of,the company organized- -and existing-under
the laws of Kansas. The Construction. company also filed, a
.
petition for removal.
and refused to ac
'the,,petitions
denied
'Court
The District
- however,
company,
Pacific
cept the bonds. The Missouri
and
-States
filed the record in the Circuit Court of the United
Fitzgerald filed a motion to. remand and a plea to the jurisdiction, which motion was denied and the, plea overruled, and
the cause was referred to a special-master to takeproofs., '
May 6, 1891, the cause came on to be heard upon the
pleadings, proofs, and the report of the master, and the Circuit Court held that the cause had been improperlyremoved
from the state court, and ordered it remanded- at the, costs of
the Missouri Pacific company., The reasons for this conclusion are given in an opinion reported 45 Fed. Rep. 812. The
cause having been returned.to the Distribt Court of the State,
the parties entered into a stipulation that the action be conVOLP, CLX-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tinned to the next September term then to be tried, and that
the depositions taken in the Circuit Court might be read as
if taken in the state court. An amended petition and an
amended and supplemental answer were filed. Trial was had
as agreed in the District Court of Lancaster County, which
made a finding of facts, and rendered judgment against the
Missouri Pacific company.
The forty-seventh finding of fact was as follows: "(47)
That about fifteen miles of railroad was laid out over government -land; that no maps were filed with the Secretary of
the Interor showing the lines of Way over said government
land in the State of Kansas, but maps were filed with the
local land officers of the United States at Wa Keeney, Kansas, duly certified to, showing said right of way."
Both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, and
that court rendered a judgment against the Missouri Pacific
company. 41 Nebraska, 374. The Missouri Pacific company made application for a rehearing, pending which Fitzgerald died, and Mary Fitzgerald, as his administratrix, filed
her petition for revivor and for a receiver of the Construction
company to collect the judgment. In support of the application for a receiver, it was alleged that about the time Fitzgerald recovered judgment, the Missouri Pacific company
caused a suit to be brought against the Construction company
in the name of the Kansas and Colorado Pacific Railway
Company, which was owned by the Missouri Pacific company, and it was charged on various grounds that the action
was collusive and contrived to deprive the Supreme Court of
the State of its jurisdiction, and Fitzgerald of the fruits of its
judgment, and that a receiver had been procured to be appointed by the Circuit Court in that action in furtherance
of that object.
The Missouri Pacific company filed an answer and plea to
this petition, denying collusion and urging objections to the
application for a receiver in this case, which, so far as necessary, are hereafter stated. A reply was filed by Mrs. Fitzgerald
to this answer and plea. The Supreme Court, having granted
a rehearing, entered an order of revivor, rendered judgment

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

563

Statement of the Case,

against the :Missouri Pacific company, and appointed a receiver.
62 N. W. Rep. 899. The pending writ of error was then sued
out, and a motion to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction
or to affirm the judgment was made.
The following are the errors assigned:
"11. The court erred in taking or assuming any jurisdiction
and in holding that it had any jurisdiction of this cause foras'much as it appeared by the record that the,defendant, the
Missouri Pacific Railway Company, duly and seasonably and
as within the time provided by the act of ,Congress, filed and
presented its petition and bond'for removal of said cause, to
the United States Circuit Court for the proper district,-to wit,
the United' States Circuit Court for the .District of,Nebraska,
on the ground that in said suit there was a controversy wholly
between citizens of different States, removable ;under said act
to said United States Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska,
which said bond was refused,. and which said, petition, was
denied,' the defendant at the time duly excepting, to, such
refusal and denial..
"2. The said court erred in, taking or assuming any jurisdiction and in holding that it had any jurisdiction of this
cause, forasmuch as in and by its said petition for removal of
this cause to the United'States Circuit Court for the ,District
of Nebraska, the said Missouri Pacific Railway; Company
set up and claimed a right, ,claim, privilege,, immunity and
authority under an act of Congress approved- March 3, -1875,
entitled 'An act granting the railroads the, right of way
through public lands of the United States,' and by, reason
of said act of Congress claimed that said cause arosd under
the laws of the United States, which said claim and petition of
said defendant were erroneously overruled by said District
Court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, and by said,,Supreme
.
,
Court of Nebraska.
"3. The said Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska erred
had
in taking or assuming jurisdiction or in holding that it,
jurisdiction of this cause, forasmuch as itappeared by the
record in said cause that, the .defendant, the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company, was, at the time when said cause was com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

menced, a citizen, resident, and inhabitant, of the State of
Missouri, within the meaning of the acts of Congress of the
United States relating to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
and the plaintiff, John Fitzgerald, was a citizen, resident, and
inhabitant, of the State of Nebraska, but his said action was
to enforce a cause of action as a stockholder of and for the
benefit of the defendant, the Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company, which was at said time a citizen, resident,
and inhabitant, of the State of Iowa, within the meaning of
said acts of Congress, and the controversy was therefore a
controversy between citizens of different States within the
meaning of the said acts of Congress xelating to removal of
causes. It further appeared from the record that the matter in
dispute in said cause exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs,
the sum or value of $2000.00. It further appeared from the
record that the defendant, the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, upon the grounds aforesaid including the ground of such
diversity of citizenship and jurisdictional amount, duly and
seasonably made and filed its petition in this cause in said
court, to wit, the District Court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, at the time, or at a time before the said defendant was
required by tihe laws of said State of Nebraska or by the.rule of
said state court in which such suit was brought, to answer or
plead to the declaration or complaint or petition of the plaintiff, for the removal of such suit into the said Circuit Court of
the United States to be held in the district where such. suit
was pending, to wit, the Circuit Court of the United States in
and for the District of Nebraska, and said defendant made
and filed therewith, to wit, -with its said petitibn, a bond with
good and sufficient surety for its entering in such Circuit Court
on the first day of its then next session a copy of the record
in said suit and for paying all costs that might be awarded by
the said Circuit Court if said Circuit Court should hold that
such suit was wrongfully and improperly removed thereto,
which said petition was erroneously denied and which said
bond was erroneously refused by said state court, to which
denial and refusal the said Missouri Paoific Railway Company
then 4nd there duly excepted.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

565

Statbment of the Case.

"4. The said Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska
erred in taking or assuming or -in undertaking to exercise
jurisdiction of this cause and of the parties thereto by reason
of the proceedings, for- the removal thereof hereinbefore recited, and in denying the right and authority so set .up' and
undertaken to be exercised by. the said defendant, the Missouri Pacific Railway Company., under, the statute and laws
of the United States relating to the removal of causes of civil
nature from the state to the Federal courts.
"5. The said Supreme Court of. the State of' Nebraska
erred in taking or. assuming to exercise, jurisdiction in this
cause and to hear and determine the same and to pronounce
final judgment therein forasmuch as it wasr made t6 appear
to said court, and did appear, by the record in. this cause, that
the Circuit Court of the United States, in"and for the District
of Nebraska, had duly taken and undertake.n to exercise urisdiction of said cause and of the parties thereto ,and had'b
due judgment and order overruled and'denied application -of
the plaintiff herein to remand. said cause to said state court,
to wit, the District Court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, and
had by due order and judgment overruled a plea in abatement
interposed by the said plaintiff to the jurisdiction of the said

Federal court, all of which o'rders'-and ;judgments of said Federal court then remained in full force 'and effect) unappealed
1
from and unreversed.,
"6. The Supreme Court of the' State of N eraska erred in
denying and overruling the plea in abatem'ent to its jurisdiction interposed by the 'said defendant, the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company, in answer and ireply to the petition of
Mary Fitzgerald, administratrix, to revive this action and
cause in ,her name, as the successor of John Fitzgerald, the
original plaintiff, then deceased.
"7. The said Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska err d
in denying the claim set up, and claimed by the said defendant,"
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, to immunity from
any recovery for or, in respect of seventeen -miles-of railroad

constructed over the. public domain by the said' Fitzgerald -aiid
Mallory Construction Company in the name of the Denver,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Memphis and Atlantic Railway Company, without compli.
ance with an act of Congress of the United States, approved
March 3, 1875, entitled ' An act granting to railroads the
right of way through lands of the, United States,' specifically
referred to and set forth in the answer of the said defendant,
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, in this cause.
"8. Said Supreme Court of Nebraska erred in denying and
overruling the plea in abatement of the defendant,, the Missouri
Pacific Railway Company, to the jurisdiction of said court
wherein and whereby it appeared that on the 24th day of
December, 1888, John Fitzgerald, the original plaintiff herein,
instituted an action in his own name against the Fitzgerald
and Mallory Construction Company to recover from said company an amount alleged to be due from said company, and
thereby by due proceedings caused an attachment to issue
and garnishment notice to be served upon the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company charging it as garnishee, and thereby
placing whatever fund or moneys might be due from it to
said Construction company in the custody of the law, and
whereby it further appeared that by due proceedings had, said
action so instituted by said John Fitzgerald was in due time
properly removed from the District Court of Lancaster County,
Nebraska, in which it was instituted, to the Circuit Court of the
United States in and for the District of Nebraska, and under
and by virtue of section 4 of the removal act of Congress,
March 3, 1875, the said attachment and garnishment' proceedings were wholly rem.oved into said Circuit Court of
the United States, and said court then and there, by virtue
thereof, acquired exclusive jurisdiction of said fund and
moneys due from said Missouri Pacific Railway Company
to said Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company and
of any controversy between said companies with respect to
such fund.
"9. The said Supreme Court of Nebraska erred in holding
and deciding that under and by virtue of said removal -act of
Congress the said fund so garnished in the hands of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company was not placed in the custody
and under the exclusive control of said Circuit Court of the

MISSOURI PACIFIO RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

567

Names of Counsel.

United States by reason of said removal of said action of
John Fitzgerald against the Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company.
"10. The Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska erred in
appointing a receiver of the Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company, and in investing or undertaking, to invest the
said receiver with any cause of action against the defendant,
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, forasmuch as it was
made to appear, and did appear by the record in saiai court in
said cause that in a certain cause entitled ' The Kansas, . Colorado and Pacific Railroad Company against The Fitzgerald
and Mallory Construction Company,' theretofore and then
pending in the Circuit Court of the United States, in and
for the District of Nebraska, by due proceedings had in the
said Circuit Court, had appointed a receiver of said Fitzgerald
and Mallory Construction Company, and of all of the property
and assets thereof, and said receivership so appointed by said
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska had not been terminated and vacated, and said receivership had not been discharged.
"11. The Supreme Court of Nebraska erred in allowing as
a charge against the Missouri Pacific Railway Company in
favor of said Fitzgerald and Mallory Construction Company
various items of alleged indebtedness of the Denver, Memphis
and Atlantic Railway Company to the said Fitzgerald and
Mallory Construction Company.
"12. The Supreme Court of Nebraska erred in refusing to
allow as proper charges against the Fitzgerald and Mallory
Construction Company the several items of- indebtedness of
said Construction company to the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company.
"13. The Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska erred
in holding that it had any jurisdiction to render and in rendering any judgment whatever against the defendant, the
Missouri Pacific Railway Company, in this cause."
&. ;J. AX. Woolworth, Mr. J. W. Deweese, and .Mr. F. Xl.
Ral for the motion to dismiss.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Argument against the Motion to Dismiss.

.A&. John F. Dillon, Mr. Winslow S. Pierce,and .Mr.B. P.
Tfaggener, opposing.
I. The order of the Circuit Court, overruling the plaintiff's
motion to remand, and the judgment on the issue joined by
the plea in abatement to the jurisdiction, disposed of the question of Federal jurisdiction, so far as that court was concerned,
and established and determined that the Circuit Court did
have jurisdiction of the cause. ifashuca & Lowell Railroad
v. Boston & Lowell Railroad,136 U. S. 356, 371.
In this case the Circuit Court overruled and denied the plea
to the jurisdiction, and entered the following order and judgment : "This cause having been heard on the motion of the
complainant to remand the same to the state district court
in and for Lancaster County, from whence it came, and upon
the plea to the jurisdiction of this court filed by said complainant, and the court, after careful consideration thereof,
and being fully advised in the premises, doth now on this day
order, adjudge, and decree that said motion to remand and
plea to the jurisdiction of this court be,.and the same are
hereby, overruled."
This order, judgment, and decree was made July 23, 1890,
at the May term, 1890, of the Circuit Court. No exception
was taken or preserved. It was not vacated or modified at
that term of court. It is conceded that no appeal or writ
of error was taken from that judgment and decree of the
court. The Federal court having thus overruled, the motion
to remand, and having denied the plea to the jurisdiction,
could not, at a subsequent term of that court, reverse, vacate,
or modify such order or judgment. Dowell v. Applegate, 152
U. S. 327, 340; Des Moines Navigation Co. v. Iowa Homestead
Co., 123 U. S. 552, 559.
Fitzgerald, having invoked the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court by his plea to its jurisdiction, to determine the question
so raised, is bound by the adverse decision of the court on the
issue so made by him, and the judgment is final, until reversed
on appeal or by writ of error. Gould v. Evansville & Crawfordsville Railroad, 91 U. S. 526.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

569

Argument against the ]$lotion to Dismiss.

While it is true that the act of .March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18
Stat. 470, provides, if in any suit commenced in one of such
courts, "iLi shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit
Court, at any time after such suit has been brought or removal thereof, that such suit aoes not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have
been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this act, the said Circuit Court shall
proceed no 'further therein," etc., yet we submit that when
the question whether the suit has been properly removed or
not is formally presented by motion and plea to the Circuit
Court, its judgment on that question is conclusive in that case
until reversed or modified by appeal or writ of error.
If the complainant had not filed a motion to remand , and
had not presented a plea to, the jurisdiction, then the act of
March 3, 1875, could have been invoked to justify the action
of the court in remanding the case at any time during the
progress of the trial, whenever it was made to appear that
the court, for any reason, did 'not have jurisdiction.-, The purpose of that act was to give the court authority to decide for
itself whether or not it had jurisdiction, irrespective of what
might be the wish of the parties litigant. The complainant,
however, by this motion to remand, challenged the suffciency
of the petition for removal, and that was decided adversely to
him. By his plea to the jurisdiction he put in issue the allegation of fact contained in the petition for removal, that the
suit was brought againsl the defendant company on a liability
which was created solely by the Kansas corporation, and that
the Kansas corporation was the company which was in fact
proceeded against, and not the iNebraska corporation. This
was an issue of fact, and the issues so made by the plea to
the jurisdiction were submitted to the court on the entire
record, and the court by overruling and denying that plea
found the issues against the: complainant. That. conclusion
of the court, as stated by Mr. Justice Harlan-in TuZner v.
Farmers' Loan-& Twt -Co., 106 U. S. 552, 554, "constituted

OCTOBER TERA,

1895.

Argument against the Motion to Dismiss.

an adjudication by the Federal court that the facts existed
which were necessary to give jurisdiction." In that case Mr.
Justice Harlan further said: "When the Circuit Court assumes
jurisdiction of the cause, the party denying its authority to do
so may, after final decree and by a direct appeal therefrom,
bring the case here for review upon the question of jurisdiction, the amount in dispute being sufficient for that purpose."
Railroad Co. v. Euntz, 1041 U. S. 515.
How, in view of the record in this case, is it possible for
the party making this motion to claim that no Federal question was made or arises on this. record? We submit, therefore, that the state court never had jurisdiction to hear, try,
and determine any of the matters in controversy; that the
case has at all times since the decision of the Circuit Court
on the question of jurisdiction been pending in the Circuit
Court, and that all action taken by the state court has been
without jurisdiction and without any authority in the premises whatever.
II. The state court should have removed the case into the
Circuit Court on the original petition for removal made by
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company.
As the subject-matter of controversy in this action was the
building of the railroad in the State of Kansas, as to which
the original Missouri company had no power, the petition for
removal rightfully treated the Missouri Pacific as to this particular controversy as.a citizen of Kansas.
And we here enter our protest against the practice of moving to dismiss or affirm a cause, as being too clear to justify
oral argument in due and regular course, when upon full consideration and argument it has been decided by Justice Miller
and Judge Dundy in one way, and by Judge Caldwell in another. The mere statement tha-t such judges had differed is
itself sufficicnt to entitle the parties to be heard at the bar of
this court, and t6 relieve the court from the necessity of going
through the voluminous record and arguments which are made
on this motion to dismiss and affirm.
III. The Supreme Court of Nebraska had no jurisdiction
to render any judgment against the Missouri Pacific Railway

ISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

571

Argument against the Motion. to Dismiss.

Company, and all. of its proceedings were coram non judice
because of the petition for removal filed by the defendant
Construction company.
IV. Other considerations establish the Federal jurisdiction
over the cause.
One of the claims made by the petition of the complainant
was for an accounting between the railway company and the
Construction company. This action 'vas to enforce a cause of
action in favor of the Construction company against the railway company. It was separate and wholly independent of
the controversies between the complainant and the Construction company. Tho relief sought was a judgment in favor
of the Construction company against the railway company.
It is conceded that the Construction company was an Iowa
corporation, and it is also conceded that the railway company was not an Iowa corporation. This controversy was,
'therefore, "wholly between -citizens of different States," and
could be "fully determined as between them," and was removable under the third clause of section two of the act of March
3 188-7, (as corrected by act of August 13, 1888,) on application of the defendant railway company. This branch of the
suit was for the benefit of the Construction company, and for
the purposes of jurisdiction "should be regarded a suit in the
name of the party for whose benefit it is brought." -Maryland
v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490.
V. The action of the complainant arose under the laws of
the United States, and involved a Federal question, and for
that reason wa removable to the Circuit Court on the petition
and application of the railway company-.
VI. The Supreme Court of tho" State had no jurisdiction
over the cause; the jurisdiction thereof was in the Federal
Court.
(a) The petition of each, the railway company and the Construction company, for removal to the Circuit Court divested
the Supreme Court of any jurisdiction to make any order or
enter any judgment or decree in the case.
(b) The plaintiff, John Fitzgerald, by instituting garnishment proceedings against the railway company in his action

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument against the Motion to Dismiss.

against the Construction company, himself placed the fund
in the hands of the railway company in acstodia legis, and
by that act precluded himself from invoking the assistance of
any other court to determine the amount due from the railway company to the Construction company.
(c) The order of revivor was a nullity.
VII. The court below, in its decision that it would not examine the order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause for
want of jurisdiction, in order to determine whether such proceeding was in accordance with the practice of that court,
committed error. By this decision it evaded the real questions which it was asked to decide, viz.:
(1) That the district court, in not removing the case into
the Circuit Court on the petition and bond of the defendants,
committed obvious error.
(2) That the order of the Circuit Court overruling the
motion to remand, and its judgment in favor of the defendant
on the plea to the jurisdiction, were conclusive of the issues
thus presented, until reversed or modified by the Supreme
Court of the United States.
(3) That the order of the Circuit Court remanding the
cause, was a nullity, because that court had no appellate
jurisdiction, and could not, at a subsequent term, reverse its
final orders and decrees.
VIII. The defendant, in the seventh paragraph of its
answer, alleged, in substance, that by the terms of the contract of April 28, 1886, between the Denver company and
the Construction company, it was, among other things, substantially provided that the Denver company should procure
the right of way for said line of railway to be constructed,
and would cause to be executed a proper mortgage upon said
right of way to secure the first mortgage bonds of said company, to the extent of $16,000 per mile.
The finding of the court below establishes the fact that the
railway company never complied with this act of Congress,
and the defendant pleads this failure to comply with this act
of Congress as a defence pro tanto to the claim set up by the
Construction company against it. It relies upon the act of

MiISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

573

Argument against the Motion to Dismiss.

Congress as the basis for that defence. Not only the act of
Congress, but the rules and regulations of the Department at
Washington, require, certain things to be done, as conditions
precedent to the right to enter upon the jpublic domain. The
right of way, by the first section of the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 152, 18 Stat.. 482, is only granted to certain railroad companies.; namely, those railroad companies "which shall have
filed with the Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles
of incorporation and due proof of its organization under the
same," etc.
It was claimed by the railway company that the Construction c6mpany assumed the burden of procuring the right of.
way, and to that end had control of the organization of the
Denver company, and that its failure to obtain the right of
way over the public lands in accordance with the act of Con-gress of 1875 deprived it of the right to call upon the railway
company to pay for that portion of the railway constructed
in violation of that act. This proposition was 'decided adversely to the railway company by the Supreme Court of the
State of Nebraska, and it was held, that notwithstanding the
said railway company had sustained damag6 by reason of
the failure of the construction company to have secured a
proper title to the right of way over the government land,
"no allowance of a counterclaim can le made as to the alleged
failure to comply with such requirements as were necessary
to acquire a railroad*right of way across government lands."
41 Nebraska, 451.
The court below could not ignore or disregard this defence
of the railway company, without deciding what effect must
or shbuld be given 'to the act of Congress of 1875. The only
right to construct the road over this land must, of necessity,
have been-extracted from this act of C9ngress. Kansas Pacifio
Raihway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; F-n Wyck v. Knevals,
306 U. S.360.
And it was contended that the mortgage of the Denver
company, attempting to encumber the fifteen miles of road so
constructed over the government lands, was void under this
act of Congress, and that in an accounting between the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

struction company and the railway company that fact should
be taken into consideration, and the railway company should
be protected, to the extent, at least, of the fifteen miles of
road to which the Construction company had never in any
manner acquired any title for the Denver comliany, which it
owned, dominated and controlled.
In the case of Anderson v. Carins,135 U. S. 483, 486,
this court said :
"To a bill for the specific performance of this contract the
defendants answered that the contract was void under the
homestead laws of the United States. Notwithstanding this
defence, so expressly stated, a decree of specific performance
was entered against them. Obviously this could not be so
entered, without adjudging such defence insufficient, and
denying to them the protection claimed under the homestead
laws.

.

.

.

If, under these provisions, such a contract is

void, then obviously no state statute can vitalize the contract
or deprive a party thereto of the protection afforded by the
public statutes. .

.

. Inasmuch, therefore, as no decree could

pass against the defendants without denying the protection asserted by them under the homestead laws,

.

.

.

it follows

that the case is one in which a right was specifically set up
and claimed under the statutes of the United States. .
Hence, the jurisdiction of this court cannot be doubted..
It is immaterial that the state court considered the case to be
within the provisions of certain state statutes. The grasp of
the Federal statute must first be released. The construction
and scope of that are Federal questions, in respect to which
the party who claims under such statute, and whose claim is
denied, has the right to invoke the judgment of this court."
MR.CHIEF JusTion FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court
Was any title, right, privilege or immunity under the
Constitution or any statute of, or authority exercised under,

the United States, specially set up or claimned by plaintiff in
error, denied by the decision of the state courtI

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

575

Opinion of the Court.

An assignment of errors cannot be availed of to import
questions into a cause which the record does not show were
raised and passed on in the court below, but we may refer to
such assignment by way of convenience to ascertain the contentions of'plaintiff in error.
Of the errors assigned here those which do not involve
matters purely within the jurisdiction of the state courts may
be grouped as follows:
That the Supreme Court of Nebraska erred First. In that the court decided against a right set up by
plaintiff in error, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1875,
entitled "An act granting to railroads the right of way through,
the public lands of the United' States," 18 Stat. 482, c. 152,
by its refusal to allow damages for the failure of the Construe-,
tion company to properly comply with the act. ,
econd. In that the court in maintaining jurisdiction decided
against the claim of plaintiff in ' error that by reason of process of garnishment in attachment against the Missouri' Pacific company, in the action brought by Fitzgerald against
the Construction company to recover an amount alleged to.
be due him individually, in the state court and removed into
the Circuit Court, the Circuit Court acquired exclusive jurisdiction and custody of the fund or moneys due from the
Missouri -Pacific company to the Construction company, and
of any controversy in respect thereof.
Third. In that the court in appointing a receiver of, the
Construction company to collect the amount of the decree
against the Missouri Pacific company, and disburse the same
under the direction of the court; decided against, the claim of
plaintiff in error that a receiver appointed by the Circuit
Court in the cause therein pending in favor of the Kausas
and Colorado Pacific Railway'Company and against the Construction company was entitled to the possession of the latter's
assets.
ourt. In that the court in exercising jurisdiction, notwithstanding the cause -had been wrongfully, remanded by
the'Circuit Court, decided against'the claim*of plaintiff in
error that the cause had been properly' removed. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

herein also that the court in maintaining jurisdiction decided
against the claim of plaintiff in error that the state district
court erred in denying its application to remove.
1. We repeat what we said in CaliforniaPowder IForks v.
Davis, 151 U. S. 389, 393, that "it is axiomatic that, in order
to give this court jurisdiction on writ of error to the highest
court of a State in which a decision could be had, it must .appear affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented for decision by the highest court of the State having
jurisdiction, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was actually decided or
that the judgment as rendered could not have been given
without deciding it. And where the decision complained of
rests on independent ground, not involving a Federal question
and broad enough to maintain the judgment, the writ of error
will be dismissed by this court without considering any Federal question that may also have been -presented." Eustis v.
Bolles, 150 U. S.361, and cases cited.
In the case at bar, the state court did not decide a Federal
question in this connection, but its decision rested on an independent ground broad enough to sustain the judgment.
The contention of plaintiff in error was that, although the
contract between the Denver company and the Construction
company required the Denver company to secure the right
of way, it was understood that when the Missouri Pacific
company and the Construction company entered into their
contract the Construction company should use the name of
the Denver company, exercise its power of eminent domain,
comply with the act of Congress, and secure the right to build
the road over the public lands; that the Construction company
failed to secure the lawful right of way as to a portion of the
road; that the Missouri Pacific company should be allowed a
deduction for each and every mile so situated; and that the
controversy in this regard depended upon a right construction of the act of Congress. It would seem that this dispute
between the parties turned on whether the Construction company had failed in its duty to the Missouri Pacific company,
and not on any difference between them as to the proper

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

577

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of the act, but it is sufficient to say that the validity
of the act of Congress was not questioned, and that the decision of the state courts denied no right claimed under it. The
finding of fact was that about fifteen-miles of road was laid
out over government land, and that no'maps were filed with
the Secretary of the Interior, showing the linesof way thereon,
though they were filed with the local land officers. In .Real
v. Holister, 20 iNebraska, 112, it was decided that in an action
for breach of the covenant for quiet enjoyment, the plaintiff
must allege and prove that he had been turned out of possession, or had yielded to a 'paramount title, and, applying that
doctrine in this case, the state courts held that the Missouri
Pacific company could not maintain its claim for damages,
because its possession had. not been disturbed or its title questioned. Fitzgerald v. Fitzgerald &c. Con eruocton Co., 41
:Nebraska, 374, 451.
2. The answer and plea of the Missouri Pacific company
to Mrs. Fitzgerald's petition for an order of revivor and the
appointment of a receiver filed January 29, 1895, set up that
on'December 24, 1888, which was the Same day that he instituted this suit as a stockholder, Fitzgerald brought an action
against the Construction company to recover an amount
alleged to be due him; that notice of garnishment was served
on the Missouri Pacific company; that the cause was then
removed into the Circuit Court, and there Fitzgerald recovered
judgment; and that control over the indebtedness, of the
Missouri Pacific company to the Construction company and
of the accounting between them was thus transferred to the
Circuit Court.
The matter of the garnishment proceedings was referred
to in the original answer of the Missouri Pacific company
filed in, this cause January 19, 1889, but the position now
taken was put forward for the first time in the answer and
plea to Mrs. Fitzgerald's petition in the Supreme Court.
Apart, however, from the objection that the course of proceedings could not be obstructed in this way at so late a date
and in the court of appellate jurisdiction, the position cannot
be maintained, for it was not made to appear but that the
voL. cLx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

notice of garnishment may have been issued and served after
jurisdiction had attached in this suit; and, moreover, it did
not appear that the garnishment process was prosecuted or
that any order or judgment charging the Missouri Pacific
company was rendered. Under sections 224 and 225 of the
Code of Nebraska, (Comp. Stat. Neb. 1895, 1170, 1171,) the
garnishee must deliver the property of the defendant in the
action or pay the money due, as disclosed on his examination, into court, or give bond that the amount shall be paid
or the property be forth-coming, as directed by the court, or if
the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or his disclosure is
not satisfactory, or he fail to comply with the order of the
court, etc., the plaintiff may proceed against him by action
and recover judgment as in other cases, defendant being sub.stituted as plaintiff when plaintiff is satisfied.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska disposed of this objection
by saying "that the attachment proceeding was evidently
abandoned in the Circuit Court, where the record shows an
ordinary judgment for damages, unaccompanied by an order
against the Missouri Pacific Company as garnishee."
We are unable to perceive that that court in declining to
entertain the objection so passed upon a Federal question as
to furnish ground for the interposition of this court.
3. By the amended petition filed May 4, 1891, the appointment of a receiver was prayed, but the judgment of the District Court was rendered December 28, 1891, for $429,573.43,
to be paid to the clerk of the court to abide its further order,
execution to issue on failure of payment.
The cause having been taken to the Supreme Court by
appeal, judgment was there rendered, June 26, 1894, for
$764,942.08, with interest from December 24, 1893, and the
cause remanded to the district court with instructions to
enforce the collection of said judgment, and to appoint a
receiver to collect and pay out the probeeds thereof and of
such other assets of the Construction company as might be
within the jurisdiction of the court. December 30, 1894,
pending an application for a rehearing, Fitzgerald died, and
Airs. Fitzgerald, hiaving been appointed special administratrix

NISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

579

Opinion of the Court.

of his estate, filed, January 15, 1895, her p'tition for an order
of revivor, and also that a receiver be appointed by the
Supreme Court.
January 5, 1895, a rehearing was granted, and on April 4,
the Supreme Court entered the order of revivor, and modified
its former judgment by reducing the amount to $300,906.33.
And on April 6, 1895, the court appointed a receiver, having
reviewed and overruled the Pacific company's objections
thereto presented by its answer and plea to Mrs. Fitzgerald's
application. 62 N. W. Rep. 899, 910.
July 2, 1891, the Kansas and Colorado Pacific Railway
Company .brought its action in the state district court
against the Construction company with garnishee notice to
the Missouri Pacific company, which cause was removed into
the Circuit Court on July 3,' 1891. January 12, 1895, the,
Kansas company filed an amended and supplemental complaint, and a receiver was appointed by the Circuit Court, the
district judge presiding.
As the state courts had been in possession of the P'es for years
before January 12, 1895, when, pending the modification by
the Supreme Court of its judgment' of June 26, 1894, the Circuit Court permitted-the amended and supplemental complaint
to be filed by the Kansas company against the Construction
company, and thereupon appointed a receiver, the Supreme
Court of Nebraska held that the rule that the court which
first acquires jurisdiction of the subject-matter of an action
will retain it until the controversy is finally determined
applied, and 'that the appointment,of a receiver by the Circuit
Court was under the circumstances ineffectual to divest the
control of the Supreme Court over the assets of the Construction company or defeat its right to enforce its judgment in the
accounting.
In our opinion the Supreme Court in so holding denied no
Federal right of the Missouri Pacific company.
4. It is contended that ,by its judgment the Supreme Court
affirmed the order of the state district court denying the application to remove, and that that order was erroneous. But
as the Missouri Pacific company, notwithstanding such denial,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

filed the record in the Circuit Court, and the -cause proceeded
in that court to final hearing, when it was remanded, and as
the state court in the meantime awaited the action of the
Circuit Court, the order worked no prejudice, and if any error
were committed in that regard, it became wholly immaterial.
5. We are thus brought to the remaining and most important question arising on this motion.
Under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 373,24 Stat.
552, 553, as rednacted for the purpose of correcting the enrolment, by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, 435,
is the order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the
state court open to review on this writ of error? If not, then
we cannot take jurisdiction to revise the proceedings of the
state court. Nor can the inquiry be affected by the fact that
a motion to remand had been previously made and denied.
That order was subject to reconsideration, as the question of
jurisdiction always is, until final judgment, and, indeed, it was
the duty of the Circuit Court under the statute, if it appeared
at any time that jurisdiction was lacking, to dismiss or remand
as justice might require. 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, ยง 5.
Prior to the passage of the act of March 3, 1875, just cited,
an appeal or writ of error would not lie to review an order of
the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed
because such an order was not a final judgment or decree.
This was expressly held in Railroad Company v. WTswall, 23
Wall. 507, decided at October term, 1874, and it was also
ruled that the remedy was by mandamus. But by the last
paragraph of section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18
Stat. 470, it was provided that "the order of said Circuit
Court dismissing or remanding said cause to the state court
shall be reviewable by the Supreme Court on writ of error or
appeal as the case may be."
By section 6 of the act of March 3, 1887, however, this
paragraph was expressly repealed, and by the last paragraph
of section 2 it was enacted that: "Whenever any cause shall
be removed from any state court into any Circuit Court of the
United States, and the Circuit Court shall decide that the
cause was improperly removed, and order the same to be re-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

581

Opinion of the Court.

manded to the state court from whence it came, such remand
shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or
writ of error from the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such case shall be allowed."
These provisions were referred to by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite in Aforeyv. Lookkart, 123. U. S. 56, 57, and the Chief
Justice said: "It is difficult to see what more could be. done to make the
action of the Circuit Court final, for all the purposes of the
removal, and not the subject of review in this court. First, it
is declared that there shall' be no appeal or writ of error in
such a case, and then, to make the matter doubly sure 'the
oily statute, which, ever gave the right of such an appeal or
writ of error is repealed."
It was subsequently decided in the case of -In ,e Pennsy7vania Company, 137 U. S. 451, 451, that the power to afford a
remedy by mandamus when a cause, removed from a state
court, is improperly remanded, was taken away by the acts
of March 3, 1887, and August 13, 1888.
Adverting to the clause, just quoted, from section 2 of those
acts, Mr. Justice Bradley said:
"In terms, it only abolishes appeals and writs of error, it is
true, and does not mention writs of mandamus; and it is unquestionably a general rule, that the abrogation of one remedy
does not affect inother. But in this case, we think it was the
intention of Congress, to make the judgment of the Circuit
Court remanding a cause to the state court final and conclusive. The general object of the act is to conitract the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The abrogation of the writ of
error and :appeal would lave had ,little effect in -putting an
end to the question of removal, if the writ of mandamus could
still have been sued out in this court. It is true that the general supervisory power of this court over inferior jurisdictions
is of great moment in a public point of view, and should not,
upon light grounds, be, deemed to be taken away in any case.
Still, although the writ of- mandamus is notmentioned in the
section, yet the use of the words ' such remand shall be immediately carried into, execution,' in addition to the prohi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bition of appeal and writ of error, is strongly indicative of an
intent to suppress further prolongation of the controversy by
whatever process. We are, therefore, of opinion that the act
has the effect of taking away the remedy by mandamus as
well as that of appeal and writ of error."
We see no reason for reconsidering these conclusions and it
may be regarded as settled that an order of the Circuit Court
remanding a cause cannot be reviewed in this court by any
direct proceeding for that purpose.
If a state court proceeds to judgment in a cause notwithstanding an application for removal, its ruling in retaining the
case will be reviewable here after final judgment under ยง 709
of the Revised Statutes. Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S. 430.
If a case be removed to the Circuit Court and a motion to
remand be made and denied, then after final judgment the
action of the Circuit Court in refusing to remand may be
reviewed here on error or appeal. Gralves v. Corbin, 132
U. S. 571.
If the Circuit Court and the state court go to judgment,
respectively, each judgment is open to revision in the appropriate mode. The .Removal cases, 100 U. S. 457.
But if the Circuit Court remands a cause and the state
court thereupon proceeds to final judgment, the action of
the Circuit Court is not reviewable on writ of error to such
judgment.
A state court cannot be held to have decided against a
Federal right when it is the Circuit Court, and not the state
court, which has denied its possession.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska rightly recognized the
courts of the United States to be the exclusive judges of their
own jurisdiction and declined to review the order of the Circuit
Court.
As under the statute a remanding order of the Circuit Court
is not reviewable by this court on appeal or writ of error from
or to that court, so it would seem to follow that it cannot be
reviewed on writ of error to a state court, the prohibition
being that "no appeal or writ of error from the decision of
the Circuit Court remanding such cause shall be allowed."

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. FITZGERALD.

588

Opinion of the Court.

And it is entirely clear that a writ of error cannot be maintained under section 709 in respect of such an order where
the state court has rendered no decision against a Federal
right but simply accepted the conclusion of the Circuit Court.
We regard this result as intended by Congress, in effeotuation of the object of the act of March 3, 1887, to restrict the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court and to restrain the volume of
litigation, which, through the expansion of Federal jurisdiction
in respect to the removal of causes, had been pouring into the
courts of the 'United States. Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315 ;
In re Pennsylvania Company, 137 U. S. 451; Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, 467.
So far as the mere question of the forum was concerned,
Congress was manifestly of opinion that the determination of
the Circuit Court that jurisdiction could not be maintained
should be final, since it would be an uncalled for hardship to
subject the party who, not having sought the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, succeeded on the merits in the state court,
to the risk of the reversal of his, judgment, not because of
error supervening on the trial, but because a disputed question
of diverse citizenship had been erroneously decided by the
Circuit Court; while as to applicatipns for removal on the
ground that the cause arose under the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States, that this finality was equally
expedient as questions of the latter character if decided against
the claimant would be open to revision uhder: section 709,
irrespective of the ruling of the Circuit Court in that regard
in the matter of removal.
It must be remembered that when Federal questions arise
in causes pending in the state courts, those courts are perfectly
competent to decide them, and it is their duty to do so.
As this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan, in Robb
*v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 621, 637, said: "Upon the state courts,
equally with the courts of the Union, rests the- obligation to
guard, enforce, and protebt every right granted or secured by
the Constitution of the United States and the laws made in pursuance thereof, v~henever those rights are involved in any suit
or proceeding before them; for the judges of the-state courts

