INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION CO. v. GIBNEY.

211

Statement of the Case.

Where the charge of the trial judge takes the form of animated argument, the liability is great that the propositions of
law may become interrupted by digression, and so intermingled
with inferences springing from forensic ardor, that the jury.
are left without proper instructions; their appropriate prov-'
ince of dealing with the facts invaded; and errors intervene
which the pursuit of a different course would have avoided.
Judgment reversed and causm remanded, with a direotion to
set aside the verdict and granta new trial.

INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT
COMPANY v. GIBIEY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TER
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 99. Argued December 6,1895. -Decided December 16, 1895.

-

Where the record shows that the only matter tried and decided in the Circuit Court was a demurrer to a plea to the jurisdiction, and the petition
upon which the writ of error was allowed asked only for the review of
the judgment that the court had no jurisdiction of the action, the question of jurisdiction alone is sufficiently certified to this court, as required
by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5.
Under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of August 18;
1888, c. 866, a defendant, who enters a general appearance, in an action
between citizens of different States, thereby waives the right afterwards
to object that he or another defendant is not an inhabitant of the district
in which the action is brought.

Tmis was an action. at law, brought June 9, 1890, in the
Circuit. Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, by the Interior Construction and Improvement Company
against John C. Gibney and Harvey Bartley, copartners
under the name of J. C. Gibney and Company, and James B,
McElwaine and James B. Wheeler, upon a bond, by which
"J. C. Gibney & Co., as principals, and J. B. McElwaine
and J. B. Wheeler, as sureties, are holden and firmly bound,"-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

jointly and severally, to the plaintiff, in the sum of $20,000,
for the performance of. a contract made by "said J. C.
Gibney & Co." with the plaintiff.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiff was incorporated
under the laws of the State of New Jersey, and was a citizen
thereof; and that all the defendants were citizens and residents of the State of Indiana.
On June 19, 1890, the defendants Gibney, iMcElwaine and
Wheeler, by their attorney, entered a general appearance.
But Gibney never pleaded or answered; and the defendant
Bartley never appeared, or made any defence.
On September 19, 1891, McElwaine and Wheeler pleaded
in abatement that at the time of the bringing of this action,
and ever since, Gibney and Bartley were citizens of the State
of* Pennsylvania, and not citizens or residents of the State of
Indiana; and that, therefore, the court had no jurisdiction
of the case.
The plaintiff demurred to this plea, as not containing facts
sufficient to constitute a cause for the abatement of the action.
The plaintiff declining to plead further, but electing to stand
upon its demurrer to the plea, the court adjudged that the
plaintiff take nothing by its action, and that the defendant
recover costs.
The plaintiff thereupon presented a petition for the allowance of a writ of error "for the review of the judgment
heretofore rendered therein in favor of the defendants and
against the plaintiff, therein holding and deciding that this
court has no jurisdiction of said action;" and assigned, as
errors, that the Circuit Court erred, 1st, in overruling the
plaintiff's demurrer to the plea in abatement; 2d, in sustaining the plea in abatement, and holding that the court
had no jurisdiction of the cause; 3d, in entering judgment
in favor of the defendants and against the plaintiff on the
plea in abatement, and dismissing and quashing the proceedings. The writ of error was thereupon allowed by the
judge presiding in the Circuit Court.
.Mr. John, C. Donnelly for plaintiff in error.

INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION CO. v. GIBIEY.

219

Opinion of the Court.

N6 appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JuSTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The record shows that the only matter tried and decided
in the Circuit Court was a demurrer to the plea to the juris-'
diction; and the petition, upon which the writ of error was
allowed, asked- only for the review of the judgment that the
court had no juris'diction of the action. The question of
jurisdiction alone is thus sufficiently certified to this court,
as required by the act of Maich 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5. 26 Stat.
828; In re Lehigh Co., 156 U. S. 322; Shields v. Coleman,
157 U. S. 168.
The act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of
August 13, i888, c. 866, confers upon the Circuit Courts of the
United States original jurisdiction of all civil actions, at common law or in equity, between citizens of different States, in
which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and
coits, the sum or value of $2000 ; and provides that "where
the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is
between citizens of different Stites, suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence'of either the plaintiff or the
defendant." 24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 433.
The Circuit Courtd of the United States are thus vested with
general jurisdiction of civil actions, involving the requisite
pecuniary value, between citizens of different States. Diversity of citizenship is a condition of jurisdiction, and, when
that does not appear upon the record, the court, of its own
motion, will order the action to be dismissed.. But the provision as to the particular district in which the action shall be
brought does not touch the general jurisdiction of the court
over such a cause between such parties; but affects only the
proceedings taken to bring the defendant within such jurisdiction, and is a matter of personal privilege, which the defendant
may insist upon, or may waive, at his election; and the defeidant's right to object that an action, within the general jurisdiction of the court, is brought in the wrong district, is waived

OCTOBER TERM, 1895,
Opinion of the Court.

'by entering a general appearance, without taking the objection.
Gracie v. Palmer,8 Wheat. 699; Toland v. Svrague, 12 Pet.
300, 330; Excparte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, 378 ; St. Louis
& San Francisco Railway v. .McBride,141 IT. S. 127; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 206; Texas & Pacific
Railway v. Saunders, 151 U. S. 105; Central Trust Co. v.
.McGeorge, 151 U. S. 129; Southern Express Co. v. Todd, 12
U. S. App. 351.
In Smith v. -Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, this court held that the
provision of the act of 1888, as to the district in which a suit
between citizens of different States should be brought, required
such a suit, in which there was more than one plaintiff or more
than one defendant, to be brought in the district in which all
the plaintiffs, or all the defendants, were inhabitants.
When there are several defendants, some of whom are, and
some of whom are not, inhabitants of the district in which the
suit is brought, the question whether those defendants who
are inhabitants of the district may take the objection, if the
non-resident defendants have not appeared in the suit, has
never been decided by this court. Strong reasons might be
given for holding that, especially where, as in this case, an
action is brought against the principals and sureties on a
bond, and one of the principals is a non-resident and does not
appear, the defendants who do come in may object, at -the
proper stage of the proceedings, to being compelled to answer
the suit.
But in the present case it is unnecessary to decide that
question, because one of the principals and both sureties, being
all the defendants who pleaded to the jurisdiction, had entered
a general appearance long before they took the objection that
the sureties were citizens of another district. Defendants who
have appeared generally in the action cannot even object that
they were themselves inhabitants of another district, and, of
course, cannot object that others of the defendants were such.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to
sustain the demurrerto'the plea, and for further Proceed
ings not inconsistent with this opinion.

