CARVER v. -UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

had taken out his first papers at the time of the depredation,
and therefore that when he took out his final papers citizenship related back, and he was entitled, for all the benefits of
this act, to claim the privileges of citizenship from the date
of his first papers. But there is; nothing in his petition 'to
show when he took them out, and therefore the contention,
if it had any foundation in law,'has none in fact. It is true,
mention is Made in the opinion of the Court of Claims of the
time of taking out his first papers, but we cannot act upon
any such statement, but must be governed by.the averments
of the petition.
We see nothing else in the record which requires comment.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was correct, and it is
Affirmied.

CARVER v. UNITED. STATES.
ERROR TO THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARIKANSAS.
No. 21. Submitted November 20, 1895. -Decided

Janutry 18, 1896.

The plaintiff in error was indicted, tried, and convicted of murder by shootIng. Among the evidence for the prosecution, admitted under objections
and excepted to, were: (1) A declaration in writing by the murdered
person, made after the shooting, and, as claimed, under a sense of impending death. This was offered in chief. (2) The statement of a
witness, offered in rebuttal, that, 'on a latef-day and before her death the
murdered person said that her former statement was true. Held,
(1) That it was satisfactorily established that the written statement
of the victim was made under the impression of almost immediate dissolution, and that it was therefore properly admitted;
(2) That, as it did not appear whether at the time when ihe later statement was made she spoke under the admonition of her approaching
end, or anticipated recovery, it was Improperly admitted;
-(8) That the evidence so offered in rebuttal was not legitimate rebutting
testimony.

F .N Carver was 'convicted of the murder of Anna Maledon in the Circut Court of the United States for the Western

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

District of Arkansas, and sentenced to be hanged, whereupon
he sued out this writ of error.
The fatal wound was inflicted, by the discharge of a pistol
on the night of March 25, 1895, at Muscogee, Creek Nation,
in the Indian country, but the death occurred at Fort Smith,
Arkansas, May 19, 1895.
In addition to other evidence, there was testimony tending
to show that Carver and the deceased were attached to each
other; that he was very drunk on the night of the homicide,
and that he was in the habit of carrying a pistol, which he
was flourishing at that time. A declaration in writing in
respect of the circumstances attendant upon the commission
of the act, made by the deceased March 27, 1895, was admitted in evidence against objection as made under a sense
of impending death.
The testimony of the clerk of the court, Wheeler, to the
effect that the deceased, after she was brought to Fort Smith,
which was April 14, 1895, said that her former statement was
true, was admitted subject to an exception because no proper
foundation was laid for its admission.
Exceptions were also taken to certain parts of the charge.
.Mr. William M. Craven for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assitan Attorney General Dickin8oA for defendants
in error.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
While in the admission of the declarations of the victim as
to the facts of a homicide the utmost caution must be exercised to the end that it be satisfactorily established that they
were made under the impression of almost immediate dissolution, we think that the evidence of the state of mind of
Anna Maledon, in that particular, when the declaration of
March 27, 1895, was made, and which we need not recapitulate, was sufficient to justify the Circuit Court in admitting

OARVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
it. Matto v. United States, 146 U. S. 140, 151. But the
testimony of Wheeler stands on differefit ground and we are
of opinion should not have been admitted.
In answer to leading questions, the witness said that he
saw Anna Maledon. after she was brought to Fort .Smith;
that he asked her whether the declaration of March 27, 1895,
was true; and that she replied, "it was, in every particular."
The deceased received the fatal wound March 25, and her
statement of March 27, 1895, was admitted as a, dying declaration. The interview with Wheeler was on- or after April
14, 1895, and whether she then spoke under the' admonition
of her approaching end or anticipated recovery does not
appear.
It has been held that a declaration is admissible if made
while hope lingers, if it is afterwards ratified when hope is
gone, -Beg. v.' SteeZe, 12 Cox 0. 0. 168, or if made when the
person is without hope, though afterwards he regains confidence. State v. Tilghman, 11 'Ired. Law, 513; Swisher v.
Commonwealth, 26 Grattan, 963; 1 Greenl. Ev. (15th. ed.)
158, note a. But the repetition of a dying declaration cannot itself be admitted as a reiteration -of the alleged facts if
made when hope has been regained. Nor can we perceive
that this is otherwise, because the record states that Wheeler
was sworn "in rebuttal." Rebutting evidence is evidence in
denial of some affirmative case or fact which defendant has
attempted to prove. Our attention has been called to no attempt on behalf of defendant below to prove that Anna Maledon made on her deathbed, after her declaration of March 27,
any retraction thereof, or any statement inconsistent with it,
if evidence to that effect would have justified the introduction
of this testimony as tending to rebut it.
It is true that counsel for plaintiff in error rested their objection on the ground that no foundation for the admission' of
the testimony was laid. But while the omission to challenge
the evidence as not properly in rebuttal may have waived the
mere order of proof, this did not concede that the want of
foundation could be excused for any reason. The contention
was that the foundation must be laid,, and that covered suf-

