VAN WAGENEN v. SEWALL.
Statement of the Case.

the laws of the United States. We may ad& in this connection that, as it clearly appears that thb collector had no authority to order the goods to be disinfected, we, think the Court
of Appeals was correct in holding that his somewhat ambiguous order of June 9, directing that the goods should be sent
to the Baltic stores for disinfection, should be considered as an
order to send the goods for disinfection, in case such disinfection were ordered by the health officer. The disinfection, if
ordered at all, was ordered by the health officer, and .the
charges for this are all for which the defendants were held
liable. Whether such ordeor was ever given by -the health
officer was a question solely within the jurisdiction of the
state court.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Diemimeed.

VAN WAGENEN v. SEWALL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRIOT OF FLORIDA.
lNo. 140. Argued aid submitted Decermber 20, i895. -

eclded January 6, 1896.

As this appeal was taken long after the act establishing the Circuit Courts
of Appeals went ifito effect, and as there is an entire absence of a certificate of a question of jurisdiction, the appeal is dismissed for want of
jurisdiction. In re Lehigh Mining Co., 156 U. S. 322, and Shields v. Coleman,. 157 U. S. 628, distinguished from this case.
Even if "an examination of the record would have disclosed a question of
jurisdiction, which is very doubtful, this, court cannot be required to
search the record for it; as it was the object of the fifth section of the
act of 1891 to have the question of jurisdiction plainly and distinctly
certified, or at least to have it appear so clearly in tie decree of the
cdurt below that no other question was involved, that no further examination of the record would be necessary.

THIS was a petition by Sarah Van Wagenen and others for
the review and reversal of. certain proceedings in the case
of John-M. Hfanson v. The United States, and of a decree
VOL. CLx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

rendered therein, ordering a survey of the Hanson or Miles
grant, made by the Surveyor General upon the petition of one
Greeley, assignee in bankruptcy of Hanson, which said survey
had been approved by a decree of the District Court of April
13, 1889.
The petition set forth that the petitioners were the owners
in fee of an undivided one third interest in this grant, which
contained sixteen thousand or more acres, situate in the county
of Dade, which undivided interest originally belonged to one
Hedrick, one of the original petitioners in the case of Hanson
v. United States; and that petitioners were also the owners in
fee of the whole grant by purchase from the State of Florida;
that such grant was originally made by the Spanish government to one Samuel Miles on July 19, 1813, was surveyed and
set off to him in 1815, and in 1840 was confirmed to Hanson,
Segui, and Hedrick; that upon appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, the title of the claimants, and the decree
of the court below were affirmed (16 Pet. 196); but that the
Supreme Court set aside the survey as irregular, and ordered
the Surveyor General of the Territory to make a new survey,
and remanded the case to the Superior Court of East Florida
for that purpose; that in accordance with such mandate and
decree of the Supreme Court a new survey was made, returned to the land office of the Territory, and the grant then
platted from said survey; that such survey was subsequently
confirmed and approved of bythe said Superior Court, whose
decree in that regard has never been reversed, appealed from,
or set aside, but still remains in force; and that, by such
action and decree, that court exhausted all its jurisdiction
under the acts of Congress, and could neither do nor perform
any other matter or thing relative thereto.
The petitioners further averred that, in 1885, one Greeley,
claiming to be assignee in bankruptcy of Hanson, and one
Agatha O'Brien, claiming to be the administratrix of Bernardo Segui, also claiming an undivided one third interest in
the grant, did by petition in the said cause of Hanson v.
United States, to the District Court for the Northern District
of Florida, allege, as well as in the petition of Rufus K. Sewall,

VAN WAGMEIN v. SEWAILL.
Statement of the Case.

who was made a party thereto, that said grant had never
been surveyed, nor had any survey ever been confirmed or
approved, as directed by the Supreme Court and the Superior
Court of the Territory; and did pray that the survey might
be had in accordance with the decree of such courts; and that,
in pursuance of such petition, the District Court, in 1885,
ordered the then Surveyor General to make such survey,
which was in fact made, returned to the court in accordance
with this order, and in 1889 was confirmed -all without
notice to the petitioners- and as they averred, beyond the
jurisdiction and power of the court; that the same was invalid, by reason of the fact that the court had no jurisdiction
in the premises, having exhausted all jurisdiction and powers
it possessed under its previous decree confirming the survey
made in 1851; that the allegations contained in the petition
of Greeley were untrue, in averring that no survey had been
made ; that neither the rApresentatives of Segui, nor Greeley,
as assignee of Hanson, had any right in the grant; that the
new survey was unjust to the petitioners, in that it greatly
changed the lines of the original survey, and reduced largely
the area of the grant, and in other respects affected the just
rights of the petitioners.
Wherefore petitioners prayed that all of such proceedings
for the new survey be vacated and set aside as absolutely null
and void, and for further relief, etc.
On January 6, 1892, Sewall appeared by his solicitors, and
demurred to the petition upon two grounds: first, that the
record and proceedings attached to and made a part of the
petition showed that a proper and final decree had been made
in the cause, adjudicating fully all the issues made therein;
and, second, that the court had no power or jurisdiction to
grant the.petitioners the relief prayed for-therein.
This demurrer having been sustained by the court, the petitioner Sarah Van Wagenen prayed for a rehearing, upon the
ground that the final decree made in 1851 fully and finally
disposed of the cause, and "exhausted the jurisdiction of the
court, etc. ; and that the court had no power, by proceedings
taken in 1885, to order a resurvey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

This petition for a rehearing having been denied, petitioner
appealed to this court.
AMr. H. H. Buckman for appellants.
Mr. 1Rfus E. Sewall, appellee, in person submitted on his
brief.
M . JUSTiE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

As this appeal was taken long after the act of March 3,
1891, establishing the Court of Appeals, went into effect, it
should have been taken to the Court of Appeals of the Fifth
Circuit, unless the case be one within the fifth section of the
act, w-herein the jurisdiction of the court is in issue. In such
cases, however, "the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision."
There is an entire absence of such certificate in this case - an
absence which was held to be fatal to the appeal in JMaynard
v. .lecht, 151 U. S. 324; .Moran v. Hagerman, 151 U. S. 329;
Colvin v. J-acksonq.ille, 157 U: S. 368; and Davis & .Rankin
Building Company v. Barber, 157 U. S. 673. It is true that
iii
In re Lehigh -Min.and .Mfg.Co., 156 U. S. 322, we held
that the certificate was not necessary, inasmuch as it appeared
in tle decree that the question involved was only a question
of jurisdiction, and the judgment not only recited that the
court considered it had no jurisdiction of the case, and therefore dismissed it for want of jurisdiction, but the District Judge
certified in the bill of exceptions that it was "held that the
court did not have jurisdiction of the suit,, and ordered the
same to be dismissed," and, in the order allowing the writ of
error, certified in effect that it was allowed "upon the question of jurisdiction." So, also, in Shields v. Coleman, .157
U. S. 168, where the court below, granting the appeal, said,
"this appeal is granted solely upon the question of jurisdictioni" and made further provisions for determining what part
of the record should be certified to this court under the

VAN WAGENEN v. SEWALL.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal, we held this to be a sufficient certificate of a question
of jurisdiction under the act.
In this case, however, the only question of jurisdiction is
raised by the demurrer of Sewall to the petition, which is upon
two grounds; first, that a proper and final decree had been
made adjudicating all the issues in the cause; and second,
that the court had no power or jurisdiction to grant the petitioners relief. This, however, is in substance only a general
demurrer to the bill for the want of equity.
In the petition of Sarah Van Wagenen for a rehearing it is
alleged that a final decree was rendered in 1851, fully and
finally disposing of the cause, which exhausted all the jurisdiction of the court, and that it was beyond its potver and jurisdiction to vacate the survey ordered by such decree by the
subsequent proceedings taken in 1885. It is very doubtful
whether the question thus raised by her, of the authority to
vacate and set aside. a previous decree of the court, did nct
involve a power to exercise a jurisdiction alreidy vested rather
than a question of jurisdiction itself, within the meaning of
the act of March 3, 1891. Carey v. Houston & Texas Central
Railway, 150 U. S. 170, 180.
In any event, however, we cannot be required to search the
record to ascertain whether the petition was dismissed for the
want of equity, or for some other reason. Shields v. Coleman,
157 U. S. 168, 177. Indeed, it appears to have been the very
object of the fifth section of the act of 1891 to have the question of jurisdiction plainly and distinctly certified to us, or at
least to have it appear so clearly in the decree of the court
below, that no other question was involved, that no further
examination of the record would be necessary.
The appeal is accordingly

Dimissed,

