CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY AND WESTERN UIION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
'OIROIT.
No. 834. Argued October 18, 19, 1894. -Decided

November 18, 1895.

The objects which Congress sought to accomplish by the act of July 1, 1862,
c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, granting a subsidy to aid in the construction of both
a railroad and a telegraph line from the: Missouri River to the Pacific
Ocean, and by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356, amendatory
thereof, were the construction, the maintenance and the operation of
both a railroad and a telegraph line between those two points; the governmental aid was extended for the purpose of accomplishing all these
important results; and there is nothing in subsequent legislation to indicate a change of this purpose.
The provisions in those acts permitting the railroad company to arrange
with certain telegraph companies for placing their lines upon and along
the route of the railroad, and its branches, did not affect the authority of
Congress, under its reserved power, to require the maintenance and operation by the railroad company itself, through its own officers and employ~s, of a telegraph line over and along its main line and-branches.
VOL. CI -1

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.
An arrangement between the railroad company and the telegraph company,
such as was permitted by the 19th section of the act of July 1, 1862, and
by the fourth section of the act of July 2, 1864, c. 220, known as the
Idaho Act, could have no other effect than to relieve the railroad company from any present duty itself to construct a telegraph line to be
used under the franchises granted and for the purposes indicated by Congress. No arrangement of the character indicated by Congress could
have been made except in view of the possibility of the exercise by Congress of the power reserved to add to, or amend the act that permitted
such arrangement.
It was not competent for Congress under its reserved power to add to,
alter, or amend these acts to impose upon the railroad company duties
wholly foreign to the objects for which it was created or for which governmental aid was given, nor, by any alteration or amendment of those
acts, destroy rights actually vested, nor disturb transactions fully consummated. With the policy of such legislation the courts have nothing
to do.
The provision in the act of August 7, 1888, c. 772, 25 Stat. 382, requiring all
railroad and telegraph companies to which the United States have granted
subsidies, to "forthwith and henceforward, by and through their own respective corporate officers and employ~s, maintain and operate, for railroad, governmental, commercial and all other purposes, telegraph lines,
and exercise by themselves alone all the telegraph franchises conferred
upon them and obligations assumed by them under the acts making the
grants," is a valid exercise of the power reserved by Congress.
Since the passage of the act of July 24, 1866, c. 230, the provisions of which
were embodied in the Revised Statutes Title LXV, Telegraphs, no railroad company operating a post-road of the United States, over which
interstate commerce is carried on, can bind itself, by.agreement, to exclude from its roadway any telegraph company, incorporated under the
laws of a State, that has accepted the provisions of that act, and desires
to use such roadway for its line in such manner as will not interfere with
the ordinary travel thereon.
The agreement of October 1, 1866, between the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, and the Western Union Telegraph Company gave
the telegraph company the absolute control of all telegraphic business
on the routes of the railway company, and consequently tended to make
the act of July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221, ineffectual and was hostile to
the object contemplated by Congress; and, being thus in its essential
provisions invalid, it was not binding upon the railway company.
The agreements of September 1, 1869, and December 14, 1871, between the
Union lPacific Railroad Company and the Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph
Company were void.
The agreement of July 1, 1887, between the Union Pacific Railway Company
and the Western Union Telegraph Company is illegal, not only to the
extent it assumes to give to the telegraph company exclusive rights and
advantages in respect of the use of the way of the railroad company for

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAiLWAY.

3

Opinion of the Court.
telegraph purposes, but also because, in effect, it transfers to the telegraph company the telegraphic franc.hise granted it by the United States,
which was not permitted by the acts of Congress .deffiing,the obligations
of railroad companies that had accepted the bounty of the government.
While the United States might procecd by mandamus against the railway
company to compel-it to perform the duties imposed by its charter,.it has
the further right, in this suit, to ask the interposition of a court of equity
to compel a cancellation of the agreements under which the telegraph
company asserts rights inconsistent with the several acts of Congress,
and the final decree in duch a suit may require the railway company to
obey the directions of Congress as given in those acts.

Tins suit was commenced by the United States in the Circuit Court for theDistrict of iebraska. A decree was there
made giving.the plaintiff the relief it asked for. 50 Fed.
Rep. 28. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where the decree of the Circuit
Court was reversed. 19 U. S. App. 531. From that decree
the United States took this appeal. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
Mr. sozicitor General Maxwell for appellant.
M'. Rush Taggart for' the Western Union Telegraph Corn-.
pany, appellee.
.76'. John F. Dillon, for the Union Pacific Railway Company, appellee. Air. John.M. Thurston and Mr. Jeremiah X.
Wilson were on his brief.

MR. JUsTIoE RiARLA_ delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the United States against the
Union Pacific Railway Company and the Western Union Telegraph Company under the authority of the act of. Congress of
August 7, 1888, c. 772, .25 Stat. 382, supplementary to the act
commonly known as the Pacific Railroad act of July 1, 1862,
c. 120, 12.Stat. 489, and to the act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13
Stat. 356, and other .acts amendatory of the act of-1862.
By the first section of the above act of 1888j it is provided
that all railroad and telegraph companies to which the United
States have granted any subsidy in lands or bonds or loan of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

credit for the construction of either railroad or telegraph lines,
and which, by the acts incorporating them, or by any amendatory or supplementary act, were required to construct, maintain, or operate telegraph lines and all companies engaged in
operating such railroad or telegraph lines "shall forthwith
and henceforward, by and through their own respective corporate officers and employ~s, maintain, and operate, for railroad,
governmental, commercial, and all other purposes, telegraph
lines, -and exercise by themselves alone all the telegraph franchises conferred upon them and obligations assumed by them
under the acts making the grants as aforesaid."
The second section declares that any telegraph company, having accepted the provisions of Title LXV, Telegraphs, of the
Revised Statutes, which should extend its line to any station
or office of a telegraph line belonging to any one of the railroad or telegraph companies referred to in the first section,
shall have the right and shall be allowed "to. connect with the
telegraph line of said railroad or telegraph company to which
it is extended at the place where their lines may meet, for the
prompt and convenient interchange of telegraph business
between said companies; and such railroad and telegraph
companies, referred to in the first section of this act, shall so
operate their respective telegraph lines as to afford equal facilities to all, without discrimination in favor of or against any
person, company, or corporation whatever, and shall receive, deliver, and exchange business with connecting telegraph lines on
equal terms, and affording equal facilities, and without discrimination for or against any one of such connecting lines; and
such exchange of business shall be on terms just and equitable."
If any railroad or telegraph company referred to in the first
section, or any company oper ating such railroad or telegraph
line, refuses or fails, in whole or in part, to maintain and operate a telegraph line as provided in the act of 1888 and the acts
to which it is supplementary, "for the use of the Government
or the public, for commercial and other purposes, without discrimination," or refuses or fails to make or continue such arrangements for the interchange of business with any connecting
telegraph company, then, by the third section, application for

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

5

Opinion of the Court.

relief may be made to the Interstate Commerce Commission,
whose duty it shall be to ascertain the facts, and prescribe
such arrangement as will be proper in the particular case.
The fourth section is in these words: "In order to secure
and preserve to the United States the full value and benefit of
its liens upon all .the telegraph lines required to be constructed
by and lawfully belonging to said railroad and telegraph companies referred to in the first section of this act, and to have
the same possessed, used, and operated in conformity with the
provisions of this act and of the several acts to which this act
is supplementary, it is hereby made the duty of the Attorney
General of the United States, by proper proceedings, to prevent any unlawful interference with the rights and equities of
the United States under this act, and under the acts hereinbefore mentioned, and under all acts of Congress relating to such
railroads and telegraph lines, and to have legally ascertained
and finally adjudicated all alleged rights of all persons and.
corporations whatever claiming in any manner any control or
interest of any kind in any telegraph lines or property, or
exclusive rights of way upon the lands of said railroad companies, or any of them, and to have all contracts and provisions
of contracts set aside and annulled which have been unlawfully
and beyond their powers entered into by said railroad or telegraph companies, or any of them, with any other person, company, or corporation."
The fifth section subjects to fine and imprisonment any
*officer or agent of a company operating its railroads and telegraph lines who refuses or fails, in such operation and use, to
afford and secure equal facilities to the government and the
public, or to secure to each of said connecting telegraph lines
equal advantages and facilities in the interchange of business,
as provided for, without any discrimination whatever for or
adverse to the telegraph line of any or either of said connecting companies, or refuses to abide by or perform and carry
out within a reasonable time the order or orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The party aggrieved may also
sue the company, whose officer or agent violates the provisions
of the act, for any damages thereby sustained.

OCTOBER TER14 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

.The sixth section makes it the duty of all railroads and telegraph companies to report to the Interstate Commerce Commission in relation to certain matters, and to file with that
body copies of all contracts and agreements of every description between it and every other person or corporation in reference to the ownership, possession, maintenance, control, use,
or operation of any telegraph lines or property over -or upon
its rights of way.
The defendant, the Union Pacific Railway Company, is a
corporation formed by the consolidation (under the authority
of the above acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat.
489, and July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. c. 216, 356) of the following
companies: The Union Pacific Railroad- Company, incorporated by the act of July 1, 1862; the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company, formerly known as the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, which latter company succeeded to the
rights and powers of the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western
Railroad Company, a Kansas corporation that accepted the aid
provided by the act of July 1, 1862; and the Denver Pacific
Railway and Telegraph Company, a corporation of Colorado.
The present suit proceeds on the ground that the Union
Pacific Railway Company is conducting its business under certain contracts and agreements with the Western Union Telegraph Company that are not only repugnant to the provisions
of the above act of 1888, but are inconsistent with the rights
of the United States, and- in violation of the obligations
imposed upon the railway company by other acts of Congress.
The relief asked was a decree annulling those contracts and
agreements and compelling the railway company to maintain
and operate -telegraph lines on its -roadways, as required by
the act of 1888.
By the final decree of the Circuit Court it was adjudged,
among other things, that the following agreements be annulled
and held for naught:
An agreement of October 1, 1866, between the Union Pacific
Railway Company, Eastern Division, and the Western Union
Telegraph Company;
Two agreements, one of September 1, 1869, and one of

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

I

Opinion of the Court.

December 14, 1871, between the Union Pacific Railroad Company and the Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company, the
rights of the latter company having been acquired, as is
claimed, by the Western Union Telegraph Company; and,
An agreement of July 1, 1881, between the Union Pacific
Railway Company and the Western Union Telegraph Company. 50 Fed. Rep. 28.
It will be well, at this point, to refer to the principal parts
of the several agreements that were set aside and annulled
by the final decree of the Circuit Court.
By the agreement of October 1, 1866, between the Union
Pacific Railway. Company, Eastern Division, and the Western
Union Telegraph Company, the railway company agreed to
pay to the'telegraph company the cost of the telegraph poles
that had been erected by the latter company along the railroad
between Wyandotte and Fort Riley, except for such as- have
been already furnished and erected by said railway company;
and also the cost of the wire and insulators fot a telegraph line
with one wire, between those points, except for such distance
as the railroad company had already provided wires and
insulators; to furnish and dit.ribute along their road west of
Fort Riley, as fast as the same was completed, suitable poles
for a firstclass telegraph line, and wires and insulators for a
telegraph line with one wire; to supply and distribute suitable
telegraph-poles, as required from time to time ; to repair and
renew 'the line as might be necessary; to transport, free of
charge, for the telegraph company all persons engaged in and
material required for the construction, reconstruction, working,
repairing, and maintaining said telegraph line; and to furnish a
suitable telegraph office in the depot at Wyandotte, Kansas, free
of charge, and pay one-half of the salary of the operator in such
office, or so much thereof as was necessary to save the telegraph
company from loss at that office - such operator to be fully
qualified to do the business of the railway company, and to'be
appointed and his salary fixed by the parties to the contract.
The railway company ftirther stipulated "not to transport
any persons engaged in or property intended for the construction or repair of any other line of telegraph along their railway,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

except at the usual and regular rates charged by said railway
company for passengers and freight, nor give permission to nor
make any agreement with any other telegraph company to
construct or operate any telegraph line upon the lands or roadway of said railway company, without the consent in writing
of the telegraph company. The above agreed to by said railway company so far as it has the right to do so."
The telegraph company agreed, upon its part, that it would
erect poles, attach the insulators, and string the wire to be
furnished or paid for by the railway company, as provided,
as fast as each section of twenty miles of railroad was completed; that the first wire should belong to the railway company, and be for their use exclusively after the second wire was
put up, "but no commercial or paid business shall be transmitted by the railway company from any station where. the
telegraph company shall have an office, without the consent
of the latter;" that if the business of the railway company
should, in its opinion, require more than one wire, they might
appropriate another wire, upon paying to the telegraph company the cost of such wire on the poles, the telegraph company
to attach such other wire for the use of the company; that
the business of the railway company of every kind, and the
family, private, and social messages of its executive officers,
should be transmitted without charge between all telegraph
stations on the line of said roadway, and between all such stations and St. Louis, and over all other lines in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, and New Mexico, then owned or controlled, or
which might thereafter be owned or controlled, by the telegraph company, provided, so far as said lines in Colorado and
New Mexico were concerned, and the road or roads of the
Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, were at
the time in process of construction towards Santa F6 or Dewver, or both, all such business should be transmitted free of
charge over all other lines then or thereafter to be owned or
controlled by the telegraph company within the United States,
to an amount not exceeding four thousand dollars per annum,
with a rebate of one-half of regular tariff charges for all in
excess of that amount; that until a second wire was put up,

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

9

Opinion of the Court.

both parties could use the first *ire, the business of the railway
company having preference; and if either wire was interrupted
or required by the United States, both parties might use the
other one as far as practicable, but without delay or charge
to the railway company; that the telegraph company should
furnish all main batteries required for the efficient working of
the telegraph line provided for, and keep the line in good working order, without expense to the railivay company, except for
the materials which the latter had agreed. to supply.
Again: That "the railway company may establish, at
their -own expense, as many offices as they require, and at allplaces where the telegraph company has no separate office
the employ~s of the railway company shall, so long as it may
not interfere with the business of said railway company,
receive, transmit, and deliver such commercial or paid business
as may be offered at the tariff rates of the telegraph company,
provided such paid business does not amount to enough to pay
the expenses of a. separate telegraph office, and shall account
for and pay over to the latter, monthly, the amount thereof
at such rates; and concerning such business, all rules, regulations, and orders of. the telegraph company applicable thereto
shall be observed; but said railway company shall not be
amenable in any way to said telegraph company for the acts
or operations of said agents, otherwise than to remedy the
difficulty in future;" that each party, at its own expense,
should have the right to add as hany lines as its business
required; that it would perform without charge for the railway company what should be decided by competent authority
to be its telegraphic obligations to the Government of the
United States; and that a telegraph line should be constructed
on the road of the railway company from Leavenworth to
Lawrence at such time, between May 31, 1867; and September
1, 1868, as that company might decide, and upon the same
terms and conditions as that west of Fort Riley.
By the agreement of September 1, 186%,between the Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company and the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, the railroad company, in consideration of
thirty-three thousand shares of the stock of the telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

company, (for an increase of whose stock the agreement made
provision,) demised and leased to that telegraph company "all
its telegraph line, wires, poles, instruments, offices, and other
property by it possessed appertaining to the business of telegraphing for the purpose of sending messages and doing a
general telegraphic business," to have and to hold during the
whole term of the charter of the telegraph company, and any
renewals thereof, subject to the rights of the United States,
as set forth in the charter of the railroad company, and on
condition that the telegraph company should fully perform
all duties that were or might be imposed upon the railroad
company by its charter or by the laws of the United States.
It was further stipulated in that agreement that the telegraph company should proceed at once, as soon as arrangements
were perfected for extending its line to San Franbisco, to put
two additional wires, fully equipped and furnished, on tho poles
demised along the whole length of its line; the railroad company to maintain and keep in repair such poles, wires, and
equipments at its expense during the period of such demise,
until from age or other cause they were required to be renewed, in which case the telegraph company should meet
the cost of renewal; that the railroad company should at its
own expense employ, during a period of twenty-fve years,
suitable persons to operate said telegraph at its own stations,
other than at Omaha and such other stations as required, for the
business of both parties, operators in addition to those needed
by the railroad company; that the railroad company.should
have the right free of expense to the constant and perpetual
use of two of the wires when required for its business, and the
free use for its business of the whole line of telegraph, which
should then or thereafter belong to or be controlled or operated by the telegraph company, to and from all parts of the
United States, for all purposes connected with the management of the road or its business; that the telegraph company
should have such preferential privileges and facilities for its
business as are usually granted by railroad companies in contracts of connection with telegraph companies; and that the
railroad company should "afford all other telegraph corn-

UNITED STA.TES v. tION PAOIFIC RAILWAY.

i

Opinion of the Court.

panies only such facilities as by law they now are or may
hereafter be required to afford as common carriers or otherwise,
in which shall not be included the privilege of using hand cars
or of stopping trains except at regnlar stations, or transporting the officers or servants of such companies, except on regular passenger trains at regular rates of fare, or of transporting
material for such companies or persons (other than the parties
of the first part) except on regular freight trains and at the
usual rates of freight, -unless the facilities" aforesaid, or some
of them, shall be required by law to be afforded such conipanies or persons."
. These companies entered into a supplementary agreement
on the 14th day of December, 1871, by which the original contract was modified in certain particulars, that need not be
set out, and which provided that for all the purposes of both
the original and supplementary contract the road of the rail'road company "domised by said original contract shall be
deemed and taken to terminate at the junction of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company with the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, as now established, which -junction is at a point.
about five. miles West of Ogden, apd all the rights of the
supplement shall be made to*
parties under said contract and
'
conform to this modification.i
The agreement between the Western Union Telegraph
Company and the Union Pacific Railway Oompan of July
1, 1881, recites that the former corporation had acquired all
*the property, rights, and franchises of the Atlanticand Pacific
Telegraph Company, and was in possession of and operating
a separate line of poles and wires along the main line of the
Union Pacific Railway Company between Omaha and Ogden;
that the parties were then, and for some time past had been,
operating lines of telegraph along various roads of the railway
company, under sundry contracts, thirteen in number, including the above agreements of 1866, 1869, and 1871, and made
between the railway company or companies -formerly in possession of lines of railroad, then controlled by and forming
part of that company, and the Western Union Telegraph
Company, or other telegraph companies that had become

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

merged into the latter company; and that it was desirable to
terminate existing disputes, and embody the agreement of the
parties in one new contract, in lieu of said existing contract.
The expressed purpose of this agreement was to provide
telegraph facilities for the parties, and to maintain and operate the lines of telegraph along all the railway company's
roads in the most economical manner in the interest of both
parties, as well as to fulfil the obligations of the railway company to the Government of the United States and the public,
in respect to the telegraphic service required by the act of
July 1, 1862, and its amendments.
Among other provisions of the above agreement are the
following:
"Third. The railway company, so far as it legally may,
hereby grants and agrees to assure to the telegraph company
the exclusive right of way on, along, upon, and under the line,
lands, and bridges of the railway company and any extensions
and branches thereof, for the construction, maintenance, operation, and use of lines of poles and wires, or either of them,
or underground or other system of communication for commercial or public uses or business, with the right to put up
from time to time, or cause to be put up or constructed
under the provisions of this agreement, such additional
wires on its own or the railway company's poles or such
additional lines of poles and wires or either as well on its
bridges as on its right of way, or to construct such underground lines as the telegraph company may deem expedient,
doing as little damage and causing as little inconvenience to
the railway company as is practicable, and the railway company will not transport men or material for the construction
or operation of a line of poles and wire or wires or underground
or other system of communication in competition with the
lines of the telegraph company, party hereto, except at and
for the railway company's regular local rates,, nor will it furnish for any competing line any facilities or assistance that
it may lawfully withhold, nor stop its trains, nor distribute
material therefor at other than regular stations': Provided
alway8, That in protecting and defending the exclusive rights

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC .RAILWAY.

13

Opinion of the Couit.

given by this contract, the telegraph company may use and
proceed in the name of the railway company, but shall indemnify and save harmless the railway company from any and
all damages, costs, charges, and legal expenses incurred therein
t
or thereby.
"1Fourth. It is mutually understood and agreed thatall of
the telegraph lines and wires covered by this contract, whether
belonging to or used by the telegraph company or the railway
company for the purpose of this contract, as herein provided,
shall form part of the general system of the telegraph company. The railway company further agrees that its employs
shall transmit over the lines owned, controlled, or operated
by the parties hereto, all commercial' telegraph business
offered at the railway company's offices, and shall accouiit
to the telegraph company exclusively for all of subh business
and the receipts thereon, as provided herein. No employ6 of
the railway company shall, while in its service, be employed
by or have any connection with any other telegraph com-.
pany than the telegraph company party hereto, and the
telegraph company shall have the exclusive right to the occupancy of and connection with the railway company's depots
or station houses for commercial or public telegraph purposes
as against any other telegraph company: Provided,That if
any person or party, or any officer of the Government, tender
a message for transmission over the railway telegraph lines
between Council' Bluffs and Ogden at any railway telegraph
station between those points and require that the service be
rendered by the railway company, the operator to whom the
same is tendered shall receive and forward the same accordingly at rates to be fixed by the railway company to the point
of destination if not beyond its owh lines. If the destination
of said message be beyond said railway company's lines, the
telegraph company, when receiving the same at the point at
which it leaves the said railway lines, may demand the prepayment of tolls for the service'of forwarding the message on
its own lines: Provided,however, That the local receipt§ of
the railway company on such messages shall be divided between the parties hereto in the same manner and subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the same conditions as provided in the, tenth clause of this
agreement."
"Sixth. Each party hereto shall pay one-half of the entire
cost of all poles, wires, insulators, tools, and other material
used for the maintenance, repair, and renewal or reconstruction
of existing lines and wires "along all of the railway company's
railroads, and for the construction, maintenance, repair, and
renewal or reconstruction of such additional wires or lines
of poles and wires as may be required for commercial or railroad telegraph purposes along said railroads, and along future
branches or extensions thereof, and along new railroads constructed or acquired by the railway company, until the total
number of wires shall amount to three for the exclusive use
of each party hereto between Council Bluffs and Ogden, two
for the exclusive use of each party hereto between Kansas
City and Denver, and one for the exclusive use of each party
hereto on all other portions of the railway company's railroads, branches, and extensions. Each party hereto shall
pay the entire cost of the construction, maintenance, repair,
and renewal or reconstruction of wires for its exclusive
use in excess of the number hereinbefore mentioned. The
material of the telegraph company for additional wires to be
transported free of charge by the railway company over its own
lines, as hefeinafter provided. The telegraph company agrees
to furnish at its own expense all blanks and stationery for commercial or other public telegraph business, and. all instruments,
main and local batteries, and battery material for the operation
of its own and the railway company's wires and offices. . . .
"Seventh. . . . The telegraph company agrees to fur-

nish, free of charge, for the railroad business of the railway company, a direct wire connecting the railway company's office
in Omaha, Nebraska, with its office in Kansas City, Missouri,
and with the, railway company's offices at intermediate railroad stations of the railway company along the Missouri River,
including Council Bluffs; and the telegraph company will
receive, transmit, and deliver, free of charge, at and from its
offices at said intermediate stations of the railway company,
such messages on the railroad business of the railway company

UNITED STATES -.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

j5

Opinion of the Court.

as may be offered by its agents and officers for points, on. the
railway company's roads, provided that the telegraph-company
may use said wire for the transaction of commercial or public
telegraph business when not in use for railroad business.
I"Eighth. All messages of the officers and agents of the
railway company pertaining to its railroad business may be
transmitted free of charge between all telegraph stations on,the
lines of its various railroads over wires set apart, for railroad
business. . ... It is understood and agreed that the' free
telegraphic service herein provided for is for the transmission
of messages concerning the operation and business of the railway company's railroads, and shall not be extended to messages ordering sleeping car, -parlor car, or steamer berths, or
other adcommodations for customers of the railway company,
the tolls on which messages should properly be chargeable,4to
such customer .
"Ninth. The railway company agrees to transport free of
charge over its railroads, upon application of the superintendent or other officer of the telegraph company, all officers of
the telegraph company when travelling on its business, and all
employ~s of the telegraph company when travelling on the
telegraph company's business connected with or pertainingto
the lines or wires and offices along any of the railway company's railroads. And the railway company further agrees to
transport and distribute free of charge along the line of any
and all its railroads all poles and othermaterials for the ,construction, maintenance, operation, repair, or reconstruction of
the lines and wires covered by this ag~eexhent, dnd of such additional wires or lines of poles and wires as may be ,erected
under and in pursuance of the provisions of this agreement.
Also all material and supplies for the establishment, maintenance, and operation of the offices along said railroads, it being
understood that no charge shall be made for the transportation
of poles or other materials over any of the railway company's
railroads for use on any other of .its railroads.
"Tenth. The telegraph company agrees to supply instruments and local batteries and blanks and stationery for commercial telegraph business, as hereinbefore provided at offices

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

established and maintained by the railway company. At all
telegraph stations of the railway company its employ6s shall receive, transmit, and deliver such commercial or public messages
-as may be offered, and shall render to the telegraph company
monthly statements of such business and full accounts of all
receipts therefrom, and the railway company shall cause all of
such receipts to be paid over to the telegraph company monthly.
"As compensation to the railway company for the services
herein provided for, the telegraph company agrees to pay or
return to the railway company monthly one-half of the cash
receipts at telegraph stations maintained and operated by and
at the expense of the railway companr, tolls on ocean cable
messages and tolls for lines of other companies excepted, all
of which shall be retained by the telegraph company, it being
understood that the railway company shall not be entitled to
any portion of the tolls on ocean cable messages or tolls belonging to lines of other companies or to any portion of amounts
checked against other offices.
"The railway company agrees that its employ6s shall not
compete with the telegraph company's offices in the transaction of commercial telegraph business at any point where the
telegraph company may now or hereafter have an office separate from the railway company's office, by cutting rates or by
active efforts to divert business from the telegraph company."
"Twelfth. It is further agreed that the management of the
wires, the repairs of all the lines along the railway company's
railroads, and the distribution of all materials for use on said
lines, shall be under the supervision and control of a competent
superintendent, who shall be appointed and paid jointly by the
parties hereto, and whose salary shall be fixed by mutual agreement, and said superintendent shall be equally the servant of
each Qf the partie.s hereto, and shall, as far as practicable, protect and harmonize the interest of both parties hereto in the
transaction of the railroad and commercial telegraph business
along the railway company's railroads. .
"Thirteenth. The railway company shall have the right
to the free use of any telegraphic patent rights or new discoveries or inventions that the telegraph company now owns

UNITED STATES

.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

1.7

Opinion of the Court.

and uses in its general telegraph business or whicli it may
hereafter own and use, as aforesaid, so -far as thesame may be
necessary.to properly carry .on. the business of railroad telegraphing on the line of said railroads as provided for herein.
"Fourteenth. The telegraph company hereby promises and
agrees to assume and .protect the railway company from the
payment of all taxes levied and assessed upon the telegraph
property belonging to either of the parties to this agreement.
"Fifteenth. The provisions of this agreement shall extend to
all railroads and branches or extensions thereof now or hereafter owned or controlled by.the railway company, provided,
however, that in case the railway company.shall hereafter- acquire the ownership or control of any railroad, upon which the
telegraph company may already have a line of telegraph in
operation, the provisions of this contract shall not apply to 'such
railroad and'telegraph line without the mutual consent of the
parties hereto at the time of such acquisition?'
The contract of 1881 was, by its terms, to continue in-force
for twenty-five years, and existing contracts with other companies, and in respect to other roads, were to be deetied superseded, so long as the last contract was fully, observed on the
part of the railway company, but to be again in force, for
the protection of 'the Western Union Telegraph Company, in
case this contract should not be kept in good'faith by'the
railway company for the full term of twenty-five-years.,
By the decree of the Circuit Court it was further adjudged
that the Union Pacific Railway Company "at once put an
end to all relations between it and the defendant, the Western
Union Telegraph Company, not, equally allowed to all other
persons or borporations operating, owning, or using the telegraph as a means of communication, and also at once resume
possession of its 'offices, poles, wires, instruments, and all its
other property belonging or appertaining to the business of
telegraphy along -such of 'its main and branch lines as were
aided by the Government under the act of Xuly 1; 1862, and
,acts amendatory and supplemental thereto, and henceforth,
by and trough its own corporate officers and employ6s, maintain and operate, for railroad, governmental, commercial, and
voL. OL=-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

other purposes, such telegraph lines and instruments, and in
all ways exercise by itself alone all the telegraph franchises
conferred upon it and obligations assumed by it under the
several acts granting subsidies in land or bonds or loan of
credit to it and to its constituent companies, or the acts amendatory of or supplemental thereto; and in all cases where the
said defendant- company has not now adequate facilities to
enable it to thus conduct the telegraph business and afford
equal facilities to all without discrimination in favor of or
against any- person, company, or corporation whatever, and
to receive, deliver, and exchange business with connecting
telegraph lines and all companies desiring to make such connections on equal terms and afford equal facilities to all, and without discrimination for or against any one of such connecting lines and upon just and equitable terms (all of which said
defendant is required and directed to at once proceed to do),
then said defendant shall at once construct and provide such
facilities as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this
decree and the several acts of Congress creating or aiding said
defendant company or its constituent parts and all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto."
It was further adjudged that the Western Union Telegraph
Company "at once vacate all the offices of said railway company without interference or damage to the same, and without removing, until the further order of this court, any property therefrom or from the line of said railway company
which has heretofore been jointly used by the two companies,
or the ownership of which is in dispute or is so connected
with or mixed with the property of the railway company as
to make it difficult of identification, or the removal of which
will interrupt or interfere with the disbharge of the duties of the
defendant railway company, as herein set forth and enjoined ;"
this decree, however, not to be construed as preventing the railway company from leasing to the telegraph company "1the
right to occupy with its wires, instruments, batteries, and opera*tors, upon reasonable and proper terms, any of its poles along
the right of way and space in the depots or stations of the said
the'Union Pacific Railway Company not required by the railway company for the transaction of its busi'ess."

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

19'

Opinion of the Court.
Sixty days after the entry of the decree Were given to make
such necessary arrangements, adjustments, and changes as
might become necessary by reason of annulling the above
agreements, and in order that the provisions of the decree might'
be carried into effect. And the right was reserved to the telegraph company to apply for and have stated an account between the defendants in respect of the value of the telegraph
property along the line of the -railway company, the cost of
maintenance and. profits of the telegraph lines, the amounts
contributed thereto by the respectiver defendants or"their assignors or predecessors in title, -and all matters affecting, the
equities of the defendants-the United States to have the
right to intervene on such accounting for the protection of its
...
interests and those of the public. 50 Fed. Rep. 28.
Upon appeal by the defendants to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to enter a modified
decree adjudging, among other things, that the agreement of
October 1, 1866, was a lawful and binding contract, and.
continued in force until it was superseded by the agreement
of July 1, 1881 ; that the -agreements of September 1, 1869,, and
December 14, 1871, were beyond the powers of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, and .must be annulled; that the equities
arising out of the two last-named agreements were adjusted
and settled by the parties interested when they made !-he
contract of July 1, 1881; and, that the last-named agreement
was- valid and binding in all respects, except that the third
and fourth paragraphs were null and void to the extent, and
only to the 6xtent, that they secured or granted, or were intended to secure and grant, to the Western Union Telegraph
Company any exclusive rights, privileges, or advantages whatsoever. 19 U. S. App. 531; S. C. 59 Fed. Rep. 813.
Before examining the provisions of the agreements that
were annulled by the decree of the. Circuit Court, it is neces-.
sary to ascertain the nature and extent of 'the obligations, imposed upon the Union Pacific Railroad Company and the
other constituent companies of the Union Pacific Railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, in respect of the construction, maintenance, and
operation of telegraph lines along the routes of their respective
roads. If it be found that the Union Pacific Railway Company, in the exercise of the rights and powers of its constituent companies, was not, prior to the passage of the act of
August 7, 1888, under any legal duty, in addition to the con-

struction of a railroad on the routes prescribed, to maintain
or operate telegraph lines on or along its roadways, the question will arise, whether it was competent for Congress to require that company, through its own officers and employ~s
exclusively, to maintain or operate telegraph lines on or over
its roadways, to be used for railroad, governmental, commercial, and other purposes, and itself alone exercise the telegraph
franchises cohferred by the acts of Congress.
The Union Pacific Railroad Company was created by the
above act of Congress of July 1, 1862. 12 Stat. 489, c. 120.
Its title indicated that the subsidy granted was to aid in the
construction of both a railroad and. telegraph line from the
Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for postal, military, and other
purposes.
Proceeding under that act, the company began in 1865, and
in 1869 completed, the construction of a railroad from Omaha
to Ogden, making connection at the latter place with the Central Pacific Railway, extending from Ogden to San Francisco.
It also constructed, on the north side of its right of way, a
telegraph line between Omaha and Ogden.
By the first section of the above act of July 1, 1862, the
Union Pacific Railroad Company was authorized and empowered "to lay out, locate, construct, furnish, maintain,
and enjoy a continuous railroad and telegraph" from a named
point in the then Territory of Nebraska to the western boundary of Nevada Territory; by the second section, a right of
way through the public lands was given 'for the construction
of said railroad and telegraph line;" by the third section, a
grant of public lands was made "for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of said railroad and telegraph line;" by the
fourth section, patents for lands granted were to be issued

UN ITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

21

Opinion of the Court.

upon the certificate of commissioners appointed by the President, when it appeared that forty consecutive miles of the
"railroad and telegraph line" had been completed and equipped
in all respects as required, and were ready for the service contemplated by the act 'by the fifth section, provision was made
for issuing to the company, bonds of the United -States, that
should constitute a first mortgage on the whole line of "the
railroad and telegraph, together with the rolling stock"'such bonds to be issued when the commissioners certified to
the completion and equipment of forty consecutive miles of
"railroad and telegraph," in accordance with the. provisions
of the act ; by the sixth section, the .grants of land were declared to be made "upon condition that said company shall
pay said bonds at maturity and shall keep said railroad and
telegraph line in repair and use, and shall at all times transmit,
despitches over said telegraph line," etc. ; by the seventhsection, the company was required, within one year after the passage of the act, to file its assent to its provisions, and complete
said "railroad and telegraph" from the point of beginning as
provided to the western boundary of Nevada Territory before
the first day of July, 1874; and by the eighth section, "the line
of said railroad aid telegraph" was prescribed.
The ninth section authorized the Leavenworth, Pawnee and
Western Railroad Company - which, prior to January 1, 1862,
had located its line of road from Leavenworth to Fort Riley
- to-construct a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri
River, at the mouth of the Kansas River, on *the south side
thereof, so as to connect with the Pacific Railroad of Missouri
at the aforesaid point, on the one hundredth meridian of longitude west of Greenwich, upon ",thesame terms and conditions
in all respects' as were provided in the act for the construction of the"railroad and telegraph line first mentioned, and to
meet and connect with the same at the meridian of longi-.
tude named. The same section authorized the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, a California corporation, to construct "a
railroad and telegraph line" from the Pacific boast, at or near.
San Francisco or the navigable waters of the SacramentoRiver, to the eastern, boundary of that State, "upon the same

OCTOBER TERX, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

terms and conditions, in all respects, as are contained in this act
for the construction of said railroad and telegraph line first
mentioned, and to meet and connect with the first-mentioned
railroad and telegraph line on the eastern boundary of California."
The tenth section authorized the Kansas and California
.companies, or either of them, after completing their roads, to
unite upon equal terms with the first-named company in constructing so much of said "railroad and telegraph line and
branch railroads and telegraph lines" in the act mentioned,
through the Territories from the State of California to the
Missouri River, as shall then remain to be constructed, on the
same terms and conditions as provided in relation to the said
Union Pacific Railroad Company. And the Hannibal and St.
Joseph Railroad, the Pacific Railroad Company of Missouri,
and the first-named company, or either of them, on filing their
assent to the act, were authorized to unite upon equal terms,
with the said Kansas company, in constructing said railroad
and telegraph, to-said meridian of longitude, with the consent
of the said State of Kansas; "and in case said first-named
company shall complete its line to the eastern boundary of California before it is completed across said State by the Central
Pacific Railroad Company of California, said first-named company is hereby authorized to continue in constructing the same
through California, with the consent of said State, upon the
terms mentioned in this act, until said roads shall meet and
connect, and the whole line of said railroad and telegraph is
completed; and the Central Pacific Railroad Company of
California, after completing its road across said State, is
authorized to continue the construction of said railroad and
telegraph -through the Territories of the United States to the
Missouri River, including the branch roads specified in this
act, upon the routes hereinbefore and hereinafter indicated, on
the terms and conditions provided in this act in relation to the
said Union Pacific Railroad Company, until said roads shall
meet and connect, and the whole line of said railroad and
branches and telegraph is completed."
By the eleventh section it was provided, in respect of bonds

tTNiTED STATES

. tNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

23

Opinion of the Cour.
issued in aid of the construction of the most mountainous and
difoult parts of the road, that "1no more than fifty thousand
of said bonds shall be issued under this act to aid in constructing
the main line of said railroad and telegraph;" by the twelfth
section, that "the whole line of said railroad and branches and
telegraph shall be operated and used for all purposes of con-munication, travel, 4nd transportation, so far as the public and
Government are concerned, as one connected, continuous line;"
and by the fourteenth section, that the Union Pacific Railroad
Company should construct a single liue of railr6ad and telegraph from the western boundary of Iowa, at a point to be
designated by the President, so as to form a connection with
that- company's line on the said one hfindr'edth meridian of
longitude, upon the same terms and conditions prescribed " for
the construction of said railroad and telegraph first mentioned;" and whenever a railroad was constructed through
Minnesota or Iowa to Sioux City,'then the -above company
should construct a railroad and telegraph line from Sioux City
to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad.
The fifteenth section declared that any company then or thereafter incorporated should have the right to connect its road with
the road and branches provided by the act, at such places and
Apon such terms as the President might prescribe. But by an
act of Congress, paised June 20, 18,74, 18 Stat. 111, c. 33-1,
the following addition was made to this section of the act
of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, 496, c. 120: "And any officer
or agent of the companies authorized to construct the aforesaid roads, or of any company engaged in operating either of
said roads, who shall refuse to operate and use the road or
telegraph under his control, or which he is engaged in operating for all purposes of communication, travel, and transportation, so far as the public and the Government are concerned,
as one continuous line, or shall refuse, in such operation and
use, to afford and secure to each of said roads equal advantages and facilities as to rates, time, or transportation, without
any. discrimination of any kind in favor of, or adverse to, the
road or business of any or either of said companies, shall be
deemed guilty of a.misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one thousand dollars,
and may be imprisoned not less than six months;

.

.

.

and

it is hereby provided that for all the purposes of said act, and
of the acts amendatory thereof, the railway of 'the Denve.r
Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company shall be deemed and
taken to be a part and extension of the road of the Kansas Pacific Railroad, to the point of junction thereof with the road of
the Union Pacific Railroad Company at Cheyenne, as provided
in the act of March third, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine."
The sixteenth section of the act of 1862 further provided
that all of the railroad companies mentioned in the act, or
any two or more of them, might form themselves into one
consolidated company, the latter company to proceed thereafter "to construct said railroad and branches and telegraph
line upon the terms and conditions provided in this act."
The seventeenth section provided that in case said company
or companies failed to comply with the terms and conditions
of the act "by not completing. the .said road and telegraph
and branches within a reasonable time, or by not keeping the
same in repair and use, but shall permit the same, for an
unreasonable time, to remain unfinished, or out of repair, and
unfit for use, Congress may pass any act to insure the speedy
completion of said road and branches, or put the same in repair and use, and may direct the income of said railroad aid
telegraph line to be thereafter devoted to the use of the United
States, to repay all such expenditures caused by the default
and neglect of such company or companies."
The eighteenth section provided that whenever it appeared
that "the net earnings of the entire road and telegraph," including the amount allowed for services rendered for the
United States, after deducting all expenditures, including
repairs, and the furnishing, running, and managing of said
road, shall exceed ten per centum upon its cost, exclusive of
the five per centum to the United States, Congress could reduce the rates of fare thereon, if unreasonable in amount, and
fix and establish the same by law. And "the better to accomplish the object of this act, namely, to promote the public
interest and welfare by the construction of said railroad and

DUNITED STATES v. UNION PAOIFIC RAILWAY.

25

Opinion of the Court.

telegraph line, and keeping the same in working order, and to
secure to the Government at all times (but particularly in time
of war) the use and benefits of the same for postal, military,
and other purposes, Congress may, .at any time, having due
regard for the rights of said companies named herein, add to,
alter, amend, or repeal this act."'
The act-of July 1, 1862, was amended, in various particulars,
by the act of July 2, 1861, c. 216. 13 Stat. 356. By the tenth
section of the latter act the former was so amended that the
Union Pacific IRailroad Company, the Central Pacific IRailroad
Company, and other companies authorized to participate in
the construction of the proposed lines of road, could "issue
their first mortgage bonds on their respective railroad and telegraph lines to an amount not exceeding the amount of the
bonds of the United States," and "the lien of the United
States shall be. subordinate to that of the bonds of any or
either of said companies, hereby authorized to be issued on
their respective roads, property, and equipments," except as to
those provisions of the act of 1862, relating to the transmission
of despatches, and the transportation of mails, troops, munitions of war, supplies and public stores of the United *States.
Section fifteen of the same act was in these words: "That
the several companies authorized to construct the aforesqid
roads are hereby required to operate and use said roads and
telegraph fcr all purposes of communication, travel, and transportation, so far as the public aifd the Government are concerned, as one continuous line; and, in such operation and
use, to afford and secure to each equal advantages and facilities
as to rates, time, and transportation, without any discrimination
of any kind in favor of the road or business of any or either of
said companies, or adverse to the road or business of any or
either of the others, and it shall not be lawful for the proprietors of any line of telegraph, authorized by this act, or the act
amended by this act, to refuse or fail to convey for all persons
requiring the transmission of news and messages of like charactqr, on pain of forfeiting- to the person injured,- for each
offence, the sum of one hundred dollars, and such other damage
as he may have suffered on account of said refusal or failure,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to be sued for and recovered in any court of the United States,
or of any State or Territory of competent jurisdiction."
The sixfeenth section provided-that any twa or more of the
companies authorized- to participate in the benefits of that act
might at any time unite and consolidate upon such terms and
conditions as were not incompatible with such act or the laws
of the State or States in which the roads of such companies
were, and such consolidated company should be entitled to
receive from the Government/all the grants, benefits, and
immunities that the respective constituent companies were
entitled to, subject to all the restrictions imposed upon them.
By the twenty-second section it was declared that "Congress
may, at any time, alter, amend, or repeal this act."
In our judgment, it is not difficult to. ascertain the intention of Congress in passing the. acts of July 1, 1862, and the
amendatory act of July 2, 1864, c. 216. The supreme object
to be attained was the maintenance and operation of both a
railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the
Pacific Ocean, and governmental aid was extended in order to
accomplish a result so important to the whole country.
The authority given to the Union Pacific Railroad Company
to lay out, locate, construct, furnish, maintain, and, enjoy a
continuous railroad and telegraph line on that route, § 1; the
grant of public lands/or the _urpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad and telegraphline, § 8,; the direction that
patents for lands granted should be issued as each forty consecutive miles of such railroad and telegraph line Appeared,
upon the certificate of commissioners, appointed by the President, to have been completed and equipped in all respects as
required, § 4; the making the bonds of the United States a
first mortgage on the whole line of the railroad and telegraph,
§ 5; the explicit declaration that the grants of public lands
were made uepon the condition, among others, that the company
should keep said railroad and telegraph line in repair and use,
and at all times transmit despatches over said telegraph line,
§ 6; the requirement that the company should complete said
railroad and telegraph on the route prescribed and within a
named time, § 7; the reservation that Congress may at any

UNITED STATES v. U-NION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

27

Opinion of the Court.
time, having-due regard to the rights of the companies named*
add to, alter, amend, or repeal the act in order that it may
better accomplish the object of the government, namely, "to
promote the public interest and welfare by the construction
of" said railroad and telegraph line, and keep the same in
working order, and to secure to the government at all times
(but particularly in time of war) "the use and benefits of the
same for postal, military, and other purposes," § 18; these and
other provisions are wholly inconsistent with the idea that the
Union Pacific Railroad Company'could have fulfilled its obligations to the government by simply constructing a railroad,
without making any provision whatever for the construction,
maintenance, or operation of a telegraph line, thereby leaving
all communication by telegraph, along its route, to the absolute
control of private corporafions deriving no corporate authority
from the National Government, and whose operations would
not ordinarily be subjected to national supervision.
The same observations are applicable to the Leavenworth,
Pawnee and Great Western Railroad Company -afterwards,
and successively, as has been stated, the Union'Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, and the Kansas Pacific
Railway Company. That corporation was authorized to construct not simply a railroad, but a railroad and telegraphline,
between certain points, upon the same terms and conditions
as were prescribed in the act for the construction of a railroad
and telegraph line by the Union Pacific Railroad Company.
The purpose of Congress, as indicated in the act of 1862, to
provide for the construction of telegraph lines by the cornpanics named in it, in connection with their respective railroads, was unchanged at the time of the passage of the amendatory act of July 2, 1864, c. 216. The latter a;t, as we have
seen, gave authority to the companies authorized to participate in the construction of the roads that were to connect the
Missouri River with the Pacific Ocean to plape a first mortgage
on their respective railroads and telegraph lines, and made the
mortgage held by the United States subordinate to it. § 10.
It did more. It required those companies to operate and use
their roads and telegraph for all purposes of communication,

OCTOBER TERN:, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

travel, and transportation, so far as the public and government were concerned, "as one connected, continuous line,"
and without discrimination against either road-a requirement that would not have been made if Congress had not
intended that each company receiving aid from the government should itself maintain and operate or control, or should
provide for the maintenance, on its own route, and under its
own control, of a telegraph line for the accommodation of
both the government and the general public.
What we have said as to the objects that Congress intended
to accomplish by aiding the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean is
based upon sections one to eighteen, inclusive, of the act of
July 1, 1862, and upon the provisions of the amendatory acts
of July 2, 1864, c. 216, and June 20, 1874, 18 Stat. 111, c.
331. If we look alone to those sections and provisions, the
conclusion must be that any company named in the act of
1862, and receiving the aid therein granted by the government, was required itself, and through its own officers and
employ6s, to construct, maintain, and operate both a railroad
and telegraph line, and could not assign or transfer to any
other corporation its franchises in that regard.
But there is a section in the act of 1862 showing that, for the
benefit 'of certain telegraph companies that had already expended large sums in the construction of telegraph lines, Congress was willing, in a named contingency, to relieve the railroad companies receiving governmental aid, from, at least, any
present obligation to construct telegraph lines on their respective rights of way. That contingency is indicated in the nineteenth section of the act of 1862, which provides:
"That the several railroad companies herein named are
authorized to enter into an arrangement with the Pacific Telegraph Company, the Overland Telegraph Company, and the
California State Telegraph Company, so that the present line
of telegraph between the Missouri River and San Francisco
may be moved upon or along the line of said railroad and
branches as fast as said roads and branches are built; and if
said arrangement be entered into, and the transfer of said tele-

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.
-'

29

Opinion of the Court.

graph line be-made in accordance therewith to the line of
said railroad and branches, such transfer shall, for all purposes
of this act, be held and considered a fulfilment on the part of
said railroad companies of the provisiods of this act in regard
to the construction of said line of telegraph. And, in case
of disagreement, said telegraph companies are authorized to
remove their line of telegraph along and upon the line of
railroad herein contemplated without prejudice to the rights
of said railroad companies named herein."
A similar provision relating to the Union Pacific Railroad
Company and the United States .TelegrapJh Company and its
associates was embodied in the fourth section of the act of
Congress, commonly known as the Idaho act, of July 2, 1864,
c. 220, 13 Stat. 373, entitled "An act for increased facilities of
telegraph communication between the Atlantic and Pacific
States and the Territory of Idaho."
By the latter act the United States Telegraph Company
and their associates were authorized to, erect a line or lines
of magnetic telegraph between the Missouri River and San
Francisco on such routes as they might select, to connect
with its lines then constructed and being constructed through
the States of the Union. -It was-given the use of such unoccupied land of the United States as was necessary for right of
way, and materials, and for the establishing of stations along
said line for repairs, not exceeding at any station one quartersection of land, and such stations not to exceed one in fifteen
miles on the average of the whole line,'unless said lands should
be required by~the government of the United States for railroad or other purposes. § 1. Under the direction of the
President of the United States it was authorized to erect a
telegraph line from Fort Hall to Portland, Oregon, and from
Fort Hall to Bannock and Virginia City, in the Territory of
Idaho, with the same privileges as to the right of way, and. so
forth, as provided in the first, section; the United States to
have priority in the use *of said lines of telegraph to Oregon
,and Idaho. § 2. It was authorized to send and receive despatches, on payment of the regular charges -or transmission,
over any line then or thereafter to be constructed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court. )

authority or aid of Congress, to connect with any line or lines
authorized or erected by the Russian or English governments,
and all despatches received by its line or lines were to be
transmitted in the order of their reception, and the answers
delivered to the United States Telegraph Company for transmission over their lines to the office whence the original message was sent, whenever so directed by the sender thereof.
§ 3. By the fourth section it was provided: "The several
railroad companies authorized by the act of Congress of July
one, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, are authorized to enter
into arrangements with the United States Telegraph Company so that the line of telegraph between the Missouri River
and San Franicisco may be made upon and along the line of
said railroads and branches as fast as said roads and branches
are built, and if said arrangements be entered into and the
transfer-of said telegraph line be made in accordance therewith to the line of said railroads and branches, such transfer
shall, for all purposes of the act referred to, be held and considered a fulfilment on the part of said railroad companies of
the provision of the act in regard to the construction of a
telegraph line; and, in case of disagreement, said telegraph
company are authorized to remove their line of telegraph
along and upon the lines of railroad therein contemplated,
without prejudice to the rights of said railroad companies."
Referring to the nineteenth section of the act of 1862, Mr.
Justice Miller, in Tfestern Union Tel. Co. v. Union Pacific
Railway, 3 Fed. Rep. 721, 728, (1 McCrary, 581, 588,) said:
"The three telegraph companies here spoken of, together constituted, at the time this statute was passed, a continuous line
of telegraph from the Missouri River to San Francisco; and
it was obvious that the building of another line parallel. to
that, and not far distant from it, would have a very injurious
effect upon the value of the property of those telegraph companies; and it was to protect those companies and to prevent
the injury which would follow from the construction of another
line between the same points, over an uninhabited region of
country, that Congress provided that, by an arrangement with
the railroad company, if those companies should remove their

UITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

31

Opinion of the Court.

wires along the line of that road so they could be used both
for railroad purposes and the use of the general public, then
the obligation of the railroad company uider the act of Congress to build another line should no longer exist."
In reference to the fourth section of the Idaho act, the same
eminent Justice said: "It does not- admit, in my-opinion, of
any reasonable doubt that if the United States Telegraph
Company mentioned in that statute, or any company which
had the same rights and authorities on that subject that that
company had, entered into an agreement with the Pacific
Railroad Company, or any of its branches built under the
authority of the original act of 1862, which secures the proper
construction and operation of a line of telegraph al6ng its
road for the benefit of the public, that it is absolved from the
obligation imposed upon it by the act of 1862, to construct
and operate such a telegraph line. It was manifestly the
design of this act of 1864: to eiable the -United States Telegraph Company to become substituted, by a proper arrangement with the Pacific Railroad Company and its branches, to
the right to build a telegraph line along the track and right
of way 'of those railroad companies, and thereby to relieve
those companies from the obligation .to build and operate such
a line." Id. 727.
We concur in these observations as to th6 scope and effect
of the nineteenth section of the act of 1862, and of the like
section in the Idaho a~t of July 2, 1864, c. 220. But it must
be observed that the transfer to the roadway of the Union
Pacific Railroad of the lines of the telegraph- companies, or
either of them, named in the nineteenth section of the act of
1862, was not in pursuance of any "arrangement" made with
those companies. On the contrary, as stated by counsel, the
lines constructed by telegraph companies between Omaha and
Ogden, and operated by the Western Union Telegraph Company prior to the actual completion of thq railroad between
those points, vere traniferred to the south side of the railroad
as the work of' railroad construction proceeded, without any
arrangement whatever with the railroad company. This was
done under that clause in the nineteenth section of the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

1862, providing that "in case of disagreement said telegraph
companies are authorized to remove their line of telegraph
along and upon the line of railroad herein contemplated without prejudice to the rights of said railroad companies named
herein."
In reference to the telegraph line from Kansas City via
Lawrence and Rossville to Denver, the claim is, that a part of
it was constructed under some arrangement between the railroad company and Samuel Hallett, contractor; that the balance
was constructed under the contract of October 1, 1866, between
the Western Union Telegraph Company and the Kansas Pacific
Railroad Company, the latter contracting by the name it then
used of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division;
and that after that date and until 1880, the line of telegraph
extending from Kansas City to Denver was operated under the
contract of October 1, 1866. It is further claimed that the
telegraph line so constructed was accepted by the Government
as a substitute for the line which the charter of the railroad
company required it to construct, maintain, and operate.
If it were true that the telegraph line on the Kansas Pacific
branch was constructed on the roadway of the railroad company under such an "arrangement" with the railroad company as was contemplated or permitted by the fourth section
of the Idaho act, and that the Government, by not declaring
to the contrary, is to be deemed to have accepted the construction by the telegraph companies of a line on the south side of
the right of way of the Union Pacific Railroad as equivalent
to an "arrangement" allowed by the nineteenth section of
the act of 1862, the questioni would remain whether such
arrangements, even if legal in all respects when made, so tied
the hands of the Government that it could not, at a subsequent
date, in execution of the purposes of Congress, require the railroad company, by its own officers and employ~s exclusively, to
maintain or operate telegraph lines for railroad, governmental,
and commercial purposes, on and over its roads, for the construction of which the aid of the United States was accepted.
We have seen that the object of giving governmental aid to
the corporations named in the act of 1862 was to promote the

UNITED STATES V. UNION PA1CIFIC RAILWAY.

33

-Opinion of the Court.
public interest and welfare by the construction and operation
of a railroad and telegraph line, to the use and benefit of which
the Government should,be entitled at all times, particularly in
time of war, for postal, military, and other purposes; and that
"the better to accomplish" that object Congress reserved the
power, capable of being exercised: at any time, of adding to,
altering, amending, or repealing such act, having "due regard
to the rights "1of the companies named in it; and that.by the
act of 1864, c. 216, the several companies authorized to 6oustruct the roads named were required to operate and use their
roads and telegraph for all purposes of communication,, travel,
and transportation as one connected, continuous line, affording
equal advantages and facilities as to rates, time, and transportation, without discrimination against other companies, or against
persons requiring the transmission of news and messages.
iNo express limitation is imposed upon the exercise of the
power so reserved; except that the act of 1862 required that
due regard be had to the rights of ,the railroad companies that
accepted its provisions. But, looking at the entire act, it is
clear that there was no purpose to interfere with the authority
of Congress to enact such laws, by way of addition to or alteration of existing legislation, as were, necessary or conducive
to the attainment of the public objects sought to be attained.
Indeed, the words in the act of 1862, "due regard for the
rights of said companies named therein," suggest only such
restrictions as the lag, without such words, would imply.
It would not be competent for Congress, under the guise of
altering and amending the act in question, to impose upon the
railroad company duties wholly foreign to the objects for
which it was created.or for which governmental aid was given.
Neither could it, by such alteration or amendment, destroy
rights actually vested, nor disturb transactions fully consummated. We may here, not inappropriately, repeat what was
said in the Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S..100, 718, 719, 720,
that "this power has a limit," and "cannot be used to take
away property already acquired under the operation of the
charter, or to deprive the corporation of the fruits actually
reduced to 'possession of contracts lawfully made." Again,
VOL. CLX-

OCTOBER TERMA

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

in the same case: "The United States cannot, any more than
a State, interfere with private rights, except for legitimate
governmental purposes. They are not included within the
constitutional prohibition which prevents States from passing
lawscumpairing the obligation of contracts, but equally with
the States they are prohibited from depriving persons or
corporations of property without due process of law. They
cannot legislate back to themselves, without making compensation, the lands they have given this corporation to aid in the
construction of its railroad. Neither can they by legislation
compel the corporation to discharge its obligations in*respect
to the subsidy bonds otherwise than according to the terms of
the contract already made in that connection.. The United
States are as much bound by their contracts as are individuals.
If they repudiate their obligations, it is as much repudiation,
with all the wrong and reproach that term implies, as it would
be if the repudiator had been a State or a municipality or a citizen. No change can be made in the title created by the grant
of the lands, or in the contract for the subsidy bonds, without
the consent of the corporation. All this is indisputable."
But it cannot be doubted that the act of 1888 is within the
general scope, and consistent with the objects, of the previous
statutes relating to railroad and telegraphic communication
between the Missouri River and the Pacific Ocean. If Congress concluded - and we must assume, from the provisions
of the act of 1862, that it did conclude- that the public
interests and the general welfare would be promoted if the
railroad company, accepting national aid, should exercise
through its own officers and employ~s exclusively, the telegraphic franchises granted to it, it is difficult to perceive how
legislation designed to enforce such a policy can be held to be
wanting in due regard to the rights of such company.
It may be that Congress passed the act of 1888 because,
in its'judgment, the rights of the Government andof the public,
in the matter of telegraphic communication, could be fully
secured or effectively guarded only by means of telegraph
lines maintained and operated by a corporation deriving its
power from the General Government, and subject, in respect

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIF1C RAILWAY.

.35

Opinion of the Court.

of the general conduct of its affairs, to national supervision
and control. If such considerations induced the passage of.
the act of 1888,-can the validity of that legislation be made to
turn upon the inquiry by the courts whether the policy inaugurated by Congress was best for the public interests? Can it
be said that the act of 1888 is not germane -Pr related to the
objects for the attainment of which the aid of the Government
was bestowed, as indicated in the act of 1862? These questions
mnust be answered in the negative. We have nothing to do
with the wisdom or policy of legislation. The discretion of
Congress in such matters cannot be controlled -by the judiciary,
.nor can the courts disregard an act of legislation merely upon
-the ground that the public interests would, in their judgment,
have been best subserved by leaving telegraphic communications, along the route of railroads constructed with nationiil
pid, under the domination of private corporations organized
under state authority. We can consider only the question of
legislative power. If the power existed to enact the statute.
of 1888, the'duty of the courts is to give full effect to the will
of Congress. No other position can be taken "without attributing to the judiciary an authority tp rev1se the action of the
legislative branch of the Government that it does not possess,
and which the established principles of our Government forbid
it to exercise.
The contention that the act of 1888 did not have due regard
to the rights of the railroad company is based upon that provision in the act of 1862 (§ 19), and a similar provision in the
act of 1864 (§ 4), which permitted the railroad company to
make an "arrangement" with certain telegraph companies to,
place their, lines upon and along the route of the railroad and
branches - such transfer to be held and c0nsider6d, for all
lf
on the part of said railthe purposes of the act, a fu tent
road companies of the provisions of the act ",in regard to the
comtmtion of said lines of telegraph." But such an Arrangement, accompanied by the transfer of telegraph lines constructed by telegraph companies to the roadway of the railroad
company, had no other effect than to relieve the railroad company ,from any _27ewet .duty itself to construct a telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

line to be used under the franchises granted and for the purposes indicated by Congress. It did not affect the authority
of Congress, under its reserved power, to require the railroad
company itself to maintain or operate in the future, by its
officers and employ~s alone, telegraph lines on its main road
and branches.

Indeed, no arrangement of the character specified could
have been made, except in full view of the power reserved to
add to, alter, or anend the act that permitted it. Althoughas just stated, that power could not have been exercised, so as
to divest either the railroad company or the telegraph company of property already acquired, or to disturb or annul any
transaction fully consummated, while such arrangement was
in force, it was competent for Congress to make such additions
to, or such alterations or amendments of, previous statutes, as
would secure the maintenance or operation by the railroad
company, through its own officers and employ~s, of a telegraph line over and along its main line and branches.
It is of no consequence that such legislation may defeat the
purpose contemplated by the patties to an arrangement of the
character described; for they contracted, and could only have
contracted, in view of the possible exercise by Congress of the
power expressly reserved by it. If we should hold the addition
made by the act of 1888 to the act of 1862, and the acts amendatory thereof, to be beyond the power of Congress, it would
be difficult, if not impossible, to prescribe the lines within which
the national legislature must keep, and beyond which .it may
not pass, when exerting its reserved power of adding to, altering, or amending statutes and charters of incorporation.
We have, therefore, considered the question before us just
as if a contract or arrangement, between the railroad and a
telegraph company, for the construction by the latter of a
telegraph line on the route of, the former, expressly recited
the provision of the act of 1862, by which Congress reserved
the power, to be exerted at any time, to add to, amend, or
repeal the act which authorized such contract or arrangement.
In this view, it must be held that by its reservation of anthority to add to, alter, amend, or repeal the acts in question,

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAIWAY.

87

Opinion of the Court.

whenever it chose so to do, Congress, subject to the limitation
that rights actually vested or transactions fully consummated
could not be disturbed, intended to keep within its control the
entire subject of railroad and telegraphic communication between the Missouri River and the Pacific Ocean, through the
agendy of corporations created by it, or that had accepted the
.bounty of the Government. It was never intended that the railroad companies, accepting such bounty, should be able, by any
contract or arrangement with telegraph companies, to discharge themselves, for all time and beyond the authority of
Congress otherwise to provide, from the obligation to exercise,
by their-officers and agents exclusively, the telegraphic franchises received by them from the National Government.
These principles are fully supported by former decisions, in
which this court has determined the scope and effect of constitutional or statutory provisions that reserved to the legislat-,
ure granting charters of incorporation, or enacting statutes
under which private rightq, might be acquired, the power to
alter, amend, or repeal such charters or statutes. Tomlinson
v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454, 457, 458; Miller v. State, 15 Wall.
478; Bolyoke Company v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500; Sinking
Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720, 721 ; Greenwood V. Freight Co.,
105 U. S. 13, 21; Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466,
476; Spring Valley Water Works Co. v. Schottler, 110 U. S.
347, 352; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citiiens' .Gas Co., 115 U. S.
683, 696; Gabbs v. Consolidated Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 408;
Sioux City Street Railway V. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98, 108;
Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 U. S. 1, 12, 14; Hamlon Gas Light Co. v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S. 258, 270;
NY.Y. &f N. . Railroadv. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567.
What has been said in reference to the effect of the reservation in the act of 1862 of the right of adding to, altering,
amending, or repealing its provisions, is applicable to the fourth
section of the Idaho act of July 2, 1864, which permitted the
several railroad companies referred to in the act of 1862 to
make an arrangement with the United States Telegraph Company, such as was permitted by the nineteenth section of the
act of 1862 to be made with the telegraph companies therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

named. The fourth section of the Idaho act was, in legal effect,.
nothing more than an amendment or enlargement of the nineteenth section of the act of 1862, by adding the name of another
telegraph company to those mentioned in the latter section.
It was suggested in argument that the objects of the act of
1862 could be fully accomplished by means of a telegraph
company, incorporated by one of the States, and which, by
placing its lines on the route of the railroad, could 3leet all
the demands, as well o the railroad company, as of the Government and the general public. But this suggestion can
have no weight in the present inquiry. For if, as intimated,
the execution of the act of 1888 will result in no real good to
the general public, and may even be injurious to the pecuniary
interests which the Government has in the Union Pacific Railway and its branches, that is a question of public policy, with
which the judiciary is not concerned, and the responsibility
for which is with another branch of the Government.
We perceive no escape from the conclusion that it is entirely competent for Congress to add to, alter, or amend the
acts of 1862 and 186, so as to require the Union Pacific Railway Company, possessing the rights and powers bf its constituent companies, to maintain and operate, by and through its
own officers and employ~s, telegraph lines, for railroad, governmental, commercial, and other purposes, and .to exercise
itself and alone all the telegraphic franchises conferred upon
it. It is enjoying the bounty of the Government subject to
the condition, among others, that it will perform these duties
whenever so required by Congress.
It becomes necessary now to determine in what respects the
agreements of 1866, 1869, 1871, and 1881, if kept and performed
by the defendants, are inconsistent with the rights of the
United States, and whether, by their necessary operation, they
will interfere with the performance by the Union Pacific Railway Company of the duty imposed upon it by the act of 1888.
Looking first at the agreement of October 1, 1866, between
the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, and the
Western Union Telegraph Company, it will be seen that the
Western Union Tplegraph Company does not, in that agree-

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC IRAILWAY.

36

Opinion of the Court.

ment, expressly undertake to meet the obligations imposed by
the Pacific "Railroad acts upon the railroad companies named
in them, of constructing, maintaining, and operating both a
railroad and telegraph line,'on their respective routes, for the
use equally of the Government and the public. It does undertake to perform, without charge to the railway company, what
should be "decided by competent authority" to be the telegraphic obligations of the railroad company to the Government. §-10. Whom the parties regarded as competent to
decide as to the nature and extent of such obligations, does
not appear from the agreement. The effect of this stipulation, as between the railway-company and the telegraph company, was to excuse the latter from performing any services
for the Government, until competent authority decided -that
such service was due from the former.
I But pasing this point, as one not controlling in the case, it
is evident that the effect,-if not the object, of the agreement
was to give the telegraph company the absolute control of all
telegraphic business on the route of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division.
The provision that the railway company should transport
for*the telegraph company, free of charge, all the persons
engaged, and material required, in the construction, repairing,
and maintaining the telegraph line for which the agreement
provided, while exacting from other telegraph companies, for
persons engaged and for property intended to be used, in
building a telegraph line on the railway company's roadway,
the usual rates for passengers. and freight, % 4, 5 ; the stipulation that -the railway company should not give permission
to another telegraph company to construct'or operate any
telegraph line upon the lands or roadway of the railway company, without the consent in writing of the telegraph company, § 5; the provision that the railway company should not,
without the consent of the telegraph company, transmit commercial or paid business from any station where the latter
had an office; and the provision that the railway company
should account for and pay over to the telegraph company, at
the tariff rates established by the latter, all sums received by

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
the railway company for messages sent from points where the
telegraph company had no separate office, if.such sums were not
sufficient to meet the expenses of a separate telegraph office, § 8
these provisions, to say nothing of others, all plainly indicate
that the object of the agreement was to grant to the Western
Union Telegraph Company, as against all other telegraph companies, the exclusive right to control the railway company's
roadway for telegraphic purposes, so far as that could be done
without interfering with the ordinary operations of the railway
company.
This agreement of October 1, 1866, enabling the Western
Union Telegraph Company to exclude all other telegraph corporations from the roadway of the railway company, if not void
as against public policy, independently of specific statutory provisions, was inconsistent with the act of Congress of July 24,
1866, 14 Stat. 221, c. 230, entitled "An act to aid in the construction of telegraph lines, and to secure to the Government
the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes."
The substantial provisions of this statute have been preserved
in sections 5263 to 5268, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes.
By the act of June 8, 1872, 17 Stat. c. 335, pp. 308, 309,
reproduced in section 3964 of the Revised Statutes, all the
waters of the United States, during the time the mail is carried
thereon, and all railroads or parts of railroads in operation,
are post roads. And by the above statute of 1866 Congress
declared that any telegraph company then organized, or which
might thereafte be organized, under the laws of any State of
the Union should have the right to construct,- maintain, and
operate lines of telegraph through or over any portion of the
public domain of the United States, over andalong any of the
miitary or post roads of the United States which had been or
might thereafter be declared such by act of Congress, and
over, under, or across the navigable streams of the United
States; the lines of telegraph to be so constructed and main.
tained as not to obstruct the navigation of streams and waters,
or interfere with the ordinary travel on military or post roads.
"And any of said companies," the act declared, "shall have
the right to take and use from such public lands the necessary

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC. RAILWAY.

41

Opinion of the Court.
stone, timber, and other materials for its posts, piers, stations,
and other -needful uses in the construction, maintenance, and
operation of said lines of telegraph, and may preempt and
use such portion of the unoccupied public lands, subject to preemption through which its said lines of telegraph may be located as may be necessary for its stations, not exceeding forty
acres for each station; bhut such stations shall not be within
fifteen miles of each other."
The remaining sections of that act were as follows: "§ 2.
'That telegraphic communications between the several departments of the government of the United States and their officers and agents shall; in their transmission over the lines of
any of said companies, have priority over all other business,
and shall be sent at rates to be annually fixed by the Postmaster General. § 3. That the rights and privileges hereby
granted shall not be transferred by any company acting under this act to any other corporation, association, or person:
Provided,however, The United States may at any time, after
the expiration of five years from the date of the passage of
this act, for postal, military, and other purposes, purchase all
the telegraph lines, property, and effects of any or.all of said
companies at an appraised value, to be ascertained by five competent, disinterested persons, two of whom shall be selected
by the Postmaster General of the United States, two by the
company interested, and one by the four so previously selected.
§ 4. That before any telegraph company shall exercise any
of the powers or privileges conferred by this. act, such company shall file their written acceptance with the Postmaster
General of the United States of the restrictions and obligations
required, by this act."
It is clear that the essential part of the .agreement of 1866 is
prohibited by this act of July 24,1866. As that act gave every
telegraph company, organized under state laws, and.accepting
its provisions, the right to erect its poles and wires upon the
post roads of the United States, the agreement of the Union
Pacific Railway Company, EasternDivision, that it would not
permit, except with the consent of the Western Union Telegraph Company, other telegraph companies to use its roadway,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

directly tended to make the act of July 24, 1866, ineffectual,
and was, therefore, hostile to the object contemplated by Congress. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S.
1, 11. The railway company operating one of the post roads
of the United States, over which interstate commerce was carried on, could not, at least after the passage of that act, grant
to any one or more. telegraph companies the exclusive right
to use its roadway for telegraphic purposes.
But it is contended that the agreement of 1866 was authorized by the Idaho act of 1864.
That act, as we .have said, authorized the several railroad
companies, named in the act of July 1, 1862, to enter into an
"arrangement" with the "United States Telegraph Company"
for the transfer of its telegraph line to the rQadways of the
railroad company, and declared that such transfer, when made,
should, for all the purposes of the act of 1862, "be held and
considered a fulfilment, on the part of said railroad companies, of the provisions of this act in regard to the construction of a telegraph line."
We have already determined that the Idaho act did not
affect the power that Congress reserved, of adding to, altering, amending, or repealing the original and amendatory acts.
It is now to be examined as to its bearing upon the validity
of the agreement of October 1, 1866.If the Western Union Telegraph Company became the successor in right and power of the United States Telegraph
Company, and entitled to make any arrangement with the
railroad company that its predecessor could legally have
made- and such is the claim of the Western Union Telegraph Company -the question, nevertheless, remains, whether
the fourth section of the Idaho act authorized any "arrangement" to be made by the Union Pacific Railway Company,
Eastern Division, with the United States Telegraph Company,
in conflict with the previous act of July 24, 1866. This question is not, in our judgment, difficult of solution.
The purpose of the fourth section of the Idaho act is quite
apparent. Its effect was, as we have heretofore said, to relieve
each of the railroad companies named in the act of 1862 from

1MITED STATES v. UNION PACIfiC RAILWAY.

43

Opinion of the Court.

anypresent obligation to construct a telegraph line on its roadway, by means of an "arrangement" with the United States
Telegraph Company for the construction of such a line. But
no arrangement could be legally made under that act which
tended, in any degree, to defeat the great objects of the act
of 1862, and the act amendatory thereof, of July 2, 1864, c.
216. The act of 1862 did not authprize the railroad company
to agree that it would not itself, at some future time, construct
and operate a telegraph line for the use of the Government
and the people. Nor did it, in terms or by implication, repeal or modify the clause in that act by which Congress expressly reserved the power to add to, alter, amend, or'repeal, the
latter act, hay'ing due regard to the rights 6f the railway com1panies named in it. Certainly, it could never be held that a
due regard to the rights of either the railroad company or of
any corporation claiming uinder it required that the Government, charged by the Constitution with the duty of regulating interstate commerce, should permit the railroad company
receiving national aid to invest a corporation, not deriving its
authority from the United States, with the exclusive right to
enjoy its roadway -a flational highway -. for purposes of
telegraphic communication between the States.
Even if the act of July 24, 1866, had never been passed, we
oughtnot to construe the Idaho act as permitting the railway
company to bind itself by agreement to give to one telegraph
company a monopoly of the use of its roadway for telegraphic purposes. In none of the acts of Congress, having
for their object the establishing of communication by railroad and telegraph between the Missouri River and the Pacific
Ocean, is there to be found anything indicating a purpose to
allow the post roads of the United States, particularly those
aided by the Government, to fall, for all the purposes of telegraphic communication, under the exclusive control of one or
more telegraph corporations. On the' contrary, as early as
the act of June 16, 1860, c. 137, "to facilitate communication
between the Atlantic and Pacific States by electric telegraph,"
it was declared that nothing in that act contained should confer
"any exclusive right to construct a telegraph to the Pacific,,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

or debar the Government of the United States from granting
from time to time, similar franchises and privileges to other
parties."

12 Stat. 41.

If, however, it be contended that this is not the correct
interpretation of the Idaho act, upon what ground can it be
claimed that any arrangement could be made under the Idaho
act, after the passage of the act of July 24, 1866, that was
inconsistent with the latter act? Can it be said that, after
the passage of the act of 1866, and while it was in force, a
railway company, operating a post road of the United States,
could, by any form of agreement, exclude from its roadway a
telegraph company which had accepted the provisions of that
act? These questions can be answered only in one way,
namely, that every railroad company operating a post road of
the United States, over which commerce among the States is
carried on, was inhibited, after the act of July 2.4, 1866, took
effe.ct, from making any agreement inconsistent with its provisions or that tended to defeat its operation. The object of
'that act was not only to promote and secure the interests of
the Government, but to obtain, for the benefit of the people
of the entire country, every advantage, in the matter of communication by telegraph, which might come from competition
between corporations of different States. It was very far
from the intention of Congress, by any legislation, to so exert
its power as to enable one telegraph corporation, Federal or
state, to acquire exclusive rights over any post road, especially
one for the construction of which the aid of the United States
had been given, and the use of which was, to some extent, under
the control of the National Government.
We are, consequently, of opinion that the agreement of
October 1, 1866, was, in its essentidl provisions, invalid and
not binding upon the railway company.
In reference to the agreements of 1869 and 1871 between
the Union Pacific Railroad Company and the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Company, but little need be said to show that
they were void. By those agreements the former corporation
demised and leased to the telegraph company, to whose rights,
it may be assumed, the Western Union Telegraph Company suc-

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

45

Opinion of the Court.

ceeded, all the telegraph lines, wires, poles, instruments, offices,
and other property appertaining to telegraph business, that
were possessetd by the railroad company. These agreements
were annulled by the Circuit Court, and it was likewise so
adjudged by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The same conclusion had Ueen previously announced by Judge McCrary in
Atlantic and Pacijfo Telegra.ph Co. v. Union -PacficRailway
Co., 1 McOrary, 541, 5417. That able judge well said: "I
conclude that the charter of the Union Pacific Railroad Company devolved upon it the duty of constructing, operating
and maintaining a line of telegraph for commercial and other
purposes, and that this is in its nature a public duty. I am
further of the opinion that, by the provisions of the contract of
September 1, 1869, and of December 20, 1871, the railroad company undertook to lease or alienate property which was necessary to the performance of this duty. The consideration for
these contracts is declared to be ' the demise of their telegraph
lines, property and good will, and of the rights and privileges,
in the manner hereinafter specified,' etc. ; and the property
demised by the railroad company is 'all its telegraphic lines,
wires, poles, instruments, offices, and all other property by it
possessed, appertaining to the business of telegraphing, for the
purpose of sending messages and 'doing a general telegraph
business. The lessee was to hold during the whole term of
the charter of the railroad company and any renewal thereof.
There is inserted a stipulation that the lessee shall perform all
the duties imposed or that may be imposed upon the railroad
company by their charter or by the laws of the United States.
But, as already intimated, I do not think this latter clause
makes the contract good. The railroad company was not at
liberty to transfer to others those important duties, and trusts
which it, for a large consideration and for a great public purpose, had undertaken to perform., It certainly could not divest
itself of these powers and duties, and devolve them upon the
plaintiff, without express authority from Congress." Again :
"But if the contracts in question are not uzltra vires by -reason
of the transfer of property necessary to the performance, by
the railroad company, of its public duties, they are so because

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

they attempt to transfer certain franchises of the said company.
The right to operate a telegraph line, and to fix and to collect
tolls for the use of the same, is, to say the least, the most
valuable part of the franchise conferred by Congress upon the
railroad company, as a telegraph company. This right is
alienated by a clear and unequivocal assignment or transfer
from the railroad company to the plaintiff. Without discussing other features of the contracts, I am compelled to hold that
this feature is alone sufficient to render them in excess of the
corporate power of the company."
We now come to the important contract of July 1, 1881, between the Western Union Telegraph Company and the Union
Pacific Railway Company. As that contract is too lengthy to
be inserted at large in the body of this opinion, we have, in our
statement of the case, given such of its provisions as appear to
relate directly to the issues presented by the pleadings.
We have seen that the contract of July 1, 1881, was annulled
by the original dIecree of the Circuit Court, but was upheld by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, except as to the third and fourth
paragraphs, which were adjudged by that court to be null and
void to the extent that they secured and granted, or were intended to secure or grant, to the Western Union Telegraph Company any exclusive rights, privileges, or advantages whatsoever.
Much said in this opinion touching the agreements of 1866,
1869, and 1871, is applicable to that of 1881, and need not be
here repeated. We have no difficulty in holding that the
latter was invalid in the particulars named in the final decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. But that agreement is
illegal, not simply to the extent that it assumes to give to
the Western Union Telegraph Company exclusive rights and
advantages in respect of the use of the way of the railroad
company for telegraph business; but it-is also illegal because,
in effect, it transfers to the Western Union Telegraph Company the telegraphic franchise granted it by the Government
of the United States. The duty to maintain and operate a telegraph line between the points specified in the act of 1862 was
committed by Congress to certain corporations which it named,
and neither they, nor 'any corporation into which they were

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY.

,1

Opinion of the Court.

merged, could, withput the consent of Congress, invest a'state
corporation with exclusive telegraphic privileges on the liie
The
of the roads it then owned or thereafter acquired.
United States was not bound to look. to the Western Union
Telegraph Company for the discharge of the duties the performance of which, in consideration of the aid received from
the Government, the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and
other named companies, undertook to discharge for the, benefit of the United States and of 'the public. No agreement
with the, telegraph company, to which the assent of the Government was not given, could take from the railroad company
its right at any tinie to itself maintain and operate the tele,
graph line required by the act of 1862 for the use of the Government and of the public, nor impair the power of Congress
to require the performance by the railroad company itself of
the duties imposed by that hct. As to the object of the provisions of the agreement of 188.1, the Circuit Court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Brewer, properly said: ".They mean that the
telegraphic business and the telegraphic franchise, in the sense
we have defined it, should be exercised by the Western Union
Telegraph Company, and that -no other company, railway or
telegraph, should touch it. ' The -purpose was - a purpose disclosed by every section and line of the, contract -that the
public and commercial use of the telegraph wires should be,
long to the Western Union Company, leaving to the railroad
company only so much -of the telegraph wires as was neces
sary for its own business." , Again: "So it is that the-lessons
of experience support 'and establish the construction placed
upon the contract of 1881, to the. effect th'at the telegraphic
franchise, as a franchise' of independent, public, and, commer'
cial transportation, was intended to be and was transferred by
the railway company to the Western Union Company, leaving
only to the fornier so much use of telegraph wire as -would
facilitate and furtler its own railroad business."
That the purpose of' the agreement of 1881 was to transfer
to the Western Union Telegraph Company the telegraphic
franchises granted by the United States, was asserted by. that
company in a bill filed -by it (a copy of which is made a, part

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the present record) to prevent the Union Pacific Railway
Company from complying with the mandate of the act of
August 7, 1888. In that bill it was claimed that the parties
stipulated in the contract of 1881 that the telegraph company
"might render to the Government and to the public suc4 telegraph service as by the law of its creation it was bouhd to
perform." And the telegraph company stated, in the same
bill, that it had come about under that agreement, and through
the growth of the railroad business, that the railroad company
had " no wires on which it can do a general telegraph business,
all those devoted to its railroad business being overburdened
therewith." Again, in the same bill: "The said wires used
by the defendant in the operation of its road are not equal to
its necessities in that behalf, and it is impossible for it to do
any business for the public or other companies on said wires
without seriously interfering with and impeding the operation
of its engines, cars, and trains, and if it undertake to do so it
will be under the necessity of using your orator's five wires,
or some of them. Upon your orator's said wires is carried-on
almost the entire transcontinental business of the Union; nor
can your orator submit to any interference therewith by the
defendant or any other party without seriously impeding and
disarranging that business to its great loss and the public
inconvenienco." In addition to this, it may be stated that the
telegraph superintendent of the railway company testified in
this case that it would not be practicable to operate the wires
used by the railroad company "for general commercial business without seriously interfering with the railroad business,
and the railroad company's wires would be inadequate to
carry any additional business." This inquiry need not be
further extended, except to observe that there would be no
occasion to make the Western Union Telegraph Company a
defendant in this suit, and it would not have any standing in
court to complain of the act of August 7, 1888, if it did not
claim that the construction, or the maintenance and operation
by the railway company, through its own employis, of a
distinct telegraph line on the route of its road, for the use of
the Government and of the public, was in violation of the
contract it had made with the railroad company.

UNITED STATES v. UNION -PACIFIC RAILWAY.

49

Opinion of the Court.

The fundamental question, therefore, is whether such- a
contract was permitted by the acts of Congress defining the
obligations of railroad companies that had accepted ,the
bounty of the Government. For the reasons we have given
in the discussion of other parts of this case, we answer this
question in the negative. Such a contract is not authorized
by the fourth section of the Idaho act, or by the like section
(19th) of the act of 1862. The "arrangements" authorized
by those acts were not such as to admit of a contract that
gFould" disable tho railroad company from entering upon the
construction and maintenance itself of a telegraph line for the
accommodation of the Government'and of the public, or that
would prevent the United States from-requiring the railroad
company to maintain and operate a telegraph line to be entirely controlled by itself, and which would be wholly independent of any telegraph line operated by corporations created
under the laws of a State. And we may add what has been
said in reference to the prior agreements of 1866, 1869, and
1871, namely, that no railroad company, operating a post road
of the United States, over which interstate commerce is carried
on, can, consistently with the act of July 21, 1866, bind itself,
by agreement, to exclude from its roadway any telegraph company, incorporated under the laws of a State, which accepts the
provisions of that act, and desires to use such roadway for its
line in such manner as will not interfere with the ordinary
travel thereon.
On behalf of the telegraph company it is contended that it
was beyond the power of Congress to so legislate as "to impair the contracts, first, that between the United States and
the several companies mentioned in the act of 1862; and,
second, those between the railwayjcompany and this defendant." We perceive no ground on, which this contention can
properly rest. It ,has already been fully examiined. As we
have seen, Congress in the act of 1862 expressly reserved the
power not only to alter, amend, or repeal, that act, but to add
to its provisions. To what has already been said as to the
power of Congress, under this reserved power, we may add,
that the object of such reservation is to enable the legislative
VOL. CLX-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

department to protect the public interests, and "to preserve
to the State control over its contract with the corporators,
which without that provision would be irrepealable and protected from any measure affecting its obligation." Tomlinson
v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454, 457, 458.
Another contention of the telegraph company is that for
any failure or refusal by the railway company to comply with
sections one and two of the act of August 7, 1888, the remedy
of the United States is an action at law by mandamus, and
that equity is without jurisdiction to enforce a compliance
with those sections.
It cannot be doubted that the Government could lawfully
proceed by mandamus against the railway company for the
purpose simply of compelling it to perform any duty imposed
by its charter or by statute. But that remedy would not
afford the United States the full relief to which it is entitled.
Here are agreements between the railway company and the
telegraph company that are wholly inconsistent with the
present claims of the Government. Until cancelled -because
inconsistent with the act of 1888, and prejudicial to the rights
of the Government and the public - by a decree to which the
telegraph company is a party, those agreements constitute an
obstacle in the way of the enforcement of that act, and the
protection of those rights. In a mandamus proceeding by the
Government against the railway company, the telegraph company could not properly be made a defendant, and no judgment in mandamus, as between the United States and the
railway company, would conclude the rights of the telegraph
company. The United States is certainly entitled to the interposition of equity for the cancellation of the agreements
under which the telegraph company asserts rights inconsistent with the act of 1862 and the acts amendatory thereof, as
well as with the act of 1888. Jurisdiction in equity being acquired for that purpose, the court, in order to avoid a multiplicity of suits, can proceed to a decre6 that will settle all
matters in dispute between the United States, the railway
company, and the telegraph company which relate to the
general subject of telegraphic communication between the

UNITED STATES v. UNION- PACIFIC RAILWAY.

51

Opinion of the Court.

points named by Congress. Consequently a decree cancelling
the agreements of 1866, 1869, 1871; and 1881; by'reason of
their being in the way of thefull performance by, therailway
company of the duties imposed by the act of 1888, may also
require the railway company to obey the directions of Congress as given in the last named act.
Indeed, in a proceeding by mandamus instituted against the
railway company alone, it might be objected that a court of
competent jurisdiction, in a suit brought by the telegraph
company against the railroad company, had enjoined the
latter, as between it and the telegraph company, from dis-.
regarding the agreement of 1881. Atlantic & Pacific Tel.
Co. v. Union Pacific 1?ailkuay, 1 McCrary,,541; W-estern
Union Telegraph Co. v. Union Pacifc Railway, 3 Fed. Rep.
423; Same v. Same, 3 Fed. Rep. 721. It is true that the
United States, with leave of court, might have intervened
in that suit. But it was not bound to do so. It was entitled
to institute its own suit, and bring before the court both companies, to the end that its rights might be declared and enforced by a comprehensive decree against both defendants.
-, In Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet. '210, 215, this court said: "It
is not enough that there is aremedy at law; it must be plain
and adequate, or, in other words, as practical and efficient to
the ends of justice and its prompt administration as the remedy in equity." The circumstances of each case must determine the application of the rule. .Watson v. Sutherland, 5
Wall. 74, 79. In Oerichs v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211, 228, an objection was raised that the remedy at law was ample. The
court, observing that the remedy at law. was not as effectual
as in equity, said, among other things, that a "-direct proceeding in equity will save time, expense, and a multiplicity of
suits, and settle finally the rights of all concerned in one
litigation." The final order in a proceeding by mandamus
against the railway company would not conclude the rights
of the telegraph company. Nor would- a suit in equity, by
the telegraph company against the railway company conclude
the' rights of the United States. -But a suit In equity by the
United States against both companies -for the purpose of an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nulling the agreements under which the telegraph company
claims rights adverse to the United States, can embrace all
the matters in controversy and authorize a comprehensive decree that will terminate all disputes among the parties as to
such matters. Coosaw Mining Co. v, South Carolina, 144
U. S. 550, 567.

These principles are abundantly sustained by the authorities. In 1 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, § 181, many adjudged cases are cited in support of the proposition that "if
the controversy contains any equitable feature or requires
any purely equitable relief which would belong to the exclusive jurisdiction, or involves any matter pertaining to the concurrent jurisdiction, by means 9f which a court of equity would
acquire, as it were, a partial cognizance of it, the court may
go on to a complete adjudication, and may thus establish
purely legal rights and grant legal remedies which would
otherwise be beyond the scope of its authority." This principle was applied in Peck v. SohooZ Dist. &c., 21 Wisconsin, 516,
523. That was a suit to set aside a contract made by "the
officers of a municipality. The court held that the contract
should be set aside, and the question arose whether the decree
might not go farther and prevent the collection of the taxes
assessed and levied for the purposes of the contract adjudged
to be illegal. It was held that as the taxes were levied in
order to carry the illegal contract into effect, their collection
could be stayed as a proper subsidiary ground of relief, upon
the principle that the jurisdiction of the court having once
rightfully attached, it should be made effectual for all the
purposes of complete relief. "The court," it was said, "will
not annul the contract and at the same time permit the officers
of the district to collect the taxes to be afterwards recovered
back by a multiplicity of suits at law."
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court properly adjudged
that equity had jurisdiction to give full relief in respect of all
matters in issue between the United States and the defendant companies.
We perceive no substantial error in the decree passed by
the Circuit Court. There are some minor provisions in each

