OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 825. Argued November V], 1895. -Decided

January13,1896.

The act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, concerning Indian depredations, confers,
by ยง I, clause 1, no jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to adjudicate
upon such a claim, made by a person who was not a citizen of the United
States at the time when the injury was suffered, although he subsequently became so; nor by ยง.1, clause 2, unless the claim was one which,
on March 3, 1885, had either been examined and allowed by the Department of the Interior, or was pending therein for examination.

ON March 3, 1891, Congress passed an act, 26 Stat. 851,
c. 538, vesting certain jurisdiction in the Court of Claims, the

material portion of which is found in the first section, and
reads as follows:
"That in addition to the jurisdiction, which now is, or may
hereafter be, conferred upon the Court of Claims, said court
shall have and possess jurisdiction and authority to inquire
into and finally adjudicate,, in the manner provided in this
act, all claims of the following classes, namely:
"First. All claims for property of citizens of the United
States taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any band,
tribe, or nation, in ami.ty with the United States, without just
cause or provocation on the part of the owner or agent in
charge, and not returned or paid for.
"Second. Such jurisdiction shall also extend to all cases
which have been examined and allowed by the Interior Department and also to such cases as were authorized to be
examined under the act of Congress making appropriations
for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Departuient, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various
Indian tribes for the year ending June thirtieth, eighteen
hundred and eighty-six, and for other purposes, approved
March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-five, and under
subsequent acts, subject, however, to the limitations hereinafter provided."

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The act of March 3, 1885, c. 341, referred to in this second
clause, is found in 23 Stat. 362 and, following, and the clause
providing for examination is -on page 376, and is as follows:
"For the investigation of certain Indian depredation claims,
ten thousand dollars; and in expending said sum the Secretary of the Interior shall cause a complete list of all claims
heretofore filed in the Interior Department and which have
been approved in whole or in part and now remain unpaid,
and also all such claims as are pending but not, yet examined,
on behalf of citizens of the United States on account of depredations committed, chargeable against any tribe -of Indians
by reason of any treaty between such tribe and the United
States, including the name and address of the claimants, the
date of the alleged depredations, by what tribe committed,
the date of examination and approval, with a reference to
the date and clause of the treaty creating the obligation for
payment, to be made and presented to Congress at its next
regular session; and the Secretary is authorized and empowered, before making such report, to cause such additional
investigation to be made and such further testimony to be
taken as he may deem necessary to enable him to determine
the kind and value of all property damaged or destroyed by
reason of the depredations aforesaid, and by what tribe such
depredations were committed; and his report shall include
his determination upon each claim, together with the names
and residences of witnesses and the testimony of each, and
also what funds are now existing or to be derived by reason of
treaty or other obligation out of which the same should be paid."
The subsequent acts (May 18, 1886, c. 333, 24 Stat. 29, 44;
March 2, 1887, c. 320, 24 Stat. 449, 464; June 29, 1888, c. 503,
25 Stat. 217, 231; March 2, 1889, c. 412, 25 Stat. 980, 998;
August 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 336, 356) simply make additional
appropriations for the examination of the.same claims.
On June 20, 1891, claimant filed his petition in the Court
of Claims to recover for property taken from him on June 10,
1866, by the Ute Indians. Subsequently, and on November
17, 1893, he filed an amended petition, containing these allegations:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Your petitioner, Benjamin H. Johnson, a resident of Scipio,
Millard County,. in the Territory of Utah, and a citizen of the
United States, respectfully shows:
"That he was not a citizen of the United States on or about
the 10th day of June, 1866, the date of the loss hereinafter described, not having taken out his final citizenship papers until
18,73.
"That he moved to the United States in 1848, when he was
13 years old, and has resided here ever since, and was a citizen
of the United States at the date of the passage of the Indian
depredation law of March 3, 1891. 26 Statutes, chapter 538,
p.851.
"That it is admitted in allowing claims for Indian depredations under the act of March 3, 1885, chapter 341, (1 Sup.
iR. S. 2d ed. p. 913, note,) it has been the practice of the Interior Department to interpret the words 'citizens of the
United States,' therein used, as meaning only those who were
citizens or had declared their intention to become citizens at
the time the depredations were committed, and such citizenship was found when neither alleged nor testified to where
the contrary did not appear.
"That this claim was never presented to the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs nor to Congress, nor any agent nor department of the government."
Whereupon the defendants moved to dismiss on the ground
that "the claimant was not a citizen of the United States at
the time of the depredation alleged to have been committed,"
which motion was sustained, and on December 4, 1893, a
judgment entered dismissing the case for want of jurisdiction.
29 C. Cl. 1.
Mr. John Wharton O(Wrk for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howq'y for appellees.
M.. Jusro BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The principal question turns on the matter, of citizenship.
Claimant was a citizen at the time of the passage of the act of
1891,.but not when the wrongs complained of were committed.
Had the. Court of Claims jurisdiction?
That court has no general jurisdiction over claims against the
United States. It can take cognizance of only those matters
which by the terms of some act of Congress are committed to
it.

Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163.

Congress did not by the act of 1891 assume in behalf of the
United States. responsibility for all acts of depredation by
Indians, nor grant to the Court of Claims authority "to inquire
into and finally adjudicate." all claims therefor. It carefully
specified those which might be considered by that court.
By the first clause jurisdiction is given of "claims for property of citizens of the United States taken or destroyed."
But claimant has no such claim. It is for property of an
alien, taken and destroyed. True, he is now a citizen, and
was at the time of the passage of the act. But the language
is not "claims of citizens for property," which might include.
his case. The definition is of the character of the claim and
not of the status of the claimant; if the property was not
when taken or destroyed the property of a citizen, a claim
therefor was at that time clearly outside the statute; and
while the status of the claimant may have changed, the nature
of the claim has not. Suppose the property tal.en or destroyed had at the time belonged to a citizen, and an alienhad
succeeded by inheritance to the right to recover compensation
for its loss or destruction, is it not clear that such alien would
have a claim within the very terms of the act for property of
a -citizen taken and destroyed, and upon what construction of
its language could the court have refused to take jurisdiction.
Further, the property must have been taken or destroyed by
Indians "in amity with the United States." Clearly that Xefers to the status of the Indians at the time ,of the depredation. Any other construction would lead to manifest
absurdities. The certainty of this date renders equally certain
the date at which citizenship must exist in the owner of the
property taken or destroyed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Much was said in argument and many authorities are cited
in the briefs in respect to the difference between retrospective
and prospective statutes, but we fail to see the pertinency of
this discussion. Obviously the act is prospective in its operation, in that it grants to the Court of Claims a jurisdiction it
did not theretofore possess, and authorizes it in the future to
hear and determine certain claims. But as to the claims thus
committed to its consideration the statute is expressly retrospective. The last proviso in section 2 reads: "Andprovid6d
further, That no suit or proceeding shall be allowed under this
act for any depredation which shall be committed after the
passage thereof." The only question for determination in this
case is whether the claim presented is within either of the
classes of past wrongs which are submitted by the act to the
jurisdiction of the court. And, for the reasons given, we are
clear that it does not come within the first clause defining
such jurisdiction.
Is it within the second clause? By that, jurisdiction is extended to "cases which have been examined and allowed by
the Interior Department, and also to such cases as were authorized to be examined under the act of Congress" of March
3, 1885, and subsequent acts. As the claimant alleges in his
petition that his claim was never presented to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, nor to Congress, nor any agent, nor
department of the government, it was not a case which had
been examined or allowed by the Interior Department, and
does not come under the first of the two classes named. We
turn, therefore, to the act of March 3, 1885, to see what cases
were authorized to be examined under it.
It appropriates ten thousand dollars for the investigation of
certain Indian depredation claims, and in describing them it
mentions such claims as had been theretofore filed in the Interior Department and approved in whole or in part, and adds
"also all such claims as are pending but not yet examined, on
behalf of citizens of the United States on account of depredations committed." In order to come within the second
class, the claim must be one on behalf of a citizen of the
United States, and also one pending but not yet examined.

JOHNSON .v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

If it be assumed that claimant was on March 3, 1885, a citizen,
as may be inferred from the language of the petition, although
not explicitly averred, the question arises whether the different phraseology of that act would include a claim in his favor,
although he was not a citizen at the time of the depredation.
But passing that question,: the claim must be one then "pending but-not yet examined," and this language, taken in connection with the words descriptive of the.prior class, manifestly
refers to such claims as had been presented for examination,
and so, in a technical sense of the term, were pending, and
does not embrace all cases of depredations whether claims
therefor-had been presented or not.
We, are aware of the fact that the Interior Department,
acting under an opinion of its chief law clerk, of August 23,
1886, has construed the authority given by the second clause
of this act to reach to all claims existing and not barred,
whether at the date of the act on file or not in the Interior
Department. We quote from that opinion, approved by the
Assistant Secretary, as:follows:
"I am of the opinion, however, that all claims that were
not barred March 3, 1885, are included within the claims to be
investigated, although filed after the passage of either the act
of 1885 or 1886, because the act of May 29, 1872, and the.
rules and regulations made in pursuance thereof, require the
Secretary of, the Interior to investigate such claims and make
report thereof to Congress in the same manner as provided
for by the act of March 3, 1885. This act and the rules and
regulations adopted by the Secretary, as provided for by said
act, are not repugnant to any provision of section 2156, but
provide for the, enforcement and execution of that section.
As no statutory bar 'attaches to any claim for depredations
committed since the adoption of the Revised Statutes, such
claims may be filed at any time."
We are unable to concur in the views thus expressed.
Without stopping to inquire whether. ยง 2156, Rev. Stat., may
or may not be repealed by this act of March 3, 1885, and conceding for the purposes of this case that such section remains
in full force and effect, we are of the opinion that the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

March 3, 1885, is special and limited in its scope. It purports
to be limited, for it is for the investigation of "certain Indian
depredation claims." Not only is it by these words restricted,
but the meagreness of the appropriation, $10,000, indicates
*the narrowness of the investigation intended, and the limited
number of claims which were designed to be examined. The
claims to be reported are defined. First, those which "have
been approved." This necessarily limits, so far as this portion
of the section is concerned, the report to those claims presented, considered, and acted upon by the Interior Department.
It refers to what has been and not to what may be. It
defines and includes not claims which might thereafter be
presented and investigated, but those which at the date of
the act had been finally passed upon and determined by the
Interior Department. There is no possibility of construction
which would open this clause to include any claims other than
those already considered and determined by the department.
The other clause of the section describes "such claims as are
pending, but not yet examined."
That either means such
claims as have been already presented and are before the
department for consideration, or it includes all unallowed
claims then existing and not barred. If the latter was the
thought of Congress in this enactment, there was no need of
a division into classes, for the one description of claims existing would include all, both those allowed and those not yet
examined and allowed; those filed and those not filed. The
obvious intent was not to reach all Indian claims, but. to call
from the Interior Department a statement of the claims then
before the department, and upon such presentation to determine its future action. And the purpose of the second clause
in the act of March 3, 1891, was to take the cases which on
March 3, 1885, were pending in the department and transfer
them in bulk to the Court of Claims.
It follows, therefore, that this claim having never been filed
in the department, does not come within the category of
claims provided for in the second clause of the act conferring
jurisdiction upon the court.
It was further insisted in the argument that the claimant

