OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

pears to us to have proceeded upon too narrow a construction
of the section, inconsistent alike with its words and with its
purose.
Judgment affirmd.

UNITED STATES v. HEALEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIM.
No. 878.

Argued October 22, 23,1895. .- Declded December 2,1895.

The act of March 8, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, providing for the sale of desert lands in certain States and Territories, does not embrace alternate
sections, reserved to the United States, along the lines of railroads for
the construction of which Congress has made grants of lands.
Cases initiated under that act, but not completed, by final proof, until after
the passage of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, were left
by the latter act, as to the price to be paid for the lands entered, to be
governed by the law in force at the time the entry was made.
When the practice in a department in interpreting a statute is uniform, and
the meaning of the statute, upon examination, is found to be doubtful or
obscure, this court will accept the interpretation by the department as
the true one; but where the departmental practice has not been uniform,
the court must determine for itself what is the true interpretation.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
XT. Assistant Attorney GeneralDodge for appellant.
George E. Gorman was on his brief.

Xr.

Xr. Earvey S auhding for appellee.
MR. JusicE

iARirA
delivered

the opinion of the court.

On the 5th day of February, 1889, the appellant, Benjamin
Healey, filed in the local land office at Visalia, California, a
declaration of his intention to reclaim a tract of land containing 639.20 acres, and belonging to the United States.
The declaration stated all the facts required in the cases
embraced by the act of Congress of March 3, 1877, c. 107, providing for the sale of "desert lands" in certain States and
Territories. 19 Stat. 377; Supp. Rev. Stat. 2d ed. 137. That
act fixed $1.25 per acre as the price of such lands.

ITITED STATES v. HEALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

137

-

The lands described in the declaration constituted one of
the alternate reserved sections of public lands reserved to the
United States, along the line of the railroad extending frobi
the States of Missouri and Arkansas to the Pacific coast, for
the c6nstruction of which provision was made by the act of
Congress of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, 294.
At the time of filing his declaration the plaintiff - " being
so required, without protest and without taking any steps for
relief against the demand of the receiver" - paid the sum of
$319.60, or .50. cents per acre, for the lands described. He
made, September 21, 1891, satisfactory proof of the reclamation of the tract in question and, without protest, paid for the
land reclaimed, in addition to the amount paid at the time of
filing his declaration, the sum of $1278.40, or $2 per acre; in
all, $2.50 per acre. A patent was thereupon issued to him.
This action was brought against the United States to recover the sum of $799, which amount, it is claimed, was in
excess of what the receiver was entitled to demand from the
appellee -his contention being that the statute only required
the payment of 25 cents per acre at the time of filing his declaration, and $1 per acre more when making his final proof;,
in all, $1.25 per acre.
The Court of Claims sustained this demand, and gave judgment in favor of the appellee for $799.
An examination of the statutes regulating the sale of the
public lands is necessary in order to determine the question
now presented. That question is, whether the act of 1877,
providing for the sale of "desert lands," embraces alternate
sections reserved to the United States, along the line of railroads for the construction of which Congress made a grant of
lands.
By the act of April 24, 1820, making further provision for "
the sale of the public lands, 3 Stat. 566, c. 51, it was provided
that from and after the first day of July thereafter no lands
should be sold, either at public or private sale, for less than
one dollar and twenty-five cents an acre.
The next act referred to in the opinion of the Court of
Claims is that of September 4, 1841, c. 16, appropriating the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of the sales of the public lands and granting preemption rights. 5 Stat. 453, 455. That act allowed every
person of the class described in it to enter not exceeding one
hundred and sixty acres or one quarter-section of public land,
upon paying the minimum price therefor, subject, however,
to certain limitations and exceptions, one of which was that
"no sections of land reserved to the United States alternate
to other sections granted to any of the States for the con.
struction of any canal, railroad, or other public improvement"
should be liable to entry under that act. § 10.
By the act of March 3, 1853, c. 143, the preemption laws
of the United States, as they then existed, were extended over
the alternate reserved sections of public lands along the lines
of all railroads for the construction of which public lands had
been or might thereafter be granted by acts of Congress. But
that act .contained a proviso declaring that "the price to be
paid shall in all cases be $2.50 per acre, or such other minimum
price as is now fixed by law or may be fixed upon. lands hereafter granted." 10 Stat. 244.
Other enactments show that Congress steadily held to the
policy of requiring double the minimum price for alternate
sections of public lands reserved to the United States in grants
to aid in the construction of railroads. In the first grant of
this character - that of September 20, 1850, to the States of
Illinois, Mississippi, and Alabama of alternate even-numbered
sections in aid of the construction of a railroad from Chicago
to Mobile - it was provided "that the sections and parts of
sections of land which, by such grant, shall remain to theUnited States, within six miles on each side of said road and
branches, shall not be sold for less than double the minimum
price of the public lands when sold." 9 Stat. 466, c. 61, § 3.
A similar provision will be found in nearly all, if not in all,
subsequent acts making grants of public lands for the construction of railroads.'
'1852,

10 Stat. 8, c. 45, § 2; 1853, id. p. 155, c.59, § 3; 1856, 11 Stat. 9,

c. 28, § 2; id. p. 15, c.31, § 16; id. p. 17, c. 41, § 2; id. p. 18, c. 42, § 2; id.

p. 20, c. 43, § 2; id. p. 21, e. 44, § 2; id. p. 30, c.83, § 2; 1857, id. p. 195,
c. 99, § 2; 1863, 12 Stat. 772, c. 98, § 2;-1864, 13 Stat: 66, c.80, § 4; id. p.

UNITED STATES v. HALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

An examination of these acts makes it clear that up to the
revision of the statutes of the United States, it was the settled
policy of the government to hold for sale, at a price ndt less
than double the minimum price of public lands, all alternate
reserved sections on the lines of railroads constructed with the
aid of.the Uhited States.
That policy was recognized in section 2357 of the Revised
Statutes; which provides that "the price at which the public
lands are offered for sale shall he one dollar and twenty-five
cents an acre; and at every public sale, the highest bidder,
who makes payment as provided in the preceding section,
shall be the purchaser; but no land shall be sold, either i
public or private sale, for a less price than one dollar and
twenty-five cents an acre; and all the public lands which are
hereafter offered at public sale, according to law, and remain
unsold at the close, of such public sales, shall be subject to be
sold at private sale, by entry at the land office, at one dollar
and twenty-five cents an acre, to be paid .at. the time of making such entry: Provided,That the price to be paidfor aZternate reserved lands, along the line of,railroadswithin the limits
grantedby any act qf Congress, shall be two .dollars and fifty
cents per acre."
It is to be observed, in passing, that this proviso applies to all
alternate reserved lands described in any act of Congress, and
makes no exception.of any.landh of that class on account: of
their fitness or unfitness, in their natural condition, for agricultural purposes.'
Thus the law stood at the date of the act of MAarch 3, 1877,
c. 107, providing for the sale of "desert lands" in certain
States and Territories. 19 Stat. 377, c. 107. That act is as
follows:
"That it shall be lawful for any citizen of the United
States, or any person of requisite age 'who may. be entitled
to become a citizen, and who has filed his declaration to be72, c. 84., § 2; id. p. 365, c. 217, § 6; 1866, id. p. 526, c. 105, § 4; 1866, 14 Stat.
83, c. 165, § 3; id. p. 87, c. 168, § 2; id. p. 94, c. 182, § 5; id. p. 210, c. 212,
§ 2; id. p. 236, c. 241, § 2; id. 239, c. 242, § 2; 1867, id. p. 548, c. 189; § 5;
1870, 16 Stat. 94, c. 69, § 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

come such' and upon payment of -twenty-five cents per acre
- to file a declaration under oath with the register and the
receiver of the land district in which any desert land is situated, that he intends to reclaim a tract of desert land not
exceeding one section, by conducting water upon the same,
within the period of three years thereafter: Provided,however, That the right to the use of water by the person so
conducting the same, on or to any tract of desert land of
six hundred and forty acres shall depend upon bona fide prior
appropriation: and such right shall not exceed the amount of
water actually appropriated, and necessarily used for the purpose of irrigation and reclamation: and all surplus water over
and above such actual appropriation and use, together with
the water of all lakes, rivers and other sources of water
supply upon the public lands and not navigable, shall remain
and be held free for the appropriation and use of the public
for irrigation, mining, and manufacturing purposes subject
to existing rights. Said declaration shall describe particularly
said section of land if surveyed, and, if unsurveyed, shall describe the same as nearly as possible without a survey. At
any time within the period of three years after filing said
declaration, upon making satisfactory proof to the register
and receiver of the reclamation of said tract of land in the
manner aforesaid, and upon the payment to the receiver of
the additional sum of one dollar per acre for a tract of land
not; exceeding six hundred and forty acres to any one person,
a patent for the same shall be issued to him: Provided, That
no person shall be permitted to enter more than one tract of
land and, not to exceed six hundred and forty acres which
shall be in compact form.
"SEOTioN 2. That all lands exclusive of timber lands and.
mineral lands which will not, without irrigation, produce some
agricultural crop, shall be deemed desert lands, within the
meaning of this act, which fact shall be ascertained by proof
of two or more credible witnesses under oath, whose affidavits
shall be filed in the land office in which said tract of land may
be situated.
"SEorioN 3. That this act shall only apply to and take

UNITED STATES

HEAY.

Opinion of the Court.

effeot in the States of California," Oregon, and Nevada, and
the Territories of Washington, Idaho, Montana, Utah,-Wyom-.
ing, Arizona, New Mexico, and Dakota, and the. determination
of what may be considered desert land shall be subject to the
decision and .regulation of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office."'
It is said that the administration of this act by the Interior
Department for many years succeeding its passage was upon the
theory that "desert lands" (unless they Were timber and mineral lands) included all public lands in the States and Territories na;med that required irrigati6n - even if they were
alternate reserved sections alolg the lines of land-grant
railroads. The object of this suggestion 'isto bring the
present case within the rule, often announced, that when the
meaning of a statute is doubtful great weight should be given
to the construction placed upon it by the Departmnent charged
with its execution where that construction has, for many
years, controlled the conduct of the public business.' Edazwrds
v. -Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; _te
d States v. P'hhrick, 120
U. S. 52, 59; Robertson v. Downing,.127 UT. S. 607, 613.
Let us see what has' been the practice in the Interioi
Department in cases arising, or which have been treated as
having arisen, under the act of 1877.
As soon as that act was passed, the Commissioner of the
Land Office issued a circular, addressed to the registers and
Teceivers of land offices,, in which he said that, after the
applicant for a patent for "desert Ilands" had made the required proof, the officer should receive from him the sum of
twenty-five cents per acre for the land applied for, and after
the expiration of the peri6d named in the statute, and upon
proof. that water had beeh conducted 'upon the .land, he
should receive the additional payment of one dollar per acre.
But it does not 'appear that the Commissioner intended to
make any ruling upon the'specific question whether the act of
1877 embraced alternate reserved sectionsalong the line of
land-grant railroads. 'No reference is made by him to the
proviso of section 2357 of the Revised Statutes.. Nevertheless,
tor many years after tho passage of the act of 1877 it was held

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Department that "lands entered under that act should
be paid for at the rate of' $1.25 per acre without regard to
railroad limits." 14 Land Dec. 75.
But the ptecise question before the court was considered by
the Land Office at a later date and a new policy was inaugurated. In a circular from that office, of date June 27, 1887,
it was distinctly stated that "the price at which lands may be
entered under the desert land act is the same as under the preemption law, viz., single minimum lands at $1.25 per acre, and
double minimum lands at $2.50 per acre " - the Commissioner
referring, in his circular, to section 2357 of the Revised
Statutes as his authority for that regulation. That circular
received the approval of Secretary Lamar. 5 Land Dec. 708.
-712.
-In Tilton's case, decided March 25, 1889, the point was
made that the desert land act of 1877, being sibsequent in
point of time to section 2357, must control as to all lands that
,r~quired irrigation.
Secretary Noble, after observing that
these. statutes were parts of one general system of laws regulating the disposal of the public domain, and, therefore, to be
regarded as explanatory of each other and to-be construed as
if they were one law, said: "Under such construction, section
357 of the Revised Statutes and the desert land act do not
conflict but each has a separate and appropriate field of
'operation; the former, regulating the price of desert lands
reserved to the United States along railway lines; and the
latter, the price of other desert lands not so located. There is
nothing in the nature of the case which renders it proper that
desert lands be made an exception to the general rule any
more than lands entered under the preemption laws. Lands
reserved to the United States along 'the line of railroads are
made double minimum in price because of their enhanced
valie in consequence of the proximity of such roads. Desert
lands subject to reclamation are as much liable to be increased
in value by proximity to railroads as any othei class of
lands, and hence the reason of the law applies to them as well
as to other public lands made double minimum in price.
To hold desert lands an exception to the general rule regulating

UNITED STATES v. IEALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the price of lands reserved along the lines of railroads, would
be to make the laws on this subject inharmonious and incon-.
sistent." 8 Land Dec. 368, 369. Ther same ruling was made,'
by the Interior Department July 2, 1889, in Rnaggs' case, the
Secretary saying that "the Department. construes the. desert
land act as Atxing the price of desert land within railroad limits at two dollars and fifty cents afn acre." 9 Land Dec.
49, 50. A like decision was made in Wkeeler's case, August
16, 1889, and in Reeses case, May 9, 1890. 9 Land Dec. 271;
10Land Dec. 541.
This brings us to the act of Congress of March 3, 1891,
entitled "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other
purposes." 26 Stat. 1095, c. 561.
The second section of that act provides that the above act
of 1877, providing for the sale of desert lands in certain States
and Territories, "is hereby amended by adding thereto the
following sections." Then follow five sections, numbered four
to eight inclusive, which were added to: the statute of 1877.
Sections 6 and 7 of the sections so added to the act of 1877
are in these words:
" SEo., 6. That this act shall not affect any valid rights heretofore accrued under said act of March third, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, .but all bona jde claims heretofore
lawfully initiated may be Perfected, upon due compliance with
the provisions of said act, in the same manner, upon the same
terms and conditions, and subject to the same limitations, for-feitures, and contests as if this act had not been passed; or
said claims, at the option of the claimant, may be perfected
and patented, under the provisions of said act, as amended by
this act, so far as applicable; and all acts and parts of acts in
conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
"1SEo. 7. That at any time after filing the declaration, and
within the period of four years. thereafter, upon making satisfactory proof to the register and receiver of the reclamation
and cultivation of. said land to the extent and cost and in the
manner aforesaid, and substantially in accordance with the
plans herein prdvided for, and -that he 'or she is a citizen of'
the United States, and. upon payment. to the receiver of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

additional sum of one dollar per acre for said land, a patent
shall issue therefor to the applicant or his assigns; but no
person or association of persons shall hold by assignment or
otherwise prior to the issue of patent, more than three hundred and twenty acres of such arid or desert lands; but this
section shall not apply to entries made or initiated prior to
the approval of this act.

.

.

.'

In Gardiner'8 Case, 1894, 19 Land Dec. 83- which was
the case of an entry made in 1889, the final proof, however,
not being furnished until after the passage of the act of 1891
- the present Secretary referred to the above seventh section
of the act of 1891, and to the decision of Secretary Noble in
14: Land Dec. 74, and said:
"This section operates upon entries then existing, as well
as upon subsequent entries of desert land. It contains the
following language: ' But no person or association of persons
shall hold by assignment or otherwise prior to the issue of
patent more than three hundred and twenty acres of such
arid or desert lands; but this section shall not apply to entries
made or initiated prior to the approval of this act.' The words,
'but this seetior' do not, in my opinion, relate to the provisions of the entire section, but do relate simply to the quantity
of lands which one person could thereafter enter, and the word
'section,' in the above act quoted, should be construed to
mean 'provision.' It would then read: 'But this _provisiorn
shall not apply to entries made prior to the passage of this
act.' This is manifest, in my judgment, from the fact that
the act of 1891 is similar to the act of 1877-of which the
act of 1891 was amendatory- in reference to the price to be
paid for desert lands, and it amends the act of 1877 as to the
quantity of land' that couid be entered by any one person or
association of persons. Evidently the words above quoted,
taken from the act of 1891, were intended by Congress to
limit the operation of the act to entries thereafter to be made,
as to the quantity of land, and saved all-entries theretofore
made, as to the quantity of land; but it was not intended to
limit the benefits as to price to such entries as might be made
subsequently to the date of the passage of the act. The

UNITED STATES v. HEALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

declaration in this case was made March 11, 1889; and'before
reclamation was completed as requiied by the statute, the act
of 1891 was passed, which, as construed by Secretary Noble,
fixed the price at one dollar and a quarter per acre, regardless
of location.. Construing the act as I do, as to the price the
entryman should be required to pay for desert land, I am of
opinion that this entryman should be allowed to purchase at.
one dollar and a quarter per acre."
A similar ruling was made (1895) in OrgW's Cae, 20 Land
Dec. 406.
From this review of the administration by the Interior Department of the act of 1877, it appears that, for ten years after
the passage of thatact, "desert lands," even if they were alternate reserved sections along the lines of land-grant railroads,
could be obtained from the government at the price of '$1.25
per acre; that after June 27, 1887, and until the passage of the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, the act of 1877 was administered
upon the theory that it did not modify or conflict with section
2357 of the Revised Statutes, and therefore did not include
alternate sections reserved to the United States along the line
of land-grant railroads, the price for which was fixed at $2.50
per acre; that the act of 1891 was interpreted to mean 0l
desert lands, those within as well as.those without the granted
limits of a railroad, and to authorize their sale at. $1.25 per
acre; and that cases initiadunder the act of 1877 should, in
respect .to price per acre of lands, be completed according to
the terms prescribed by the act of 1891.
If, prior to the passage of the act of 1891, the Interior
Department had uniformly interpreted the act of 1877 as reducing the price of alternate reserved sections of land along
the lines of land-grant railroads, being desert lands, from $2.50
to $1.25 per acre, we should acrept that interpretation as the
true one, if, upon examining the statute, we found its meaning
to be at all doubtful or obscure. But as the practice of the
Department has not been uniform, we deem it our duty to determine the true interpretation of the act of 1877, without
reference to the practice in the Department.
Did the act of 1877 supersede or modify the proviso of sec
VOL. CLX-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion 2357 of the Revised Statutes, which expressly declared
that the price to be paid for alternate reserved lands along
the line of railroads, -within the limits defined by any act of
Congress, should be two dollars and fifty cents per acre?
The principal, if not the only, object of the requirement that
the alternate reserved sections along the lines of land-grant
railroads should not be sold for less than double the minimum
price fixed for other public lands, was to compensate the
'United States for the loss of the sections given away by the
government.
The act of 1877 and the proviso of section 2857 of the Revised Statutes both relate to public lands; the former, to desert lands, that is, such lands - not timber and mineral lands
- as required irrigation in order to produce agricultural crops,
and the price for which was $1.25 per acre; the latter, to
such lands, along the line of railroads, as were res.erved to the
United States in any grant made by Congress, and the price
.for which was $2.50 per acre. As the statute last enacted
contains no words of repeal, and as repeals of statutes by implication merely are never favored, our duty is to give effect
to both the old and new statute,. if that can be done consistently with the words employed by Congress in each. We
perceive no difficulty in holding that the desert lands referred
to in the act of 1877 are those in the States and Territories
specified, which required irrigation before they could be used
for agricultural purposes, but which were not alternate sections reserved by Congress in a railroad land gtant. It is as
if the act of 1877, in terms, excepted from its operation such
lands as are described in the proviso of section 2357 of the
Revised Statutes. " Thus construed, both statutes can be given
the fullest effect which the words of each necessarily require.
In the absence of some declaration that Congress intended to
modify the long-established policy indicated by the proviso of
section 2357 of the Revised Statutes, we ought not to suppose
that there was any purpose to except from that proviso any
public lands of the kind therein described, even if, without
irrigation they were unprofitable for agricultural purposes.
To hold that alternate sections along the lines of a railroad

UNITED STATES v. HEALEY.
Opinion ofl the Court.

aided by a grant of public lands, being also- desert lands,
could be obtained, under the act of 1817, at one dollar and
twenty-five cents an acre, would be to modify the previous
law by implication merely. In Frost v. Mnie, 157 U. S. 46,
58, we said: "It is well settled that repeals by implication
are not to be favored. And where two statutes cover, in
whole or in part, the same matter, and are not absolutely
irreconcilable, the duty of the court-no purpose to repeal
being clearly expressed or indicated - is,"if possible, to gi.ve
effect to both. In other words, it must not be supposed that
the legislature intended by a statute to repeal a prior one on
the same subject, unless the last statute is so broad inoits terms'
and'so clear and explicit in its words as to show that it was
intended to cover the whole subject, and, therefore, to displace
the prior statute."
Giving effect to these rules of interpretation, we hold that
Secretaries Lamar and Noble prpperly decided that the act of
1877 did not supersede the proviso of section 2351 of the
Revised Statutes, and, therefore, did not embrace alternate
sections reserved to the United States bk az railroad land
gTant.
It results that prior to the passage of the act of 1891, lands
such as those here in suit, although within the general description of desert lands, could not properly be disposed of at
less than $2.50 per acre. Was a different rule prescribed by
that act in relation to entries made previously to its passage?
If it be true, as seems to have been held by the Interior
Department, that the act of 1877,as amended by that of 1891,
embraces alternate reserved sections along the lines of landgrant railroads that require irrigation in order to fit them for
.agricultural 'purposes

-upon

which question we express, no

opinion -it
is necessary to determine whether a case begun,
as .this one was, prior to the passage of the act of 1891 is controlled by the law as it was when the original entry was made.
This question is important in view of the fact that the appellee's. entry was made under the act of 1877, before it was
amended, and his final proof was made after the act of 1891
took effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The present Secretary of the Interior, as we have.seen, held
that entries initiated under the act of 1877 and prior to the

act of.1891 could be completed upon the terms fixed by the
latter act as to price of desert lands. If that construction be
correct, and if the plaintiff is not precluded from recovering
money voluntarily paid by him, with full knowledge of all
the facts, then the judgment below was right. Otherwise, it
must be reversed.
We are of opinioli that the act of 1891 did not authorize the
lands in dispute to be sold at $1.25 per acre, where; as in this
case, the proceedings to obtain them were begun before its
passage.
Although the act of 1891 was, in some particulars, clumsily
drawn, it is manifest that the words "this act," in the section
added by it to the act of 1877 and numbered six, refer to the
act of 1891, and that the words "said act" refer to the act of
1877. It is equally clear that the purpose of that section, thus
added to the former act, was to preserve the right to perfect
all bonayfide claims "lawfully initiated" under the act of 1877,
and "upon the same 'terms and conditions" as were prescribed in that act. It is true that the claimant, at his option,
could perfect his claim, thus initiated, and have the lands
patented under the act of 1877, as amended by that of 1891,
so far as the latter act was applicable to the case. Buit this
did not mean that land entered under the act of 1877, when
the price was $2.50 per acre, could be patented, after the passage of the act of 1891, upon paying only $1.25 per acre.
If any doubt could exist as to the object of section six,
added by the act of 1891 to the act of 1877 - to which section
the attention of the present Secretary seems not to have been
drawn - that doubt must be removed by the explicit language
of added section seven. The latter section fixes the price of
desert lands at $1.25 per acre, and declares that "this section
shall not apply to entries made or initiated prior to the apis, to entries made prior to the
proval of this act" -that
approval of the act of 1891. The Secretary construed the
word "section" to mean "provision," and as referring, not to
the entire section, but only to the clause or provision relating

