DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tered. Walker v. Sauvinzet, 92 U. S. 90 ; Davidson v. .3ew Orleans, 96.U. S. 97; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22"-Jallnger
v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314.
The plaintiff in error is, indeed, not a citizen of Louisiana,.
but he concedes that, as respects his property in that State, he
has received the same measure of right as that awarded to its
citizens, and we are unable to seel in the light of the Federal
Constitution, that he has been deprived of his property without due process of law, or been denied the equal protection of
the laws.
The decree of the court below is.
Affirmed.
M . JUSTIe BREWER dissented.

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 598. Submitted October 80, 1895. -Decided December 16, 1895.
If it appears, on the trial of a person accused of committing the crime of
murder, that the deceased was killed by the accused under circumstances
which-nothing else appearing-made a case of murder, the jury cannot properly return a verdict of guilty of the offence charged if, upon the
whole evidence, from whichever side it comes, they hare a reasonable
doubt whether, at the time of killing, the accused was mentally competent
to distinguish between right and wrong, or to understand the nature of
the act he was committing.
No man should be deprived of his life under the forms of law unless the
jurors who try him are able, upon their consciences, to say that the
evidence before them, by whomsoever adduced, is sufficient to show
beyond a reasonable doubt the existence of every fact necessary to constitute the crime charged.

THE plaintiff in error was indicted for murder, tried in
the court below, and convicted. In the opinion of this court
the issue brought here for decision is stated as follows. "The

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

court below instructed the jury that the defence of insanity
could not avail the accused unless it appeared affirmatively, to
the reasonable satisfaction of the jury, that he was not criminally responsible for his acts. The fact of killing being
clearly proved, the legal presumption, based upon -the common experience of mankind, that every man is sane, was
sufficient, the court in effect said, to authorize a verdict of
guilty, although the jury might entertain a reasonable doubt
upon the evidence, whether the accused, by reason of his
mental condition, was criminally responsible for the killing in
question. In other words, if the evidence was in equilibrio as
to the accused being sane,that is, capable of comprehending
the nature and effect of his acts, he was to be treated just as
he would be if there were no defence of insanity or -if there
were an entire absence of proof that he was insane."
iNo appearance for plaintiff' in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickison -for defendants
in error.
There is much conflict of authority on the proposition as
to whether the judge should charge the jury that they must
acquit if the whole evidence raises a reasonable doubt in their
minds as to whether the defendant is sane or not.
The doctrine in England is well settled that the burden is
on the defendant to establish his insanity to the reasonable
satisfaction of the jury. Russell on Crimes, 9th ed. 525;
Roscoe on Criminal Evidence, 7th ed. 975; Foster's Crown
Law, 225.
In .Mc-Yaghten's case, 10 C1. & Finn. 200, the question of
insanity as a defence in criminal cases having been made the
subject of debate in the House of Lords, the opinion of the
judges on the law governing such cases was taken, and on
the point here involved the answer was that "the jurors ought
to be told that every man is presumed to be sane and to possess a sufficient degree of reason to be responsible for his
crimes until the contrary be proved to their satisfaction."

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

The law so declared has been acquiesced in in England..
In this country there are two lines of authorities. The
following hold the doctrine that the burden of proof is on the
defendant to establish insanity to the reasonable satisfaction
of the jury, some of the cases using the language that it must
be established by a preponderance of the evidence. These
authorities Will all be cited together as adverse to the contention that only. a reasonable doubt must be raised.: Rice's
Criminal Evidence, vol. 3, § 398, 399 ; Wharton on Homicide,
§ 668; Wharton on Criminal Evidence, § 340; Wharton on
Criminal Law, 7th ed. § 54; Greenleaf on Evidence, vol. 2,
§ 373; vol. 3, § 5. Alabama: Boswell v. State, 63 Alabama,
307; Parsons v. State, 81 Alabama, 577; Gunter v. State, 83
Alabama, 96; Maxwell v. State, 89 Alabama, 150. Arkansas:
Coates v. State,' 50 Arkansas, 330; Bolling v. State, 54 Arkansas, 588. California: People v. 3oDonell,47 California, 134;
People v. Bawden, 90 California, 195 ; People v. Travers, 88
California, 233; People v. Bemmerly, 98 California, 299.
Georgia: Fogarty v. State, 80 Georgia, 450, 455. Iowa:
State v. Bruce, 48 Iowa, 530; State v. Trout, 74 Iowa, 545.
Kentucky: 1&iel v. Commonwealth, 5 Bush, 362; Joore v.
Commonwealth, 18 S. W. Rep. 833. Louisiana: State v. Coleman, 27 La. Ann. 691; State v. Burns, 25 La. Ann. 302;
State v. De Rance, 34 La. Ann. 186. -Maine: State v. Lawrence, 57 Maine, 574. Massachusetts: Commonwealth v.
Rogers, 7 Met. 500; Commonwealth v. Eddy, 7 Gray, 583.
Minnesota: State v. iHaney, 34: Minnesota, 430. Missouri:
State v. cfcoCoy, 34: Missouri, 531; State v. Redemeier, 71 Missouri, 173 ; State _. Pagels, 92 Missouri, 300 ; State v. Shaefer,
22 S. W. Rep. 447. Nevada: State v. Lewis, 20 Nevada, 333.
New Jersey: State v. Spencer, 1 Zabriskie, 196. North Carolina:
State v. Starling, 6 Jones, 366; State v. YTann, 82 N. C. 631;
State v. Davis, 109 N. C. 780. Ohio: Loefhner v. State, 10 Ohio
St. 598; Bond v. State, 23 Ohio St. 349. Pennsylvania: Commonwealth v. _Aoler, 4 Penn. St. 264; Otwein v. Commonwealth, 76 Penn. St. 414; Pannellv. Commonwealth, 86 Penn.
St. 260; Commonwealth v. Gerade, 145 Penn. St. 289. South
Carolina: State v. Bundy, 24. S. C.. 439 ;. State v. Alexandoer,

OCTOBER TERM:, 1895.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

30 S. 0. 74. Texas: Webb v. State, 9 Tex. App. 490; _Leache
v. State, 22 Tex. App. 279. Utah: People v. Dillon, 8 Utah,
9!k Virginia: Baccigalupo v. Commonwealth, 33 Gratt. 807.
West Virginia : State v. Strauder,11 W. Va. 747.
The following hold that if the evidence raises a reasonable
doubt of sanity the jury must acquit: Thompson on Trials,
Bishop's Criminal Procedure, §§ 669, 673. United
§ 2524;
States Courts: United States v. Guiteau, 10 Fed. iRep. 161;
United States v. Ridgeway, 31 Fed. Rep. 144; United States
v. Faulkner,35 Fed. Rep. 730; United States v. le Clure, 7
Law Rep. (N. S.) 439; United States v. Lancaster,7 Bissell, 440.
Connecticut: State v. Johnson, 40 Conn. 136. Florida: H'odge
v. State, 26 Florida, 11. -Illinois: ifopps v. People, 31 Illinois,
385; Chase v. People, 40 Illinois, 352; Dunn v. People, 109
Illinois, 635; Langdon v. People, 133 Illinois, 382. Indiana:
Bradley v. State, 31 Indiana, 492; Guetig v. State, 66 Indiana,
94; Grubb v. State, 117 Indiana, 277; Plake v. State, 151 Indiana, 433. Iowa: State v. Jones,.64I.owa,349. Kansas: State
v. Crawford, 11 Kansas, 32; State v. -Mahn, 25 Kansas, 182;
State v. Niwon, 32 Kansas, 205. Kentucky: Smith v. Commonwealth, 1 Duval, 224. Michigan: People v. Garbutt, 17
Michigan, 9; Underwood v. People, 32 Michigan, 1. Mississippi: Cunningham v. State, 56 Mississippi, 269. Nebraska:
Wright v. People, 4 Nebraska, 407. New Hampshire: State
v. Bartlett, 43 N. H. 224; State v. Jones, 50 N. H. 369; State
v. Pike, 49 N. H. 399. New Mexico; Falkner v. Territory,
30 Pac. Rep. 905. New York: Brotherton v. People, 75 N. Y.
159; O'Connell v. People, 87 N. Y. 377; Walker v. People,
88 N. Y. 81. Tennessee: Dove v. State, 3 Heiskell, 348;
Zing v. State, 91 Tennessee, 617. Wisconsifi: 1?evoir v. State,
82 Wisconsin, 295; State v. Reidell, 14 Atl. IRep. 550.
Thus it appears that the preponderance of authority is
against the contention that it is only necessary to raise a
reasonable doubt.
It is urged by those authorities holding the contrary doctrine that every element necessary for conviction must be
established beyond a reasonable doubt; that while there is
a presumption of sanity, this only goes to the extent of reliev-

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

ing the State of the burden of proving sanity, and without any
proof on the subject the presumption is conclusive, but that
when proof is introduced, inasmuch as malice and will could
not exist in the mind of a person insane, evidence establishing
a reasonable doubt as to the sanity of the defendant in effect
establishes a reasonable doubt as to whether there were.
malice and the operation of the will.
Nowhere has this doctrine been stated with more force
than by Chief Justice iNicholson in Dove v. The State, 3
Heiskell, 366, 374.
The reasoning upon which the opposite conclusion is based
is that sanity is the normal condition and that there is a
presumption that every person is sane, and this presumption
stands until it is overthrown, and that evidence which merely
raises a reasonable doubt of sanity does not overthrow this
presumption.
There is a difference, -growing out of the well established
rules of law based on public policy, between the doubt of guilt
and the doubt of insanity. Malice is presumed from certain
facts and persons are held responsible for the consequences of
their acts upon the principle of presumption. These presumptions are fixed rules established by publib policy and not by
the reasoning upon each particular case. The rule, which has
been enforced, that drunkenness is not an eicuse for crime
grows out of public policy. Fixed rules of law, established
by public policy like this, are not to be subjected to the refinements of reasoning growing out of the fdcts of particular
cases.
It has been said that statistics show that a majority of the
persons acquitted on the ground- of insanity were not insane,
and this even in England, where the strongest rule against
the defendant prevails. The probability of a jury finding an
insane man guilty, under the rule that insanity must be established to theii reasonable satisfaction, is very slight as compared with the evil that results to society from the application
of the doctrine that a reasonable doubt as to whether the
defendant is sane or insane must be followed by acquittal.
It is urged, with great force of logic, which overlooks pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lic policy and applies to the question of insanity the same
reasoning which has been accepted in establishing the doctrine of reasonable doubt in respect of the affirmative facts
necessary to be proven by the State to establish crime, that
sanity when put in issue by any evidence must be establishedbeyond a reasonable doubt. It is submitted that a substantial ground for differentiation exists. This has been presented
by Attorney General Heiskell in the -Dove case, as follows:
"Doubt of insanity and doubt of guilt do not stand on the
same footing. Rules of law are not matters of simple logi-"
cal consistency. Policy influences them. Every man is presumed to know the law; to contemplate the consequences of
his acts; malice is presumed from the use of a deadly weapon
or from the fact of killing; not because courts suppose these
things that they are universally true in fact, but that policy
demands their adoption. Policy, not logic, is the foundation
of the rule as to drunkenness, that it shall not excuse crime.
The legal reason for it is, logically, nonsense; practically, wise.
The same policy demands that we shall adhere to the English
rule as to proof of insanity, not make a new one, as the courts
of other States have done.
"The defendant cannot be sent to an insane asylum on a
doubt as to his insanity. He must, therefore, in all doubtful
cases, be turned loose upon the country."
The question is one that has not been passed upon by this
court. The nisi prius Federal courts have held to the doctrine
of reasonable doubt.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Dennis Davis was indicted for the crime of having, on the
18th day of September, 1894, at the Creek Nation, in the
Indian Territory, within the Western District of Arkansas,
feloniously, wilfully, and of his malice aforethought, killed
and murdered one Sol Blackwell.
He was found guilty of the charge in the indictment. A
motion for a new trial having been overruled, and the court
having adjudged that the accused was guilty of the crime of

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

murder, as charged, he was sentenced to suffer the penalty of
death by hanging.
At the trial below the government introduced evidence
which, if alone considered, made it the duty of the jury to
return a verdict of guilty of the crime charged.
But there was evidence tending to show that at the time of
the killing the accused, by reason of unsoundness or weakness
of mind, was not criminally responsible for his acts. In addition to the evidence of a practising physician of many years
standing, and who, for the time, was physician at the jail in
which the accused was confined previous to his trial, "other
witnesses," the bill of exceptions states, "testified that they
had been intimately acquainted with the defendant for a number of years, lived near him, and had been frequently with
him, knew his-mental condition, and that he was weak-minded,
and regarded by his neighbors and people as being what they
called half crazy. Other witnesses who had known the. defendant for ten to twenty -years, witnesses who had worked
with him and had been thrown in constant contact with him;
said he had always been called half crazy, weak-minded; and
in the opinion of the witnesses defendant was not of sound
mind."
The issue, therefore, was as to the responsibility of the
accused for the killing alleged and clearly proved.
In its elaborate charge the court instructed the jury as to
the rules by which they were to be guided in determining
whether the accused took the life of the deceased feloniously,
wilfully, and with malice aforethought. "Where," the court
said, "a man has been shot to death, where the facts, as
claimed by the government hete, show a lying in wait, show
previous preparation, show the selection of a deadly weapon,
and show concealment to get an opportunity to do the act,
Nkhere that-state of case exists, if there is a mental condition
of the kind that Tenders a man accountable -why, there is
crime, and that crinie is murder."
Referring to' the evidence adduced to show that the accused
was incompetent in law.to commit crime, the court observed:
"Now when a man: premeditates a wicked design that pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

duces death, and executes that design, if he is a sane being, if
he is what the law calls a sane man, not that he may be partially insane, not that he may be eccentric, and not that he
may be unable to control his will power if he is in a passion
or rage because of some real or imaginary grievance he may
have received - I say, if you find him in that condition and
you find these other things attending the act, you would
necessarily find the existence of the attributes of the crime
of murder known as ' wilfulness' and malice aforethought."
But, the court said, the law "presumes every man is sane, and
the burden of showing it is not true is upon the party who
asserts it. The responsibility of overturning that presumption,
that the law recognizes as one that is universal, is with the
party who sets it up as a defence. The government is not
required to show it. The law presumes that we are all sane;
therefore the government does not have to furnish any evidence to show that this defendant is sane. It comes in here
with the fact established in legal contemplation until it is
overthrown. The government takes and keeps that attitude
until the evidence brought in the case overthrows this presumption of sanity. Now, let us see what the nature of this
defence is. The defendant interposes the plea of insanity, and
he says by this plea that he did the killing, but the act is not
one for which he can be- held responsible. In other words,
that the act was and is excusable in the law, because he was
insane at the time of its commission. Now, I say to you in
this connection, and it is a fact admitted in argument by the
counsel, that under the evidence there is nothing that justifies
the act of tho killing; nor was it such an act that the law
upholds it or mitigates it, or reduces it to a grade lower than
murder. If it was committed by the defendant while he was
actually insane it is excusable."
Again: "Now, I will undertake or endeavor to tell you, and
I bespeak your most earnest attention especially upon this
proposition of ' insanity.' The term ' insanity,' as used in this
defence, means such a perverted and deranged condition of
the mental and moral faculties as to render a person incapable
of distinguishing between right and wrong, or unconscious at

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

'the time of the nature of the act he is committing; or where,
though conscious of the nature of the act and able to distinguish between right and wrong, and know that the act is
wrong, yet his will by which I mean the governing power of
his mind, has been, otherwise than voluntarily, so completely
destroyed that his actions are not subject to it, but are beyond
his control. Such insanity, if proved to your reasonable satisfaction to have existed at the time of the commission of the
act -that is the test.-at the time of its commission, is in the
law an excuse for it, however brutal or atrocious'it may have
been. For a person to be excused from criminal responsibility
it is not necessary that he be a raving maniac, but ordinarily
it requires something more than mere. eccentricity of a natural
character. Such insanity does not excuse."
.Later in the charge the court recurred to the defence of insanity and said: "Now, as I have alrieady told you, the law presumes every person who has reached the years of discretion
to be of sane mind, and this presumption continues until the
contrary is shown. So that when, as in this case, insanity.is
interposed as a defence, the fact of the existence of , ich insanity at the time of the commission of the offence charged, must
be established by the evidence to the reasonable satisfaction
of a jury, and the burden of proof of the insanity rests with
the defendant. Although you may believe and find from the
evidence that the defendant did commit the act charged against
him, yet, if you further find that at the time he did so he was
insuch an insane condition of mind that he did not and could
not understand and comprehend the nature of the act; or that
thus knowing and understanding it, he was so far deprived of
his will, not by his own passion conceived for the purpose of
spurring him on to commit the violence, not by his own passion of mind engendered by some real or fancied grievance;
but.that he was so far deprived of his will by disease or other
cause over which h had no control, as to render him unable
to control his actions, then such killing was not a malicious
killing, and you will acquit him of th6 crime charged against
him."
In concluding its charge the court thus summarized the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

principles by which the jury were to be guided in their
deliberations:
"Now, gentlemen, the propositions are few in this case.
First, inquire whether there was a killing; then whether the
act of killing was done by the defendant, and what was his
condition of mind under the law at that time, as I have given
it to you. See what his mental condition was at that time
under the law as I have given it to you, and if he is to be
held responsible for his actions. If so, you are then to take a
step further and see whether these attributes of the crime of
murder existed as I have defined them to you; that is, that
the killing was done wilfully and with malice aforethought.
"Gentlemen, I have given you the law in the case, and you
are to take it as the law and by this -law and the testimony
you are to make up your verdict. You are to be satisfied
beyond a reasonable doubt of the guilt of this defendant
before you convict. When you start into a trial of a case, as
I have already told you, you start in with the presumption of
sanity. Then comes in the responsibility resting upon the
defendant to show his condition; to show his irresponsibility
under the law. He is required to show that -to your reasonable satisfaction, I say, to your reasonable satisfaction that it is a state of case where he is excusable for the act."
These extracts from the charge of the court present this
important qupstion: If it appears that the deceased was killed
by the accused under circumstances which - nothing else
appearing-made a case of murder, can the jury properly
return a veraict of guilty of the offence charged if upon the
Whole evidence from whatever side it comes they have a reasonable doubt whether at the time of killing the accused was
mentally competent to distinguish between right and wrong
or to understand the nature of the act he was committing?
If this question be answered in the negative the judgment
must be reversed; for the court below instructed the jury
that the defence of insanity could not avail the accused unless
it appeared affirmatively, to the .reasonable satisfaction of the
jury, that he was not criminally responsible for his acts. The
fact of killing being clearly proved, the legal presumption,

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

based upon the common experience of mankind, that every
man is sane, was sufficient, the court in effect said, to uthorize a verdict of guilty, although the jury might entertain a
reasonable doubt upon the evidence, whether the accused, by
reason of his mental condition, was" criminally responsible for
the killing in question. In other words, if the evidence was
in equilib'io as to the accused being sane, that is, capable of
comprehending the nature and effect of his acts, he was to be
treated just as he would-be if there were no defence of insanity or if there were an entire absence of -proof that he was
insane.
'This exposition of criminal law is not without support by

adjudications in England and- in this country. In Regi a v.
Stokes, 3 Car. & K. 185, 188, a case of murder, Baron Rolfe
said: "If the prisoner seeks to excuse himself upon the plea
of insanity, it is for him to make it clear that he was insane
at the time of committing the offence charged. The onus
rests on him; and the jury must be satisfied that,' he actually
was insane. If the matter is left in doubt, it will be their
duty to convict him; for every man must be presumed to be
responsible for-his acts until the contrary is clearly shown."
The same judge, in Regina v. Layton, 4 Cox 0. C. 149, 155,
which was also a case of murder. and the defence\ insanity,
after observing that in cases of that description it was a cardinal rule "that the burden of proving innocence rested on
the party accused," said that the question for the jury was
"not whether the person was of sound mind, but whether he
had made out to their satisfaction that he was not of sound
mind."
But the most deliberate and careful statement of the doctrine in the English courts is to be found in -MacYagAn's case,
10 01. & Fin. 200, 203, 210, decided in 1843. The accused
having been found not guilty, on the ground 'of insanity, his
trial became the subject of discussion in the House of Lords,
and much was said about insane delusions and partial insanity,
as giving or not giving immunity for acts which, .being committed by sane persons, were punishable criminally. The
judges'-were summoned to give their opinion on that question,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

although there was no case pending before the House.

Han.

sard's Parliamentary Debates, vol. 67, 3d series, 714 to 743.
Among the questions propounded to the judges were these:
"What are the proper questions to be submitted to the jury,
when a person alleged to be afflicted with insane delusions
respecting one or more particular subjects or persons is charged
with the commission of a crime (murder, for example), and
insanity is set up as a defence? In what terms ought the
question to be left to the jury, as to the person's state of mind
at the time when the act was committed?" Mr. Justice
Maule delivered a separate opinion, in which he expressed
great difficulty in answering the questions put to the judges,
because they did not appear to arise out of, and were not propounded with reference to, a particular case, or for a particular
purpose, which might explain or limit the generality of these
terms, and also, because he had heard no argument, at the bar
or elsewhere, on the subject referred to in the questions. He
expressed fear that any answers made would embarrass the
administration of justice in criminal cases. He, nevertheless,
said that "to render a person irresponsible for crime on account
of unsoundness of mind, the unsoundness should, according to
law as it has long been understood and held, be such as rendered him incapable of knowing right from wrong;" and that
the judge, in the particular case on trial, should employ such
terms in his instructions as, in his discretion, would be proper
to assist the jury in coming to a right conclusion as to the
guilt of the accused. Lord Chief Justice Tindal, speaking for
himself and the other judges, said, in response to the questions
propounded, that the jurors ought to be told in all cases where
insanity is set up as a defence that "every man is presumed
to be sane, and to possess a sufficient degree of reason to be
responsible for his crimes, until the contrary be proved to their
satisfaction; ani that to establish a defence on the ground of
insanity it must be clearly proved that, at the time of the
committing of the act, the party accused was laboring under
such a defect of reason, from disease of the mind, as not to
know the nature and quality of the, act he was doing; or, if
he did know it, that he did not know he was doing what was
wrong."

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In Commonwealth v. 1?ogers, 7 Met. (Mass.) 500, 504, 506,
(1844) it was said by Chief Justice Shaw, in his charge to the
jury, that "the ordinary presumption is, that a person is of
sound mind, until the contrary appears; and in order to shield
one from criminal responsibility, the presumption must be
rebutted by proof of the contrary, satisfactory to the jury.
Such proof may arise, either. out of the evidence offered by
the prosecutor to establish the case against the accused, or
from distinct evidence offered on his part; in either. case it
must be sufficient toestablish the fact of insanity; otherwise
the presumption will stand." The jury, after being in consultation for several hours, came into court and asked whether
they must be satisfied beyond a doubt of the insanity of the
prisoner to entitle him to an acquittal. The court responded
that if the preponderance of the evidence was in favor of the
insanity of the prisoner, the jury would be authorized to find
him insane. A verdict was returned of not guilty, by reason
of insanity. In Common~wealth v.York, 9 Met. (Mass.) (1845)
93, 116, the charge was murder, and the defence provocation
or mutual combat, making the offence, at -most, only manslaughter. The court held that the guilt of malicious homicide was established beyond reasonable doubt, by proof,
beyond reasonable doubt, of the fact of voluntary killing,
without excuse or justification apparent upon the evidence
introduced in behalf of the prosecution; that, in such case,
the proof must preponderate in favor of the fact of sudden
and mutual combat, in order to justify a finding in favor of
the prisoner in respect to the fact, it not being sufficient to
raise a doubt, even though it be a reasonable doubt, of the
fact of extenuation. In that case Mr. Justice Wilde dissented
in an able opinion, holding that "the burden of proof, in every
criminal case, is on the Commonwealth to prove all the material allegations in the indictment; and if, on the whole evidence, the jury have a reasonable doubt whether the defendant
is guilty of the crime charged, they are bound to acquit him."
p. 134. In Commonwealth v. Eddy, 7 Gray, (1856) 583, in
which the crime charged was murder and the defence insanity,
Mr. Justice Metcalf, speaking for himself and Justices Bigelow
VOL. CLX-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and Merrick, said: "The burden is on the Commonwealth to
prove all that is necessary to constitute the crime of murder.
And as that crime can be committed only by a reasonable
being -a person of sane mind -the burden is on the Commonwealth to prove that the defendant was of sane mind
when he committed the act of killing. But it is a presumption of law that all men are of sane mind; and that presumption of law sustains the burden of proof, unless it is rebutted
and overcome by satisfactory evidence to the contrary. In
order to overcome the presumption of law and shield the defendant from legal responsibility, the burden is on him to
prove, to the satisfaction of the-jury, by a preponderance of
the whole evidence in the case, that, at the' time of committing the homicide, he was not of sane mind."
It would seem that later cases in Massachusetts do not go
to the extent indicated by the above cases. In Comnmonwealth
v. HeatAh etc., 11 Gray, 303, which was tried before Justices
Dewey, Metcalf, and Thomas, the charge was murder, and
one question was whether the defendants were of sufficient
intelligence to be responsible for a homicide. Upon this
point, and as to the burden of proof, the court said: "The law
presumes men and women of the age of the prisoners to be
sane, to be responsible agents. Where therefore a homicide
is proved to have been committed in such way and under such
circumstances as, when done by a person of sane mind, would
constitute murder, the presumption of law, as of common sense
and general experience, supplies that link. It presumes men
to be sane till the contrary is shown. The presumption of
law stands until it is met and overcome by the evidence in the
case. This evidence may come, of course, as well from the
witnesses for the Government as the witnesses for the defence;
and when the evidence is all in, the jury must be satisfied, in
order to convict the prisoner, not only of the doing of the acts
which constitute murder, but that they proceeded from a responsible agent, one capable of committing the offence. This
is the rule to be applied to a case where the defence is idiocy,
an original defect and want of capacity. Whether the rule
is modified where the defence relied upon is insanity, disease

DAVIS v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mind or delusion, it is not necessary now to inquire."
In respect to that case we observe that, upon principle, the
rule as to the burden of proof in criminal cases cannot be materially different, where the defence is insanity, disease of the
mind or delusion, from the rule obtaining when the defence is
an original defect and want of capacity. In Commonwealth v.
Pomeroy, (reported in Wharton on Homicide, 2d ed. 753,
Appendix,) which was tried in 187-4 before Mr. Justice Gray
(then Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts) and Mr. Justice Morton, afterwards Chief Justice of
,the same court, it was contended by the prosecution that the
question of sanity, raised by the defendant, was to be determinedby the preponderance of proof ; that the Commonwealth
was not bound to prove the sanity of the accused beyond a
reasonable doubt. But thb court said: " The burden is upon
the government to prove everything essential beyond reasonable doubt;-and that burden, so far as the matter of sanity is
concerned, is ordinarily satisfactorily sustained by the presumption that every person of sufficient age is of sound mind
and understands the nature of his acts. But when the circumstances are all in, on the one side and on the other; on 'the
one side going to show a want of adequate capacity, on the
other side going to show usual intelligence; when the whole
is in, the burden rests where it was in the beginning - upon
the government to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt."
In State v. Spencer, 1 Zabriskie, 196, 202, 212 (1846), which
was a case of murder tried before Chief Justice Hornblower,
it was said that "when the evidence of -sanity on the one side,
and of insanity on the other, leaves.the scale in equal balance,
or so nearly poised that the jury have a rehsonable doubt, of
his sanity, then a man is to be considered sane and responsible
for what he does;" and that the "proof of insanity at the
time of committing the act, ought to be . as clear and satisfactory, in order to acquit him on the ground of insanity, as
the proof of committing the act ought to be, in order to find
a sane man guilty." Again, in the same case:- "If, in your
opinion, it is clearly proved that the prisoner at the bar, at the
time of the homicide, was unconscious that what he did was
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

wrong, and that he ought not to do it, you must acquit him on
the ground of insanity; but if in your opinion this is not
clearly established beyond a reasonable doubt, then you must
find him guilty of the act and proceed to investigate the
nature of the homicide." There are other cases to the same
general effect, some of them holding that the presumption of
sanity will prevail, and that the jury may properly convict,
unless the defence of insanity is established beyond a reasonable doubt; others, that it is the duty of the jury to convict
unless it appears by a preponderance of evidence that the
accused was insane when the killing occurred.
We are unable to assent to the doctrine that in a prosecution for murder, the defence being insanity, and the fact of
the killing with a deadly weapon being clearly established, it
is the duty of the jury to convict where the evidence is equally
balanced on the issue as to the sanity of the accused at the
time of the killing. On the contrary, he is entitled to an acquittal of the specific crime charged if upon all the evidence
there is reasonable doubt whether he was capable in law of
committing crimeNo one, we assume, would wish either the courts or juries
when trying a case of murder to disregard the humane principle, existing at common law and recognized in all the cases
tending to support the charge of the court below, that, "to
make a complete crime cognizable by himan laws, there must
be both a will and an act;" and "as a vicious will without
a vicious act is no civil crime, so, on the other hand, an unwarrantable act without a vicious will is no crime at all. So
that to constitute a crime against human laws, there must be,
first, a vicious will; and, secondly, an unlawful act consequent
upon such vicious will." 4 Bl. Com. 21. All this is implied
in the accepted definition of-murder; for it is of the very
essence of that heinous crime thatit be committed by a person
of "sound memory and discretion," and with "malice aforethought," either express or implied. 4 Bl. Com. 195; 3
Inst. 47; 2 Ohitty's Cr. Law, 476. Such was the view of the
court below which took care in its charge to say that the
crime of murder could only be committed by a sane being,

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

although it instructed the jury that a reasonable doubt as to
the sanity of the accused would not alone protect him against
a verdict of guilty.
One who takes human life cannot be said to be actuated by
malice aforethought, or to have deliberately intended to take
life, or to have "a wicked, depraved, and malignant heart," or
a heart." regardless of society duty and fatally bent on mischief," unless at the time he had sufficient mind to comprehend the criminality or the right and wrong of such an act.
Although the killing of one human being by another human
being with a deadly weapon is presumed to be malicious until
the contrary appears, yet, "in order to constitute a crime, a
person must have intelligence and capacity enough to have a
criminal intent and purpose; and if his reason and mental
powers are either so deficient that he has no will, no conscience,
o. controlling mental power, or if, through the overwhelming
violence of mental disease, his intellectual power is for the
time obliterated, he is not a responsible moral agent, and is
not punishable for criminal acts." Commonwealth v. Rogers,
7 Met. (Mass.) 500. Neither in the adjudged cases nor in the
elementary treatises upon criminal law is there to be found
any dissent from these general propositions. All admit that
the crime of murder necessarily involves the possession by the
accused of such mental capacity as will render him criminally
responsible for his acts.
Upon whom then must rest the burden of proving that the
accused, whose life it is sought to take under the forms of
law, belongs to a class capable of committing crime? . On
principle, it must rest upon those who affirm that he has committed the crime for which he is indicted. That burden is
not fully discharged, nor is there any legal right to take the
life of the accused, until guilt is made to appear from all the
evidence in the case. The plea of not guilty is unlike a special
plea in a civil action, which, admitting the case averred, seeks
to establish substantive ground of. defence by a preponderance
of evidence. It is not in confession and avoidance, for it is a
plea .hat controverts the existence of every fact essential to
constitute the crime charged. Upon that plea the accused

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

may stand, shielded by the presumption of his innocence, until
it appears that he is guilty; and his guilt cannot in the very
nature of things be regarded as proved, if the jury entertain
a reasonable doubt from all the evidence whether he was
legally capable of committing crime.
This view is not at all inconsistent with the presumption
which the law, justified by the general experience of mankind
as well as by considerations of public safety, indulges in favor
of sanity. If that presumption were not indulged the government would always be under the necessity of adducing affirmative evidence of the sanity of an accused. But a requirement
of that character would seriously delay and embarrass the en:
forcement of the laws against crime, and in most cases be
unnecessary. Consequently the law presumes that every one
charged with crime is sane, and thus supplies in the first
instance the required proof of capacity to commit crime. It
authorizes the jury to assume at the outset that the accused is
criminally responsible for his acts. But that is not a conclusive
presumption, which the law upon grounds of public policy
forbids to be overthrown or impaired by opposing proof. It
is a disputable or, as it is often designated, a rebuttable presumption resulting from the ccnnection ordinarily existing
between certain facts-such connection not being "so intimate, nor so nearly universal, as to render it expedient that
it .should be absolutely and imperatively presumed to exist in
every case, all evidence to the contrary being rejected; but
yet it is so general, and so nearly universal, that the law
itself, without the aid of a jury, infers the one fact from the
proved existence of the other, in the absence of all opposing
evidence." 1 Greenl. Ev.§ 38. It is therefore a presumption
that is liable to be overcome or to be so far impaired in a
particular case that it cannot be safely or properly made the
basis of action in that case, especially if the inquiry involves
human life. In a certain sense it'may be true that where the
defence is insanity, and where the case made by the prosecution
discloses nothing whatever in excuse or extenuation of the
crime charged, the accused is bound to produce some evidence
that will impair or weaken the force of the legal presumption

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in favor of sanity. But to hold that such presumption must
absolutely control the jury until it is overthrown or impaired
by evidence sufficient to establish the fact of insanity beyond
all reasonable doubt or to the reasonable satisfaction of the
jury, is in effect to require him to establish his innocence, by
proving that he is not guilty of the crime charged.
In considering the distinction between the presumption of
innocence and reasonable doubt, this court, in Coffin v. United
States, upon full consideration, said: "The presumption of
innocence is a conclusion drawn by the law in favor of the
citizen, by virtue whereof, when brought to trial upon a criminal charge, he must be acquitted, unless he is proven to be
guilty. In cither words, this presumption is an instrument of
proof created by the law in favor of one accused, whereby his
innocence is established until sufficient evidence is introduced
to overcome the proof which the law has created. This presumption on the one hand, supplemented by any other evidence he may adduce, and the evidence against him on the
other, constitute the elements from which the legal conclusion
of his guilt or innocence is to be drawn." Reasonable doubt
it was also said was "the result of the proof, not the proof
itself; whereas the presumption of innocence is one of the
instruments of proof, going to bring about the proof, from
which reasonable doubt arises; thus one is a cause, the other
an effect. To say that the one is the equivalent of the other
is; therefore, to say that legal evidence can be excluded from
the jury, and that such exclusion may be cured by instructing
them correctly in regard to the method by which they are
required. to reach their conclusion upon the proof actually
before them." Cofflin v. United States, 156 U. S. 482, 459,
460.
Strictly speaking, the burden of proof, as those words are
understood in criminal law, is never upon the accused to
establish his innocence or to disprove the facts necessary
to establish, the crime for which he is indicted. It is -on the
prosecution from the beginning to the end of the trial and
applies to every element necessary to constitute the crime.
Giving to the prosecution, where the defence is insanity, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

benefit in the way of proof of the presumption in favor of
sanity, the vital question from the time a plea of not guilty is
entered until the return of the verdict, is whether upon all the
evidence, by whatever side adduced, guilt is established beyond
reasonable doubt. If the whole evidence, including that supplied by the presumption of sanity, does not exclude beyond
reasonable doubt the hypothesis of insanity, of which some
proof is adduced, the accused is entitled to an acquittal of the
specific offence charged. His guilt cannot be said to have
been proved beyond a reasonable doubt - his will and his acts
cannot be held to .have joined in perpetrating the murder
charged - if the jury, upon all the evidence, have a reasonable
doubt whether he was legally capable of committing crime, or
(which is the same thing) whether he wilfully, deliberately,
unlawfully, and of malice aforethought took the life of the
deceased. As the crime of murder involves sufficient capacity
to distinguish between right and wrong, the legal interpretation of every verdict of guilty as charged is that the jury
believed from all the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that
the accused was guilty, and was therefore responsible, criminally, for his acts. How then upon principle or consistently
with humanity can a verdict of guilty be properly returned, if
the jury entertain a reasonable doubt as to the existence of a
fact which is essential to guilt, namely, the capacity in law of
the accused to commit that crime?
The views we have expressed are supported by many adjudications that are entitled to high respect. If such were
not the fact, we might have felt obliged to accept the general
doctrine announced in some of the above cases; for it is desirable that there be uniformity of rule in the administration of
the criminal law in governments whose constitutions equally
recognize the fundamental principles that are deemed essential
for the protection of life and liberty.
In People v. X5Cann, 16 N. Y. 58, a case of murder, the
jury were instructed that if any reasonable doubt existed as
to the proof of the deed itself the prisoner should be acquitted ;
"but as sanity is the natural state, there is no presumption of
insanity, and the defence must be proved beyond a reasonable

DAVIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

doubt."

This instruction was held to be erroneous by tf.

unanimous judgment of the Court of Appeals of New York,
of which, at the time, Judges Denio, Johnson, Comstock, and
Selden were members. The judges who delivered opinions
concurred in the view that, while there was no presumption of
insanity, and while the law presumes a sufficient understanding and will to do the act, the fact of the killing by the
accused being established by proof, the burden was upon the
prosecution to show from all the evidence the existence of
the requisites or elements constituting the crime, one of which
was the sanity of the prisoner. In that case Mr. Justice
Brown said: "If there be a doubt about the act of killing, all
will concede that the prisoner is entitled to the benefit of it;
and if there be any doubt about the will, the faculty of the
prisoner to discern between right and wrong, why should he
be deprived of 6he benefit of it, when both the act and the
will are necessary to make out the crime?" And, "If he is
entitled to the benefit of the doubt in regard to the malicious
intent, shall he not be entitled to the same benefit upon the
question of his sanity, his understanding? For, if he was
without reason and understanding at the time, the act was not
his, and he is nb more responsible for it than he would be for
the act of another man." pp. 67; 68. So in Brotherton v.
Peoy7,e, 75 N. Y. 159, 162, Chief Justice Church, speaking for
the court, after observing that crimes can only be committed
by human beings in a condition to be responsible for their
acts, and that the burden of overthrowing the presumption of
sanity and of showing insanity- is upon the person who alleges
it, says: "If evidence is given tending to establish insanity,
then the general question is presented to the court and jury
whether the crime, if committed, was committed by a person
responsible for his acts, and upon this question the presumption of sanity, and the evidence, are all to be considered, and
the prosecutor holds the affirmative, and if a reasonable doubt
exists as to whether the prisoner is sane, or not, he is entitled
to the benefit of the doubt, and to an acquittal." To the
same effect are O' Connell v. People, 87 N. Y. 377, 380.and
Walker v. People, 88 N. Y. 81, 88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In Chase v. People, 40 Illinois, 352, 358, reaffirming the rule
announced in the case of Hopys v. People, 31 Illinois, 385, 392,
the court, speaking by Chief Justice Breese, said: "Sanity
is an ingredient in crime as essential as the overt act, and
if sanity is wanting there can be no crime, and if the jury
entertain a reasonable doubt on the question of insanity, the
prisoner is entitled to the benefit of the doubt. We wish to
be understood as saying, as in that case, that the burden of
proof is on the prosecution to prove guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt, whatever the defence may be. If insanity is relied on
and evidence given tending to establish that unfortunate condition of mind, and a reasonable well-founded doubt is thereby
raised of the sanity of the accused, every principle of justice
and humanity demands that the accused shall have the benefit
of the doubt."
The same principle is recognized in New Hampshire. Bellows, J., speaking for the court, after observing that a plea of
not guilty, in a criminal cause, puts in issue all the allegations
of the indictment, said: "A system of rules, therefore, by
whi~h the burthen is shifted upon the accused of showing that
any of the substantial allegations are untrue, or, in other words,
to prove a negative is purely artificial and formal, and utterly
at war with the humane principle which, in favoremr vita,
requires the guilt of the prisoner to be established beyond
reasonable doubt."
Again, in the same case, after saying
that to justify a conviction, all the elements of the crime
charged must be shown to exist, and' to a moral certainty,
including the facts of a sound memory, an unlawful killing
and malice, he proceeded: "As to the first, the natural presumption of sanity is primafacie proof of a sound memory,
and. that must stand unless there is other evidence tending to
prove the contrary; and then whether it come from the one
side or the other in weighing it, the defendant is entitled to
the benefit of all reasonable doubt, just the same as upon the
point of an unlawful killing or malice. Indeed, the want of
sound memory repels -the proof of malice in the same way as
proof that the killing was accidental, in self-defence, or in heat
of blood; and there can be no solid distinction founded upon the

DAVIS v. -NITE)

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

fact that the law presumes the existence of a sound memory.
So the law infers malice from the killing when that is shown,
and nothing else; but in both cases the inference is one of fact,
atid it is for the jury to say whether, on all the evidence before
them, the malice or the sanity is proved or not. Indeed, we
regard these. inferences of fact as not designed to. interfere in
any way with the obligation of the prosecutor to remove all rear
sonable doubt of guilt; but they are applied as the suggestions
of experience, and with a view to the convenience and expedition of trials, leaving the evidence, when adduced, to be weighed
without regard to the fact whether it comes from the one side or
the other." "The criminal intent must be proved as much as
the overt act, and without a sound mind such intent could not
exist; and the barthen of proof must always remain with the
prosecutor to prove both the act and criminal intent." State
v. Bartlett, 43 N. H. 224, 231.
So in People v. Garbutt, 17 Michigan,. 9, 22, the court,
speaking by Chief Justice Cooley, after observing that the
prosecution may rest upon the presumption of sanity until
that presumption is overthrown by the defendant's evidence,
said: "Nevertheless, it is a part of the 'case for the government; the fact which it supports must necessarily be estab:
lished before any conviction can be had; and when the jury
come to consider the whole case upon the evidence delivered
to them, they must do so upon thebasis that on each and
every portion of it they are to be reasonably satisfied before
they are at liberty to find the defendant guilty."
In Cunningham v. State, 56 Mississippi, 269, the question was
carefully examined and the rule was stated by Chalmers, J.,
to be, that whenever the condition of the prisoner's mind
is put in issue by such facts proved on either side as create a
reasonable doubt of his sanity, it devolves upon the State to
remove it and to establish the sanity of the prisoner -to the
satisfaction of the jury beyond all reasonable doubt- arising
out of all the evidence in the case.
In Dove v. State, 3 Heiskell, 348, 371, Chief Justice Nicholson, delivering the unanimous opinion of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, thus stated its view of the question: "When the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

proof of insanity makes an equipoise, the presumption of
sanity is neutralized-it is overturned, it ceases to weigh,
and the jury are in reasonable doubt. How, then, can a presumption, which has been neutralized by countervailing proof,
be resorted to to turn the scale? The absurdity to which this
doctrine leads will be more obvious by supposing that the
jury should return a special verdict. It would be as follows:
'We find the defendant guilty of the killing charged, but the
proof leaves our minds in doubt whether he was of such soundness of memory and discretion as to have done the killing wilfully, deliberately, maliciously, and premeditatedly.' Upon
such a verdict no judge could pronounce the judgment of
death upon the defendant." So, in Plake v. State, 121 Indiana, 433, 435, Judge Elliott, speaking for the Supreme Court
of Indiana, said: "If the evidence is of such a character as to
create a reasonable doubt whether the accused was of unsound
mind at the time the crime was committed, he is entitled to
a verdibt of acquittal. Polk v. State, 19 Indiana, 170; Bradley
v. State, 31 Indiana, 492; XoDougal v. State, 88 Indiana, 24."
To the same effect are many other American cases cited in
argument. The principle is accurately stated by Mr. Justice
Cox- of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia as
follows: "The crime, then, involves three elements, viz., the
killing, malice, and a responsible mind in the murderer. But
after all the, evidence is in, if the jury, while bearing in mind
both these presumptions that I have mentioned - i.e. that
the defendant is innocent until he is proved guilty, and that
he is and was sane, unless evidence to the contrary appearsand considering the whole evidence in the case, still entertain
what is called a reasonable doubt, on any ground, (either as
to the killing or the responsible condition of mind,) whether
he is guilty' of the crime of murder, as it has been explained
and defined, then the rule is that the defendant is entitled to
tht benefit of that doubt and to an acquittal." Guiteai's
case, 10 Fed. Rep. 161, 163.
It seems to us that undue stress is placed in some of the
cases upon the fact that, in prosecutions for murder the defence
of insanity is frequently resorted to and is sustained by the

