WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. CCEUR D' ALENE R'Y. 101
Counsel for Parties.

depot of the defendant, the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, upon the ground in controversy, neither the
plaintiff, nor any person for it, ever made any other survey,
or did any other act upon the premises, or took any possession
thereof."
While it may be that such a finding, standing alone, would
not make out a case of estoppel, of which the defendant could
a.vail itself in an action of law, it is entitled to consideration
when we are asked to adopt a construction of the act of Congress which would enable the plaintiff company to take and
enjoy the right of way enhanced in value by the improvements put thereon by the defendant. When a court of law
is construing an instrument, whether a public law or a private
contract, it is legitimate, if two constructions are fairly possible, to adopt that one which equity would favor.
The decree of the court below is

Affi'med.

WASHINGTON AND IDAHO RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CCEUR D'ALENE RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION

COMPAN~Y.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREM COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
No. 4. Argued November 13, 14,1895. -Decided

December 2,1895.

Affirmed upon the authority of Washington & Idaho Railroad Company v.
Cmur d'Alene Bailway & Navigation Company, ante, 77.

THIs case was argued with the preceding case.
are-stated in the opinion.

The facts

-mr.A. A. Roehling, Jr., and -Mr. Samuel Shellabarger for
appellant.
Hr. J. .F.-Dillon, X1r. W. W. Cotton, and .M.
J.-M. Wilson were on their brief.
Mr. A. B. Browne for appellee.
a brief for same.

Xr. A. H. Garlandfiledi

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JUSTICE

SHAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought by the Washington and
Idaho Railroad Company, a corporation of the Territory of
Washington, in the District Court of the First Judicial District of the Territory of Idaho, against the Cceur d'Alene
Railway and Navigation Company, a corporation of the Territory of Montana, and George P. Jones. An inspection of
the record discloses that the matter in dispute was a right of
way two hundred feet in width and about a mile in length,
situated in Shoshone County in the Territory of Idaho, and
which was claimed by both railroad companies. By a bill in
equity the plaintiff company sought to have its title to said
strip declared paramount, and to restrain the defendant company from trespassing upon the same, and from interfering
with the plaintiff's peaceful possession. The result of the
suit, in the District Court of the Territory of Idaho, was a
final decree adjudging that the Cceur d'Alene Railway and
Navigation Company was the owner and entitled to the possession of the land in question. From this decree an appeal
was taken by the plaintiff company to the Supreme court of
the Territory of Idaho. That court was of opinion that, as it
appeared by the findings of fact in the District Court, at the
time of the trial, the defendant had completed its line of road
over the disputed ground and was in the actual use and occupation thereof, the plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law,
and that the District Court, while justified in refusing the
injunction prayed for, should have dismissed the bill and left
the plaintiff to its action at law, and, as thus modified, the
judgment of the District Court was affirmed.
From this judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
an appeal was taken to this court.
We do not find it necessary to enter into a discussion of the
merits of the case, nor to decide whether a court of equity
could take jurisdiction of such a controversy, because we learn,
from our own records, that the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company, without awaiting the result of the present
appeal, but acting upon the view of the Supreme Court of the

