UNITED STATES v. ONE DISTILLERY et al.

149

Opinion of the Court.

judgment for the residue only." Gould's Arkansas Digest of
Statutes, c. 159, ยง 5, p. 1020. The law was complied with.
It follows that the Circuit Court did not err in instructing
the jury to find for the plaintiff (defendant in error), and
judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ONE DISTILLERY et aZ.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 190. Argued April 6,1899.-Decided April 24, 199.

There was no pro.of in this case to overcome the denials in the original answer, and to show that the property seized by the Collector of Internal
Revenue had been forfeited to the United States.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. A88istant Attorney General Boyd for plaintiffs in
error.
-Mr. Samuel G. Hilborn for defendants in error. -. r.
Frederic I. Hall filed a brief for same.

M _. JusTIcE HTAiRT

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an information filed November 13, 1888, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of California to obtain a decree declaring that certain real arid
personal property which had been seized by a Collector ofInternal Revenue was forfeited to the United States.
The information was based upon sections 3257, 3281, 3305,
3453 and 3456 of the Revised Statutes.
The property in question once belonged to the Fruitvale
Wine and Fruit Compahy, a corporation of California. The
acts that were set forth as constituting the grounds of forfeit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ure were committed, if at all, while that corporation owned
the property. Subsequently, June 9., 1888, the property was
purchased by Wolters, Helm, Austin and Coffman at a public
sale thereof by the assignee of the company - the consideration, $7700, being paid in cash to the assignee. They appeared
and filed a demurrer to the original information. The demurrer was confessed, and an amended information was filed January 11, 1889.
Wolters, Helri, Austin and Coffman on the 19th day of
April, 1889, filed an answer to the amended information, controverting its material allegations. The answer contained
these among other averments: "That they [the claimants]
have not sufficient information in regard to the several wrongful acts alleged to have been perpetrated by said corporation
on which to found a belief; they therefore, on behalf of
saidacorporation, deny all and singular the.alleged fraudulent
acts charged in said information as having been done and
performed by said corporation."
On the 21st day of August, 1890, the claimants filed an
amendment of their original answer, in which they averred
that in December, 1888, W. Moore Young, who was secretary
of the Fruitvale Wine and Fruit Company, and one of the
owners of the property in question when the acts complained
of in the original and amended information were committed,
was indicted in the same court, and was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for one year in the county jail. The
claimants further averred that the acts complained of in this
case were the same as those relied on by the Government in
its prosecution against Young, and that because of the proceedings and judgment against Young the United States ought not
to maintain its .present action. The amended answer concluded: "These claimants aver the foregoing fn addition to
their answer already on file herein, and expressly rely not only
upon this, but upon all of the allegations and denials contained
in said original answer. And having fully answered, they
.pray as they have heretofore prayed in said original answer."
The demurrer to the amended answer was overruled by an
order entered Octol~er 20, 1890, and an exception was taken

UNITED STATES v. ONE DISTILLERY et at.

1"i

Opinion of the Court.

by the United States to the action of the court. 43 Fed. Rep.
846. On the next day the following decree was enAtered:
"This cause came on regularly for trial before the court, sitting without a jury, a jury trial having been expressly waived
in writing, the United States being represented by Willoughby
Cole, Esq., United States attorney, and the claimants by Messrs.
Brousseau and Hatch, and HIeury C. McPike, Esq. Whereupon the United States attorney announced to the court that
the facts set forth in the amended and supplemental answer
heretofore filed by the claimants in this action, and to which
a demurrer had been interposed by the United States and
overruled by the court, might be considered by the court and
taken as true for the purposes of this trial, as if the said facts
had been proved by competent witnesses, but that they were
insufficient in law to constitute a defence to this action.
Thereupon-the United States, by their said attorney, and the
claimants by their attorneys aforesaid, submitted the cause
to the court for its decision upon the pleadings in said cause
and the said amended and supplemental answer, the facts as
to the matter, as already stated, being taken as true, the court,
after considering the same, orders and decrees that the libel
herein be, and the same is hereby, dismissed."
The case was carried to the Circuit Court, and was pending
there at its January term, 1891. On the 23d day of February,
1897, the judgment of the District Court was affirmed.
It is contended on behalf of the Government that the
amended and supplemental answer did not present a valid
defence, and therefore that the Circuit Court erred in affirming the judgment of the District Court. But if, independently
of the particular question raised by the amended and supplemental answer, the judgment of the District Court dismissing
the information was right upon any ground disclosed upon
the record, the judgment of the Circuit Court affirming the
judgment of the District Court should not be held to have
been erroneous.
It cannot be doubted that by the information and the original answer the distinct issue was presented, whether the prop-

OOTOBER TERM, 1898.
. Opinion of the Court.

erty in question was forfeited to the United States by reason of
the wrongful and fraudulent acts specified in the information.
The answer put the Government upon proof of those acts.
No proof was however made by the Government to establish
the alleged grounds of forfeiture. Nevertheless, the cause was
submitted for decision not only upon the facts set forth in the
amended and supplemental answer, taking them to be true,
but upon the pleadings. So that even if the District Court
had been of opinion that the amended and supplemental
answers were insufficient in law, it still remained for it to
determine the rights of the parties upon the information and
the original answer. As the original answer controverted the
material allegations of the information, and as the cause was
submitted for decision upon the pleadings, without any proof
to sustain the allegations of fraudulent acts forfeiting the
property, the final order dismissing the information was
proper. If the claimants had withdrawn their denials of such
allegations of the information as set forth the grounds upon
which the Government asserted the forfeiture of the property
in question, it would then be necessary to consider whether
the conviction of Young precluded the United States from
proceeding by information against the property. But the
claimants did not take that course. They were careful ih the
amended and supplemental answer to say not only that
the facts therein alleged were in addition to those set forth in
their original answer, but that they relied upon the denials
contained in the original answer.
Without considering the merits of the question raised by
the amendment of the answer, we affirm the judgment of the
Circuit Court upon the ground that there was no proof in the
case to overcome the denials in the original answer of the averments of the infoimation, and to show, as against the claimants, that the property had been forfeited.
.A firmed.

