CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF CO-

No. 108. Argued January 5, 6,1899. -Decided

April 11, 1899.

This court has jurisdiction to review by writ of error, under the act of
February 9, 1893, c. 74, § 8, a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, maintaining the validity of proceedings for a trial
by a jury before a justice of peace, which were sought to be set aside
on the ground that the act of Congress authorizing such a trial was unconstitutional.
The provisions of the Constitution of the United States securing the right
of trial by jury, whether in civil or in criminal cases, are applicable to
the District of Columbia.
By the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, either party to an action
at law (as distinguished from suits in equit; and in admiralty) in a
court of the United States, where the value in controversy exceeds
twenty dollars, has the right to a trial by jury.
By the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, when a trial by jury has
been had in an action at law, in a court either of the United States or of
a State, the facts there tried and decided cannot be regxamined in any
court of the United States otherwise than according to the rules of the
common law of England, that is to say, upon a new trial, either granted
by the court in which the first trial was had or to which the record was
returnable, or ordered by an appellate court for error in law.
VOL. CLXXIV-1
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
"Trial by jury," in the primary and usual sense of the term at the common law and in the American constitutions, is a trial by a jury of twelve
men, in the presence and under the superintendence of a judge empowered to instruct them upoh the law'and to advise them upon the
facts, and (except upon acquittal of a criminal charge) to set aside their
verdict if in his opinion it is against the law or the evidence.
A trial of a civil action,'before a justice of the peace of the District of
Columbia, by a jury of twelve men, as permitted by the acts of Congress, without requiring him to superintend the course of the trial or
to instruct the jury in matter of law, or authorizing him to arrest judgment upon their verdict, or to set it aside for any cause whatever, is not
a trial by jury, in the sense of the common law and of the Constitution,
and does not prevent facts so tried from being tried anew by a common
law jury in an aipellate court.
Congress, in the exercise of its general and exclusive power of legislation
over the District of Columbia, may provide for the trial of civil causes
of moderate amount before a justice of the peace, or, in his presence,
by a jury of twelve, or of any less number, allowing to either party,
where the value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, the right to
appeal from the judgment of the justice of the peace to a court of
record, and to have a trial by jury in that court.
The appeal authorized by Congress from judgments of a justice of the
peace in the District of Columbia to a court of record, "in all cases
where the debt or damage doth exceed the sum of five dollars," includes
cases of judgments entered upon the verdict of a jury.
The right of trial by jury, secured by the Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution, is not infringed by the act of Congress of February 19, 1895,
c. 100, enlarging the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace in the District
of Columbia to three hundred dollars, and requiring every appellant from
his judgment to enter into an undertaking, with surety, to pay and satisfy
the final judgment of the appellate court.

TnE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
MR.
A.

Ros Per'y for plaintiff in error.

.Mr.Alexander Wolf for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
On September 8, 1896, the Capital Traction Company, a
street railway corporation in the District of Columbia, presented to the Supreme Court of the District a petition for a
writ of certiorari to a justice of the peace to preve:nt a oivi4

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

action to recover damages in the sum of $300 from being tried
by a jury before him.
The petition for a writ of certiorari alleged that Charles
Hlof, on August 11, 1896, caused a summons to be issued by
Lewis I.O'Neal, Esquire, one of the justices of the peace in
and for the District of Columbia, summoning the Capital
Traction Company to appear before him on August 20, 1896,
"to answer unto the complaint of Charles Hof in a plea of
damage of $300," and the matter was postponed until September 8, on which day, after the company had put in its plea,
and issue had been joined thereon, the attorney for Hof demanded of the justice of the peace that the action should be
tried by a jury, and thereupon the justice of the peace issued
a venire to a constable, commanding him to summon twelve
jurors to appear before said justice on September 10; that the
petitioner was advised that such a demand for the so-called
jury was founded upon sections 1009-1016 of the Revised
Statutes of the District of Columbia, and was intended to
subject the petitioner, without appeal, to a form of trial before a justice of the peace, unknown to the common law, and,
as the petitioner was advised, illegal and unconstitutional;
that the petitioner was informed and believed that Hof's
claim was for damages sustained by him through its negligence, while he was a passenger on one of its cars; and that
it had a good defence on the merits to his claim, and sought
a fair opportunity to make such defence, before an impartial
tribunal, and was ready and willing to give any security that
might be required for the prompt payment of any final judgment which might be pronounced against it in due course of
law.
The petition further averred that the only method in which
Hof's claim against the petitioner could be tried by- a jury
according to the common law and the Constitution was by
removing his suit from the justice of the peace into the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; that if this was not
done, the petitioner would be deprived of its constitutional
right to a trial by jury, and would be in danger of being de,
prived of its property without due process of law, and would

OCTOBER TERMS, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

be denied the equal protection of the laws; and that the
amount claimed by Hof was within the jurisdiction of that
court.
Wherefore the petitioner prayed that a writ of certiorari
might be issued to the justice of the peace to remove Hof's
claim into that court for trial according to the course of the
common law, upon such terms as to security for costs and
damages as the court might think proper; and for such other
and further relief as the petitioner might be entitled to.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia granted a
'writ of certiorari to the justice of the peace, as prayed for;
and the justice of the peace, in his return thereto, set forth
the proceedings before him in the action of Hof against the
Capital Traction Company, showing the issue and return of
the summons to the defendant, its oral plea of not guilty, the
plaintiff's joinder of issue and demand of a jury, and the
stay of further proceedings by the writ of certiorari.
On October 6, 1896, the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia overruled a motion of Hof to quash the writ of certiorari; and entered an order quashing all proceedings before
the justice of the peace after issue joined. 24 Wash. Law :Rep.
646. IHof appealed to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, which on February 17, 1897, reversed that order,
and remanded the case with directions to quash the writ of
certiorari. 10 App. D. C. 205. The Capital Traction Company thereupon sued out a writ of error from this court, under
the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, § 8. 27 Stat. 436.
The petition for a writ of certiorari presents for determination a serious and important question of the validity, as well
as the interpretation and effect, of the legislation of Congress
conferring upon justices of the peace in the District of
Columbia jurisdiction in civil actions in which the matter in
dispute exceeds twenty dollars in value, and providing for a
trial by a jury before the justice of the peace, an appeal from
his judgment to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and a trial by jury, at the request of either party, in the
appellato court. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction of the
writ -of error. Baltimore & Potomao Railroadv. loHpin8,

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPA1NY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

130 U. S. 210, 224; Parsonsv. Districtof Columbia, 170 U. S.
45.
The Court of Appeals was unanimous in maintaining the
validity of the proceedings looking to a trial by a jury before
the justice of the peace. But there was a difference of opinion
between the two associate justices aid the chief justice upon
the question whether such a trial before the justice of the
peace would be a trial by jury, according to the common law
and the Constitution; as well as upon the question whether
the trial by jury, allowed by Congress in the Supreme Court
of the District, upon appeal from the judgment of the justice
of the peace, and upon the condition of giving bond to pay
the final judgment of the appellate court, satisfied the requirements of the Constitution.
I. The Congress of the United States, being empowered
by the Constitution "to exercise exclusive legislation in all
cases whatsoever" over the seat of the iNational Government,
has the entire control over the District of Columbia for every
purpose of government, national or local. It may exercise
within the District all legislative powers that the legislature
of a State might exercise within the State; and may vest and
-distribute the judicial authority in and among courts and magistrates, and regulate judicial proceedings before them, as it
may think fit, so long as it does not contravene any provision
of the Constitution of the United States. Kendall v. United
States, (1838) 12 Pet. 524, 619; -Mattinglyv. Districtof Columbia, (1878) 97 U. S. 687, 690; Gibbons v. .Districtof Columbia,
(1886) 116 U. S. 404, 407.
It is beyond doubt, at the pre~ent day, that the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States securing the right of
trial by jury, whether in civil or in criminal cases, are applicable
to the District of Columbia. Mebster v. Reid, (1850) 11 How.
437, 460; Callan v. Wilson, (1888) 127 U. S. 540, 550; Thompsom v. U ah, (1898) 170 U. S. 343.
The decision of this case mainly turns upon the scope and
effect of the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. It may therefore be convenient, before par-

ticularly examining the. acts of Congress now -in question, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

refer to the circumstances preceding and attending the adoption of this Amendment, to the contemporaneous understanding
of its terms, and to the subsequent judicial interpretation
thereof, as aids in ascertaining its true meaning, and its -pplication to the case at bar.
II.The first Continental Congress, in the Declaration of
Rights adopted October 14, 1774,unanimously resolved that
"the respective Colonies are entitled to the common law of
England, and more especially to the great and inestimable
privilege of being tried by their peers of the vicinage, according to the course of that law." 1 Journals of Congress, 28.
The Ordinance of 1787 declared that the inhabitants of the
Northwest Territory should "always be entitled to the benefits
of the writ of habeas corpus, and of the trial by jury," "and of
judicial proceedings according to the course of the common
law." 1 Charters and Constitutions, 431.
The Constitution of the United States, as originally adopted,
merely provided in article 3, section 3, that "the trial of all
crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury."
In the Convention which framed the Constitution, a motion
to add this clause, "and T trial by jury shall be preserved as
usual in civil cases," was opposed by Mr. Gorham of Massachusetts, on the ground that "the constitution of juries is
different in different States, and the trial itself is usual in different cases, in different States;" and was unanimously rejected. 5 Elliott's Debates, 550.
Mr. Hamiltonj in number 81 of the Federalist, when discussing the clause of the Constitution which confers upon this
court "appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with
such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress
shall make," and again, in more detail, in number 83, when
answering the objection to the want of any provision securing
trial by jury in civil actions, stated the diversity then existing
in the laws of the different States regarding appeals and jury
trials; and especially pointed out that in the New England
States, and in those alone, appeals were allowed, as of course,
from one jury to another until there had been two verdicts
on one side, and in no other State but Georgia was there any

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal 'from one to another jury. The diversity in the laws
of the several States, he insisted, "shows the impropriety of
a technical definition derived from the jurisprlidence of, any
particular State," and "that no general rule could have bpen
fixed upon by the Convention which would have" corresponded
with the circumstances of all the States." And he suggested
that "the legislature of the United States would certainly
have full power to provide that in appeals to the Supreme
Court there should be no reexamination of facts where they
had been tried in the original causes by juries;" but if this
"should be thought too extensive, it might be qualified with a
limitation to such causes only as are determinable at common
law in that mode of trial." 2 Federalist, (ed. 1788) pp. 319321, 335, 336.
At the first session of the first Congress under the Constitution, Mr. Madison, in the House of Representatives, on June
8, 1789, submitted propositions to amend the Constitution by
adding, to the clause concerning the appellate jurisdiction of
this court, the words, "nor shall any fact, triable by a jury,
according to the course of the common law, be otherwise reexaminable than according to the principles of the common
law;" and, to the clause concerning trial by jury, these
words: "In suits at common law, between man and man, the
trial by jury, as one of the best securities to the rights of the
people, ought to remain inviolate." 1 Annals of Congress,
424, 435. And those propositions, somewhat altered in form,
were embodied in a single article, which was proposed by.
Congress on September 25, 1789, to the legislatures of the
several States, and upon being duly ratified by them, became
the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, iiA these words:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined, in any court of the United States, than according
to the rules of the common law."
A comparison of the language of the Seventh Amendment,
as finally made part of the Constitution of the United States,
with the Declaration of Rights of 1774, with the Ordinance

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1787, with the essays of Mr. Hamilton in 1788, and with
the amendments introduced by Mr. Madison in Congress in
1789, strongly tends to the conclusion that the Seventh Amendment, in declaring that "no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined, in any court of the United States, than
according to the rules of the common law," had in view the
rules of the common law of England, and not the rules of that
law as modified by local statute or usage in any of the States.
This conclusion has been e~tablished, and "the rules of the
common law" in this -respect clearly stated and defined, by
judicial decisions.
In United States v. TFonson, (1812) 1 Gallison, 5, a verdict
and judgment for the defendant having been rendered in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts in an action of debt for a penalty, the United States
appealed to the Circuit Court, and were held not to be entitled
to try by a new jury in that court facts which had been tried
and determined by the jury in the court below. "We should
search in vain," said Mr. Justice Story, "in the common law,
for an instance of an appellate court retrying the cause by a
jury, while the former verdict and judgment remained in full
force. The practice ifideed seems to be a peculiarity of New
England, and, if I am not misinformed, does not exist in more
than one (if any) other State in the Union." And, after quoting the words of the Seventh Amendment, he observed: "Beyond all question, the common law here alluded to is not the
common law of any individual State, (for it probably differs in
all,) but it is the common law of England, the grand reservoir
of all our jurisprudence." "Now, according to the rules of the
common law, the facts once tried by a jury are never reexamined, unless a new trial is granted'in the discretion of the
court before which the suit is depending, for good cause
shown; or unless the judgment of such court is reversed by a
superior tribunal, on a writ of error, and a venire facias de
novo is awarded. This is the invariable usage, settled by the
decisions of ages." 1 Gallison, 14, 20.
In Parsons v. Bedford, (1830) 3 Pet. 433, this court, on
writ of error to a lower court of the United States, held that

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

it had no power to refxamine facts tried by a jury in the
court below, although that court was held in Louisiana, where
Congress had enacted that the mode of proceeding should
conform to the laws directing the mode of practice in the district courts of the State, and a statute of the State authorized
its supreme court t6 try anew on appeal facts tried by a jury
in a district court. Mr. Justice Story, in delivering the judgment of this court, expounding the Seventh Amendment to
the Constitution, after showing that, in the first clause, the
words "suits at common law" were used in contradistinction
to suits in equity and in admiralty, and included "not merely
suits which the common law reaognized among its old and settled proceedings," but all suits in which legal, rights, and not
equitable rights, were ascertained and determined, proceeded
as follows: "But the other clause of the Amendment is still
more important; and we read it as a substantial and independent clause. 'No fact tried by .a jury shall be otherwise
reexamined, in any court of the United States, than according
to the rules of the common law.' This is a prohibition to the
courts of the United States to reexamine any facts, tried by a
jury, in any other manner. The only modes known to 'the
common law to reexamine such facts are the granting of a
new tril by the court where the issue was tried, or to which
the record was properly returnable; or the award of a venire
facia8 de novo, by an appellate court, for some error of law
which intervened'in the proceedings." 3 Pet. 446-448.
-This last statement has. been often reaffirmed by this court.
Barreda v. Silsbee, (1858) 21 How. 146, 166; Justices v.
Murray, (1869) 9 Wall. 274, 277; Miller v. Life Insurance Co.,
(1870) 12 Wall. 285, 300; Insurance Co. v. Corn.tock, (1872)
16 Wall. 258, 269; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, (1873) 18 Wall.
237, 249; Railroad Co. v. .'aloft, (1879) 100 U. S.24, 31;
.Lincolnv. Power, (1894) 151 U. S.436, 438 ;. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Chicago, (1897) 166 U. S.226, 246.
The Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, drawn by
Senator (afterwards Chief Justice) Ellsworth, and passedwithin six months after the organizatidn of the Government
under the Constitution, and on the day before the first ten

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Amendments were proposed to the legislatures of the States by the First Congress, in which were many eminent men who
had been members of the Convention which formed the Constitution, has always been considered as a contemporaneous
exposition of the highest authority. Cohens v. Firgihia,(1821)
6 Wheat. 264, 420; Parsonsv. Bedford, above cited; Bdrs v.
Preston,(1884) 111 U. S. 252, 256; Ames v. .Kansas, (1884) 111
U. S. 449, 463, 464; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., (1888) 127
U. S. 265, 297. That act provided, in §§ 9 and 12, that the
trial of issues of fact, in a District or Circuit Court, in all
suits, except those of equity or adnairalty jurisdiction, 'should
be by jury; in § 13, that the trial of issues of fact in this court,
in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, in all actions at law
against citizens of the United States, should be by jury ; in § 17,
that "all the said courts of the United States" should "have
power to grant new trials, in cases where there has been a
trial by jury, for reasons for which new trials have usually
been granted in the courts of law;" and in §§ 22 and 24,
that final judgments of the District Court might be reviewed
by the Circuit Court, and final judgments of the Circuit Court
be reviewed by this court, upon writ of error, for errors in
law, but not for any drror in fact. I Stat. 77, 80, 81, 83, 84.
Those provisions, so far as regards actions at law, have since
remained in force, almost uinterruptedly; and they have been
reenacted in the Revised Statutes, allowing the parties, however, to waive a jury and have their case tried by the court.
Rev. Stat. §§ 566, 633, 648, 689, 691,-726, 1011.
The only instances that have come to our notice, in which
Congress has undertaken to authorize a second trial by jury to
be had in a court of the United States, while the verdict of a
jury upon a former trial in a court of record has not been set
aside, are to be found in two temporary acts passed during
the last war with Great Britain, and in an act passed during
the war of the rebellion and continued in force for a short
time afterwards, each of which provided that certain actions
brought in a state court against officers or persons acting
under the authority of the United States might, after final
judgment, be removed by appeal or writ of error to the

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States, and that court should
"thereupon proceed to try and determine the facts and the
law in such action in the same manner as if the same had been
there originally commenced, the judgment in such case notwithstanding."
Acts of February 4, 1815, c. 31, %§ 8, 13,
and March 3, 1815, c. 94, §§ 6, 8; 3 Stat. 199, 200, 234, 235;
Act of March 3, 1863, c. 81, § 5; 12 Stat. 757 ; Act of May
11, 1866, c. 80, § 3; 14 Stat. 46. But such a provision,
so far as it authorized the facts to be tried and determined
in the Circuit Court of the United States in a case in which
a verdict had been returned in the state court, was held to
be inconsistent with the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United- States by the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, in a case arising under the acts of 1815 ; and
by the Supreme Court of New York and by this court, in
cases arising under the acts of 1863 and 1866. TWetherlee
v. Johnson, (1817) 14 Mass. 412; Patriev. 3furray, (1864) 43
Barb. 323; S. C. nom. Justices v. .Xurray, (1869) 9 Wall.
274; .VfKee v. Rain8, (1869) 10 Wall. 22.
In Justices V. Zfurray, .an action was brought by Patrie
against Murray, a United States marshal, and his deputy, in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and a verdict
and judgment for the plaintiff were rendered in that court.
The defendant sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States, under the act of Congress of March 3,
1863, c. 81, § 5; and moved the state court to stay proceedings. The state court denied the motion, and refused to make
a return to the writ of error, upon the ground that the act of
Congress, so far as it provided that a case, after verdict and
judgment in a state court, might be removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for trial and determination upon
both the facts and the law, in the same manner as if the case
had been originally commenced in that court, was in violation
of the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, and for that reason null and void. Patriev.._Yurray,
43 Barb. 323. Thereupon the Circuit Court of the United
States, without expressing any opinion upon this point,
granted a writ of mandamus to the clerk of the state court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

-Hurray v. Patrie, 1 Blatchf6rd, 343; 9 Wall. 216, note.
The judgment of the *CircuitCourt ordering a mandamus was
then brought to this court by writ of error, and reversed.
Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering judgment, after remarking
that the case (which had been twice argued by very able
counsel) had received the most deliberate consideration of the
-court, quoting the statements of Mr. Justice Story in Parson8
v. Bedford, above cited, and recognizing that the second
clause of the Seventh Amendment could not be invoked in a
state court to prohibit it from regxamining, on a writ of
error, facts that had been tried by a jury in a lower court,
went on to say: "It is admitted that the clause applies, to the
appellate powers of the Supreme Court of the United States
in all common law cases coming up from an inferior Federal
court, and also to the Circuit Court, in like cases, in the
exercise of its appellate powers. And why not, as it respects
the exercise of these powers, in cases of Federal cognizance
coming up from a state court? The terms of the Amendifent are general, and contain no qualification in respect to
the restriction upon the appellate jurisdiction of the courts,
except as to the class of cases, namely, suits at common law,
where the trial .hasbeen by jury. The natural inference is
that no other was intended. Its language, upon any reasonable, if not necessary, interpretation, we think, applies to this
entire class, no matter from what court the case comes, of
which cognizance can be taken by the appellate court." The
-ratio decidendi, the-line of thought pervading and controlling
the whole opinion, was that the Seventh Amendment undoubtedly prohibited any court of the United States. from
reexamining facts once tried by a jury in a lower court of
the United States, and that there 'was no reason why the
prohibition should not equally apply to a case brought into a
court of the United States from a state court. "In both
instances," it was said, "the cases are to be disposed of by
the same system of laws, and by the same judicial tribunal."
9 Wall. 277-279.
In 'Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Chicago,
166 U. S.226, 242-244, the same course of reasoning was fol-

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

lowed, and wap applied to- a case brought by writ of error
from the highest court of a State to this court.
It must therefore be taken as established, by virtue of the
Seventh Amendment of the OonstitutiQn, that either party to
an action at law (as distinguished from suits in equity or in
admiralty) in a court of the United States, where .the value
in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, has the right to a trial
by jury; that, when a trial by jury has been had in an action
at law, in ,a court either of the United States or of a State, the
facts there tried and decided cannot be reexamined in any
court of the United States, otherwise than according -to the
rules .of the common law of England; that by the rules of
that law, no other mode of reexamination is allowed than
upon a new trial, either granted by the court in which the
first trial was had or to which the record was returnable, or
ordered by an appellate court for error in law; and therefore
that, unless a new trial has been granted in one of those two
'ways, facts Qnce tried by .a jury cannot be tried anew, by a
jury or otherwise, in any court of the United States.
The case of enforcing, in a court of the United States,- a
statute of a State giving one new trial, as of right, in an action
of ejectment, is quite exceptional; and such a statute does
not enlarge, but restricts, the rules of the common law as to
reexamining facts once tried by a jury, for by the common
law a party was not concluded by a single verdict and judgment in ejectment, but might bring as many successive ejectments as he pleased, unless restrained by a court of equity
after repeated verdicts against him. Bac. Ab. Ejectment, I;
.Equator Co. v. Hall, (1882) 106 U. S. 86; SmaZe v. -Mitohell,
(1892) 143 U. S. 99.
III. "Trial by jury," in the primary and usual sense of the
term at the common law tind in the American constitutions,
is not merely a trial by a jury of twelve men before an officer
vested with authority to cause them to be summoned and
empanelled, to administer oaths to them and to the constable
in charge, and to enter judgment and issue "execution on their
verdict; but it is a trial by a jury of.twelve men, in the presence and under the superintendence of a judge empowered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

instruct them on the law and to advise them on the facts, and
(except on acquittal of a criminal charge) to set aside their
verdict if in his opinion it is against the law or the evidence.
This proposition has been so generally admitted, and so seldom contested, that there has been little occasion for its distinct assertion. Yet there are unequivocal statements of it to
ber found in the books.
Lord Hale, in his History of the Common Law, c. 12,
"touching trial by jury," says. "Another excellency of this
trial is this, that the judge is always present at the time of
the evidence given in it. Herein he is able in matters of law,
emerging upon the evidence, to direct them; and also, in
matters of fact, to give them great light and assistance, by his
weighing the evidence before them, and observing where the
question and knot of the business lies; and by showing them
his opinion even in matter of fact, which is a great advantage and light to laymen. And thus, as the jury assists the
judge in determining the matter of fact, so the judge assists
the jury in determining points of law, and also very much in
investigating and enlightening the matter of fact, whereof the
jury are the judges." And again, in summing up the advantages of tiial by jury, he says: "It has the advantage of the
judge's observation, attention and assistance, iii point of law
by way of decision, and in point of fact by way of direction
to the jury." 2 Hale Hist. Com. Law, (5th ed.) 14'7, 156.
See also 1 Hale P. C. 33.
The Supreme Court of Ohio held that the provision of article 1, section 19, of the constitution of that State, requiring
compensation for private property taken for the public use to
"be assessed by a jury," was not satisfied without an assessment by a jury of twelve men under the supervision of a court;
and, speaking by Chief Justice Thurman, said: "That the term
'jury,' without addition or prefix, imports a body of twelve
men in a court of justice, is as well settled as any legal proposition can be." "We agree with Grimke, J., in Tillyard v.
Hamilton, 7 Ohio, pt. 2, Ili, 118, that a jury, properly speaking, is an appendage of a court, a tribunal auxiliary to the administration of justice in a court, that a presiding law tribunal

CAPITAL TRACTION CO TANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

is implied, and that the conjunction of the two is the peculiar
and valuable feature of the jury trial; and, as a necessary inference, that a mere commission, though composed of twelve
men, can never be properly regarded as a jury. Upon the
whole, after a careful examination of the subject, we are
clearly of the opinion that the word 'jury,' in section 19 of
article 1, as well as in other places in the constitution where
it occurs, means a tribunal of twelve men, presided over by a
court, and hearing the allegations, evidence and arguments of
the parties."

Lamb v. Lane, (1854) 4 Ohio St. 167, 177,'179.

The Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court of New Hampshire, in an opinion given to the House of Representatives of
the State, said: "The terms ' jury,' and ' trial by jury,' are, and
for ages have been, well known in the language of the law.
They were used at the adoption of the constitution, and always,
it is believed, before that time, and almost always since, in a
single sense. A jury for the trial of a cause was a body of
-twelve men, described as upright, well qualified and lawful
men, disinterested and impartial, not of kin nor personal dependents of either of the parties, having their homes within the
jurisdictional limits of the court, drawn and selected by officers free from all bias in favor or against either, party, duly
empanelled under the direction of a competent court, sworn to
render a true verdict according to the law and the evidence
given them; who, after hearing the parties and their evidence,
and receiving the instructions of the court relative to the law
involved in the trial, and deliberating, when necessary, apart
from all extraneous influences, must return their unanimous
verdict upon the issue submitted to them." Qjinion of J 2 tie8, (1860) 41 N., H. 550, 551.
Judge Sprague, in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts, said: "The Constitution
secures a trial by jury, without defining'what that trial is.
We are left to the common law, to learn what it is that is
secured. Now the trial by jury was, when the Constitution
was adopted, and for generations before that time had been,
here and in England, a trial of an issue of fact by twelve men,
under the direction and superintendence of the court. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

direction and superintendence was an essential part of the
trial." "At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, it
was a jart of the system of trial by jury in civil cases that the
court might, in its discretion, set aside a verdict." "Each
party, the losing as well as the winning, has a right to the
legitimate trial by jury, with all its safeguards, as understood
when the Constitution was adopted." United States v. Bags of
.Aerchandise, (1863) 2 Sprague, 85-88.
This court has expressed the same idea, saying: "In the
courts of the United states, as in: those of England, from
which our practice wa derived, the judge, in submitting a
case to the jury, may, at his liscretion, whenever he thinks
it necessary to assist them in arriving at a just conclusion,
comment upon the evidence, call their -attention to parts of
it which he thinks important, and express his opinion upon
the facts." Tickeburg &c. Railroad v. Putnam, (1886) 118
U. S. 545, 553. And again: "Trial by jury in the courts of
the United States is a trial presided over by a judge, with
authority, not only to rule upon objections to evidence and
to instruct the jury upon the law, but also, when in his judgment the due administration of justice requires it, to aid
the jury by explaining and commenting upon the testimony,
and even -giving them his opinion on questions of fact, provided only he submits those questions to their determination."
United States v. Pilade~phia & Reading Railroad, (1887
123 U. S. 113, 114. And see Sparf v. United States, (1895)
156 U. S. 51, 102, 106; Thompson v. Utah, (1898) 170 U. S.
343, 360; Miller on the Constitution, 511; Cooley's Principles
of Constitutional Law, 239.
IV. By the common law, justices of the peace had some
criminal jurisdiction, but no jurisdiction whatever of suits
between man and man. There were in England, however,
courts baron, county courts, courts of conscience and other
petty courts, which were not courts of record, and whose
proceedings varied in many respects from the course of the
common law, but which were empowered to hear and determine, in a summary way, without a jury, personal actions in
which th6 debt or damages demanded did not exceed forty

CAPITAL TRACTION COMNTA3NY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court

shillings. 3 Bi. Com. 33, 35, 81. The twelve freeholders
summoned to the county court of Middlesex, and authorized,
when there assembled together with the county clerk, and
without any judge- being present, to decide by a majority,
and in a summary way, causes not exceeding forty shillings,
under the statute of 23 -Geo. II, c. 33, (1750) commended by
Blackstone, were clearly not a common law jury. 3 BL Com.
83, and Coleridge's note.
In this country, before the Declaration of Independence,
the jurisdiction over small debts, which county courts and
similar courts had in England, was generally vested in single
justices of the peace. Whenever a trial by jury of any kind
was allowed at any stage of an action begun before a justice
of the peace, it was done in one of two ways; either by pro.viding for an appeal from the judgment of the justice of the
peace to a court of record, upon giving bond, with surety, "to
prosecute the said appeal there with effect, and to abide the
order of said court," and for a trial in that court by a common jury, as in Massachusetts; 6 Dane Ab. 405, 442; Mass.
Prov. Stats. 1697, c. 8,1§ 1, and 1699, c. 2, § 3, (1 Prov. Laws,
State ed. pp. 283, 370,) and Stat. 1783, c. 42; or by providing
for a trial by a jury of six before the justice of the peace, as
in New York and in New Jersey; 6 Dane Ab. 417; N. Y.
Stats. of December 16, 1737, 1 Smith & Livingston's Laws,
p. 238, § 4, and of December 24, 1759, 2 Ib. p. 170, § 4; N. J.Stat. February 11, 1775, Allinson's Laws, p. 468; Wanser v.
Atkin 8on, (1881) 14,Vroom, (43 N. J. Law,) 571, 572.
Justices of the peace in the District of Columbia, in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred upon them by Congress to
try and determine cases, criminal or civil, are doubtless, in
some sense, judicial officers. Wie v. Wither, 3 Cranch, 330,
336. But they are not inferior courts of the United States,
for the Constitution requires judges of all such courts to be
appointed during good behavior. Nor are they, in any sdnse,
courts of record. They were never considered in Maryland
as "courts of law."
Weikel v. Cate, (1882) 58 Maryland, 105,
110. The statutes of Maryland of 1715, c. 12, and of 1763,
c. 21, (in Bacon's Laws of Maryland,) and of 1791, c. 68, (in
. voL. cLxx v-2

OCTOBER TERM. 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Kilty's Laws,) defining the civil jurisdiction of justices of
the peace, were entitled acts "for the speedy recovery of small
debts out of court." And Congress has vested in them, "as
individual magistrates," the powers and duties which justices
of the peace previously had under the laws in force in the
District of Columbia. Act of February 27, 1801, e.-15, § 11;
2 Stat. 107; Rev. Stat. D. C. § 995.
A trial by a jury of twelve men before a justice of the
peace, having been unknown in England or America before
the Declaration of Independence, can hardly have been within
the contemplation of Congress in proposing, or of the people
in ratifying, the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States.
V. Another question having an important bearing on the
validity and the interpretation of the successive acts of Congress, concerning trial by jury in civil actions begun before
justices of the peace in the District of Columbia, is whether
the right of trial by jury, secured .by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, is preserved by allowing a common
law trial by jury in a court of record, upon appeal from a
judgment of a justice of the peace, and upon giving bond with
surety to prosecute the appeal and to abide the judgment of
the appellate court.
The question considered and decided by this court in Callan
v. Wilson., (1888) 127 U. S. 540, though somewhat analogous,
was essentially a different one. That case was a criminal
case, not affected by the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution, but depending upon the effect of those other provisions
of the original Constitution and of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, which declare that "the trial of all causes, except in
cases of impeachment, shall be by jury," that "no person
shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due
process of law," and that "in all criminal prosecutions the
accused shall enjoy the rigbt to a speedy and public trial by
an impartial jury." The point there decided was that a
person acbused of a conspiracy to prevent another person from
pursuing his lawful calling, and by intimidations and molestations to reduce him to beggary, had the right to a trial by

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPAIY v. HOP.
Opinion of the Court.

jury in the first instance, and that it was not enough to allow
him a trial by jury after having been convicted by a justice
of the peace without a jury. The decision proceeded upon
the ground that such a conspiracy was an offence of a grave
character, affecting the public at large, as well as one the
punishment of which might involve the liberty of the citizen ;
it was conceded that there was a class of minor offences to
which the same rule could not apply; and the question of
applying a like rule to civil cases did not arise in the case, and
was not touched by the court.
All the other cases cited at the bar, in which the constitutional right of trial by jury was held not to be secured by
allowing such a trial on appeal from a justice of the peace, or
from an inferior court, were criminal cases. Greene v. Briggs,
(1852) 1 Curtis, 311, 325; Saco v. Wentworth, (1853) 37
Dana, (1872) 7 Benedict, 1.
Maine, 165; 1n reT
On the other hand, the authority of the legislature, consistently with constitutional provisions securing the right of
trial by jury, to provide, in civil proceedihgs for the recovery
of money, that the trial by jury should not be had in the
tribunal of first instance, but in an appellate court only, is
supported by unanimous judgments of this court in two
earlier cases, the one arising in the District of Columbia, and
the other in the State of Pennsylvania.
The declaration of rights, prefixed to the constitution of
Maryland of 1776, declared, in article 3, that "the inhabitants
of Maryland are entitled to the common law of England, and
the trial by jury according to the course of that law;" and,
in article 21, repeated the words of Magna Charta, "No
person ought to be taken or imprisoned," &c., "or deprived
of his life, liberty or property, but by the judgment of his
peers or the law of the land." 1 Charters and Constitutions,
817, 818. The statute of the State of Maryland of 1793, c. 30,.
incorporating a bank in the District of Columbia, provided
that on any bill or note made or indorsed to the bank, and
expressly made negotiable at the bank, and not paid when
due, or within ten days after demand, the bank, upon filing
an affidavit of its president to the sum due, might obtain

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

from the clerk of a court an execution against the prbperty
of the debtor; "and if the defendant shall dispute the whole
or any part of the said debt, on the return of the execution,
the court before whom it is returned shall and may order an
issue to be joined, and trial to be had in the same court at
which the return is made, and shall make such other proceedings that justice may be done in the speediest manner." 2
Kilty's Laws., The general court of Maryland, in 1799, held
that this statute did not infringe the constitutional right of trial
by jury- Bank of Columbia v. Ross, 4 Har. & DkcH. 456,
464, 465. The statute was continued in force in tile District
of Columbia by the acts of Congress of February 27, 1801, c.
15, § 5, and March 3, 1801, c. 24, § 5. 2 Stat. 106, 115; Bank
of Columbia v. Okely, (1819) 4 Wheat. 235, 2416.
In Bank of Columbia v. Okely, an execution-so issued was
sought to be quashed upon the ground that the statute of
Maryland violated the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, as well as the constitution of the
State of Maryland. But this court held the statute to be
consistent with both constitutions, and, speaking by Mr. Justice Johnson, said: "This court would ponder long before
it would sustain this action, if we could be persuaded that
the act in question produced a total prostration. of the trial
by jury, or even involved the defendant in circumstances
which rendered that right unavailing for his protection. But.
a power is reserved to the judge, to make such rules and
orders 'as that justice may be done;' and as the possession
of judicial power imposes an obligation to exercise it, we
'flatter ourselves that, in practice, the evils so eloquently
dilated on by the counsel do not exist. And if the defendant does not avail himself of the right given him, of having
an issue made up, and the trial-by jury, which is tendered
"to him by the act, it is presumable that he cannot dispute the
justice of .the claim. That this view of the subject is giving
full effect to the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution is
not only deducible from the general intent, but from the
express wording of the Article referred to. Had the terms
been that 'the trial by jury shall be preserved,' it might

CAPITAL TRAOTION COMP'ANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

have been contended that they were imperative, and could
not be dispensed with. But the words are, that the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved, which places it on the foot
of a lex:pro se introducta, and the benefit of it may therefore
be relinquished. As to the words of Magna Charta, incorporated into the constitution of Maryland, after volpmes
spoken and written with a view to their exposition, the7 good
sense of mankind has at length settled down to this: that
they were intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the powers of government, unrestrained by
the established principles of private rights and distributive
justice. With this explanation, there is n6thing left to this
individual to complain of. Wh5.t he has lost, he has voluntarily relinquished; and the trial by jury is open to him,
either to arrest the progress of the law in the first instance,
or to obtain redress for oppression, if the power of the bank
has been abused. The same answer is equally applicable
to the argument founded on the third article of the Maryland
constitution." 4 Wheat. 243, 244.
The constitution of- Pennsylvania of 1776 provided, in
article 11 of the declaration of rights, that "in controversies respecting property, and in suits between man and man,
the parties have a right to trial by jury, which ought to be
held sacred," and, in section 25 of the frame of government,
that "trials shall be by jury as heretofore;" and the constitution of 1790, in section 6 of the bill of rights, declared that
"trial by jury shall be as heretofore, and the right thereof remain inviolate." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1542, 1546,
1554. The statutes of Pennsylvania, from 1782, required all
accounts between the State and its officers to be settled by
the comptroller general, and approved by the executive council; and, if a balance was found due to the State, authorized the
comptroller general to direct the clerk of the county where
the officer resided to issue summary process to collect the
amount due. And a statute of February 18, 1785, after reciting "whereas it will be agreeable to the constitution of this
State, which has declared that ' trial by jury shall be as heretofore,' that persons conceiving themselves aggrieved by the

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings of the said comptroller general should be allowed
to have trial of the facts by a jury, and questions of law arising thereupon determined in a court of record," enacted that
any such person might appeal from the settlement or award
of the comptroller general to the Supreme Court of the State,
"provided the -said party enter sufficient security" before a
judge "to prosecute such appeal with effect, and to pay all
costs and charges which the Supreme Court shall award, and
also pay any sum of money which shall appear by the judgment of the said court to be due from him " to the State; and
might have the whole matter tried by a jury upon the appeal.
This statute also provided that the settlement of any account
by the comptroller general, and confirmation thereof .bythe
executive council, whereby any sum of money should be found
due from any person -to the State, should be a lien on all his
real estate throughout the State. 2 Dall. Laws Penn. 44, 247,
248, 251.
In L-L/vngton, v. Moore, (1833) '7.Pet. 469, which came to
this court from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the validity of a lien so
acquired by the State was attacked on the ground, among
others, that the statutes creating it were contrary to section 6
of the Pennsylvania bill of rights of 1790. But this court
upheld the validity of the lien, and in an opinion delivered by
Mr. Justice Johnson, after elaborately discussing the other
questions in the case, briefly disposed of this one as follows:
"As to the sixth section of the Pennsylvania bill of rights, we
can see nothing in these laws on which to fasten the imputation of a violation of the right of trial by jury; since, in
creating the lien attached to the settled accounts, the. right
of an appeal to a jury is secured to the debtor." 7 Pet. 552.
While, as has been seen, the Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States requires that "the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved" in the courts of the United
States in every action at law in which the value in controversy
exceeds twenty dollars, and forbids any fact'once tried by a
jury to "be otherwise reexamined, in any court of the United
States, than according to the rules of the common law," mean-

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. IAOF.
Opinion of th& Court.

ing thereby the common law of England, and not the law of
any one or more of the States of the Union, yet it is to be
remembered that, as observed by Justice Johnson, speaking
for this court, in Bank of Columbia v. Okely, above cited, it
is not "trial by jury," but "the right of trial by jury," which
the Amendment declares "shall be preserved." It does not
prescribe at what stage of an action a trial by jury must, if demanded, be had; or what conditions.may be imposed upon
the demand of such a trial, consistently with preserving the
right to it. In passing upon these questions, the judicial decisions and the settled practice in the several States are entitled to great weight, inasmuch as the constitutions of all of
them had secured the right of trial by jury in civil actions, by
the words " shall be preserved," or "shall be as heretofore,"
or "shall remain inviolate," or "shall be held sacred," or by
some 'equivalent expression.
A long line of judicial decisions in the several States, beginning early in this century, maintains the position that the constitutional right of trial by jury in civil actions is not infringed
by a statute which sets the pecuniary limit of the jurisdiction
of justices of the peace in actions at law higher than it was
when the particular constitution was adopted, allows a trial
by jury for the first time upon appeal from the judgment of
the justice of the peace, and requires of the appellant a
bond with surety to prosecute the appeal and to pay the judgment of the appellate court. The full extent and weight of
those precedents cannot be justly appreciated without referring to the texts of the statutes which they upheld, and which
have not always been fully set forth in the reports.
The leading case is Encrick v. Harris,(1808) 1 Binney, 416,
which arose under the statutes of Pennsylvania. - The provisions of the constitution of the State are quoted above. The
provincial statute of March 1, 1745, gave a justice of the
peace jurisdiction of actions to recover the sum of forty shillings and upwards.and not exceeding five pounds; and authorized any person aggrieved by his judgment to appeal to the
court of common pleas, "first entering into recognizance,
with at least one sufficient security, at least in double value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the debt or damages sued for, and sufficient to answer all costs,
to prosecute the said appeal with effect, and to abide the order
of the said court, or in default thereof to be sent by. mittimus
to the sheriff of the county, by him to be kept until he shall
give such security, or be otherwise legally discharged." 1
Dall. Laws Penn. 304, 307. The statute of April 5, 1785, enlarged the summary jurisdiction of a justice of the peace to
sums not exceeding ten pounds; and, for the avowed purpose of
conforming to the constitution of the State, gave an appeal to
the court of common pleas, upon the like terms as by the statute of 1145. And the statute of March 11, 1789, conferred
upon the aldermen of the city of Philadelphia the jurisdiction
of justices of the peace. 2 Dall. Laws Penn. 304, 305, 660.
The statute of April 19, 1794, extended the jurisdiction of
justices of the peace, as well as of the aldermen of Philadelphia, to demands not exceeding twenty pounds, with a right
of appeal, after judgment, if the amount exceeded five pounds,
to the court of common pleas, "in the same manner, and subject to all other restrictions and provisions," as in the statute
of 1745. 3 Dall. Laws Penn. 536-538. In support of a writ
of certiorari to quash a*.judgment for eleven pounds and six
shillings, rendered in the alderman's court of Philadelphia
upon default of the defendant, it was argued "that the constitution, by directing that trial, by jury should be as heretofore,
and the right thereof remain inviolate, had interdicted the
legislature from abolishing or abridging this right in any case
in whiQh-it had existed before the constitution; that a prohibition to do this directly was a prohibition to do it indirectly,
either by deferring the decision of a jury until one, two or
more previous stages of the cause had been passed, or by
clogging the resort to that tribunal by penalties of any kind,
either forfeiture of costs, security upon appeal, or delay; that
the power to obstruct at all implied the power to increase, the
obstructions until the object became unattainable; and that
the instant the enjoyment of the right. was to be purchased by
sacrifices unknown before the constitution, the right was violated, and ceased to exist as before." But the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania held that the statute of 1794 was a constitu-

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.

25

Opinion of the ,Court

tional regulation of judicial proceedings by legislative authority. 1 Binney, 424,428. See also McDonald v. Schell, (1820) 6
S. & R. 240; Biddle v. Commonwealth, (1825) 13 S. & R. 405,
410; Haines v. Levin, (1866) 51 Penn. St. 412.
Soon after the decision in Emerick v. Harris, a similar
decision was made by the Supreme Court of North Carolina.
In the constitution of that State of 1776, it was declared that
"in all controversies at law, respecting property, the ancient
mode of trial by jury is one of the best securities of the
rights of the people, and ought to remain sacred and inviolable." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1410. When that constitution was formed, justices of the peace had jurisdiction
over sums of twenty shillings and under. In 1803, the legislature extended their jurisdiction to thirty pounds, "subject
nevertheless to the right of appeal, as in similar cases'-a
statute of 1794: having provided that, in all cases .of appeals
from the judgment of a justice, the appellant's subscription
and acknowledgment of the security, attested by the justice,
"shall be sufficient to bind the security to abide by and perform the judgment of the court; and where judgment shall
be against the appellant, the same shall be entered on motion
against the security, and execution shall issue against the principal, or against both principal and security, at the option of
the plaintiff." 2 Martin's Laws of North Carolina, pp. 60,
207. "The legislature has," said the court, "given to either
party the right of appealing to a court, where he will have the
benefit of a trial by jury. It cannot, therefore, be said that
the right of such trial is taken away. So long as the trial by
jury is preserved through an appeal, the preliminary mode of
obtaining it may be varied at the will and pleasure of the
legislature. The party wishing to appeal may be subjected to
some inconvenience in getting security, but this inconvenience
does not in this, nor in any other case where security is required, amount to a denial of right." Keddie v..oore, (1811)
2 Murphy, 41, 45; followed in Wilson v. Simonton, (1821)
1 Hawks, 482.
The constitution of Tennessee of 1796 declared that "the
right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate." 2 Charters and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Constitutions, 1674. At the time of the adoption of that constitution, as appears by the territorial statute of 1794, c. 1,
§ 52, 54, justices of the peace had jurisdiction only of actions
for twenty dollars and under; and either party might appeal
to the county court, "first giving security for prosecuting such
appeal with effect, which said appeal shall be tried and determined at the first court, by a jury of good and lawful men,
and determination thereon shall be final." The jurisdiction
of a justice of the peace was extended by the statute of 1801,
c. 7, to fifty dollars, "subject; nevertheless, to appeal by either
party, to be tried in the county court by a jury, as in other
cases." And the statute of 1809, c. 63, provided that an appeal
from the judgment of a justice of the peace should not be
granted, unless the appellant "enter into bond with good and
sufficient security, with a condition to prosecute said appeal;"
and that, if the papers should not be returned to the clerk of
the county court at the return term, it should "be lawful for
the appellee, on the production of the papers in the cause, to
move for judgment against the appellant and his securities,
for the amount of the debt and costs, if he should have been
the original defendant; if not, for the amount of costs."
1 Scott's Laws of Tennessee, pp. 476, 695, 1166. The statute
of 1831, c. 59, further extended the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace to one hundred dollars. Public Acts of Tennessee
of 1831, p. 83. In a case arising under the last statute, the
Supreme Court of Tennessee, while Chief Justice Catron
(afterwards a justice of this court) was a member thereof,
declared it to have been settled by a long series of its decisions, beginning under the statute of 1801, that such a statute was constitutional, upon the ground that "inasmuch as the
party was in all cases allowed his appeal, when he could have
a trial by jury, the right of trial by jury was not taken
away; so that the terms of requiring bail or security for the
money belonged to the legislature to provide, and though the
security required in the cases of appeal differed from those
cases where the party was brought into court by original writ,
still, as it did not take away the right of trial by jury, the
act was not unconstitutional." .Morford v. Banes, (1835)

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

8 Yerger, 444, 446; followed in .P'yor v. fays, (1836) 9
Yerger, 416.
The constitution of Connecticut of 1818, aTticle'l, section
21, likewise declared that "the right of trial by jury shall
remain inviolate." 1 Charters and Constitutions, 259. At
the time of its adoption, the jurisdiction of justices of the
peace, in actions of trespass, was limited to fifteen dollars.
In the Revised Laws of 1821, tit. 2, § 23, their jurisdiction
was extended to thirty-five dollars; but in demands for m6re
than seven dollars an appeal was allowed to the county court,
the appellant to "give sufficient bond, with surety, to the
adverse party, to prosecute such appeal to effect, and to
answer all damages in case he make not his plea good."
The Supreme Court of donnecticut held the statute constitutional; and Chief Justice Hosmer, in delivering judgment,
said: "I admit that the trial by jury must continue unimpaired; and shall not now dispute that there can be no enlargement of a justice's jurisdiction, which shall take from
any one the legal power of having his cause heard by a jury,
precisely as it might have been before the constitution was
adopted. It is indisputable that a justice of the peace is
empowered to hear all causes personally, and that he cannot
try them by a jury. The question, then, is brought to this
narrow point: whether the enlargement of a justice's jurisdiction, with the right of appeal, as it existed when the
constitution was adopted, is a violation of the above privilege,
secured by that instrument. I am clear that it is not; and
that a construction of this nature is equally unwarranted by
the words, and by the intention, of the constitution. An
instrument remains inviolate if it is not infringed; and by a
violation of the trial by jury, I understand taking it away,
prohibiting it, or subjecting it to unreasonable and burdensome regulations, which, if they do not amount to a literal
prohibition, are, at least, virtually of that character. It
never could be the intention of the constitution to tie up the
hands of the legislature, so that no change of jurisdiction
could be made, and no regulation even of the right of trial
by jury could be had. It is sufficient, and within the reason-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

able intendment of that instrument, if the trial by jury be
not impaired, although it may be subjected to new modes,
and even rendered more expensive, if the public interest
demand such alteration. A law containing arbitrary and
.unreasonable provisions, made with the intention of annihilating or impairing the trial by jury, would be subject to the
same considerations, as if the object had been openly and
directly pursued. But, on the other hand, every reasonable
regulation, made by those who value this palladium of our
rights, and directed to the attainment of the public good,
must not be deemed inhibited because it increases the burden
or expense of the litigating parties." " In conclusion, I am
satisfied that the liberty of appeal preserves the right of trial
by jury inviolate, within the words and fair intendment of
the constitution; and that no such unreasonable hardship is
put on the appellant, by the bond required for the prosecution
of the appeal, as to justify the assertion that the right of trial
by jury is in any manner impaired." Beers v. Beers, (1823)
4 Conn. 535, 538-540. See also Colt v. Eves, (1837) 12 Conn.
243, 253; Curtis v. Gill, (1867) 34: Conn. 49.
Before the adoption of the constitution of the State of
Maryland, each of the statutes of the Province "for the
speedy recovery of small debts out of court, before a single
justice of the peace," would appear to have restricted his civil
jurisdiction to claims for thirty-three shillings and four pence,
,as in the statute of 1715, c. 12, or for fifty shillings, as in the
statute of 1763, c. 21. Bacon's Laws.
By the statute of the State of Maryland of 1791, c. 68, "for
the speedy recovery of small debts out of court," § 1, any one
justice of the peace, of the county wherein the debtor resided,
was vested with jurisdiction to try, bear and determine "all
cases where the real debt and damages doth not exceed ten
pounds current money," (or twenty-six and two thirds dollars,) "and, upon full hearing of the allegations and evidences
of both parties, to give judgment, according to the laws of
the land, and the equity and right of the matter." By § 6,
his jurisdiction was made exclusive to that extent. By § 4,
"in all cases where the debt or demand doth exceed twenty

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

shillings common money," (or two and two thirds dollars,)
"and either plaintiff or defendant shall think him or herself
aggrieved by the judgment of any magistrate, he or she shall
be at liberty to appeal to the next county court, before the justices thereof, who are hereby, upon the petition of the appellant, in a summary way, empowerediand directed to bear the
allegations and proofs of both parties, and determine upon the
same according to the law of the land, and the equity and
right of the matter;" and "either of the said parties may
demand a trial by 'jury, or leave the cause to be determined
by the court, at their election." And by § 5, the appellant
was required to give bond with sufficient sureties, in double
the sum to be recovered, to prosecute his appeal, and to pay
the appellee, "in case the said judgment shall be affirmed, as
well the debt, damage and cost adjudged by the justice frQm
whose judgment such appeal shall be made, as also all cost
and damage that shall be awarded by the court before whom
such appeal shall be heard, tried and determined." Latrobe's
Justices' Vractice, (1st ed. 1826) pp. 56, 112, 360, 362; 2 Kilty's
Laws.
By the statute of Maryland of 1809, c. 76, % 1, 6, (3 Kilty's
Laws,) the exclusive original jurisdiction of justices of the
peace was extended to all cases where the real debt or damages demanded did not exceed fifty dollars. And by the statute of Maryland of 1852, c. 239, their original jurisdiction was
extended to all cases of contract, tort or replevin, where the
sum or damage or thing demanded did not exceed one hundred dollars, with a right of appeal to the county court; and
was made concurrent with that of the county court where it
exceeded fifty dollars.
In Steuart v.. Baltimore, (1855) 7 Maryland, 500, the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, speaking by Judge Eccleston, said:
"In the third section of the old bill of rights, it was declared
'that the inhabitants of Maryland are entitled to the common
law of England, and the trial by jury, according to the course
of that law.' Notwithstanding this, the legislature passed
laws at different times, extending the jurisdiction of justices
of the peace in matters of contract, and giving jurisdiction

OCTOBER TE RM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in matters of tort where they had none previously. These
laws, of course, made no provision for trials by jury except on
appeal to the county courts, and yet they were constantly acquiesced in, and not considered as being repugnant to the bill
of rights." The court then referred to Ikorford v. Ba-nes,
Beers v. Beers and cfcDonaldv. Schell, above cited, and added:
"These cases fully establish the principle that where a law
secures a trial by jury upon an appeal, it is no violation of a
constitutional provision for guarding that right, although such
law may provide for a primary trial without the intervention
of a jury. This is upon the ground that the party, if he thinks
proper, can have his case decided by a jury before it is finally
settled." 7' aryland, 511, 512.
To the like general effect are the following: Kentucky Stat.
January 30, 1812, § 4-6, 2 Morehead & Brown's Digest, pp.
893, 894; Pollardv. llolema, (1816) 4 Bibb, 4116; Head v.
Hughes, (1818) 1 A. K. Marshall, 372 ; Feemster v. Anderson,.
(1828) 6 T. B. Monroe, 537; Flint River Co. v. Foster,(1848)
5 Georgia, 194, 208; Lincoln v. Smith, (1855) 27 Vermont, 328,
361; Lamb v. Lane, (1851) 4 Ohio St. 167, 180; NSorton v. -3feLeary, (1858) 8 Ohio St. 205, 209 ; ecekner v. Warner,'(1872)
22 Ohio St. 275, 291, 292; Cooley Const. Lim. (6th ed.) 505;
1 Dillon Mun. Corp. (4th ed.) § 439.
VI. When the District of Columbia passed under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, the statute of Maryland of 1791, c. 68, above quoted, (having been continued in
force by the statute of that State of 1798, c. 71, 2 Kflty,) was
one of the laws in force in the District.
The act of Congress of February 27, 1801, c. 15, in § 1, enacted that the laws in force in the State of Maryland, as they
then existed, should be and continue in force in that part of
the District which had been ceded by that State to the United
States - which, since the retrocession of the county of Alexandria to th State of Virginia by the act of Congress of July
9, 1846, c. 35, (9 Stat. 35,) is the whole of the District of Columbia- and, in § 11, provided for the appointment of "such
number of discreet persons to be justices of the peace" in the
District of Columbia as the. President should think expedient,

CAPITAL TRACTIOIN COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

who should continue in office five years, and: who should "in
all matters civil and criminal, and in whatever relates to the
conservation of the peace, have all the powers vested in, and
shall perform all the duties required of, justices of the peace,
as individual magistrates, by the laws hereinbefore continued
in force in those parts of said District for which they shall
have been respectively appointed;- and they shall have cognizance in-personal demands of the value of twenty dollars, exclusive of costs; which sum they shall not exceed, any law to
the contrary notwithstanding." 2 Stat. 104, 107.
In quoting the provisions of subsequent acts of Congress, the
reenactments of them in the corresponding sections of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia will be referred to in
brackets.
On March 1, 1823, Congress took up the subject in the act
of 1823, c. 24, entitled "An act to extend the jurisdiction of
justices of the peace in the recovery of debts in the District of
Columbia." 3 Stat. 743.
The first section of that act gave to any one justice of the
peace, of the county wherein the defendant resided, jurisdiction to try, hear and determine "all cases where the real debt
or damages do not exceed the sum of fifty dollars, exclusive of
costs," "and, upon full hearing of the allegations and evidence
of both parties, to give judgment, according to the laws existing in the said District of Columbia, and the equity and right
of the matter, in the same manner and under the same rules
and regulations, to all intents and purposes, as such justices of
the peace are now authorized and empowered to do when the
debt and damages do not exceed the sum of twenty dollars,
exclusive of costs." [Rev. Stat. D. C. § 997, 1006.] And by
section 6, the jurisdiction of justices of the peace up to fifty
dollars was made exclusive. [Rev. Stat. D. C. § 769.] The
reference in section 1 was evidently to the act of Congress of
February 27, 1801, § 11, above quoted; and sections 1 and 6 of
the act of 1823 followed, as to jurisdictional amount, the statute of Maryland of 1809, c. 76, §§ 1, 6.
Sections 3 and 4 of the act of Congress of 1823 made it
the duty of every justice of the peace to keep a docket con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

taining a record of his proceedings, and subjected him to
damages to any person injured by his neglect to keep one.
[Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 1000, 1001.] Those provisions were
evidently taken from the statute of Maryland of 1809, c. 76,
§ 4, 5. But they never were considered, either in. the State
of Maryland or in the District of Columbia, as making a justice of the peace a court of record.
By section 7 of the act of Congress of 1823, "in all cases
where the debt or demand doth exceed the sum of five dollars,
and either plaintiff or defendant shall think him or herself
aggrieved by the judgment of any justice of the peace, he or
she shall be at liberty to appeal to the next Circuit Court in
the county in which the said judgment shall have been rendered, before the- judges thereof, who are hereby, upon the
petition of the appellant, in a summary way, empowered and
directed to hear the allegations and proofs of both parties,
and determine upon the same according to law, and the equity
and right of the matter;" "and either of the said parties may
demand a trial by jury, or leave the cause to be determined
by the court, at their election." [Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 1027,
775, 776.] These provisions (increasing the requisite sum,
however, from twenty shillings, or two and two thirds dollars,
to five dollars) were evidently copied from the statute of Maryland of 1791, c. 68, § 4, above, cited; and the provision of
§ 5 of that statute, which required the appellant to give bond
with sureties to pay, if the judgment should be affirmed, as
well the sum and costs adjudged by the justice of the peace,
as also those awarded by the appellate court, was not repealed
or modified by the act of Congress of 1823, and appears to
have been considered as still in force in the District of Columbia. Butt v. Stinger, (1832) 4 Cranch C. C. 252.
The same act of 1823, for the first time in the legislation
of Congress, provided that actions might be tried by a jury
before a justice of the peace, as follows:
"SEc. 15. In every action to be brought by. virtue of this
act, where the sum demanded shall exceed twenty dollars, it
shall be lawful for either of the parties to the suit, after issue
joined, and before the justice shall proceed to inquire into the

CAPITAL TRACTION COPANY v. HOF.

33 .

, Opinion of the Court.

merits of the cause, to demand of the said justice that such
action be tried by a jury; and upon said demand the said justice is hereby required to issue a venire under his hand and
seal, directed to any constable of the county where said cause is
to be tried, commanding him to summon twele jurors to be
and appear before the justice issuing such venire, at such time
and place as shall be therein expressed; and the jurors thus summoned shall possess the qualifications, and be subject to the
exceptions, now existing by law in the District of Columbia.
"SEC. 16. If any of the persons so summoned and returned
as jurors shall not appear, or be challenged and set aside, the
justice before whom said cause is to be tried shall direct the
constable to summon and return forthwith a tales, each of
whom shall be subject to the same exceptions as the jurors
aforesaid, so as to make up the number of twelve, after all
causes of challenge are disposed of -by the justice.; and the
said twelve persons shall be the jury who shall try the cause,
-each of whom shall be sworn by the justice well and truly to
try the matter in diff6rence between the parties, and a true
verdict to give, according to evidence; and the said jury, being sworn, shall sit together, and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, in public, and when the samde is gone
through with, the justice shall administer to the constable the
following oath, viz.: 'You do swear, that you will keep this
jury together in some private room, without meat or drink,
except water; that you will not suffer any person to speak to
them, nor will you speak to them yourself, unless by order of
the justice, until they have agreed -on their verdict.' And
when the jurors have agreed bnutheir verdict, they shall deliver the saibe publicly to the justice, who is hereby required
to give judgment forthwith thereon; and the said justice is
hereby authorized to issue execution on said judgment, in the
manner, and under the limitations, hereinbefore directed."
3 Stat. 746. [Rev. Stat. D. 0. §§ 1009-1017.]
These sections, providing for a trial by a jury before the
justice of the peace, would appear, from their position in the
act, to have been added, by an afterthought, to the scheme bf
the earlier sections, derived fromh the legislation of Maryland,
voL. CLXXlV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and providing for a trial without any jury before a justice of
the peace, and for a trial by jury, if demanded by either party,
in an appellate court; and were evidently taken, in great part
verbatil, from the twelfth section of the statute of New York
of 1801, c. 166 (which gave justices of the peace jurisdiction
of actions in which the debt or damages did not exceed
twenty-five dollars,) as modified by the twenty-second section
of the statute of New York of 1818, c. 91, which extended
their civil jurisdiction to fifty dollars. The material parts of
both those statutes are copied, for convenience of comparison,
in the margin.'
11 In every action to be brought by virtue of this act, it shall be lawful
for either of the parties to the suit, or the attorney of either of them, after
issue joined, and before the cotirt shall proceed to inquire into the merits of
the cause, to demand of the said court that such action be tried by a jury;
and upon such demand the said justice holding such court is hereby required
to issue a venire, directed to any constable of the city or town where the said
cause is to be tried, commanding him to summon twelve good and lawful
men, being freeholders or freemen of such city, or being freeholders of such
town, where said cause is to be tried, and who shall be in nowise of kin to
the plaintiff or defendant, nor interested in such suit, to be and appear before such justice issuing such venire, at such time and place as shall be expressed in such venire, to make a jury for trial of the action between the
parties mentioned in the said venire." [It is then provided that the names
of the jurors so summoned shall be written on separate papers and put into
a box.] "And on the trial of such cause such justice, or such indifferent
person as he shall appoint for that purpose, shall draw out six of the said
papers one after another; and if any of the persons whose names shall be
so drawn shall not appear, or shall be challenged and set aside, then such
further number thereof shall be drawn as shall make up the number of six
who do appear, after all legal causes of challenge allowed by the said justice, unless'the said parties agree that the said constable shall summon six
men at his discretion; and the said six persons so first drawn and appearing and approved by the court as indifferent, shall be the jury who shall
try the cause, to each of whom the said justice shall administer the following oath: ' You do swear in the presence of Almighty God, that you will
well and truly try the matter in difference between-plaintiff anddefendant, and a true verdict will give according to evidence.' And after the
said jury have taken the oath aforesaid, they shall sit together, and hear the
several proofs and allegations of the parties, which shall be delivered in
public in their presence." [Provision is then made for the form of oath to
be administered to witnesses.] "And after hearing the proofs and allega4ions, the jury shall be kept together in some convenient place until helr

CAPITAL TRACTIO1

COMPANY v. HOF.

Opinion of the Court

The provisions of the New York statute of 1801, (copied in
the margin,) were reenacted, almost word for word, in the
statutes of that State of 1808, c. 20:, § 9, and of 1813, c.
53, § 9.
The New York statutes of 1801, 1808 and 1813, indeed,
differed from the act of Congress of 1823, in giving a justice
of the peace civil jurisdiction up to twenty-five dollars only;
in authorizing every action "brought by virtue of this act,"
without restriction of amount, to be tried by a jury before a
justice of the peace; in providing for a jury of six, instead
of a jury of twelve men; and in the mode of selecting the
jury; but were construed to authorize the justice of the peace
(as the act of Congress of 1823 afterwards did in terms) to
award a tales in case of a default of the jurors summoned on
the venire. Zeely v. Yansen, (1807) 2 Johns. 386.
The New York statute of 1818, however; like the act of
Congress of 1823, extended the civil jurisdiction of a justice
all agree upon a verdict, and for which purpose a constable shall be sworn,
and to whom the said justice shall administer the following oath, viz.:
' You do swear in the presence of Almighty God, that you will, to the utmost of your ability, keep every person sworn on this inquest together in
some private and convenient place, without mneat or drink, except water;
you will not suffer any person to speak to them, nor speak to them yourself,
unless by order of the justice, unless it be to .ask them whether they have
agreed on their verdict, until they have agreed on their.verdict.' And
when the jurors have agreed on their verdict, they shall deliver the same
to the justice in the same court, who is hereby required to give judgment
thereupon, and to award execution in manner hereafter directed." N. Y.
Stat. 1801, c. 165, § 12.
"In every action to be brought by virtue of this act, wherein the sum
or balance due, or thing demanded, shall exceed twenty-five dollars, if
either of the parties, the agent or attorney of either of them, after issue
joined, and before the court shall proceed to inquire into the merits of the
cause, shall demand of the court that such action be tried by a jury, and
that such jury shall consist of twelve men, the vemnfre to be issued shall
In every such case require twenty good and lawful men to be summoned as
jurors, and the jury for the trial of every such issue shall in such cases
consist of twelve men, instead of six, as in other cases of trial before a
justice; and the provisions in the ninth and tenth sections of the act above
mentioned [of 1813, c. 53, rebnacting the statute of 1801, c. 165, §§ 12, 13,]
shall be followed, and shall be deemed to apply in every other respect."
N.Y. Stat. 1818, c. 94, § 22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the peace to fifty dollars, and (in the section copied in the
margin) provided for a trial by a jury of twelve men before
"the justice of the peace, although it differed from the act of
Congress in allowing such a trial to be had only when the
sum demanded exceeded twenty-five dollars, whereas the act
of Congress allowed it whenever the sum demanded exceeded
twenty dollars.
The New York statute of 1801 also, in its first section,
differed from the act of Congress, by expressly authorizing a
justice of the peace to hold a court, and vesting him with all
the powers of a court of record; and, in the twelfth section,
by not requiring the justice of the peace to give judgment
"forthwith" upon the verdict of the jury.
Yet under that statute it was held by the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, in per curiam opinions, doubtless
delivered by Chancellor (then Chief Justice) Kent, and, before
the passage of the act of Congress of 1823, was understood to
be settled law in that State, that upon a trial by a jury before
a justice of the peace, (differing in these respects from a trial
by jury in a superior court,) the jury were to decide both the
law and the facts, and the justice was bound to render judgment, as a thing of course, upon the verdict of the jury,
and had no authority to arrest- the judgment or to order
a new trial. B'elter v. .Aulliner, (1807) 2 Johns. 181; .M'Neil
v.-Scoffield, (1808) 3 Johns. 436; Hess v. Beekman, (1814) 11
Johns. 457; Cowen's Justice of the Peace,(lst ed. 1821) 541,
544.
By a familiar canon of interpretation, heretofore applied by
this court whenever Congress, in legislating for the District of
Columbia, has borrowed from the statutes of a State provisions which had received in that State a known and settled
'construction before their enactment by Congress, that construction must be deemed to have been adopted by Congress
together with the text which it expounded, and the provisions'
must be construed as they were understood at the time in the
State. -MetropolitanRailroadv. .oore, (1887) 121 U. S. 558,
572; Willis v. Eastern Trust Co., (1898) 16" U. S. 295, 307,
308.

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

VII. The questions of the validity and the effect of the act
of Congress of 1823 then present themselves in this aspect:
The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the Uinited
States secures to either party to every suit at law, in -which
the value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury; and forbids any such suit, in which there has
once been a trial by jury, within the sense of the conimon law
and of the Constitution, to be tried anew upon the facts in any
court of the United States.
Congress, when enlarging, by the act of 1823, the exclusive
original jurisdiction of justices of the peace in the District of
Columbia from twenty to fifty dollars, manifestly intended
that the dictates of the Constitution should be fully carried
out, in letter and spirit. With this object in view, Congress
first enacted that "in all cases" before a justice of the peace,
in which the demand exceeded five dollars, either the plaintiff
or the defendant should have a right to appeal from the
judgment of the justice of the peace to the Circuit Court of
the United States, and either of the parties might elect to
have "a trial by jury" in that court. Congress also, by way
of additional precautioh, further enacted that every case, in
which the sum demanded exceeded twenty dollars, should, if
either party so requested, "be tried by a jury" of twelve men
before the justice of the peace.
In all acts of Congress regulating judicial proceedings,
the very word "appeal," unless restricted by the context,
indicates that the facts, as well as the law, involved in the
judgment below, may be reviewed in the appellate court.
lVM8cart v. Dauchy, (1796) 3 Dall. 321, 327; In re .Yeagle,
(1890) 135 U. S. 1, 42; -Dower v. Richards, (1894) 151 U. S.
658, 663, 664.
-By section 7 of the act of 1823, the right of appeal to a
court of record was expressly. given-_" in all cases where the
debt or demand doth exceed the sum of five dollars, and
either plaintiff or defendant shall think him or herself aggrieved by the judgment of any justice of the peace." The
words "in all cases," in their natural meaning, include cases
which have been tried by a jury before the ju'stice of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

peace, as well as those tried by him without a jury; and we
perceive no necessity and no reason for restricting their application to the latter class of cases, and thereby allowing the
fact, that upon the demand of one party the case has been
tried by a jury before the justice of the peace, to prevent the
other party from appealing to a court of record and obtaining
a trial by jury in that court.
Neither the direction of section 1, that the justice of the
peace should give judgment "according to the laws existing
in the District of Columbia, and the equity and right of the
matter," nor the similar direction of secti6n 7, that the case
should be determined on appeal "according to law, and the
equity and right of the matter," can reasonably be construed
as conferring chancery jurisdiction, either upon the justice of
the peace, or upon the appellate court, or as substituting the
rules bf technical equity for the rules of law.
The trial by jury, allowed by the seventh section of the act,
in a court of record, in the presence of a judge having the
usual powers of superintending the course of the trial, instructing the jury on the law and advising them on the facts,
and setting aside their verdict if in his opinion against the
law or the evidence, was undoubtedly a .trial by jury, in the
sense of the common law, and of the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution.
But a trial by a jury before a justice of the peace, pursuant
to sections 15 and 16 of the act, was of quite a different character. Congress, in regulating this matter, might doubtless
allow cases within the original jurisdiction of a justice of the
peace to be tried and decided in the first instance by any
specified number of persons in his presence. But such persons, even if required to be twelve in number, and called a
jury, were rather in the nature of special commissioners or
referees. A justice of the peace, having no other powers than
those conferred by Congress on such an officer in the District
of Columbia, was not, properly speaking, a judge, or his tribunal a court; least of all, a court of record. The proceedings before him were not according to the course of the
common law; his authority was created and defined by, and

CAPITAL TRACTION COMIPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

rested upon, the acts of Congress only. The act of 1823, in
permitting cases before him to be tried by jury, did not require him to superintend the course of the trial or to instruct
the jury in matter of law; nor did it authorize him, upon the
return of their verdict, to arrest judgment upon it, or to set
it aside, for any cause whatever; but made it his duty to
enter judgment upon it forthwith, as a thing of course. A
body of men, so free from judicial control, was not a bommon
law jury; nor was a trial by them a trial by jury, within the
meaning of the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution. It
was no more a jury, in the constitutional sense, than it would
have been, if it had consisted, as has been more usual in statutes authorizing trials by a jury before a justice of the peace,
of less than twelve men.
There was nothing, therefore, either in the Constitution of
the United States, or in the act of Congress, to prevent facts
once tried by such a jury before the justice of the peace from
being tried anew by a constitutional jury' in the appellate
court.
Y-I. The majority of the Court of Appeals, in the case
at bar, in holding that no appeal lay from a judgment-entered
by a justice of the peace on a verdict in the District of Columbia, appears to have been much influenced by the praQtice,
which it declared to have prevailed in the District for seventy
years, in accordance with decisions made by the Circuit Court
of the United States of the District of Columbia soon after
the passage of the act of Congress of 1823. But the reasons
assigned for those decisions are unsatisfactory and inconclusive.
Such decisions, indeed, were made by the Circuit Court in
several early cases. Davidson v. Burr, (1824) 2 Cranch C. C.
515; Ifaddox v. Stewar't, (1824) 2 Cranch C. C. 523; _Denny
v. Queen, (1827) -3 Cranch C. 0..217; Smith v. Chase, (1828)
3 Cranch 0. C. 348. Yet the appellant in one of those cases,
whose appeal had been dismissed as unauthorized by law,
was notwithstanding held liable on his bond to prosecute the
appeal. Chase v. Smith, (1830) 4 Cranch C. C. 90.
The decisions in question would appear, by the brief notes

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of them in the reports of Chief Justice Cranch, to have proceeded upon'the assumption that the trial before a justice of
the peace, by a jury empanelled pursuant to the act of 1823,
was a trial by jury within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, and therefore the facts cculd not be
tried, anew upon appeal. In Smith v. Chase, however, that
learned judge (declaring that he spoke for himself only) delivered an elaborate opinion, in which he maintained the position that, upon the demand of a trial by a jury, the cause
was taken entirely out of the hands of the justice of the
peace; that he was obliged to summon and swear the jury,
and to render judgment according to their verdict'; that no
authority was given to him to instruct the jury upon matter
of law or of fact, or to set aside their verdict and grant a new
trial; and that the jury were not bound by his opinion upon
.matter of law, but were to decide the law as well as the fact.
3 Cranch C. C. 351, 352. From these premises he inferred
(by whattrain of reasoning does not clearly appear) that such
a trial by a jury before the justice of the peace was a trial by
jury within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution; that the facts so tried, therefore, could not be
tried anew in an appellate court; and that no appeal lay in
such a case. Curiously enough, that opinion, purporting to
have been delivered at December term, 1828, refers to the
opinion of this court in Parsonsv. Bedford, 3 Pet. 446-448,
which was not delivered until January term, 1830.
In 1863, all the powers and jurisdiction, previously possessed by the Circuit Court of the District, including the
appellate jurisdiction from justices of the peace, were transferred by Congress to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. Act of March 3, 1863, a. 91, §§ 1, 3, 12; 12 Stat.
762-64. [Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 60, 1027.]
The foregoing decisions of the Circuit Court were followed
in the Supreme Court of the District at general term in 1873,
without much discussion, in -Fitzgerald v. Zeisman, 3 McArthur, 6; and at special term- in 1896, by Justice Bradley
in Brightwood Railway v. O'_Neal, 24 Wash. Law Rep. 406,
and by Justice Cox in the present case. Capital Traction

CAPITAL TRACTION COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Hlof, 24 Wash. Law Rep. 646. But each of these two
judges, while holding himself bound by the previous decisions
of the courts of the District, expressed a clear and positive
opinion that they were erroneous.
Apart from the inconsistencies in the opinions delivered in
the courts of the District of Columbia, it is quite clear that
the decisions of those courts, especially when they involve
questions of the interpretation of the Constitution of the
United States, and of the constitutionality and effect of acts
of Congress, cannot be considered as establishing the law, or
as relieving this court from the responsibility of exercising its
own judgment. .
loxprte WIilson, (1885) 114 U. S. 417, 425;
Andrews v. ilovey, (1888) 124 U. S. 694, 717; The J. E.
PunbelZ, (1893) 148 U. S. 1, 17.
IX. The legislation of Congress since the act of 1823 has
not changed the character of the office, or the nature of the
powers, of the justices of the peace in the District of Columbia,
or of the juries summoned to try cases before those justices.
The principal changes have been by enlarging the limits of the
civil jurisdiction of the justices of the peace, and by expressly.
requiring security on appeals from their judgments.
By the act of February 22, 1867, c. 63, § 1, (14 Stat. 401,)
Congress enlarged the jurisdiction of justices of the peace
in the District of Columbia to "all cases where the amount
claimed to be due for debt or damages arising out of contracts, express or implied, or damages for wrongs or injuries
to persons or property, does not exceed one hundred dollars,
except in cases involving the title to real estate, actions to
recover damages for assault, or assault and battery, or for
malicious prosecution, or actions against justices of the peace
or other officers for misconduct in office, or in actions for
slander, verbal or written." [Rev. Stat. D. C. § 997.] And
on the same day,. Congress, by the act of 1867, c. 64, (14 Stat.
403,) provided that "no appeal shall be allowed from a
judgment of a justice of the p6ace, unless the appellant, with
sufficient surety or sureties, approved by the justice, enter
into an undertaking to satisfy and pay all intervening damages and costs arising on the appeal ;" and that, "when such

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

undertaking has been entered into, the justice shall immediately file the original papers, including a copy of his dockei
entries, in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia; and thereupon, as soon as the appellant shall have made the deposit for costs required by law,
or obtained leave from one of the justices, or from the
court, to prosecute his appeal without a deposit, the clerk
shall docket the cause," and it should be proceeded with substantially in the manner prescribed by the act of Congress of
1823. [Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 1027-1029, 774.]
In 1874, the provisions, above quoted, of the acts of 1823
and 1867, were regnacted (with hardly any change except by
subdividing and transposing sections) in the Revised Statutes
of the District of Columbia, at the places above referred to in
brackets.
By the act of February 19, 1895, c. 100, §§ 1, 2, ju.stices of the
peace of the District of Columbia have been granted (with the
same exceptions as in the act of February 22, 1867, c. 63, also
excepting, however, actions for damages for breaches of promise
to marry, and not excepting actions for assault or for assault and
battery) exclusive original jurisdiction of "all civil pleas and
actions, including attabhment and replevin, where the amount
claimed to be due or the value of the property sought to be
recovered does not exceed" one hundred dollars, and concurrent original jurisdiction with the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, where it is more than one hundred and not
more than three hundred dollars; "and where the sum claimed
exceeds twenty dollars, either party shall be entitled to a trial
by jury?' And by § 3, "no appeal shall be allowed from the
judgment of a justice of the peace in any common law action,
unless the matter in demand in such'action, or pleaded in setoff thereto, shall exceed the sum of five dollars; nor unless the
appellant, with sufficient surety approved by the justice, enters
into an undertaking to pay and satisfy whatever final judgment may be recovered in the appellate court." 28 Stat. 668.
Under the act of 1895, as under the previous acts of Congress, where the matter in controversy exceeds five dollars in
value, an appeal lies to a court of record from any judgment

CAPITAL TRACTIONT COMPANY v. HOF.
Opinion of the Court.

of a justice of the peace, whether rendered upon a verdict or
not, and either party may have a trial by a common law jury
in the appellate court; and the trial by jury in that court is,
and the trial before a justice of the peace is not, a trial by
jury within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution.
The only question remaining to be considered is of the constitutionality of the provisions of the act of 1895, by which
the civil jurisdiction of justices of the peace is extended to
three hundred dollars, and either party, on appealing from the
judgment of the justice of the peace to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, is required to enter into an undertaking to pay and satisfy whatever judgment may be rendered
in that court.
For half a century and more, as has been seen, after the
adoption of the earliest constitutions of the several States,
their courts uniformly maintained the constitutionality of
statutes more than doubling the pecuniary limit of the civil
jurisdiction of justices of the peace as it stood before the adoption of constitutions declaring that trial by jury should be preserved inviolate, although those statutes made no provision
for a trial by jury, except upon appeal from the judgment of
the justice of the peace, and upon giving bond with surety to
pay the judgment of the appellate court. And such appears
to have been understood to be the law of Maryland and of
the District of Columbia before and at the time of the passage
of the act of Congress of 1823.
Legislation increasing the civil jurisdiction of justices of
the peace to two or three hundred dollars, and requiring
each appellant from the judgment of a justice of the peace
to a court of record, in which a trial by jury-may be had for
the first time, to give security for the payment of the judgment of the court appealed to, has not generally been considered as unreasonably obstructing the right of trial by jury,
as is shown by the numerous statutes cited in"the margin,'
1

ARKANSAs. Digest 1891, §§ 4317, 4431, 4432.
CAInFORMA. Code of Civil Procedure 1872, §§ 114, 974, 978.

OTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

from which it appears that the civil jurisdiction of justices of
the peace has been increased-to three hundred dollars in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Kansas, Arkansas, Colorado and
California; to two hundred and fifty dollars in Missouri; and
to two hundred dollars in New York, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Delaware, North Carolina, Mississippi and Texas; and
that the appellant is required (at least when the appeal is to
operate as a supersedeas) to enter into a bond or rbcognizance,
not only to prosecute his appeal, but to pay the judgment of
the appellate court, in all those States, except Pennsylvania;
and in that State any corporation, except a municipal corporation, is required to give such a bond, but other appellants are
required to give bond for the payment of costs only. And
we have not been referred to a single decision in any of those
States that holds such a statute to be unconstitutional in any
respect.
The legislature, in distributing the judicial power between
courts of record, on the one hand, and justices of the peace
or other subordinate magistrates, on the other, with a view to
prevent unnecessary delay and unreasonable expense, must
have a considerable discretion, whenever in its opinion, beCOLORADO. Rev. Stat. 1867, c. 50, 9§ 1, 38,39; Gen. Laws 1877, §9 1482,
1519, 1520; Gen. Stat. 1883, §§ 1924, 1979, 1980.
DBLAWARE. Rev. Stat. 1893, c. 99, §§ 1, 25.
ILLINOIS. Rev. Stat. 1874, c. 79, §§ 13, 62; Starr & Curtis's Stat. 1896,
c. 79, §§ 16, 115.
INDIAxA. Rev. Stat. 1881, §§ 1433, 1500.
- KUSAS.
Gen. Stat. 1868, c. 81, §§ 2, 121; Gen. Stat. 1897, c. 103, §§ 20,
188.
MICHIGAN. Rev. Stat. 1872, §§ 5249, 5433; Howell's Stat. 1882, §§ 6814,
7000.
Mississippi. Code 1892, §§ 2394, 82.
MissoUni. Rev. Stat. 1889, §§ 6122, 6328.
NEw YORK. Stat. 1861, c. 158; Rev. Stat. 1875, (6th ed.) pt. 3, tit. 2,
§ 56; tit. 4, § 53.
NORTH CAROLI1XA.
Code 1883, 89 834, 884.
OHIO. Rev. Stat. 1880, §§ 585, 6584.
PENNSYLVANmA. Stat. July 7, 1879, c. 211; Purdon's Digest, 1885, (11th
ed.) Justice of the Peace, §§ 35, 99, 100.
TExAs. Rev. Stat. 1879, §§ 1539, 1639; Rev. Stat. 1895, §§ 1568, 1670.
WIscoNsIn. Rev. Stat. 1878, §9 3572, 3756; Stat. 1898, §§ 3572, 3760.

CAPITAL TRACTION1

COMPA1N.v. HOF.

Opinion of the Court.

cause of general increase in litigation, or other change of
circumstances, the interest and convenience of the public
require it, to enlarge within reasonable bounds the pecuniary
amounts of the classes of claims entrusted in the first instance
to the decision of justices of the peace, provided always the
right of trial by jury is not taken away in any case in which
it is secured by the Constitution.
Having regard to the principles and to the precedents applicable to this subject, we should not be warranted in declaring
that the act of Congress of 1895 so unreasonably obstructs the
right of trial by jury, that it must for this reason be held to
be unconstitutional and void.
X. Upon the whole matter, our conclusion is, that Congress,
in the exercise of its general and exclusive power of legislation
over the District of Columbia, may provide for- the trial of
civil causes of moderate amount by a justice of the peace, or,
in*his presence, by a jury of twelve, or of any less. number,
allowing to either party, where the value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, the right to appeal from the judgment
of the justice of the peace to a court of record, and to have a
trial by jury in that court; that Congress, in every case where
the value in controversy exceeds five dollars, has authorized'
either party to appeal from the judgment of the justice of the
peace, although entered upon the verdict of a jury, to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and to have a trial
by jury in that court; that the trial by a jury of twelve, as
permitted by Congress to be had before a justice of the peace,
is not, and the trial by jury in the appellate court is, a trial by
jury, within the meaning of the common law, and of the
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution; -that therefore the
trial of facts by a jury before the justice of the peace does not
prevent those facts from being reexamined by a jury in the
appellate court; that the right of trial by jury in the appellate
court is not unduly obstructed by the provisions enlarging the
civil jurisdiction of justices of the peace to three hundred dollars, and requiring every appellant to.give security to pay and
satisfy the judgment of, the appellate court; that the legislation of Congress upon the subject is in all respects consistent

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Parties.

with the Constitution of the United States; and that upon
these grounds (which are substantially those taken by Chief
Justice Alvey below) the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
quashing the writ of certiorari to the justice of the peace, must
be affirmed.

The effect of so affirming that judgment will be to leave the
claim of Hof against the Capital Traction Company open to
be tried by a jury before the justice of the peace, and, after
his judgment upon their verdict, to be taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and to be there
tried by jury on the demand of eitfier party.
Judgment aflrmed.
MR. JUSTIcE BREnw

concurred in the judgment of affirm-

ance, but dissented from so much of the opinion as upheld the
validity of the provision of the act of Congress requiring every
appellant from the judgment of a justice of the peace to give
bond with surety for the payment of the judgment of the
appellate court.
MR. JusTime BnowN did not sit in this case, or take any part
in its decision.

In

No. 114, METROPOLITA-

RA-LWAY ComPANv v. CmURcH, and

No. 195, BliGHTWOOD RAILWAY CoiPANr v. O'NEAL, argued at the
same time, the judgments of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, quashing writs of certiorari to set aside proceedings of a
justice of the peace under similar circumstances, are likewise
Affirmed.
MAfr. D. W Bakcer for Metropolitan Railway Co.
Wilson was on his brief.

Mr. Nathaniel

Mr. Ernest L. Schmidt for Church.
Mr.'.Henry P. Blair and Mr. CorcoranTIhom, for Brightwood Railway Co., submitted on their brief.
Mr. Ramond A. Heiscell and Mr. M. J. Colbert for O'Nea;L

