OCTOBER TERTM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

BOSWORTH v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL RAILROAD
ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Submitted January 25,1899. -Decided

May 1,1899.

A claim was presented against the estate of the Peoria and St. Louis Railwiy
Company in the hands of a receiver, which the receiver disputed. After
reference to a master, and his report, stating the facts, an order was
entered directing the receiver to pay the claim. He appealed from this
decision to the Court of Appeals.. The record on appeal contained the
order of reference, the findings of fact, the report of the master, and
the exceptions of the receiver. The Court of Appeals directed the appeal to be dismissed. Held, That the proper entry should have been an
affirmance of the decree rather than a dismissal.
A receiver may defend, both in the court appointing him and by appeal, the
estate in his possession against all claims which are antagonistic to the
rights of both parties to the suit.
He may likewise defend the estate against all claims which are antagonistic
to the rights of both parties to the suit, subject to the limitation that he
may not in such defence question any order or decree of the court distributing burdens or apportioning rights bietween the parties to the suit,
or any order or decree resting upon the discretion of the court appointing him.
He cannot question any subsequent order or decree of the court distributIng the estate in his hands between the parties to the suit.
He may appeal from an order or decree which affects his personal rights,
provided it is not an order resting in the discretion of the court.
His right to appeal from an allowance of a claim against the estate does
not necessarily fail when the receivership is terminated to the extent of
surrendering the property in the possession of the receiver.

THE facts in this case are briefly these: On September 21,
1893, the Mercantile Trust Company, of New York, filed its
bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois against the Chicago, Peoria
and St. Louis Railway Company, praying foreclosure of a
mortgage and the appointment of a receiver. On the same
day an order was entered appointing the present appellant
receiver of that road. Among other things the order of ap-

BOSWORTH v. TERMIINTAL R'D ASSOCIATION[.

183

Opinion of the Court.

pointment directed the rbceiver to pay "all claims for materials and supplies which have been incurred in the operation
and maintenance of said property during the six months last
past, and all ticket trackage traffic balances due from said
railroad." The plaintiff, the Mercantile Trust Company
objected to this part of the order, but after argument the
objection was overruled. On May 27, 1895, the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis filed an intervening petition, claiming.that it had performed labor and furnished materials for
the defendant railroad company within the six months named
in the order of appointment. The -receiver answered, denying
the claim. The matter was referred to a master, who found
in favor of the petitioner, and on July 30, 1896, the following
decree was entered:
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court
that the receiver herein pay to the intervenor, the Terminal
Railroad Association of St. Louis, the said sum of eight thousand one hundred and sixty-two dollars and eleven cents
($8162.11) out of the income of said receivership, if any such
income is in his hands, and in case he has -not the funds in
hand for this purpose, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed
that the same be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the
mortgaged premises in preference to the mortgage debt, and
until paid the same is hereby declared a lien upon the said
mortgage estate superior to the lien of the mortgage herein."
The receiver appealed from this decree to the Court of
Appeals, but on June 8, 1897, that court dismissed the appeal.
53 U. S. App. 302. Thereafter a certiorari was issued, and
under that writ the case was brought to this court.
-M'. .Bluford Wilson and -Yr. Philip Barton Warren for
appellant.

-.

.M F. Watm, -Y?-. J.

. McKeighan, Xr. SUiepard

Barclay aid Ar. Samuel P. TVeeler for appellee.
MR. JusrxcIE BRiwF,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the record as it was filed in the Court of Appeals,
and independently of other considerations, its decision was
manifestly erroneous. A claim was presented against the estate in the hands of the receiver, which he disputed. A part
of his contention, as appears from the exceptions, was, specifically, that the debt, whatever its amount, was due from the
Jacksonville Southeastern line and not from the mortgagor,
the Chicago, Peoria and St. Louis Railway Company. After
reference to a master, and his report stating the facts, an
order was entered directing the receiver to pay the claim.
Th,. reference, the findings, the report of the master, the
exceptions of the receiver, were all set forth. So that in the
record, as it came to the Court of Appeals, there was a denial
on the part of the receiver of any liability of the estate in his
possession to the petitioner, and a decree adversely thereto.
That alleged liability he was the proper person to contest, and
to.contest both in the court which had appointed him receiver,
and on appeal in the appellate court. But the Court of Appeals, in its opinion directing the dismissal, makes this statement of facts, page 305:
"The contention of the receiver is thus stated in the brief
of his counsel: ' The question thus presented to this court for
determination is one as to the displacement of vested contract
liens by unsecured creditors. There is no controversy as to
the labor having been performed or the materials furnished
within the six months next prior to the appointment of the
receiver of the insolvent corporation, or as to the value of
the same. The only controversy is as to whether or not the
appellee is entitled, on its petition and proof made thereunder,
to have the vested lien of the mortgagee displaced to the extent of his claim.' He insists that the provision in the decree
appointing a receiver providing for the payment of certain
claims as preferential created no vested right; that within
our ruling in Mather ilumane Stock Transportation Company
v. Anderson, 46 U. S. App. 138, the decree in that regard was
interlocutory and is not controlling of the subsequent action
of the court; that within the doctrine declared in Turner
v. ThU Indianapolis,Bloomington and Western Railway Com,

BOSWORTH v. TERMINAL R'D ASSOCIATION.

185

Opinion of the Court.

pany, 8 Bissell, 315; Fosdicek v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; Union
Trust Conpany v. Souther, 107 U. S. 591; Burnham,v. Bowen,
111 U. S. 776; Union Trust Company v. Illinois Afidland
Railway Company, 117 U. S. 434; Wood v. Guarantee Trust
and Safe Deposit Company, 128 U. S. 416; Kneeland v. American Loan and TrustOompany, 138 U. S. 509; Thomas v.
Western Car Company, 149 U. S. 111; Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company v. Green Bay, W. & St. P. Railway Company, 45 Fed. Rep. 664, before a claim can be deemed to be
preferential to 'the mortgage debt there must be first established a diversion of income from the payment of operating
expenses to the payment of interest; and that, failing diversion, there can'be no restoration. The broad ground is taken
that a court of equity, assuming at the request of a trustee the
operation of a railway, has not the right to provide out of the
income or the corpus of the road, for the payment of operating
expenses incurred within a limited time prior to the suit unless there has been diversion of income, and then only to the
extent of such diversion."
And again, page 307:
"The record here is not complete. There has been brought
to this court only so much of the record as is thought to bear
upon the particular question which the receiver desired to present. It was, however, conceded at the argument that prior
to the decree appealed from the railway had been sold under
decree of sale, and had passed out of the possession of the
receiver and into the possession of the purchaser, and that
the receiver had not in hand any moneys with which to pay
the debt adjudged."
Even with the change made in the condition of the case by
these admissions, we are of opinion that the proper entry
should have been an affirmance of the decree rather than a
dismissal. A dismissal implies that the receiver had no right
to appeal; whereas we are of opinion that he was the proper
party to take such appeal, was entitled to a hearing in the
Court of Appeals, and also bound the estate in his possession
as receiver by any admission of facts. Such admission in this
case went so far as to relieve the appellate court from any

OCTOBER TER]x, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

necessity of inquiry as to the merits of the claim, but it was
made' after the case had been taken to the appellate court, and
did not affect the rightfulness of the appeal.
It becomes important to consider what are the rights and
duties of a receiver in respect to claims made against the
estate in his possession. It is often said that he is merely the
hand of the court which has appointed him; and for certain
purposes that is not an inapt expression. He is charged with
the duty of carrying into execution the orders of that court,
but he is also a custodian of property, and has by virtue of
such custody certain obligations to the parties owning or
interested therein.
First. A receiver may defend, both in the court appointing
him and by appeal, the estate in his possession against all
claims which are antagonistic to the rights of both parties
to the suit. For instance, he may thus contest a claim for
taxes, because if valid they are superior to the rights of both
parties; in a case like the present, superior to the rights of
mortgagor and mortgagee.
Second. He may likewise defend the estate against all
claims which are antagonistic to the rights of either party
to the suit, subject to the limitation that he may not in such
defence question any order or decree of the court distributing
burdens or apportioning rights between the parties to the
suit, or any order or decree resting upon the discretion of the
court appointing him. As this is a matter specially pertinent
to the present controversy it may be well to consider briefly
the scope of this proposition: A suit is brought by a mortgagee to foreclose his mortgage, and a receiver is appointed
to take possession of the mortgaged property. The right to
have a decree of foreclosure and sale is an absolute right on
the part of the mortgagee, flowing from a breach of the conditions in the mortgage. But the appointment of a receiver
is a matter resting largely in the discretion of the courtnot, of course, an arbitrary but a legal discretion - and dependig not simply upon the breach of a condition in the mortgage,
but also upon the question of relative injury and benefit to the
parties and the public by the taking of the property out of the

BOSWORTH v. TERMINAL R'D ASSOCIATION.

.187

Opinion of the Court.

possession of the mortgagor and placing it in the hands of a
receiver. In.appointing a receiver the court has a right, within certain recognized limits, to prescribe the terms and conditions of the appointment. A receivership is not essential to a
foreclosure and sale, and the court is charged, when an application therefor is made, with the duty of inquiring whether,
under all the circumstances, considering the interests of the
parties and the public, it is wise and proper to take possession
of the property. It may in its judgment be necessary to
appoint a receiver without prescribing any terms. It may
be that the interests of the parties or the public require that
the appointment shall be made subject to certain conditions.
Now, these conditions, whatever they may be, are beyond the
.challenge of the receiver. He may not say directly or indirectly, "I accept the appointment; I take charge of-the prQperty, but I repudiate the terms and conditions imposed. on the
receivership." Whether under the present state of the statutory law in reference to appeals any review can be had of the
terms of such an order, it is clear that a receiver, whose rights
spring from the appointment, cannot be heard to question
them.
I Third. Neither can he question any subsequent order
or
decree of the court distributing the estate in his hands between the parties to the suit. It is nothing to him whether
all of the property is given to the mortgagee or all returned
to the mortgagor He is to stand indifferent between the
parties, and may not be heard either in the court which
appointed him, or in the appellate court, as to the rightfulness of any order which is a mere order of distribution between the parties. In this connection it must be noticed that
an intervenor, although for certain purposes recognized as a
party to the litigation, is not such a party as comes within
the scope of the limitation just announced. He is one who
comes into the litigation asserting a right antagonistic or
superior to that of one or both of the parties thereto, and a
receiver, who represents, so far as the property is concerned,
the interests of the parties, mayrightfully challenge his claim;
provided that in such challenge he does not question any or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ders of the court heretofore referred to. Let us take some
illustrations : A suit is brought to foreclose a mortgage, a receiver is appointed, and the mortgaged property taken possession of. A party intervenes, asserting that he has a claim
against the mortgagor and the property, but conceding that it
is subordinate to the claim of the plaintiff mortgagee. With
that concession, the mortgagee stands perfectly indifferent
to the question whether the claim be allowed or not. Still, it
cannot be doubted that in such a case the receiver, holding
the property, against which a claim is made, can defend; and
defend not only in the court appointing him, but also by appeal. In that defence he not only represents, it may be said,
the mortgagor's interests, but also protects the property in
his possession.
Take another case: An intervenor presents a claim against
the mortgaged property which the mortgagor admits. There
is, therefore, no defence to be interposed in behalf of the defendant mortgagor, no protection to be sought for the property, and the only question is whether such claim, admitted
by the mortgagor, is to be satisfied out of the mortgaged
property prior to the claim of the mortgagee. The latter is
the only party who has an antagonistic relation to the intervenor. Now, the receiver, who represents both mortgagee
and mortgagor, both plaintiff and defendant, so far as the
custody of the property is concerned, is entitled to defend
against this claim of priority made by the intervenor, and
may defend both in the court appointing him, and also by appeal. It is true in such defence he may not be heard to say
that the terms and conditions imposed in the order of his
appointment were improper, but he may defend on the proposition that the claim presented does not come within those
terms and conditions. Whatever right, if any, the mortgagee
plaintiff may have to question, in resisting such claim, the validity of the terms of the appointment, the receiver cannot
do so; and the only defence he can make is that the claimed
priority has no foundation in the terms of the order; or, if it
be a matter entirely outside of those terms, that it has no
foundation in any recognized legal or equitable principle.

BOSWORTH v. TERMINAL

ID ASSOCIATION.

189

Opinion of the Court.

In the case at bar one defence, as shown by the exceptions
taken to the report of the master, was that the claim of the
intervenor was not against the estate, but against some third
party. That defence the receiver had a right to make. We
do not mean that he alone can act; we do not stop to inquire
what rights either party to the suit may have in this respect.
All we now decide is that the receiver is a proper party to
make the defence. And when he alone makes it, when he
carries on the litigation in his own name as receiver, then as
the representative and custodian of the estate he can, subject
to the supervision of the court, bind it by admissions made in
good faith in the progress of the litigation. And as in the
appellate court, after the appeal had been perfected,, he being
the only party to the appeal, admitted that it was a just claim
against the mortgagor and within the priority over the mqrtgage prescribed in the order of appointment, his admission
showed that the allowance was right, and that the decreeought to be affirmed. But still, until that admission was
made, there was a pending dispute, and he was a proper person to appeal from the allowance.
Fourth. He may appeal from an order or decree which
affects his personal rights, provided it is not an order resting
in the discretion of the court. Thus he may not appeal from
an order discharging or removing him, or one directing him
in the administration of the estate, as for instance to issue'
receiver s certificates, to make improvements, or matters of
that kind, all of which depend on the sound discretion of the
trial court. He may appeal from an order disallowing him
commissions or fees, because that affects him personally, is not
a matter purely of discretion, and does not delay or interfere
with the orderly administration of the estate.
Fifth. His right to appeal from an allowance of a claim
against the estate does not necessarily fail when the receivership is terminated to the extent of surrendering the property
in the possession of the receiver. It is a common practice in
courts of equity, anxious as they are to be relieved of the care
of property, to turn it over to the parties held entitled thereto,
even before the final settlement of all claims against it, and at

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

the same time to leave to the receiver the further defence of
such claims, the party receiving the property giving .security
to abide by any decrees which may finally be entered against
the estate. An admission that the railway property had been
turned over to the purchaser is not therefore of itself conclusive against the right of the receiver to appeal. And the fact
that the trial court allowed the appeal must in the appellate
court be taken, in the absence of other evidence, as sufficient authentication that such reservation of authority had been made
in the order directing the surrender of the property.
It seems unnecessary to say more. We have indicated, so
far as it can safely be done by general propositions, the powers
of a receiver in respect to appellate proceedings. We are of
opinion that the decree of the Court of Appeals should have
been one of affirmance, and to that extent it is modified.
Under the admissions of the receiver the cost of the appellate
proceedings should be paid by him, and this notwithstanding,
in our judgment, the formal order of the Court of Appeals
dismissing the case was incorrect.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is afrmed at the cost
of the apellant.
HUMPHRIES v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Io. 280. 'Argued April 4, 1899.- Decided May 1, 1899.

In this case a jury was empanelled, trial had, and the case submitted on
the 80th of November, 1896, with the following written instructions:
"When the jury agree upon a verdict, write it out, all of the jurors sign
it, date it, seal it up and deliver to the foreman, to be delivered in open
court on the 1st day of December, 1896, and in the presence of all who
sign it." On the 1st of December the jury returned the following verdict
in writing signed by all. The official record of the proceedings is as
follows: "Come here again the parties aforesaid in manner aforesaid,
and the same jury return into court, except John T. Wright, who does
not appear, and having said sealed verdict in his possession as foreman
sends the same to the court by Dr. McWilliams, who delivers the same
to the court with the statement that the said John T. Wright is il1and

