KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR To THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 164. Argued January 20,1899.-Decided April 11, 1899.

On the trial of a person charged with feloniously receiving and .having
in his possession with intent to convert them to his own use, postage
stamps.which had been feloniously stolen, taken and carried away from
a post office by three persons named, although the person so receiving
them well knew that the same had been so feloniously taken, stolen and
carried away, the judgment convicting the said three persons of stealing
the said stamps was received in evidence against the accused, under the
provision In the act of March 3, 1875, c. 144, § 2, that such judgment
"shall be conclusive evidence against said receiver, that the property of
the United States therein described has been embezzled, stolen or purloined." The accused having been convicted, and the case brought here
by writ of error, Held, That that provision of the statute violates the
clause of the Constitution of the United States, declaring that in all
criminal prosecutions, the accused shall be confronted with the witnesses against him; and that the judgment must be reversed.
The contention by the defendant that the indictment is defective in that it
does not allege ownership by the United States of the stolen articles of
property at the time that they were alleged to have been feloniously r'eceived by him, is without merit.
-The objection that the indictment does not show from whom the accused
received the stamps, nor state that the name of such person was unknown to the grand jurors, is not well taken.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. A. G. Saford for plaintiff in error. Xr1. C. 0. Baile,
and .AXr. Josqph Kirby were on his brief.
.Mr. Ae8istant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in

error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error Kirby was indicted in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern Division of the
District of South Dakota under the act of Congress of March 3,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the .Court.

1876, c.144, entitled "An act to punish certain larcenies,
and the receivers of stolen goods." 18 Stat. 479.
The first section provides that "any person who shall embezzle, steal or purloin any money, property, record, voucher
or valuable thing whatever of the moneys, goods, chattels, records or property of the United States shall be deemed guilty
of felony, and on conviction thereof before the District or
Circuit Court of the United States in the district wherein said
offence may have been committed, or into which he shall carry
or have in possession said property so embezzled, stolen. or
purloined, shall be punished therefor by imprisonment at
hard labor in the penitentiary not exceeding five years or by
a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or both, at the discretion of the court before which he shall be convicted."
By the second section it is provided that "if any person
shall receive, conceal or aid in concealing, or have, or retain
in his pqssession with intent to convert to his own use or gain,
any money, property, record, voucher or valuable thing whatever, of the moneys, goods, chattels, records or property of the
United States, which has theretofore been embezzled, stolen
or purloined, such person shall, on conviction before the Circuit or District Court of the United .States in the district
wherein he may have such property, be punished by a fine
not exceeding five thousand dollars, or imprisonment at hard
labor in the penitentiary not exceeding five years, one or both,
at the discretion of the court before which he shall be convicted; and such receiver may be tried either before or after
the conviction of the principal felon, but if the party has been
convicted, then the judgment against him shall be conclusive
evidence in the prosecution against such receiver that the
property of the United States therein described has been embezzled, stolen or purloined." 18 Stat. 479.
The indictment contained three counts, but the defendant
was tried only on the first. In that count it was stated that
Thomas J. Wallace, Ed. Baxter and Frank King on the 7th
day of June, 1896, at Highmore, within the jurisdiction of '.he
court, feloniously and forcibly broke into a post office of the
United States, and feloniously stole, toolk and carried away

'KIRBY v. UNIITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

therefrom certain moneys and property of the United States,
to wit: 3750 postage stamps of the denomination of two cents
and of the value of two cents each, 1266 postage stamps of
the denomination of one cent and of the value of one cent each,
140 postage stamps of the denomination of four cents and
of value of four cents each, 250 postage stamps of the denomination of five cents and of the value of five cents each, 80 postage stamps of the denomination of eight *cents and of the
value of eight cents each, and also United States Treasury
notes, national bank notes, silver certificates, gold dertificates,
silver, nickel and copper coins of the United States as well as
current money of the United States, a more particular description of -whichthe grand jury were unable to ascertain, of the
value of $58.19; and that the persons above named were severally indicted and convicted of that offence, and had been
duly sentenced upon such conviction.
It was then alleged that. the defendant on the 9th day of
June, 1896, at the city of Sioux Falls, the postage stamps "so
as aforesaid feloniously stolen, taken and carried away, feloniously did receive and have in his possession, with intent then
and there to convert the same to his own use and .gain, the
said Joe Kirby then and there well knowing the said postage
stamps to have been theretofore feloniously stolen, taken and
carried away, contrary to the form, force and effect of the
statutes of the United States in such cases made and provided
and against the peace and dignity of the United States."
At the trial of Kirby the Government offered in evidence a
part of the record of the trial of Wallace, Baxter and King,
from which it appeared that Wallace and Baxter after severally pleading not guilty withdrew their respective pleas and
each pleaded guilty and was sentenced to confinement in the
penitentiary at hard labor for the term of four years. It
appeared from the same record that King having pleaded not
guilty was found guilty and sentenced to the penitentiary at
hard labor for the term of five years.
The admission in evidence of the record of the conviction
of Wallace; Baxter and King was objected to upon the ground•
that the above act of March 3, 1875, was unconstitutional so
vOL.oLxxiv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

far as it made that conviction conclusive evidence in the
prosecution of the receiver that the property of the United
States described in the indictment against him had been
embezzled, stolen or purloined. The objection was overruled, and the record offered was admitted in evidence, with
exceptions to the accused.
After referring to the provisions of the act of March 3, 1875,
and to the indictment against Kirby, the court among other
things said, in its charge to the jury: "In order to make out
the case of the prosecution and in order that you should be
authorized to return a verdict of guilty in this case, you must
find beyond a reasonable doubt from the evidence in the case
certain propositions to be true. In the first place it must be
found by you beyond a reasonable doubt that the property
described in the indictment, and which is also described in the
indictment against these three men [Wallace, Baxter and
King] who it is alleged have been convicted, was actually
stolen from the post office at Highmore, was the property
of the United States and of a certain value. Second. You
must find beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant
Joseph Kirby received or had in his possession a portion of
that property which had been stolen from the post office at
Highmore. Third. That he received or had it in his possession with intent to convert it to his own use and gain. Now,
upon the first proposition - as to whether the property
described in the indictment was stolen as alleged in the indictment-the prosecution has introduced in evidence the
record of the trial and conviction of what are known as the
principal felons- that is, the parties who it is alleged committed the larceny. Now, in the absence of any evidence to
the contrary, the record is sufficient proof in this case upon
which you would be authorized to find that the property
alleged in that indictment was stolen as alleged; in other
words, it makes aprimafacie case on the part of the Government which must stand as sufficient proof of the fact until
some evidence is introduced showing the contrary, and, there
being no such evidence in this case, you will, no doubt, haveno trouble in coming to a conclusion that the property

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

described in the indictment was actually stolen, as alleged,
from the post office at Highmore. But I don't want you to
understand me to say that that record proves that the stamps
that were found in Kirby's possession were stolen property, or
that they were the stamps taken from the Highmore post
office. Upon the further proposition that the court has suggested, after you have found, by a careful consideration of all
the evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the property
alleged in the indictment was stolen, then you will proceed to
consider whether or not the defendant ever at any time, either
on the date alleged in the indictment or any other date within
three years previous to the finding of the indictment, had in
his possession or received any of this property which was
stolen from the post office at )iighmore. Now, in order to
find the defendant guilty of the offence charged in the indictment, you would have to find beyond a reasonable doubt from
all the evidence that he either actually received a portion -or
all of the property which was stolen from the post office at
Highmore, and that he received that property from the thief
or thieves who committed the theft at the Highmore post
office or some agent of these thieves. The statute punishes,
you will observe, both the receipt of stolen property, knowing it to have been stolen, with the intent described in the
statute, and also the having in the possession such property,
knowing it to have been stolen, with the intent to convert it
to the person's own use or gain. If you find beyond a reasonable doubt that any of the property which was stolen at the
post office at Highmore was actually received or had in the
possession of the defendant, then you cannot convict unless
you further find that the defendant had the property in his possession or received it from the thief or his agent, knowing at the
time that it was stolen property. Now, upon the question of
whether the defendant knew that it was stolen property, You
will, of course, consider all the evidence in the case. You have
the right to find that the person or the defendant knew that it
was stolen property from the admissions he inay have made,
if he made any, if there is such evidence in the case, or from
other circumstances that you would have the right to- infer

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that he did know. Now, if a person received property under
such circumstances that would satisfy a man of ordinary
intelligence that it was stolen property, and you further find
beyond a reasonable doubt that he actually did believe it was
stolen propefty, then you have a right to infer and find that
at the time of the receipt of the property the person knew
that it was stolen. Now, the next point in the case i in
regard to the intent the defendant had in regard to the use or
disposal of the property. The statute requires that this receipt
of stolen property, knowing it to have been stolen, must also
be with the intent to convert it to the use of the party in whose
possession it is found. There are statutes which simply punish the knowingly receiving stolen property. That was the
common law. But this statute has added this further ingredient that it must be done with the intent to convert it to the
party's own use and gain. It was probably put in for the reason that the statute goes further than the common law, making it punishable to conceal or aid in concealing with intent
to convert it to his own use and gain. Now, all these
propositions that I have charged must be made out by the
prosecution, of course, beyond a reasonable doubt, and in case
you have a reasonable .doubt of any of these ingredients, it
will be your duty to acquit the defendant."
In response to a request from the jury to be further instructed, the court after referring to the indictment and to
the second section of the act of 1875, said : "This indictment
does not contain all the words of the statute. This indictment
charges the defendant with having, on the 9th day of June,
1896, received and had in his possession these postage stamps
that were stolen from the United States at Highmore. Now,
if you should find beyond a reasonable doubt from all the
testimony in the case, in the first place, that the postage
stamps mentioned in the indictment or any of them were
stolen from the post office at Highmore by these parties who
it is alleged did steal them, and you further find beyond a
reasonable doubt that these postage stamps or any portion of
them were on the 9th day of June, 1896, received by the defendant from the thieves or their agent, knowing the same to have

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

been so stolen from the United States by these parties, with
the intent to convert the same to his own use and gain, or if
you find beyond a reasonable doubt that they were so stolen at
the Highmore post office, as I have stated, and that the defendant, on or about the 9th day-of June had them in his possession or any portion of them, knowing the same to have been
so stolen, with the intent to convert the same to his own use
and gain, and you will find all these facts beyond a reasonable
doubt, you would be authorized to return a verdict of guilty
as charged."
The jury returned a verdict of guilty against Kirby. The
exceptions taken by him at the trial were sufficient to raise
the questions that will presently be considered.
As shown by the above statement the charge against Kirby
was that on a named day he feloniously received and had in
his possession with intent to convert to his own use and gain
certain personal property of the United States, theretofore
feloniously stolen, taken and carried away by Wallace, Baxter
and King, who had been indicted and convicted of the 6ffence
alleged to have been committed by them.
Notwithstanding the conviction of Wallace, Baxter and
King, it was incumbent upon the Government, in order to
sustain its charge against Kirby, to establish beyond reasonable doubt (1) that the property described in the indictment
was in fact stolen from the United States; (2) that the defendant received or retained it in his possession, with intent
to convert it to his own use or gain; and (3) that he received
or retained it with knowledge that it had been stolen from the
United States.
How did the Government attempt to prove the essential
fact that the property was stolen from the United States? In
no other way than by the production of a record showing the
conviction under a separate indictment of Wallace, Baxter and
King-the judgments against Wallace and Baxter resting
wholly upon their respective pleas of guilty, while the judgment against King rested upon a trial and verdict-of guilty.
With the record of those convictions out of the present case,

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

there was no evidence whatever to show- that the property
alleged to have been received by Kirby was stolen from the
United States.
We are of the opinion that the trial court erred in admitting in evidence the record of the convictions of Wallace,
Baxter and King, and then in its charge saying that in the
absence of proof to the contrary, the fact that the property
was stolen from the United States was sufficiently established
against Kirby by the mere production of the record showing
the conviction of the principal felons. Where the statute makes
the conviction of the principal thief a condition precedent to the
trial and punishment of a receiver of the stolen property,
the record of the trial of the former would be evidence in
the prosecution against the receiver to show that the principal
felon had been convicted; for a fact of that nature could only
be established by a record. The record of the conviction of
the principals could not however be used to establish, against
the alleged receiver, charged with the commission of another
and substantive crime, the essential fact that the property
alleged to have been feloniously received by him was actually
stolen from the United States. Kirby was not present when
Wallace and Baxter confessed their crime by pleas of guilty,
nor when King was proved to be guilty by witnesses who
personally testified before the jury. Nqor was Kirby entitled
of right to participato in the trial of the principal felons. If
present at that trial he would not have been permitted to
examine Wallace and Baxter upon their pleas of guilty, nor
cross-examine the witnesses introduced against King, nor introduce witnesses to prove that they were not in fact guilty
of the offence charged against them. If he bad sought to do
either of those things -even upon the ground that the conviction of the principal felons might be taken as establishing
yrima facie a vital fact in the separate prosecution against
himself as the receiver of the property- the court would
have informed him that he was not being tried and could not
be permitted in anywise to interfere with the trial of the principal felons. And yet the court below instructed the jury
that the conviction of the principal felons upon an indictment

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

against theri alone was sufficient prima facie to show, as
against Kirby, indicted for another offence, the existence of
the fact that the property was stolen-a fact which, it is conceded, the United States was bound to establish beyond a
reasonable doubt in order to obtain a verdict of guilty against
him.
One of the fundamental guarantees of life and liberty is
found in the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which provides that "in all criminal prosecu.
.
be confronted with the wittions the accused shall
nesses against him." Instead of confronting Kirby with
witnesses to establish the vital fact that the property alleged
to have been received by him had been stolen from the
United States, he was confronted only with the record of
another criminal prosecution, with which he had no conn-ection and the evidence in which was not given in his presence.
The record showing the result of the trial of the principal
felons was undoubtedly evidence, as against them, in respect
of every fact essential to show their guilt. But a fact which
can be primarily established only by witnesses cannot be
proved against an accused - charged with a different offence
for which he may be convicted without reference to the
principal offender- except by witnesses who confront him
at the trial, upon whom he can look while being tried, whom
he is entitled to cross-examine, and whose testimony he
may impeach in every mode afithorized by the established
rules governing the trial or conduct of criminal cases. The
presumption of the innocence of an accused attends" him
throughout the trial and has relation to every fact that must
be established in order to prove his guilt beyond reasonable
doubt. "This presumption," this court has said, "is an
instrument of proof created by the law in favor of one
accused, whereby his innocence is established until sufficient
evidence is introduced to overcome the proof which the law
has created." Coffl 'v. United States, 156 U. S. 432, 459.
But that presumption in Kirby's case was in effect held in
the court below to be of no consequence; for, as to a vital
fact which the Government was bound to establish affirma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tively, he was put upon the defensive almost from the outset
of the trial by reason alone of what appeared to have been
8aid in another criminal prosecution with which he was not
connected and at which he was not entitled to be represented.
In other words, the Unitbd States having secured the conviction of Wallace, Baxter and King as principal felons, the
defendant charged by a separate indictment with a different
crime-that of receiving the property in question with
knowledge that it was so stolen and with intent to convert
it to his own ise or gain - was held to be presumptively or
.primafaieguilty so far as the vital fact of the property having been stolen was concerned, as soon as the Government produced the record of such conviction and without its making
any proof whatever by witnesses confronting the accused of
the existence of such vital fact. We cannot asgnt to this
view. We could not do so without conceding the power of
the legislature, when prescribing the effect as evidence of the
records and proceedings of *courts, to impair the very substance of a right long deemed so essential for the due protection of life and liberty that it is guarded against legislative
and judicial action by provisions in the Constitution of the
United States and in the constitutions of most if not of all
the States composing the Union.
This precise question has never been before this court, and
we are not aware of any adjudged case which is in all respects like the present one. But there are adjudications
which proceed upon grounds that point to the conclusion
reached by us.
A leading case is Rex v. Turner,, I foody's Crown Cases,
3417. In that case the prisoner was indicted for feloniously
receiving from one Sarah IRich certain goods and chattels
theretofore feloniously stolen by her from one Martha
Clarke. At the trial before Mr. Justice Patteson it was proposed to prove a confession of Sarah Rich, made before a
magistrate in the presence of the prisoner, in which she
stated various facts implicating the *prisoner and others as
well as herself. The evidence was not admitted, but the
court admitted other evidence of what Sarah Rich said

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

respecting herself only. The prisoner was convicted and
sentenced. The report of the case proceeds: "Raving since
learned that a case occurred before Mr. Baron Wood at York,
where two persons were indicted together, one for stealing
and the other for receiving, in which the principal pleaded
guilty and the receiver not guilty, and that Mr. Baron Wood
refused to allow the plea of guilty to establish the fact of the
stealing by the principal as against the receiver, the learned
judge thought it right to submit to the learned judges the
question, Whether he was right in admitting the confession
of Sarah Rich in the present case. The learned judge thought
it right to add that the prisoner, one Taylor, and Sarah Rich
had immediately before been tried upon an indictmerft for
burglary, and stealing other property in the house of Mrs.
Clarke on the night of the 22d of August; and that Taylor
and Rich had been found guilty, but the prisoner had been
acquitted, there being no proof of his presence. The learned
judge did not pass sentence upon Sarah Rich immediately;
but a new jury was called, and the prisoner was tried as a
receiver, so that either party might have called her as a
witness. In Easter term, 1832, all the judges (except Lord
Lyndhurst, C.B., and Taunton, J.) met, and having considered
this case, were unanimously of opinion that Sarah Rich's
confession was no evidence against the prisoner; and many
of them appeared to think that had Sarah Rich been convicted, and the indictment against the prisoner stated, not
her conviction, but her guilt, the conviction would not have
been any evidence of her guilt, which must have been proved
by other means; and the conviction was held wrong." In
a later case, Jreable v. Payne, 8 Ad. & Ell. 555, .560, which
was an action involving a question -as to the admission of
certain evidence, and was heard in the Queen's Bench before
Lord Denman, Chief Justice, and Littledale, Patteson
and Williams, Justices, Mr. Justice Patteson, referring to
Rex v. Turner, above cited, said: "On hn indictment for
receiving goods feloniously taken, the felony must be proved;
and neither a judgment against a felon, nor his admission,
would be evidence against the receiver. In such a. case I

OCTOBER TER-, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

once admitted evidence of a plea of guilty by the taker; and
it was held that I did wrong." A note in Starkie on Evidence p. 367, is to this effect: "In R. v. Turner, 1 Moo. 0.
C.34:7; 1R. v. Patelie,1 Lew. C.C.112; Keable v. Payne,
8 Ad. & E. 560, (35 E. C.L. R. 454,) it is stated that many
of the judges (all the judges except two being assembled)
were of opinion that the record of the conviction of the
principal would not be evidence of the fact, where the
indictment against the accessory alleged not the conviction
but the guilt of the principal. And on principle it would
seem to be evidence only when the indictment alleges the
conviction of the principal, and simply to support that allegation."
The leading American case on the question is Commonwealtl
v. Elis/a, 3 Gray, 460. The indictment was for receiving
stolen goods knowing them to have been stolen. The court,
speaking by Metcalf, J., said: "This indictment is against the
defendant alone, and charges him with having received property
stolen by Joseph Elisha and William Gigger, knowing it to have
been stolen. It is not averred, nor was it necessary to aver or
prove, (Rev. Sts. c. 126, § 24:,) that they had been convicted of
the theft. But it was necessary to prove their guilt, in order
to convict the defendant. Was the record of their conviction
on another indictment against them only, upon their several
pleas of guilty to a charge of stealing the property, legal evidence, against the defendant, that they did steal it? We think
not, either on principle or authority. That conviction was
res inter alios. The defendant was not a party to the proceedings, and had no opportunity nor right to be heard on the
trial. And it is an elementary principle of justice, that one
man shall not be affected by another's act or admission, to
which he is a stranger. That conviction being also on the
confession of the parties, the adjudged cases show that it is
not evidence against the defendant. Rex v. Turner, 1 Mood.
C.0. 34,7, and 1 Le.win's 0. 0. 119; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 233; Rosc.
Crim. Ev.(2d ed.) 50; The State v. Newport, 4 Harring. (Del.)
567. We express no opinion concerning a case differing in
any particular from this, but confine ourselves to the exact

RIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

question presented by these exceptions. Our decision is this,
and no more: The record of the conviction of a thief, on his
plea of guilty to an indictment against him alone for stealing
certain property, is not admissible in evidence to prove the
theft, on the trial of the receiver of that property, upon an
indictment against him alone, which does not aver that the
thief has been convicted."
To the same general effect are some of the text-writers.
Phillips, in his Treatise on the Law of Evidence, referring to
the rule as to the admissibility and effect of verdicts or judgments in prosecutions, says: "A record of conviction of a principal in felony has been admitted in some cases, not of modern
date, as evidence against the accessory. R. v. Smith, Leach Or.
0. 288; R. v. Baldwin, 3 Camp. 265. This has been supported
on the ground of convenience, because the witnesses against
the principal might be dead or not to be found, and on the
presumption that the proceedings must be taken to be regular,
and the guilt of the convicted party to be established. Fost.
Disc. iii. c. 2, s. 2, p. 364. But this is not strictly in accordance with the principle respecting the admissibility of verdicts
as evidence against third persons. From the report of the
recent case of Rex v. Turner, it seems that a record of conviction of a principal in the crime of stealing, who pleads guilty,
would not now be received as evidence of. the guilt of the
principal against the receivers of the stolen property, or the
accessory after the fact; and it is said to be doubtful, whether
a record of the conviction of the principal on his plea of not
guilty, would be admissible against the accessory. As proof
of the fact of conviction, the record would be admissible and
conclusive, but it seems not to be admissible evidence of the
guilt of the convict, as against another person charged with
being connected with him in crime, the record being in this
respect res inter aZios act. It is evidence that a certain person, named in the record, was convicted by the jury, but not
evidence as against a third person, supposed to have been
engaged with him in a particular transaction, as to the
ground on which the conviction proceeded, namely, that the
convict committed the criminal act described in the record."

OCTOBER. TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Phillips's Ev. 3d ed. pp. 22-3. Taylor in his Treatise on
Evidence, after stating that a prisoner is not liable to be affected by the confessions of his accomplices, says: "So strictly
has this rule been enforced, that where a person was indicted
for receiving stolen goods, a confession by. the principal that
he was guilty of the theft, was held by all the judges to be no
evidence of that fact as against the receiver (R. v. Turner);
and the decision, it seems, would lie the same, if both parties
were indicted together, and the principal were to plead guilty.
(Id.)" 1 Taylor's Ev. § 826, 6th ed.
The principle to be deduced from these authorities is in
harmony with the view that one accused of having received
stolen goods with intent to convert them to his own use,
knowing at the time that they were stolen, is not within
the meaning of the Constitution confronted with the witnesses against him when the fact that the goods-were stolen
is established simply by the record of another criminal case
with which the accused had no connection and in which he
was not entitled to be represented by counsel. As heretofore
stated the crime charged against Wallace, Baxter and King
and the crime charged against Kirby were wholly distinctnone the less so because in each case it was essential that the
Government should prove that the property described was
actually stolen. The record of the proof of a vital fact in
one prosecution could not be taken as proof in the other of
the existence of the same fact. The difficulty was not met
when the trial court failed as required by the act of 1875 to
instruct the jury that the record of the conviction of the
principal felons was conclusive evidence of the fact that the
property had been actually stolen, but merely said that such
record made a p'im facie case as to such fact. The fundamental error in the trial below -was to admit in evidence the
record of the conviction of the principal felons as competent
proof for any purpose. That those persons had been convicted was a fact not necessary to be established in the case
against the alleged receiver; for, under the statute, he could
be prosecuted even if the principal felons had not been tried
or indicted. As already stated, the effect of the charge was

KIRBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to enable the Government to put the accused, although
shielded by the presumption of innocence, upon the defensive as to a vital fact involved in the charge against him by
simply producing the record of the conviction of other parties
of a wholly different offence with which the accused had no
connection.
It is scarcely necessary to say that to the rule that an
accused is entitled to be confronted with witnesses against
him the admission of dying declarations is an exception which
arises from the necessity of the case. This exception was
well established before the adoption of the Constitution, and
was not intended to be abrogated. The ground upon which
such exception rests is that from the circumstances under
which dying declarations are made they are equivalent to
the evidence of a living witness upon oath--" the condition
of the party who made them being such that every motive to
falsehood must be supposed to have been silenced, and the
mind to be impelled by the most powerful considerations to
tell the truth." Clyde .Xattoxv. United States, 146 U. S. 140,
151; Cobley's Const. Lim. 318; 1 Phillips on Ev.c. 7,§ 6.
For the reasons stated it must be held that so much of the
above act of March 3, 1875, as declares that the judgment
of conviction against the principal felons shall be evidence in
the prosecution against the receiver that the property of the
United States alleged to have been embezzled, stolen or purloined had been embezzled, stolen or purloined, is in violation
of the clause of the Constitution of the United States declaring that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall be confronted with the witnesses against him. Upon this ground the
judgment must be reversed and a new trial had in accordance
with law. But as the case must go back to the Circuit Court
for another trial, it is proper to notice other questions presented by the assignments of error.
The accused contends that the indictment is -defective in
that it does not allege ownership by the United States of the
stolen articles of property at the time they were alleged to
have been feloniously received by him. This contention is
without merit. The indictment alleges that the articles

OCTOBER TERM , 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

described were the property of the United States when they
were feloniously stolen on the 7th day of June, 1896, and that
the defendant only two days thereafter, on the 9th day of
June, 1896, "the postage stamps aforesaid so as aforesaid
feloniously stolen, taken and carried away, feloniously did
receive and have in his possession, with intent then and there
to convert the same to his own use or gain, the said Joe Kirby
then and there well knowing the skid postage stamps to have
been theretofore feloniously stolen, taken and carried away."
The stamps alleged to have been feloniously received by the
accused on the 9th day of June are thus alleged to have been
the same that were stolen from the United States two days
previously. The larceny did not change the ownership, and it
must be taken that the United States had not regained possession of the stamps before they were received by Kirby, and
that the indictment charges that they were out of the possession of the United States and stolen property when they came
to the hands of the accused.
Another contention by the accused is that the indictment
was fatally defective in not stating from whom the defendant
received the stamps. This contention is apparently supported
by some adjudications, as in State v. Ives, 13 Iredell, 338.
But upon a careful reading of the opinion in that case it will
be found that the judgment rests upon the ground that the
statute of North Carolina, taken from an old English statute,
made the receiver of stolen goods strictly an accessory and
contemplated the case of the goods being received from the
person who stole them. As already stated the act of Congress
upon which the present indictment rests makes the receiving
of stolen property of the United States with the intent by the
receiver to convert it to his own use or gain, he knowing it to
have been stolen, a distinct, substantive felony, for which he
can be tried either before or after the conviction of the principal felon, or whether the latter is tried or not. Under such a
statute the person who stole the property might be pardoned,
and yet the receiver could be indicted and convicted of the
crime committed by him. Bishop in his New Criminal Procedure says that while some American cases have held it to be

KIRBY v. U NITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary in an indictment against the receiver of stolen goods
to state from whom he received the goods, "commonly, in
England and in numbers of our States, the indictment does
not aver from whom the stolen goods were received." Vol. 2,
§ 983. By an English statute, 7 & 8 Geo. IV, June 21, 1827,
c. 29, 54, it was enacted that "if any person shall receive
any chattel, money, valuable security or other property whatsoever, the stealing or taking whereof shall amount to a felony,
either at common law or by virtue of this act, such person
knowing the same to have been feloniously stolen or taken,
every such receiver shall be guilty of felony, and may be
indicted and convicted either as an accessory after the fact,
or for a substantive felony, and in the latter case, whether the
principal felon shall or shall not have been previously convicted, or shall or shall not be amenable to justice," etc.
Under that statute a receiver of stolen goods was indicted.
It was objected that one of the counts did not state the name
of the principal, or that he was unknown. Tindall, 0. J., said:
"It will do. The offence created by the act of Parliament is
not the receiving stolen goods from any particular person, but
receiving them knowing them to have been stolen. The
question therefore will be, whether the goods are stolen, and
whether the prisoner received them knowing them to have
been stolen. Your objection is founded on the too particular
form of the indictment. The statute makes the receiving of
goods, knowing them to have been stolen, the offence." Rex v.
ervis, 6 0. & P. 156; 2 Russell on Crimes, 6th ed. 436. In
State v. Razard, 2 R. I. 474, an indictment charging the
accused with fraudulently receiving stolen goods, knowing
them to have been stolen, was held to be good, although it
did not set forth the name of any person from Whom the.
goods were received, nor that they were received from some
person or persons unknown to the grand jurors. We therefore think that the objection that the indictment does not
show from whom the accused received the stamps, nor state
that the name of such person was unknown to the grand
jurors, is not well taken. If the stamps were in fact stolen
from the United States, and if they were received by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

accused,, no matter from whom, with the intent to convert
them to his own use or gain, and knowing that they had been
stolen from the United States, he could be found guilty of the
crime charged even if it were not shown by the evidence from
whom he received the stamps. This rule cannot work injustice
nor deprive the accused of any substantial right. If it appears
at the trial to be essential in the preparation of his defence
that he should know the name of the person from whom the
Government expected to prove that he received the stolen
property, it would be in the power of the court to require the
prosecution to give a bill of particulars. Coffn. v. United
States, 156 U. S. 432, 452; Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S.
29, 35 ; Commonwealth v. Giles, 1 Gray, 466; Rose. Crim. Ev.
6th ed. 178, 179, 420.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded with
directionsfor a new trial and for further proceedings
consistent with law.
MR. JUSTICE BRoww and

MR.

JUSTIcE

MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA dissented.

Bn.wER did not participate in the decision of

this case.

COSGROVE v. WINKEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.
No. 172. Submitted January 19, 1899.-Decided April ?4, 1899.

The appellant, a Canadian, was extradited from Canada under the extradition treaty between Great Britain and the United States, and, being
brought before a police court of Detroit was charged with larceny, gave
bail for his appearance at the trial, and returned to Canada. Returning
from Canada to Detroit voluntarily before the time fixed for trial, he
was arrested on a capias issued from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan before his extradition, charging him with an offence for which he was not extraditable, and was
taken into custody by the marshal of that district. He applied to the
District Court of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus which

