INORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. FREEMAN.

379

Syllabus.

marred or changed in value, and the sum of the injury results
only from the fact that he could not remove it to a suitable
market. The property, in itself considered, was neither taken,
damaged nor destroyed. The only result was that his ability
to make use of that value was taken away because his means
of transportation were destroyed. The damages were, therefore, consequential, and not to the property itself. We do not
perceive how, under the statute, the liability of the Government was enlarged by this fact.

The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, NR. JUSTICE PECKHAMi
MoKENNA dissented.

and MR.

JUSTICE

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FREEMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 241. Argued and submitted April 18, 1899.- Decided May 15,1899.
A highway in the State of Washington crossed the Northern Pacific Railroad at about right angles. It approached the railroad through a deep
descending cut, and the track was not visible to one driving down until he
had reached a point about forty feet from it. Freeman was driving a pair
of horses in a farm wagon down this descent. When he emerged from
the cut and reached the point from which an approaching train was visible he was looking ahead at his horses. A train was coming up. The conductor, the engineer and the fireman testified that the whistle was blown.
Three witnesses, who were not in the employ of the railroad, and who
were in a position to have heard a whistle if it had been blown, testified
that they did not hear it. When Freeman became conscious of the approaching train he tried to avoid it; but it was too late, and he was
struck by the train and was killed. So far as there was any oral testimony on the subject, it tended to show that Freeman neither stopped,
looked nor listened before attempting to cross the track. Held, That
the testimony tending to show contributory negligence on the part of
Freeman was conclusive, and that nothing remained for the jury, and
that the company was entitled to an instruction to return a verdict in its
favor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Tmis was an action by the widow and minor children of
Thomas A. Freeman, originally brought in the Circuit Court
for the District of Washington against the receiver of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and subsequently, after
the discharge of the receiver, continued against the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, purchaser at the foreclosure sale,
which, by virtue of the provisions of the decree of sale, had
assumed the liabilities of the receiver. The object of the
action was to recover damages on account of the death of
Thomas A. Freeman, which was alleged to have occurred by
reason of the negligence of the company.
The accident occurred at a highway crossing near the eastern
corporate limits of the town of Elma, in the county of Chehalis, in the State of Washington, at a point where the highway
crosses the railway track nearly at right angles.
Upon the trial, counsel for the railway company asked the
court to instruct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant,
upon the ground that the undisputed testimony showed that
the deceased, as he approached the railway crossing did not
look up or down the track, and did not see the train which
was approaching in full view, and therefore was guilty of such
contributory negligence as to preclude the plaintiffs from recovering damages. This the court refused, but left the case
to the jury undet the following instruction, to which exception was taken: "Where a party cannot see the approach of a
train on account of intervening objects, he may rely upon his
ears, and whether he should have stopped and listened under
the circumstances is for you to say; and if you believe from
the evidence that deceased, Thomas A. Freeman, acted as a
man of ordinary care and prudence would have done as he
approached the crossing, then your verdict should be for the
plaintiffs, in case -you find that the defendants were negligent
and that the collision was due to their negligence."
Counsel further excepted to the following instruction:
"There has been some testimony tending to show that the deceased might have seen the approaching train some feet before
he reached the track. If you believe that the deceased could
have seen the approaching train when he was within a few

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. FREEMAN.

-381

Opinion of the Court.

feet of the track, then it is for you to say, under all the circumstances, whether he used reasonable precaution and care
to avoid the collision."
Exception was also taken to an instruction to the jury upon
the subject of damages, which does not become material here.
Plaintiffs recovered a verdict, upon which judgment was
entered for $9000. The judgment was affirmed on writ of
error by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
one judge dissenting. 48 U. S. App. 757.
.Mr. C. *W Bunn for plaintiffs in error.
.Xr. Santon Warburton for defendant in error submitted or
his brief, on which were also MAi. J. B. Bridges,' -r. 0. V.
Zinn and -'.
idney .MoorB'eath.
MR. JUSTiCE BRowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
There was testimony from several witnesses in the neighborhood tending to show that no whistle 'was blown by the
engineer as the train approached the crossing. There was
also the testimony of the conductor, engineer and fireman
that the whistle was blown. As the majority of plaintiffs'
witnesses were so located that they would probably have
heard the whistle if it had been blown, there was a conflict
of testimony with respect to defendants' negligence, which
was properly left to the jury.
The real question in the case was as to the contributory
negligence of plaintiffs' intestate. For several hundred feet
on either side of the highway crossing there was a cat of
about eight feet below the surface of the surrounding country,
through which the railway ran. The highway approached
the crossing by a gradual decline, the length of which was
from 130 to 150 feet. Along the greater portion of this distance the view of a train approaching, either from the north
or the south, was cut off by the banks of the excavation on
either side of the highway; but at a distance of about forty

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

feet before reaching the track the ioad emerged from the
cut, and the view up the track for about 300 feet was unobstructed.
At the time of the accident, Freeman was driving along
the highway, going eastward from the towi of Elma in a
farm wagon drawn by two horses at a slow trot. -He was a
man thirty years of age, with no defect of eyesight or hearing, and was familiar with the crossing, having frequently
driven the same team over it. The horses were gentle and
were accustomed to the cars.
The duty of a person approaching a railway crossing,
whether driving or on foot, to look and listen before crossing the track, is so elementary and has been affirmed so many
times by this court, that a mere reference to the cases of Rail-road Company v. Houston, 95 U. S. 697, and Schoj le v. Chicago & St. Paul Railway Co., 114 U. S. 615, is a sufficient
illustration of the general rule.
There were but three witnesses to the accident. Two of
these were women who were walking down the highway, and
approaching the crossing" on the opposite side, facing the
team. At the time the deceased was struck by the train,
they .were from 200 to 250 feet away. They testified -that
the horses Were coming down at a slow trot, not faster than a
brisk walk, and that their speed was uniform up to the time
of the accident; that the deceased looked straight before him,
without turning his head either way; that the team did not
swerve but trotted directly on to the crossing, and that the
deceased made no motion to stop until just as the engine
struck him., The other witness was a little girl, ten years of
age, who was standing on the hill on the opposite side of the
track, near the point where the descent of the highway into
the cut began, and was consequently from 130 to 150 feet
from the railway track. The deceased passed her and two
other young children who were with her. She testified that
as he passed his head was down, and he was looking at his
horses; that "they went down aways, and then they run and
flew back; " that they were going at a slow trot; that when
Freeman saw the train he tried to pull the horses around, as

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. FREEMAN.

383

Opinion of the Court.

if he were trying to get out of the way, when the train struck
them.
Another witness was driving behind the team, but he testified to nothing which bore upon the material question whether
the deceased took any precaution before crossing the track.
So far, then, as there was any oral testimony upon the subject, it tended to show that the deceased neither stopped,
looked nor listened before crossing the track, and there was
nothing to contradict it. Assuming, however, that these witnesses, though uncontradicted, might have been mistaken,
and that the jury were at liberty to disregard their testimony
and to find that he did comply with the law in this particular,
we are confronted by a still more serious difficulty in the fact
that if he had looked and listened he would certainly have
seen the engine in time to stop and avoid a collision. He was
a young man. His eyesight and hearing were perfectly good.
He was acquainted with the crossing, with the general character of the country, and with the depth of the excavation made
by the highway and the railway. The testimony is practically
uncontradicted that for a distance of forty feet from the railway track he could have seen the train approaching at a distance of about 300 feet, and as the train was a freight train,
going at a speed not exceeding twenty miles an hour, he
would have had no difficulty in avoiding it. When it appears
that if proper precautions were taken they could not have
failed to prove effectual, the court has no right to assume,
especially in face of all the oral testimony, that such precautions were taken. The comments of Mr. Justice Field in
Railroad Company v. .ousto&, 95 U. S. 697, 702, are pertinent in this connection: "Negligence of the company's employ~s in these particulars" (failure to whistle or ring the
bell) "was no excuse for negligence on her part. She was
bound to listen and to look, before attempting to cross the
railroad track, in order to avoid an approaching train, and
not to walk carelessly into the place of possible danger. Had
she used her senses, she could not have failed both to hear
and to see the train which was coming. If she omitted to use
them, ad w4lke4d thoughtlessly upon the trck she was guilty

'384

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of culpable negligence, and so far contributed to her injuries
as to deprive her. of any right to complain of others. If, using
them, she saw the train coining and yet undertook to cross
the track, instead of waiting for the train to pass, and was injured, the consequences of her mistake and temerity cannot
be cast upon the defendant."
If, in this case, we were to discard the evidence of the three
witnesses entirely, there would still remain the facts that the
deceased approached a railway crossing well known to him;
that the train was in full view; that, if he had used his senses,
he could not have failed to see it; and that, notwithstanding this, the accident occurred. Judging from the common
experience of men, there can be but one plausible solution of
the problem how the collision occurred. He did not look; or
if he looked, he did not heed the warning, and took the
chance of crossing the track before the train could reach him.
In either case he was clearly guilty of contributory negligence.

The cases in this court relied upon by the plaintiffs are all
readily distinguishable, either by reason of the proximity of
obstructions interfering with the view of approaching trains,
confusion caused by trains approaching simultaneously from
opposite directions or other peculiar circumstances tending to
mislead the injured party as to the existence of danger in crossing -the track.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the testimony tending to show contributory negligence on the part of the deceased was so conclusive that nothing remained for the jury,
and that the defendant was entitled to an instruction to return
a verdict in its favor. The disposition we have made of this
question renders it unnecessary to express an opinion upon the
instruction as to damages.
The judgment of the court below must therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court for the
District of Washington, with directions to grant a new
trial.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

and Mit. JusTicE, HARL

dissented.

