PRICE v. UNITED STATES AND OSAGE INDIANTS. 373
Statement of the Case.

which the registered shareholders acquired their respective
shares.
The force of this objection is not apparent. It is doubtless
within the scope of the Comptroller's duty, when iiformed by
the reports of the bank that such an investment has been
made, to direct that it be at once disposed of, but the Comptroller's act in ordering an assessment, while conclusive as to
the necessity for making it, involves no judgment by him as
to the judicial rights of parties to be affected. While he, of
course, assumes that there are stockholders to respbnd to his
order, it is not his function to inquire or determine what, if
any, stockholders are exempted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and
the cause is remanded to that court with directions to
enter a judgment in confomity with this opinion. •

PRICE v. UNITED STATES AND OSAGE INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS,
No. 247. Argued April 19,1899. -Dectded May 15,1899.
Under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, giving the Court of Claims jurisdicition over claims for property of citizens of the United States taken or
destroyed by Indians no jurisdiction is given to the court over a claim
for merely consequential damages resulting to the owner of property so
taken by reason of the taking but not directly caused by the Indians.

Tnis case came on appeal from the Court of Claims. The
matter of dispute is disclosed by the second aeclfourth findings
of the court, which are as follc~vs: Second. "On the 26th day of June, 1847, near the Arkansas
River, on the route from western Missouri to Santa F6, at a
place in what is now the State of Kansas, Indians belonging to
the Osage tribe took and drove away 32 bead of oxen, the
property of said decedent, which at the time and place of tak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ing were reasonably worth the sum of four hundred dollars
($400).
"At the time said oxen were taken they were being used by
said decedent in the transportation of goods along the route
aforesaid, and in consequence of such taking decedent was
compelJed to abandon the trip and to sell his portion of said
goods and four (4) wagons belonging to him for the sum of
one thousand two hundred dollars ($1200).
"The goods and wagons of said decedent at the time of the
depredation were reasonably worth the sum of seven thousand
six hundred dollars ($7600).
"Said property was taken as aforesaid without just cause or
provocation on the part of the owner or his agent in charge
and has not been returned or paid for."
Fourth. "A claim for the property so taken was presented
to the Interior Department in June, 1872, and evidence was
filed in support thereof."
Judgment in that court was entered for $400, (33 0. Cl.106,)
to review which judgment the petitioner appealed.
-Mr. John Good- for appellant. .Mr. F. N. Judson was on
his brief.
SMr. F'rank B. Crosthwaite for appellees. Mr. Amietant
Attorney General Thompson was on his brief.
MR. JusTIcE BREwnn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The fourth finding simply shows that a claim was presented
to the Interior Department and evidence filed in support
thereof. The petition alleges not merely the fact of the presentation of the claim and of the filing of evidence to sustain
it, but also an award by the Secretary of the amount of $6800,
a sum covering both the value of the property taken by the
Indians and the conseqlfential damages resulting therefrom.
A.demurrer by the defendants having been overruled, a traverse was filed, denying all the allegations of the petition.

PRICE ?. UNITED STATES AND OSAGt INDL4INS.

375

Opinion of the Court.

Taking the pleadings with the findings we might justly assume
that there had never been any award by the Secretary of the
Interior, but only a presentation of a claim and evidence in
support thereof; but we notice that the Court of Claims
speaks of the award as though it was a fact found. We feel,
therefore, constrained to consider the case on that basis.
The conclusions of the Secretary, both as to liability and
amount, were placed before the court for consideration by the
election of the defendants to reopen the case. This election
opened the whole case. Leighton v. United Statem, 161 U. S.
291.
The liability of the defendants is not disputed. The single
,question presented is as to the amount which may be recovered.
The value of the property taken Was awarded, and the only
question is whether the plaintiff was entitled, not merely to the
value of that property, but also to the damages to -other property which resulted as a consequence of the taking. The property which was not taken or destroyed, which remained in the
possession of the plaintiff's intestate, which he could do with
as he pleased, the title and possession of which wefe not disturbed, was, as the findings show, reasonably worth $7600.
Because out in the unoccupied territory in which the taking of
the oxen took place there was no market, and because he had
no means of transporting the property not taken to a convenient market, he was subject to the whim or caprice of a passing,
traveller, and sold it to him for $1200. The loss thereby entailed upon him he claims to recover under the provisions of
the statute of Mtarch 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851.
The right of the plaintiff to recover is a purely statutory
right. The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims cannot .be
enlarged by implication. It matters.not what may seem to
this court equitable, or what obligation we may deem ought
to be assumed by the Government, or the Indian tribe, whose
members were guilty of this depredation, we cannot go beyond
the language of the statute and impose a liability which the
Government has not declared its willingness to assume. It is
useless to cite all the authorities, for they are many, upon the
proposition. It is an axiom of our jurisprudence. The Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ernment is not liable to suit unless it consents thereto, and its
liability in suit cannot be extended beyond the plain language
of the statute authorizing it. See, among other cases, Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163, 166, in which this court
said: "The United States cannot be sued in their courts without thbir consent, and in granting such consent Congress has an
absolute discretion to specify the cases and contingencies in
which the liability of the government is submitted to the
courts for judicial determination. Beyond the letter of
such consent the courts may not go, no matter how beneficial they may deem or in fact might be their possession of a
larger jurisdiction over the liabilities of the government."
Now the jurisdiction given by the act of 1891 to the Court
of Claims is over "all claims for property of citizens of the
United States taken or destroyed by Indians," etc. So far as
any property was taken or destroyed by the Indians the judgment of the Court of Claims awards full compensation therefor, and no question is made as to the judgment in that respect.
The single contention of the plaintiff is that because of the
taking of certain property the value of other property not
taken or destroyed was, under the conditions surrounding the
p.etitioner and such property, diminished. This diminution in
value did not arise because of any change in its quality or condition, but simply because the petitioner left in possession of
that property was, in consequence of the taking away of the
means of transportation, unable to carry it to a place where its
full value could be realized. In other words, the damages
which he thus claims do not consist in the value of property
taken or destroyed, but are those which flow in consequence
of the taking to property which is neither taken nor destroyed.
In brief, he asks consequential damages. Now, as we have
said, we are not at liberty to consider whether there may not
be some equitable claim against the Government or the Indians
for such consequential damages. We are limited to the statutory description of the obligations which the Government is
willing to assume and which it has submitted to the Court of
Claims for determination. We may not enter into the wide
question of how far an individual taking or destroying prop-

PRICE v. UNITED STATES AND OSAGE INDIANS. 377
Opinion of the Court

erty belonging to another. may be liable for all the damages
which are consequential upon such injury or destruction. If
Congress had seen fit to open the doors of the court to an
inquiry into these matters doubtless many questions of difficulty might arise, but as it has only declared its willingness
to subject the Government to liability for property taken or
destroyed we may not go beyond that and adjudge a liability
not based upon the taking or destruction of property, but
resulting from the destruction or taking of certain property
to other property not taken or destroyed. Questions, such
as arose in Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166, as to the
scope of constitutional limitations upon the right to take property without full compensation, are not pertinent to the present
inquiry; for while if the court had free hand and could adjudge
a liability upon the Government commensurate to the wrong
done, one conclusion might follow therefrom; yet we are
limited by the other fact that the liability of the Government to suit is a matter resting in its discretion, and cannot
be enlarged beyond the terms of the act permitting it. Consequential damages to property not taken or destroyed are not
within the scope of the act authorizing recovery for damages
to property taken or destroyed.
We have thus far considered the case as though it were one
de novo and in no way affected by prior proceedings in the Interior Department. As heretofore indicated, notwithstanding
the limited scope of the findings, we think we ought in view
of the opinion of the Court of Claims to consider the case in
the attitude of one for which an award had been made by the
Secretary of the Interior; that award including not merely
damages for the property taken and destroyed but also what,
as we have shown, were merely consequential damages. Here
we are met by the contention of the plaintiff that larger jurisdiction is given to the Court of Claims in respect to matters
thus determined by the Secretary of the Interior. Beyond
the general jurisdiction given to the extent heretofore indicated by the quotation from the statute is this, expressed in
the subsequent part of the same section:
"Second. Such jurisdiction shall also extend to all cases

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

which hare beeu examined and allowed by the Interior
Department and also to such cases as were authorized to be
examined under the act of Congress making appropriations
for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various
Indian tribes for the year ending June thirtieth, eighteen
hundred and eighty-six, and for other purposes, approved
Mlarch third, eighteen hundred and eighty-five, and under
subsequent acts, subject, however, to the limitations hereinafter provided."
It is contended that in cases coming under this clause the
Court of Claims may award all damages which the Secretary
of the Interior has or might have given to the petitioner.
Conceding for the purpose of the argument that this contention is justified, we cannot see that therefrom any new
measure of liability is established, or, at least, none that
will avail this petitioner. The act of March 3, 1885, c.
811, 23 Stat., 376, which provided for the investigation by
the Interior Department of claims on account of Indian
depredations, and under which it is alleged that the Secretary acted in making his award, authorized the Secretary
"to determine the kind and value of all property damaged
or destroyed, by reason of the depredations aforesaid."
The contention is that the terms "damaged" or "Idestroyed"
enlarge the scope of the liability assumed by the Government.. We are unable to perceive that this is of any significance in .this case. The property left in the possession
of the petitioner was neither damaged nor, destroyed by the
action of the Indians in taking away the other property.
Its inherent intrinsic value was in no manner disturbed.
The damages were not to the property, considered as property, but simply consequential from the wrong done, and
consisted solely in the fact that the petitioner, wronged by
the taking away of certain property, was unable to realize
tie real value of property not taken, damaged or destroyed.
Nothing was done by the Indians to disturb the intrinsic value
of the property left in possession of the petitioner. It remained
his- with full right of control and disposition, in no manner

INORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. FREEMAN.

379

Syllabus.

marred or changed in value, and the sum of the injury results
only from the fact that he could not remove it to a suitable
market. The property, in itself considered, was neither taken,
damaged nor destroyed. The only result was that his ability
to make use of that value was taken away because his means
of transportation were destroyed. The damages were, therefore, consequential, and not to the property itself. We do not
perceive how, under the statute, the liability of the Government was enlarged by this fact.

The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, NR. JUSTICE PECKHAMi
MoKENNA dissented.

and MR.

JUSTICE

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FREEMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 241. Argued and submitted April 18, 1899.- Decided May 15,1899.
A highway in the State of Washington crossed the Northern Pacific Railroad at about right angles. It approached the railroad through a deep
descending cut, and the track was not visible to one driving down until he
had reached a point about forty feet from it. Freeman was driving a pair
of horses in a farm wagon down this descent. When he emerged from
the cut and reached the point from which an approaching train was visible he was looking ahead at his horses. A train was coming up. The conductor, the engineer and the fireman testified that the whistle was blown.
Three witnesses, who were not in the employ of the railroad, and who
were in a position to have heard a whistle if it had been blown, testified
that they did not hear it. When Freeman became conscious of the approaching train he tried to avoid it; but it was too late, and he was
struck by the train and was killed. So far as there was any oral testimony on the subject, it tended to show that Freeman neither stopped,
looked nor listened before attempting to cross the track. Held, That
the testimony tending to show contributory negligence on the part of
Freeman was conclusive, and that nothing remained for the jury, and
that the company was entitled to an instruction to return a verdict in its
favor.

