OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

LOUISVILLE v. CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK.
CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. STONE, Auditor.
APPEALS

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF, THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 865, 405. Argued February 28, March 2,1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

Third NationalBank of Louisville v. Stone, Auditor, ante, 432, and Louisville
v. Third National Bank, ante, 435, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Henry i. Stone for Louisville.
.r. Alexander Pope HYumphrey, 21r. Frank Chinn, 21.
James P. Helm and AU. John F Rodman for the bank.
MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The Citizens' National Bank was organized on the 8th day
of August, 1874, its charter being stipulated to endure for a
period of twenty years. On April 1, 1894, the charter was
renewed and extended for twenty years. The bank in these
two cases filed its bills to enjoin the collection of certain taxes
on the ground that by the effect of a statute of the State of
Kentucky, usually referred to as the Hewitt Act, an irrevocable contract had been entered into between the State and the
bank, from which it resulted that the taxes complained of
could not be levied without impairing the obligations of such
contract. It was moreover averred that the existence of this
contract had been judicially determined in a suit between the
Third National Bank and the city of Louisville, to which suit
the Citizens' National Bank, although not a party, was a privy
because of certain agreements alleged to have been made between the city of Louisville and the bank at the time the suit
was brought by the Third National Bank. In consequence
of this fact it was alleged that the existence of the contract
between the Citizens' National Bank and the State had been

LOUISVILLE v. CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK.

437

Opinion of the Court.

judicially determined, and the decree to that effect was
pleaded as re judicata. In addition, the taxes in question
were alleged to be illegal, because imposed upon the franchise and property of the bank, and because they were discriminatory, and they were averred besides to be illegal under
the state constitution and laws. The lower court held that
the plea of res judicata established an irrevocable contract
as to the taxes for years prior to the date of the extended
charter, but that the thing adjudged did not conclude that
there was an irrevocable contract as to taxes imposed after
the date of the extension of the charter, because such taxes
were not and could not have been in controversy in the cause
in which the prior judgment had been rendered. Upon these
grounds, in the second case, that is No. 405, it decided that
the complainant was without right to relief, and in the first
case, No. 365, that it was entitled- to the relief sought.
These two cases are in all material respects identical ivith
the cases'of The Third lVational Bank of Louisville v. Samuel
Ht. Stone, Auditor of Public Accounts, et al., ante, 432; and
City of Louisville v. The Third National Bank, ante, 435,
which have been just decided. For the reasons given in the
decisions rendered in those cases, it is ordered that the decree
below rendered in No. 365 be, and the same is hereby, affirnied, and that rendered in No. 405 be, and the same is
hereby, reversed, and that the last-mentioned case (viz., No.
405) be remanded to the court below with directions to take
such further proceedings as may be in conformity to this opinion, and it is
So ordered.

