OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

SPURR v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAlS FOR THE SIXTH
-CIRCUIT.
No.448. Argued March 18, 14,1899. -Decided May 22,1899.

Spurr was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle
District of Tennessee on three indictments, consolidated together, each
of which charged him with having wilfully violated the provisions of
Rev. Stat. § -5208, by wilfully, unlawfully and knowingly certifying
certain cheques drawn on said bank by Dobbins and Dazey, well knowing that Dobbins and Dazey did not have on deposit with the bank at the
times when the cheques were certified, respectively, an amount of money
equal to the respective amounts specified therein. It was not denied
that the defendant certified the cheques, and that the account of Dobbins and Dazey was overdrawn when the certifications took place. The
questions for determination were defendant's knowledge of the state of
Dobbins and Dazey's account when the cheques were certified and his intent in the certifications. After the case had been committed to the
jury, and they had had it under consideration for some hours, they re-turned to the court room, and asked the following question, which was
written out: "1We want the law as to the certification of cheques, when
no money appeared to the credit of the drawer." The court read to the
jury the first half of Rev. Stat. § 5208, as follows: ,"It shall.be unlawful for any officer, clerk or agent of any national banking association to
certify any cheque drawn upon the association unless the person or company drawing the cheque has on deposit with the association, at the time
such cheque is certified, an amount of money equal to the amount specified in such cheque." The court then inquired: "Does this answer
-your question?" To which the foreman replied: 1 Yes, sir." The court
again read that part of the section, and made certain observations;
among others that a false certification was " the certifying by an officer
of the bank that a cheque is good when there are no funds to meet it."
As the jury were retiring, counsel for defendant said to the court that
he thought what the jury wanted was the act of '1882 which the court
had read to them, and that the court ought to read and explain that act
to the jury. That act provided that an officer, clerk or agent of a na-.
tional bank wilfully violating the provisions of Rev. Stat. *§5208, etc.,
"should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and should, on conviction,"
"be fined," etc. The court, after asking if the counsel referred to the
act prescribing a penalty for false certification, and receiving an answer
in the affirmative, said that the jury had nothing to do with that. Held,
that the Circuit Court clearly erred in declining the request of counseli
in respect of the act of 1882.

SPURR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Spuim was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Tennessee on three indictments,
each containing several counts, for the violation of section
5208 of the Revised Statutes, which provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any officer, clerk or agent of any
national banking association to certify any cheque drawn upon
the association unless the person or company drawing the
cheque has on deposit with the association, at the time such
cheque is certified, an amount of money equal to the amount
specified in such cheque. Any cheque so certified by duly
authorized officers shall be a good and valid obligation against
the association; but the act of any officer, clerk or agent of
any association, in violation of this section, shall subject such
bank to the liabilities and proceedings on the part of the
Comptroller as provided for in section fifty-tWo hundred alad
thirty-four."
By section 13 of the act of Congress approved-July 12,1882,
c. 290, 22 Stat. 162, it is provided:
"That any officer, clerk or agent of any national banking
association who shall wilfully violate the provisions of an act
entitled IAn act in reference to certifying cheques by national
banks,' approved March third, eighteen hundred and sixtynine, being section fifty-two hundred and eight of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, or who shall resort to any device, or receive any fictitious obligation, direct or collateral,
in order to evade the provisions thereof, or who shall certify
cheques-before the amount thereof shall have been regularly
entered to the credit of the dealer upon the books of the banking association, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall, on conviction thereof in any Circuit or District Court
of the United States, be fined not more than five thousand
dollars, or shall be imprisoned not more than five years, or
both, in the discretion of the court."
The indictments charged that Spurr, being the president of
the Commercial National Bank of Nashville, Tennessee, 'wilfully violated the provisions of section 5208 of the Revised
Statutes by wilfully, unlawfully and knowingly certifying certain cheques drawn on said bank by Dobbins and Dazey, well

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

knowing that Dobbins and Dazey did not have on deposit with
the bank at the times when the cheques were certified, respee
tively, an amount of money equal to the respective amounts
specified therein. They were consolidated and tried together,
and a verdict of guilty returned as follows: "Came the United
States attorney, and also the defendant in proper person, and
came also the jury heretofore impanelled, and upon their
oaths do say that they find the defendant guilty as charged in
the indictment and recommend him to the mercy of the court."
Motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment were made
and overruled, and judgment entered on the verdict in these
words:
"And thereupon, the United States, by its District Attorney,
moved the court for sentence upon the verdict of the jury
heretofore rendered, upon count No. 2 of indictment No. 7994,
count No. 2 of indictment No. 8139, counts Nos. 1 and 4 of indictment No. 7994, count No. 3 of indictment No. 8139, count
No. 2 of indictment 8078 and count N o. 5 of indictment No.
8139. The defendant was thereupon called upon by the court
to stand and was asked by the court if he had anything further to say why the sentence of the law should not be pronounced against him, and he replied that he had nothing further to say than he had already said; and the court, being cogrnizant of the facts attending said verdict and of the manner in
which the issues found by said verdict were submitted to the
jury, finds and so orders and adjudges that said verdict is applicable to indictment No. 7994, counts I and 4, and indictment No. 8139, count 3, all of which are.based upon a cheque
certified by the defendant, dated January 3, 1893, and upon
said verdict upon said counts of said indictments, the court
orders and adjudges that the defendant be confined to the
penitentiary of the State of New York, at Albany, New York,
for two Years and six months from this date."
The several counts of the consolidated indictments charged
the certification by defendant of four cheques drawn by Dobbins and Dazey between December 9, 1892, and February 13,
,1893, both inclusive, on the Commercial National Bank, aggregating $95,641.95. The bank was organized in 1884, and

SPURR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

defendant was its president and one Porterfield its cashier
from its organization to its failure, 'March 25, 1893. Dobbins
and Dazey were engaged in the purchase, sale and exportation
of cotton, and their financial standing and credit were excellent. When the four cheques in question were certified by
defendant the accounts of Dobbins and Dazby were overdrawn, and the evidence was that their account was continuously and largely overdrawn during the period covered by
these cheques, except on one day, and that "this fact was
known to Porterfield, the cashier, and all the employ~s of- the
bank under him in authority." But "there was also evidence
tending to show that Porterfield misrepresented the real state
of the Dobbins and Dazey account to the defendant and the
committees and the directors of the bank, by statements made
to them, and also in his sworn reports to the Comptroller of
the Currency, wherein the overdrafts in the bank were very
largely understated." There -was also evidence on behalf of
defendant to the effect "that he had no knowledge of the fact
that the account of Dobbins and Dazey was overdrawn on the
books of the bank at the time of the certification of any of
the cheques upon which he is indicted, nor at any time during
the period covered by the dates of the cheques;" that when
he certified these cheques he inquired in every instance either
of the cashier, or of the exchange clerk, and in every ilistance
received information that sufficient funds and credits of Dobbins and Dazey were then in the bank to cover the. cheques
certified, and that he never at any time certified a cheque
without receiving such information, and that he relied upon it
as true; that if the cashier was in, he inquired of him; if not,
he inquired of the exchange clerk; these being the appropriate sources of information. The evidence on this head is
given in much detail in the bill of exceptions.
The bill of exceptions also stated "After the jury were charged and had retired from the
court room to consider their verdict, and had been deliberating for some hours, they returned to the court room and asked
the following question, which was written out in pencil and
handed to the court:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"'We want the law as to the certification of cheques when
no money appeared to the credit of the drawer.'
"The court then said: ' The jury state that they want the
law as to the certification of a cheque where there is no
money to the credit of the drawer.
"' I cannot bdtter answer this question which the jury has
put to the court, than by reading the section of the Revised
Statutes which relates to that subject.'
• "(Reads from sec. 5208, Rev. Stat.:) ' It shall be unlawful
for any officer, clerk or agent of any national banking association to certify any cheque drawn upon the association unless
the person or company drawing the cheque has on deposit with
the association, at the time such cheque is certified, an amount
of money equal to the amount specified in such pheque.'
"' Does this answer your question?'
"FoRmAN OF THE JURY: I Yes, sir.'
"THE COURT: 'I read it again so that you may all under-

stand it.' (The court read again that part of section 5208, Rev.
Stat., quoted above, and added:)
"'Is that all, gentlemen? The $30,000 was the credit
allowed, and these overdrafts, as the court understands from
the testimony in the case, were in excess of that. The account
of Dobbins and Dazey-the overdrafts-were in excess of
the amount which Dobbins and Dazey had as a limit of line
of credit.
"'I charge you in addition to the instructions I gave you
this morning, that a cheque drawn upon a bank, where the
drawer has no funds, creates no obligation against the bank,
and it does not create any obligation until it is certified as
good by an officer of the bank, and that makes the cheque
good as to the holder of it, and the bank then becomes
estopped, although there was no warrant for the drawing of
the cheque, as against the bon& ftde holder. So that the
obligation of the bank to meet it in such case is made so
by the act of the officer who certifies it to be good. That is
what is meant by false certification. It is the certifying by
an officer of a.bank that a cheque is good when there are no
funds there to meet it.

SPURR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

"'You understand what I have said now is to be taken in
connection with what I have before instructed you.'
"As the jury were retiring, counsel for defendant said to
the court that he thought what the jury wanted was the act
of 1882 making it a misdemeanor to wilfully violate the section of the IRevised Statutes which the court had read to
them, and that the court ought to read and explain that act
to the jury; the court asked if counsel referred to the act
prescribing the penalty for false certification, and on being
answered in the affirmative, stated that the jury had nothing
to do with that.
"To this action of the court in reading twice section 5208
of the Revised Statutes and ih failing to read and explain the
act of 1882, in response to the jury's question, and to the
additional instructions given to the jury at this time beginning with the words 'The $30,000' and ending with the
words ' to meet it,' the defendant then and there excepted."
Sentence having been pronounced as before stated, the case
was taken on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit, and the judgment was affirmed, 59 U. S.
App. 663, whereupon the cause was brought to this court
on certiorari.
Mr. John A. Pitts and XM. Albert H. Horton for Spurr.
-Mr. Bailey P. Waggener was on their brief.
.Mr. Edward Baxter for the United States.
MR. CiEi.F JusoiE Fu.LE,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It was not denied that defendant certified the cheques, and
that the account of Dobbins and Dazey was overdrawn when
the certifications took place. The questions for determination were defendant's kinowledge of the state -of Dobbins
and Dazey's account when the cheques were certified and
his intent in the certifications.
Section 5208 made it unlawful for any officer, clerk or agent

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of any national banking association to certify any cheque
drawn upon it, unless the drawer of the check had on deposit
at the time such cheque was certified an amount of money
equal to the amount specified therein, and provided the consequences which should follow on a violation of the section.
Then came section 13 of the act of July 12, 1882, which made
a wilful violation of section 5208 criminal, and denounced a
penalty thereon.
These sections were under consideration in Potterv. United
States, 155 U. S. 438, 445, and the court said:
"The charge is of a wilful violation. That is the language
of the statute. Section 5208 of the Revised Statutes makes
it unlawful for any officer of a national bank to certify a
cheque unless the drawer has on deposit at the time an equal
amount of money. But this section carries with it no penalty
against the wrongdoing .officer. Section 13 of the act of 1882
imposes the penalty, and imposes it upon one ' who shall wilfully violate,' etc., as well as upon one 'who shall resort to
any device,' etc., 'to evade the provisions of the act;' 'or
who shall certify cheques before the amount thereof shall
have been regularly entered to the credit of the dealer upon
the books of the banking association.' The word, 'wilful'
is omitted from the description of offences in the latter part
of this section. Its presence in the first cannot be regarded
as mere surplusage; it means something. It implies on the
part of the officer knowledge and a purpose to do wrong.
Something more is required than an act of certification made
in excess of the actual deposit, but in ignorance of that fact
or without any purpose to evade or disobey the mandates
of the law. The significance of the word ' wilful' in criminal
statutes
been considered by this court. In Felton v.
United Stateq, 96 U. S. 699, 702, it ivas said: 'Doing or
omitting to do a thing knowingly and wilfully, implies not
only a knowledge of the thing, but a determination with a
liad intent to do it or to omit doing it. Theword' wilfully," I
says Chief Justice Shaw, 'in the ordinary sense in which it
is used in statutes, means not merely I voluntarily,' but with
a bad purpose.' 20 Pick. (Mass.) 220. 'It is frequently un-has

SPURR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

derstood,' says Bishop,' as signifying an evil intent without
justifiable excuse.' Crim. Law, voL 1, § 428.
"And later, in the case of Evans v. United States, 153
U. S. 584, 591, there was this reference to the words 'wilfully misapplied': ' In fact, the gravamen of the offence
consists in the evil design with which the misapplication is
made, and a count which should omit the words ' wilfully,'
etc., and ' with intent to defraud,' would be clearly bad.'
"While it is true that care must be taken not to weaken
the wholesome provisions of the statutes designed to protect
depositors and stockholders against the wrongdoings of banking officials, it is of equal importance that they should not be
sb construed as to make transactions of such officials, carried on
with the utmost honesty and in a sincere belief that no wrong
was being done, criminal offences, and subjecting them to the severe punishments which may be imposed under those statutes.'!
The wrongful intent, is the essence of the crime. If an
officer certifies a cheque with the intent that the drawer shall
obtain so much money out of the bank when he has none
there, such.officer not only certifies unlawfully, but the specific intent to violate the statute may be imputed. And so
evil design may be presumed if the officer purposely keeps
himself in ignorance of whether the drawer has money in the
bank or not, or is grossly indifferent to his duty in respect to
the ascertainment of that fact.
The defence was that defendant had no actual knowledge
that Dobbins and Dazey had not sufficient funds in the bank
to meet the cheques, nor knowledge of facts putting him'on
inquiry; that, on the contrary, he believed that they had
such funds; that this belief was founded on information he
received from the cashier or the exchange clerk, the proper
sources of information, in response to inquiries which he
made in each instance before he certified; that he honestly
relied on that information, and that he had the right to' do
so. Defendant was entitled to the full benefit of this de,
fence, and in order to that, it was vital that the meaning of
"wilful violation," as used in section 13 of the act of 1882,
should be clearly explained to the jury.

'186

OCTOBER, TERM, 1898
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from this record that after the case had been
committed to the jury, and they had had it under consideration for some hours, they returned to the court room, and
asked the following question, which was written out: "We
want the law as to the certification of cheques when no
money appeared to the credit of the drawer." The court
then read to the jury the first part of section 5208 of the
Revised Statutes, and inquired: "Does this answer your
question? " To which the foreman replied: "Yes, sir."
The court again read that part of the section, and made certain observations, among other things, that a false certification "is the certifying by an officer of a bank that a cheque
is good when there are no funds to meet it."
The record shows that then "as the jury were retiring,
counsel for the defendant said to the court that he thought
what the jury wanted was the act of 1882 making it a misdemeanor to wilfully violate the section of the Revised
Statutes which the court had read to them, and that the
court ought to read and explain that act to the jury; the
court asked if counsel referred to the act prescribing the penalty for false certification, and on being answered in the affirmative, stated that the jury had nothing to do with that."
Exception was taken to the reading twice of the part of section
5208, and the failure to read and explain the act of 1882, and
to the additional instructions given by the court.
We think that the learned Circuit Judge clearly erred in
declining the request of counsel in respect of section 13.
-It is true that it was not part of the function of the jury to
fix the penalty, and the remark of the court, "that the jury
had nothing to do with that," undoubtedly referred to the
penalty only, though, as the matter appears in the record, the
jury may well enough have understood it differently. But it
was the act of 1882 that made the certification of cheques, if
'in "wilful violation" of section 5208, a criminal offence, and
the word "wilful" "implies on the part of the officer knowledge'
and a purpose to do wrong," and plainly it was in relation to
the point of "wilful violation" that counsel wished the court
to read and expound that section. It seems to us that -it

SPURR v. UIITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was the duty of the court to do so, if the question put by the
jury was answered at all, since "the law as to the certificatibn
of cheques when no money appeared to the credit of the
drawer" involves civil consequences under section 5208, and
criminal consequences under section 13, unless it is to be held
that every certification where funds are lacking constitutes a
wilful violation of section 5208. We cannot accept the view
that because when the court asked the jury whether the first
part of section 5208 answered their question, the foreman
replied in the affirmative, therefore there was no error in the
failure to call their attention to section 13. If the court was
satisfied that the law applicable to the case was embodied in
the first part of section 5208, the jury were bound to be
satisfied also; but we are of opinion that that was an
insufficient definition, and was therefore erroneous. However
the court went further, and said:
"I charge you, in addition to the instructions I gave you
this morning, that a cheque drawn upon a bank, where the
drawer has no funds, creates no obligation until it is certified
as good by an officer of the bank, and that makes the cheque
good as to the holder of it, and the bank then becomes estopped,
although there was no warrant for the drawing of the cheque,
as against the bona~fde holder. So that, the obligation of the
bank to meet it in such case is made so by the act of the
officer who certified it to be good. That is what is meant by
false certification. It is the certifying by an officer of a
bank that a cheque is good when there are no funds there to
meet it.
"You understand what I have said now is to be taken in
connection with what I have before instructed you."
We fear that these instructions, following in direct connection with what had passed in reference to section 5208, may
have led the jury to understand the law of the case to be that
the false certification thus defined constituted a criminal
offence under the statute, and that that impression was not
rendered harmless by the admonition that what was then said
was to be taken with what had been said beforeAt all events, we think it would be going too far to hold
VOL.

CL=xx-47

OOTOBER TERM4, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that that caution operated to obviate the error in failing to
explain section 13 at this particular juncture. The jury had
been considering their verdict for several hours, and had then
in effect requested a more complete definition of the offence.
This the court assumed to give, but it was incomplete, and
what was omitted cannot properly be held to have been supplied, under the circumstances, by the reference to prior instructions. The court had indeed, in the original charge, used
the words "wilfully" and "wilful" in the following instructions :
"If you find from the proof that the account of Dobbins
and Dazey, upon the books of the bank, was'overdrawn continuously during the period covered by the dates of the
cheques certified' by the defendant and that the defendant
was in fact ignorant of such overdraft; and that he certified
the several cheques mentioned in the indictment believing at
the time that the exchange deposited by Dobbins and Dazey
on the days upon which said cheques were certified; ,was sufficient or more than sufficient to cover the amount of said
cheques, besides the overdraft already existing, then he is not
guilty and you should acquit him, unless such ignorance of
the overdraft was wilful as elsewhere explained in the court's
instructions. In this connection, you will bear in mind what
I have previously charged you, that if this vas a general and
not a special account of Dobbins and Dazey, that the exchange
which came in was applicable in the first place to the liquidation of the previously existing overdraft before there could be
said to be any funds to the account of Dobbins and Dazey to
respond to the cheques."
"If the proof fails to satisfy your minds clearly and beyond
a reasonable doubt, that the defendant did actually know, at
the time he certified the cheques mentioned in the indictment
that Dobbins and Dazey did not have on deposit in the bank
sufficient funds and credits to meet the cheques so certified,
then you should acquit him, unless you are convinced by the
proof beyond a reasonable doubt that he wilfully, designedly
and in bad faith - these words mean substantially the same
thing- shut his eyes to the fact and purposely refrained

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

739

Syllabus.

from inquiry or investigation for the purpose of avoiding
knowledge."
The court had also said that "in general, if the defendant
acted in good faith in making these certifications, believing
that the state of the account of Dobbins and Dazey justified
it, he is not guilty of the offence charged. Mere negligence
or carelessness unaccompanied by bad faith would not render
him guilty." And other passages of similar purport might be
quoted.
But the jury desired further advice as to what constituted
criminal certification, or wilful violation oE section 5208, and
preferred a request which required a comprehensive answer.
The response was in the nature of a separate charge, and we
are unable to conclude that the error in declining at that time
to call attention to section 13 was cured by the bare reference
to the original charge.
Many other errors were assigned and pressed in argument,
but, as the particular points may not arise in the same way on
another trial, we prefer to refrain from expressing any opinion
upon them..
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap~eals is reversed;
thejudgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the
cause remanded to that court with a direction to set aside
the verdict and grant a new trial.
MR. JusTIoE BnowN and MR.

JUsTICE

MoKN A dissented.

SAN DIEGO LAND AND TOWN COMPANY v.
NATIONAL CITY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 25.

Submitted October 11, 1898.-Decided May 22, 1899.

Under the provisions of the act of the legislature of California of March
7, 1881, c. 52, making it the official duty of the board of supervisors,
town council, board of aldermen or other legislative body of any city

