OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANY & CHICAGO RAILWAY COMPANY, Petitioner, v. LOUISVILLE TRUST
COMPANY.
SAME v. LOUISVILLE BANKING COMPANY.
OERTIORARI TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
11Nos.
29, 80. Argued May 4, 5, 1898. -Decided

May 15,1899.

The Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky has
jurisdiction of a suit brought by a corporation, originally created by the
State of Indiana, against citizens of Kentucky and of Illinois, even if
the plaintiff was afterwards and before the suit made a corporation of
Kentucky also, and pending the suit became a corporation of both Indiana
and Illinois by reason of consolidation with a corporation Qf Illinois; but
the court cannot, in 'such a suit, adjudicate upon the rights and liabilities, if any, of the plaintiffas a corporation of Kentucky, or as a corporation of Illinois.
A court of equity has jurisdiction of a bill by a corporation praying that its
guaranty on a great number of negotiable bonds may be cancelled, and
suits upon it restrained, because of facts not appearing on its face.
Under a statute authorizing the board of directors of a railroad corporation,
upon the petition of a majority of its stockholders, to direct the execution by the corporation of a guaranty of negotiable bonds of another
corporation, a negotiable guaranty executed by order of the directors,
and signed by the president and secretary and under the seal of the first
corporation, upon each of such bonds, without the authority or assent of
the majority of its stockholders, is void as to a purchaser of such bonds
with notice of the want of such authority or assent; but is valid as to a
purchaser in good faith and without such notice.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed April 9, 1890, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, by
the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company,
(hereafter called the New Albany Company,) described as "a
corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Indiana," against the Ohio Valley Improvement and
Contract Company, (hereafter called the construction company,) the Richmond, Nicholasville, Irvine and Beattyville
Railway Company, (hereafter called the Beattyville Com-

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

553

Statement of the Case.

pany,) and the Louisville Trust Company, all corporations of
the State of Kentucky, and other citizens of Kentucky, of New
York and of Illinois, for the cancellation of a contract between
the New Albany Company and the construction company, and
of a guaranty indorsed by the New Albany Company, in accordance wifh that contract, upon bonds issued by the Beattyville Company, and held by the other defendants, and for an
injunction against suits thereon. The Louisville Banking
Company, a corporation of Kentucky, and other bondholders
were afterwards ifade defendants by a supplemental bill.
The bill alleged that the guaranty was fraudulently placed'
on the bonds of the Beattyville Company by a minority of
the plaintiff's directors, who, as individuals, had secured the
option to buy the bonds at a low price; and also averred that
the guaranty was void, for want of the presence of a quorum
of the directors at -the meeting which directed it to be executed, as well as for want of a previous petition in writing by
a majority of the stockholders, pursuant to a statute of Indiana.
Pleas to the jurisdiction, asserting that the plaintiff was a
corporation and a citizen of Kentucky, as well as demurrers
to the bill for want of equity were overruled by the court.
69 Fed. Rep. 431,432; 57 Fed. Rep. 42.
The case was afterwards heard upon pleadings and proofs,
and, so far as is material to be stated, appeared to be as
follows:
The New Albany Company, by articles of incorporation,
filed with the secretary of state of Indiana in January, 1873,
reciting its purchase at a judicial sale at New Albany of
the railroad and franchise, and all the property, real and personal, of another railroad company whose line of railroad ran
from New Albany to Michigan City in the State of Indiana,
and expressed to be made "for the purpose of carrying out
'the design of the said purchase, and forming a corporation of
Indiana," became a -corporation, under the statute of Indiana
of March 3, 1865, Which contained these provisions:
"The said'.corporation shall have capacity to hold, enjoy
and exercise, within other States, the aforesaid faculties,
powers, rights, franchises and immunities, and such others as

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

may be conferred upon it by any law of this State, or of any
other State in which any portion of its railroad may be situate, or in which it may transact any part of its business;
and to hold meetings of stockholders and of its board of
directors, and to do all corpgrate acts and things, without
this State, as validly and to the same extent as it may do the
same within the State, on the line of such road." Indiana
Stat. 1865, c. 20, ยง 5, p. 68; Rev. Stat. ยง 3949.
"Any railroad company incorporated under the provisions
of this act shall have the power and authotity to acquire, by
purchase or contract, the road, roadbed, real and personal
property, rights and franchises, of any other railroad corporation or corporations which may cross or intersect the line of
such railroad company, or any part of the same, or the use
and enjoyment thereof, in whole or in -part; and may also
purchase or contract for the use and enjoyment, in whole or
in part, of any railroad or railroads lying within adjoining
States; and may assume such of the debts and liabilities of
such corporations as may be deemed proper." "Any railroad
company incorporated under the provisions of this act shall
also have power to consolidate with other railroad corporations in the continuous line, either within or without this
State, upon such terms as may be agreed upon by the.corporations owning the same." Indiana Stat. 1865, c. 20, ยง 7, p. 68;
Rev. Stat. ยง 3951.
On April 8, 1880, the legislature of Kentucky passed a statute, entitled "An act to incorporate the New Albany and
Chicago Railway Company," which took effect upon its passage, and the first two sections of which were as follows:"
"SEc. 1. The Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway
.Company, a corporation organized umider the laws of the State
of Indiana, is hereby constituted a corporation, with power to
sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, to have and
use a common seal, with the power incident to corporations,
and authority to operate a railroad.
"SEc. 2. The Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway
Company is hereby authorized to purchase or lease, for depot
purposes in the city of Louisville or county of Jefferson, such

LOUISVILLE &c. IY CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST 00.

555

Statement of the Case.

real estate as may be deemed by it to be necessary for passenger and freight depots and transfer, machine shops, and for all
switches or turnouts necessary to reach the same; and is also
authorized to connect with any railroad or bridge now operated or used, or which may be hereafter operated or used, in
said county of Jefferson, and may build any such connecting
lines, or lease or operate the same; and for all said purposes
shall have the. right to condemn all property required for the
carrying out of the objects herein named; and may bond the
same, and secure the payment of any such bonds by a mortgage of its property, rights and franchises."
The third section of that statute directed how proceedings
for the condemnation of such real estate should be conducted
in the courts of the State of Kentucky. Kentucky Stat. sess..
1879, c. 858, p. 233.
On May 5, 1881, the New Albany Company, (describing
itself as "a corporation existing under the laws of the State
of Indiana," and as owning and operating a line of railroad
from New Albany to Michigan City in the same State,) and
the Chicago and Indianapolis Air Line Railway Company,
(describing itself as -1a consolidated corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the States of Indiana and Illinois,"
and as -havingin process of construction a line of railway extending from Indianapolis in Indiana to a connection with a
railroad at or near Glenwood in Illinois so as to secure a connection with Chicago in that State,) consolidated their stock
and property, under the laws of Indiana and of Illinois, "so as
to create and form a consolidated. corporation, to be called
and known as the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company," by articles of consolidation, the third of which
provided, in accordance with the statutes of Indiana, that
"the said 'consolidated corporation hereby created shall be
vested with all the rights, privileges, immunities and franchises which usually pertain to railroad corporations under
the laws of the respective States of Illinois and Indiana,
wherein the lines of its railroad are situate, and shall also be
vested with all and singular the rights, powers, privileges, immunities, capacities and franchises which before the execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of these articles were lawfully possessed or exercised by either
of the parties hereto;" and the ninth of which provided that
"the principal place of business and the general office of the
consolidated corporation shall be established in the city of
Louisville, Kentucky."
On April 7; 1882, the legislature of Kentucky, by a statute
-entitled "A . act to amend an act entitled ' An act to incorporate the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway,'
approved April 8, 1880," enacted that "the Louisville, New
Albany and Chicago Railway Company is hereby authorized
and empowered to indorse or guarantee the principal and interest of the bonds of any railway company now constructed,
or to be hereafter constructed, within the limits of the State
of Kentucky; and may consolidate its rights, franchises and
privileges with any railway company authorized to construct
a railroad from the city of Louisville to any point on the Virginia line; such indorsement, guarantee or consolidation to be
made upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon
between said companies; or it may lease and operate any railway chartered under the laws of the State of Kentucky:
Provided, it shall not lease or consolidate with any two lines
of railway parallel to each other." Kentucky Stat. sess. 1881,
c. 870, p. 251.
The New Albany Company was not shown to have formally
accepted the statutes of Kentucky of 1880 and 1882, or to
have ever organized as a corporation under those statutes.
But the defendants, as evidence that it had accepted a charter
of incorporation from the State of Kentucky, relied on the
following documents:
1st. Two deeds to it of lands in Jefferson County, made
and recorded in 1881, in which it Was described as "of the
city of Louisville, Kentucky."
2d. Two mortgages executed by it to trustees in 1881 and
1886, including its railway in Indiana and in Jefferson
County, in each of which it was described as "a corporation
duly created and existing under the laws of Indiana and
Kentucky."
3d. A lease to it from the Louisville Southern Railway

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

557

Statement of the .Case.

Company, in 1888, (more fully stated below,) in which it was
similarly described.
4th. A petition (the date of which did not -appear in the
transcript) that an action brought against it in a court of the'
State of Indiana might be removed into- the Circuit Court of
the United States, upon.the ground tha it was a corporation
of Kentucky.
5th. Proceedings-in 1887-, in a court of Jefferson County,
for the condemnation of lands in that county upon a petition
in which "the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway
Company states that it is a corporation, and that it is duly
empowered by its charter by an act of the general assembly
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to purchase; lease or condemn in said State such real estate as may be necessary for
railway, switches, side tracks, depots, yards and other railway
purposes, and to construct and -operate a railroad in said
State."
On March 8, 1883, the legislature of Indiana passed a statute, entitled "An act to aubhorize railroad companies organized under the laws of the State of Indiana to indorse and
guarantee the bonds of any railroad company organized under
the laws of any adjoining State," the material provisions of'
which were as follows:
"SEC. 1. The board of directors of any railway company
organized under and pursuant to the laws of the State of Indiana, whose line of railway extends across the Staite in either
direction, mayj upon the petition of the holders of a majority
of the stock of such railway company, direct the execution
by such railway company of an indorsement guaranteeing the
payment of the principal and interest of the bonds of any railway company organized under or pursuant to the laws of any
adjoining State, the construction of whose line or lines of railway would be beneficial to the business or traffic of the railway so indorsing or guaranteeing suci bonds.
"SEc. 2. *The petition of the stockholders, specified in the
preceding section of this act, shall state the facts relied on to
show the benefits accruing to the company indorsing or guaranteeing the bonds above mentioned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"SEoc. 3. No railway company shall, under the provisions of
this act, indorse or guarantee the bonds of any such railway
company or companies, as is above mentioned, to an amount
exceeding one half of the par value of the stock of the railway
company so indorsing or guaranteeing as authorized under this
act." Indiana Stat. 1883, c. 127, p. 182; Rev. Stat. % 3951a3951o.
On December 10, 1888, the New Albany Company took a
lease, in which it was described as "a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of the State of Indiana arid of the
State of Kentucky," from the Louisville Southern Railroad
Company, a corporation of Kentucky, of the railroad of the
latter, running from Louisville to Burgin through sundry other
places in Kentucky, and connecting at Versailles in that State
with a railroad then being constructed by the Beattyville
Company to Beattyville, and which would, if completed, extend the connections of the New Albany Company a considerable distance towards the Virginia line.
The Beattyville Company had, on October 11, 1888, made
a contract with the Ohio Valley Improvement and Contract
Company, by which that company agreed to construct and
equip its line of railroad; and, in consideration thereof, the
Beattyville Company agreed to execute and issue to the construction company its first mortgage bonds for $25,000 a mile,
dated July 1, 1889, and payable in thirty years, with interest
at the annual rate of six per cent; and to transfer to that
company the subscriptions received from municipalities, and to
issue to that company all its capital stock, except what would
have to be issued on account of such subscriptions.
On October 8, 1889, the board of directors of the New Albany Company, as appeared by its rebords, passed a resolution
ordering the president and secretary to execute, under the
seal of the company, a contract with the construction company,
which contract described that company as a corporation of the
State of Kentucky, and the New Albany Company as "a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the States
of Indiana and Kentucky," and contained these stipulations:
"Fourth, The said New Albany Company agrees to and

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. 559
Statement of the Case.

with the said construction company that it will, from time to
time, as the said first mortgage bonds are earned by and delivered to the said construction company pursuant to the terms
of their said construction contract, guarantee the payment by
the said Beattyville Company of the principal and interest of
the said bonds in manner and form following, that is to say,
by indorsing upon each of said bonds a contract of guaranty
as follows:
" ' For value received, the Louisville, :New Albany and Chicago Railway Company hereby guarantees to the holder of
the within bond the payment, by the obligor thereon, of the
principal and interest thereof in accordance with the tenor
thereof.
"' In witness whereof the said railway company has caused
its corporate name to be signed hereto by its president and its
seal to be attached by its secretary.'"
"Sixth. In consideration of the premises, the said construction company agrees to transfer and'deliver to the said New Albany Company three fourths of the entire capital stock of the
said Beattyville Company, the said delivery to proceed par
.passuwith the guaranteeing of the said bonds by the said New
Albany Company: $3000 at par of the said stock being delivered for each $4000 of bonds guaranteed."
This contract was dated October 9, 1889; was signed in the
name of each company by its president and secretary and under
its corporate seal; and a copy of it was spread upon the records
of the board of directors of the New Albany Company.
The charges of fraud against the directors who took part in
that meeting were disproved; and the evidence failed to establish that the meeting was not in every respect a lawful one.
But no petition of a majority of the stockholders for the
execution of the guaranty was presented, as required by the
statute of Indiana of 1883, above cited. Nor was there any
evidence that the stockholders ever authorized or ratified the
contract between the New Albany Company and the construction company, or the guaranty executed in accordance therewith.
Pursuant to that contract, and before March 12i 1890, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

stock of the Beattyville Company was delivered to the New
Albany Company; a guaranty, in the terms specified in the
fourth article of that contract, and bearing the signature of
the New Albany Company by its president and secretary and
its corporate seal, was placed on 1185 bonds for $1000 each of
the Beattyville Company; and the bonds thus guaranteed
were put on the market by the construction company.
On March 12, 1890, the annual meeting of the stockholders
of the New Albany Company was held, a new board of directors was elected, and the meeting was adjourned to March
22, 1890, when it was voted by a majority of the stockholders
to reject and disapprove the contract with the construction
company, and the guaranty placed on the bonds of the Beattyville Company, as having been made without legal authority
or the approval of the stockholders, and to empower the board
of directors to take all proceedings necessary or proper to cancel such contract and guaranty, and to relieve the company
from any obligation or liability by reason thereof.
Many of the bonds so guaranteed and put on the market,
including one hundred and twenty-five bonds purchased by the
Louisville Trust Company, and ten bonds purchased by the
Louisville Banking Company, were taken from the construction company by the purchasers in good faith, and without
notice or knowledge that there had been no petition of a majority of the stockholders for the execution of the guaranty;
and forty-five of the bonds were purchased from the construction company by the Louisville Banking Company after the
meeting in March, 1890, and with notice that the majority of
the stockholders had not petitioned for, but had disapproved,
the guaranty.
The Beattyville Company and the construction company
went on with the work of constructing the Beattyville railroad until the summer of 1890, when they both became insolvent, and their property passed into the hands of receivers.
The plaintiff, in its bill, tendered back the stock which, it
had received, and the stock was deposited in the office of the
clerk of the court.
The Circuit Court entered a decree for the plaintiff against

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

561

Opinion of the Court.

all the defendants. 69 Fed. Rep. 431. The Louisville Trust
Company and the Louisville Banking Company and other
bondholders appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and ordered the bill
to be dismissed as to the Louisville Trust Company and the
Louisville Banking Company, except as to the forty-five
bonds held by the latter company; and, as to these bonds,
-ordered an injunction against suits on the guaranty against
the plaintiff as a corporation of Indiana and Illinois, and that
there be stamped on each of these forty-five bondg, under its
guaranty, these words: "This guaranty is binding only on the
Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, a
corporation of Kentucky. It is not binding on the Louisville,
New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, a corporation
of Indiana and Illinois." 43 U. S. App. 550. The plaintiff
applied for and obtained these writs of certiorari. 164 U. S.
1707.
.Mr'. E. C. Field and -Mr. G. W Eretzinge' for petitioner.
.r. James S. Pirtlewas on their brief.
7r.St. John Boyle and -Mr. Swagar Sherley for the Louisville Trust Company and the Louisville Banking Company.
MR.SusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago
Railway Company, undoubtedly became a corporation of the
State of Indiana in 1873 by its incorporation according to
the general statute of 1865 of that State.
Whether it afterwards became a corporation of the State of
Kentucky also was strongly contested at the bar, and depends
upon the legal effect of the statute of Kentucky of 1880.
That statute (being the first statute of Kentucky affecting
this corporation) is described indeed in its title, as well is in
the title of the statute of 1882 amending it, as "An act to
incorporate" this company, although in the title of the first
VoL.-crxX-56

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

statute the word " Louisville" in its name is omitted. By the
first words of the enacting part of the statute of 1880, it is
"the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Indiana," and not any other corporation, or any association of
natural persons, that is "hereby constituted a corporation,"
with the usual powers of corporations, and with "authority
to operate a railroad." And it is the corporation so described
that, by the other provisions of that statute, may purchase,
lease or condemn real estate required for railroad purposes in
the county of Jefferson, and may connect with any other
railroad in that county, or build, lease or operate any such
connecting line, "and may bond the same, and secure the
payment of any such bonds by a mortgage of its property,
rights and franchises;" and, by the amendatory statute of
1882, may guarantee the bonds of, or consolidate with, other
corporations authorized to construct railroads in Kentucky.
This court has often recognized that a corporation of one
State may be made a corporation of another State by the
legislature of that State, in regard to property and acts
within its territorial jurisdiction. Ohio & Mississippi Railroad Company v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286, 297; Railroad Co.
v. Harris, 12 Wallace, 65, 82; Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13
Wall. 270, 283; Railroad Co. v. Vance, 96 U. S. 450, 457;
.Memphis & *Charleston, Railroad v. Alabarna, 107 U. S.
581; Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. 8. 436, 451, 452; Stone v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307, 334; Graham
v. Boston, llartford & Erie. Railroad, 118 U. S. 161, 169;
Martin v. Baltinoe'& Ohio Railroad,151 U. S. 673, 677.
But this court has. repeatedly said that, in order to make
a corporation, already in existence under the laws of one
State; a corporation of another State, "the language used
muh imply creation or adoption in such form as to confer the
power usually exercised over corporations by the State, or by
the legislature, and such allegiance as a state corporation owes
to its creator. The mere grant of privileges or powers to it
as an existing corporation, without more, does not do this.'
Pennsylvania Railroad v.St. Louis, . lon & Terre RauW

LOUISVILLE &c. R' Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

563

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad,118 U. S. 290, 296; Goodlett v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad, 122 U. S. 391, 405, 408; St. -Louis & San
.F'anciscoRailway v. James, 161 U. S. 545, 561.
The acts done by the Louisville, INew Albany and Chicago
Railway Company, under the statutes of Kentucky, while
affording ample evidence that it had accepted the grants
thereby made, can hardly affect the question whether the
terms of those statutes were sufficient to make the company
a corporation of Kentucky.
But a decision of the question whether the plaintiff was or
was not a corporation of Kentucky does not appear to this
court to be required for the disposition of this case, either as
to the jurisdiction, or as to the merits.
As to the jurisdiction, it being clear that the plaintiff was
first created a corporation of the State of Indiana, even if it
was afterwards created a corporation of the State of Kentucky
also, it was and remained, for the purposes of the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States, a citizen of Indiana, the
State by which it was originally created. It could neither
have brought suit as a corporation of both States against a
corporation or other citizen of either State, nor could it have
sued or been sued as a corporation of Kentucky, in any court
of the United States. Ohio & .MississippiRailroadv. Wheeler,
1 Black, 286; St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. James,
161 U. S. 545; St. Joseph Railroad v. Steele, 167 U. S. 659,
663; Barrow Steamship Co. v. Iane, 170 U. S. 100, 106.
In St. Louis & San F1raniscoRailway v. James, the company was organized and incorporated under the laws of the
State of Missouri in 1873, and owned a railroad extending
from Monett in that State to the boundary line between it
and the State of Arkansas. The constitution of the State of
Arkansas provided that foreign corporations might be authorized to do business in this State under such limitations and
restrictions as might be prescribed by law, but should not
have power to appropriate or condemn private property. The
legislature of Arkansas, by a statute of 1881, provided that
any railroad company incorporated by or under the laws of
any other State, and having a line of railroad to the boundary

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of Arkansas, might, for the purpose of continuing its line of
railroad into this State, purchase the property, rights and
franchises of any railroad company organized under the
laws of this State, and thereby acquire the right of eminent domain possessed by that company, and hold, construct, own and operate the railroad so purchased as fully
as "that company might have done; and that "said foreign.
railroad company" should be subject to all the provisions of
all statutes relating to railroad corporations, including the
service of process, and should keep an office in the State.
Pursuant to that statute, the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railway Company, in 1882, purchased from railroad corporations of Arkansas their railroads, franchises and property,
including a railroad connecting at the boundary line with its
own railroad, and extending to Fort Smith in Arkansas, and
thenceforth owned and operated a continuous line of railroad
from Monett in Missouri to Fort Smith in Arkansas. In 1889
the legislature of Arkansas passed another statute, providing
that every railroad corporation of any other State, which had
purchased a railroad in this State, should, within sixty days
from the passage of this act, file a copy of its articles of incorporation or charter with the secretary of state of Arkansas,
and should " thereupon become a corporation of this State,
anything in its articles of incorporation or charter to the contrary notwithstanding." And the St. Louis and San FranciscoRailway Company forthwith filed with the secretary of state
of Arkansas p copy of its articles of incorporation under the
laws of Missouri, as required by this statute.
In an action brought by a citizen qf Missouri against that
6ompany in the Circuit Court of. the United States for the
Western District of Arkansas, to recover for its negligence on
that part of its road within the State of Missouri, the company pleaded to the jurisdiction that it was a citizen of Missouri; and the question was certified to this court whether the
company, by filing a copy of its articles of incorporation under
the laws of Missouri with'the secretary of state of Arkansat,
and continuing to operate its railroad through that State, became a corporation and citizen of the State of Arkansas.

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

565

Opinion of the Court.

-This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Shiras, upon a careful review of the earlier cases, answered that question in the
negative.
The fundamental proposition deduced from the previous
decisions was thus stated: "There is an indisputable legal
presumption that a state corporation, when sued or suing in a
Circuit Court of the United States, is composed of citizens of
the State which created it, and hence such a corporation-is itself
deemed to come within that provision of the Constitution of
the United States which confers jurisdiction upon the Federal
courts in ' controversies between citizens of different States.'"
The court frankly recognized that "it is competent for a
.railroad corporation organized under the laws of one State,
when authorized so to do by the consent of the State which
created it, to accept authority from another State to extend
its railroad into such State, and -to receive a grant of powers
to own and control, by lease or purchase, railroads therein,
and to subject itself to such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the second State;" and that "such corporations
may be treated by each of the States whose legislative grants
they accept as domestic corporations." 161 U. S.562.
But the court went on to say: "The presumption that a
corporation is composed of citizens of the State which created
it, accompanies such corporation when it does business in
another State, and it may sue or be sued in the Federal courts
in such other State as a citizen of the State of its original
creation." And after referring to the provisions of the statutes of Arkansas of 1881 and 1889, the court added, "But
whatever may be the effect of such legislation, in the way of
subjecting foreign railroad companies to control and regulation by the local laws of Arkansas, we cannot concede that it
availed to create an Arkansas corporation out of a foreign
corporation, in such a sense as to make it a citizen of Arkansas, within the meaning of the Federal Constitution, so as to
subject it as such to a suit by a citizen of the State of its origin.
In order to bring such an artificial body as a corporation
within the spirit and letter of that Constitution, as construed
by the decisions of this court, it would be necessary to create

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

it out of natural persons, whose citizenship of the State creating it could be imputed to the corporation itself." 161
U. S. 562, 565.
In that case, the constitution of Arkansas denied to foreign
corporations the right of eminent domain; and the Missouri
corporation acquired that right, and owned and operated a
railroad in Arkansas, in virtue of statutes authorizing it to
purchase the property, rights and franchises of Arkansas corporations, and requiring it to file a copy of its articles of incorporation or charter with the secretary of state of Arkansas,
and enacting that it should "thereupon become a corporation
of this State, anything in its articles of incorporation or charter to the contrary notwithstanding." Yet it was held that it
was not thereby made a corporation of Arkansas, in the sense
of. the provisions of the Constitution, and of the acts of Congress, conferring jurisdiction on the courts of the United
States by reason of diverse citizenship.
The statutes of Arkansas in that case went quite as far, to
say the least, towards constituting a corporation of another
State a corporation of the State enacting those statutes, as
the statutes of Kentucky did in the case at bar.
The consolidation of the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, under the same name, with a railroad
company of Illinois in 1881, clearly does not affect the question of jurisdiction. That consolidation appears, by cases
cited at the bar, to have been in accordance with the law of
Indiana, but not to have been authorized by the law of flinois. Louisville, 3Tez Albany & Chicago Railway v. Boney,
117 Indiana, 501; American Trust Co. v. -Minnesota & KZorthwestern, Railroad, 157 Illinois, 641." It may have been ratified by very recent legislation in Illinois. Illinois Stat. June 9,
1891; Laws of 1897, p. 281; McAuley v. Columbus, Chicago
& Indiana Railway, 83 Illinois, 348, 352. But jurisdiction of
a suit, ofice acquired by a court of the United States by reason of the requisite citizenship, is not lost by x change in the
citizenship of either party pending the suit. -Morganv. JKorgan, 2 Wheat. 290; Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164; Koenigsberger v. Richmond Co., 158 U. S.41, 49.

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. ,OUISVIZtE TRI ST dO.

561

Opinion of the Court.

The demurrers to the bill for want of equity were rightly
overruled, and were not insisted on in this court. The object
-of the bill was that the guaranty upon a great number of
negotiable bonds, which might otherwise pass into the hands
of bonafie purchasers, might be cancelled, and suits upon the
guaranty restrained, because of facts not appearing upon its
face. The relief sought could only be had in a court of
-equity. .Peirsoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95, 98; Grand Chute v.
Winegar, 15 Wall. 373, 376; Robb v. 'Fos, 155 U. S. 13 ; Spring.port v. Teutonia Savings Bank, 75 N. Y. 397; Fuller v. Percival, 126 Mass. 381.
We are then brought to the question of the validity of the
guaranty by the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago RaJlway Company of the bonds of the Beattyville Company, as
between the parties before us, and under the circumstances
shown by this record.
A railroad corporation, unless authorized by its act of incorporation or by other statutes to do so, has no power to
guarantee the bonds of another corporation; and such a guaranty, or any contract to give one, if not authorized by statute,
is beyond the scope of the powers of the corporation; and
strictly ultra vires, unlawful and void, and incapable of being
made good by ratification or estoppel. Central Tr'ansportation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, and 171 U. S.
138; Tacksonv'ille &c.Railway v. I-ooper, 160 U. S. 514, 524;
Union Paciflc Railway v. Chicago, Rok Island & Pacific
Railway, 163 U. S. 564, 581; California Bank v. Kennedy,
167 U. S. 362, 367, 368 ; Davis v. Old Colony Railroad,131
Mass. 581; Elutrnboldt Co. v. Variety Co., 12 U. S. App. 334.
The real question in the case is whether this guaranty was
valid under the laws of Indiana, the State by which the
guarantor was originally created a corporation, and as a corporation of which it brought this suit.
Some reliance was placed upon the statute of Indiana of
1865; authorizing any railroad company incorporated under
its provisions, (as the New Albany Company was,) to consoli(late with any railroad corporation having a connecting line,
either within or without the State, or to acquire, by purchase or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, its property, rights and franchises, or the use and
enjoyment thereof, in whole or in part, and to "assume such
of the debts, and liabilities of such corporations as may be
deemed proper." It was argued that the powers thus given
embraced the contract by which the New Albany Company
agreed with the construction company, in consideration of
receiving from it a controlling interest in the stock of the
Beattyville Company, to guarantee the bonds of that company.
But the New Albany Company never consolidated itself
with the Beattyville Company, or acquired by purchase or
contract its property, rights and franchises, or the use or
enjoyment thereof, in whole or in part. It is doubtful, to say
the least, whether a mere purchase of three fourths of its stock
could authorize an assumption of its debts, under the statute
of 1865, if that statute had remained in full force. In il v.
Ni.bet, 100 Indiana, 341, cited at the bar, a purchase of the
stock of one railroad company by another was upheld, not as
equivalent to a purchase of the property and franchises, but
as a reasonable means to the accomplishment of the consolidation of the two companies.
But we cannot doubt that, as was held by both courts below,
the statute of Indiana of 1883 superseded and repealed, as to
matters within its scope and terms, the provisions of all former
statutes of the State on the subject.
The statute of Indiana of 1883 is entitled "An act to
authorize railroad corporations organized under the laws of
the State of Indiana to indorse and guarantee the bonds of
any railroad company organized under the laws of any adjoining State;" and enacts, in section 1, that "the board of directors of any railway company organized under and pursuant
to the laws of the State of Indiana, whose line of railway
extends across the State in either direction, may, upon the
petition of the holders of a majority of the stock of such railway company, direct the execution by such railway company
of an indorsement guaranteeing the payment of the principal
and interest of the bonds of any railway company organized
under or pursuant to the laws of any adjoining State, the
construction of whose line or lines of railway would be bene-

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

569

Opinion of the Court.

ficial to the business or traffic of the railway so indorsing or
guaranteeing such bonds." Section 2 provides that such
petition of the stockholders shall state the facts relied on to
show the benefits accruing to "the company indorsing or
guaranteeing the bonds." And section. 3 provides that "no
railway company shall, under the provisions of this act,"
indorse or guarantee such bonds to an amount exceeding half
the par value of the stock of "the railway company so indorsing or guaranteeing."
The Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company
was a railway company organized under and pursuant to the
laws of Indiana, and its line of railway extended across the
State from south to north. On October 8, 1889, the board of
directors, at a regular meeting, passed a resolution, entered
upon its records, authorizing the president and secretary to
execute under seal of the company a contract by which the
company agreed with a corporation which was constructing
the railroad of the Beattyville Company, a railroad corporation of Kentucky, to guarantee the payment by the Beattyville
Company of the principal and interest of bonds of that company, by indorsing on each bond a guaranty, executed in like
manner, by which "for value received; the Louisville, New
Albany and Chicago Railway Company hereby guarantees to
the holder of the within bond the payment, by the obligor
thereon, of the principal and interest thereof in accordance
with the tenor thereof." The contract, as well as the guaranty
on-many of the bonds, was accordingly executed by the president and secretary and under the seal of the company, and the
contract was spread upon the records of the board of directors.
No petition of a majority of the stockholders for the execution
of the guaranty was ever presented, as requiredby the statute;
there was no evidence that the stockholders ever authorized or
ratified the contract or the guaranty; -and, at the next annual
meeting of the stockholders, in March, 1890, it was voted to
reject and disapprove both the contract and the guaranty, as
having been made without legal authority or the approval of
the stockholders.
Before that meeting was held, one hundred and twenty-five

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the bonds thus guaranteed had been sold by the construction company to the Louisville Trust Company, and ten bonds
to the Louisville Banking Company, each of which companies
took those bonds in good faith and without notice that no
petition had been presented by a majority of the stockholders
for the execution of the guaranty.
Forty-five more of the bonds were purchased by the Louisville Banking Company from the construction company after
that meeting, and with notice that a majority of the stockholders had never petitioned for, but had disapproved, the execution of the guaranty. The Louisville Banking Company,
thus having notice, when it took these forty-five bonds, that
the prerequisite to the execution of the guaranty, under the
statute of Indiana of 1883, had not been complied with, was
not a bona fide holder of these bonds, and should not be allowed to enforce the guaranty thereon against the plaintiff.
The controverted question is whether, the bonds which the
Louisville Trust Company and the Louisville Banking Company, respectively, purchased in good faith, and without notice
of the want of the assent of the majority of the stockholders,
are valid in the bands of these companies.
The guaranty by the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago
Railway Company of the bonds of the Beattyville Company
was not ultra vires, in the sense of being outside the corporate
powers of the former company; for the statute of 1883 expressly authorized such a company to execute such a guaranty,
and its board of directors to direct its execution by the company. The statute, indeed, made it a prerequisite, to the
action of the board of directors, that it should be upon the
petition of a majority of the stockholders; but this was only
a regulation of the mode and the agencies by which the corporation should exercise the power granted to it.
The distinction between the doing by a corporation of an
act beyond the scope of the powers granted to it by law, on
the one side, and an irregularity in the exercise of the granted.
powers, on the other, is well established, and has been constantly recognized by this court.
It was clearly indicated in two of its earliest judgments on

LOUISVILLE &c. Rl'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. 571
Opinion of the Court.

the subject of ultra vires, both of which were delivered by
Mr. Justice Campbell.
In Pearcev. .tadison & Ihdianapolis Railq-oad, 21 How.
441, two railroad corporations of Indiana were held not to have
the power to purchase a steamboat to be employed on the
Ohio River, to run in connection with their railroads, because
this "diverted their capital from the objects contemplated by
their charters, and exposed it to perils for which they afforded
no sanction;" "persons dealing with the managers of a corporation must take notice of tile limitations imposed upon
their authority by the act of incorporation;" "the public
have an interest that neither the managers nor stockholders
of the corporation sh'ldl transcend their authority ;" and the
contract in question "was a departure from the business" of
the railroad corporations, and "their officers exceeded their
authority." 21 How. 443, 445.
In Zabriskie v. Cleveland, Coolumbus & CincinnatiRailroad,
23 How. 381, the statutes of Ohio empowered railroad corporations, "by means of their subscription to the capital stock
of any other company, or otherwise," to aid it in the construction of its road, for the purpose of forming a connection
between the two lines, provided that no such aid should be
furnished until two thirds of the stockholders represented and
voting, at a meeting called by the directors, should have
assented thereto. The directors of three railroad corporations
made a contract with another railroad corporation to guarantee its bonds, as part of an arrangement for connecting the
four roads; and the bonds were accoi'dingly guaranteed, and
were issued to bona fide holdrs, without any meeting of the
stockholders having been called. But, upon evidence that
the stockholders had subsequently assented to the transaction,
the bonds were held to be valid; and the court expressly
declared that the doctrine that a corporation cannot vary
from the object of its creation, and that persons dealing with
a company must take notice of whatever is contained in the
law of its organization, does not apply to "those cases in
which a corporation acts within the range of its general
authority, but fails to comply with some formality or regula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion which it should not have, neglected, but which it has
chosen to disregard." 23 How. 398.
Again, in entral TransportationCo. v. .PuZlman 's Car Co.,
139 U. S. 24, this court, in summing up the result of previous
decisions, stated the same distinction as follows: "A contract
of a corporation, which is ultra vires in the proper sense, that
is to say, outside the object of its creation -as defined in the
law of its organization, and therefore beyond the powers
conferred upon it by the legislature, is not voidable only, but
wholly void and of no legal effect; the objection to the contract is not merely that the corporation ought not to have
made it, but that it could not make it; the contract cannot
be ratified by either party, .because it could not have been
authorized by either; no performance on either side can give
the unlawful contract any validity, or be the foundation of
any right of action upon it. When a corporation is acting
within the general scope of the powers conferred upon it by
the legislature, the corporation, as well as persons contracting
with it, may be estopped to deny that it has complied with
the legal formalities which are prerequisites to its existence
or to its action, because such requisites might in fact have
been complied with. But when the contract is beyond the
powers conferred upon it by existing laws, neither the corporation, nor the other party to the contract, can be estopped,
by assenting to it or by acting upon it, to show that it was
prohibited by those laws." 139 U. S. 59.
In St. Louis, Vandalia & Terre Haute Railroadv. Terre
Haute & Jndianapolis Railroad, 145 U. S. 393, one of the
parties relied on a provision of a statute of Illinois that it
should not be lawful for any railroad company of Illinois, or
its directors, to consolidate its road with any railroad out of
the State, to lease its road to any railroad company out of the
State, or to lease any railroad out of the State, "without having first obtained the written consent of all of the stockholders of said roads residing in the State of Illinois, and any
contract for such consolidation or lease which may be made
without having first obtained said written consent, signed by
the resident stockholders in Illinois, shall be null and void."

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

573

Opinion of the Court.

Of that statute, this court said: "It did not limit the scope
of the powers conferred upon the corporation by law, an
excess of which could not be ratified or be made good by
estoppel; but only prescribed regulations as to the manner of
exercising .corporate powers, compliance with which the stockholders might waive, or the corporation might be estopped,
by lapse of time, or otherwise, to deny." 145 U. S. 403.
A corporation, though legally considered a person, must
perform its corporate duties through natural persons, and is
impersonated in and represented by its principal officers, the
president and directors, who are not' merely its agents, but
are, generally speaking, the representatives of the corporation
in its dealings with others. Shaw, C. J., in Burrill v. Nahant Bank, 2 Met. 163, 166, 167; Comstock, J., in 'Hoyt v.
nITompson, 19 N. Y. 207, 216. And the appropriate form of
verifying any Written obligation to be the act of the corporation is by affixing the signatures of the president and secretary and the corporate seal.
The bonds of the Beattyville Company were instruments
negotiable by delivery; and the guaranty indorsed upon each
of them by the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company was signed by the president and secretary and
under its corporate seal, and was in terms payable to the
holder thereof and itself negotiable.
One who takes from a railroad or business corporation, in
good faith, and without actual notice of any inherent defect,
a negotiable obligation issued by order of the board of directors, signed by the president and secretary in the name and
under the seal of the corporation, and disclosing upon its face
no want of authority, has the right to assume its validity, if
the corporation could, by any action -of its officers or stockholders, or of both, have authorized the execution and issue
of the obligation.
In -Merchant' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, this court
stated, as an axiomatic principle in the law of corporations,
this proposition : "Where a party deals with a corporation in
good faith - the transaction is not ultra vires - and he is unaware of any defect of authority or other irregularity on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

part of those acting for the corporation, and there is nothing
to excite suspicion of such defect or irregularity, the corporation is bound by the contract, although such defect or irregularity in fact exists. If the contract can be valid under any
circumstances, an innocent party in such a case has a right to
presume their existence, and the corporation is estopped to
deny them." 10 Wall. 644, 645. The proposition was supported by citations of niany English and American cases, and
among them Royal British Bank v. Turguand,(1856) 6 El. &
B1. $27. And the justices of this court, while. differing among
themselves in the application of the principle to municipal
bonds, have always treated Royal British Bank v. Twrquand
as well decided upon its facts. Knox County v. Aspinwall,
21 How. 539, 545; iloran v. 3liami County, 2 Black, 722,
724; Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 203; St. JosipA v.
Rogers, 16 Wall. 644, 666; Hnumnoldt v. Long, 92 U. S. 642,
650. And see Zabriskie v. Cleveland, Columbus & Cincinnati
Railroad,23 How. 381, above cited.
Royal British Bank*v. Turquand was an action upon a
bond signed by two directors, and under the seal of the company, and given for money borrowed by a joint stock company
formed under an act of Parliament limiting its powers to the
acts authorized by its deed of settlement, and whose deed of
settlement provided that the directors might so borrow such
sums as should, by'a resolution passed at a general meeting
of the company, be authorized to be borrowed. The defence
was that no such resolution had been passed, and that the
bond had been given without the authority of the shareholders. The Court of Exchequer Chamber, affirming the
judgment of the Queen's Bench, without passing upon the
sufficiency of the resolution in that base, held the company
liable on the bond; and, speaking by Chief Tustice Jervis,
said: "We may now take for granted that the dealings with
these companies are not like dealings with other partnerships,
and that the parties dealing with them are bound to read the
statute and the deed of settlement. But they are not bound
to do more. And the party here, in reading the deed of settlement, would find, not a prohibition from borrowing, but a

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO.v. LOUISVILLE TRUST 00. '575
Opinion of the Court.

permission to do so on certain conditions. Finding that the
authority might be made complete by a resolution, he would
have a right to infer the fact of a resolution authorizing that
which on the face of the document appeared to be legitimately done." 6 El. & Bl. 332.
The decision in Royal British -Bank v. Turquand has
been followed, and Lord Wensleydale's dicta to the contrary,
a year later, in Ernest v. NicAolls, (1857) 6 H. L. Cas. 401,
418, 419, have been disapproved or qualified, in a long line of
decisions in England. Agar v. Athenceum Life Assurance
Society, (1858) 3 0. B. (N. S.) 725, 753, 755; Prince of Wales
Assurance Society v. Harding,(1858) El. Bl. & El. 188, 221,
222; in re Atkencvum Society, (1858) 4 K. & J. 549, 560,
561; Fountaine v. Carmarthen Co., (1868) L. R. 5 Eq. 316,
321; Colonial Bank of Australasia v. Tillan, (1874) L. R.
5 P. C. 417, 448; Mahony v. East Holyford Co., (1875) L. R. 7
H. L. 869, 883, 893, 894, 902; County of Gloucester Bank v.
Rudry .Aferthyr Co., (1895) 1 Oh. 629, 633. The only English decision cited at the bar, which appears to support the
opposite conclusion, is Commercial Bank v. Great Western
Railway, (1865) 3 Moore P. C.(N. S.) 295, which, unless it can
be distinguished on its peculiar circumstances, is against the
general current of authority. See also a very able judgment
of the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey, delivered
by Mr.Justice Depue,' in Hackensack Water Co. v. De Kay, 9
Stewart, (36 N. J. Eq.) 548, 559-567.
In the present case, all natural persons or corporations by
whom bonds of the Beattyville Company bearing the guaranty of the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway
Company, signed by the proper officers of the company and
under its seal, wdre purchased in good. faith, and without notice that there had been no petition of a majority of the stockholders for their execution, had the right to assume that such
a petition had been presented, as required by the statute of
1883.
The records of the railroad corporation and of its board of
directors, which would naturally show whether such a petition
had or had not been filed, were private records, which a pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser of the bonds was not obliged to inspect, as he would
have been if the fact had been required by law to be entered
upon a public record. Brewer, J., in Blair v. St. Louis,HannibaZ & Keokuk Railroad, 25 Fed. IRep. 684; Hackensack
Water Co. v. De Kay, 9 Stewart, (36 N. J. Eq.) 548, 568;
.Me ormick v. -Market Bank, 165 U. S. 538, 551; Irvine v.
Union Bank of Australia, 2 App. Cas. 366, 379.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
so far as it ordered the bill to be dismissed with regard to the
guaranty'on the bonds which the Louisville Trust Company
and the Louisville Banking Company took in good faith, and
without notice of any want of authority to execute the guaranty, was correct.
But, in regard to the guaranty on the bonds which the
Louisville Banking Company took with notice that the
guaranty had not been authorized by a majority of the stockholders, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals needs
to be modified.
That court, in its opinion and decree, undertook to determine whether the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company was liable upon the guaranty as a corporation
of Kentucky, and as a corporation of Illinois.
Apart from the question whether it was a corporation of
Kentucky, and from the difficulty of treating the negotiable
guaranty upon each bond as itself divisible, binding the
guarantor as a corporation of one State, and not binding
it as a corporation of another State, there is an insur~mountable objection to the decree in its present form.
The Louisville, NeW Albany and Chicago Railway Company is a party t& this suit as a corporation of Indiana only,
and not as a corporation of Kentucky. It could not, either as
a corporation of both States, or as a corporation of Kentucky
only, have brought this suit against corporations and citizens
of Kentucky, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky, without ousting the jurisdiction of the
.ourt. Ohio c&ifssissippi Railroacv. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286;
St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. James, 161 U. S. 545.
And citizens of Illinois also being defendants in the bill, it

LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y CO. v. LOUISVILLE TRUST CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

is equally impossible to take jurisdiction of the plaintiff as
a corporation of Illinois.
It necessarily follows that the rights and liabilities, if any,
that it may have as a corporation of Kentucky, or as a corporation of Illinois,' cannot be adjudicated in this case; and
that the decrees, both of. the Circuit Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, so far as regards the Louisville Banking
Company, must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to dismiss the bill as to the
guaranty on the ten bonds of which the Louisville Banking
Company was a bona fde purchaser, and to enter a decree,
as to the guaranty on the forty-five bonds of which -it was
not a bona.#de purchaser, that an.injunction be issued against
bringing suit upon the guaranty on these bonds against the
Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, a
corporation of Indiana, and that there be stamped on these
bonds the following word: "This guaranty is not binding
on the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, a corporation of Indiana, and is to that extent cancelled, without prejudice to the rights or liabilities, if any,
that it may have as a corporation of Kentucky, or as a
corporation of Illinois."
Accordingly, in the first case, the decree of the Circuit Court
of A4ppeals is affirmed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of the United States with directions to dismiss
the bill as against the Louisville Trust Company; and,
in the second case, the decrees of both those courts are
reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United States with directions to enter a decree in conformity with the opinion of this court.
VOL. cLxx

37

