FIDELITY TRUST COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE.

429

Statement of the Case.

FIDELITY TRUST AND SAFETY VAULT COMPANY
LOUISVILLE.
SAME v. STONE. Auditor.
LOUISVILLE TRUST COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE.
SAME v. STONE, Auditor.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Mos. 406, 407, 408, 409. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899. -Decided

STATES FOR

May 15, 1899.

On the authority of Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173
U. S. 636, and Stone v. Bank of Commerce, ante, 412, the decrees below

are affirmed.

Ix these cases the respective trust companies who are appellanta, all four being Kentucky corporations chartered subsequent to the year 1856, filed their respective bills to enjoin
the assessment and collection of certain taxes. The want of
power to assess and collect the taxes complained of was in
each bill made to depend upon two substantially identical
grounds, which were briefly these:
First. That a legislative act of the State of Kentucky,
passed in 1886, and designated as the Hewitf Act, had
created an irrevocable contract between the State and the
complainants, from which it arose that the taxes sought to
be enjoined could not be assessed and collected without violating the clause of the Constitution of the United States forbidding imlairment by a State of the obligations of a contract.
Second. That in a suit previously brought by the Louisville
Banking Company, a Kentucky corporation, it had been finally
decided by the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky
that the act in question (the lHewitt Act) had created in favor
of the corporations accepting its provisions an irrevocable
contract, which could not be impaired without Violating the
Constitution of the United States. It was averred in each of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Louisville.

the bills that, although the complainants were not parties to
the suit brought by the Louisville Banking Company, they
were each, nevertheless, privies to the record and decree
rendered therein, because of a certain agreement, which, it
was averred, had been entered into between the' complainants, the commissioners of the sinking fund and the city of
Louisville, through the city attorney, from which the privity
relied on was asserted to have been created. The agreement
in question was stated in full in each of the bills. By virtue
of the privity thus asserted the decree rendered in favor of
the Louisville Banking Company yeas pleaded as establishing
conclusively, by the estoppel arising from the thing adjudged,
the irrevocable nature of the contract springing from the
Hewitt Act and the want of power to impair it by assessing
or collecting the taxes in controversy. The court below
decided that the complainants were not privies .to the decisi6n in the case of the Louisville Banking Company, because
there was such a difference between the business of a banking
company proper and that of a trust company that neither the
commissioners of the sinking funds nor the city attorney of
the city of Louisville had lawful power to agree that the liability of the trust c6mpanies to taxation should abide the
result of the case brought by the Louisville Banking Company to test the right to tax it contrary to the contract which
it was charged the Hewitt Act had embodied. Because of
the want of privity held not to exist, for the reason just
stated, the court below decided that the plea of the thing
adjudged was untenable. On the merits of the case, the
court below held that, as each of the complainants had been
chartered after the year 1856, subsequent to an act adopted
by the Kentucky legislature in that year, reserving the right
to repeal, alter or amend all charters thereafter granted, there
was not an irrevocable contract, and, hence, that the levy of the
taxes complained of did not impair contract obligations. For
these reasons the court sustained demurrers to each of the bills,
and dismissed them. 88 Fed. Rep. 40M.
X.

Hewry Z. Stone for Louisville.

FIDELITY TRUST COMI2ANY v. LOUISVILLE.

431

Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Alexander Pope 7umphrey, -Mr. rank M1inn, .Mr.
Jame8 P. Heln and Xr. John W. Rodman for the banks.
MR.JUSTICE PEOx.HAx, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is unnecessary to determine whether the distinction
between the business of a bank and that of a trust company-was such as to cause it to be illegal to have agreed that
the liability of the trust companies to taxation contrary to
the Hewitt Act should abide the result of the controversy as
to the Louisville Banking Company, since we have just decided in Samuel H. Stone, Auditor, et al., v. Bank of
merce, No. 362, ante, 412, that, irrespective of any distinction
which might exist between the business of a bank eo "mine
and that of a trust company, the commissioners of the sinking fund and the city attorney were without power to have
made the agreement upon which the complainants relied in
order to establish that they 'were privies to the 'decision in
favor of the Louisville- Banking Company. The plea of the
thing adjudged depending upon the existence of privity being
thus disposed of, there remains only to consider the alleged
existence of an irrevocable contract arising from the Hewitt
Act. That no such' contract arose from that act as to. corporations chartered after 1856, or whose charters were extended
subsequent to that year, was decided in Citizens' Savings
Bank of Owensboro v. Oweneboro, 173 U. S. 636. Indeed, the
opinion in that case and the opinion announced in Stone v.
Bank of Commerce, 8utpra, are decisive against the appellants,
who were complainants below, as to every issue which arises
for decision on these -records, and the decrees below rendered

are therefore
4fwmed-

