RICHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

761

Opinion of the Court.

RIOHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE AND
TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 264. Argued April 24, 25, 1899.-DeIded May 22,1899.

The provisions in the act of July 24, 1866, entitled I .An act to aid in the
construction of telegraph lines and to secure to the Government the
use of the same for postal, military and other purposes," and Rev. Stat.
§§ 5263 to 5268, in which those provisions are preserved, have no application to telephone companies, whose business is that of electrically transmitting articulate speech between different points.

TnE statement of the case is made in the opinion of the
court.
.A&. . : iferedith and XMr'. ienry R. Pollardfor the city
of Richmond.
.Xr.Hill Carterand -Mr.Addison L. R7olladay for the Southern Bell Telegraph and Telephone Company.
Zr. George
E. Fearonswas on their brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

HARLA" delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal question in this case is whether the Circuit
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that
the appellee was entitled to claim the benefit of the provisions
of the act of Congress approved July 24, 1866, entitled "An
act to aid in the construction of telegraph linds and to secure
to the Government the use of the same for postal, military
and other purposes." 14 Stat. 221, c. 230.
By that act -the provisions of which are preserved in sections 5263 to 5268, inclusive, Title LXV, of the Revised Statutes of the United States-it was provided:
"§ 1. That any telegraph company now organized, or which
may hereafter be organized, under the laws of any State in
this Union, shall have the right to construct, maintain and

OCTOBER TER45 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

operate lines of Lelegraph through and over any portion of
the public domain of the United States, over and along any
of the military or post roads of the United States which have
been or may hereafter be declared such by act of Congress,
and over, under or across the navigable streams or waters of
the United States: Provided, That such lines of telegraph
shall be so constructed and maintained as not to obstruct the
navigation of such streams and waters, or interfere with the
ordinary travel on such military or post roads. And any of
said companies shall have the right to take and use from such
public lands the necessary stone, timber and other materials
for its posts, piers, stations and other needful uses in the construction, maintenance and operation of said lines of telegraph,
and may preempt and use such portion of the unoccupied
public lands subject to preemption through which its lines of
telegraph may be located as may be necessary for its stations,
not exceeding forty acres for each station; but such stations
shall not be within fifteen miles 'of each other.
"§ 2. That telegraphic communications between the several departments of the Government of the United States and
their officers and agents shall, in their transmission over the
lines of any of said companies, have priority over all other
business, and shall be sent at rates to be annually fixed by the
Postmaster General.
"§ 3. That the rights and privileges hereby granted shall
not be transferred by any company acting under this act to any
other corporation, association or person: Provided, however,
That the United States may at any time after the expiration
of five years from (late of the passage of this act, for postad,
military or other purposes, purchase all the telegraph lines,
property and effects of any or all of said companies at an
appraised value, to be ascertained by five competent, disinterested persons, two of whom shall be selected by the Postmaster
General of the United States, two by the company interested,
and one by the four so previously selected.
"§ 4. That before any telegraph company shall exercise any
of the powers or privileges conferred by this act, such company shall file their written acceptance with the Postmaster

IItICO1ND v. SOVTHERN BELL TEtEP1ONEo

CO.

768

Opinion of the Court.

General, of the restrictions and obligations required by this
act." 14 Stat. 221, c. 230.
Subsequently, by an act approved June 8, 1872, all the
waters of the United States during the time the mail was
carried thereon; all railways and parts of railways which
were then or might thereafter be put in' operation; all canals
and all plank roads; and all letter carrier routes established
in any city or town for the collection and delivery of mail
matter by carriers, were declared by Congress to be "post
roads." 17 Stat. 308, c. 335. These provisions are preserved
in section 3964 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
By an act approved March 1, 1884, "all public roads and
highways, while kept up and maintained as such" were declared to be "post routes." 23 Stat. 3, c. 9.
Proceeding under an act of the legislature of New York
of April 12, 1848, and acts amendatory thereof, certain persons associated themselves on the 11th day of December, 1879,
under the name of the Southern Bell Telephone and Tele-.
graph Company. The articles of association stated that the
general route of the line or lines of the company should be
from its office in the city of New York, "by some convenient
route through or across the States of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia, or otherwise, to the
city of Wheeling or some other convenient point in the State
of West Virginia, and thence to and between and throughout
various cities, towns, points and places within that part of the
State of West Virginia lying south of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad, and within the States of Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, the said line
or lines to connect the said cities of New York and Wheeling
together, and the said other cities, towns, points and places,
or some of them, or points within the same, together or with
each other or with said cities of New York and Wheeling."
By an ordinance passed by the city of Richmond on the
26th day of June, 1884, it was provided: "1. Permission is
hereby granted the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
Company to erect poles and run suitable wires thereon, for
the purpose of telephonic communication throughout the city

OCTOBER TERM. 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of Richmond, on the public streets thereof, on such routes as
may be specified and agreed on by a resolution or resolutions
of the committee on streets, from time to time, and upon the
conditions and under the provisions of this ordinance. 2. On
any route conceded by the committee on streets, and accepted
by the company, the said company shall, under the direction
of the city engineer, so place its poles and wires as to allow
for the use of the said poles by the fire alarm and police telegraph, in all cases giving the choice of position to the city's
wires, wherever it shall be deemed advisable by the council
or the proper committee to extend the fire alarm and police
telegraph over such route. 3. The telephone company to
furnish telephone exchange service to the city at a special
reduction of ten dollars per annum for each municipal station.
4. No shade trees shall be disturbed, cut or damaged by the
said company in the prosecution of the work hereby authorized without the permission of the city engineer and consent
of the owners of property in front of which such trees may
stand, first had and obtained; and all work authorized by this
ordinance shall be, in every respect, subject to the city engineer's supervision and control. 5. The ordinance may at any
time be repealed by the council of the city of Richmond; such
repeal to take effect twelve months after the ordinance of resolution repealing it becomes a law."
The Code of Virginia adopted in 1887, § 1287, provided that
"every telegraph and every telephone company incorporated
by this or any other State, or by the United States, may construct, maintain and operate its line along any of the state or
county roads or works, and over the wat~rs of the State, and
along and parallel to any of the railroads of the State, provided the ordinary lise of such roads, works, railroads and
waters be not thereby obstructed; and along or over the
streets of any city or town, with the consent of the council thereof."
Under date of February 13, 1889, the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company filed with the Postmaster
General its written acceptance of the restrictions and obligations of the above act of July 24, 1866.

ROCICMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE- CO.

T65

Opinion of the Court.

The present suit was brought by that company in the Circuit Court of the United States against the city of Richmond.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff was engaged in the business of a "telephone" company, and of constructing, maintaining and operating "telephone" lines in, through and
between the States of Virginia, West *Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida; that it
bad been so engaged for a period of about fifteen years,
during which time it had continuously maintained at various
places in said States and in Richmond, Virginia, an exchange,
poles, wires, instruments and all other apparatus and property
necessary for the maintenance and operation of "telephones
and telephone lines," and had erected and maintained through
and along the certain streets and alleys of that city numerous
poles and wires for conducting its business; that it had so
conducted its business and erected and maintained its lines,
wires and poles under and by authority of the common council and board of aldermen of the city of Richmond, the legislature of Virginia and acts of the Congress of the United
States; that its "telephone" wires and poles were used byits subscribers in connection with the Western Union Telegraph Company under an agreement between the plaintiff
and that company for the joint use of the poles and fixtures
of both companies in sending and receiving messages; that
its business was in part interstate commerce by reason of its
connections with the above telegraph company; and that its
status was that of a telegraph company under the laws of the
United States and of the State of Virginia and of other States
of the United States, and that it was and is in fact chartered
as a.telegraph company under the general laws of New York.
The plaintiff also alleged that it had accepted the act of
Congress of July 24, 1866; that by virtue of such accept7
ance it became entitled to construct, maintain and operate
lines of telephones over and along any of the military roads
and post roads of the United States, which had then been or
might thereafter be declared such by law; that the streets,
alleys and highways of the city of Richmond are post roads
of the United States; that the several departments of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Government of the United States located in Richmond have
used in that city the plaintiff's electrical conductors, and
other facilities for the transmission of instructions, orders
and information to officers and persons in the administration
of governmental affairs and on other business throughout the
several States and the District of Columbia and in foreign
countries; that under and by virtue of the Virginia Code,
section 1287, the plaintiff was authorized and empowered to
construct, maintain and operate its lines of poles and wires,
with necessary facilities, along and over the streets of any
.city or town in Virginia with the consent of the council
thereof, and under and by virtue of the power and authority
therein conferred, all of which was additional to the right
given by the above act of Congress, it maintained and operated its lines in the streets of the city of Richmond, and had
in all respects complied with the legal obligations and requirements imposed; that relying upon its right to erect, maintain
and operate its lines along and over the streets and alleys of
Richmond, it entered upon said streets and alleys and had
conducted its business and executed its contracts, of which a
large number were in force, to furnish and afford "telephonic"
facilities to the residents of Richmond and to persons outside
of the city of Richmond, and with the officers and agents of
the Federal Government; and that under the act of Congress
of 1866 it was and is entitled to maintain and operate its lines
through and over the streets and alleys of the city of Richmond, "without regard to the consent of the said city, and it
did in fact locate many of its poles and wires and begin the
operation of its business without applying to the said city for
permission to do 80."
The bill then referred to an ordinance of the city approved
July 18, 1891, and alleged that it was in conflict with the
plaintiff's rights and void. It referred also to a subsequent
ordinance of December 14, 1894, repealing the ordinance of
June 26, 1884, granting the right of way through the city to
the plaintiff, and providing "that in accordance with the fifth
section of said ordinance all privileges and rights granted by
said ordinance shall cease and be determined at the expiration

RICHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

767

Opinion of the Court.

of twelve months from the approval of this ordinance by the
mayor."
Reference was also made in the bill to two ordinances passed
September 10, 1895, by one of which it was provided, among
other things: "1. That all poles now erected in the streets or
alleys of the city of Richmond, for the support of wires used
in connection with the transmission of electricity, except such
as support wires required by the city ordinances, to be removed
and run in conduits, shall hereafter be allowed to remain only
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth. 2. No
pole now erected for the support of telephone wires shall
remain on any street in said city after the 15th day of December, 1895, unless the owner or user of such pole shall first
have Vetitioned for and obtained the privilege of erecting and
maintaining poles and wires for telephone purposes in accordance with the conditions of this ordinance, and such other conditions as the council may see fit to impose. And if such
owner, failing to obtain such privilege as above required, shall
neglect or fail to remove such pole or poles and telephone
wires supported thereon from the streets or alleys of the city
by the 20th day of Decembe; 1895, and restore the street to
a condition similar to the rest of the street or alley contiguous
thereto, the said owner shall be liable to a fine of not less than
five nor more than one hundred dollars for every such pole so
remaining in the street or alley; to be imposed by the police
justice of the city; each day's failure to be a separate offence."
By the other ordinance of September 10, 1895, it was
among other things provided: "The city council will grant
permission to any company, corporation, partnership or individual to place its wires and electrical conductors in conduit
under the surface of said streets of the city; any such individual, partnership, corporation or company desiring such
permission shall petition to the council therefor; such petition
shall name the streets, alleys and the side and portions thereof
to be used and occupied by such conduits, and shall submit
maps, plans and details thereof to accompany such petition."
The bill contains additional allegations to the effectThat the fifth section of the ordinance of 1881 was null

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and void; that the ordinances referred to were unreasonable,
,ultravires, and unconstitutional; that the plaintiff was entitled, "independent of and superior to the consent of the city

of Richmond," to "construct, maintain and operate" its lines
Cover and along" the streets of that city; that telephone
companies and their business were embraced by the terms of
the act of Congress, and that, in fact, telephone and telegraph
companies were, for the purposes embraced by that act, one
and the same; that the post roads spoken of in the act were
not lixmited to routes on the public domain, but embraced all
post roads of the United States that had been or might hereafter be declared such by Congress; that the streets and alleys
of the defendant being post roads, the plaintiff had the right
under the act of Congress "to occupy the streets and alleys
of the city of Richmond for its purposes, guaranteed to it by
the Constitution and laws of the United States, superior to
-anypower in the said cit to preveni it rom so doing;" and
that it "claims not only the right to maintain its present poles
'and wires along the streets and alleys now occupied by it,
but to extend them to other streets and alleys as its business
and the business interests of the country and its patrons may
require."
The city demurred to the bill of complaint, but the demurrer
was overruled. 78 Fed. Rep. 858.
An answer was then filed which met the material allegations of the bill and the cause was heard upon the merits.
In the Circuit Court a final decree was entered in accordance with the prayer of the bill, as follows: "The court,
without passing on the rights claimed by the complainant
company under the laws of Virginia and the ordinances of the
city of Richmond, is of opinion and doth adjudge, order and
decree, that the complainant company has, in accordance with
the terms and provisions and under the protection of the act
of Congress of the United States approved Iuly 24, 1866
(which is an authority paramount and superior to any state
law or city ordinance in conflict therewith), the right 'to construct, maintain and operate its lines over and along' the
streets and alleys of the city of Richmond, both those now

RIOHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

769

Opinion of the Court.

occupied by the complainant company and those not now so
occupied, and to put up, renew, replace and repair its lines,
poles and wires over and along said streets and alleys, as well
as to maintain, construct and operate the same, and to connect
its lines with new subscribers along said streets and alleys,
and the said city of Richmond, its agents, officers and all
others are enjoined and restrained from cutting, removing or
in any way injuring said lines, poles and wires of the complainant company, and from preventing or interfering with
the exercise of the aforesaid rights by the complainant company, and also from taking proceedings to inflict and enforce
fines and penalties on said company for exercising its said
rights. And the court doth adjudge, order and decree that
the defendant do pay to the complainant its costs in this suit
incurred to be taxed by the clerk, and this cause is ordered
to be removed from the docket and placed among the ended
causes, but with liberty to either party hereto on ten days'
notice to the other to reinstate this cause on the docket of this
court, on motion, for the purpose of enforcing and specifically
defining, should it become necessary, their respective rights
under this decree."
The city asked 'that the decree be modified by inserting
therein after the words "construct and operate the same," the
following words: "so far as to receive from and deliver to
the Western Union Telegraph Company messages sent from
beyond the limits of the State of Virginia, or to be sent beyond the said limits; ", and by inserting therein after the
words, "interfering with the exercise of the aforesaid rights
by the complainant company," the following words: "so far as
the reception from and delivery to the Western Union Telegraph Company of any message sent from beyond the limits
of the State of Virginia, or to be sent beyond said limits."
But counsel for complainant objected, and the court (using
the language of its order) "intending by said injunction to
enjoin the city from interfering with the local business and
messages, as well as those of an interstate character," refused
to so modify the decree.
Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals it was held
VOL. CLxXIV-49

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiff came within the protection and was entitled
to the privileges of the act of Congress of July 24, 1866;
and that under that act it had the right to construct, mainfain and operate lines of telegraph over and along any of the
post roads of the United States, and "when an effort is made,
or threatened, to deal with it as a trespasser, it can refer to
that act."
The Circuit Court of Appeals also held that the privileges
so granted were to be enjoyed in subordination to public and
private rights, and that the municipality could establish lawful provisions regulating the use of the highways mentioned
in the act of Congress. "This being so," that court said,
"the injunction granted by the Circuit Court is too broad
in its language and "effect. There should have been the
recognition of a proper exercise of the police power by the
municipal corporation, and the use by the complainant of
its poles and lines should have been declared to be subject
to such regulations and restrictions as may now or may be
hereafter imposed by the city council of Richmond, in. the
proper and lawful exercise of the police power." 42 U. S.
App. 686, 697, 698.
The decree of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the
cause was remanded to that court with instructions to modify
the terms of the injunction therein granted so as to conform
to the principles declared in the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Judge Brawley concurred in the result, but was
not inclined to assent to so much of the opinion as held that
.atelephone company, such as was described in this case, and
whose business was local in character, was within the purview of the act of Congress of July 14, 1866, relating to
telegraph companies.
The case is now before this court upon writ of certiorari.
The plaintiff's bill, as we have seen, proceeded upon the
broad ground that it is entitled, in virtue of the act of Congress of 1866, to occupy the streets of Richmond with its
lines without the consent, indeed against the will, of the
municipal authorities of that city. That, it would seem, is
the ground upon which the decree of the Circuit Court rests;

RICHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

771

Opinion of the Court.

for it was declared by that court that the plaintiff had the
right, under the provisions and protection of that act, to
construct, maintain and operate its lines over and along the
streets and alleys of Richmond, both those then occupied by
the plaintiff company and those not then so occupied, and
to put up, renew, replace and repair its lines, poles and wires
over and along such streets and alleys, and to maintain, construct and operate the same, as well as to connect its lines
with the new subscribers along the streets and alleys of the
city.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while holding that the
plaintiff was entitled to avail itself of the provisions of the
act of 1866-a question to be presently considered-adjudged that the rights and privileges granted by that act
were to be enjoyed in subordination to public use and private
rights, and subject to any lawful exercise of the police power
belonging to the State or to one 'of its municipalities. This
was in accordance with what this court bad adjudged to be
the scope and effect of the act of 1866.
In lWestern Unio= Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts,125 U. S.
530, 548, it was held that the act of 1866 was a "permissive"
statute, and that "it never could have been intended by the
Congress of the United States, in conferring upon -a corporation of one State the authority to enter the territory of
any other State and erect its poles and lines therein, to establish the proposition that such a company owed no obedience
to the laws of the State into which it thus entered, and was
under no obligation to pay its fair proportion of the taxes
necessary to its support."
In St. Zouis v. lfestern Union Telegrap)h Co., 148 U. S.92,
100, which involved the question whether a corporation proceeding under the act of 1866 could occupy the public streets
of a city without making such compensation as was reasonably required, it was said to be a misconception to suppose
that the franchise or privilege granted by the act of 1866
carried "With it the unrestricted right to appropriate the
public property of a State. It is like any other franchise,
to be exercised in subordination to public as to private rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

While a grant from one government may supersede and
abridge franchises and rights held at the will of its grantor,
it cannot abridge any property rights of a public character
created by the authority of another sovereignty. No one
would suppose that a franchise from the Federal Government
to a corporation, state or national, to construct, interstate
roads or lines of travel, transportation or communication,
would authoiize it to enter upon the private property of an
individual, and appropriate it without compensation. No
matter how broad and comprehensive might be the terms
in which the franchise was granted, it would be confessedly
subordinate to the right of the individual not to be deprived
of his property without just compensation. And the principle is the same when, under the grant of franchise from
the National Government, a corporation assumes to enter
upon property of a public nature belonging to a State. It
would not be claimed, for instance, that under a franchise
from Congress to construct and operate an interstate railroad the grantee thereof could enter upon the State-house
grounds of the State, and construct its depot there, without
paying the value of the property thus appropriated. Although the State-house grounds be property devoted to public uses, it is property devoted to the public uses of the State,
and property whose ownership and control are in the State,
and it is not within the competency of the National Government to dispossess the State of such control and use or appropriate the same to its own benefit or the benefit of any
of its corporations or grantees, without suitable compensation
to the State. This rule extends to streets and highways;
they are the public property of the State. While for the
purposes of travel and common use they are open to the
citizens of every State alike, and no State can by its legislation deprive a citizen of another State of such common use,
yet when an appropriation of any part of this public property
to an exclusive use is sought, whether by a citizen or a corporation of the same or another State, or a corporation of
the National Government, it is within the competency of the
State, representing the sovereignty of that local public, to

RICHAIOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE .CO.

773

Opinion of the Court.

exact for its benefit compensation for this exclusive appropriation. It matters not for what the exclusive appropriation
is taken, whether for steam railroads or for street railroads,
telegraphs or telephones, the State may if it chooses exact
from the party or corporation given such exclusive use pecuniary compensation to the general public for being deprived
of the common use of the portion thus appropriated."
But independently of any question as to the extent of the
authority granted to "telegraph" companies by-the act of
1866, we are of opinion that the courts below erred in holding
that the plaintiff, in respect of the particular business it was
conducting, could invoke the protection of that act. The
plaintiff's charter, it is true, describes it as a telephone and
telegraph company. Still, as disclosed by the bill and the
evidence in the cause, the business in which it was engaged
and for the protection of which against hostile local action it
invoked the aid of the Federal court, was the business transacted by using what is commonly called a "telephone," which
is described in an agreement between the Western Union Telegraph Company and the National Bell Telephone Company,
in 1879, as "an instrument for electrically transmitting or,
receiving articulate 8seech."
Our attention is called to several adjudged cases in some of
which it was said that communication by telephone was communication by telegraph. Attorney General v. Edison Telephone Co., L. R. 6 Q. B. D. 244, 255; Chesa peake & Potomac
Telephone Co. v. B. & 0. Telegraph- Co., 66 Maryjand, 399;
Wisconsin Telephone Co. v. City of Oshkosh, 62 Wisconsin, 32;
Duke v. Central _Vrew Jersey Telephone Co., 53 .N. J. L. 341;
Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Co. v. United Electric
R7ailway Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 273. Upon. the authority of those
cases it is contended that the act of Congress should be construed as embracing both telephone and telegraph companies.
The English case was an information filed for the purpose
of' testing the question whether the use of certain apparatus
was an infringement of the exclusive privilege given to the
Postmaster General by certain acts of Parliament as to the
transmission of "telegrams." -The court held that the Post-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

master General was entitled, looking at the manifest objects
of those acts and under a reasonable interpretation of their
words, to the exclusive privilege of transmitting messages or
other communications by any wire and apparatus connected
therewith used for telegraphic communication, or by any other
apparatus for communicating information by the action of
electricity upon wires. The Maryland case involved the question whether a company organized under a general incorporation law of Maryland was authorized to do a general telephone
business. In the Wisconsin case some observations were made
touching the question whether telephone companies, although
not specifically mentioned in a certain general law of that
State, could be incorporated with the powers given to telegraph companies by that statute, which, as the report of the
case shows, authorized the formation of corporations for the
purpose of building and operating telegraph lines or conducting the business of telegraphing in any way, "or for any lawful business or purpose whatever." The New Jersey case involved the question whether a company organized under the
act of that State to incorporate and regulate telegraph companies was entitled to operate and condemn a route for a telephone line. The last case involved the rights of a telephone
company under statutes of Tennessee, one of which related in
terms to telegraph companies, and the other authorized foreign
and domestic corporations to construct, operate and maintain
such telegraph, telephone and other lines necessary for the
speedy transmission of intelligence along and over the public
ways and streets of the cities and towns of that State. It was
held in that case that a telephone company under its right to
construct and operate a telegraph was empowered by statute to
establish a telephone service. None of those cases involved a
construction of the act of Congress; and the general language
employed in some of them cannot be regarded as decisive in
respect of. the scope and effect of that act, however pertinent
it may have been as to the meaning of the particular statutes
under examination.
It may be that the public policy intended to be promoted
by the act of Congress of 1866 would suggest the granting to

RICHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

775

Opinion of the Court.

telephone companies of the rights and privileges accorded to
telegraph companies. And it may be that if the telephone
had been known and in use when that act was passed, Congress would have embraced in its provisions companies employing instruments for electrically transmitting articulate
speech. But the question is, not what. Congress might have
done in 1866 nor what it may or ought now to do, but
what was in its mind when enacting the statute in question.
Nothing was then distinctly known of any deVice by which
articulate speech could be electrically transmitted or received
between different points, more or less distant from each other,
nor of companies organized for transmitting messages in that
mode. BelPs invention was not made public until 1876. Of
the different modes nosy employed to electrically transmit
messages between distant points, Congress in 1866 knew only
of the invention then and now popularly called the telegraph.
When therefore the act of 1866 speaks of telegraph companies,
it could have meant only such companies as employed the
means then used or embraced by existing inventions for the
purpose of transmitting messages merely by sounds of instruments and by signs or writings.
In 1887 the Postmaster General submitted to the Attorney
General the question whether a telephone company or line,
offering to accept the conditions prescribed in Title LXV of
the Revised Statutes (being the act of 1866), could obtain
the privileges therein specified. Attoriley General Garland
replied: "The subject of Title LXV of Revised Statutes is
telegraphs. In all its sections the words 'telegraph,' 'telegraph company ' and ' telegram ' define and limit the subject
of the legislation. When the law was made, the electric
telegraph, as distinguished from the older forms, was what
the lawmakers had in view. The electric telegraph, when
the law was made, as to the general public, transmitted only
written communications. Its mode bf conduct is yet substantially the same. This transmission of written messages
is closely analogous to the United States mail service. Hence
the acceptance of the provisions of the law by the telegraph
company was required to be filed with the Postmaster Gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

eral, who has charge of the mail service. Under the several
sections embraced in the Title, in consideration of the right
of way and the grant of the right to preempt 40 acres of land
for stations at intervals of not less than 15 miles, certain privileges as to priority of right over the line, also the right to
purchase, with power to annually fix the rate of compensation, were secured to the Government. Governmental communications to all distant points are almost all, if not all, in
writing. The useful Government privileges which formed an
important element in the legislation would be entirely inappli,cable to telephone lines, by which oral communications only
are transmitted. A purchase of a telephone line certainly
was not in the mind of the lawmakers. In common and
technical language alike, telegraphy and telephony have different significations. Neither includes all of the other. The
science of telephony as now understood was little known as
to practical utility in 1866, when the greater part of the law
contained in the Title was passed. Telephone companies
therefore are not within the 'category of the grantees of
the privileges conferred by the statute.' If similar privileges
ought to be granted to-telephone companies, such a grant
would come within the scope of legislative rather than administrative power." 19 Opinions Attorney General, 37.
It is not the function of the judiciary, because of discoveries
after the act of 1866, to broaden the provisions of that act so
that it will include corporations or companies that were not,
and could not have been at that time, within the contemplation of Congress. If the act be construed as embracing telephone companies, numerous questions are readily suggested.
May a telephone conpany, of right, and without reference to
the will of the States, construct anid maintain its wires in
the territory in which it does. business? May
every city in.
the constituted authorities of a city permit the occupancy only
of certain streets for the business of the company? May the
company, of right, fill every street and alley in every city or
town in the country with poles on which its wires are strung,
or may the local authorities forbid the erection of any poles at
all.? May a company run wires into every house in a city, as

RICHMOND v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.

777

Opinion of the Court.

the owner or occupant may desire, or may the local authorities
limit the number of wires that may be constructed and used
within its limits? These and other questions that will occur
to every one indicate the confusion that may arise if the act
of Congress, relating only to telegraph companies, be so construed as to subject to national control the use and occupancy
of the streets of cities and towns by telephone companies, subject only to the reasonable exercise of the police powers of the
State. But even if it were conceded that no such confusion
would probably arise, it is clear that the courts should not
construe an act of Congress relating in terms only to "telegraph" companies as intended to confer upon companies
engaged in telephone business any special rights in the streets
of cities and towns of the country, unless such intention has
been clearly manifested. We do not think that any such
intention has 'been so"manifested. The conclusion that the
act of 1866 confers upon telephone companies the valuable
rights and, privileges therein specified is not authorized by
any explicit language used by Congress, and can be justified
by implication only. But we are unwilling to rest the construction of an'imporiant act of Congress upon implication
merely; particularl r if that construction might tend to narrow the full coiatrol always exercised by the local authorities
of the States over streets and alleys within their respective
jurisdictions. If, Congress desires to extend the provisions of
the act of 1866 to companies engaged in the business of electrically transmitting articulate speech - that is, to companies
popularly known as telephone companies, and never otherwise designated in common speech-let it do so in plain
words. It will be time enough when such legislation is enacted to consider any questions of constitutional law that
may be suggested by it.
Something was said in argument as to the power of Congress to control the use of streets in the towns and cities of
the country. Upon that question it is not necessary to express any opinion. We now adjudge only that the act of
1866, and the sections of the Revised Statutes in which the
provisions of that act have been preserved, have no applica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

tion to telephone companies whose business is that of electrically transmitting articulate speech between different points.
What rights the appellee had or has under the laws of Virginia and the ordinances of the city of Richmond is a question
which the Circuit Court did not decide, but expressly waived.
It is appropriate that that question should first be considered
and determined by the court of original jurisdiction.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals so far as it
reverses the decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed, and
the cause is remanded with directionsfor such further
proceedings in the Circuit Court as may be in conformity
with the principles of this opinion and consistent with
law. it is so ordered.

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
"PEAL

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Ho. 19. Arguied April 20,1898. -Decided

May 22, 1899.

Under the act of July 28, 1892, c. 313, conferring jurisdiction on the Court
of Claims "to hear and determine what are the just rights in law" of
the daughter and heir of Hugh Worthington to compensation for his in-terest in a steamboat taken and converted into a gunboat by the United
States during the war of the rebellion, and, if it "shall find that said
claim is just," to render judgment in her favor for the sum found due,
the issue to be determined depends upon the question what had been his
legal right to such compensation, embracing all questions, of law or of
fact, affecting the merits of the claim.
Whether the capture of a steamboat on the western waters within the lines
of the Confederate forces in February, 1862, by part of the naval forces
of the United States on those waters, commanded by officers of the Navy,
and under the general control of the War Department, but no land forces
being near the scene of the capture or taking any active part therein,
was a capture by the Army - qucere.
A libel for the condemnation, under the act of August 6, 1861, c. 60, of a
steamboat captured and taken into firm possession by naval forces of the
United States on the western waters during the war of the rebellioii, was
Med by the district attorney in the District Court of the United States
for a district into which she had been brought; the libel alleged that she

