ISRAEL v. GALE. -9

391"

Opinion of the Court.

Certainly if on a further trial the proof should establish that
ihe deficiency of supply at the reservation arose not from the
drawing off by the defendant of water covered by his water
rigoht, but from the act of those who, subsequent to the loca.
tion of the defendant's asserted water right, tapped the sources
of the supply of the stream and carried the water to the reservation whence it was distributed to Boise City, a very different condition of fact from that stated in the complaint would
be presented. It follows, from these conclusions, that the
judgment below was not final, and the appeal taken therefrom must be, and is,
_Dismissedfor wat ofjurisdiction.

ISRAEL v. GALE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUrr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECMOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 265. Argued April 25, 26, 1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

In this case the trial court at the close of the testimony, which is detailed
in the opinion of this court, instructed a verdict in plaintiff's favor, which

was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
of the Court of Appeals.

This court affirms the judgment

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Frank Sullivan Smith for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. 3Iartin Carey for defendant in error. -Mr. Wil8on S.
Bsiell was on his brief.
_.

JUSTicE

WHrrE delivered the opinion of the court.

The receiver of the Elmira National Bank, duly appointed
by the Comptroller of the Currency, sued George X. Israel,
the plaintiff in error, on a promissory note for $17,00), dated
New York, May 14, 1893, due on demand, and drawn by Israel
to the order of the Elmira National Bank, and payable at that
bank. The defences to the action were in substance these:
First. That the note had been placed by Israel, the maker,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in the hands of David C. Robinson, without any consideration, for a particular purpose, and that if it had been discounted
by Robinson at the Elmira National Bank such action on his
part constituted a diversion from the purposes for which the
note had been drawn and delivered; that from the form of
the note (its being made payable to the bank), from the official
connection of Robinson with the bank, he being one of the
directors, and his personal relations with the cashier of the
bank, as well-as from many other circumstances which it is unnecessary to detail, the bank was charged with such notice as
to the diversion of the note by Robinson as prevented the bank
from being protected as an innocent third holder for value.
Second. Even if the discount of the note was not a diversion thereof from the purpose contemplated by the drawer,
the bank was nevertheless subject to the equity arising from
the want of consideration between Israel, the drawer, -and
Robinson, because, although the note may have been in form
discounted by the bank, it had in reality only been taken by
the bank for an antecedent debt due it by Robinson. And
from this it is asserted that as the bank had not parted, on
the faith of the note, with any actual consideration, it was not
a holder for value, and was subject to the equitable defences
existing between the original persons.
At the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the note, the
signature and the discount thereof being in effect admitted,
and then rested its case. The defendant thereupon offered
testimony which it was'deemed tended to sustain his defences.
At the close of the testimony the court, over the defendant's
exception, instructed a. verdict in favor of the plaintiff. On
error to the Court of Appeals this action of the trial court was
affirmed.
Both the assignments of error and the argument at bar but
reiterate and expand in divers forms the defences above stated
and which it is asserted were supported by evidence competent to go to the jury, if the trial court had not prevented its
consideration by the peremptory instruction which it gave.
The bill of'exceptions contains the testimony offered at the
trial, and the sole question which arises is, Did the court

ISRAEL v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

rightly instruct a verdict for the plaintiff ? From the evidence
it undoubtedly resulted that the note was delivered by the
maker to D. C. Robinson, by whom it was discounted at the
Elmira National Bank. It also established that Robinson at
the time of the discount was a director of the bank, had large
and frequent dealings with it, that he bore close business and
personal relations with the cashier, and occupied a position of
confidence with the other officers and directors of the bank.
The occasion for the giving of the note and the circumstances
attending. the same are thus shown by the testimony of the
defendant:
"I reside in Brooklyn. I am 42 years of age. I am at
present engaged in the insurance business. In the months of
April and May, 1893, I was employed in the banking house of
I. B'Newcomb & Co., in Wall street, New York, as a stenographer and typewriter. I was not then and am not now a
man of property. -Iknow D. 0. Robinson. At the time I
made this note I did not receive any valuable thing or other
consideration for the making of it; 1 have never received any
consideration for the making of the note. I had a conversation with D. C. Robinson at the time of the making of the
note. He stated to me the object or purpose for which he
desired the note. He said to me that he desired some accommodation notes, and he wanted us clerks to make them, and
stated the amount. He said that the reason he wanted the
accommodation note was that he had exceeded his line of
discount and could not get any more accommodation; that he
was building a power house up there (in Elmira) and needed
some money to accomplish that purpose, and that if we wouldgive him these notes it would enable him to accomplish that.
He also added that we would not be put in any position of
paying them at any time; that he would take care of them,
and gave us positive assurance on that point, and naturally
knowing the man, and thinking that he was a millionnaire,
as he probably was at that time, we had no hesitation about
going on the notes."
There was no testimony tending to refute these statements
or in any way calculated to enlarge or to restrict them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The defence, then, amounts to this: That the form of the
paper and Robinson's relation with the bank and its officers
were such as to bring home to the bank the knowledge of the
transaction from which the note arose, and that such knowledge prevents a recovery, because Robinson, taking the transaction to be exactly as testified to by the defendant, was
without authority to discount the note. Granting, argu7endo,
that the testimony tended to show such a condition of fact as
to bring home to the bank a knowledge of the transaction, the
contention rests upon a fallacy, since it assumes that the note
was not given to Robinson to be discounted, and that his so
using it amounted to a diversion from the purpose for which
it was delivered to him. But this is in plain conflict with the
avowed object for which the defendant testified the note was
drswn and delivered, since he swore that he furnished the note
because he was told by Robinson that he needed accQmmodation,
that his line of discount on his own paper had been exceeded
and that if he could get the paper, of the defendant, he would
overcome this obstacle; in other words, that he would be able
successfully to discount the paper of another person when he
could not further discount his own. This obvious import of
the testimony is fortffied, if not conclusively proven by the
-form of the note itself, which, instead of being made to the
order of Robinson, was to the order of the Elmira National
Bank. The premise then, upon which it is argued that there
was proof tending to show that the discount of the note by
Robinson at the Elmira National Bank was a diversion, is
without foundation in fact. The only matters relied on to
sustain the proposition that there was testimony tending to
establish that the note was diverted, because it was discounted
at the bank to whose order it was payable, are unwarranted
inferences drawn from a portion of the conversation, above
quoted, which the defendant states he had with Robinson
when the note waa drawn and delivered. The part of the
conversation thus relied upon is the statement that Robinson
said, when the note was given, "that he was building a power
house up there (in Elmira) and needed some money to accomplish that purpose, and if we would give him these notes it

ISRAEL v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

would enable him to accomplish that." This it is said tended
to show that the agreement on Which the n6te -was given
was not that it should be discounted at the Elmira National
Bank, but that it should be used by Robinson for obtaining
money to build the power house. In other words, the assertion is that the mdre statement, by Robinson, of the causes
which rendered it necessary for him to obtain a note to be
discounted at the Elmira National Bank had the effect of
destroying the very purpose for which the note was confessedly given. When the real result of the contention is apprehended its unsoundness is at once demonstrated: Other
portions of the record have been referred to, in argument,
as tending to show that it could not have been the intention
of the defendant, in giving the note, that Robinson should
discount it, but on examining the matters, thus relied upon,
we find they have no tendencr whatever to contradict or
change the plain result of the transaction as shown by the
defendant's own testimony.
As the discount of the note at the Elmira National Bank
was not a diversion, but on the contrary was a mere fulfilment of the avowed object for which the note was' asked and
to consummate which it was delivered, it becomes irrelevant to
consider the various circumstances which it is asserted tended
to impute knowledge to the bank of the purpose for which
the note was made and delivered. If the agreement author- ized the discount of the note, it is impossible to c6ficeive that
knowledge of the agreement could have caused the discount
to be a diversion, and that the mere knowledge that paper
has been drawn for accommodation does not prevent one
who has taken it for value from recovering thereon, is too
elementary to require citation of authority.
The contention that although it be conceded the note was
not diverted by its discount, nevertheless the bank could not
recover thereon because it took the note for an antecedent
debt, hence without actual consideration, depends, first, upon
a proposition of fact, that is, that there was testimony tending
to so show, and, second, upon the legal assumption that even
if there was such testimony it was adequate as a legal defence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The latter proposition it is wholly unnecessary to consider,
because the first is unsupported by the record. All the. testimony, on the subject of the discount of the note, was introduced by the defendant in his effort to make out his defence.
It was shown, without contradiction, that the note had been
discounted by Robinson at the bank, and that the proceeds
were placed to his credit in account. It was also shown that
for some time prior to the day of the discount his, account
'with the bank, to the credit of which the proceeds of the discount were placed, was overdrawn. The exact state of the
account on the day the discount was made was stated by the
cashier and a bookkeeper of the bank, and was moreover referred to by Robinson. On the morning of the discount the
debit to the account of Robinson, by way of overdraft, is fixed
by the cashier at $35,400, and by the bookkeeper at $35,000.
Robinson made the following statement: "The amount of
other notes wiped out the overdraft and made a balance."
The bookkeeper's statement is as follows:
"There was an overdraft of $35,000 against Mr. Robinson
upon the hooks of the bank on the morning of May the
4th. There were items coming through the exchanges that
amounted to about $3,000, and there was a deposit made.of
$33,000 to make the overdraft good. These were to take up
the items that came through the exchanges. I think that
was the way of it. His account would have been overdrawn
that night for about $50,000 if it had not been for the entry
on the books of the proceeds of these notes."
No other testimony tending to contradict these statements,
made by the defendant's own witnesses, is contained in the
record. They manifestly show that although at the date of
the discount there was a debit to th6 account resulting from
an overdraft that nearly the sum of the overdraft was covered
by items of credit, irrespective of the note in controversy, and
that subsequent to the credit arising from the note more than
the entire sum of the discount was paid out for the account
of Robinson, to whose credit the proceeds had been placed.
.With these uncontradicted facts in mind, proven by the testimony offered by the defendant, and with no testimony tending

McDONALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Statement of the Case.

the other way, it is obviously unnecessary to go further and
point out the unsoundness of the legal contention relied upon.
Affirmed.

McDONALD, Receiver, v, WILLIAMS. 1
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued April 21,1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

The receiver of a national bank cannot recover a dividend paid to a stockholder not at all out of profits, but entirely out of capital, when the
stockholder receiving such dividend acted in good faith, believing the
same to be paid out of profits, and when the bank, at the time such dividend was declared and paid, was no' insolvent.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York. It was brought
by the plaintiff, as receiver of the Capital National Bank of
Lincoln, Nebraska, for the purpose of recovering from the defefdants, who were stockholders in the bank, the amount of
certain dividends received by them before the appointment of
a receiver.
Upon the trial of the case the Circuit Court decreed in fayor
of the plaintiff for the recovery of a certain amount. The defendants appealed from the decree, because it was not in their
favor, and the plaintiff appealed from it, because the recovery
provided for in the decree was not as much as he claimed to
be entitled to. Upon the argument of the appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals certain questions of law were presented
as to which that court desired the instruction of this court for
their proper decision.
It appears from the statement of facts made by the court
that the bank suspended payment in January, 1893, in a condition of hopeless insolvency, the stockholders, including the
I The docket title of this case is Hayden, Receiver, v.,Williams.

