UNITED STATES, v. KRALL.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. KRALL.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUrr COURT

OF

.APPEALS FOR THE

NrTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 216. Argued and submitted April 8,1899. -Decided.IMay

15, 1899.

On its face the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case is not a
final judgment, and the appeal must therefore be dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.Char es . Ru88e1 for appellants.
eral was on his brief.

-Mr. So1ioitor Gen-

-Mr.Edgar Wilson for appellee.
MR.

JusriCE WHIr

delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States alleged in its bill substantially as follows:
That in July, 1864, in Boise County, Territory of Idaho,*
(now Ada County, State of Idaho,) a tract of land was duly set
aside as a military reservation for the establishment of a military post, and that the reservation was subsequently occupied
as such post and so continued to be used by the Government
of the United States, for the purpose in question, up to the
time when the bill was filed. It was alleged, moreover, that
flowing across the reservation vas a stream of water known
as Cottonwood Creek, which was non-navigable, but which
afforded "an ample supply for the agricultural, domestic and
practical purposes of the officers and troops of said military
post, and no more, and that said streami of water, together
with all the uses and privileges aforesaid, belong.to and are the
property of plaintiffs; and that from the time of the occupancy
and location of said post, to wit, the month of July, A.D.
1864, the waters of said stream have .beeh continually used
and appropriated, and now are used and appropriated, for all
'VOL. cLxmv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

agricultural, domestic and practical purposes by plaintiff,
through its said officers and -troops."
The bill then averred that at a point oi said stream above the
reservation the defendant, his agents and employ~s, "are now,
and have been since June, 1894, actually engaged in wrongfully and tnlawfully diverting the waters of said Cottonwood
Creek, and the whole thereof, from their natural course over
and across the premises hereinbefore described. And the said
defendant, his agents and employ6s have, since said June,
1894, been and now are actually engaged in diverting and
appropriating the waters of said stream, and the whole
thereof, and preventing and obstructing the same from flowing in its natural channel across the said military reservation,
and thereby rendering the said premises unfit for use and
occupancy as a military post."
Averring the illegality of defendant's acts in diverting the
water from the stream and that all the water flowing in its
natural course was essential for the purpose of the reservation,
the bill asserted the title of the United States to all the water
in the stream, and prayed that the defendant be enjoined from
appropriating any portion thereof for his use "as aforesaid."
In his answer the defendant denied that the water drawn off
by him deprived the reservation of water necessary for any of
its purposes, and on the contrary charged that there was sufficient water in the stream to meet the demands not only of the
water right, which he asserted was vested in him, but also to
supply every demand for water, which the reservation. might
need. He alleged that pursuant to the laws of the Territory
of Idaho, in 1877 he had located a perpetual water right for five
hundred cubic inches of water, at a point on the stream above
the place where it flowed through the reservation, and that this
location of water right was sanctioned by the laws of the United
States. It was besides averred that during the years 1894
and 1895 "one Peter Sonna, and his associates, whose names
are unknown to this defendant, without defendant's consent,
diverted a large amount of the waters of said stream from the
head waters ihereof, and above the point on said stream where
plaintiff alleges this defendant has obstructed and diverted the

UNITED STATES v. KRALL.
Opinion of the Court.

same, and led the same through pipes to a reservoir on said
military post, and that said military post, the officers and
troops thereon stationed, have used the waters so stored in
part, and have permitted large quantities thereof to pass across
said reservation and to be used by the said Peter Sonna for
mechanical and other purposes."
A stipulation was entered into between the parties containing an agreed statement of facts, which showed substantially
this: That the reservation in question was established prior to
the initiation by the defendant of his alleged water right;
that "in 1877 the defendant located for agricultural, irrigation
and other and domestic and useful purposes, 500 inches of the
waters flowing in Cottonwood Creek, and diverted them upon
the lands adjacent and in the vicinity of the easterly and
southeasterly side of the military reservation, and has continuously used, and is now using, such waters, or portions thereof,
for agricultural and irrigating purposes ever since that time
upon such lands. His lands consist of a homestead of 160
acres, a desert entry of 160 acres, and his wife's desert of
about 70 acres; he has expended between $8000 and $10,000
in the construction of necessary ditches, flumes, reservoirs,
laterals and other improvements necessary for the reclamation
of such lands, which were all desert in character, and of a
class known as 'arid lands,' incapable of producing crops of
fruit without the application of water. By means of the use
of this water and the rights claimed under such location, he
and his grantee have acquired title to said desert lands, and
have been enabled to cultivate large annual crops of farm
produce annually, and to propagate large orchards, which
without the water they could not have done."
The statement, moreover, indicated the mode in which the
reservation drew its supply of water from the stream, some of
it being taken above the point where the defendant's water
right was located, and contained the following:
"On or about the year 18941 one Peter Sonna and his associates, without the consent of the defendant, went upon the
head waters of said ' Five-Mile Gulch,' one of the main tributaries of Cottonwood Gulch, and at sundry points gathered and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

appropriated the waters of large and flowing springs there
situated, and which are supply springs of said 'Five-Mile
Gulch,' and the stream there situated, and about four miles
above the point of the defendant's diversion, and conveyed
the waters of said springs by means of pipes and mains, the
,latter being commonly known as '2-inch pipe,' down the
mountains to the reservoir before mentioned as located above
the officers' quarters on the reservation. The reservoir has a
capacity of about 570,000 gallons. The waters so gathered
and conducted were and now are stored in said reservoir,
and distributed th6refrom from time to time as hereafter
shown. A portion of the waters from the springs, if not
diverted, would eventually flow into Cottonwood Creek above
defendant's point of diversion.
"The waters stored in the Sonna reservoir aforesaid are used
for fire purposes only on the reservation, and are also conveyed through mains about three-quarters of a mile into Boise
City, where they are used in the unning of a passenger'elevator in one of the largest office buildings of the city, for drinking and closet purposes therein, and for domestic [uses] in
several city residences, and, in case of danger, for fire purposes,
through hydrants located along the line of said maih."
The lower court concluded that as the stream was not navigable and 'was wholly on the public domain, the defendant
had no right to appropriate any of the waters as against the
United States, and therefore enjoined the taking by him of
any water, from the stream, above the reservation except to
the extent that license
post. to do so might be given by the commandant of the
The Circuit Court of Appeals, to which the cause was taken,
referring to Atchiso8n v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507, 512; Basey v.
Gallagher,20 Wall. 682 ; Broder v. Water Comyany, 101 U. S.
274; and Sturr v. Beek, 133 U. S. 5-41, concluded that the
defendant had acquired a valid water right even as against
the United States, and therefore reversed the judgment of the
trial court, and remanded the cause to that court tor further
proceedings in, accordance with the views expressed in its
opinion. The opinion of the court, after stating the right of

UNITED STATES v. KRALL.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant to acquire a water privilege, on public lands, of
the United States, even as against the United States, declared
as follows:
"His [the defendant's] appropriation was, of course, subject
to the prior appropriation and use of the waters of the stream
made by the government officials for the purpose of the military post reservation, which consisted of 640 acres of land,
and was located on the stream in question below the point of
the appellant's diversion."
It is charged in the assignment of errors that the decision
of the Court of Appeals was erroneous, first, because it recognized the right of the defendant to acquire a water right as
against the United States; and, second, because it held that
the water right of the defendant, which originated after the
establishment of the reservation, could deprive the reservation
of water necessary for its purposes. This is asserted to be the
consequence of the decree, because it is argued it may be construed as depriving the Government of the right to use but
the quantity .of water which had been previously actually
appropriated for the use of the reservation, thus preventing it
from enjoying the water essential for the purposes -of the post,
and rendered necessary by its expansion and development.
To the first question the argument at bar was principally
addressed.
Before considering the assignments, however, we are met
on the threshold of the case with the question whether the
record is properly here, because of the want of finality of the
judgment rendered by the Gircuit Court of Appeals. On its
face the decree of that court is obviously not a final judgment,
since it did not dispose definitively of the issues presented, but
simply determined one of the legal questions arising on the
record, and remanded the case to the lower court for further
proceedings. When the state of the record, upon which the
Court of Appeals passed, is considered in the light of the
pleadings and agreed statement of facts, it becomes obvious
that the decree, by that court rendered, was not only not in
form, but also was not in substance a final disposition of the controversy. The cause of action alleged in the complaint was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Pourt.

diversion of water by the defendant from the stream, to the
detriment of the requirements of the reservation, by a water
right acquired by the defendant after the establishment of the
reservation. The agreed statement of facts, although it made
it unquestioned that the defendant's, asserted water right had
been located on the stream above the reservation, after its
establishment, also made it equall]r clear that after such location, above the point where the defendant's water .right was
fixed, water had been drawn off and. carried to the reservation,
and there retained in a reservoir and supplied, in part at least,
to.Boise City for purposes wholly foreign to the military post.
There was nothing whatever in the agreed statement of facts
by which it could be determined whether the amount of water
thus drawn and carried to the post and used for purposes foreign to its wants would, if used for the purposes of the post
alone, not have been entirely adequate to supply every present
or potential need. Conceding on the general question of law
that the defendant could acquire a water right, as against the
United, States, subject to the paramount and previous appropriation of the reservation, the court manifestly, from the state
of the record, was not in a position to adjudge the rights of
the parties without further proof as to exactly what would be
the situation if water had not, subsequent to the establishment of the water right of the defendant, been taken from
the sources of supply above his location and carried to the
reservation and there distributed for other than reservation
purposes. This condition of things rendered it therefore
essential to reinand the cause in order that the exact situation
might be ascertained before the rights of the parties were
finally passed upon. The fact that the decree appealed from
was not final is moreover conclusively demonstrated by considering that if on the present appeal we should conclude that
the judgment of the Court of Appeals was correct, we would
be unable to dispose of the controversy, and we would be
obliged, as did the Court of Appeals, to remand the case to
the trial court for further proceedings. The gravamen of the
complaint was that the alleged water right of the defendant
had deprived the reservation of water required for its purposes.

ISRAEL v. GALE. -9

391"

Opinion of the Court.

Certainly if on a further trial the proof should establish that
ihe deficiency of supply at the reservation arose not from the
drawing off by the defendant of water covered by his water
rigoht, but from the act of those who, subsequent to the loca.
tion of the defendant's asserted water right, tapped the sources
of the supply of the stream and carried the water to the reservation whence it was distributed to Boise City, a very different condition of fact from that stated in the complaint would
be presented. It follows, from these conclusions, that the
judgment below was not final, and the appeal taken therefrom must be, and is,
_Dismissedfor wat ofjurisdiction.

ISRAEL v. GALE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUrr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECMOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 265. Argued April 25, 26, 1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

In this case the trial court at the close of the testimony, which is detailed
in the opinion of this court, instructed a verdict in plaintiff's favor, which

was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
of the Court of Appeals.

This court affirms the judgment

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Frank Sullivan Smith for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. 3Iartin Carey for defendant in error. -Mr. Wil8on S.
Bsiell was on his brief.
_.

JUSTicE

WHrrE delivered the opinion of the court.

The receiver of the Elmira National Bank, duly appointed
by the Comptroller of the Currency, sued George X. Israel,
the plaintiff in error, on a promissory note for $17,00), dated
New York, May 14, 1893, due on demand, and drawn by Israel
to the order of the Elmira National Bank, and payable at that
bank. The defences to the action were in substance these:
First. That the note had been placed by Israel, the maker,

