NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

545

Opinion of the Court.

precluded from looking at it, because it is not properly a part
of the bill of exceptions, for the reasons we have given.
It follows that on the record there is nothing for our review,
and judgment is

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY.
AFFEAL FROM TEE SUPREME COUET OF THE TERErTORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 169. Resubmltted April 17, 1899. -Decded

May 15,1899.

The provision in the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, exempting from taxation
the right of way granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
does not operate to exempt the right of way when acquired from private
owners and not from the United States; and the judgment in this case
made at this term and reported on page 186 of 172 U. S., having been
made under a mistake of facts, is modified to that extent.
The assessments on the superstructures, on so much of the right of way as
was taxable, were not assessments of personal property, but were clearly
assessments of real estate; and the fact that the improvements were
designated by name, and some of them given a separate valuation, did
not Invalidate their assessment as real estate.-

THm statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. F. W. Clancy for appellant.
-Mr. C. N. Staiv-y, .A&.
lay for appellees.
M& JusTIcE

. D. .Kmnna and .Mr. Robert Dun-

McKE FA delivered the opinion of the court.

1. This case was submitted with No. 106, which was between the same parties, and on the -authority of the opinion
in that case the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory was affirmed. 172 U. S. 171, 186.
The cases were argued together, and it was supposed involved
identically the same questions dependent upon a statement of
facts which were stipulated. N6 distinction between the cases
Vol. CLXXV-85

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was indicated in the oral argument, and a reference of a few
lines in a brief of thirty-five pages was overlooked.
In the petition for rehearing our attention was called to the
fact that there is a substantial difference between the matters
involved in this cause and those arising in No. 106. The difference is this: In 106 the right of way was in Bernalillo County
through land which was public domain, whilst in this case the
right of way is in Valeicia County across the public domain
for 33 iniles only, and for 66.7 miles over land which was held
in private ownership at the time of the grant to the railroad
by the act of 1866. In other words, the railroad company
derived its right of way for 33 miles in Valencia County under
section 2 of the act of July 27, 1866, and to 66.7 miles under
the power conferred by section 7 of said apt. This difference
was not adverted to in No. 106, and we will now
I consider the
said:
effect of it. In the opinion in 106 we
"The right of way is granted to the extent of two hundred
feet on each side of the railroad, including necessary grounds
for station buildings, workshops, etc. What, then, is meant by
the phrase, ' the right of way'? A mere right of passage, says
appellant. Per contra, appellee contends that the fee was
granted, or, if not granted, that such a tangible and corporeal
property was granted, that all that was attached to it became
part of it and partook of its exemption from taxation.
"To support its contention appellant urges the technical
meaning of the phrase, ' right of way,' and claims that the primary presumption is that it was used in its technical sense.
Undoubtedly that is the presumption, but such presumption
must yield to an opposing context, and the intention of the
legislature otherwise indicated. Examining the statute we
find that whatever is granted is exactly measured as a physical thing, not as an abstract right. It is to be two hundred
feet wide and to be carefully broadened, so as to include
grounds for the superstructures indispensable to the railroad."
After further consideration of what was t granted, we also
said: "The interest granted by the statute to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company -therefore is real estate of corporeal
quality, and the principles of such apply. One of these, and

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

547

Opinion of the Court.

an elemental one, is that whatever is erected upon it becomes
part of it." And we concluded that not only the right of way
was exempt, but all its superstructures were exempt. But our
conclusion was expressly based on the terms of the statute, and
we took care to affirm the rule of construction which had been
announced many times and in many ways, that the taxing
power of the State is never presuined to be relinquished unless
the intention be expressed in terms too clear to be mistaken.
If a doubt arise as to the intention of the legislature, that doubt
must be solved against exemption from taxation.
Applying this rule to the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, the
exemption from taxation must be confined to the right of way
granted by the United States by section 2 of the act, and to
the superstructures which become a part of it, and not to the
right of way which the railroad company may have acquired
under section 7, or independently of that section. -Section 1
creates the corporation and authorizes it to construct and maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph line from and to cer-.
tain points, and invests the company with the powers, privileges
and immunities necessary to effect that purpose. Section 2
provides: "That the right of way through the public lands
be, and the same is hereby granted, to the said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company
.
.
for the construction of
a railroad and telegraph line as proposed. . . . Said way
is granted to said railroad to the extent of one hundred feet
in width on each side of said railroad where it may pass
through the public domain,
and the right of way
shall be exempt from taxation within the Territories of the
United States." 14 Stat. 292.
The right of way which is granted and the right of way
which is exempt from taxation is precisely identified by the
natural and first meaning of the words used and their relations. It would require an exercise of construction to extend
the exemption, and even if there are reasons for it, there
are certainly reasons against it, and in such conflict the rule
requires that the latter shall prevail.
2. It is contended by the appellee that the assessment, was
invalid because the laws of the Territory required the assess-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the right of way and its superstructures to be made
as an entirety.
The contention is technical. It is not complained that the
valuation of the superstructures was excessive, but that they
were assessed as personal property, and hence invalidly
assessed, because by the laws of the Territory the term "real
estate" includes lands to which title has been acquired and
improvements, and the term "improvements" includes all
buildings, structures, fixtures and fences erected upon or fixed
to land, whether title has been acquired or.not.
The record does not afford the means of judging of the
contention as clearly as might be wished, but we think it is
not tenable.
The intervening petition, which is the basis of the proceedings, proceeds upon the ground that omissions were made in
assessments of property to the railroad company for a series
of years beginning with the year 1892 and ending with 1896,
and that additions were made of said property under the laws
of the Territory for said years. The valuation of the property
and the taxes levied against it are stated, and a description of
the property is attached.
It is alleged that the receiver of the company refuses payment because he claims that the property is exempt from taxation under the act of July, 1866 ; but it is also alleged "that
the said exemption from taxation extends only to the right
of way granted to said railroad company on each side of its
railroad where it may pass through the public domain, and
does not extend to any improvements made upon the right of
way, nor to the said right of way itself where it passes through
]aud not included in the public domain."
It is prayed that "the said taxes, so levied as aforesaid,"
be declared a lien on the property in the hands of the receiver,
and that he be ordered "to pay the said taxes." General relief is also prayed.
To the petition of intervention the receiver submitted pleas
respectively to the claim of taxes for each of the years. The
pleas were substantially alike, and alleged the assessment of
the company's property for each of the years, with a descrip-

NEW MXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

549

Opinion of the Court.

tion or designation of -it, the value at which it was assessed,
and the taxes levied against it and the amounts of taxes paid
by the company.
In the first plea it is alleged that the company through its
officers made a return to the county assessor of its property
situated in the county, and a copy of the return is attached
and made part of the plea. Discriminating the property upon
which the taxes were paid and that in the return of the company and assessed, the plea alleges:
"That the other property returned by the taxing officers of
said railroad company for said year was and is the property
upon which the taxes are paid as above stated, and as 'shown
by Receiver's Exhibits 3 and 4.
"That the only pretended or claimed levy of taxes against
any property of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
for the said year, remaining, unpaid, is that shown to have
been extended and levied upon the ' right of way ' of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, which was and is assessed
at the lump sum of $327,103, upon the assessment roll for said
year, together with the further sums placed in said assessment
roll in the colunin'headed 'Value of cattle,' opposite the words
contained in the column in said assessment roll headed 'Name
of property owners,' save and except as hereinafter stated.
"The names and sums referred to are as follows:
Rio Puerco, 1st ........................
............
El Rito, 3d ..............
...............
Laguna, 4th ...........
Cubero, 6th ...........................
McCarty's, 7th .........................
Grants, 8th ............................
Blue Water, 9th .......................
: .........
San Jose, 2d ................

$1888
541
-677
2145
682
1383
: 3150
1316

00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00

"All of which is shown by the said assessment and levy of
taxes upon said assessment roll, as will fully appear by reference to said Receiver's Exhibits No. 1 and No. 2, and the indorsements thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"That prior to the first day of January, 1894, the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company paid each and every item of
taxes assessed and levied against it or its property in said
Valencia County, Territory of New Mexico, save and except
only that levied against the assessed value of its ' right of way,'
and that levied against the figures set opposite the names of
the stations as hereinabove set forth and described."
The right of way, therefore, was assessed in 1892; and whatever taxes were due on it or any part of it were left delinquent.
As to the other years the record is not much less definite.
It appears that the right of way was assessed and the taxes
levied against it were not paid. In all the pleas there is a
careful allegation of payment of the taxes which were conceded to be valid, and as careful a one that the company refused "to pay the balance of the taxes because of the fact that
the assessment as made by the assessor was an assessment of
the right of way and station grounds of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad, which were and are exempt under the act of Congress creating said railroad company." It is manifest that the
right of way was assessed and the taxes were delinquent.. In
what manner were the additional assessments made? It is
shown in the exhibit to the intervening petition. We select
the assessment for 1892. The assessments for the other years
are the same, the amounts only being different to a small extent.
"The following was omitted in the assessment of the year
1892, and was not put upon the assessor's book, and is now,
in accordance with the provisions of sections 2817 and 2848,
here listed, valued and assessed by the collector:
The cross ties, rails, fish plates, bolts, spikes, bridges, culverts,
telegraph line and other structures erected upon the right of
way of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in the
county of Valencia, and constituting ' improvements' upon the
land embraced within said right of way where same runs over
what was public domain of the United States when said right
of way was granted to said company, 33 miles in.length, valued
at $6500 per mile .............................. $211,500

NTEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

551

Opinion of the Court.

Also the cross ties, rails, fish plates, bolts, spikes, bridges,
culverts, telegraph line and other structures erected upon the
right of way of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in
said county of Valencia, and constituting I improvements ' upon
the land embraced within said right of way where it runs over
land which was held in private ownership at the time of the
grant of said right of way to said railroad company, 60.7 miles,
valued at $6500 per mile .........................
$394550
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
other improvements at Rio Puerco station ....... $1,800
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
540
other improvements at San Jose station .........
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
600
other improvements at El Rito station ..........
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
2,100
. other improvements at La Guna station .........
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
other improvements at Oubero station ..........
600
and
all
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks
1,300
other improvements at McCarty's station .......
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
3,100
other improvements at Grant's station ..........
Station houses, depots, switches, water tanks and all
1,300
other improvements at Blue Water station ......
$11,340"
The assessments were not, as contended by appellee, of personal property. They were clearly of real estate, and because
the improvements were designated by name and some of
them given a separate valuation, did not invalidate their
assessment as real estate. It was mere .description, which
did not change the essential or legal character of the superstructures.
It follows from these views that
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory 'must
be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceeding8 in accordance with this oyinion .

