OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

tion to telephone companies whose business is that of electrically transmitting articulate speech between different points.
What rights the appellee had or has under the laws of Virginia and the ordinances of the city of Richmond is a question
which the Circuit Court did not decide, but expressly waived.
It is appropriate that that question should first be considered
and determined by the court of original jurisdiction.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals so far as it
reverses the decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed, and
the cause is remanded with directionsfor such further
proceedings in the Circuit Court as may be in conformity
with the principles of this opinion and consistent with
law. it is so ordered.

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
"PEAL

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Ho. 19. Arguied April 20,1898. -Decided

May 22, 1899.

Under the act of July 28, 1892, c. 313, conferring jurisdiction on the Court
of Claims "to hear and determine what are the just rights in law" of
the daughter and heir of Hugh Worthington to compensation for his in-terest in a steamboat taken and converted into a gunboat by the United
States during the war of the rebellion, and, if it "shall find that said
claim is just," to render judgment in her favor for the sum found due,
the issue to be determined depends upon the question what had been his
legal right to such compensation, embracing all questions, of law or of
fact, affecting the merits of the claim.
Whether the capture of a steamboat on the western waters within the lines
of the Confederate forces in February, 1862, by part of the naval forces
of the United States on those waters, commanded by officers of the Navy,
and under the general control of the War Department, but no land forces
being near the scene of the capture or taking any active part therein,
was a capture by the Army - qucere.
A libel for the condemnation, under the act of August 6, 1861, c. 60, of a
steamboat captured and taken into firm possession by naval forces of the
United States on the western waters during the war of the rebellioii, was
Med by the district attorney in the District Court of the United States
for a district into which she had been brought; the libel alleged that she

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.

77M

Statement of the Case.
had been seized by. a quartermaster, for the reason that she was used
with her owners' knowledge and consent in aiding the rebellion, contrary to that act; she was taken Into the custody of the marshal under a
writ of attachment from the court; notice was published to all persons
to appear and show cause against her condemnation, and no one appeared
or interposed a claim. It seems, that a decree thereupon rendered for
her condemnation and sale was valid against her former owners and all
other persons.
The act of March 3, 1800, c. 14, § 1, providing that vessels or goods of a
-person resident within or under the protection of the United States, taken
by an enemy and recaptured by a vessel of the United States, shall be
restored to the owner on payment of a certain sum as salvage, has no application to property captured by the United States, which had come into
the enemy's possession by purchase or otherwise, with the consent of
the owner or of his agent, and not.by capture or by other forcible and
compulsory appropriation.
Communications between high civil and military officers of the so-called
Confederate States, preserved in the Confederate Archives Office of the
War Department of the United States, or duly certified copies thereof
from that off.ce, are competent evidence upon the question whether possession of a steamboat belonging to a citizen of the United States was
obtained by the Confederate States by capture or by purchase.
A petition under the act of July 28, 1892, c. 313, for compensation for an
interest in a steamboat, which alleges that she was captured by the insurgents and recaptured by the United States during the war of the rehellion, is not sustained by evidence that she was captured by the United
States from the Confederate forces after they had obtained possession
of her by purchase..

Tnis was a petition under the act of Congress of July 28,
1892, c. 313, (copied in the margin,') filed in the Court of
1 An act to confer jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to hear and deter-

mine the claim of the heir of Hugh Worthington for his interest in
the steamer Eastport.
Whereas it is claimed the steamer Eastport was taken by the United
States Anno Domini eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and converted into
a gunboat; and
Whereas it is claimed at the time of such taking one Hugh Worthington,
then of Metropolis, Massac County, Illinois, but since deceased, was the
owner of three fifths interest in said steamer, and no compensation has
been paid to said Hugh Worthington or his heirs; and
Whereas his daughter, Mrs. Sarah A. Oakes, of Metropolis, Illinois,
claims that Hugh Worthington was a loyal citizen, that she is his only heir
at law, and is justly entitled to receive from the United States compensation for the value of her father's interest in said steamer: Therefore
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Claims, January 9, 1895, by Sarah A. Oakes, the heir at
law and next of kin of Hugh Worthington, to recover compensation for his interest in the steamboat Eastport, alleged
in the petition to have been captured by the insurgents,
and recaptured by the United States, during the war of the
rebellion.
The facts of the case, as found by the Court of Claims, were
in substance as follows:
At the outbreak of the war of the rebellion, the steamboat
Eastport, of 5701 tons burthen, duly enrolled at Paducah,
Kentucky, and commanded by Captain Elijah Wood, was
plying between the ports of Nashville, Tennessee, and New
Orleans, Louisiana, engaged in the cotton trade. After the
beginning of the war, she continued, under Wood's command, to ply between points on the Ohio River until May,
.1861, when, in consequence of the blockade of the Mississippi
River by the United States forces at Cairo, Illifiois, she was
tied up at Paducah, and there remained until August, 1861,
undergoing extensive repairs under the orders of Captain
Wood, and of Hugh Worthington, who was the owner of
three fifths of her, the remaining two fifths being owned
by two other persons.
About the last of August, or early in September, 1861, when
States of America in Congress assembled, That fuU jurisdiction is hereby
conferred upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine what are the
just rights in law of the said Sarah A. Oakes, as heir of Hugh Worthington, deceased, and that from any judgment so entered by said Court of
Claims either party may appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States,
for compensation for the value of said Worthington's interest in said
steamer Eastport. That upon proper petition being presented by said
Sarah A. Oakes, her heirs., executors or administrators, to said court,
said court is authorized and directed to inquire into the merits of said
claim, and if on a full hearing the court shall find that said claim is just,
the court shall enter judgment in favor of the claimant and against the
United States for whatever sum shall be found to be due.
SEc. 2. That in case judgment shall be rendered against the United
States, the Secretary of the Treasury shall be, and he is hereby, authorized
and directed to pay the claimant, her heirs, executors or administrators,
whatever sum shall be adjudged by the court to be due out of any money
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated. 27 Stat. 320.

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.

781,

Statement of the Case.

the United States forces.were about to take possession of Paducah, and while the Eastport was in the possession and under
the control ot Captain Wood, he took her, with a small crew,
without
Worthington's knowledge or consent, from Paducah
up the Tennessee
River to a place near the mouth of the Sandy
River, a few miles above Fort Henry, within the lines of the
Confederate forces. Captain Wood returned to Paducah a few
months afterwards, and continued to reside there until his
death, about the close of the war. What disposition he made
of the Eastport does not appear, although papers in the Confederate Archives Office show what is stated in the certificate
copied in the margin.' Nor does it appear whether the sum of
money stated therein was paid to Captain Wood, nor whether
he 6ver rendered an account thereof to the other owners, nor
whether they received any part of that sum, nor where they
are, nor what has become of their interests in the Eastport,
nor wby they are not seeking payment for the value thereof.
Some time between September, 1861, and February, 7, 1862,
I Under date of October 31, 1861, General L. Polk, C. S. Army, telegraphed from Columbus, Kentucky, to the Secretary of the Navy, C. S., that
"1the price of the steamer Eastport is $12,000;" and on the same date J. P.
Benjamin, acting Secretary of War, C. S., telegraphed to General L. Polk
directions to "buy the steamer Eastport if thought worth $12,00 demanded."
Under date of November 28, 1861, General L. Polk, in a letter from Columbus, Kentucky, addressed to General A. S. Johnston, C. S. A., stated that
he bought the steamer Eastport by authority of the Secretary of the Navy.
Under date of January 5, 1862, General L. Polk wrote to J. P. Benjamin,
Secretary of War, C. S., as follows: "By virtue of the authority from the
War Department of October 31, I bought the steamer Eastport, and she is
now undergoing the necessary alterations to convert her into a gunboat."
Undter date of January 16, 1862, J. P. Benjamin, Secretary of War, C. S.,
wrote to General L. Polk as follows: "I shall order the necessary funds forwarded at once for the Eastport."
Under date of February 2, 1863, General Polk, in a statement to the C. S.
Secretary of War of the disbursement of certain moneys, gives as one item,
"Ain't expended in purchase of steamer Eastport as per receipt of Major
Peters, A. Q. AT., $9688.92."
No further information on the subject of the within inquiry has been'
found in said archives.
F. C. AINSWORTH,,
By authority of the Secretary of War:
Colonel U. S. Army, Chief of Office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

the Eastport was in the possession of the Confederate forces,
but whether by reason of capture, or of purchase from Captain
Wood, does not appear; and before the latter date she was
taken by those forces to Cerro Gordo, Tennessee, and work was
there begun to transform her into a gunboat for use in the
Confederate, service.
On February 7, 1862, while she was lying under the bank of
the Tennessee River near Cerro Gordo, and being converted
into a gunboat for use in the Confederate service, with the
iron and other materials therefor on board, and having bebn
dismantled, and her upper works, cabin and pilot-house cut
away, but before she had been completed, or had been used,
or was in condition for use, in any hostile demonstration
against the United States, she was boarded under the fire of
the enemy (whether that fire was from the vessel or from the
land does not appear) and captured by detachments of men in
small boats from three United States gunboats, commanded
by a lieutenant in the Navy, and part of the naval forces on
the western waters, then under the control of the War Department, and commanded by Captain Andrew H. Foote, who was
serving under a commission from the President of August 5,
1861, appointing him'a captain in the Navy, and under an
order from the Secretary of the Navy of August 30, 1861, directing him "to take command of the naval operations upon
the western waters, now organizing under the direction of the
War- Department," and to proceed at once to St. Louis, to
place himself in communication with Major General Fremont,
commanding the army of the West, and to cooperate fully and
freely with him as to his own movements, and to make requisitions upon the War Department through hiih. Immediately
after the capture, Captain Foote reported his operations, together with the report of the lieutenant commanding the gunboats, to the Secretary of the Navy, who communicated them
to Congress. At the time of the capture, no land forces were
near the scene thereof, or took any active part therein.
The Eastport was brought by her captors to Mound City,
Illinois, on the Ohio River, arriving there about February 26,
1862; and was there, on thb recommendation -of Captain

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Foote, converted by the United States into a -gunboat;. and
about August, 1862, went into commission as such with a full
complement of officers and men of the navy; and continued
in the service as part of the Mississippi squadron until April,
1864, when she was sunk by running upon a torpedo, and was
blown up by her commander to prevent her capture by the
Confederate forces. The Eastport and all other vessels of the
Navy performing services on the western waters were under
the control of the War Department until October 1, 1862, when
they were turned over to the Navy Department, pursuant to
the act of Congress of July 16, 1862, c. 185. 12 Stat. 587.
On July 17, 1862, in the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Illinois, the district attorney of
the United States filed a libel in admiralty against the Eastport, alleging "that on or about the 20th day of June, A.D.
1862, in the Mississippi River near Columbus, Kentucky, there
was seized by George D. Wise, captain and assistant quartermaster, with gunboat flotilla, (and which he hereby reports for
condemnation) the steamer Eastport, and which was brought
into said district. Said seizure was made for the reason that
said steamer was used by and with the knowledge and consent of the owner in aiding the present rebellion against the
United States, contrary to the act of August 6, 1861. The
said attorney therefore asks that process of attachment may
issue against said steamer, and the monition of this hon'orable
court, and that all persons having an interest in the same may
be made parties herein, and that on a final hearing of this
case your honor will adjudge and decree condemnation of
said boat and order that the same may be sold." Thereupon
the court issued a monition, reciting that the libel had been
filed by the district attorney and Captain Wise; and commanding the marshal to attach the Eastport and detain her
in his custody until the further order of the court; and to
give notice, by publication in a certain newspaper published
at Springfield in that district for fourteen days before the day
of trial, "and by notice posted up in the most public manner
for the space of fourteen days at or near the place of trial, of
such seizure and libel, to all persons claiming the said steamer

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Eastport, boats, tackle, apparel and furniture, or knowing or
having anything to say why this court should not pronounce
against the same, according to the prayer of the said libel,"
to appear before the court at Springfield on September 2, 1862.
The marshal's return on the monition stated that by virtue
thereof he had "attached the within named boat, and made
proclamation of the same;" and notice was published as
ordered. And on that day the court entered a decree, reciting
the attachment and notice, and that, notwithstanding proclamation made, no one had appeared or interposed a claim; and
adjudging "that the default of all persons be, and the same
are, accordingly hereby entered, and that the allegations of
the libel in this cause be taken as true against said property,
and that the same be condemned as forfeited to the United
States," and be sold by the marshal. Pursuant to that decree
the Eastport was sold October 4, 1862, by the marshal to the
United States for the sum of $10,000, which, after deducting
allowances to'the clerk, to the marshal and to the district
attorney, was ordered by the court to be "equally divided
between the United States and George D. Wise, the informer
herein."
Of those proceedings, Hugh Worthington had no notice or
knowledge until after the sale of the vessel under them; but
whether her other owners or Captain Wood had any does not
-appear.
Before and throughout the war, Worthington was a citizen
and resident of Metropolis, Illinois, about ten miles above
Paducah, and was loyal to the United States, and gave no
aid or comfort to the rebellion. He died in March, 1876,
intestate and without property, and having received no compensation from the United States for the use or value of the
Eastport. The claimant, Sarah A. Oakes, is his daughter, and
his sole surviving heir at law and next of kin.
When Captain Wood ran the Eastport up the Tennessee
River, she was worth $40,000. When she was captured by
the United States forces, she was worth $30,000. During the
time~she was used by the United States, a fair and reasonable
rental for her was $150 a day.

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Claims decided that the claimant was not
entitled to recover against the United States, and dismissed
the petition. 30 C. Cl. 378. The claimant appealed to this
court.
.Mr.John C. Fay for appellant.
Mr16.. A8si8tant Attorney General Pr'adt for appellees.

Mr.

A88i8tant Attorney John G. CtpMene was on his brief.
MR. JuSTIE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The special act of Congress of July 28, 1892, c. 313, under
which the petition in this case was filed, confers jurisdiction
upon the Court of Claims "to hear avid determine what are
the just rights in law" of the claimant, as the daughter and
heir at law of Hugh Worthington, to compensation for the
value of his interest in the steamboat Eastport, alleged to
have been taken by the United States in 1862, and converted
into a gunboat;. and authorizes and directs that court, upon
her petition, "to inquire into the merits of said claim, and if
on a full hearing the court shall find that said claim is just,"
to render judgment in her favor and against the United States
for whatever sum shall be found due. 27 Stat. 320.
Under this act, the question whether "said claim is just"
is the same as the question "what are the just rights in law"
of the claimant as Worthington's daughter and heir; and this
necessarily depends upon the question what had been his legal
right to compensation from the United States for the value
of his interest in the vessel.
The act neither recognizes the claim as a valid one, nor
undertakes to pass upon its validity; but simply empowers
the Court of Claims to hear and determine whether the claim
is valid or invalid; and the determination of that issue embraces not only the questions whether the claimant was the
daughter and heir at law of Worthington, whether he was
a loyal citizen of the United States, whether he was the
*OL. CLxxv-50

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of three fifths of the Eastport, and whether the vessel
was taken and applied to the use of the United States, but all
other questions, of law or of fact, affecting the merits of the
claim.

United States v. Cumming, 130 U. S. 452.

The leading facts of the case, as found by the Court of
Claims, are as follows: Worthington was a loyal citizen of
the United States, residing at Metropolis in the State of Illinois; and the claimant was his daughter and only heir at law.
Early in the war of the rebellion, in consequence of the
blockade of the Mississippi River by the forces of the United
States, the Eastport was tied up at Paducah in the State of
Kentucky, her home port, undergoing extensive repairs under
the orders of her master, Captain Wood, and of Worthington,
who owned three fifths of her. She was afterwards taken by
Wood, without Worthington's knowledge or consent, up the
Tennessee River within the lines of the Confederate forces,
and came into their possession ; and while in their possession,
and being transformdd into a gunboat for use in the Confederate service, having on board the iron and other materials
therefor, and having been dismantled, and her upper works,
cabin and pilot-house cut away, but before she had been completed or used, or was in condition for use, in any hostile demonstration against the United States, she was captured by
part of the naval forces of the United States on the western
waters, then under the control of the War Department. No
land forces took part in the capture, or were in the neighborhood at the time. The Eastport was immediately brought by
her captors to Mound City, Illinois, and was afterwards converted by the United States into a gunboat, and put in commission in the Navy as such.
The questions of law presented. by the record" are not free
from difficulty.
By the law of nations, as recognized and administered in
this country, when movable property in the hands of the
enemy, used, or intended to be used, for hostile purposes, is
captured by land forces, the title passes to the captors as soon
as they have reduced the property to firm possession; but
when such property is captured by naval forces, a judicial

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

decree of condemnation is usually necessary to complete the
title of the captors. 1 Kent. Com. 102, 110; Halleck's International Law, c. 19, § 7; c. 30, § 4; Kirk v. Lynd,106 U. S.
315, 317.
The Eastport, at the time of her capture by the forces of
the United States, was in the hands of the Confederate forces,
and was being transformed into a gunboat for use in the Confederate service, with the iron and other materials therefor on
board. Although not yet in condition for hostile use, she was.
clearly intended for that use. Consequently if, as'the Court
of Claims held, her capture was made by the Army of the
United States, it cannot be doubted that the capture was at
once complete upon her being taken into the possession of the
national forces, and brought by them to Mound City, Illinois,
in February, 1862.
The grounds on which the decision of the Court of Claims
proceeded were that by the Army Appropriation Act of July 17,
1861, 12 Stat. 263, there was appropriated for "gunboats on
the western rivers, one million dollars;" that, at the time of
the capture of the Eastport, the gunboats and the naval forces
of the United States on those rivers were under the control
of the War Department; that she was on inland waters, and
could not be regarded as maritime prize; that she was lying
dismantled by the bank of a river, where the seizure might as
well have been made by a detaohment from the Army, as by
one from the Navy; and that, in view of these facts, the Eastport must be considered as having been captured by the
Army.
In support of that conclusion, reference was made to United
States v. 269 jBales of Cotton, Woolworth, 236. But that case
was wholly different from the case at bar. Iii that case, a
battalion of cavalry, commanded by an officer of the Army
of the United States, went in vessels in the service of the
United States up the Mississippi River, and landed in the
State of Mississippi, and penetrated into country in the control of the Confederate forces, and, after a conflict with them,
took from their possession a quantity of cotton, and brought
it by the river to the State of Arkansas; and Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Miller, Acting in the Circuit Court, held that the cotton so
captured was not within the jurisdiction of a prize court.
The grounds of his decision are sufficiently shown by the
following extract from his opinion:
"It is notisupposed or alleged that any of these vessels were
officered by government officers. They were not even armed
vessels, and could not take part in any action, or contribute in
any manner by belligerent force to the capture. It is not
shown that they remained after they landed the forces; and
the fair inference is that they did not. It is averred that the
cotton was conveyed by the soldiers to the river, and that it
was taken thence to the State of Arkansas; but it is not
alleged that it 'vas so taken by the vessels. In short, the
entire statement is consistent with the fact that the vessels
and crews we're in the employment of the War Department,
and were used merely as transports to carry the troops; and
it is consistent with no other supposition. It is also evident
that the capture was not made on the banks of the river, but
some distance inland, where the vessels could render, no other
assistance than to land the forces, and receive them again. I
cannot conceive that the employment by the Government of
unarmed steamboats, for the mere purpose of transporting
troops from one point to another on the Mississippi River,
can render every capture made by the troops or detachments
so transported prize of war, and let in the crews and officers.
of those vessels to a share of the prize money. Such vessels
are -in no sense war vessels, and are neither expected nor fitted
to take part in engagements." Woolworth, 256, 257.
In the case at bar, on the other hand, it appears, by the
facts found by the Court of Claims, that the Eastport, while
waterborne, was boarded and taken by detachments of men
in small boats from three United States gunboats, armed
vessels, commanded by a lieutenant in the Navy, and part
of the naval forces on the western waters, commanded by
a captain in the Navy, who reported the capture to the Secretary of the Navy; and that, at the time of the capture, no
land forces were near the scene thereof, or took any active
part therein. Under these circuimstances, we are not pre-

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pared to hold that the capture was made by the Army, and
not by the naval forces of the United States, although the.
latter, at the time and place, were under the general control
of the War Department.
If it was not a capture by the Army, it was clearly a capture by the naval forces; and the United States rely' upon the
proceedings for the condemnation and sale of the Eastport in
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, which are stated in the record.
Those proceedings, as appears on the face of the'libel, were
instituted under the act of Congress of August 6, 1861, c. 60,
the material provisions of which are as follows:
Section 1 enacts that, if the owner of any property, of
whatsoever kind or description, "shall purchase or acquire,
sell or give," with "intent to use or employ the same, or
suffer the same to be used or employed," or "shall knowingly
use or employ, or consent to the use and employment of the
same," in aiding, abetting or pr.moting the then existing insurrection, "all such property is hereby declared to be lawful
subject of prize and capture, wherever found; and it shall be
the duty of the President of the United States to cause the
same to be seized, confiscated and condemned."
Section 2 gives jurisdiction of the proceedings for ,condemnation of such property to "the District or Circuit Court
of the United States having jurisdiction of the amount, or in.
admiralty, in any district in which the same may be seized,
or into which they may be taken and proceedings first instituted."
Section 3 provides that "the Attorney General, or any district attorney of the United States [in the district] in which
said property may at the time be, may institute the proceedings of condemnation, and in such case they shall be wholly
for the benefit of the United States; or any person may file
an information with such attorney, in which case the proceedings shall be for the use of such informer and the United States
in equal parts." 12 Stat. 319.
In the proceedings for the condemnation of the Eastport,
the libel alleged that she had been seized, in June, 1862, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

an assistant quartermaster, "with gunboat flotilla," and that
"said seizure was made for the reason that said steamer was
used by and with the knowledge and consent of the owner
in aiding th~e present rebellion against the United States, contrary to the act of August 6, 1861." This is a sufficient allegation that she was so used with the knowledge and consent
of her owner, as well as that she was seized for that reason,
and brings the case within the first section of that act. The
proceedings were in conformity with the practice in admiralty,
and were not governed by the strict rules that prevail in regard to indictments or criminal informations at common law.
Union Ins. Co. v. United States, 6 Wall. 759, 763; Confiscation

cases, 20 Wall. 92, 104-107.
The libel was filed, as required by the second and third sections of that act, by the district attorney of the United States,
in the District Court of the United States, in a district into
which the Eastport had been brought. The libel seems to
have been filed by the district attorney on the information of
the assistant quartermaster; but this was unimportant for any
purpose, except for the distribution of the proceeds of the sale
after condemnation.
The expressions in the opinions in The Confiscation cases,
20 Wall. 92, 109, and in United States v. Winchester, 99 U. S.
372, 378, cited by the appellant as tending to show that the
proceedings for condemnation were void, for want of a preliminary order of the President of the United States directing
the seizure of the Eastport and the institution of the proceedings, were delivered in cases in which proceedings for the confiscation of land, or of cotton captured on land, were sought
to be maintained under the act of July 17, 1862, c. 195, (12 Stat.
589,) and are not easily to be reconciled with earlier judgments
of this court under the same act. See Pelham v. Rose, 9 Wall.
103; Jillerv. United- States, 11 Wall. 268.
But the act of 1861 differed materially, in its object, and in
its provisions, from the act of 1862. As was observed by
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, in Kirk v. Lynd,
106 U. S.315, the act of 1861 was passed by Congress iu the
exercise of its power under the Constitution "to make rules

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

concerning captures on land and water," and was aimed exclusively at the seizure and confiscation of property used in
aid of the rebellion, "not to punish the owner for any crime,
but to weaken the insurrection;" but the act of 1862 proceeded upon the entirely different principle of confiscating
property, without regard to its use, by way of punishing the
owner for being engaged in rebellion and not returning to his
allegiance. The act of 1861 did not require (as the act of 1862
did) that proceedings for condemnation of the property in
question should be instituted "after the same shall have been
seized;" and the act of 1861 expressly authorized (as the act
of 1862 did not) such proceedings to be instituted by "the
Attorney General or any district attorney of the United States
[in the district] in which -said property may at the time be."
The case at bar presents no question of the construction of the
act of 1862.
The Eastport having been captured by the United States
forces, and taken into the firm possession of the United States,
before the institution of the proceedings for condemnation;
those proceedings having been instituted by the district attorney, under the authority expressly given him by the act of
1861, in a proper court of the United States in a district intb
which she had been taken; and thereupon, according to the
usual course of proceedings in 'em in admiralty, the vessel
having been taken into the custody of the marshal under a
writ of attachment from the court, and notice published to all
persons interested to appear and show cause against her condemnation, and no one having appeared or interposed a claim
at the time and place appointed for the hearing; we find it
difficult to resist the conclusion that the decree of condemnation thereupon entered was valid, as against ner former owners
and all other persons, under the act of 1861; that the proceedings cannot be collaterally impeached; 'and that the
sale under that decree passed an absolute title to the United
States.
But, apart from the question whether the record shows a
complete title in the Eastport to have vested in the United
States, the claimant has wholly failed to show that Worth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ington had any legal right to compensation from the United
States for his interest in the vessel.
The counsel for the claimant contends that, the capture
having been made on navigable waters by vessels of the
United States, the claimant is entitled to compensation for
the value of Worthington's interest in the Eastport, under the
act of Congress of March 3, 1800, c. 14, § 1, which was as
follows:
"When any vessel other than a vessel of war or privateer,
or when any goods, which shall hereafter be taken as prize by
any vessel acting under authority from the Government of the
United States, shall appear to have before belonged to any
person or persons resident within or under the protection of
the United States, and to have been taken by an enemy of
the United States, or under authority, or pretence of authority, from any prince, government or State against which the
United States have authorized, or shall authorize, defence or
reprisals, such vessel or goods not having been condemned as
prize by competent authority before the fecapture thereof, the
same shall be restored to the former owner or owners thereof,
he or they paying, for and in lieu of salvage, if retaken by a
public vessel of the United States, one eighth part, and if retaken by a private vessel of the United States, one sixth part,
of the true value of the vessel or goods so to be restored, allowing and excepting all imposts and public duties to which
the same may be liable. And if the vessel so retaken shall
appear to have been set forth and armed as a vessel of war,
before such capture or afterwards, and before the retaking
thereof as aforesaid, the former owner or owners, on the restoration thereof, shall be adjudged to pay, for and in lieu of
salvage, one moiety of the true value of such vessel of war as
privateer." 2 Stat. 16:
That act was a regulation of the jus postliminii, by which
things taken by the enemy were restored to their former
owner upon coming again under the power of the nation of
which he was a citizen or subject. The jus postliminii, derived from the Roman law, and regulated in modern times by
statute or treaty, or by. the usage of civilized nations, has been-

OAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

rested by eminent jurists upon the duty of the sovereign to
protect his citizens and subjects and their property against
warlike or violent acts of the enemy. Vattel's Law of Nations, lib. 3, c. 14, § 204; Halleck's International Law, c. 35,
% 1, 2. He is under no such obligation to protect them
against unwise bargains, or against sales made for inadequate
consideration, or by an agent or custodian in excess of his real
authority. The juSpo8timinii attaches to property taken by
the enemy with the strong hand against the will of its owner
or custodian, and not to property obtained by the enemy by
negotiation or purchase.
The act of 1800 is entitled "An act providing for salvage
in cases of recapture," and applies only to recaptures from
an enemy. In order to come within its purpose, (and its very
words, the property in question must "have been taken by
an enemy of the United States," and "retaken" by a public
or private vessel of the United States. Where there has been
no capture, there can be no recapture. That enactment has
been substantially embodied in later statutes. Act of June 30,
1864, c. 174, § 29; 13 Stat. 314; Rev. Stat. § 4652. The
similar provision of the English Prize Acts was held by Sir
William Scott to be inapplicable to a British ship captured
from the French during a war between the two countries
which before the war had been seized, condemned and sold
under the revenue laws of France, although the French seizure
was alleged to have been violent and unjust. The Jeune
V'oyageur, 5 C. Rob. 1. Neither the English statutes nor our
own have ever been held to apply to property which had come
into the enemy's possession, by purchase or otherwise, with
the consent of the owner or of his agent.
In tle present case, the only facts.found by the Court of
Claims (other than may be ascertained from the papers in the
Confederate Archives Office) which can be supposed to have
any bearing on the question whether the Eastport came into
the possession of the Confederate forces by capture, or by purchase, are these: Before and throughout the war of the rebellion, Worthington, being the owner of three fifths of the
Eastport, was a citizen and resident of Illinois, was loyal to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, and gave no aid or comfort to the rebellion,
and neither knew of, nor consented to, the Eastport being
taken by her captain, Wood, within the lines of the Confederate forces. This precludes any inference that Worthington
himself participated in, or consented to, a transfer of the Eastport to the Confederate authorities; but it does not negative
the supposition that she was sold to those authorities by Wood,
or by the owners of the other two fifths of her. That Wood's
possession and control of her was by Worthington's authority
and consent is evident from the facts that Worthington owned
more than one half of her, and that she was being extensively
repaired, under the orders of both Wood and Worthington,
shortly before Wood took her within the Confederate lines.
At that time she was an unarmed vessel, and fit for commercial purposes only.
It is stated in the finding of facts that it did not appear
what disposition Wood made of the Eastport, nor whether
he was paid purchase money for her, nor whether he ever
accounted for such money to the other owners, nor whether
they had received any part of it, nor whether she came into
the possession of the Confederate forces by capture, or by
purchase from Wood.
If the matter rested here, there would be nothing to warrant the court in concluding that the Eastport came into the
possession of the Confederate forces by capture or other forcible appropriation. But it does not rest here.
Upon the question whether the so-called Confederate States
acquired possession of the Eastport by capture or by purchase,
the extracts from the Confederate archives, made part of the
facts found by the Court of Claims, appear to this court to
have an important bearing, and to be competent, though not
conclusive, evidence.
The government of the Confederate States, although in no
sense a government de jure, and never recognized by the
United States as in all respects a government de facto, yet
was an organized and actual government, maintained by
military power, throughout the limits of the States that
adhered to it, except in those portions of them protected

OAKES v. UN1ITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

from its control by the presence of the armed forces of the
United States; and the United States, from motives of
humanity and expediency, had conceded to that government some of the rights and obligations of a belligerent.
Prize cases, 2 Black, 635, 673, 674; Thorington v. Smith,
8 Wall. 1, 7, 9, 10; Ford v. Surget, 97 U. S..594, 604, 605;
Te -Lilla,2 Sprague, 177, and 2 Clifford, 169.
No better evidence of the doings of that organization assuming to act as a government can be found than in papers
contemporaneously drawn up by its officers in the performance of thei supposed duties to that government.
For the collection and preservation of such papers, a bureau,
office or division in the War Department (now known as the
Confederate Archives Office) was created by the Executive
authority of the United States soon after the close of the war
of' the rebellion, and has been maintained ever since, and has
been recognized by many acts of Congress.
For instance, Congress, beginning in 1872, has made frequent
appropriations "to enable the Secretary of War to have the
rebel archives examined and copies furnished from time to
time for the use of the Government." Acts of May 8, 1872,
c. 140, and March 3, 1873, c. 226; 17 Stat. 79, 500; August
15, 1876, c. 287; March 3, 1877, c. 102; 19 Stat. 160, 310;
June 19, 1878, c. 329; 20 Stat. 195; June 21, 1879, c. 34;
June 15, 1880, c. 225; March 3, 1881, c. 130; 21 Stat. 23, 226,
402. And the appropriations for the War Department in
1882 included one "for travelling expenses in connection with
the collection of Confederate records placed by gift or loan
at the disposal of the Government." Act of August 5, 1882,
c. 389; 22 Stat. 241. Congress has also occasionally made
appropriations "to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to
have the rebel archives and records of captured property
examined, and information furnished therefrom for the use
of the Government." Acts of March 3, 1875, c. 130; 18 Stat.
376; March 3, 1879, c. 182; 20 Stat. 384; June 16, 1880,
c. 235; 21 Stat. 266. It has once, at least, made an appropriation "for collecting, compiling and arranging the naval
records of the war of the rebellion, inoluding Confederate

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

naval records." Act of July 7, 1884, c. 331; 23 Stat. 185.
And it has made appropriations "for the preparation of a
general card index of the books, muster rolls, orders and other
official papers preserved in the Confederate Archives Office."
Acts of May 13, 1892, c. 72, and :March 3, 1893, c. 208; 27
Stat. 36, 600.
It would be an anomalous condition of things if records of
this kind, collected and preserved by the Government of the
United States in a public office at great expense, were wholly
inadmissible in a court of justice to show facts of which they
afford the most distinct and appropriate evidence, and which,
in the nature of things, can hardly be satisfactorily proved in
any other manner.
The act of March 3, 1871, c. 116, § 2, provided for the
appointment of a board of commissioners, "to receive,
examine and consider the justice -and validity of such
claims as shall be brought before them, of those citizens
who remained loyal adherents to the cause and the Government of the United States during the war, for stores or supplies taken or furnished during the rebellion for the use of
the Army of the United States in States proclaimed as in
insurrection against the United States, including the use and
loss of vessels or boats while employed in the military service
of the United States." 16 Stat. 524. By the act of April
20, 1871, c. 21, § 1, it was enacted that "all books, records,
papers and documents relative to transactions of or with the
late so-called government of the Confederate States, or the
government of any State lately in insurrection, now in the possession, or which may at any time come into the possession,
of the Government of the United States, or of any department
thereof, may be resorted to- for information by the board of
commissioners of claims created by act approved March 3,
1871; and copies thereof, duly certified by the officer having
custody of the same, shall be treated with like force and effect
as the original." 17 Stat. 6. The latter act thus not only
allowed a particular board of commissioners, appointed to pass
upon certain claims against the United States for property
taken for the use of the Army during the war of the rebellion,

QAKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to have access to such archives for information as to transactions of or with the so-called government of the Confederate
States; but it declared the records and papers in such archives,
or duly certified copies thereof, to be competent evidence of
such transactions.
Section 882 of the Revised Statutes, also, reenacting earlier
acts of Congress, provides that "copies of any books, records,
papers or documents in any of the Executive Departments,
authenticated under the seals of such Departments respectively, shall be admitted in evidence equally with the.originals
thereof." And, by section 1076, the Court of Claims has
"power to call upon any of the Departments for any information or papers it may deem necessary;" "but the head of
any Department may refuse and omit to comply with any call
for information or papers, when, in his opinion, such compliance would be injurious to the public interest."
The certificate of the officer of tho United States in charge
of the Confederate Archives Office, embodied in the findings
of fact, would appear to have been furnished upon a call from
the Court of Claims; and it is not open, at this stage of the
case, to objection for not being under the seal of the War
Department, since that court has found that the papers in
that office show the facts stated in that certificate. Those
facts consist of official communications, between high civil and
military officers of the Confederate States, including a dispatch from one of their generals in Kentucky, October 31, 1861,
to the secretary of the navy, that the price of the Eastport
was $12,000; a reply of the secretary of war of the same date,
giving authority to the general to buy her if thought worth
that sum; a letter of January 5, 1862, from the general to the
secretary of war, informing him that, by virtue of that authority, he had bought her,- and she was being converted into a
gunboat; a letter of Tanuary 16, 1862, from the secretary of
war to the general, saying that he would at once order to be
forwarded the necessary funds for the Eastliort; and a statement of disbursement§, dated February 2, 1863, by the general
to the secretary of war, in which one item was a sum of
$9688.92, "expended in purchase of Steamer Eastport."

798

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Not going beyond what is required for the purposes of this
case, we are of opinion that the originals of these communications, and consequently the certified copies thereof from the
Confederate Archives Office, are competent and persuasive
evidence that the Confederate authorities did not obtain possession of the Eastport by capture or by other forcible and
compulsory appropriation.
The claimant therefore wholly fails to support the allegation of her petition that the Eastport was captured by the
insurgents.
Jfudgment affirmed.

