McDONALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Statement of the Case.

the other way, it is obviously unnecessary to go further and
point out the unsoundness of the legal contention relied upon.
Affirmed.

McDONALD, Receiver, v, WILLIAMS. 1
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued April 21,1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

The receiver of a national bank cannot recover a dividend paid to a stockholder not at all out of profits, but entirely out of capital, when the
stockholder receiving such dividend acted in good faith, believing the
same to be paid out of profits, and when the bank, at the time such dividend was declared and paid, was no' insolvent.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York. It was brought
by the plaintiff, as receiver of the Capital National Bank of
Lincoln, Nebraska, for the purpose of recovering from the defefdants, who were stockholders in the bank, the amount of
certain dividends received by them before the appointment of
a receiver.
Upon the trial of the case the Circuit Court decreed in fayor
of the plaintiff for the recovery of a certain amount. The defendants appealed from the decree, because it was not in their
favor, and the plaintiff appealed from it, because the recovery
provided for in the decree was not as much as he claimed to
be entitled to. Upon the argument of the appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals certain questions of law were presented
as to which that court desired the instruction of this court for
their proper decision.
It appears from the statement of facts made by the court
that the bank suspended payment in January, 1893, in a condition of hopeless insolvency, the stockholders, including the
I The docket title of this case is Hayden, Receiver, v.,Williams.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

defendants, have been assessed to the full amount of their respective holdings, but the money thus obtained, added to the
amount realized from the assets, will not be sufficient even if
all dividends paid during the bank's existence were repaid to
the receiver, to pay seventy-five per cent of the claims of the
bank's creditors.
This suit was brought to compel the repayment of certain
dividends paid by the bank to the defendants on that part of
the capital of the bank represented by their stock of the par
value of $5000, on the ground alleged in the bill that each of
said dividends was fraudulently declared and paid out of the
capital of the bank, and not out of net profits.
A list of the dividends and the amount thereof paid by the
bank from January, 1885, to July, 1892, both inclusive, is contained in the statement, and it is added that all dividends,
.except the last, (July 12, 1892,) were paid to the defendant
Williams, a stockholder to the amount of $5000, from the organization of the bank. The last dividend was paid to the
defendant Dodd, who bought Williams' stock, and had the
same transferred to his own name December 16, 1891.
When the dividend of January 6, 1889, was declared and
paid, and when each subsequent dividend, down to and including July, 1891, was declared and paid, there were no net profits. The capital of the bank was impaired and the dividends
were paid out of the capital, but the bank was still solvent.
When the dividends of January and July, 1892, were declared
and paid there were no net profits, the capital of the bank was
lost, and the bank actually insolvent.
The defendants, neither of whom was an officer or director,
were ignorant of the financial condition of the bank, and received the dividends in good faith, relying on the officers of the
bank, and believing the dividends were coming out of the profits.
Upon these facts the court desired the instruction of this
court for the proper decision of the following questipns:
IFirst question. Can the receiver of a national bank recover a dividend paid not at all out of profits, but entirely out
of the capital, when the stockholder receiving such dividend
acted in good faith, believing the same to be paid out of the

McDONALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

profits, aid when the bank, at the time such dividend was de.
elated and paid, was not insolvent?
Second question. Has a United States Circuit Court juris.
diction to entertain a bill in equity, brought by a receiver of
a national bank against stockholders to recover dividends
which, as claimed, were improperly paid when such suit is
brought against two or more stockholders and embraces two
or more dividends, and when the objection, that there is an
adequate remedy at law, is raised by the answer q
.Mr. Edward W imsow Paige for appellant.
.Mr. Theodore De Witt for appellees.
Witt was on his brief.

.M. George G. De

Mn. JusTioE PEcmaAx, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It will be noticed that the first question is based upon the
facts that the bank, at-the time the dividends were declared
and paid, was solvent, and that the stockholders receiving the
dividends acted in good faith and believed that the same
were paid out of the profits made by the bank.
The sections of the -Revised Statutes which are applicable to
the questions involved herein are set forth in the margin.'
1 SEc. 5199. The directors of any association may, semi-annually, declare a dividend of so much of the net profits of the association as they
shall judge expedient; but each association shall, before the declaration of
a dividend, carry one tenth part of its net profits of the preceding half year
to its surplus, fund until the same shall amount to twenty per centum of its
capital stock.
SEC. 5204. No association, or any member theriof, shall, during the
time it shall continue its banking operations, withdraw, or permit to be
.withdrawn, either in the form of dividends or otherwise, any portion of its
capital. If losses have at any time been sustained by any such association,
equal to or exceeding its undivided profits then on hand, no dividend shall
be made; and no dividend shall ever be made by any association, while it
continues its banking operations, to an amount greater than its net profits
then on hand, deducting therefrom its losses and bad debts. All debts due
to any associations, on which interest is past due and unpaid for a period

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The complainant bases his right to recover in this suit
upon the theQry that the capital of the corporation was a
trust fund for the payment of creditors entitled to a portion
of six months, unless the same are well secured, and in process of collection,
shall be considered bad debts within the meaning of this section. But nothing in this section shall prevent the reduction of the capital stock of the
association under section fifty-one hundred and forty-three.
Sc. 5205. (As amended by section 4 of the act approved June 30,
1876, 19 Stat. 63.) Every association which shall have failed to pay up its
capital stock, as required by law, and every association whose capital stock
shall have become impaired by losses or. otherwise, shall, within three
months after receiving notice thereof from the Comptroller of the Currency, pay the deficiency in the capital stock, by assessment upon the
shareholders pro rata for the amount of capital stock held by each , and
the Treasurer of the United States shall withhold the interest upon all bonds
held by him in trust for any such association, upon notification from the
Comptrpller of the Currency, until otherwise notified by him. If any such
association. shall fail to pay up its capital stock, and shall refuse to go into
liquidation, as provided by law, for three months after receiving notice
from the Comptroller, a receiver may be appointed to close up the business
.of the association, according to the provisions of section fifty-two hundred
and thirty-four: And provided, That if any shareholder or shareholders of
such bank shall neglect or refuse, after three months' notice, to pay the assessment, as provided in this section, it shall be the duty of the board of directors to cause a sufficient amount of the capital stock of such shareholder
or shareholders to be sold at public auction (after thirty days' notice shall be
given by posting such notice of sale in the office of the bank, and by publishing such notice in a newspaper of the city or town in which the bank
is located, or in a newspaper published nearest thereto,) to make good the
deficiency, and the balance, if any, shall be returned to such delinquent
shareholder or shareholders.
SEc. 5140. At least fifty per centum of the capital stock of every association shall be paid in befdre it shall be authorized to commence business;
and the remainder of the capital stock of such association shall be paid in
instalments of at least ten per centum each, on the whole amount of the
capital, as frequently as one instalment at the end of each succeeding
month from the time it shall be authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency to commence business; and the payment of each instalment shall be
certified. to the Comptroller, under oath, by the president or cashier of the
association.
SEC. 5141. Whenever any shareholder, or his assignee, fails to pay any
instalment on the stock when the same is required by the preceding section to be paid, the directors of such association may sell the stock of
such delinquent shareholder at public auction, having given three weeks'
previous notice thereof in a newspaper published and of general circula-

McDONALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court

thereof, and having been paid in the way of dividends to the
shareholders that portion can be recovered back in an actidn
of this kind for the purpose of paying the debts of the corporation. He also bases his right to recover upon the terms
of section 5204 of the Revised Statutes.
We think the theory of a trust fund has no application
to a case of this kind. When a corporation is solvent, the
theory that its capital is a trust fund upon which there is
any lien for the payment of its debts has in fact very little
foundation. No general creditor has any lien upon the fund
under such circumstances, and the right of the corporation
to' deal with its property is absolute so long as it doe8 not
violate its charter or the law applicable to such corporation.
In Graham v. Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 148, 161, itwas said by Mr. Justice Bradley, in the course of his opinion,
that "When a corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far
civilly dead that its property may be administered as a trust
fund for the benefit of its stockholders and creditors. And
a court of equity, at the instance of the proper parties, will
tion in the city or county where the association is located, r if no newspaper is published in said city or county, then in a newspaper published
nearest thereto, to any person who will pay the highest price therefor, to
be not less than the amount due thereon, with the expenses of advertisement and sale; and the excess, if any, shall be paid to the delinquent shareholder. If no bidder can be found who will pay for such stock the amount
due thereon to the association, and the cost of advertisement and sale, the
amount previously paid shall be forfeited to the association, and such stock
shall be sold as the directors may order, within six months from the time
of such forfeiture, and if not sold it shall be cancelled and deducted from
the capital stock of the association. If any such cancellation and reduction shall reduce the capital of the association below the minimum of capital required by law, the capital stock shall, within thirty days from the date
of such cancellation, be increased to the required amount; in default of
which a receiver may be appointed, according to the provisions of section
fifty-two hundred and thirty-four, to close up the business of the association.
Snc. 5151. The shareholders of every national banking association shall
be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, 'and not one for another, for all contracts, debts and engagements of such association, to the
extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in
addition to the amount vested in such shares. (The balance of this section
is ImmateriaL)
VOL. cLxxiv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

then make those funds trust funds, which, in other circumstances, are as much the absolute property of the corporation
as any man's property is his."
And in Hollin. v. BrierftId Coal c

IrTon Company, 150

U. S. 371, 383, 385, it was stated by Mr. Justice Brewer,
in delivering the opinion of the court, and speaking of the
theory of the capital of a corporation being a trust fund, as
follows:
"In other words, and that is the idea which underlies all
these expressions in reference to 'trust' in connection with
the property of a corporation, the .corporation is an entity,
distinct from its stockholders as from its creditors. Solvent,
it holds its property as any individual holds his, free from the
touch of a creditor who has acquired no- lien; free also from
the touch of a stockholder who, though equitably interested
in, has no legal right to, the property. Becoming insolvent,
the equitable interest of the stockholders in the property,
together with their conditional liability to the creditors, places
the property in a condition of trust, first, for the creditors, and
then for the stockholders. Whatever of trust there is arises
from the peculiar and diverse equitable rights of the stockholders as against the corporation in its property and their
conditional liability to its creditors. It is rather a trust in the
administration of the assets after, possession by a court of
equity than a trust attaching to the property, as such, for the
direct benefit of either creditor or stockholder."
And also:
"The officers of a corporation act in a fiduciary capacity in
respect to its property in their hailds, and may be called to
an account for fraud, or, sometimes, even mere mismanagement in respect thereto; but, as between itself and its creditors, the corporation is simply a debtor, and does not hold its
property in trust, or subject to a lien in their favor, in any
other sense than does an ihdividual debtor. That is certainly
the general rule, and if there be any exceptions thereto they
are not presented by any of the facts in this case. lNeither
the insolvency of the corporation, nor the execution of an
illegal trust, deed, nor the failure to collect in full all stock

McDONALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

subscriptions, nor all together, gave to these simple contract
creditors any lien upon the property of the corporation, nor
charged any direct trust thereon."
Other cases are cited in the opinion as holding the same
doctrine.
In Wabash &c. Railway Company v. Ham, 114 U. S. 587,
594, Mr. Justice Gray, in delivering the opinion of the court,
said:
"The property of a corporation is doubtless a trust fund for
the payment of its debts, in the sense that when 'the -corporation is lawfully dissolved and all its business wound up, or
when it is insolvent, all its creditors are entitled in equity
to have their debts paid out of the corporate property before
any distribution thereof among the stockholders. It is also
true, in the case of a corporation as in that of a natural
person, that any conveyance of property of the debtor, without authority of law, and in fraud of existing creditors, is void
as against them."
These cases, while not involving precisely the same question
now before us, show there is no well-defined lien of creditors
upon the capital of a corporation while the latter is a solvent
and going concern, so as to permit creditors to question, at
the time, the disposition of the property.
The bank being solvent, although it paid its dividends out
of capital, did not pay them out of a trust fund. Upon the
subsequent insolvency of the bank and the appointment of a
receiver, an action could not be brought by the latter to recover
the dividends thus paid on the theory that they were paid.
from a trust fund, and therefore were liable to be xrecovered
back.
It is contended on the part of the complainant, however,
that if the assets of the bank are impressed with a trust in
favor of its creditors when it is insolvent, they must be impressed with the same trust when it is solvent; that the mere
fact that the value of the assets of the corporation has sunk
below the amount of its debts, although as yet unknown to
anybody, cannov possibly make a new contract between the
corporation and its creditors. In case of insolvency, however,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the recovery of the money paid in the ordinary way without
condition is allowed, not on the ground of contract to repay,
but because the money thus paid was in. equity the money of
the creditor; that it did not belong to the bank, and the bank
in paying could bestow no title in the money it paid to one
who did not receive it bona fide and for value. The assets
of the bank while it is solvent may clearly not be impressed
with a trust in favor of creditors, and yet that trust may be
created by the very fact of the insolvency and the trust en.forced by a receiver as the representative of all the creditors.
But we do not wish to be understood as deciding that the
doctrine of a trust fund does in truth extend to a shareholder
receiving a dividend, in good faith believing it is paid out of
profits, even though the bank at the time of the payment be
in fact insolvent. That question is not herein presented to
us, and we express no opinion in regard to it. We only say,
that if such a dividend be recoverable, it would be on the principle of a trust fund.
Insolvency is a most important and material fact, not only
with individuals but with corporations, and with the latter as
with the former the mere fact of its existence may change
radically and materially its rights and obligations. Where
there is no statute providing what particular act shall be
evidence of insolvency or bankruptcy, it may be and it sometimes is quite difficult to determine the fact of its existence
at any particular period of time. Although no trust exists
while the corporation is solvent, the fact which creates the
trust is the insolvency, and when that fact is established at
that instant the trust arises. To prove the instant of creation
may be almost impossible, nd yet its existence at some time
may very easily be proved. What the precise nature and
extent of the trust is, even in such case, may be somewhat
diffibult to accurately define, but it may be admitted in some
form and to some extent to exist in a case of insolvency.
Hence it must be admitted that the law does create a distinction between solvency and insolvency, and that from the
moment when the latter condition is established the legality
of acts thereafter performed will be decided by -very different

McDOALD, Receiver, v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

principles than in a case of solvency. And so of acts committed in contemplation of insolvency. The fact of insolvency
must be proved in order to show the act was one committed
in contemplation thereof.
Without reference to the statute, therefore, we think the
right to recover the dividend paid while the bank was solvent
would not exist.
But it is urged on the part of the complainant that section
520d4 of the Revised Statutes makes the payment of a dividend
out of capital illegal and ultra virs of the corporation, and
that money. thus paid remains the property of the corporation,
and can be followed into the hands of any volunteer.
The section provides that "no association, or any membei
thereof, shall, during the time it shall continue its banking
operations, withdraw, or permit to be withdrawn, either in, the
form of dividends or otherwise, -any portion of its capital."
What is meant by this language? Has a shareholder withdrawn or permitted to be withdrawn in the form of a dividend
any portion of the capital of the bank when he has simply
and in good faith received a dividend declared by a board of
directors of which he was not a member, and which dividend
he honestly supposed was declared only out of profits? Does
he in such case within the meaning of the statute withdraw
or permit to be withdrawn a portion of the capital? The law
prohibits the making of a dividend by a national bank from
its capital or to an amount greater than its net profits then on
hand, deducting therefrom its losses and bad debts. The fact
of the declaration of a dividend is in effect the assertion by
the board of directors that the dividend is made out of profits.
Believing that the dividend is thus made, the shareholder in
good faith receives his portion of it. Can it be said that in
thus. doing he withdraws or permits to be withdrawn any portion of the capital of the corporation? We think he does not
withdraw it by the mere reception of his proportionate part of
the dividend. The withdrawal was initiated by the declaration
of the dividend by the board of directors, and was consummated
on their part when they permitted payment to be made in
accordance with the declaration. We think this language

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

implies some positive or affirmative act on the part of the
shareholder by which he knowingly withdraws the capital or
some portion thereof, or with knowledge permits some act
which results in the withdrawal, and which might not have
been so withdrawn without his action. The permitting to be
withdrawn cannot be founded upon the simple receipt of a
dividend under the facts stated above.
One is not usually said to permit an act which he is wholly
ignorant of, nor would he be said to consent to an act of the
commission of which he had no knowledge. Ought it to be
said that he withdraws or permits -the withdrawal by ignorantly yet in entire good faith receiving his proportionate part
of the dividend? Is each shareholder an absolute insurer that
dividends are paid out of profits? Must he employ experts to
examine the books of the bank previous to receiving each
dividend? Few shareholders could make such examination
themselves. The shareholder takes the fact that a dividend
has been declared as an assurance that it was declared out of
profits and not but of capital, because he knows that the statute prohibits any declaration of a dividend out of capital.
Knowing that a dividend from capital would be illegal, he
would receive the dividend as an assurance that the bank was
in a prosperous condition and with unimpaired capital. Under
such circumstances we cannot think that Congress intended
by the use of the expression "withdraw or permit to be withdrawn, either in the form of dividends, or otherwise," any portion of its capital, to include the case of the passive receipt of
a dividend by a shareholder in the bona jUe belief that the
dividend was paid out of profits, while the bank was in fact
solvent. We think it would be an improper construction of
the language of the statute to hold that it covers such a case.
We are strengthened in our views as to the proper construction of this act by reference to some of its other sections. The
payment of the capital within a certain tinie is provided for
by sections 5140 and 5141. Section 5151 provides for the individual responsibility of each shareholder .to the extent of his
stock at the par value thereof in addition to the amount invested
therein. (These shareholders have already been assessed under

MoDONALD, Receiver, v. WILtIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

this section.) And section 5205 provides for the case of a corporation whose capital shall have become impaired by losses
or otherwise, and proceedings may be taken by the association
against the shareholders for the payment of the deficiency in
the capital within three months after receiving notice thereof
from the Comptroller. These various provisions of the
statute impose a very severe liability upon the part of
holders of national bank stock, and while such provisions are
evidently imposed for the purpose of securing reasonable safety
to those who deal with the banks, we may nevertheless say,
in view of this whole system of liability, that it is unnecessary,
and that it would be an unnatural construction of the language
of section 5204: to hold that in a case such as this a shareholder,
by the receipt of a dividend from a solvent bank, had withdrawn or permitted to be withdrawn any portion of its capital.
We may concede that the directors who declared the dividend under such circumstances violated the law, and that their
act was therefore illegal, but the reception of the dividend by
the shareholder in good faith, as mentioned in the question,
was not a wrongful or designedly improper act. Hence the
liability of the shareholder should not be enlarged by reason
of the conduct of the directors. They may have rendered
" themselves liable to prosecution, but the liability of the shareholder is different in such a case, and the receipt of a dividend
under the circumstances is different from an act which may be
sitid to be generally illegal, such as the purchase of stock in
one national bank by another national bank for an.investment
merely, which is never proper. ConcordFirst.NationalBanko
v. Hawkins, just decided, ante, 364.
The declaration and payment of a dividend is part of the
course of business of these corporations. It is the thing-for
which they are established, and its payment is looked for as
the appropriate result of the business which has been done.
The presumption of legality attaches to its declaration and
payment, because declaring it, is to assert that it is payable out
of the profits, As the statute .has provided a remedy under
section 5205 for the impairment of the capital which includes
the case of an impairment produced by the payment of a divi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Kentucky Bank Tax Cases.

dend, we think the payment and receipt of a dividend under
the circumstances detailed in the question certified do not permit of its recovery back by a receiver appointed upon the subsequent insolvency of the bank.
The facts in the various English cases cited by counsel for
complainant are so entirely unlike those which exist in this
case that no useful purpose would be siibserved by a reference
to them. Not one holds that a dividend declared under such
facts as this case assumes can be recovered back in such an
action as this.
We answer the first question in the negative. The second
question relates to the jurisdiction of a court of equity over an
action of this nature. It is evident that the question was propounded to meet the case of an affirmative answer to the first
question.
In that event the second would require an answer. As we
answer the first question in the negative and the second question was scarcely touched upon in the argument, we think it
unnecessary to answer it in order to'enable the court below to
proceed to judgment in the case.
The first question will be certified in the negative.

KENTUCKY
BANK TAX CASES.
U
There were twenty-six of these cases in all. Of these, five
were decided on the 3d of April, 1899, and are reported in
volume 173, U. S. Reports, viz.: CITIZENS' SAvmGs BANx OF
OWENSBORO V. OWENSBORO, at page 636; DEPOSIT BANK
or, OWENSBORO V. OWENSBORO, at page 662; DEPosrr BANK OF
OwENsBORo v. DAvIESs COUNTY, at page 663; FARMERS' AND
TRADERS'

BANK OF OWENSBORO V. OWENSBORO, at page 663;

OwENsoRo NATIONAL BANK IV.OWENSBORO, at page 664, five
were affirmed May 15, 1899, by a divided court, viz.: No. 356,
STONE );. BANK OF KENTUCKY; No. 357, LOUISVILLE v. BANK OF
KENTUCKY; 1o. 360, STONE v. LOUISVILLE BANKING COMPANY;
No. 361, LOUISVILLE v. LOUISVILLE BANKING COMPANY; No. 387,

