COHN v. DALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

possession when the other papers were delivered. Had they
been shown, as they should have been, can it be denied that
they would have furnished strong corroboration of criminal
intent? Or that their destruction tended to make a case of
"strong and vehement suspicion" ?
The entire record considered, we are of opinioii.that restitution of the Olinde Rodrigues should be awarded, without damages, and that payment of the costs and expenses incident to
her custody and preservation, and of all costs in the cause except the fees of counsel, should be imposed upon the ship.
The decree of the District Court will be so modified, and
As modiied affirmed.
MR. JusTICE McK.Ex.& dissented on the ground that the
evidence justified condemnation.

COHN v. DALEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 186. Argued and submitted April 4, 5, 1899. =-Decided May 15, 1899.
For the reasons stated in the opinion of the court, it is precluded from,looking at the so-called statement of facts, and when they are excluded
from the record there is nothing left for review, and the judgment be-

low is affirmed.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.

.Mr. M1arcus A. Smith for appellant submitted on his brief.
Mr. James K. ]edington for appellee.
was on his brief.

Mr. James Reilly

MR. JusTICE McKENnA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to quiet title to certain mining claims in
the Territory of Arizona.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellant was plaintiff in the court below, and the
appellee was one of the defendants impleaded with A. J.
Mehan, Dewitt C. Turner and Bell H. Chandler.
Appellant claims to derive title from one A. J. Mehan
under an execution sale upon a judgment obtained by him
against Mehan in one of the justices' courts of Cochise
County, in said Territory, and a deed executed in pursuance
of such proceedings and purchase.
The appellee denied the ownership of appellant, and asserted
a superior right upon the following allegations: That on the
11th of April, 1890, and for more than five years before, she
and one James Daley were husband and wife, and lived
together as such. At the time of the marriage he owned no
money nor property of any kind, but that she had three
thousand dollars "in United States coin and currency;" and
prior to the 11th of April, 1890, she and Daley used all of
said money "in prospecting for, locating and procuring, preserving and maintaining titles to mines and mining claims,"
and owned the claims in controversy on the said 11th of
April. During the coverture she was uneducated and utterly
ignorant of the language, laws and customs of the United
States and the Territory, and Daley was fairly well versed
therein; and, confiding and relying on "the advice of her
said husband," advanced him her money "to procure, preserve
and maintain the title" to the mining claims, and he took
advantage of he ignorance and the confidence reposed in
him, "and took and kept the title to all of said mining claims,
and interests in mining claims in his own name," without her
knowledge or consent, and on the 11th -of April, 1890, he
abandoned her, and has not since returned to or communicated.
with her.
On the 2d of September, 1890, Daley conveyed the claims
by deed duly acknowledged and recorded in the recorder's
office of Cochise County, of said Territory, to A. J. Mehan,
who gave no value therefor, and who had 'full notice and
knowledge of all her equities.
The appellant, claims to own the claims by virtue of an
attachment, judgment, execution sale thereunder, and a con-

COIN v. DALMY.
Opinion of the Court.

stable's deed in the case of Ado4ph Cohn v. A. "J. Wehan.
Cohn was plaintiff in the action and the purchaser at'the'sale,
and at that time and long prior thereto had full notice and
knowledge of her equities, and notice and knowledge that
Mehan had given no value for his conveyance. On the 15th
of September, 1890, Mehan conveyed an undivided half
interest in the claims, by a deed duly acknowledged and
recorded, to Dewitt C. Turner, and on the 22d of November,
1890, a like deed of one third interest to the defendant Bell
H. Chandler, neither of whom gave value for his conveyance,
and both of -whom. had notice of her equities, and of Mehan's
knowledge thereof, and that Mehan had given no value for
his conveyance. On the 8th day of January, 1891, the defendant Turner conveyed, an undivided one sixth to the
defendant F. C. Fisher, who had knowledge of her equities;
and the notice and knowledge of the' prior parties. On the
15th of October, 1890, she commenced an action for divorce
from said Daley, and on the 14th day of May, 1891, a decree
was rendered therein'in her favor dissolving the marriage and
awarding her the mining claims in controversy, and permitting
her to resume her maiden name of "Angela Dias."
On the 18th of October, 1890, and before Cohn bought the
claims, she commenced an action against Daley, Mehan and
Turner to quiet the title to the claims, and caused to be filed
in the recorder's office of the county where the property was
situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing a
statement of the nature of the action and of her ownership of
and a description of the claims; and Adolph Cohn took title
from Mehan after the filing and recording of such notice. She prayed to be decreed owner of the claims, and that defendants be adjudged to have no interest in them, and that
their deeds be cancelled.
The other defendants made default, and the trial proceeded
on the issues made between appellant and appellee, and judgment was rendered for her and duly entered. A motion for a
new trial wa made, but was overruled on the 26th day of
November, 1892.
A bill of exceptions was submitted by the appellant on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

1st of December, 1892, and settled atid allowed on the 15th of
said month by the judge who presided at the trial, after objections made by appellee were heard and considered.
The bill of exceptions recites "that on the 27th of May,
1892, the above cause came on regular for trial, and during
the progress thereof the following proceedings were had, as
more fully appears in the statement of facts filed herein expressly referred to, and the exceptions to rulings of court as
therein shown are made a part of thisbill of exceptions."
Then follows an enumeration of the rulings and the motion
for new trial and the ruling thereon.
A statement of facts or what is called such was submitted
to the counsel of appellee on the 16th of December, 1892. It
was entitled in the court and cause, and contained the following recital:
"Transcript of shorthand notes of testimony, etc., taken
from the trial of the above-entitled cause, at the court room of
said court, in the city of Tombstone, on Friday, the twentyseventh day of May, A.D. 1892, at 9.30 o'clock A.M., before the
court (Hon. Richard E. Sloan, presiding) sitting without a jury,
in the presence of W. 0. Staehle, Esq., attorney for, and W. H.
Barnes, Esq., of counsel with, plaintiff, and James Reilly, Esq.,
attorney for defendant Angela Dias de Daley; Allen R. English, Esq., for counsel."
Following this recital is a verbatim transcript of the proceedings and of the evidence by question and answer, and of
the rulings of the court. It concluded by the following recital:
The foregoing 102 pages and documents herein referred to
and to be copied into the transcript of the clerk when directed
is submitted to the opposite party, the defendant, by plaintiff
as a full statement of facts in the trial of this cause, and is by
the plaintiff agreed to as such.
"Dec. 16, 1892.
W. H. BARS,
k

Att'yfor Plaintiff."
The record contains the following:
"We agree that the foregoing -pages

of typewriting en-

CORN v. DALEY.

543

Opinion of the Court.

titled in the above cause contain a transcript of the reporter's
notes taken at the trial of said cause, which was filed therein
with the clerk of the court November 25, 1892, but said
pages also contain matter not in such transcript when so filed,.
to wit:
"' Clerk will here copy said notice in transcript,' and many
such commands, commencing on page 3 of transcript, all com-manding or directing the clerk to insert in his transcript all
the documentary evidence introduced by plaintiff (appellant)
at the trial, but none, except in one instance, of the documentary evidence of defendant (appellee), though defendant introduced in evidence many documents, including the dep6sition
of A. J. Mehan, as shown by said transcript, pages 37 to 40,
inc., and the alleged ' statement of facts' is not such nor even
a fair statement of the evidence, and we do not agree thereto.
JAES REILLY,

AtIorney for Angela -Dias.
ALLEN R. ENG isa,

Of Couneel."
"Counsel for plaintiff in the above-entitled cause of (John
v. .Mehan et at. having heretofore, to wit, on the 16th day of
December, 1892, submitted to me a statement of facts in said
cause, and the same having been thereupon submitted to
counsel for defendants and being by them disagreed to as correct and being likewise found by me to be incomplete because
omitting documentary evidence, said counsel for plaintiff did
thereafter, to wit, on the 6th day of March, 1893, submit the
foregoing as an amended statement of facts in said cause, and
the same was on said sixth day of March, 1893, by me approved and signed.
Rmc a E. SLoA-N, Judge."
A completed statement was not filed till May, 1893. The
judgment was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and the case was then brought here.
If the so-called statement of facts was -filea in time under
the Arizona Revised Statutes, it was not a "statement of the
facts in the nature of a special verdict made and certified by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the court below" under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat.
27, 28. We must assume therefore that the evidence supports
the judgment.' MhrshaZl v. Burtis, 172 U. S. 630.
Was the statement filed in time to become a part of the bill
of exceptions ? Certainly not, if it was not on file at the time
of the settlement of the bill of exceptions or did not afterward
become a part of the record. It was submitted on the 16th
of December, but not agreed to. It was not approved and
signed by the judge who tried the case until March, 1893, and
not filed until May, 1893.
The Revised Statutes of Arizona provide as follows:
"843. (SEc. 195.)' After the trial of any cause either party
may make out a written statement of the facts given in evidence on the trial and submit the same to the opposite party
or his attorney for inspection. If the parties or their attorneys agree upon such statement of facts, they shall sign the
same, and it shall then be submitted to the judge, who shall,
if he find it correct, approve and sign it, atnd the same shall
be filed with the clerk during the term.
"844.

(SEC. 196.) If the parties do not agree upon such

statement of facts, or if the judge do not approve or sign it,
the parties may submit their respective statements to the
judge, who shall from his own knowledge, with the aid of
such statements, during the term, make out and sign and file
with the clerk a correct statement of the facts proven on the
trial, and such statement shall constitute a part of the record.
"845. (SEC.. 197.) The court may by an order entered upon
the'6Tecord during the term authorize the statement of facts to
be made up and signed and filed in vacation, at any time not
exceeding thirty days after the adjournment of the term."
The record shows that the November term of the court at
which the case was tried was finally adjourned December 29,
1892. The statement was therefore not filed within the time
required by the statute, and cannot be considered as part of
the record.
The rulings of the court, as exhibited in the bill of exceptions, are assigned as error. But for an understanding of the
rulings the testimony in the case is necessary, and we are

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST CO.

545

Opinion of the Court.

precluded from looking at it, because it is not properly a part
of the bill of exceptions, for the reasons we have given.
It follows that on the record there is nothing for our review,
and judgment is

NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY.
AFFEAL FROM TEE SUPREME COUET OF THE TERErTORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 169. Resubmltted April 17, 1899. -Decded

May 15,1899.

The provision in the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, exempting from taxation
the right of way granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
does not operate to exempt the right of way when acquired from private
owners and not from the United States; and the judgment in this case
made at this term and reported on page 186 of 172 U. S., having been
made under a mistake of facts, is modified to that extent.
The assessments on the superstructures, on so much of the right of way as
was taxable, were not assessments of personal property, but were clearly
assessments of real estate; and the fact that the improvements were
designated by name, and some of them given a separate valuation, did
not Invalidate their assessment as real estate.-

THm statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. F. W. Clancy for appellant.
-Mr. C. N. Staiv-y, .A&.
lay for appellees.
M& JusTIcE

. D. .Kmnna and .Mr. Robert Dun-

McKE FA delivered the opinion of the court.

1. This case was submitted with No. 106, which was between the same parties, and on the -authority of the opinion
in that case the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory was affirmed. 172 U. S. 171, 186.
The cases were argued together, and it was supposed involved
identically the same questions dependent upon a statement of
facts which were stipulated. N6 distinction between the cases
Vol. CLXXV-85

