OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

way is still known in the trade as lumber; advertised as
lumber; handled as lumber; shipped as lumber; bought and
sold by the thousand feet like lumber.
We also think that some light upon the proper construction
of the words "manufacture of wood" in paragraph 181 is
afforded by the fact that it is used in connection with "house
or cabinet furniture of wood, wholly or partly finished," and
is followed by the words "or of which wood is the component
material of chief value." This would indicate an article
"made up" of wood analogous to furniture or other article in
which wood is used alone or in connection with some other
material. It seems to us quite clear that it could not- have
been intended to apply to lumber which bad only passed beyond the stage of planed lumber by being tongued and
grooved.
Upon the facts of the present case we are of opinion that
the imports in question should have been classified as "dressed
lumber," and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
therefore
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE TRUST COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE,
NEW ALBANY AND CHICAGO RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOP THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 263. Argued April 24, 199. -Decided

May 22, 1899.

The New Albany Railway Company, whose road was in several States, guaranteed bonds of a Kentucky railway company to a large amount. It attempted by suit to avoid this guarantee as ultra vires. Its contention was
sustained by the Circuit Court, but that decree was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and this court has sustained that decision. After the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Mills, a creditor of the company,
commenced suit in the Circuit Court of the United States. The company appeared and confessed judgment, and execution was issued and
returned unsatisfied. Thereupon the creditor filed a bill praying for the

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

675

Statement of the Case.
appointment of a receiver for the entire road, and that the court would
administer the trust fund, and order the road sold, and the proceeds
from the sale divided among the different creditors according to their
priority. The New Albany Company admitted the allegations of the
bill, and interposed no objections, whereupon a receiver was appointed.
These proceedings took place on the same day. Subsequently proceedings were commenced at different times for the foreclosure of different
mortgages, all of which suits were consolidated. Then the Trust Company, as holder of some of the guaranteed bonds, intervened. Then a
decree of foreclosure was entered, and a sale orddred, made and confirmed. Then the Trust Company filed another intervening petition, charging that Mills' proceedings had been procured by the New Albany
Company for the purpose of hindering and delaying the general or unsecured creditors in the enforcement of their debts, and praying that the
decree of foreclosure might be set aside, and other prayers. This was
denied, and a sale was ordered. An appeal by the Trust Company to the
Circuit Court of Appeals resulted in the affirmation of the decree below.
The proceedings being brought here on certiorari, it is Held that, under
the circumstances as presented by this record, there was error; that the
charge of collusion was one compelling investigation, and that the case
must be remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to set aside the
confirmation of sale; to inquire whether it is true, as alleged, that the
foreclosure proceedings were made in pursuance of an agreement between the bondholder and stockholder to preserve the rights of both,
and destroy the interests of unsecured creditors; and that, if it shall
appear that such was the agreement between these parties, then to refuse to permit the confirmation of sale until the interests of unsecured
creditors have been preserved.

THE facts in this case are as follows: The Louisville, New
Albany and Chicago Railway Company, hereinafter called the
New Albany Company, in 1889 and 1890 placed a guarantee
upon $1,185,000 of the first mortgage bonds of a Kentucky
railroad corporation. In April, 1890, the New Albany Company, guarantor, commenced a suit in the Circuit Court of thd

United States for the District of Kentucky against divers
parties claiming to hold such bonds, to have the guarantee
declared void. In 1894 that court rendered a final decree, sustaining its contention, and adjudging the guarantee ultra vires
and void. 69 Fed. Rep. 431. From that decree the holders
of the guarantee bonds appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which, in June, 1896, reversed the
decree of cancellation, and held the guarantee binding. 43

OCTOBER TER,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

U. S. App. 550. On application of the New Albany Company
the case was then removed on certiorari to this court, and at
the time of the proceedings hereinafter referred to was still
undecided. Judgment therein has since been entered sustaining the guarantee. louisville, New Albany and Chicago
Railway Conpany v. Louisville Trust Company, ante, 552.
After the decision in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and on
August 24, 1896,, one John T. Mills, Jr., commenced an action
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Indiana, alleging that he was a creditor of the New Albany
Company to the amount ol $494,911.35. That company appeared and confessed judgment, and an execution was issued
and returned unsatisfied. Whereupon Mills filed his bill of
complaint in the same court, based upon this unsatisfied execution, and praying the appointment of a receiver. The bill set
forth the property belonging to the judgment debtor, the New
Albany Company, alleged that its capital stock amounted to
$16,000,000, of which $7,000,000 was preferred; that its outstanding funded debt, divided into five classes, amounted to
$7,700,000 in six per cent bonds, and $6,100,000 in five per
cent bonds. The bill also alleged the existence of a floating
debt, amounting to nearly $1,000,000, consisting of outstanding notes and other obligations, held by the complainant and
other bonafide creditors. It then set forth the guarantee of
the bonds of the Kentucky railroad company, the proceedings
in court by which the guarantee had been sustained, and
averred that the officers of the defendant company repprted a
diminution of current earnings by reason of a short wheat
crop and lessened traffic, and that it would be impracticable
to realize from the earnings after the payment of operating
expenses, taxes and rentals a sum sufficient to pay the shortly
accruing mortgage interest. The bill also alleged many matters, among others the fact that the lines of the New Albany
Company were in three different States and subject to the
jurisdiction of different courts, which seemed to justify the taking possession of the property by a receiver to prevent its dismemberment or'any disturbance of its continued operations as
a common carrier. The prayer of the bill was;

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. W'Y.

677

Statement of the Case.

"Inasmuch, therefore, as the complainant has no adequate
remedy at law for the grievances bereinbefore stated and can
only have relief in equity, he files this bill of complaint in
behalf of himself and all others in like relation to the said
property, and prays that due process of law issue against the
defendant, the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway
Company, and that it be summoned to appear in this court
and answer this bill, but without oath, all answers under oath
being hereby expressly waived under the rules to stand'to and
abide by such orders and decrees as the judges of this court
may from time to time enter in the premises; that for the
purpose of enforcing the rights of complainant and all other
creditors of said insolvent corporation according to their due
equities and priorities, and to preserve the unity of the said
railway system as it has been and now is maintained and
operated, and to prevent the disruption thereof by the separate
attachments, executions or levies, this court will forthwith
appoint a receiver for the entire railroad.

.

.

.

That the

court Will fully *administer the trust fund, in which the complainant is interested as a judgment creditor, and will for
such purpose marshal all the assets of said insolvent corporation, and ascertain the ,several liens and priorities existing
upon the said system-of railways or any part thereof; and the
amount due upon each and every of such liens, whether by
mortgage or otherwise, and enforce and decree the rights,
liens and equities of each and all of the creditors of the said
Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, as
the same may be finally ascertained and decreed by the court.
-upon the respective claims and interventions of several of such
creditors or lienors in and to, not only the said line of railroad,
appurtenances and equipment, or any part of them, but also
to and upon each and every portion of the assets and property
of the said insolvent corporation, and that said railroad and
all the assets of such corporation shall be sold by .proper
decree of the court, -and the proceeds divided among the different creditors according as their liens and priorities may be
decreed by the court, and for such other and further relief as
to the court may seem properand as may be necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

further enforce the rights and equities of the complainant and
all other creditors of such corporation."
The New Albany Company appeared by its general solicitor,
filed its answer admitting the material allegations of the bill
and interposing no objections; whereupon the court made an
order appointing as receiver a gentleman who was the vice
president of the company and its general manager. The
order of appointment was in the ordinary form of such
orders.
All of these proceedings, including the filing of the original
complaint, the confession of judgment, the issue and return of
the execution, the filing of the bill and the appointment of
a receiver, took place on the same day, to wit, August 24.
Up to this time there had been no default in any of the
interest due on the several series of bonds. On November 12,
1896, the trustees in one of the mortgages, one executed May
1, 1890, filed a bill of foreclosure, alleging default in the payment of interest on November 1, 1896. On the same day the
trustee in another mortgage, dated January 1, 1896, filed a
similar bill, alleging default on October 1, 1896. On November, 24, 1896, the court, on application of the receiver,
entered an order authorizing the receiver to borrow $200,000
on receiver's certificates, payable out of the earnings, and expend the same in the construction of new bridges, the repair
of freight cars and engines, the ballasting and making new
alignment of track, and the equipment of engines and cars
with air brakes and automatic couplers. What actipn was
taken under this order is not disclosed in the record, although
the final decree provided for payment in advance of the bonds
"of any indebtedness of said receiver which has not been or
shall not be paid out of the earnings and income of the property coming into the hands of said receiver." On the 14th
day of December, 1896, the trustee in a mortgage executed
September 1, 1894, commenced foreclosure, alleging default
on December 1, 1896. On the 21st of December, 1896, an
order of consolidation was made of these several foreclosure
suits.
On the 23d of January, 1897, the petitioner, the Louisville

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

679

Statement of the Case.

Trust Company, filed its petition asking generally to be admitted to appear in the suit and to take such steps and proceedings in its own behalf as it might deem necessary, which
petition was sustained, and leave granted accordingly. This
petition alleged the indorse iaent heretofore referred to of
the bonds of the Kentucky- railway company by the New
Albany Company, that it, the petitioner, was the holder of
$125,000 of those bonds, and had obtained a decree adjudging the validity of the guarantee.
On the same day the various parties to the foreclosure suits
having all appeared and filed so far as was necessary answers
admitting the allegations of the bills, a decree was entered
foreclosing the three mortgages in suit and directing a sale
of the property.
On February 27, 1897, the Louisville Trust Company filed a
full intervening petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the
guarantee of the Kentucky bonds, its ownership of $125,000
of them, the decree of the Court of Appeals and the certiorari obtained from this court by the New Albany Company,
the proceedings in the action instituted by John T. Mills, Jr.,
in respect to which it alleged that "the said J. T. Mills, Jr.,
claimed to be a creditor to the amount of $4:94,911.35, but
did not disclose or discover to the court in his proceedings
that he was not a general creditor, but he was at the time,
if a creditor at all, secured with collateral securities, the value
whereof is unknown to your petitioner. And your petitioner
charges that the proceedings in behalf of the said John T.
Mills, Jr., were procured by the said New Albany Company
for the purpose of hindering and delaying the general or
unsecured creditors of the said company in the enforcement
of their debts; and that since the entry of the said order of
appointment no step has been taken in the said cause, either
to ascertain or to bring into court the assets, which are subject to the payment of the said debts, and no proceeding has
been taken to notify or to bring before the court the said general or unsecured creditors." It then set forth the filing of
the foreclosure bills, the entry of the decree of foreclosure,
and alleged "that prior to the entry of the said decree the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

holders of the bonds secured by the mortgages to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company and the Central Trust Company aforesaid, and the holders of the preferred and common
stock of the said Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company, or a part thereof, had entered into an arrangement or agreement for the purpose of procuring the sale of
the said property, its purchase by and in behalf of the parties
entering into such combination and reorganization .thereof,
and the issue of securities to the said parties, including said
stockholders, without the payment of the debts and liabilities
of the said company, and for the purpose of hindering and
delaying the said creditors and with a view to prevent the
collection or enforcement of such debts and liabilities; and
that the said decree of sale was obtained by the said company
and said complainants in order to carry out such unlawful
purpose and to prevent the general or unsecured creditors of
the said company from having an opportunity to be heard
in matters arising in the said cause."
It also alleged that the New Albany Company was formed
by consolidation, and that one of the consolidating companies
was a corporation of Illinois and had its property in that
State; that it had no power to enter into such consolidation,
as had been decided by the Supreme Court of that State, and
therefore that the mortgages executed by the New Albany
Company and which were being foreclosed were not liens
upon so much of its property as had belonged to the Illinois
corporation and was situated in that State. It also claimed
that under the provisions in the mortgages there had been no
such default as justified a foreclosure, and prayed as follows:
"Wherefore, your petitioner prays that the decree of foreclosure and sale heretofore entered iii this cause be set aside,
that the pretended consolidations herein mentioned be adjudged void, and that the said mortgages before mentioned
be declared to be invalid; that this cause be referred to a
commissioner to ascertain and report what assets of the said
New Albany Company are embraced by any liens, and what
are not so included, and the aniounts and descriptions thereof;
and that, among other things, the master be directed to ascer-

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

681

Opinion of the Court.

tain Nhat portion of the capital stock has not been paid for,
and the amounts due thereon; and that the receiver herein
be directed to take steps to enforce the collection' of any
amounts due to the said company; that due and proper
advertisement be given for the proof of debts, and that said
master be directed to ascertain and report the names of the
creditors herein and the amounts of debts due to them; that
it be adjudged that the said master ascertain what net earnings have accrued, and shall hereafter accrue, from the operation of the said railway in the hands of the receiver, and
that the amount thereof be adjudged and declared to be a
fund to be distributed among the general and unsecured
creditors of the said company; and that all such other and
further proceedings be had for the sale of the assets of the
said company and the distribution thereof, according to law
and the rights of the parties."
On the 9th of March, 1897, its petition was denied. On
the 10th of March a sale was made by the master appointed
therefor, and on the same day his report thereof was filed and
the sale confirmed. An appeal was taken by the Louisville
Trust Company to the Court of Appeals of the Seventh
Circuit, which appeal was argued on the 16th day of November, 1897. On the 5th of January, 1898, the decree of
the Circuit Court was affirmed. 56 U. S. App. 208. Where'upon application was made to this court, and the proceedings
were brought before it by certiorari.
.Ar. wagar Sherley and .r.
ville Trust Company.

St. John BoyZ, for the Louis-

.Afr. Adrian E. ,oline for the Louisville, N.ew Albany and
Chicago Railway Company. .i6t. Herbert B. Turner, .fr.
George W. Hretzizger and Mr. E. C. Field were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions in this case are novel and important. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

arise oni the foreclosure of certain railroad mortgages, and
suggest to what extent the same rules and considerations
obtain in them as in the foreclosures of ordinary mortgages
upon real estate. It goes without saying that the proceeding
in the foreclosure of an ordinary mortgage on real estate is
simple and speedy. No one need be considered except the
mortgagor and mortgagee, and if they concur in the disposition of the foreclosure it is sufficient, and the court may
properly enter a decree in accordance therewith. Other
parties, although claiming rights in antagonism to both or
either mortgagor and mortgagee, may be considered outside
the scope of the foreclosure, and whatever rights they may
have may properly be relegated to independent suits.
But this court long since recognized the fact that in the
present condition of things (and all judicial proceedings must
be adjusted to facts as they are) other inquiries arise in railroad foreclosure proceedings accompanied by a receivership
than the mere matter of the amount of the debt of the mortgagor to the mortgagee. We have held in a series Qf cases
that the peculiar character and conditions of railroad property
not only justify but compel a court. entertaining foreclosure
proceedings to give tb certain limited unsecured claims a priority over the debts secured by the mortgage. It is needless
to, refer to the many cases in which this doctrine has been
affirmed. It may be, and has often been said, that this
ruling implies somewhat of a departure from the apparent
priority of right secured by a contract obligation duly made
and duly recorded, and yet this court, recognizing that a railroad is not simply private property, but also an instrument of
public service, has ruled that the character of its business, and
'the public obligations which it assufmes, justify a limited displacement of contract and recorded liens in behalf of temporary and unsecured creditors. These conclusions, while they
to a certain extent ignored the positive promises of contract
and recorded obligations, were enforced in obedience to equitable and public considerations. We refer to these matters
not for the sake of reviewing those decisions, but to note the
fact that foreclosure proceedings of mortgages covering ex-

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

683

Opinion of the Court.

tensive railroad properties are not necessarily conducted with
the limitations that attend the foreclosures of ordinary real
estate mortgages.
We notice, again, that railroad mortgages, or trust deeds, are
ordinarily so large in amount that on foreclosure thereof only
the mortgagees, or their representatives, can be considered
as probable purchasers. While exceptional cases may occur,
yet this is the.rule, as shown by the actual facts of foreclosure
proceedings,- as well as one which might be expected from
the value of the property and the amount of the mortgage.
We may not shut our eyes to any facts of common knowledge. We may not rightfully say that the contract of mortgage created certain rights, and that when those rights are
established they must be sustained in the courts, and no
inquiry can be had beyond those technical rights. We must,
therefore, recognize the fact; for it is a fact of common knowledge, that, whatever the legal rights of the parties may be,
ordinarily foreclosures of railroad mortgages mean not the
destr-uction of all interest of the mortgagor and a transfer to
the mortgagee alone of the full title, but that such proceedings
are carried on in the interests of all parties who have any
rights in the mortgaged property, whether as mortgagee,
creditor or mortgagor. We do not stop to inquire, because
the question is not presented by this record, whether a court
is justified in permitting a foreclosure and sale which leaves
any interest in the mortgagor, to wit, the railroad compafiy
and its stockholders, and ought not always to require an
extinction of all the mortgagor's interest and a full transfer to
the mortgagee, representing the bondholders. Assuming that
foreclosure proceedings may be carried on to some extent at
least'in the interests and for the benefit of both mortgagee and
mortgagor, (that is, bondholder and stockholder,) we observe
that no such proceedings can be rightfully carried to consummation which recognize and preserve any interest in the stockholders without also recognizing and preserving the interests,
not merely of. the mortgagee, but of every creditor of the corporation. In other words, if the bondholder wishes to foreclose
and exclude inferior lienholders or general unsecured creditors

684-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and stockholders he may do so, but a foreclosure which attempts to preserve any interest or right of the mortgagor in
the property after the sale must necessarily secure and preserve the prior rights of general creditors thereof. This is
based upon the familiar rule that the stockholder's interest in
the property is subordinate to the rights of creditors; first
of secured and then of unsecured creditors. And any arrangement of the parties by which the subordinate rights and
interests of the stockholders are attempted to be secured at
the expense of the prior rights of either class of creditors comes
within judicial denunciation.
Now, the intervening petition of the petitioner, duly verified,
directly charged that the foreclosure proceedings were for the
benefit alone of bondholder and stockholder and under an
agreement between the two for a sale and purchase for both,
and with a view of thereby excluding from any interest in the
property all unsecured creditors; that this agreement was
entered into after and in consequence of the decree of the
United States Court of Appeals adjudging the New Albany
Company liable on its guarantee. If that fact be true would
it not be, and we quote the language of the Court of Appeals,
"a travesty upon equity proceedings" . Can it be that when
in a court of law the right of an unsecured creditor is judicially
determined and that judicial, determination carries with it a
right superior to that of the mortgagor, the mortgagor and
mortgagee can enter into an agreement by which through the
form of equitable proceedings all the right of this unsecured
creditor may be wiped out, and the interest of both mortgagor
and mortgagee in the property preserved and continued? The
question carries its own answer. Nothing of the kind can be
tolerated.
Beyond the positive and verified statement of the petition
of the Louisville Trust Company are many facts appearing in
the record which strongly support this allegation. That a
corporation whose stock consists of $16,000,000, $7,000,000 of
which is preferred stock, all of which must be expected to be
wiped out if a mortgage interest of $13,800,000 is fully asserted,
hastens into court and confesses judgment on an alleged un-

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c.

'Y.

685

Opinion of the Court.

secured liability; on the, same day responds to an application
for a receiver and assents thereto; makes no effort during the
receivership to prevent default in interest obligations; tacitly,
at least, consents to an order made on application of the receiver for the issue of $200,000 worth of receiver's certificates,
in aid of betterments on the road, when the same sum might
have paid the interest and delayed the foreclosure; when
foreclosure bills are filed not only makes no denial, but admits
all the averments of mortgage obligation and default - in other
words, seems a debtor most willing to have all its property
destroyed, and this because of one short wheat crop; these
matters suggest, at least, that there is probable truth in the
sworn averment of the petitioner that all was done by virtue
of an agreement between mortgagee and mortgagor (bondholder and stockholder) to preserve the relative interests of
both, and simply extinguish unsecured indebtedness. When,
in addition.to this fact., it appears that these proceedings are
initiated within a few days after a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals-a decree final unless brought to this court for
review in its discretion by certiorarii; that a large amount of
unsecured indebtedness was by that decree cast upon the mortgagor, we cannot doubt that such a condition of things was
presented to the trial court that it ought, in discharge of its
obligations to all parties interested in the property, to have
made inquiry and ascertained that no such purpose as was
alleged in the intervening petition was to be consummated by
the foreclosure proceedings.
It is said by the appellee that the Louisville Trust Company
was dilatory, and that by reason thereof it was not entitled to
consideration in a court of equity. There is some foundation
for this contention, and yet there was not such delay as justifled the court in refusing to enter upon an inquiry. Indeed,
it does not appear that either the Circuit Court or the Circuit
Court of Appeals considered the petitioner dilatory or denied
its application on the ground of delay. It must be borne in
mind that the bill of complaint filed on August 24 by one who
had that day become, by consent of the defendant, a judgment
creditor, was afmrmatively "for -the purpose of enforcing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of complainant and all other creditors of said insolvent
corporation according to their due equities and priorities," and
to "decree the rights, liens and equities of each and all of the
creditors of the said Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railway Company as the same may be finally ascertained and decreed by the court upon the respective claims and interventions of several of such creditors or lienors in and to not only
the said line of railroad appurtenances and equipment or any
part of them, but also to and upon each and every portion of
the assets and property of the said insolvent corporation."
Although this bill was filed in the avowed interest of himself and all other creditors, no action was taken to notify any
creditors or to bring them into court to present their several
claims. Any creditor might well have waited, even with
knowledge of what had taken place, and after an examination of the bill thus filed, until publication or other notice.
Whether this petitioner was, in fact, aware of these proceedings is not disclosed. Even if it were, its waiting a reasonable
time for what in the ordinary course of procedure all creditors
had a right to expect, is not a neglect which destroys its
equities. It, and all other creditors, might justly assume that
this proceeding was initiated in good faith to subject the property of the common debtor to the payment of all its debts;
primarily it may be its secured debts, but also generally all
its debts, secured or unsecured, and that whenever it was necessary due notice would be given and all creditors called upon
to present their claims. It would not have been justified in
treating this proceeding as solely in the interest of the mort.gagee and mortgagor, the bondholder and stockholder, and for
the purpose of destroying all claims of unsecured creditors.
It.is true that the filing of the bills'of foreclosure was notice
of an intent to subject the property belonging to the mortgagor to the satisfaction of the mortgage. And for the purposes of the present inquiry it maybe conceded that the intervening petition disclosed no legal defence to the claims of the
mortgagees to foreclosure. In other words,, for the inquiry
we desire to pursue we shall assume without question that
the matters referred to in the petition in respect to the prop-

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

687

Opinion of the Court.

erty in Illinois, the decision of the Supreme Court of that
State and the effect of the attempted consolidation, and all
other matters stated or suggested, separately or together, constitute no valid defence to the foreclosure bills. But this foreclosure proceeding did not either directly or by suggestion
disclose any purpose to protect the mortgagor, the stockholder, at the expense of unsecured creditors. And, as heretofore stated, this unsecured creditor was not bound to presume
that there was any such purpose in the minds of the two parties to the foreclosure. So that its failure to intervene at the
first instant cannot be fatal delay or neglect.
It is also true that no evidence was offered by the petitibner
in support of the allegations of its petition, but it is not true
that in revising and reversing the final action of the Circuit
Court we are acting on mere suspicion, or disturbing. either
settled rules or admitted rights.- The allegations of this intervening petition as to the wrong intended and being consummated were specific and verified. The delay, under the
circumstances, was not such as to deprive the petitioner of a
right to be heard. The facts apparent on the face of the record were such as justified inquiry, and upon those facts, supported by the positive and verified allegations of the petitioner,
it was the duty of the trial court to have stayed proceedings,
and given time to produce evidence in support of the charges.
Taking them as a whole, they are very suggestive, independent of positive allegation; so suggestive, at least, that, when
a distinct and verified charge of wrong was made, the court
should have investigated it.
We cannot shut our eyes to the fact that one claiming to be
a general creditor for nearly half a million of dollars commences proceeding to establish his right, which, by the consent of the debtor, result on the very day in a judgment,
execution and return thereof unsatisfied, a bill for a receivership and the appointment of a receiver; and yet notwithstanding this was initiated in support of this large claim, as well as
for the protection of other unsecured creditors, shortly thereafter foreclosure proceedings are instituted and carried on to
completion, which absolutely ignore the rights of this alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

unsecured creditor, and leave as the result of the sale himself,
the actor who has brought on the possibility of foreclosure,
stripped of all rights in and to the mortgaged property. Was
he a real creditor, and did that real creditor make a generous
donation of this large claim? Were arrangements made with
him and the stockholders to protect both, and by virtue of
such arrangements was this foreclosure hastened to its close?
Questions like these which lie on the surface of these proceedings cannot be put one side on the suggestion that they present only matter of suspicion.
It is no answer to these objections to say that a bondholder
may foreclose in his own separate interest, and, after acquiring title to the mortgaged property, may give what interest
he pleases to any one, whether stockholder or not, and so
these several mortgagees foreclosing their mortgages, if proceiding in their own interest, if acquiring title for themselves
alone, may donate what interest in the property acquired by
foreclosure they desire. But human nature is something whose
action can never be ignored in the courts, and parties who
have acquired full and absolute title to property are not as
a rule donating any interest therein to strangers. It is one
thing for a bondholder who has acquired absolute title by
foreclosure to mortgaged property to thereafter give of his
interest to others, and an entirely different thing whether
such bondholder, to destroy the interest of all unsecured
creditors, to secure a waiver of all objections on the part of
the stockholder and consummate speedily the foreclosure, may
proffer to him an interest in the property after the foreclosure. The former may be beyond the power of the courts
to inquire into or condemn. The latter is something which
on the face of it deserves the condemnation of every court,
and should never be aided by any decree or order thereof.
It involves an offer, a temptation, to the mortgagor, the purchase price thereof to be paid, not by the mortgagee, but in
fact by the unsecured creditor.
We may observe that a court, assuming in foreclosure proceedings the charge of railroad property by a receiver, can
never rightfully become the mere silent registrar of the agree.

LOUISVILLE TRUST CO. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R'Y.

689-

Opinion of the Court.

ments of mortgagee and mortgagor. It cannot say that a
foreclosure is a purely technical matter between the mortgagee and mortgagor, and so enter any order or decree to
which the two parties assent without further inquiry. No
such receivership can be initiated and carried on unless absolutely subject to the independent judgment of the court appointing the receiver; and that court in the administration
of such receivership is not limited simply to inquiry as to the
rights of mortgagee and mortgagor, bondholder and stockholder, but considering the public interests in the property,
the peculiar circumstances which attend large railroad mortgages, must see to it that all equitable rights in or connected
with the property are secured.
While not intending any displacement of the ordinary rules
or rights of mortgagor and mortgagee in a foreclosure, we
believe that under the circumstances as presented by this
record there was error; that the charge alleged positively,
and supported by many circumstances, of collusion between
the bondholder and the stockholder, to prevent any beneficial
result inuring by virtue of the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in reference to the guarantee
obligations of the New. Albany Company, was one compelling
investigation, and the order will, therefore, be that the decrees of the Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court of Appeals be reversed and the case be remanded to the Circuit
Court, with instructions to set aside the confirmation of sale;
to inquire whether it is true as alleged that the forecl6sure
proceedings were made in pursuance of an agreement betweeii
the bondholder and stockholder to preserve the rights of both
and destroy the interests of unsecured creditors; and that if
it shall appear that such was the agreement between these
parties, to refuse to permit the confirmation of sale until the
interests of unsecured creditors have been preserved, and to.
take such other and further proceedings as shall be in conformity to law.
.Decree aceordingb4.
Mm.

JusrTic

PE K Ax dissented.

VOL. CLXMV-4

