OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for the Motion.

COLUMBUS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. CRANE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 462.

Submitted April 17, 1899. -Decided

May 22, 1699.

The judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, does not contemplate several separate appeals or writs of error, on the merits, in the
same case and at the same time to two appellate courts, and .therefore
the writ in this case in this court, which was taken while the case was
pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals, is dismissed. '

IN May; 1891, the Columbus Construction Company, a
corporation of the State of New Jersey, brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois an action at law against the Crane Company,
a corporation of the State of Illinois. The case was put at
issue, and the trial resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor
of the plaintiff in the sum of $48,000. This judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon a writ of error
sued out by the defendant. 46 U. S. App. 52. Thereafter
the case was again tried and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the defendant, upon a plea of set-off, in the
sum of $98,085.94, as of the date of March 2, 1898.
On the 25th day of August, 1898, a writ of error to reverse
this judgment was sued out by the plaintiff from the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit, where the case is
now pending.
On the 27th day of September, 1898, the plaintiff also sued
out a writ of error from this court. On April 17, 1899, the
defendant in error filed a motion to dismiss this writ of error;
and on the same day the plaintiff in error filed a petition for
a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Seventh Circuit.
XAr. Charles S. Bolt, Xi'. 1?U88ell 2. Wing and .Mr. Thomas
L. Cladbourne,Jr., for the motion.

COLUMBUS CONSTRUCTION CO. v. CRANE CO.

601

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. J. R. Cu8tr and XM. S. . G-regory opposing.
MR. JUSTICE SHmAs, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This record discloses that there are pending two writs of
error to the judgment of the Circuit Court - one in the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals. for the Seventh
Circuit, sued out on the 25th day of August, 1898, and one
in this court, sued out on the 27th day of September of the
same year. It also appears that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is not in question, but the contention is that that court
erred in the exercise of its jurisdiction.
We are of the opinion that the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, under which-these writs of error were sued out,
does not contemplate several separate appeals or writs of
error, on the merits, in the same case and at the same time
to two appellate courts, and that, therefore, the writ in this
court, which was taken while the case was pending in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, ought to be dismissed.
Such a question was considered by this court in .cLisA v.
_?o, 141 U. S. 661, 667.
That was a case of a writ of error from this court to the
United States court for the Indian Territory, where a suit
was pending and undecided, and the object of ,the writ was
to get the opinion of this court on the question whether the
lower court had jurisdiction of the suit. This court held that
it was not competent for a party denying the jurisdiction of
the trial court to bring that question here on a writ of error
sued out before final judgment, and the writ was accordingly
dismissed.
In the opinion, read by Mr. Justice Lamar, it was said:
"It is further argued, in support of the contention of the
plaintiff in error, that if it should be held that a writ of error
would not lie upon a question of jurisdiction until after final
judgment, such ruling would lead to confusion and absurd
consequences; that the question of jurisdiction would be certified to this court, while the case on its merits would be cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tified to the Circuit Court of Appeals; that the case. would
be before two separate appellate courts at one and the same
time; and that the Supreme Court might dismiss the suit
upon, the question of jurisdiction while the Circuit Court of
Appeals might properly affirm the judgment of the lower
court upon the merits. The fallacy which underlies this
argument is the assumption that the act of 1891 contemplates
several separate appeals in the same case, and at the same
time to two appellate courts. No such provision can be found
in the act, either in express terms or by implication. The
true purpose of the act, as gathered from its context, is that
the writ of error, or the appeal, may be taken only after final
judgment, except in the cases specified in section I of the act.
When that judgment is rendered, the party against whom it
is rendered must elect whether he will take his writ of error
or appeal to the Supreme Court upon the question of jurisdiction alone, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the whole
case; if the latter, then the Circuit Court of Appeals may,
if it deem proper, certify the question of jurisdiction to this
court."
We think the main purpose of the act of 1891, which was
to relieve this court of an enormous overburden of cases by
creating a new and distinct court of appeals, would be defeated, if a party, after resorting to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and while his case was there pending, could be permitted, of his own motion, and without procuring a writ of
certiorari, to bring the cause into this court.
Moreover, it is evident that such a movement is premature,
for the controversy may be decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in favor of the plaintiff in error, and thus his resort
to this court be shown to have been unnecessary.
Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v. Central Tr7ansportationrCo., 171
IT. S. 138, is referred to as a case in which there was pending
at the same time an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court
to the Circuit Court of Appeals and to this court. An obvious
distinction between that case and this is that there the appeal
was first taken to this court. Accordingly the Circuit Court
of Appeals declined either to decide the case on its merits or

