OCTOBER -TERMI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF LOUISVILLE v.
STONTE, Auditor.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNFITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No.404. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

The assertion in this case of an irrevocable contract with the State touching the taxation of the plaintiff, arising from the Hewitt Act, is disposed
of by the opinion of this court in Cifzens' Savings Bank of Owensboro
v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636.
The taxes which it was sought to enjoin in this suit were imposed upon
the franchises and property of the bank, and not upon the shares of
stock in the names of the shareholders, and were therefore illegal because in violation of the act of Congress.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of

the court.
Mr.Henry I. Stone for Louisville.
Ml. Alexander Pope Humphrey, Mr. Frank Chinn, -Mr.
James P. Helm and Mr.John W. ]odman for the banks.
MRt. JusTiE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, a banking corporation organized under the
National Banking act, and whose charter was renewed on
August 6, 1894, for a period of twenty years, filed its bill to
enjoin the assessment of certain taxes for the years 1895, 1896
and 1897. The grounds of relief set out in the original and
amended bills were substantially as follows: First. That the
corporation had accepted the terms of an act of the general
assembly of the State of Kentucky, denominated as the Hewitt
Act, from which it resulted that there was an irrevocable contract protecting the bank from all municipal taxation and
from all state taxation except such as was imposed by the
Hewitt Act. The provisions of the Hewitt Act thus relied on
were fully stated in Citizens Savings Bank of Owensloro v.

NATIONAL BANK OF LOUISVILLE v. STONE, Auditor. 433
Opinion of the Court.

Owen8boro, 173 U. S. 636. -Moreover, it was alleged that on
the 18th day of June, 1894, the city of Louisville, having
theretofore attempted to collect from the bank certain license
taxes, contrary to the terms and conditions of the contract
created by the Hewitt Act, the bank commenced suit to prohibit the collection of said taxes, and that these proceedings
culminated in a decree of the Court of Appeals of the State of
Kentucky prohibiting the collection of the taxes in question,
on the ground that the bank had an irrevocable contract, arising from the Hewitt Act, which could not be impaired. The
bill specifically alleged that the decree thus rendered by the
Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky constituted
the thing adjudged, and, by the presumption arising therefrom, established beyond power of contradiction the existence
of the irrevocable contract right. In addition, the bill alleged
that the taxes in question were illegal, because they were imposed on the franchise and property of the bank in violation
of the act of Congress with reference to the taxation of
national banks by the respective States. Rev. Stat. ยง 5219.
The taxes were, moreover, averred to be in violation of the act
of Congress, because they were discriminatory, and, in addition, were illegal, because they were, in certain designated
respects, repugnant to the constitution and laws of the State
of Kentucky.
An opinion was filed by the court holding that as well in
this case as in another case considered at the same time relating to the taxes for the years 1893 and 1894, demurrers to the
bills should be overruled and motions for preliminary injunc
tions granted. 88 Fed. Rep. 990. .The record, however,
establishes that, subsequently, on the attention of the court
being directed to the fact that the term of the original charter
of complainant had expired in the interval between the levy of
taxes for the years 1894 and 1895, (the charter having been
renewed and extended on August 6, 1894,) the court entered a
decree in the case at bar sustaining demurrers to the original
and amended bills and dismissing the suit. From the decree
so made this appeal was taken.
The assertion' of an irrevocable contract arising from the
vOL. CLXXIV-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Hewitt Act is disposed of by the opinion in Citizens' Savings
Bank v. Owensboro. The contention that the presumption of
the thing adjudged takes this case out of the ruling in that case,
is without foundation, because the suit brought to prohibit the
collection of the taxes and in which the judgment relied on
was rendered related to taxes for years prior to the expiration
of the charter and before the same was renewed. Indeed, the
suit wherein the judgment relied upon as constituting r'es
judicata was rendered was commenced before the expiration
of the original charter. Manifestly, as decided by the court
below, a decree establishing the existence of an irrevocable
contract, exempting or limiting the bank from taxation for
one charter term, is not the thing adjudged as to whether the
bank was subject to taxation during a new period of existence
derived from a renewal of its original charter life, for, however
persuasive the reasons supporting the conclusion that the corporation could not be taxed during its original charter, it was
obviously impossible to have decided that the same rule applied to an extension, which only commenced after the initiation of the suit, wherein was rendered the decree relied on
as constituting res judicat. A-question cannot be held to
have been adjudged before an issue on the subject could possibly have arisen. For these self-evident reasons, in .New
Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, where a plea of res
judicataas to a contract right of exemption was maintained,
after the renewal of a charter, the court eliminated from
consideration all the judgments which had been rendered prior
to the period when the amended charter took effect.
These considerations would render it necessary to affirm the
judgment but for the fact that the taxes which it was sought
to enjoin were imposed upon the franchises and property of
the bank and not upon the shares of stock in the names of the
shareblders. it follows therefore that they were illegal, because in violation of the act of Congress. Owensboro INational
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664.
The decree below must therefore be reversed and the case be
'emanded for further proceedings in conformity to this
opainion, and it is so ordered.

