NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. HASSE.

9

Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

In the present case, the parties will not be compelled to
resort to some form of original proceeding to obtain relief
under the act of April 28, 1904, as, apart from the statute, the
decree must be reversed, and thereupon the record will be
open for such adjudication as the then situation may demand.
In No. 88, writ of error dismissed; in No. 102, decree reversed
and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN Was of opinion that the decree of the
state Supreme Court should be affirmed for the reasons
given,
and, therefore, dissented.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. HASSE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 118.

Submitted January 6, 1905.-Decided February 20, 190.

This case -is governed by the decision in Northern Pacific Railway Company
v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, and Northern Pacific Railway Company v.

Ely, ante, p. 1.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. W. Bunn and Mr. James B. Kerr for plaintiff in
error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the cour t.

This was an action of ejectment brought by the Norther.
Pacific Railwaf Company in the Superior Court of Kittjtw

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

197 U. S.

County, Washington, to recover possession of part of its right
of way, the land being partly within and partly without a
right of way of two hundred feet in width. Defendants asserted title by virtue of a homestead application, filed May 24,
1883, final proof July 12, 1888, and patent September 27, 1889;.
and adverse possession for the period named in the stattite of
limitations. Judgment was' entered in favor of the railway
company, and defendants carried the case by appeal to the
Supreme Court of Washington, which held the statute of
limitations applicable, reversed the judgment below and remanded the case with directions to dismiss the Aition. 28
Washington, 353.
The grant of right of way, unlike the land grant, was effective from the date of th act, and the fact that the railroad
was not built until after defendants' entry does not affect the
disposition of the case. Railroad Company v. Baldwin, 103
U. S. 426; Bybee v. Oregon & Californin Railroad Company,
139 U. S. 663, 679.
The judgment must be reversed'on the authority of Northern Pacific Railway Company v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, and
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this court in Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
Ely, ante, p. 1.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

