OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

Entertaining these views, we answer the first question in
the affirmative and the second in the negative.
did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

BISHOP r. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 92. Argued March 23, 1905.-Deoided April 3,1905.

An officer in the Navy failing to report at the time ordered, while his vessel
for drunken- was in Japanese waters, in 1865, was placed under arrest
ness and neglect of duty; later, on the same day he was, by order of the
rear admiral, restored to duty to await an opportunity to investigate
the case. Subsequently the rear admiral convened a court martial consisting of seven officers all of equal or superior rank to accused who was
served with charges and arrested, arraigned and tried, found guilty and
dismissed. Accused stated he had no objections to any of the court
and knew of no reason why it should not proceed with his trial. Subsequently in a suit for salary on ground of illegal dismissal he claimed
the first arrest was an expiation of the offense and a bar; that the court
was invalid and incompetent and the sentence invalid not having been
approved by the rear admiral or the President. Held, that:
,Par71205, Naval Regulations of 1865, prox iding that:'the arrest and discharge of a person in the Navy for an offense shall be a bar to further
martial proceedings against him for. that offense, does not apply to an
.arrest and temporary- confinement not in'tended as a punishment but
as a reasonable prechution for the mainteiance of good order and discipline aboard.
Under Article 38 of the law of April 23, 1800, 2 Stat. 50, and Par. 1202,
Naval Regulations of 1865, the provision as to service of charges upon the
accused at the time that he is put under arrest vefers not to the temporary arrest necessary for order and discipline at the time of the commission
of the offense but to the subsequent 'arrest for trial by court- martial.
It is a question for the officer convening the court to determine whether
more officers could be convened without injury to the service and his
action in this respect cannot be attacked collaterally, and if the accused
expresses sa tisfaction with the court martial as ponstituted, it is a clear
waiver of any objection to its personnel.

BISHOP v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

335

Argument for Appellant.

Under Articles 19 and 20 of the act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 605, the rear
admiral convening the court martial was not obliged to confirm the sentence of dismissal.
The approval by the President sufficiently appears where the record shows
that the sentence Iwas submitted to the President and his approval appears at the foot of a brief in the case and the Secretary of the Navy
writes to the accused that the President has approved the sentence.

THIS is a petition for pay as a Lieutenant Commander from
February 8, 1868, when defendant was dismissed from the
naval service pursuant to the sentence of a general courtmartial, until March 9, 1871, when he was reinstated by
special act of Congress. The Court of Claims made a finding
of facts, the material parts of which are incorporated in the
opinion, and dismissed the petition. 38 C. Cl. 473.
Mr. Irwin W. Schultz for appellant:
The alleged court-martial had no jurisdiction over appellant
as he had already been punished for the alleged offense by his
arrest and suspension from duty on May 31, 1867. Par. 1205,
Nay. Reg. 1865; and see also pars. 455, 1122, 1202, 1210, 1212;
Art. 38, laws regulating the Navy, act of 1800, 2 Stat. 50.
The judgment of a court-martial may be collaterally attacked. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet.. 270.
The court-martial was illegally constituted. Art. II, act
of 1862, 12 Stat. 603. As to convening courts-martial see
Mills v. Martin, 19 Johns. (N. Y.) 29; Runkle v. United States,
122 U. S.543; Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 115; Nav. Reg. 1900,
par. 1837. Statutory provisions as to constitution of the
court must be observed, otherwise it is fatal. Wells on Jurisdiction, 1880, §§ 1.5-17, 40-42, 47; Keyes v. United States,
109 U. S.136; Fry v. Warden, 100 N. Y. 26. It is doubtful
whether the accused could have waived an objection to the
jurisdiction of the court.. Brook v. Davis, 17 Pick. 148; S.C.,
22 Pick. 498.
The sentence is void because not affirmed by the rear
admiral and the President. Arts. 19, 20, act of 1862, 12 Stat.
600; par. 1239, Nav. Reg. 1865; Re Sands and Rinker,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

2 Am. St. Papers, War Affairs, 539; 2 Op. Atty. Gen. 19;
'1 Winthrop's Mil. Law, 639; 13 Op. Atty. Gen. 459; cases
cited supra.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt and Mr. Assistant
Attorney Felix Brannigan for the United States, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case depends upon the validity of the findings and
sentence of the court-martial, and is brought under an act of
Congress approved June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 1612, nearly thirty
years after petitioner was recommissioned as a Lieutenant
Commander, which enacted "that the claim of Joshua Bishop
for alleged items of pay, due and unpaid to him for services
be, and the same is
as a Lieutenant Commander.
Jurisdiction is hereby
of
Claims.
Court
the
to
hereby referred
and the statute of
cause,
said
conferred on said court to try
limitations shall not apply thereto, and to render final judgment therein, and subject to the right of appeal by either
party." Claimant insisted in the court below that this statute
was not a mere waiver of limitations, but a recognition that
claimant was a Lieutenant Commander during the time referred to in the act, but as this point is not made in the briefs
filed in this court, it may be considered as abandoned.
The action of the court-martial in dismissing the petitioner
from the service is attacked upon the following grounds:
1. That the court had no jurisdiction over him, because he
had already been punished for the off~nses charged against
him, viz., drunkenness and neglect of duty.
It appears from the findings that Bishop was a Lieutenant
Commander in the naval service, attached to the steamer
Wyoming, then lying in the harbor of Nagasaki, Japan; that
he was ordered Iby his commanding officer to have his ship
ready for sea by daylight on the morning of the thirty-first

BISHOP v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of May, 1867, but that he went ashore and did not return until
after daylight. On May 31 the following entries appear on
the log:
"From 4 to 8 A. M.
"Lieutenant Commander Joshua Bishop was suspended
from duty by order of Lt. Commander C. C. Carpenter.
"GEORGE B. GLIDDEN, Master."
"From 6 to 8 P. M.
"At 6.40 Lt. Comdr. Joshua Bishop was restored to duty
by order of Rear Admiral H. H. Bell.
"GEORGE

B. GLIDDEN, Master."

Upon being placed on trial before the court-martial Bishop
pleaded that he was placed under arrest for the offenses
specified (drunkenness and neglect of duty), but was ordered
released from arrest by Rear Admiral Bell; and in this connection refers the court to paragraph 1205, Navy Regulations
of 1865, then in force, as follows:
"An offense committed at any one time, for which a person in the Navy shall have been placed under arrest, suspension or confinement, and subsequently entirely discharged
therefrom by competent authority, or for which he shall have
been otherwise fully punished, is to be regarded as expiated, and no further martial proceedings against him for the
offense itself are ever afterwards to take place," etc.
Conceding that the petitioner was within the letter of the
regulations, inasmuch as he was suspended from duty in the
morning of May 31 and restored to duty on the evening of the
same day, we do not think the case is within its real meaning,
which looks to a punishment of the offense by such suispension. As it appears that Bishop was intoxicated during the
preceding day, and went ashore and failed to report at daylight on the next morning, it would naturally be inferred that
his suspension from duty was not intended as a punishment,
but as a reasonable precaution for the maintenance of good
order and discipline aboard.
VOL. cxcvii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

That this was the understanding of the Rear Admiral is
evidenced from the following letter restoring him to duty:
"U. S.
"NAGASAKI,

FLAGSHIP HARTFORD,

JAPAN,

May 31, 1867.

"Lieut. Comm'd'r C. C. CARPENTER,
"Comm'd'g U. S. S. Wyoming, Nagasaki.
"SIR: Your communication of this date, reporting Lieutenant Commander Bishop to me, is received.
"You will restore Lieutenant Commander Bishop to duty
to await an opportunity for time to investigate the case.
"I am, sir, very respectfully,
"H. H. BELL,
"Rear Admiral, Commanding U. S. Asiatic Squadron."
It is quite evident that the words "arrest, suspension or
confinement," in paragraph 1205, contemplate an action in
the nature of a punishment, upon the infliction of which the
offense is to be regarded as expiated; but as the order restoring Bishop to duty was on its face merely to give "time to
investigate the case," we do not think the order of suspension
could have been intendbd as a punishment in itself, or as an
expiation of the previous offense, nor did the order of Admiral Bell "entirely discharge" the accused within the meaning of § 1205 of the Navy Regulations.
2. No further proceedings appear to have been taken until
June 21, 1867, when charges and specifications were preferred
by Rear Admiral Bell, and on September 5, 1867, the following entry appears upon the log:
"From 4 to 8 A. M.
"Lt. Comdr. Joshua Bishop placed under arrest to await
trial by court-martial, and served with copy of charges, by order
of Rear Admiral H. H. Bell, comdg. U. S. Asiatic squadron.
"E. F. CRAWFORD, Mate."
The petitioner cites in this connection Article 38 of the laws
regulating the Navy, approved April 23, 1800, 2 Stat. 45,
50, 51, providing that "all charges, on which an application

BISHOP v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for a general court-martial is founded, shall be exhibited in
writing to the proper officer, and the person demanding the
court shall take care that the person accused be furnished
with a true copy of the charges, with the specifications, at the
time he is put under arrest," and insists in this connection that
he should have been served with a copy of the charges and
specifications on May 31, 1867, when he was suspended. The
objection is unfounded.
As already indicated, the first arrest was a temporary precaution for the preservation of good order and for further
-investigation. There was no opportunity for the preparation
of charges and specifications, and evidently this was not the
arrest contemplated by the above act.
It is true that paragraph 1202 of the Naval Regulations of
1865 provides that offenders shall be brought to trial within
thirty days after notice to the proper authority, empowered to
convene such court, or shall be released from arrest and returned to duty, and so remain until a court-martial can be
convened to try him, "when he shall be again arrested on the
day before the court is convened, so as to undergo his trial
before it." As petitioner had been "released from arrest and
returned to duty" on May 31, and so remained until September 5, when he was "again arrested" on the day before the
court-martial was ordered to convene; and as he was servedwith a copy of the charges and specifications on the day he
was arrested, we see nothing in these proceedings of which he
is entitled tO complain. The point is completely covered by
Johnson v. Sayre, 158 U. S. 109, 117.
3. Petitioner's contention that the court-martial was illegally
constituted rests upon article 11 of the act of July 17, 1862
(12 Stat. 600, 603), providing that "no general court-martial
shall consist of more than thirteen nor less than five cormmissioned officers as members; and as many officers shall be
3ummoned on every such court as can be convened without
njury to the service, so as not to exceed thirteen; and the
senior officer shall always preside, the others taking place

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

according to their rank; and in no case, where it can be avoided
without injury to the service shall more than one-half the
members, exclusive of the president, be junior to the officer
to be tried."
The argument is that as the court-martial consisted of only
seven officers it had not power or authority to try and sentence
petitioner without showing affirmatively that no more could
be convened without injury to the service. As the courtmartial consisted of more than five commissioned officers,
viz., seven, all of whom were of equal or superior rank to the
petitioner, it was a question for the officer convening the court
to determine whether more could be convened without injury
to the service, and we do not think his action or non-action
in this particular can be collaterally attacked. The regulations have been recently amended in that particular. As the
accused when arraigned said he had no objection to any
member of the court, and knew of no reason why the court
should not proceed with his tfial, it is manifestly too late to
raise the objection, in view of our decision in Mullan v. United
States, 140 U. S. 240, in which we held that when the conmander-in-chief of a squadron not in the waters of the United
States, convenes a court-martial, more than one-half of whose
members are juniors in rank to the accused, the courts of the
United States will assume, when his action is attacked collaterally, that he properly exercised his discretion, and the
trial of the accused by such a court could not be avoided,
without inconvenience to the service. The rank and number
of the members of a court-martial must necessarily be, and is,
left somewhat to the discretion of the officer convening the
court. There is nothing in this case to indicate an abuse of
discretion, or that a larger number of officers might have been
convened without injury to the service, although if the accused had taken prompt advantage of the defect it might have
been necessary to show that a larger number could not have
been obtained. His expressed satisfaction with the court as
constituted was a clear waiver of any objection to its personnel.

BISHOP v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

4. The objection unau une court-martiai proceedings are void
because its sentence was not approved or confirmed by Rear
Admiral- Bell, who convened the court, is answered by articles 19 and 20 of the act of July 17, 1862, for the better government of the Navy. 12 Stat. 605. The first of these articles
provides that "all sentence-s of courts-martial which shall
extend to the loss of life shall require the concurrence of twothirds of the members presefnt,' as well as confirmation by the
President. "All other sentences may be determined by a
majority of votes, and carried into execution, on confirmation
of the commander of the fleet, or officer ordering the court,
except such as go to the dismission of a commissioned or
warrant officer, which are first to be approved by the President of the United States." As the sentence in this case
extended to a dismissal from the service, no confirmation was
necessary by Admiral Bell, whose duty was discharged by
forwarding the papers to the President.
Petitioner relies upon article 20 of the same act, vwhich declares that "Every officer who is by this act authorized to
convene courts-martial shall have power on revisal of its
proceedings to remit or mitigate, but not to commute the
sentence of any such court, which by this act he is authorized
to approve and confirm." Obviously, this article extends
only to such sentences as the convening officer is authorized
to approve and confirm, and has no application where th%
punishment of dismissal is imposed.
5. The last point made is that the court-martial proceedings
are void because the sentence was never confirmed by the
President of the United States. The record shows that the
proceedings of the court-martial were forwarded and submitted
to the Secretary of the Navy for the action of the President,
under article 19, above quoted; that the papers were submitted to some officer connected with the Navy Department,
who made a statement, termed a "brief," of the findings of
the court, and added the following: "The evidence in the case
is positive and clear, and the findings of the court sustained

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

thereby. Lieut. Comdr. Bishop produces no witnesses in his'
behalf, and the statement made by him to the court is lame
throughout. There is no recommendation by the court for
clemency."
December 3, 1867, the Secretary of the Navy certified that
the case was submitted to the President for his action in accordance with article 19 of the above act, to which are added
the words: "Approved: Andrew Johnson."
On February 8, 1868, the Secretary of the Navy addressed
to the petitioner a letter notifying him of the sentence of courtmartial, and added as follows: "The sentence of the court in
your case having been approved by the President, you are hereby
dismissed from the Navy service," etc. It is difficult to see
how the personal approval of the President could appear more
clearly than in this case. In United States v. Fletcher, 148
U. S. 84, there appeared only the certificate of the Secretary
of War that the proceedings of the court-martial were forwarded to the Secretary of War for the action of the President,
and that "the proceedings, findings and sentence are approved;" but it was held that the order was valid, though it
did not appear that the President personally examined the
proceedings and approved the execution of the sentence.
Criticism was made in that opinion of Runkle v. United States,
122 U. S. 543, upon the ground that the circumstances of that
case were so exceptional as to render it an unsafe precedent
in any other. It was held in that case that there was no
sufficient evidence that the action of the court-martial was
approved, and it followed that the officer was never legally
dismissed from the service. No such criticism-can be made
here, as it not only appears from the letter of February 8
that the sentence of the court had been approved by the
President, but his approval distinctly appears at the foot of
the brief.
We find nothing in this case of which the petitioner has any
just reason to complain. The proceedings of the court-martial
were conducted with a substantial, if not .aliteral, conformity

McMILLEN v. FERRUM MINING COMPANY.
197 U. S.

343

Statement of the Case.

to the law, and we must presume, at least, that there was
sufficient evidence to support the sentence. While drunkenness is not ordinarily considered as criminal, the intoxication
of a naval officer while on duty is a gross breach of discipline,
and liable to be attended by very serious consequences. Congress evidently acted with forbearance and generosity in reinstating petitioner in the service after a lapse of three years,
and thereby condoned the offense. But it has never directly
or indirectly intimated that petitioner was entitled to pay
during the suspension.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

McMILLEN v. FERRUM MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO- THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 185. Argued March 15, 16, 1905.-Decided April 3, 1906.

Where the Federal question is not raised until the petition for rehearing
to the highest court of the State, it is too late to give this court jurisdiction under Rev. Stat. § 709, to review a writ of error unless the court
grants the rehearing and then proceeds to pass upon the question.
Where in all the state courts the question was treated as one of local law,
the fact that the suit was brought under Rev. Stat. § 2326, to try adverse
rights to a mining claim, does not necessarily involve a Federal question
so as to authorize a writ of error from this court.

By this writ of error it is sought to review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of Colorado, affirming a judgment of the
District Court of Lake County in favor of the Ferrum Mining
Company in a proceeding brought by the plaintiffs in error
under Rev. Stat. sec. 2326 to determine the right of possession
to certain mining grounds, plaintiffs claiming title as owners
of the Eulalia lode mining claim and the defendant claiming
title to the same ground as the Golden Rod lode mining claim.

