OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

261, 275. What the necessity is for such tax, and.upon what
occupations it shall be imposed, as well as the amount of the
imposition, are exclusively within the control of the state
legislature. So long as there is no discrimination against
citizens of other States, the amount and necessity of the tax
are not open to criticism here.
3. The argument that the tax impairs the obligation of a
contract between the petitioner and Nelson Morris & Company
is hardly worthy of serious consideration. The power of taxation overrides any agreement of an employ6 to serve for a
specific sum. His contract remains entirely undisturbed.
There was no stipulation for an employment for a definite
peFi6d; and if there were, it is inconceivable that the State
should lose this right of taxation by the fact that the party
taxed had entered into an engagement with his employer for
a definite period. The tax is an incident to the business, and
probably might under the terms of their contract be charged
up against the employer as one of the necessary expenses of
carrying it on.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT (COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 44. Argued November 7,1904.-Decided February 27, 1905.

Section 5219, Rev. Stat., authorizes the taxation by the States of shares
of stock of national bahks but exacts that the tax when levied shall

be at no greater rate than that imposed on other moneyed capital; no
conflict necessarily arises" between the Federal statute and a state law
solely because the latter provides one method for taxation of state banks
and another method for national banks if there is no actual discrimination against the shares of the national banks resulting from the difference
in method. If, however, irrespective of the face of the law, the system
created by the state law in its practical execution produces an actual

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

71

Argument for Appellant.

and material discrimination against national banks it does conflict with
§ 5219, Rev. Stat., and is void.
Where the record contains an express admission that a specified instance
of taxation showing an undervaluation of the property of a corporation
is illustrative of the method by which all other similar institutions are
assessed under a statute requiring full valuation, this court cimnot disregard the admission and consider that such undervaluation is an isolated
instance and that all the property of other similar institutions is assessed
at full value in accordance with the provisioqs of the statute.
As it appears from the agreed statement of facts in this case that under
the laws of California, as construed by the highest court of that State,
'all the elements of value which are embraced in the assessment of shares
of stock in national banks are not included in assessing the value of
property of state banks and other moneyed corporations, there is a discrimination against the shares of national banks and the state law taxing
such shares as so construed violates, and is void under, § 5219, Rev.
Stat.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. S. Wood, with whom Mr. E. S. Pillsbury and Mr.
Alfred Sutro were on the brief, for appellant.
As to constitutional scope of taxation, see McCulloch v.
Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 429;, § 3, Art. I; §-1, Art. XIII, Const.
of California. Property exempt under the. laws of the United
States is exempt under the state laws; the exemption is obligatory. Pollock. v. Farmers' L. & T. Co, 157. U. S. 429.
National banks are not subject to state taxation. The franchise to be a national bank is not subject to state taxation.
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 671; National Bank v. Louisville, 174 U. S. 438.
The shares may be taxed but only under the provisions
of Rev. Stat. § 5219. This is the measure of the power of
the State to tax national banks. First National Bank v. San
Francisco, 129 California, 97.
The authority thus given is to tax, not the banks, but the
shareholders; and the authority to tax shareholders is upon
the express limitations thus declared by Congress.
Whenever, therefore, state legislation assumes to tax shareholders of national banks at a greater rate than other moneyed

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

197 U. S.

capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State, such
legislation is unconstitutional and void. People v. Weaver,
100 U. S. 539; Pelton v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 146;.Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322; McHenry v. Downer, 116
California, 25; Miller v. Heilbron, 58 California, 133.
As to California legislation authorizing taxation of shares
in national bank, see McHenry v. Downer, 116 California, 25;
Stat. March 14, 1899, p. 96; and also see exemptions under
§ 3608, Political Code.
The constitutionality of this statute as to the exemption
of shares in.state corporations was affirmed in Burke v. Badlam, 57 California, 594; San Francisco v. Mackay, 10 Sawyer,
302; County Commissioners v. Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank,
48 Maryland, 117; Germania Trust Co. v. San Francisco, 128
California, 594, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State, construing its constitution and statutes, are binding upon the Federal courts. This creates a discrimination
against shares of national banks.
Under §3609 shares in national banks are valued and
assessed as other property for taxation. Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 311; Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S. 324.
The rule of valuation applicable to the property of the stockholder in a state corporation, or in a state bank, is not the
equivalent of the rule made applicable to stockholders in
national banking associations. Miller v. Heilbron, 58 California, 133; McHenry v. Downer, 116 California, 20, and the
amendment of 1899 does not cure it. Par. 6, §3629, Pol.
Code, has not been amended as to exemptions to which banks
and stockholders are entitled and which are not available
under this statute; see Dutton v. Bank, 53 Kansas, 440, 463;
First Nat. Bank v. Ayres, 160 U. S. 660; Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440; Palmer v. McMahon, 133
U. S. 660; Bank of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black, 620, 628;
Bradley v. People, 4 Wall. 458; Hills v Exchange Bank, 105
U. S. 327; Whitbeck v. Mercantile Bank, 127 U. S. 199; McMahon v. Palmer, 102 N. Y. 176; S. C., 12 Daly, 364; Na-

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

73

Argument for Appellee.

tional Bank v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205. In matters of taxation the statute must be adhered to. Merced County v. Helm,
102 California, 159, 165.
As to Bank of California v. State, 142 California, 276, this
court may accept the refusal but is not bound by the reasoning, and see Hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 530, 599; Cohens
v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 399. As to methods of valuing franchises of state corporations, see Water Works v. Schottler, 62
California, 69, 117; San Jos6 Gas Co. v. January,57 California,
614; San Francisco v. Anderson, 103 California, 70; Germania
Trust Co. v. San Francisco, 128 California, 595; People v.
National Bank, 123 California, 53, 60; San Francisco v. Fry,
63 California, 470.

Mr. William I. Brobeck, with whom Mr. Percy V. Long
was on the brief, for appellee:
The act of March 14, 1899, is constitutional and is not violative of § 5219, Rev. Stat., as to extent of power-of taxation.
See State Tax on Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 334; Kirtland
v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 1491; Mackay v. San Francisco, 113
California, 392. An assessment will not be declared void for
inequality of Valuation unless a preconcerted plan of Oliscrimination is disclosed. Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S. 550;
Supervisors v. Stanley, i05 U. S. 305; Bank v. Kimball, 103
U. S. 732; Bank v. Perea, 147 U. S. 67.
As to construction of "other moneyed capital" see National Bank v. Mayor, 100 Fed. Rep. 29; Mercantile Bank v.
New York, 121 U. S. 154; Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105
U. S. 322; National Bank v. Chehalis, 166 U. S. 440. The
bank in this case has had the benefit of all possible deductions. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Bradley v. People, 4 Wall. 459; People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244.
There is no discrimination against national banks on the
face of the statute. Davenport Bank v. Davenport, 123 U. S.
$3. As to what deductions should be allowed to holders of
bank stock and how values should be estimated see cases cited

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

197 U. S.

by appellant and Bressler v. Wayne, 32 Nebraska, 834; Chapman v. Bank, 56 Ohio St. 310.
The general rulee is that a share of stock is a right to a proportionate part in the dividends and profits of the corporation
and to a share of its net assets upon dissolution. Plumpton
v.. Bigelow, 93 N. Y. 599; Field v. Pierce, 102 Massachusetts,
261; Jones v. Davis, 35 Ohio St. 477; Tax Collector v. Insurance Co., 42 La. Ann. 1172; Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S.
687; People v. Batk, 123 California, 60.
No solvent credits escape assessment under the constitution
and laws of California. Section 1, Art. XIII, of constitution;
§§ 3607, 3617, Pol. Code; People v. Hibernia Bank, 51 California, 247.
The exemption of shares of state banks does not discriminate
against national banks. Cases cited by appellant, and see
Stanford v. San Francisco, 131 California, 34; Ottawa Glass
Co. v. McCalet, 81 Illinois, 556; Nevada National Bank v.
Dodge, 119 Fed. Rep. 57. The courts of California have construed the statute as taxing shares of stock only once and
while there are two lines of decisions the only decisions involved in this case are those of the California courts whose
construction of the statute of the State will be followed by
this court. The California decisions are supported by Rice
V. National Bank, 23 Minnesota, 280; Commissioner's v. Nationtal Bdnk, 48 Maryland, 117; Lackawanna v. National Bank,
94 Pa. St. 221; Rosenberg v. Texas; 67 Texas, 578; Gordon v.
Mayor &c., 5 Till. 231; Blythe v. Brannin, 3 Zabr. 484; Johnson v. Commonwealth, 7 Dana, 342; Tax Cases, 12 G. & Johns.
.17; Smith v. Burley, 9 N. H. 423; Williams v. Weaver, 75
N' Y. -31; New .Haven v. Bank, 31 Connecticut, 106.
It is evident both, by the statutes and decisions of this
State, that the system of taxation on its face works no discimination against.the national bank shareholders, and that
it was the thought and intent of the Jlegislature that the taxation of the property and the taxation -f the shares was one
and the same.

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

75

Opinion of the Court.

The purpose of this method of taxation was to avoid what
the Supreme Court of the State had declared to be double
taxation Nevada National Bank v. Dodge, 119 Fed. Rep.
57; Hepburn v. School Directors, 23 Wall. 480.
Where a statute is fairly susceptible of two constructions
-one leading inevitably to mischief or absurdity, and the
other consistent with justice, sound sense and wise policythe former should be rejected and the latter adopted. In re
Mitchell, 120 California, 384, 386; Jacobs v. Supervisors, 100
California, 127; Sedgwick on Stat. and Const. Law, 312.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant bank sued to restrain the enforcement of
state, county, and city taxes, levied for the year 1900, upon
shares of stock of the bank. Adequate averments were made
to show equitable jurisdiction. Cummings v. National Bank,
101 U. S., 153, 157; Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319;
Lander v. Mercantile Bank, 186 U. S. 458. The taxes were
alleged to be in conflict with the law of the United States.
Rev. Stat. § 5219.
The case was submitted upon the pleadings and an agreed
statement of facts. A decree of dismissal was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That
court deemed that the cause was controlled by the reasoning
of an opinion delivered in deciding a previous case, Nevada
National Bank v. Dodge, 'Assessor, the opinion in which case
is reported in 119 Fed. Rep. 57.
Before considering the contentions relied on we quote the
text of the constitution of California directly relating to the
subject in hand, and briefly advert to the legislation of that
State which preceded the act under which the assailed tax
was levied.
Section 1 of Article XIII of the constitution of California
provides:
"All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of
the United States, shall be taxed in proportion to its value,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

to be ascertained as provided by law. The word 'property,'
as used in this article and section, is hereby declared to include moneys, credits, bonds, stocks, dues, franchises and all
other matters and things, real, personal and mixed, capable
of private ownership. The legislature may provide, except
in the case of credits secured by mortgage or trust deed, for a
reduction from credits of debts due to bona fide residents of
this State."
Carrying out the command to provide for the ascertainment of the value of property to be taxed, it was enacted,
Political Code, § 3627, that all taxable property shall be
assessed "at its full cash value," and, Political Code, § 3617,
that "the terms 'value' and 'full cash value' mean the amount
at which the property would be taken in payment of a just
debt due from a solvent debtor."
Prior to 1881 shares of stock of all corporations were taxed,
and section 3640 of the Political Code commanded that the
market value of the stock of a corporation should be taken as
the value of the shares for assessment. Where the shares of
stock .wero taxed no tax was levied upon the corporate property. This was because the Supreme Court of California had
decided that to tax both the stock and the corporate property
would be double taxation. Burke v. Badlam, 57 California,
594.

In the year 1881 the general system of taxing shares of stock
was abandoned, and a rule was put in force taxing the corporate property. Section 3608 of the Political Code, which embodied this change, was as follows:
".Shares of stock in corporations possess no intrinsic value
over and above the actual value of the property of the corpo.ration which they stand for and represent; and the assesscorporate
ment and taxation of such shares, and also. of the
property, would be double taxation. Therefore, all property
belonging to corporations shall be assessed and taxed, but
no assessment shall be made of shares of stock; nor shall any
holder thereof be taxed therefor."

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

The act of 1899, under which the tax in this case was levied,

amended the section just quoted, by providing that all property belonging to corporations shall be assessed and taxed
"save and except the property of national banking
associations, not assessable by Federal statute;" and by adding to
the provision commanding that no assessment shall be made
of shares of stock in any corporation the following words:
"Save and except in national banking associations, whose
property, other than real estate, is exempt from assessment
by Federal statute." To carry out the change made by the
provision just referred to, two sections were added to the
Political Code, viz., 3609 and 3610. Section 3608, as amended
by the act of 1899, and the two new sections resulting from
that act, are in the margin.'
' SEC. 3608. Shares of stock in corporations possess no intrinsic value over
and above the actual value of the property of the corporation which they

stand for and represent; and the assessment and taxation of such shares,
and also all the corporate property, would be double taxation. Therefore,
all property belonging to corporations, save and except the property of
national banking associations, not assessable by Federal statute, shall be
assessed and taxed. But no assessment shall be made of shares of stock
in any corporation, save and except in national banking associations, whose
property, other than real estate, is exempt from assessment by Federal
statute.
SEC. 3609. The stockholders in every national banking association
doing
business in this State, and having its principal place of business located in
this State, shall be assessed and taxed on the value of their shares of stock
therein; and said shares shall be valued and assessed as is other property
for taxation, and shall be included in the valuation of the personal property
of such stockholders in the assessment of the taxes at the place, city, town,
and county where such national banking association is located, and not
elsewhere, whether the said stockholders reside in said place, city, town,

or county, or not; but in the assessment of such shares each stockholder shall
be allowed .all the deductions permitted by law to the holders of moneyed
capital in the form of solvent credits, in the same manner as such deductions are allowed by the provision of paragraph six of section thirty-six
hundred and twenty-nine of the Political Code of the State of California.
In making such assessment to each stockholder there shall be deducted from
the value of his shares of stock such sum as is in the same proportion to such
value as the total value of its real estate and property exempt by law from
taxation bears to the whole value of all the shares of capital stock in said

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the*Court.

197 U. S.

The first contention is that the law of 1899 is on its face
in conflict with section 5219 of the Revised Statutes, because
it taxes shares of stock in national banks and does not tax
such shares in state banks and other state moneyed corporations. As it is patent that the state banks and corporations are taxed on their property, the proposition reduces
itself to this: That the States may not pursue the method
permitted, by the act of Congress of taxing shares of stock in
national banks unless the same method is employed as to the
stock of state banks and other state moneyed corporations.
In' Davenport Bank v. Davenport, 123 U. S. 83, it was decided that the provision of section 5219 of the Revised Statutes, authorizing the taxation of shares of stock in national
banks, but exacting that the tax when levied should be at no
greater rate than that imposed on other moneyed capital, did
not require the States, in taxing their own corporations, "to
conform to the system of taxing the national banks upon the
shares of their stock in the hands of their owners."
True it is in the Davenport case it was also decided that the
prohibition in the act of Congress of a higher rate of taxation
of shares of stock in national banks than on other moneybd
capital operated to avoid any method of assessment or taxanational bank. And nothing herein shall be construed to exempt the real
estate of such national bank from taxation. And the assessment and taxation of such shares of stock in said national banking associations shall not
be at a greater rate than is made or assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of this State.
SEc. 3610. The assessor charged by law with the assessment of said shares
shall, within ten days after he has made such assessment, give written notice
to each national banking association of such assessment of the shares of its
respective shareholders; and no personal or other notice to such shareholder
of such assessment shall be necessary for the purpose of this act. And in
stock is unsecured by real estate owned by the
case the tax on anyi*#ch
holder of such stock, th~nth' bank in which said.stock is held shall become
liable therefor; and the assessor shall collect the same from said bank, which
may then charge the amount of th tax so collected to the-account of the
stockholder owning such stock, and shall have a lien, prior to all other liens,
on his said stock, and the dividends and earnings thereof; for the reimbursement to it of such taxes so paid.

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

79

Opinion of the Court.

tion, the usual or probable effect of which would be to discriminate in favor of state banks and against national banks.
True also is it that in the same case it was held that, even
where no such discrimination seemingly arose on the face of
the statute, nevertheless, if from the record it appeared that
the system created by the State in its practical execution
produced an actual and material discrimination against national banks, it would be the duty of the court to hold the
state statute to be in conflict with the act of Congress, and
therefore void.
As, then, no conflict necessarily arises between the act of
Congress and the state law, solely because the latter' provides
one method for taxation of state banks and other moneyed
corporations and another method for national banks, it follows
that the contention that the state law for that reason is repugnant to the act of Congress is without merit. And this
brings us to consider the contention of the appellant, which
we think was' embraced in the pleadings, which was expressly
covered by the stipulated facts, the overruling of which was
assigned as error in the Circuit Court of Appeals and inthis
court, and was elaborately discussed by both parties in the
argument at bar, viz., that irrespective of the face of the
state law, that law is void because of. a discrimination against
national banks, within the principles settled in the Davenport
case.
To determine this latter contention requires an analysis of
the two systems which the law of California enforces, in order
that the two may be accurately compared.
Under the law the shares of national banks must be valued
at their "full cash value," which the statute defines to mean
the amount at which they "would be taken for a just debt due
from a solvent debtor." These words are but synonymous
with the requirement that in assessing shares of stock their
market value must be the criterion. This is the case, for,
eliminating exceptional and extraordinary conditions, giving
an abnormal value for the moment to stock, it is apparent that

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

the general market value of stock is its true cash and selling
value. That such is the meaning of the words in the legislation of California is indisputable, in view of the provision of
section 3640 of the Political Code, which made market value
the rule for assessing shares of stock during the period when
the taxation of shares of stock generally prevailed, and that
such requirement was mandatory was in effect held by the
Supreme Court of California. Miller v. Heilbron, 58 California, 133, 138.
What, then, was embraced in the assessment of the shares
of stock at their full cash or selling or market value? It embraced not only the book value of all the assets of the corporation, but the good will, the dividend-earning power, the
ability with which the corporate affairs were managed, the
confidence reposed in the capacity and permanency of tenure
of the officers, and all those other indirect and intangible
increments of value which enter into the estimate of the worth
of stock and help to fix the market value or selling price of the
shares. Considering this subject in Adams Express Company
v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185, 221, the court said:
"The capital stock of a corporation and the shares of a
joint-stock company represent not only tangible property,
but also the intangible, including therein all corporate franchises and all contracts, privileges and good will of the concorn."
And in Pullman's Car Co. v. Transportation Company, 171
U. S.138, this was reiterated. The court, after observing that
while the franchise was one of the things entering into the
computation of market value of shares of stock, said (p. 154):
"The probable prospective capacity for earnings also enters
largely into the market value, and future possible earnings
again depend to a great extent upon the skill with which the
affairs of the company may be managed. These considerations, while they may enhance the value of the shares in the
market, yet do not in fact increase the value of the actual
property itself. They are matters of opinion upon which

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

81

Opinion of the Court.

persons selling and buying the stock may have different
views."
That this doctrine is the rule in California is clearly shown
by Bank of California v. San Francisco, 142 California, 276,

for in that case the court, speaking of such elements of value
as "dividend or profit-earning power or good-will," said
(p. 289):
"In this connection it will be observed that these elements,
so far as they may enter into the value of shares of stock,
would be included in an assessment of such shares to the
stockholders."
,The state banks and other corporations .are assessed on
their property. Conceding that every species ot property is
assessed which is specifically enumerated as taxable in the
state constitution, it does not follow that the assessment .f
property as such includes good will, dividend earning power,
confidence in the ability of the management, and all those
other intangible elements which necessarily enter into the
cash or selling value of shares of stock. As said in the passage,
already quoted from the Pullman case, supra, such elements
"may enhance the value of the shares of stock in the market,
yet they do riot in fact increase the value of the actual property itself. They are matters of opinion upon which persons
selling and buying the stock may have different views." In
the argument at bar no law of the State was referred to requiring that the assessing officers in valuing the property of
a corporation should assess as property its good will, its
dividend earning power, the confidence reposed in its officers,
etc. From this analysis it results that in the one case, that
of national banks, not only the value of all the tangible property, but also the value of all the intangible elements above
referred to is assessed and taxed, whilst in the other case, that
of state banks and other moneyed corporations, their. property is taxed, but the intangible elements of value which we
have indicated are not assessed and taxed, the consequence
being to give rise to the discrimination against national banks
voi,. cxcvii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

and in favor of state banks and other moneyed corporations
forbidden by the act of Congress.
In the argument at bar this conclusion, it is insisted, is
avoided because, whilst under the text of the state statutes
it may be that all the elements ofvalue which are included in
the assessment of shares of stock are not co nomine assessed
against state banks and other moneyed corporations as property, 1hey are, nevertheless, assessed against such corporations under the denomination of "franchise," the duty of the
assessing officer to do so being imperative, as the result of the
interpretation given to the taxing law by the Supreme Court
.of the State. The proposition is thus stated in the argument
of counsel:
"Under the California system, all the property of California
corporations is assessed, including their franchises. It is frequently the case that the market value of the stock of the
corporation is greatly in excess of the value of its property,
other than its franchise. This fact was called to the attention
of the state court, which recognized the force of this suggestion, and held the constitution and laws of the State require
the assessment and taxation of the franchise of the corporation,
and that its value for the purpose of such assessment and taxation was properly ascertained by deducting from the market
value of its stock the value of its corporate property and assessing the remainder as franchises."
It may be conceded that if the statutes have ben interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State as thus asserted,
and that as so interpreted they have been applied by the
assessing officers, there would be an end to the discrimination
which we have seen arises from the consideration of the result
of the statutes when not so interpreted.
The question then is, do the decisions of the Supreme Court
of California, as contended, place the positive duty on the
assessor of including in an assessment of the franchises of state
corporations all the elements of value which form part of the
market or selling value of shares of stock?

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

83

Opinion of the Court.

Three cases are cited to sustain the proposition, viz., San
Jos6 Gas Company v. January, 57 California, 614; Spring
Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 62 California, 69, and Bank
of California v. San Francisco, 142 California, 276.
Before coming to consider the last case cited, which is the
one principally relied upon, we dispose of the two others by
saying that they do not support the proposition. The first
simply decided that where a part of a tax was asserted to be
'illegal and a part was admitted to be valid, the duty existed
to pay the confessedly legal part to justify relief concerning
the portion claimed to be illegal. The second case but decided that the franchises of corporations were taxable as property, and where a corporation enjoyed other franchises than
the right to exist as a corporation, and the board of equalization in assessing such franchises had treated them as equivalent in value to the selling value of the capital stock, the courts
had no power to interfere with the discretion lodged in the
assessing officers. In the last cited and latest decided case,
Bank of Californiav. San Francisco, the controversy was this:
The Bank of California was assessed on its property. The
difference between the value of such property and the cash
or selling or market value of the shares of stock of the corporation was $2,943,096.92. The franchise, instead of being assessed for this amount, was valued only at $750,000. This
valuation was resisted by the bank, upon the ground that it
was so large that it must have included good will, dividend
earning capacity, etc.. which, it was asserted, could not under
the law be embraced in an assessment of franchises. The
court. elaborately reasoned (there being two dissenting judges)
that in view of the power of the assessofs to value property
it "c~uld not say" that the assessing officers' had transceided their authority in making the valuation complained
of, Speaking of the duty of the assessing officers, it was said
(p.288):
"'Thu duty of making the valuation was cast upon the
assessor. The method of arriving at the valuation, the process

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

by which his mind reached the conclusion (in case where, as
here, it is not pretended that he acted fraudulently or dishonestly) is matter committed to his determination.'
This appears to be determinative of the contention here
made.

.

.

(p. 289):

Whether or not the whole differ-

ence between the aggregate market value of the shares of stock
and the value of the tangible property, viz., $2,943,096.92was the value of the franchise, the assessor certainly had the
right to take the value of the shares into consideration in determining the value of the franchise; and were we at liberty
to review the judgment of the assessor and of the board of
equalization upon those matters, we could not say that an
assessment of $750,000 thereon is unjust, or that it includes
such elements as dividend or profit-earning power, or good
will, which, it is claimed, should not be taken into consideration in determining the value of the property of the corporation."
After pointing out that these elements entered into the
assessment of shares of stock at their market value, it was
observed (p. 289):
"It is clear that if the laws of the State properly express
the intention that everything that gives value to the shares
of a corporation shall be assessed as property'of the corporation, the true value of those shares is a most important element in determining the value of such property."
In other words, the court simply declared that if the law
of the State properly expressed the purpose to tax everything
of value, the assessor had a discretion to consider what was
the selling value of shares of stock in fixing the value of the
franchise. Instead of supporting the contention that the law
obliged the assessor to attribute to the franchise the value of
those intangible elements which it was conceded were embraced in the assessment of shares of stock, the reasoning of
the opinion is to the contrary. As the cash, selling or market
value of the stock in the case before the court was conceded
to have been nearly three million dollars greater than the

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

85

Opinion of the Court.

tangible property assessed to the corporation, and the assessor
had valued the franchise not at that sum, but at only $750,000,
it is patent that if the law of California had been what it is now
asserted the court held it to be, that the claim that there was
an overvaluation of the franchise would have been so frivolous
as to require only a statement of the law to decide against the
claim of overvaluation.
But the court made no such statement. On the contrary,
it stated its inability to judicially declare that an assessment
was extravagant and grossly unjust which was more than
two millions lower than it should have been if the law imposed
the Obligation on the assessor of valuing the franchise by the
difference between the value of the tangible property assessed
and the cash or selling value of the shares of stock. This
inability -to give relief was placed solely upon the discretion
which: the law lodged in the assessor. But this interpretation
of the statute serves only to further demonstrate the discrimination which has been previously pointed out. The result is
made clear by comparing. the discretion lodged in the assessor
in valuing the franchise of state banks or other moneyed corporations with the duty resting on him as to the valuation of
shares of national banks. The wide difference between the
discretion on the one hknd and the duty on the other will be
additionally demonstrated by a consideration of the discrimination against national banks which has arisen in the practical
execution of the statutes.
In the agreed statement of facts it was admitted that there
are in the State of California one hundred and seventy-eight
commercial (or state) banks, possessing .a vast amount of
capital, eighteen of which were located in San Francise).
And, to quote from the statement, "that the manner in which
franchises of commercial banks and trust companies were
assessed for said fiscal year ending June- 30, 1901, by the assessor of the city and county of San Francisco, is illustrated
by the case of the Bank of California, a banking corporation
organized under the laws of the State of California." ,The

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

assessment in question, which it is thus declared in the statement of facts is illustrative of the other assessments against
state banks, was the one which was involved in the controversy
decided in the Bank of California case, supra. It is then
recited in the agreed statement that the total property resources of the Bank of California, correcting a misprint in the
record, were $5,156,903.08; and that the market or selling value
of its capital stock was $8,100,000, a difference of $2,943,096.92;
and that, deducting from the resources of the bank certain
exemptions, the bank was assessed for property at $2,311,774.
To this last mentioned sum was added for franchise tax, not
the difference between the value of the property and the selling value of the stock, which, as stated, was nearly three
millions of dollars, but only $750,000. It is'insisted in argument that this statement shows but a single case of undervaluation of a state bank by the assessors, and therefore does
not justify the conclusion that in the exercise of their discretion the assessors had not generally, as to state banks and
corporations, valued the franchises at less than the difference
between the value of the property taxed and the market or
selling value of the stock. But this contention disregards the
fact that, by the agreed statement, it was expressly admitted
that the assessment in question was illustrative of the assessments upon the other state banks and moneyed corporations.
In view of the issues in the cause, as to which the facts were
agreed, to say that the assessment in question only illustrated
the case of the Bank of California would require us to disregard the agreed statement.
Finally, it is contended that, even if the state banks and
other state moneyed corporations were assessed as illustrated
by the valuation placed on the Bank of California, the complainant national bank has no reason to complain because the
assessment put upon its shares of stock was relatively no
higher than that put upon the Bank of California, and therefore no (iscrimination was occasioned. This is predicated
upon the fact that the value per share affixed to the stock of

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

87

Opinion of the Court.

the complainant national bank was not higher, having sole
reference to the value of thestock as shown by the book value
of the assets, and, considering allowable deductions, than was
the assessment put upon the Bank of California, considering
.alone the same elements. But there is no proof whatever that
the stock of the complainant bank had a market or selling
value higher than the value affixed to it by the assessor; and
the items which were made the basis of the assessment against
the stock are declared in the agreed statement to be the entire
assets of the bank, and in the argument at bar on behalf of
the assessor the value of the shares of stock of the bank in
excess of their book value is assumed to have been only nominal. The proposition, therefore, comes to this, although the
complainant national bank was assessed at the full value of
its stock, there was no discrimination in favor of the state
bank, albeit there was a difference in excess of two millions of
dollars between the value put upon the property and franchise of the state bank and the sum which should have been
levied against it, if all the elements had been assessed which
enter into the value of shares of stock. And, thus analyzed,
the contention is again reducible to this proposition, that
where property of one person worth a given amount is assessed
for its full value no discrimination in favor of another results
when the latter is assessed for a sum greatly below the value
of the property assessed.
What has just been said disposes also of the contention that
if the national bank had been assessed under the state law by
the rule applied to state banks it would have had affixed to
its property a slightly higher valuation than was given as the
value of the shares of its capital stock. Without stopping to
point out the error in the calculation by which this result is
supposed to be demonstrated, it suffices to say that the contention would have merit only in the event that'the property
and franchise of all state banks had no higher value than the
book value of the shares of stock. The fallacy underlying
the whole contention cannot better be made clear than by

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

the mere reiteration of the statement that, under the facts
as agreed, it is obvious that the shares of stock of the national bank were assessed for all they were worth under the
rule of market or selling value, whilst the state bank was
only assessed for $750,000 above the book value of the
stock, although the cash, selling or market value would
have required an assessment of nearly three millions of dollars.
Many contentions were argued at bar involving the assertion that the state law was invalid because of deductions of
debts or exempt property which, it was asserted, the law
allows to state banks and other moneyed corporations on an
assessment of their property al does not allow holders of
shares of stock in national banks. Most of these contentions
are in effect disposed of by the consideration which we have
given to the proposition that the state law was void simply
because it established different methods of taxation as to the
two classes of corporations, In so far as the contentions
referred to are not in effect disposed of by our conclusions on
that subject, we content ourselves with saying that we think
all such propositions were rightly decided by the court below
to be without merit, for the reasons expressed in the opinion
delivered by that court in the Nevada Bank case, to which the
court referred and upon which it placed its rulings. We decide this case solely upon the record before us. Our conclusion, therefore, does not deny the power of the State of California to assess shares of stock in national banks, provided
only the method adopted does not produce the discrimination
prohibited by the act of Congress. From this, of course, it
would follow that if the statutes of California, either from their
text or as construed by the highest court of that State, compelled the assessing officers in the valuation of the property
of state banks and other state moneyed corporations to inelude all those elements of value which are embraced in the
assessment of shares of stock in national banks so that there
would be an equality of taxation as respects national banks,

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v,. DODGE.
197 U. S.,

BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

89

JJ., dissenting.

the discrimination which we find to exist under the present
state of the law of California would disappear.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the
decree of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the cause is
remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
JUSTICE BROWN and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concur, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the foregoing opinion, and, believing that a grevious wrong is done to the State of California,
will state the reasons for my dissent. Section 5219, Rev.
Stat., prescribes the conditions and limitations of state taxation of national banks. In reference to it we said in Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, 669:
"This section, then, of the Revised Statutes is the measure
of the power of a State to tax national banks, their property
or their franchises. By its unambiguous provisions the power
is confined to a taxation of the shares of stock in the names of
the shareholders and to an assessment of the real estate of
the bank."
By the section two restrictions,, and two only, are placed
on the power of the State to tax the shares of stock: "That
the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such State, and that the shares of any national banking association owned by non-residents of any Stae shall be taxed in
the city or town where the bank is located, and not elsewhere."
No uniform rule is prescribed by Congress as to the mode
of assessment or the manner in which the State shall impose
its burden of taxation on the shares of stock in national banks.
Each State is left to determine that according to its own judgment. All that is demanded is that in fact neither the rate
of tax nor the assessment shall discriminate against national
banks, and that the property subject to taxation shall not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J.,The

CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U.S.

burdened in excess of the burdens cast upon other moneyed
capital.

Davenport Banc v. Davenport, 123 U. S. 83.

The mandate of section 1 of the constitution of California is:
"All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of
the United States, shall be taxed in proportion to its value,
to be ascertained as provided by law. The word 'property,'
as used in this article and section, is hereby declared to include
moneys, credits. bonds, stocks, dues, franchises, and all other
matters anld things, real, personal and mixed, capable of
private ownership."
Thus the constitution requires the taxation of all property
an d a taxation in proportion to its value, and defines property
as including everything capable of private ownership. Certainly, if the mandate of the constitution is expressed in the
statute the shares of stock in national banks will be subjected
to the same rate of taxation as all other property in the State,
including therein moneyed capital. It must, therefore, be
held that the legislation respecting the taxation of national
bank shares is in defiance of the state constitution before it
can be adjudged in conflict with the equality provision of
section 5219, Rev. Stat. Or, in other words, that the legislature of California disregarded the requirements of their own
constitution in order to subject to taxation property protected by Federal laws.
The legislation of California in this regard is found in section 3608 of the Political Code, as amended in 1899, and two
additional sections enacted in that year, numbered 3609 and
3610:
"SEC. 3608. Shares of stock in corporations possess no intrinsic value over and above the actual value of the property
of the corporation which they stand for and represent; and the
assessment and taxation of such shares, and also all the corporate property, would be druble taxation. Therefore, all property belonging to corporations save and except the property
of national banking associations not 'assessable by Federal
statute shall be assessed and taxed. But no assessment shall

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN,

PECKHAM,

91

JJ., dissenting.

be made of shares of stock in any corporation, save and except
in national banking associations, whose property, other than
real estate, is exempt from assessment by Federal statute.
"S~c. 3609. The stockholders in every national banking association doing business in this State, and having its principal
place of business located in this State, shall be assessed and
taxed on the value of their shares of stock therein; and said
shares shall be valued and assessed as is other property for
taxation, and shall be included in the valuation of the personal
property of such stockholders in the assessment of the taxes
at the place, city, town, and county where such national banking association is located, and not elsewhere, whether the said
stockholders reside in said place, city, town, or county, or not;
but in the assessment of such shares each stockholder shall be
allowed all the deductions permitted by law to the holders of
moneyed capital in the form of solvent credits, in the same
manner as such deductions are allowed by the provisions of
paragraph six of section thirty-six hundred and twenty-nine
of the Political Code of the State of California. In making
such assessment to each stockholder, there shall be deducted
from the value of his shares of stock such sum as is in the
same proportion to such value as the total value of its real
estate and property exempt by law from taxation bears to
the whole value of all the shares of capital stock in said national bank. And nothing herein shall be construed to exempt
the real estate of such national bank from taxation. And the
assessment and taxation of such shares of stock in -said national banking associations shall not be at a greater rate than
is made or assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of this State
"SEC. 3610. The assessor charged by law with the assessment
of said shares shall, within ten days after he has made such
assessment, give written notice to each national banking association of such assessment of the shares of its respective shareholders; and no personal or other notice to iuch shareholders
of such assessment shall be necessary for the purpose of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U.S.

act. And in case the tax on any such stock is unsecured by
real estate owned by. the holder of such stock, then the bank
in which said stock is held shall become liable therefor; and
the assessor shall collect the same from said bank, which may
then charge the amount of the tax so collected to the account
of the stockholder owning. such stock, and shall have a lien,
prior to all other liens, on his said stock, and the dividend
and earnings thereof, for the reimbursement to it of such
taxes so paid."
The rule of valuation is prescribed by the fifth subdivision
of section 3617 of the Political Code, which provides that "the
terms 'value' and 'full cash value' mean the amount at which
the property would be taken in payment of a just debt due
from a solveit debtor." It is true that prior to 1881 market
value was made the rule of valuation, but the section prescribing that rule was, so far as it applied to national bank
shares, adjudged void by the Supreme Court of the State,
Miller v. Heilbron, 58 California, 133, and wholly repealed by
the legislature (Stat. 1881, p. 59), and in lieu of that the
present rule of valuation established. But the rule of valua7tion is not so material, and doubtless an established market
value would be the amo eat at which property would be taken
in payment of a just debt due from a solvent debtor. The
main thing is that the same rule of valuation shall be applied
to the assessment and taxation of national bank shares as of
other moneyed capital. And the express declaration of section 3609 is that the shares inl national banks "shall be valued
and assessed as is other property for taxation."
'From the sections quoted it appears that the method of
reaching the property of state 'corporations for purposes of
taxation is by treating the corporation as owner of all and
casting the burden of taxation directly upon it, while on the
other hand, in obedience to the requirements of the Federal
statute, taxation in respect to national banks is limited to an
iossessment and taxation of the shares of stock. But there is
no discrimination if the same property is reached by each

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTiCE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

93

JJ., dissenting.

method and by each subjected to the same rule of valuation.
By section 3608 all the property of state corporations must
be assessed and taxed, and the word" property" is defined
by the constitution to include not merely tangible assets but
also "franchises, and all other matters and things, real, personal, and mixed, capable of private ownership." Everything, therefore, which is a part of the property of a state
corporation is subject to assessment and taxation. No other
or larger burden is cast upon shares of national banks, and
surely there can be no discrimination when the entire property
in the one instance is taxed as a whole to the corporation and
in the other instance subdivided and taxed to the stockholder.
The whole is neither less nor more than all its parts. But it
is said there is no specific command to include in the property
of a state corporation the good will, dividend earning power
and the like,. and that they are necessarily included in the
selling value of the stock of any corporation. It is true, these
items are not in terms mentioned, but neither are desks and
furniture. The language is geneikal, so general that it includes
everything, not excepting good. will, dividend earning power
and the like, for they are "capable of private ownership."
They belong to the corporation. There is no good will in a
share of stock over and above the good will which belongs to
the corporation, and if the corporation sells and conveys all
that it possesses "capable of private ownership," it sells and
conveys its good will, and there is nothing left of good will or
anything else belonging to the stockholders. This is so plain
that he who runs may read. It is hardly necessary.in a matter
so clear to refer to the decisions of the Supreme Court of
California, and yet they are direct upon the proposition. Thus
in Burke v. Badlam, 57 California, 594, the court said (pp. 601,
602):
"Now, what is the stock of a corporation but its propertyconsisting of its franchise and such other property as the
corporation may own? Of what else does its stock consist?
If all this is taken away, what remains? Obviously nothing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

When, therefore, all of the property of the corporationis assessed
-its franchise and all of its other property of every characterthen all of the stock of the corporation is assessed, and the mandate of the constitution is complied with. This property is held
by the corporation in trust for the stockholders, who are the
beneficial owners of it in certain proportions called shares,
and which are usually evidenced by certificates of stock. The
share of each stockholder is undoubtedly property, but it 'is
an interest in the very property held by the corporation. It
is his right to a proportionate share of the dividends. and other
property of the corporation-nothing more. When the property of the corporation is assessed to it, and the tax thereon
paid, who but the stockholders pay it? It is true that it is paid
from the treasury of the corporation before the money therein
is divided, but it is substantially the same thing as if paid from
the pockets of the individual stockholders. To assess all of
the corporate property of the corporation, and also to assess
to each of the stockholders the number of shares held by him,
would, it is manifest, be assessing the same property twice,
once in the aggregate to the corporation, the trustee of all the
stockholders, and again separately ta the individual stockholders, in proportion to the number of shares held by each.
As well might it be contended that the property of a partnership should be assessed to the firm, and in addition, that the
interest of each partner in the firm property should be assessed
to him individually. If I have an interest in partnership
property, my interest therein is property. It is the right I
have to share in the profits and property of the firm, in: proportion to the interest I own. But my property rights are
confined to the property held by the firm, just as the property
rights of the stockholder in the corporation are confined to the
property held by the corporation. In the case of the partnership, take away all of the property of the firm, and I have no
longer any property as a partner. In the case of the corporation, take away all of its property, which, it must be remembered, includes its franchise, and the shareholder no longer

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S. BnizwE, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

95

BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

has any property. The cases are parallel. If in the one case
it is competent to assess to the corporation all of the property
held by it, and to the individual stockholders the respective
interest owned by each therein, so must it be competent to
assess to every partnership the property held by the firm, and
to each individual partner his interest therein. It is clear to
our minds that in the one case the partner and in the other
the stockholder would be compelled to pay twice on the same
property, which is neither required nor permitted by the constitution. In the case of the corporation to which we have referred the legislature has declared that all of the property held by
such corporations shall be assessed to them. It has not attempted
to exempt any property from taxation not exemptcd by the constitution itself, and of course could not do it if it had. It has
only said that the property shall be assessed to the corporation,
and shall not be again assessed for the same tax. This it had
the right to say." (Italics in this and succeeding quotations
are mine.)
It will be seen from this quotation that the court places
partnerships on the same basis as corporations. If the partnership sells out its property, including its good will mnd its
profit earning power, which are part of its property under the
constitutional definition of property, there is nothing left to
the separate partners. The whole thing has passed to the purchaser, and in the same way when a corporation makes a sale.
And to hold that the good will and profit earning power must
be specifically mentioned is to hold that the constitutional
definition of property is insufficient; that good will and profit
earnivg power are not "capable of private ownership," or do
not belong to the corporation. Burke v. Badlam was reaffirmed
in Bank of California v. San Francisco, 142 California, 276,
decided since the decision of this case by the Court of Appeals.
This case is very instructive. It was an action brought by
the plaintiff, a state bank, to have an assessment of its franchise declared illegal and void, and to recover the amount paid
by it under protest as taxes thereon, The contention of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U.S.

plaintiff wag that it did not own or possess any franchise
whatever, that the only franchise in any way connected with
it was the corporate franchise, the franchise of being a corporation, which was the-property of the stockholders and not
assessable or taxable to the corporation. It appears from the
opinion that the assessor found that the aggregate value of the
tangible property of the bank was $5,156,903.08, that the market value of all the shares of the capital stock was $8,100,000,
and the difference between the two was by him ascertained
and determined to be the value of the franchise of the bank.
The State was not challenging the assessment, and of course
no inquiry wa made as to the propriety of an increase in the
valuation.
In reply to the contention of the plaintiff the court uses this
language:
"It was said by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594, 606: 'Corporate
franchises are legal entities vested in the corporation itself
as soon as it is in esse. They are not mere naked powers
granted to the corporation, but powers coupled with an interest which vest in the corporation, upon the possession of
its franchises, and whatever may be thought of the corporators, it cannot be denied that the corporation itself has a
legal interest in such franchises.'
"If this corporate franchise is assessable as property, then,
that it must be assessed to the corporation instead of the
members or stockholders is clearly settled in this State by the
decision, in Burke v. Badlam, 57 California, 594, where it was
held that a stockholder could not be assessed upon his certificate
of stock, inasmuch as his shares were simply an interest in the
very property held by the corporation, and the assessment of all
the property of the corporation covered everything represented by

the certificate. (See also Pol. Code, § 3608.)"
Again, referring to Burke v. Badlam, supra, the court-said
(p. 285):
"This case necessarily involved the question as to the con-

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,*JJ.,

9)7

dissenting.

stitutionality of section 3608 of the Political Code, prohibiting
the assessment of shares of stock to the holders thereof. Such
shares being undoubtedly property, unless they were otherwise assessed, the section was clearly unconstitutional, in view
of the provision of the constitution requiring all property to
be taxed. According to the decision of the court they were under
the law to be otherwise assessed-i. e., everything represented by
the certificates was to be assessed to the corporation."
And again, on p. 289:
"Whether or not the whole difference between the aggregate
market value of the shares of stock and the value of the tangible
property-viz., $2,943,096.92-was the value of the franchise,
the assessor certainly had the right to take the value of the shares
into considerationin determining the value of the franchise; and
were we at liberty to review the judgment of the assessor and the
board of equalization upon those matters, we could not say that
an assessment of $750,000 thereon is unjust, or that it includes
such elements as dividend or profit earning power, or good will,
which, it is claimed, should not be taken into consideration in
determining the value of the property of the corporation. In this
connection, it will be observed that these elements, so far as they
may enter into the value of shares of stock, would be included in
an assessment of such shares to the stockholders, a method of
assessment which the State is at liberty to adopt,-in fact bound
to adopt,-unless such shares are otherwise covered by the assessment of the property of the corporation.
"It is clear that if the laws of this State properly express
the intention that everything that gives value to the shares
of a corporation shall be assessed as property of the corporation, the true value of those shares is a most important element in determining the value of such property."
I have made these extensive quotations from the opinions,
of the Supreme Court of California, for in cases like this we
follow the construction placed by the highest court of the
State upon its statutes. Obviously, that court construes them
as including within the corporate property the aggregate value
VOL. CXcVI-T

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

of all the shares of stock and that while they forbid the assessment and taxation of shares of stock in a state corporation,
they require that all the value represented by those shares of
stock be assessed and taxed against the corporation; so that
when you ascertain the value of a single share of stock and
multiply that by the number of shares in the corporation you
have the value of the corporate property subject to taxation.
After declaring that the prohibition of the assessment and
taxation of shares was clearly unconstitutional, unless they
were otherwise assessed, it added, referring to the case of
Burke v. Badlam, "according to the decision of the court they
were under the law to be otherwise assessed, i. e., everything
represented by the certificates was to be assessed to the corporation." Now, if as claimed, the shares represent not merely
the tangible property but the franchise, .the dividend earning
power, then, as stated, "everything represented by the certificates was to be assessed to the corporation." And this language is followed by the declaration, referring to dividends,
profits, earning power, good will, etc.: "In this connection, it
will be observed that these elements, so far as they may enter
into the value of shares of stock, would be included in an
assessment of such shares to the stockholders, a method of
assessment which the State is at liberty to adopt,-in fact
bound to adopt,-unless such shares are otherwise covered by
the assessment of the property of the corporation." Reference is made to the use of the word "if" in the last paragraph
of the quotation, as though that implied a doubt as to the
meaning of the state statutes. But surely that. cannot be, in
view of the prior declaration in the same opinion, that "everything represented by the certificates was to be assessed to the
corporation." The paragraph is to be read as though it said
that provided the laws of the State properly express the intention, as we have already held that they do, then the true
value of the shares is an important element in determining, the
value of the corporate property. The same word "if" is used
at the commencement of the second paragraph d the quota-

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

JUSTICE,
J., The CHREIE

BROWN, PECKHAM,

99

JJ., dissenting.

tion "if this corporate franchise is assessable as property,"

in like manner, for the word "franchises" is found' in the
constitutional definition of property, the paragraph preceding
"if" declares that "the corpofation itself has a legal interest
in such franchises," and the very paragraph says that "the
assessment of all the property of the corporation covered
everything represented by the certificate." Certainly it seems
to me there is no justification in torturing this word "if"
as overthrowing all the clear declarations of the court, as well
as implying a destruction of the plain letter of the statutes.
But great reliance is placed upon the admission in the
agreed statement of facts, "that the manner in which franchises of commercial banks and trust companies were assessed
for said fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, by the assessor of
the city and county of San Francisco, is illustrated by the
case of the Bank of California, abanking corporation organized
under the laws of the State of California." In the assessment
of that bank the assessor did not add to the value of the
tangible property the difference between that value and the
market value of the capital stock, but a sum very much less.
A tabulated statement is also annexed, showing the financial
condition during the year of the 178 state banks of California.
It might be sufficient to say that the stipulation is satisfied
by a conclusion that the assessor in assessing state banks generally added to the value of the tangible property something
on account of the franchise-we are not compelled to infer
that to the valuation of the tangible property of each bank
he added $750,000, or even that he failed to add the full difference between the value of that property and that of the stock.
Indeed, it does not appear from the 'tabular statement that
the market value of the shares in a single state bank in California exceeded the value of its tangible property., So that,
so far as that evidence goes, the only case in which there was
any franchise value to be added was that of the Bank of
California. But more significant is this: It appears from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF

JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

agreed statement that the assessment complained of in this
case was made in the following way:
"The defendant in making his assessment fixed the value
of the shares for taxation at $104.35 each, and arrived at that
valuation in the following manner: He added to the capital
stock of the bank, $500,000, its undivided profits amounting
to $77,260, deducted the face value of United States bonds
held by it, $50,000, and the value of its furniture, $5,500,
leaving $521,760 as the total assessable value, and dividing
that by the number of shares made the assessable value of
each share the sum above stated."
In other words, the only assessment against the plaintiff's
shares was based upon the value of the tangible property.
Not a dollar was added to the valuation on account of franchise, good will, or dividend earning power, or anything of
that kind. Or, to put it in another form, the assessment of
the state bank added to the value of the tangible property
something for the value of the franchise, the assessment of
the plaintiff stopped with the tangible property, and yet it is
held that there was an actual unjust discrimination against
the plaintiff. And how is this conclusion reached? By assuming that the shares in. the plaintiff bank had no value above
the value of the tangible property. But this is a mere assumption. A more rational guess would be that the shares of stock
in a bank whose undivided profits were over fifteen per cent
of its capital had a value much above the par value of i~s stock
or the value of its tangible property. And can it be that the
whole system of the legislation of a State in respect to the
taxation of national banks can be stricken down upon an unfounded assumption that the shares of a given national bank
were worth more than its tangible property? If the complaint was of an actual discrimination it was a part of the
plaintiff's duty to prove it, and show that its shares had no
value above that of the tangible property, and would not "be
taken in payment of a just debt due from a solvent debtor"
at a larger sum. The most elementary rule of judicial pro-

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

101

BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

ceedings is that a party to make out his cause of action must
prove, not assume, the existence of all essential facts.
But I need not rest upon the omission of proof. There is
no allegation of any discrimination 'based upon such difference of valuation. The eleventh and twelfth paragraphs of
the complaint state the wrongs on account of which relief is
sought. In order that there may be no misunderstanding
of the full scope of the causes of action alleged I quote these
paragraphs entire:
"Eleventh.-That the said assessment and taxation, so as
aforesaid threatened to be made and levied by the respondent
upon the shares of the capital stock of your orator, will be in
violation of, and repugnant to, the provisions of sections 5219
and 1977 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in that
the said assessment and taxation will be at a greater rate than
is or will be assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of the said State of California. And in
that behalf your orator shows that under and by virtue of the
laws of the said State of California, all shares of stock in corporations organized under the laws of the said State and
amounting to more than the sum of two hundred million
dollars ($200,000,000), and especially in corporations organized
under the laws of the said State for the purpose of banking,
all shares of stock thereof amounting to more than the sum of
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000), are expressly exempt
from assessment and taxation, and the same are not subject
thereto, and that the respondent has not assessed and will not
assess, for the said fiscal year ending June 30th, 1901, and does
not intend to assess, to the holders of shares in corporations
organized under the laws of the said State of California, the
value of the same, or to collect from such shareholders any
taxes on said shares or the value thereof.
"And your orator further shows that the said pretended
assessment and taxation so as aforesaid threatened to be made
and levied by the respondent upon the shares of the capital
stock of your orator will be in violation of, and repugnant to,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

the provisions of said section 5219 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, in that the said taxation will be at a
greater rate than will be assessed upon any other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens in the State of
California. And in that behalf your orator further shows that
in assessing and taxing the said shares of the capital stock of
your orator, no deduction will, or can legally, be made from
the valuation of said shares, or any of them, of debts unsecured
by deed of trust, mortgage or other lien on real or personal
property due or owing by the stockholders of your orator, or
by any of them, to bona fide residents of the State of California;
and that in assessing and taxing other moneyed capital in the
form of solvent credits unsecured by deed of trust, mortgage
or other lien on real or personal property, due or owing to, or
in the hands of, individual citizens in said State of California,
the respondent does and will make a deduction from said
credits, under and by the constitution and laws of the State
of California, of the debts unsecured by trust deed, mortgage
or other lien on real or personal property as may be owing by
such individual citizens, or by any of them, to bona jide residents of the State of California, and that said threatened
assessment and taxation of the shares of your orator is, and
will be unjust, unlawful and illegal, and will discriminate
against and upon such shares and against and upon the persons owning and holding the same, and will compel them to
sustain and bear more than their just share and burden of the
taxes of the said State of California. And in this behalf your
orator further avers that it is informed and believes, and upon
such information and belief states the fact to be, that the
amount of moneyed capital in the city and county of San
Francisco in said State of California on the first Monday of
March, 1900, to wit, on March 5, 1900, at noon of said day,
invested by banks and bankers, having their principal place
of business in said city and county, and residents therein, in
unsecured solvent credits, and from which, under the constitution and laws of said State, unsecured debts can be de-

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

103

BREwER, J., The CIE JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKRfAM, JJ., dissenting.

ducted, was the sum of $14,074,561; and on the day and year
last aforesaid the amount of moneyed ca)ital in the State of

California, other than in the said city and county of San
Francisco, invested by banks and bankers in unsecured solvent
credits, and from which, under the constitution and laws of
said State, unsecured debts can be deducted, was the sum of
$7,589,302; that on'the day and year last aforesaid said banks
and bankers at said city and county of San Francisco had
debts unsecured by trust deed, mortgage or other lien on real
or personal property owing by such banks and bankers in said
city and county, amounting to the sum of $36,710,062; and
that on said (lay last aforesaid the amount of dbts unsecured
by trust deed, mortgage or other lien on real or personal
property owing by said banks and bankers in the State of
California, other than in the said city and county of San
Francisco, was the sum of $32,400,304; that the amount of
moneyed capital invested in such solvent credits by such
banks and bankers on the (lay and year last aforesaid, in said
city and county of San Francisco and in said State of California, as compared with the amount of moneyed capital invested in the shares of the capital stock of your orator, is so
large and substantial that the assessment and taxation of the
shares of the capital stock of your orator without deducting
therefrom, and without being able to deduct therefrom, debts
unsecured by trust deed, mortgage or other lien on real or
personal property, as may have been owing by the respective
holders of the shares of the capital stock of your orator on the
day and year last aforesaid, will be an illegal and unjust discrimination against the owners and holders of the shares of
the capital stock of your orator, and will make the taxation
of said shares of stock at a greater rate than is imposed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens in
the State of California, and. particularly in the city and county
of San Francisco, in said State. And in this behalf your orator
further avers that the said solvent credits so held as aforesaid
by banks and -bankers in the said city and county of San

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

Francisco and in the said State of California are moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State of
California, which enter into competition for business with
your orator.
"Twelfth.-That in the making of the said assessment of
the said shares of the capital stock of your orator the respondent will not proceed in the manner directed by the said act
of March 14, 1899, in this: That the said respondent, as hereinbefore set out, will ascertain and determine the value of each
of the shares of the capital stock of your orator to be the sum
of $115.452, and will deduct therefrom the sum of $11.10 per
share as the proportionate amount per share of the value of
the United States bonds held by your orator to secure its
circulation, and of its furniture, and will,, as hereinbefore set
out, assess to the stockholders the sum of $104.36 per share
as the value of each share of said capital stock by the said
respondent claimed to be subject to assessment and taxation
under the provisions of said act of March 14, 1899, and that
the respondent will wholly fail and refuse to make any other
or further deductions from such ascertained value of said
shares, in order to determine the assessable value thereof,
whereas, by the provisions of said section 3609 of the Political
Code of the State of California, under and in pursuance whereof
the respondent has threatened and intends to make the said
assessment and will proceed to demand and will attempt to
collect the taxes aforesaid, he was and is required to deduct
from the value of each share of the capital stock of your orator,
such sum as is in the same proportion to such value as the
total value of the real estate and property of your orator
exempt by law from taxation bears to the whole value of all
the shares of the capital stock of your orator. That on the
first Monday of March, 1900, to wit, on March 5, 1900, at
twelve o'clock M. of said day, your orator had not, and thence
hitherto has not had, nor has it now, any real estate, and as
in paragraph 'Eighth' hereof averred, all of the property of
your orator consisted on said day and at said time, and has

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S. BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JuSTICE, BROWN,

105

PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

thence hitherto consisted, and does now consist of its bonds,
money on hand, credits, furniture and other personal property,
and on said day and at said time the same constituted and
were, and thence hitherto have been, and now are, the assets
of your orator, and were and are used and employed by it in
the conduct and carrying on its business as a national banking association under and by virtue of the provisions of the
act of the Congress of the United States known as the National
Banking Act, and were and are exempt by law from assessment and taxation. That if deduction of all the property
of your orator exempt from assessment and taxation as last
aforesaid were made to each stockholder in assessing said
stock there would remain nothing of value subject to assessment and taxation, and that the pretended assessment and
taxation of said shares at said value of $104.36 per share
would be based wholly upon supposed and fictitious property
and upon property exempt by the Constitution and laws of
the United States from assessment and taxation."
The first of these paragraphs alleges a violation of the
Federal statute in the taxation of plaintiff's shares of stock,
because under and by virtue of the laws of California all shares
of stock in state corporations are exempt from assessment
and taxation, and the assessor does not intend to assess to
the holders the value of those shares. But, as repeatedly held,
a mere difference in the methods of state and national bank
taxation is not repugnant to the act of Congress. The balance
of the paragraph is substantially a charge of a discrimination
by reason of a failure to deduct debts. But that, it is conceded in the opinion of the court, may be put one side-a
concession undoubtedly compelled by the facts as agreed upon,
for an opportunity was given to each stockholder in the plaintiff bank to have any debts deducted, and no one 6f -them
sought to avail of this privilege.
The other paragraph charges a discrimination and that the
assessor ascertained the value of the shares of the capital stock
of the plaintiff at the sum of $115.452 and deducted therefrom

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J.,The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ.,

dissenting. 197 U. S.

the sum of $11.10 per share as the proportionate share o1 the
value of United States bonds held by the bank; that he refused
to make any further deductions, although the various items of
property held by the bank, consisting of bonds, moneys,
credits, etc., "were and are used and employed by it in the
conduct and carrying on its business as a national banking
association, under and by virtue of the provisions of the act
of Congress of the United States, known as the National Bank
Act, and were and are exempt by law from taxation." The
complaint here is that the tangible property of the national
b4aik is wholly exempt from 'taxation because used for the
purpose of carrying on the banking business, and as the only
assessment of plaintiff's shares was based upon the value of
the tangible property the entire assessment was void. Now
it is not pretended in the opinion-of the court, nor can it be
successfully claimed in view of prior decisions of this court,
that shares of stock in a national bank are subject to taxation
to only the extent of the excess of their value above that of
the tangible property of the corporation and yet that is the
burden of plaintiff's complaint. I have made this extensive
quotation because it is apparent therefrom that the matter
which, in the judgment of the court is sufficient to overthrow
the law of Cdlifornia in respect to the taxation of national
banks, was not charged or complained of by the plaintiff. If
the plaintiff neither alleges nor proves any discrimination in
the matter of valuation I cannot understand why this court
-should assume that there was one, and, thereupon upset the
tax.
Further, there is no reference in the opinion of the Court
of Appeals to any discrimination in fact.
Still further, counsel for plaintiff in error evidently fail to
perceive any actual discrimination, as appears by this quotation from their brief:
'The

questions involved in the appeal are:

"(1) That the act of 1899, providing for the assessment
and taxation of shares of the capital stock of national banks,

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U.S.BREWER, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

107

JJ., dissenting.

is repugnant to the provisions of section 5219 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States:
"(a) Because shares of stock in the commercial banks of
the State are not taxed and are exempt;
"(b) Because by reason of the failure tq tax shares in the
commercial banks of the State,. the shares of national banks
are subjected to an adverse discrimination, and taxed at a
higher rate than such commercial bank shares;
"(c) Because the provisions, section 3609; are wholly void,
in that it is thereby undertaken to provide that a stockholder
may deduct from the value of his shares the amount of his
debts due to bona fide residents of the State.
"(2) That under the express provision of the Political
Code, section 3608 and section 3609, the whole property of
the appellant included in the assessment was exempt from
taxation."
The only reference to discrimination is the alleged legal one,
"by reason of the failure to tax shares in the commercial banks
of the State." If the failure to tax shares in the commercial
banks of the State does not of itself work a discrimination, as
is practically conceded in the opinion of the court, then the
whole basis of plaintiff's complaint fails.
Summing the matter up, the state constitution declares that
"all property . . . shall be taxed in proportion to its
value," and defines" property" as including " franchises, and all
other matters and things, real, personal, and mixed, capable
of private ownership." Franchises, dividend earning, profit
earning power, are capable of private ownership. Indeed,
the opinion of the court is based on the contention that they
are assessed to the holder of shares in national banks and not
assessed upon the state banks. Section 3608 provides that
"all property belonging to corporations save and except the
property of national banking associations, not assessable by
Federal statute shall be assessed and taxed." Section 3609,
that the shares in national banking associations "shall be
valued and assessed as is other property for taxation." The

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
U. S.
BREWER, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 197

Supreme Court of the State holds that a stockholder in a state
bank "could not be assessed upon his certificate of stock,
inasmuch as his shares were simply an interest in the very
property held by the corporation, and the assessment of all
the property of the corporationcovered everything represented
by the certificate." There is neither allegation nor evidence
that there was any overvaluation of the plaintiff's shares of
stock. The complaint is that there was a discrimination by
reason of the failure to deduct from the value of the shares the
entire value, of the bank's tangible property, because "used
and employed by it in the conduct and carrying on its business
as a national banking association." And yet in the face of
the plain words of the constitution and statutes, the clear
language of the Supreme Court of California, and the absence
of allegation or proof of actual discrimination, this court, by
its opinion, strikes down the whole system of California for the
taxation of shares of national banks.
But beyond and aside from the matters which I have considered, and conceding, for the purposes of the following
stiggestion, that the law of California providing for the taxation of shares of stock in national banks is invalid, still I
insist that the decree of the Court 6f Appeals ought to be
affirmed. This is an equitable suit brought in the United
States court, where the distinction between law and equity
is constantly enforced. Upon the theory of the opinion, the
tax upon the shaies of stock ,in the plaintiff bank was illegal.
The statute of California imposing that tax was void. Now,
there are two propositions which have entered into- the jufisprudence of this court so thoroughly that they may be regarded
as settled law: First, that equity, will not interfeve where there
is a plain, adequate and complete remedy, at law; and, second,
that injunction will not issue to restrain the collection of a tax
simply on the ground of its illegality. The first is not only the
rule.of the Court of Chancery in England, but it is the command
of the Federal statute. Section 723, Rev. Stat., reads: "Suits
in equity shall not be sustained in either 'of the courts.of the

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.

109

197 U. S. BREWER, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

United States in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at law."
This defense was pleaded by the defendant in his answer,
the sixteenth paragraph of which reads as follows:
"And respondent further submits to this honorable court
that complainant has a full, complete, speedy and adequate
remedy at law against respondent for all causes of action or
causes of actions, stated or attempted to be stated in complainant's bill of complaint on file in this action; and he here
claims the same benefit of the objection as if he had not demurred to the relief so sought."
Even if it had not been formally pleaded, the matter is one
which this court of its own motion would consider and determine. As said in Wright v. Ellison, 1 Wall. 16, 22:
"But this is a suit in equity. The rules of equity are as
fixed as those of law, and this court can no more depart from
the former than the latter. Unless the complainant has shown
a right to relief in equity, however clear his rights at law, he
can have no redress in this proceeding. In such cases, the
adverse party has a constitutional right to a trial by jury.
The objection isone, which though not raised by the pleadings nor suggested by counsel, this court is bound to recognize
and enforce."
It is unnecessary to cite the many cases in this court in
which this rule has been recognized, the latest being Scottish
Union Insurance Co. v. Bowland, the opinion in which
has just been filed, 196 U. S.611, though reference may
be made to the discussion by Mr. Justice Field in Whitehead
v. Shattuck, 138 U. S.146, and in Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S.106,
and by Mr. Justice Brown in Wehrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S.
314. Now, in California there is a perfectly adequate legal
remedy for cases of this nature. Section 3819 of the Political
Code provides that "the owner of any property

.

.

.

who

may claim that the assessment is void in whole or in part,
may pay the same to the tax collector under protest, which
protest shall be in writing, and shall specify rhether the whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

assessment is claimed to be void, or if a part only, what portion, and in either case the grounds upon which such claim is
founded; and when so paid under protest the payment shall
in no case be regarded as voluntary payment, and such owner
mayat any time within six months after such payment bring
an action against the county in the Superior Court, to recover
back the tax so paid under protest." Such a-remedy has, in
a case of the taxation of national bank shares, been held by
this court adequate and complete, and sufficient to exclude
the interposition of a court of equity. In Dows v. City of
Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, which was a bill filed by the owner of
shares of the capital stock of the Union National Bank of
.Chicago, to restrain the collection of a tax levied by that city
upon his shares, we said (p. 112):
"The equitable powers of the court can only be invoked
by the presentation of a case of equitable, cognizance. There

can be no such case, at least in the Federal courts, where there
is a plain and adequate remedy at law. And except'where
the special circumstances which we have mentioned exist, the
party of whom an illegal tax is collected has ordinarily ample
remedy, either by action against the 'officer making the collection or the body to whom the tax is paid. -Here such remedy
existed. If the tax was illegal, the' plaintiff protesting against
its enforcement might have had his action, after it was paid,
against the officer or the city to recover back the money, or he
might hate prosecuted either for his damages. No irreparable injury would have followed to him from its collection.
Nor would he have been compelled to resort to a multiplicity
of suits to determine his rights. His entire claim might have
been embraced in a single action."
And this case was reaffirmed by the unanimous opinion of
this court in the late case of Pittsburg &c. Railway v. Board
of Public Works, 172 U. S. 32, in which the quotation I have
just made is also quoted.
The second, proposition to which I have referred has also
been often decided. Out of the many'decisions I refer to only

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S.

BREWER,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BROWN, PECKHAM,

111

JJ., dissenting.

two or three. Dows v. City ol Chicago, supra, in which is
this language (p. 109):
"Assuming the tax to be illegal and void, we do not think
any ground is presented by the bill justifying the interposition
of a court of equity to enjoin its collection. The illegality of
the tax and the threatened sale of the shares for its payment
constitute of themselves alone no ground for such interposition. There must be some special circumstances attending
a threatened injury of this kind, distinguishing it from a
comnon trespass, and bringing the case under some recognized
heau of equity jurisdiction before the preventive remedy of
injunction can be invoked."
State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, in which is this
(p. 614):
"We do not propose to lay down in these cases any absolute
limitation of the powers of a court of equity in restraining the
collection of illegal taxes; but we may say, that, in addition
to illegality, hardship, or irregularity, the case must be brought
within some of the recognized foundations of equitable jurisdiction, and that mere errors or excess in valuation, or hardship or injustice of the law, or any grievance which can be
remedied by a suit at law, either before or after payment of
taxes, will not justify a court of equity to interpose by injunction to stay collection of a tax."
And in Pittsburg &c. Railway v. Board of Public Works,
supra, in which the rule is thus stated (p. 37):
"The collection of taxes assessed under the authority of a
State is not to be restrained by writ of injunction from a court
of the United States, unless it clearly appears, not only that
the tax is illegal, but that the owner of the property taxed has
no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of law, and
that there are special circumstances bringing the case under
some recognized head of equity jurisdiction."
But it may be said that in the following cases this court
has laid down an apparently different rule in respect to the
taxation of national bank shares: People v. Weaver, 100 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

539; Pelton v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 143; Cummings v.
National Bank, 101 U. S. 153; Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S.
319, and Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322; Lander v.
Mercantile Bank, 186 U. S. 458. The first was a writ of error
to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, and the mode
of attack upon the law having been recognized by that court
as proper, the question was not discussed here. In Cummings
v. National Bank, Pelton v. National Bank being decided on its
authority, the right to an injunction was asserted. The case
came from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio, in which district the bank was
located. In delivering the opinion of the court Mr. Justice Miller said on page 157:
"But the statute of the State expressly declares that suits may
be brought to enjoin the illegal levy of taxes and assessments
or the collection of them. Section 5848 of the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, 1880; vol. 53, Laws of Ohio, 178, sees. 1, 2.. And
though we have repeatedly decided in this court that the
statute of a State cannot control the mode of procedure in
equity cases in Federal courts, nor deprive them of their
separate equity jurisdiction, we have also held that, where a
statute of a State created a new right or provided a new remedy,
the Federal courts will enforce that right either on the common
law or equity side of its docket, as the nature of the new right or
new remedy requires. Van Norden v. Morton, 99 U. S. 378.
Here there can be .no doubt that the remedy by injunction
against an illegal tax, expressly granted by the statute, is to
be enforced, and can only be appropriately enforced on the
equity side of "the court.
"The statute also answers another objection made to the
relief sought in this suit, namely, that equity will not enjoin
the collection of a tax except under some of the well known heads
of equity jurisdiction,among which is not a mere overvaluation,
or the illegality of the tax, or in any case where there is an
adequate remedy at law. The statute of Ohio expressly provides for an injunction against the collection ofoa-tax illegally

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
197 U. S. BREWER, J., The

CHIEF JUSTICE, BROWN, PECKHAM,

113

JJ., dissenting.

assessed, as well as for an action to recover back such tax
when paid, showing clearly an intention to authorize both
remedies in such cases.
"Independently of this statute, however, we are oi opinion
that when a rule or system of valuation is adopted by those
whose duty it is to make the assessment, which is designed to
operate unequally and to violate a fundamental principle of
the Constitution, and when this rule is applied not solely to
one individual, but to a large class of individuals or corporations, that equity may properly interfere to restrain the operation of this unconstitutional exercise of power."
Two reasons are here stated to justify the exception to the
ordinary rule in respect t6 injunctive relief. First, a state
statute, and, second, a design on the part of the state authorities to discriminate. There is no statute of California
making such special provision in reference to injunctions, and
that reason for a departure from the general rule may be put
one side. The other implies an intent on the part of the
legislature or assessing officials to discriminate. It does not
mean simply that there has resulted a discrimination but that
one was intended. It i well known -that in the early days of
the national banking law there was a strong prejudice against
it in different portions of the Union and adverse legislaton
in the way of burdensome taxation was not uncommon, and it
was because of that fact that the court permi Lted the exercise
of the strong powers of equity. That I am right in this and
that there has never been an intent to apply a different rule
to a national bank from that which has been in force in respect
to other property is made clear by the language of Mr. Justice Miller in a subsequent case, National Bank v. Kimball,
103 U. S. 732, 735. Delivering the opinion of the court, he
says:

"An apparent exception to the universality of tle rule is
admitted in People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, Pelton v. National
Bank, 101 U. S. 143, and Cummings v. National Bank, 101
U. S. 153.

It is held in these cases that when the inequality

VOL. CXCV1i-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER, J., The CHIEF JUSTIcE, BROWN, PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting. 197 U. S.

of valuation is the result of a statute of the State designed to
discriminate injuriously against any class of persons or any
species of property, a court of equity will give appropriate
relief; and also where, though the law itself is unobjectionable,
the officers who are appointed to make assessments combine
together and establish a rule or principle of valuation, the necessary result of which is to tax one species of property higher
than others, and higher than the average rate, the court will
also give relief. But the bill before us alleges no such agreement or common action of assessors, and no general rule or
discriminating rate adopted by a single assessor, but relies on
the numerous instances of partial and unequal valuations
which establish no rule on the subject."
This ruling was somewhat like the action of the court in
Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255. That was a case coming
from a state court. Ordinarily when the judgment is reversed
the order is to remand the case for further proceedings not
inconsistent with our opinion, but in view of action theretofore taken by the state court in the case we felt constrained
to direct the very judgment which should be entered.
In Lander v. Mercantile Bank, supra, a decree dismissing the
bill filed by the bank was affirmed. It is true in the opinion
the merits of the bill wer-c discussed, and nothing said about
the right to maintain a Euit in equity. Evidently the matter
passed without considera tion, and not unnaturally so, as the
bill on its merits was diomissed.
In the case before us, whatever may be the effect of the
statute in creating or opening the door to discrimination, no
one can read it and say that there was an intent on the part
of the legislature of California to discriminate injuriously
against national banks. The statute is positive in its language
that national bank shares shall be taxed and assessed as is
other property, and there was beyond doubt an attempt on
the part' of the California legislature to cast only an equal
burden of taxation on such shares. Of course, there ought
not to be imputed to this court an intention to favor national

NATIONAL COTTON OIL CO. v. TEXAS.
197 U. S.

Syllabus.

bank property in the matter of taxation and to lay down a
rule for its benefit which is denied to all'pther property. So
were I wroilg in my construction of the state statute, beyond
any peradventure the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
ought to be affirned and the bank remitted to its legal remedy.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JusBROWN and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concur in this dissent.

TiCE

NATIONAL COTTON OIL COMPANY ,. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS IN AN!) FOR THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TIlE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 37. Argled November 1,2, 1904.-Decided February 27, 1905.

The Anti-Trust Acts of Texas of 1889, 1895 and 1899, are all directed to the
prohibitions of combinations to restrict trade, to in any way limit competition in the production or sale of articles, or to increase or reduce
prices in order to preclude free and unrestricted competition; and, as the
legislature of a State may ordain that competition and not combination
shall be the law of trade, and may prohibit combinations to control
prices, the statutes as they now stand are not in conflict with the Four
teenth Amendment and do not, as against corporations dealing in cotton
oil and combining to regulate the price of cotton seed, work a deprivation
of property without due process of law, or impair theiir liberty of contract.
The idea of monopoly is not now confined to a grant of privileges but is
understood to include a condition produced by the acts of individuals
and the suppression of competition by unification of interest or management or through agreement and concert of action. It is the power to
control prices which makes both the inducement to Inake such combinations and the concern of the law to prohibit them.
The Supreme Court of Texas having construed the act of 1895 as invalid,
so far as it was discriminatory by excepting from its operation combinations of agriculturists and organi:ed laborers and fell within the terms
of Conolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 II. S. 540, and sustained the
act in other respects, and having also held that the act of 1899 although
cumulative did not continue the invalid discriminatory provisions of the

