NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM.

453

Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

without such confinement or imprisonment as may result in
great hardship to that class of individuals who may themselves
have had no intention to violate any law of this country. We
think this statute was intended to secure, not the delivery of
the immigrant, at all hazards, but to require good faith and full
diligence to carry him back to the port from whence he came.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and the cause remanded-to the District Court

with instructions to discharge the petitioner.

NEW ORLEANS GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. DRAINAGE
COMMISSION OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 172.

Argued March 8, 9, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

The drainage of a city in the interest in the public health and welfare is one
of the most important purposes for which the police power can be exercised.
Every reason of public policy requires that grants in the sub-surface of
streets shall be held subject to such reasonable regulation as the public
health and safety may require.
Uncompensated obedience to a regulation enacted for the public safety
under the police power of the State is not a taking of property without
due compensation.
Under the facts of this case, the changing of the location of gas pipes at the
expense of the Gas Company to accommodate a system of drainage,
which has been upheld by the state court as an execution of the police
power of the State, does not amount to a deprivation of property without
due process of law.

THE New Orleans Gas Light and Banking Company was
incorporated in 1835, and was given the exclusive privilege
of vending gas in the city of New Orleans and its faubourgs,
and thq city of La Fayette, to such persons or bodies corporate
as might voluntarily choose to contract for the same, and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1904..
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

was permitted to lay pipes and conduits at its. own expense in
the public ways and streets of New Orleans, having due regard
for the public convenience. In 1845 and 1854 the charter of
the company as to its right to engage in banking was withdrawn, and the right to vend gas and use the streets was
continued to the corporation under the name of the New
Orleans Gas Light Company until April 1, 1875, when its
corporate privileges should end, the company during the continuance of its charter to furnish the Charity Hospital with
necessary gas and fixtures free of charge. By amendments the
contract privilege of the company was extended until April 1,
1895, the exclusive privileges granted by the original charter
not to extend beyond the time fixed in the act of incorporation.
In 1870 another company, under the name of the Crescent
City Gas Light Company, was incorporated, its charter providing that the company, its successors and assigns, should for
fifty years from the expiration of the charter of the New Orleans
Gas Light Company have the sole and exclusive privilege of
making and supplying gas light in the city of New Orleans,
and for that purpose be allowed to lay pipes and conduits in
the streets and alleys of the city where the same may be required, at its own expense, in such manner as to least inconvenience the city and its inhabitants, and the company was
also required to afterwards repair with the least possible delay
the streets it had broken. In 1873 an act of the legislature
fixed the date of the expiration of the exclusive franchise of the
New Orleans Gas Light Company at April, 1875, and the franchise of the Crescent City Gas Light Company was confirmed
from. that date for the period of fifty years. On March 29,
1875, the New Orleans Gas Light Company and the Crescent
City Gas Light Company were consolidated under the name
of the former corporation. This company is the plaintiff in
the action in the state court. By an* act of the legislature,
approved July 9, 1896, the State created a board known as the
Drainage Commission of New Orleans, which board was given
the power to control and execute a plan for the drainage of the

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM.
197 U. S.

455

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

city of New Orleans, and also the power to appropriate property according to the laws of the State, by legal proceedings,
for the purpose of constructing a drainage system. After
adopting a system of drainage, and proceeding with the construction thereof, according to the plans, it was found necessary
to change the location in some places in the streets of the city
of the mains and pipes theretofore laid by the New OrleansGas Light Company. The testimony shows that there was
nothing to indicate that these changes were made in other
than cases of necessity and with as little interference as possible with the property of the gas company. By stipulation between the parties it was agreed that the charges should be paid
by the gas company when it became necessary to accede to
the demands of the Drainage Commission; the gas company
should keep an account thereof, and that its right to recover
for the amount expended by it should not be prejudiced by the
arrangement made, but should be submitted to the courts for
final adjudication. This action was brought to recover the
cost of the changes so made. In the court of original jurisdiction there was a judgment in favor of the Drainage Commission. Upon appeal the Supreme Court of Louisiana reversed
this judgment. Upon rehearing the latter judgment was reversed and a final decree rendered, affirming the judgment of
the lower court, rejecting the claim of the gascompany. 111
Louisiana, 838. A writ of error to this court brings into
review that judgment, the contention being that the judgment
of the state court has impaired the contract rights of the gas
company and has the effect to take its property without compensation, in derogation of rights secured by the Constitution
and the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. Charles F. Buck for plaintiff in error:
The charter of the Gas Light Company is a contract. Gaslight Co. v. Light & Heat Co., 115 U. S. 650. The franchise
includes the right to lay mains as well as to s9el and deliver
gas, and the Gas Light Company has special rights in the

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

197 U. S.

streets of which it cannot be deprived. New Orleans v. Clark,
95 U. S. 644; Moore v. Waterworks Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 382, distinguishing Waterworks Co. v. City of Kansas, 28 Fed. Rep. 921.
This is a taking of property for a public use and not a regulation. Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161; Road Co. v. Tulmuck
County, 31 Oregon, 1; Railroad Co. v. Southern Tel. Co., 46
Georgia, 43; Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 127 Massachusetts, 50; San Mateo County v. So. Pacific Co., 13 Fed. Rep.
733; Electric Light Co. v. Marble City Co., 85 Vermont, 377;
Hudson Tel. Co. v. Jersey City, 49 N. J. L. 303; Trust Co. v.
Railway Co., 53 Fed. Rep. 687; Electric Light Co. v. Clarksburg, 50 L. R. A. 142, 151; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas
Co., 115 U. S. 683; Chicago Gas Co. v. Lake, 130 Illinois, 42;
Indianapolis v. Gas Company, 140 Indiana, 114; Re Sixth
Ave. R. R. Co., 72 N. Y. 330; 2 Dillon Mun. Corp., 3d ed., § 588;
Irwin v. Telegraph Co., 37 La. Ann. 63; Glover v. Powell, 10
N. J. Eq. 211.
The police power whatever it may be is subordinate to the
Constitution. Matter of Jacobs, 95 N. Y. 98; Mugler v. Kansas
City, 123 U. S. 623, does not apply. As to conflict between the
police power and the Constitution, see Mills on Eminent Domain,
§§7, 44; Elliot on Roads and Streets, § 20, p. 897; Cooley
Const. Lim., 3d ed., 544, 572; Russel on the Police Power,'
25, 86; Lewis on Eminent Domain, §§ 35, 56, 153, 602; Freund
on Police Power, §§ 513, 555, 577; Detroit v. Citizens' Street
Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 868; Railroad Tax Cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 755;
Binghampton Bridge Case, 3 Wall. 51; Bridge Proprietors v.
Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116. The right to compensation for
property taken for public use, is not to be denied on the ground
that the expropriation is the exercise of the police power.
Railway Co. v. Railroad Co., 51 La. Ann. 814; Railroad Co. v.
Levee Board, 49 La. Ann. 570; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 335.
The enforced removal and relaying of plaintiff's mains is a
taking of its private property and impairs its contract with
the city. 1 Blackstone, 139; Freund, 545; Elliot, § 202;

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM. 457
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Eaton v. Railroad Co., 51 N. H. 504; Tumpelly v. Green Bay
Co., 13 Wall. 166, 181; Cotting v. Kansas City, 183 U. S. 105;
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 469; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27.
Mr. Omer Viller6 for defendant in error:
This case comes under the same rule that expenses of erecting gates, planking and crossing, and maintaining flagmen,
necessarily resulting from the laying out of a street across a
railroad, are incidental to the exercise of the police powers of
the State, and do not constitute an element of the just compensation to the railroad. Chicago R. R. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 226. And see as to police power, Mugler v. Kansas
City, 123 U. S. 623; Chicago v. Quincy, 27 N. E. Rep. 193;
Water Works Co. v. City of Kansas, 28 Fed. Rep. 921; Railroad Co. v. Wakefield, 103 Massachusetts, 261; Jamaica Bond
Co. v. Brookline, 121 Massachusetts, 5; Gas Co. v. Columbus, 19
L. R. A. 510; Cleveland v. Augusta, 102 Georgia, 233; Clapp v.
Spokane, 53 Fed. Rep. 516; State v. Flower, 49 La. Ann. 1199;
Cincinnati v. Penny, 21 Ohio St. 499; and other cases in the
opinion of the state court.
It is certainly for the common welfare of the people of
New Orleans that the State of Louisiana has created the
Drainage Commission and charged it with the control and
execution of the drainage of New Orleans, and given it the
right in all streets of said city for any of its works. And
whenever the pipes and conduits of the New Orleans Gas
Light Company are in the way of the proper execution of
the drainage plans, it is but just and proper that said company should readjust its pipes and conduits to permit of the
execution of a great work of public utility.
The State gave the company the right to lay its pipes and
conduits in the streets, but never abandoned its superior right
of control over and in and under said streets.
Unless the Gas Light Company can show that it has a right
under the street, superior to the rights of railroads on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

street, it is not entitled to any compensation that railroads
would not be entitled to.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has decided, in the interpretation of its constitution and of its statutes, that the
requirement of the Drainage Commission that the Gas Light
Company shift its mains to meet the exigencies of a public
work, did not constitute a taking or damaging of property
in violation of the articles of its constitution, and that decision is not subject to review by this court in the absence
of a specific point raised in the case that such a requirement
violates the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In the case of the New Orleans Gas Company v. Louisiana
Light Company, 115 U. S. 650, it was held that the complainant, by reason of the franchises granted and agreements made,
as fully set forth in that case, had acquired the exclusive right
to supply gas to the city of New Orleans and its inhabitants
through pipes and mains laid in the streets.
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that, having acquired the franchise and availed itself of the right to locate its
pipes under the streets of the city, it has thereby acquired a
property Yight which cannot be taken from it by a shifting of
some of its mains and pipes from their location to accommodate the drainage system, without compensation for the cost
of such changes. It is not contended that the gas company
has acquire~i such a property right as will prevent the Drainage
Commission, in the exercise of the police power granted to it
by the State, from removing the pipes so as to make room for
its work, but it is 'insisted that this can only be done upon
terms of compensation for the cost of removal. This contention requires an examination of the extent and nature of the
rights conferred in the grant to the gas company. The exclusive privilege which was sustained by this court in the case

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM. 459
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., supra, was
the right to. supply the city and its inhabitants with gas for the
term granted. There was nothing in the grant of "the privilege
which gave the company the right to any particular location
in the streets.; it had the right to use the streets, or such of
them as it might require in the prosecution of its business, but
in the original grant to the New Orleans Gas Light and Banking Company the pipes were to be laid in the public ways and
streets, "having due regard to the public convenience." And
in the grant to the Crescent City Gas Light Company the pipes
were to be "laid in such manner as to produce the least inconvenience to the city or its inhabitants." In the very terms
of the grant there is a recognition that the use of the streets
by the gas company was to be in such manner as to least inconvenience the city in such use thereof. Except that the
privilege was conferred to use the streets in laying the pipes
in some places thereunder, there was nothing in the terms of
the'grant to indicate the intention of the State to give up its
control of the public streets, certainly not 'o far as such power
might be required by proper regulations to control their use
for legitimate purposes connected with the public health and
safety. In the case above cited, in which the exclusive right
to supply gas was sustained, there was a distinct recognition
that the privilege granted was subject to proper regulations in
the interest of the public health, morals and safety. Upon
this subject Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for the court, said
(115 U. S. 671):
"With reference to the contract in this case, it may be said
that it is not, in any legal sense, to the prejudice of the public
health or the public safety. It is none the less a contract because the manufacture and distribution of gas, when not subjected to proper supervision, may possibly work injury to the
public; for the grant of exclusive privileges to -the plaintiff
does not restrict the power of the State, or of the municipal
government of New Orleans acting under authority for that
purpose, to establish and enforce regulations which are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

inconsistent with the essential rights granted by plaintiff's
charter, which may be necessary for the protection of the
public against injury whether arising from the want of due
care in thi conduct of its business, or from any improper use
of the streets in laying gas pipes, or from the failure of the
grantee to furnish gas of the required quality and amount.
The constitutional prohibition upon state laws impairing the
obligation of contracts does not restrict the power of the State
to protect the public health, the public morals, or the public
safety, as the one or the other may be involved in the execution
of such contracts. Rights and privileges arising from contracts with a State are subject to regulations for the protection
of the public health, the public morals, and the public safety,
in the same sense, and to the same extent, as are all contracts
and all property, whether owned by natural persons or corporations."
The drainage of a city in the interest of the public health
and welfare is one of the most important purposes for which
the police power can be exercised. The Drainage Commission,
in carrying out this important work, it has been held by the
Supreme Court of the State, is engaged in the execution of the
police power of the State. State v. Flower, 49 La. Ann. 1199,
1203.
It is admitted that in the exercise of this power there has
been n.o more interference with the property of the gas company than has been necessary to the carrying out of the
drainage plan, There is no showing that the value of the
property of the gas company has been depreciated nor that
it has suffered any deprivation further than the expense which
was rendered necessary by the changing of the location of the
pipes to accommodate the work of the Drainage Commission.
The police power, in so far as its exercise is essential to the
health of the community, it has been held cannot be contracted
away. N. Y. & N. E. Railroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556,
567; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S.746,
751; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, 816. In a large city

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM.
197 U. S.

461

Opinion of the Court.

like New Orleans, situated as it is, and the entrep6t of an
extensive commerce coming from many foreign countries, it
is of the highest importance that the public health shall be
safeguarded by all proper means. It would be unreasonable
to suppose that in the grant to the gas company of the right
to use the streets in the laying of its pipes it was ever intended
to surrender or impair the public right to discharge the duty
of conserving the public health. The gas company did not
acquire any specific location in the streets; it was content with
the general right to use them, and when it located its pipes
it was at the risk that they might be, at some future time,
disturbed, when the State might require for a necessary public
use that changes in location be made.
This right of control seems to be conceded by the learned
counsel for the plaintiff in error, in so far as it relates to the
right to regulate the use of the surface of the streets, and it is
recognized that the users of such surface may be required to
adapt themselves to regulations made in the exercise of the
police power. We see no reason why the same principle should
not apply to the sub-surface of the streets, which, no less than
the surface, is primarily under public control. The need of
occupation of the soil beneath the streets in cities is constantly increasing, for the supply of water and light and the
construction of systems of sewerage and drainage, and every
reason of public policy requires that grants of rights in such
sub-surface shall be held subject to such reasonable regulation
as the public health and safety may require. There is nothing
in the grant to the gas company, even if it could legally be
done, undertaking to limit the right of the State to establish a
system of drainage in the streets. We think whatever right
the gas company acquired was subject in so far as the location
of its pipes was concerned, to such future regulations as might
be required in the interest of the public health and welfare.
These views-8 are amply sustained by the authorities. National Water Works..Co. v. City of Kansas, 28 Fed. Rep. 921,
in which the opinion was delivered by Mr. -Justice Brewer,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

then Circuit Judge; Gas Light & Coke Co. v. Columbus, 50
Ohio St. 65; Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Co. v. Brookline, 121
Massachusetts, 5; In re Deering, 93 N. Y. 361; Chicago, Burlington &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 254. In the latter
case it was held that uncompensated obedience to a regulation
enacted for the public safety under the police power of the
State was not taking property without due compensation. In
our view, that is all there is to this case. The gas company,
by its grant from the city, acquired no exclusive right to the
location of its pipes in the streets, as chosen by it, under a
general grant of authority to use the streets. The city made
no contract that the gas company should not be disturbed in
the location chosen. In the exercise of the police power of
the State, for a purpose highly necessary in the promotion of
the public health, it has become necessary to change the location of the pipes of the gas company so as to accommodatc

them to the new public work. In complying with this requirement at its own expense none of the property of the gas
company has been taken, and the injury sustained is damnum
absque injuria.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana and the same is
Affirmed.

