CARO v. DAVIDSON.
197 V. S.

Syllabus.

they were acquired." A broad declaration, and seems to make
all claims accruing before the receivership non-preferential.
This probably is not intended, and not extending the remark
so far, is not the time of use important if we regard the substance of things? It must not be overlooked that we are
dealing with equitable considerations. What would be said
of an expenditure by the receiver for ties to displace decaying
ones if those furnished by petitioner had not been at hand?
Was it not, at least, competent for a court of equity to have
restored the ties upon the application of the petitioner? It
is said, however, "It is mere speculation if he would have
demanded back the ties." He was not given an opportunity.
But suppose "he would have taken his chance?" Of what
and upon what assurance? Certainly upon the assurance, in
addition to his general equity, that a court of equity would
not deliberately use his property through its officer, the receiver, in the interest of the business of the road, whose affairs
it was administering, and not find in its powers the means
and right to order payment for the property so used.

CARO v. DAVIDSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 196.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF FLORIDA.

Submitted January 23, 1905.-Decided March 13,1905.

Where the record discloses no title, right, privilege or immunity, specially
set up or claimed under the Constitution, or any law of the United States,
which was denied by the decision, nor~any assertion of an infraction of
any provision of the Constitution, and the right of review by this court
is based on the contention that the validity under the Constitution of a
state statute is necessarily drawn in question and sustained, the writ
will be dismissed unless a definite issue as to the validity of such statute
is distinctly deducible from the record and it appears that the judgment
could not have rested on grounds not involving its validity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hilary A. Herbert, Mr. Benjamin Micou, Mr. E. T.
Davis and Mr. Simeon S. Belden for plaintiff in error:
That by a necessary intendment there was drawn into question an act of the general assembly of Florida, approved
May 30, 1901, repugnant to Sec. 10, Art. I of the Constitution of the United States, by reason of its being an ex post
facto law, as applicable to the judgments of the judge. Powell
v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 440, distinguished. See
Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 409; McCullough v. Virginia,
172 U. S. 116; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken L. & I. Co., 1
Wall. 142; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 56.
Mr. William A. Blount and Mr. A. C. Blount, Jr., for defendants in error:
The record fails to show jurisdiction under ยง 709, Rev.
Stat. No question which this court is entitled to review was
presented to or decided by the state court.
The act of 1901 is not to be found adverted to in the record,
and cannot for the purposes of the jurisdiction of this court be
imported into it. No definite issue as to the validity of the
statute is distinctly deducible from the record so as to present
a Federal question. Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S.
640.
If the decision of the state court could have been made
without deciding upon the validity of the statute, this court
has no jurisdiction. McQuade v. Trenton, 172 U. S. 640;
Hammond v. Johnson, 142 U. S. 73.
No decision of the state court in favor of the validity of the
statute is on the record. Dibble v. Bellingham, 163 U. S. 71.
The necessity for the assertion of the claim on the record
and the principles which govern the court in requiring that
the record shall show jurisdiction, are well settled.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error filed their petition in the Circuit Court

CARO v. DAVIDSON.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Escambia County, Florida, in April, 1901, for the vacation
of certain interlocutory and final decrees rendered March 5,
1887; April 4, 1887, and January 17, 1889, in favor of complainants, in a certain cause thereinbefore pending, on the
ground that the said orders and decrees were null and void,
because the judge by whom they were entered was the husband of the sister of one of the complainants, having at the
time living children, the issue of their marriage; it being also
averred that the relationship was not known until February,
1901.
Defendants in error set up by answer two defenses: (1) That
the original cause was carried to the Supreme Court of Florida
and there examined upon its merits, and a decree rendered
affirming the decree below. (2) That the wife of the Circuit
Judge had died ten years prior to the bringing of that suit.
The petition to vacate the decree was denied July 13, 1901,
by the Circuit Court, and its decree to that effect was affirmed
by the Supreme Court, November 17, 1903 (the case having
beepn submitted March 31, 1902), whereupon this writ of error
was allowed, and comes before us on a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction.
The state Supreme Court delivered no opinion in affirming
the decree denying the petition to vacate, and the record discloses no title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or
claimed under the Constitution or any law of the United
States, which was denied by the decision; nor any assertion
of an infraction of the Fourteenth Amendment, or any provision of the Constitution. But it is said that by necessary
intendment the validity of an act of the general assembly of
Florida of May 30, 1901, was drawn in question as repugnant
to the Constitution of the United-States, and its validity sustained. The act referred to provided that section 970 of the
Revised Statutes of Florida was thereby amended so as to
read: "Any and all judgments, decrees and orders heretofore
or hereafter rendered in causes where the disqualifications appear of record in the cause, shall be void, but where the dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Syllabus.

1Q7 U. S.

qualification does not so appear, they shall not be subject to
collateral attack." Session Laws, Florida, 1901, p. 39.
The contention is that the judgment of the Supreme Court
proceeded upon this act, which was invalid, if so applied,
because ex post facto, and that, therefore, this court has jurisdiction, inasmuch as the validity of the act was thus drawn
in question and its validity sustained. Yet no definite issue
as to the validity of that statute was distinctly deducible from
the record, no decision in favor of its validity appeared therefrom, and the judgment might have rested on grounds not
involving its validity.
Whether the Supreme Court of Florida, if it sustained the
decree of the Circuit Court in denying the petition on either
of the grounds set up in defense, committed error cognizable
here, or whether the act referred to was applied as asserted in
contravention of.the Constitution of the United States, we
are not called on to consider, since we do not find that any
Federal question was so raised, on the petition or in the proceedings thereunder, at the proper time and in the proper
way, as to give us jurisdiction under section 709 of the Revised Statutes. Mutual Life Insurance Company v. McGrew,
188 U. S. 291, 307, 308; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S.
433; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S.180.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. STINSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 153. Argued January 25, 26, 1905.-Decided March 13, 1905.

The Government, like an individual, may maintain any appropriatv action
to set aside its grants and recover property of which it has been defrauded; and while laches or limitations do not of themselves constitute a
distinct defense as against the Government, yet the respect due to a patent,
the presumption that all preceding steps were observed before its issue,

