LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

policyholders in States other than the State where the company was created that resort for the enforcement of their
rights must in all cases be had to the courts of the State of the
creation of the company, even though the company did business in such other States, the number of policyholders in the
other-States would seriously fall off.
The service of the summons was, in our judgment, a good
service on the company, and we therefore answer the question
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the affirmative; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the decision

of this case.

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
WARNER,

BARNES AND COMPANY,
UNITED STATES.

LIMITED,

v.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN .DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 149, 466. Argued March 3, 1905.-Decided April 3, 1905.
The order of the President of July 12, 1898, directing the levying of duties
on goods landed in the Philippine Islands, was a regulation for and
during the then existing war with Spain, referred to as definitely as if
it had been named, and was not a power for any other military occasion.
The right to levy duties thereunder on goods brought from the United
States ceased on the termination of the war by the exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace with Spain on April 11, 1899. Dooley v.
United States, 182 U. S. 222.
After the title to the Philippine Islands passed to the United States by the
exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace, there was nothing in the
Philippine insurrection of sufficient gravity to give to the islands the
character of foreign countries within the meaning of a tariff act. Fourteen
Diamond Rings, 183 U. S. 176.
Under the act of Congress of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, ratifying the action
of the President and the authorities of the government of the Philippine

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

197 U. S.

Islands, the ratification is confined to those acts which were in accordance
with the provisions of the order of July 12, 1898, and not to the collection of duties after April 11, 1899, which were within such provisions.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Air. Henry M. Ward, Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Paul
Fullerfor plaintiffs in error in No. 149 and appellant in No. 466:
The facts stated in the answer of the United States which
was demurred to are not admitted by the demurrer and the
facts found by the court are not binding, where such facts are
contrary to facts publicly known, of which this court takes
judicial notice. Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 215; The
Three Friends, 166 U. S.63; Underhillv. Hernandez, 168 U. S.
253.
After the ratification of the treaty of cession the Philippines
ceased to be hostile territory. The possession and sovereignty
of the United States was complete. DeLima v. Bidwell, 180
U. S. 1; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222; Fourteen Diamond Rings, 183 U. S. 176.
The power of the President as Commander in Chief to levy
duties on goods coming into the Philippines ceased with the
ratification of the treaty.
The language of the President's order of July 12, 1898, did
not authorize the collection of duties in the Insular possessions
after the ratification of the treaty. Dooley v. United States,
182 U. S.235.
The situation of affairs in the Philippines is not assimilated
to the condition of the insurrectionary States during the War
of the Rebellion. The territory of those States was held in
possession by an organized hostile and belligerent power,
while the insurrection in Manila never took on the proportions
of a territorial war and the insurgents never became formidable
enough to be recognized as belligerents. The Prize Cases, 2
Black, 673; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S.517; Birkhimer on
Military Government & Martial Law, 53; United States v.
Rice, 4 Wheat. 246, 254; United States v. Heywood, 26 Fed.
Cas. No. 15,336, p. 246.

LINCOLN v . UNIEI) STATES.
197 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

There is a clear distinction between the suppression of a
political revolt by force of arms-which was the situation in
the Philippines, and hostilities with a de facto belligerent
power, recognized as such,-which was the situation during
the Rebellion. The Three Friends, 166 U. S. 1.
The operation of the treaty of peace was not suspended or
superseded by military law on account of the insurrection in
the Philippines. The sovereignty of the United States Government in the Islands was established and the treaty was
effective. The Government was simply preserving order andz
suppressing insurrection in its own territory. Proclamation
of Gen. McArthur, Dec. 20, 1900; War Dept. Report, June 30,
1901; President's Order, December, 1899, pp. 44-52; Report
of Sec. of War, 1899, pp. 6-12.
The act of Congress, July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 692, is not a
ratification of the collection of duties under military order
after ratification of the treaty. The order has been so construed in Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 236.
A renactment by Congress of a former statute already
judicially construed is presumed to conform to and adopt the
judicial construction of the former act. Dorr v. United States,
195 U. S. 138. Any ratification of Congress is inoperative to
divest claimants of their vested right to recover moneys illegally collected of them. De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 199.
By leave of the court Mr. Hilary A. Herbert and Mr. Benjamin Micou filed a brief on behalf of certain claimants in suits
pending in the Court of Claims and whose interests are similar to those of appellants in No. 466.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The situation in the Philippines was not ordinary revolt or
mere insurrection; it was settled and serious rebellion. It was
civil war so far as extent and duration are concerned. For
the distinctions see section 10, Lieber's Instructions for the
Gowrnment of Armies in the Field; The Prize Cases, 2 Black,

OC'TOIBIR

'TERHM, 1901.

Argument for the United States.

197 U. S.

635, 666. It is of no consequence that at one time the warfare
seemed to be dying out. It was soon renewed, and after defeat in many open engagements, the insurrectos systematized
guerilla warfare. Although reports and messages of the
Executive during the war show encouragement and satisfaction at the progress of our arms and the gradual extension
of civil government, it is certain that the Executive, and
Congress as well, before the later authorizing and ratifying
statutes, determined that war existed. A state of war prevailed
and the exercise of the war power was necessary.
The power of an executive government in the field is absolute. It may totally forbid all commercial intercourse, or
restrict it. It may exact military contributions as indemnity
and to defray current expenses. Such charges are devoted
to military needs and civil administration of the country.
The Executive may exact conditions for trading with hostile
territory. Importation under such circumstances is not a
right but a privilege to be exercised solely upon the conditions
imposed. These doctrines apply equally to foreign and civil
wars. In a domestic war the United States exercises belligerent as well as sovereign rights. It is for the commander who
is dealing with the actual, critical situation to determine what
the necessities demand. If the Executive, when engaged in
war, determines a certain measure to be necessary, judicial
conjectures as to reasons and motives are not material. The
Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635; Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73;
Lamar v. Browne, 92 U. S. 187; New Orleans v. Steamship Co.,
20 Wall. 393; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall. 404; 1 Halleck
Int. Law, 527; 2 Halleck Int. Law, 445, 449; Matthews v.
McStea, 91 U. S. 7; 1 Kent's Com. 66; The Reform, 3 Wall. 617;
United States v. Grossmayer, 9 Wall. 72; Rose v. Himely, 4
Cranch. 241.
The Filipino insurgents proclaimed their independence and
proclaimed war formally. They attacked us at Manila, and
wherever they were throughout the region of which Manila
is the center there were "lines of bayonets." Manila was our

LINCOLN v. UNITE)
197 U. S.

STATES.

Argument. for the United States.

military as well as civil headquarters. Beneath its ultimate
firm control and apparent peace, sedition, plotting and the
active propaganwdism of revolt were going on, witli all sorts of
secret corresponlences with the eneiny. Such a place in such
territory, although doinestic and occupied by us, is none the
less hostile so as to justify war measures. Hamilton v. Dilin,
and Lamar v. Browne, ut sup. The logical result of the opposite view is that we could not call a particular place in
belligerent territory hostile unless it were actually occupied
by the enemy. If we did not hold it at all, of course we could
not levy duties there. The claimants fail to realize the distinction between captured territory and hostile territory.
The Dooley case, 182 U. S. 222, which suggests that a
military commander occupying a southern port during the
Civil War could not impose duties upon merchandise arriving
from northern ports, also shows that thb power would extend
as far as the necessities. There were obvious reasons why they
did not extend that far during our Civil War. Congress, as
well as the Executive, was in immediate touch with all the
conditions, was exercising its power and legislating constantly
for the prosecution of the war, and did not need to commit
the conduct of operations wholly to the Executive's instant
knowledge and power of prompt action on the spot. But if
at New Orleans, for example (which bur forces occupied and
administered municipally from 1862 to 1865), there had been
active correspondence between the port and the city and the
Confederate forces outside, with importing and trading and
banking for their benefit among native and foreign sympathizers, could not an. embargo have been placed on all
commerce, and, a fortiori, could not the less rigorous thing
have been done, viz., the laying of a tariff upon all merchandise
arriving by sea from loyal States as well as -abroad? In that
situation the President and Congress did not deem such action
necessary. But here the case was otherwise, and the tariff
and port regulations were considered by the Executive an
essential part of the military necessities. In this way inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

197 U. S.

course was controlled, shipments were scrutinized and consignees known and all sorts of correspondences with the hostile
forces were traced. The war power should not be curtailed
because it avails of ordinary duties; because its strength gives
port control and permits the commander to open a port to the
commerce of the world. It is no answer to say that everything done was valid except the collection of duties on merchandise from, the United States. Revenue and strategical
demands alike may have designated those duties as the most
important. That is for the commander to determine. If the
tariff on American imports must fall in such case, all might go.
We were under obligation to Spain to treat her ships and goods
like our own, and other nations would then certainly have
invoked the most favored nation clause.
Hamilton v. Dillin, supra, determined that similar charges
were valid on three grounds, viz.: that because there was war,
the Executive alone possessed authority; that Congress possessed power to authorize in advance, and power to ratify
afterwards. That case also determined that under such circumstances payments are voluntary; there is no compulsion
to trade. The notion of valid rights of recovery which vested
before the ratifying act of Congress was passed cannot be
sustained. If there were doubt as to the competence of the
war power acting alone, the subsequent approval and ratification by Congress in the Spooner Amendment of March 2, 1901,
and the act of July 1, 1902, must be viewed as fully legalizing
the action of the Executive. The Prize Cases and Hamilton
v. Dillin,supra. Clearly, it is not a case of an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative authority. The maxim is that every
subsequent ratification has a retroactive effect and is equivalent
to a prior mandate. The test always is, does the legislative body
which ratifies possess authority to do the act or confer power to.
do it in the first instance? Marsh v. Fulton Co., 10 Wall. 676;
Norton v. Shelby Co., 118 U. S. 451; Grenada Co. v. Brogden,
112U. S. 261; Brown v. Mayor, 63 N. Y. 239; Mattingly v.
Districtof Columbia, 97 U. S. 687; Thomson v. Lee Co., 3 Wall.

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

327; Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Fleckner v. United States
Bank, 8 Wheat. 338. Here the question is: Did Congress
possess authority after the ratification of the treaty to impose
customs duties on goods entering from the United States?
The answer must be in the affirmative. Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244; "The Second Dooley Case," 183 U. S.
151.
The intervening grant of power by Congress and the final
ratification authorized and approved the President's acts
within the rule. Congress, where it might have accomplished
the result by its legislation, can ratify by legislation what was'
done without legislation. There can be no doubt that on
April 11, 1899, Congress might have imposed and continued
the military tariff as it did by the act of March 8, 1902. Such
legislation by Congress constitutionally authorizes the President, not to legislate, but to continue to act. The ultimate
act of ratification legitimately related back and affected the
situation in precisely the same way. The legislative approval
turned the valid power of the Executive to legislate up to the
date of ratification into the equally valid power of the Executive to continue to execute thereafter in accordance with that
legislation. By the enactments of March, 1901, and March
and July, 1902, Congress accomplished as of the earlier date
what it might have accomplished on the earlier date. It acted
nunc pro tune and ratified with the effect of a previous authority or previous act of its own. The stress of the Civil War
brought a plain determination of this point without dialectics,
as follows: "Whatever view may be taken as to the precise
boundary between the legislative and executive powers in
reference to the question under consideration, there is no
doubt that the concurrence of both affords ample foundation
for any regulations on the subject." Hamilton v. Dillin, ut
sup., 88.
The propositions on which the Government stands are as
follows: When there is an imperative necessity for the exercise
of the war power, it must itself determine reasons, degree of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

197 U. S.

necessity and what particular compulsions will meet the requirements. The courts will not usurp that function.
The De Lima case simply determined that Porto Rico was
domestic territory. The war power was not involved.
The first Dooley case determined that after ratification the
military tariff was invalid because we had title and peaceful
possession and there was no military necessity. The war
power was not involved there, but the door was left open in
case it were.
The Diamond Rings case decided that the Philippines were
domestic territory, notwithstandirig the insurrection, in title
and in possession. Our own tariff was involved, but the war
power was not. involved.
Here the Philippine military tariff is presented, war was
flagrant, military necessities existed, the Executive determined that this provision was demanded and that determination is within the scope of its constitutional authority and will
not be reviewed by the courts. The war power was involved.
Tle Dooley case is a true correlative of the De Lima case,
but the present cases are not the correlative of the Diamond
Rings case, and there is the 'fallacy in the claimant's logic.
If what was done when we were at war and the necessities
were so vital is invalid, and the approval of Congress has no
effect, then we are impotent as a Nation. The constitutional
authorities are acting together and in harmony, yet before
rebellionmay be suppressed and anarchy averted, all details
of revenue and administration must be referred back to Congress on the other side of the globe, in session only a portion
of the time, formal war inust be declared, and every step must
be prescribed and authorized by a statute in advance. The
Constitution was never intended toleave the National power
in -var and other grave emergencies so cramped and bound,
and we do not think it can :be construed to have that result.
The solemn inquiry before the court is this: when the Nation
is struggling with war, is surrounded with difficulties and
perils, will the courts assume to gay that the combined action

LINCOLN, v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opniion of the Court.

of the Executive and legislature went beyond the necessities,
although there was no tyrannical aggression and.no violation
of sacred guaranties? This question, of the scope of the war
power, its competence and independence, once involved the
very existence of the nation, and may do so again.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are suits to recover duties exacted from the plaintiffs
in error and appellants upon merchandise shipped by them
from New York to Manila, and landed at the latter port between April 11, 1899, the date when the ratifications of the
treaty with Spain were exchanged and October 25, 1901. The
duties were levied under an order of the President dated
July 12, 1898. The case of Peabody & Co. was decided on
demurrer to the answer of the United States, which set up that
during the time mentioned there existed an armed insurrection
in the Philippine Islands of such size as to call for military
operations by the United States; that, although Manila was in
our possession, it was held only by force of arms as a part of
hostile territory, and that the President's order was a lawful
exercise of the war power of the United States. The District
Court overruled the demurrer and dismissed the suit. (Not
reported.) The case of Warner, Barnes & Co. was decided
on a finding of facts by the Court of Claims, and that court
also dismissed the petition. (C. Cl. Not yet reported.)
These facts mainly concern the magnitude of the insurrection and need not be stated.
It will be observed that the President's order relied upon
was an order issued during the war with Spain, nine months
before the treaty of peace was made. It was a measure taken
with reference to that war alone, and not with reference to the
insurrection of the native inhabitants of the Philippines, which
did not happen until much later. Aguinaldo declared hostilities on February 4, 1899. The natural view would be that
the order expired by its own ternis yhen the war with Spain

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

was at an end. Th. order directs that "upon the occupation
of any forts and places in the Philippine Islands by the forces
of the United States," the duties shall be levied and collected
"as a military contribution." Of course, this was not a power
in blank for any military occasion which might turn up in the
future. It was a regulation for and during an existing war,
referred to as definitely as if it had been named. See Dooley
v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, 234, 235.
However this may be, we are of opinion that the cases before
us are governed by the decision in Fourteen Diamond Rings,
183 U. S. 176, 180, 181. In that case it was decided that after
the title passed to the United States there was notliing in the
Philippine. insurrection of sufficient gravity to -give to the Islands
the character of foreign countries within the meaning of a tariff
act. That means that there was no such "firm possession"
by an organized hostile power as made Castine a foreign port
in the war of 1812. United States v: Rice, 4 Wheat. 246, 254.
Whatever sway the Philippine government may have had in
Luzon we suppose that probably at any time the United States
could have sent a column of a few thousand. men to any point
on the island, as was stated by the Secretary of War in his
report in 1899, and as the United States was willing that the
Court of Caims should find. In the language of the above
mentioned decision: "If those in insurrection against Spain
continued in insurrection against the United States, the legal
title and possession of the latter remained unaffected."
Apart from the question of the duration of the President's
order,, it plainly was an order intended to deal with imports
from foreign countries only and Philippine ports not in the
actual military control of the United States. But even had
it been intended to have a wider scope we do not perceive any
ground on which it could have been extended to imports from
the United States to Manila, a port which was continuously
in the possession as well as ownership of the United States from
the time of the treaty with Spain. Manila was not like Nashville during the Civil War, a part of a State recognized as

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

belligerent and as having impressed a hostile status upon its
entire territory. Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, 94-96. The
fact that there was an insurrection of natives not recognized
as belligerents in another part of the island, or even just outside
its walls, did not give the President power to impose duties on
imports from a country no longer foreign. See Dooley v.
United States, 182 U. S.222, 234.
We see no sufficient ground for saying that the collection of
these duties has been ratified by Congress. The only act needing mention is that of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, ยง2, 32 Stat. 691,
692. That act ratifies the action of the President "heretofore
taken by virtue of the authority vested in him as Commander in
Chief of the Army and Navy, as set forth in his order of July
twelfth, 1898" etc., together with the subsequent amendments
to that order. "And the actions of the authorities of the
government of the Philippine Islands, taken in accordance
-with the provisions of said order and subsequent amendments,
are hereby approved." Without considering how far the first
part of the section extends, the approval of the action of the
authorities is confined to those which were in accordance with
the provision of the order, which, as we already have intimated,
the collection of these duties was not. See further De Lima
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.1, 199, 200.
Judgment&reversed.

