OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 63. Argued November 2$, 29, 1904.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Mere ignorance of the law standing, alone does not constitute any defense
against its enforcement, and a mistake of law, pure and simple, without
the addition of any circumstances of fraud or misrepresentation constitutes no basis for relief at law or in equity and forms no excuse in favor
of the party asserting that he made the mistake.
The rule of law is that a party taking a benefit of a provision in his favor
under a will is estopped from attacking the validity of the instrument;
and where an heir at law has taken a benefit under the will, acquiesced
in its validity for many years, permitted the legatees and devisees to act
upon such consent and acquiescence, has so changed his position on that
account that he cannot be restored to it, and meanwhile witnesses have
died, this estoppel is not affected because he was at the time ignorant
of this rule of law.

THE plaintiff in error seeks by this writ to review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
(not yet reported), affirming the decree of the Supreme Court
of that District, sitting as a court of probate, admitting the
will of George W. Utermehle to probate as a will of real estate,
by virtue of the jurisdiction conferred upon the court by the
act of Congress of June 8, 1898. 30 Stat. 434. The same will
had been admitted to probate in the District in the year 1889
as a will of personalty (which was all the jurisdiction at that
time possessed by the court), with the concurrence and consent of the plaintiff in error. The facts upon which the case
hinges are in substance the following:
George W. Utermehle, the testator, died in the city of
Washington on the sixteenth day of April, 1889, leaving a
large amount of real and personal property, the real estate
amounting, as is said, to about a million dollars, and the

personalty to between six hundred thousand and a million of

dollars.

He left a will, bearing date December 7, 1887, which

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

appeared on its face to have been duly executed for the conveyance of real estate. The testator left him surviving his
widow, two daughters-Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Norment-and
the plaintiff in error, his grandson, the son of his -deceased son,
as his sole heirs at law and next of kin. The widow was named
executrix of the will, and she propounded the same for probate
April 26, 1889. It was duly admitted to probate on that day,
on the petition of the widow, as executrix, with the written
consent of the daughters and the plaintiff in error. The
executrix gave a bond in the sum of $20,000 for the payment of all just debts and claims against the deceased and for
the payment of the legacies bequeathed by the will, and letters
were issued to her. She duly administered upon the estate,
paid the funeral expenses and other charges, and the legacies
mentioned in the will, including that to the plaintiff in error.
She filed no inventory but made a statement of account on
the fourteenth day of May, 1890. The personal property,
except such as was otherwise disposed of under the will, and
in payment of debts and legacies, she retained for herself, as
sole and absolute owner, in accordance with the terms of the
will. Of this -amount it is said that she thereafter disposed
of a large part in charities. By the will of. George W. Utermehle, he bequeathed to each of his three nieces, residing in
Germany, the sum of three thousand dollars; he devised to
his grandson, the plaihtiff in error, the property known as the
Young Law Building in Washington; he also bequeathed' to
him the interest due or to become due on a note for $750,
secured on a lot in Washington, and also the principal of the
same; he bequeathed to his wife, Sarah Utermehle, all the rest
of his personal property, of every kind, to be taken by her in
lieu of dower, and to be disposed of by her by deed,, will or
otherwise, as she pleased; he devised to her his then present
residence and the property adjoining, being square 765 in the
city of Washington; he then bequeathed all the rest and
residue of his real estate wherever situated, and all the real
estate of which he might die seized and possessed, other than

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

that already devised, to his two daughters, Mamie Norment
and Rosa Taylor, as tenants in common, share and share
alike; he appointed his wife sole executrix of his will and revoked all other wills theretofore made by him; he suggested
that, as he had no debts and his personal estate was to go to
his wife, a very moderate bond should be required of her as
executrix.
After the death of his grandfather the plaintiff was present
at his late residence and heard this will read.
Immediately after the reading of the will he left the house,
but Mrs. Taylor, one of his aunts, as he was leaving, asked
him to come over the next day, which he did. He testified
on this trial that he arrived at the house and went into the
(lining room, and Mrs. Taylor, Mrs. Norment and his grandmother were there. Mrs. Taylor did the talking, and started
the conversation by stating to the plaintiff in error that the
will had virtually cut him off, and that if it had not been for
her and the Doctor (her husband) the plaintiff in error would
not have been left the property called the Young Law Building, but that they had had his grandfather paint it up and
put it into repair, so that when it came into his possession it
would not be any expense to him to put it in condition at the
time. She further said that his grandmother was left all the
personal property, which amounted to almost, if not quite as
much as that which they (his aunts) would receive under
the will, and that when his grandmother died she proposed
to make him right, to make him equal with them by equalizing his share; that his grandmother wanted to know what the
mortgage on his farm was, as she understood that there was
a mortgage; that she wanted to pay it off; that she wanted to
start him off without any debts on him. His grandmother
was sitting there at the time but said nothing. He was asked
what the-mortgage was on his farm. He told them $11,500.
The only remarks made were those between Mrs. Taylor (his
aunt) and himself, and the only statement he made was what
the mortgage on the farm was. He also testified on the trial

UTERMERLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

below that he believed that what was then promised him, as to
what his grandmother would do when she made her will; that
he had no doubt whatever that she would fulfill her promise.
His grandmother told him at that interview she would give
him a check for the mortgage in a few days, and he then went
home. Subsequently aad on the twenty-sixth day of April,
1889, he signed the consent to the probate of the will. He
did it in reliance, as he said, upon the promise above mentioned.
From the time of the probate of his grandfather's Will up

to the time of the death of his grandmother, he did nothing
to attack the will of his grandfather, but relied upon the
promise made by or on the part of his grandmother, the day

after the funeral. After the probate of his grandfather's will
he received from his grandmother, as the executrix, the legacy
spoken of therein, and gave receipt therefor; he also took
possession of the real estate given him by the will, called
Young's Law Building, and received the rents therefor for
nearly two years, and (on March 24, 1891) sold it for $20,000,
and kept the proceeds. The sisters took the real estate devised to them by the will. They commenced an action of
partition and the real estate was partitioned between them,
and each thereafter treated the real estate set off to her under
the partition as her own absolute property. Sonic of it they
conveyed and disposed of so that it passed beyond their control. They assumed and supposed that the real estate given
to them in the will was their own, as the plaintiff in error had
consented to the probate of the. will, and had made no objections whatever since that time to its validity, or questioned
it in any way.
On the thirteenth of March, 1893, the grandmother died,
leaving a will dated July 5, 1889, less than three months after
the promise alleged to have been made by her, or in her behalf,
to the plaintiff in error immediately after the funeral of his
grandfather. The will of the grandmother was admitted to
probate, by the consent of all the parties interested, on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

seventeenth day of March, 1893. The two daughters were
executrices under the will, but, on objection being made by
the plaintiff in error to their receiving commissions, lhey
waived their right to them, and performed the services without pay. By the terms of this will the two aunts and the
plaintiff in error were made to share equally in the estate of
the grandmother, which turned out to amount to something
over $200,'000, the grandmother having, during her lifetime,
as is stated, disposed of a large amount of the personal property bequeathed to her under the, will of her husband, in
charities. When the terms of the will of the grandmother
were read to the plaintiff in error he testified on the trial below
that he then said, "So far as I am concerned I have got the
worst of and I have got .to stand it. I never made but one
.mistake in my lif, and that was when I held still once before,
and now I have ,to stand still."
He received undqr the will of his grandmother $84,256.87,
being the same share as was received by each of his aunts.
He received, under the will of his grandfather and that of his
grandmother a total of between $140,000 and $150,000. After
the death of his grandmother he took no steps showing an intention to contest the will of either, until May 19, 1900, which
was ten years after the settlement of the estate of his grandfather and nearly seven years after the settlement of the estate
of his -grandmother. Oi the date named he addressed two
letters of the same tenor, one to Mrs. Taylor and the other to
Mrs. Norment, in which he states that he had been under a
misapprehension and was ignorant regarding his rights at the
time his grandfather died, and that misrepresentations had
been made to him from those. interested, touching his rights
and interest in his grandfather's estate, and he therefore notifled them* that he denied the validity of the paper writing
alleged to be the last will and testament of his grandfather,
which had been admitted to probate as a will of personal
property, and stated that he contended that the alleged will
had never been operative in connection with the real property,

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and that his claim to the building and ground known as
*Young's Law Building was merely a one-third interest in the
property as tenant in common with the other heirs at law of
his deceased grandfather; he also stated that he held himself
ready to account, upon demand, to his two aunts for the onethird interest to which each was entitled in that real estate,
as two of the heirs at law of his grandfather, in both the
property, and the rents and profits from the same from his
grandfather's .death; that he held himself as ready, upon demand, to make proper settlement with both of his aunts for
the $750 note, -with the accrued interest thereon, which had
been all paid, and was pretended to hive been bequeathed to
him under the will of his grandfather. Plaintiff in error.
testified that he did not receive any answer to either letter,
nor any communication from either of his aunts, and soon
thereafter he instituted a suit in ejectment, and on June 9,
1900, filed a caveat in the Probate Court against the validity
of the will, as a will of personalty. The plaintiff in error there
charged that the will was procured by the fraud, undue in•fluence and duress of Mrs. Taylor and her husband, and that
the testator had no testamentary capacity when the paper
was signed by him. Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Norment answered
this caveat, and at the same time filed a petition asking for
probate of the will of their father, of December 7, 1887, as a
will of real estate, under the act of Congress of June 8, 1898,
above mentioned. To this petition the plaintiff in error made
answer.
Pending proceedings in the Probate Court on this caveat of
the plaintiff in error, and the petition for the probate of the
will as one of real estate, Mrs. Taylor, one of the aunts, died,
January 22, 1901, leaving a will by which she devised all of
her estate and property to her husband, subject to an annuity
to her son, and nominated her husband as executor. This
will was duly admitted to probate on the eighteenth day of
March, 1901, and letters testamentary were issued to Dr. Taylor (the husbanid). Thereupon he filed his petition in these

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S

proceedings, wherein he stated that the property devised and
bequeathed to him by his wife was in fact to be held in trust
by him for the benefit of his son and his children, with the
reservation of certain rights and powers for himself, and he
asked that the parties named by him be made parties to the
'present proceedings in place of Mrs. Taylor, and they were
accordingly made such.
The court then determined that issues should be formulated
between the parties, to be tried in the Probate Court with a
jury, under the act of June 8, '1898, and there were six issues
thug drawn: The first was in regard to the question whether
the plaintiff in error was estopped to deny the validity of his
grandfather's will as a will of personal property; the second,
'whether he was estopped to deny its validity as one disposing
of real property; third, was a question as to the testamentary
capacity of the grandfather; the fourth, whether there was
undue influence; fifth, whether there was fraud in obtaining
the will from the grandfather; and sixth, whether there was
duress.
It was stipulated that the question of the application of.the
statute of limitations, which was raised by the caveat and
petitions, and all other questions, should be reserved for future
was made
determination by the court. Charles H. Utermehle
and all the other parties
plaintiff for the purpose of the trial,
were made defendants On March 17, 1902, a jury was impanneled and the trial commenced. The plaintiff proceeded
to give his testimony, addressed to the question of estoppel
and to an explanation of his delay in asserting his alleged
rights. When the counsel for plaintiff ifi error announced
their testimony on the question of estoppel closed, they were
about, to proceed with their testimony on the other issues, but
counsel for the defendants objected, and asked the court to
direct a verdict against the plaintiff on the issue of estoppel,
and against the plaintiff upon all the other issues. After consideration the court instructed the jury to render a verdict
against the plaintiff on each and all the issues, and a yerdict

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was thus rendered and recorded. Thereupon an order or
decree was rendered affirming the decree of April 26, 1889, admitting the grandfather's will to probate as and for a will of
personalty, and also admitting it now to probate as and for a
will of real estate under the act of Congress of 1898. The
Court of Appeals having affirmed this decree, the case has
come to us by writ of error on the part of plaintiff.
Mr. D. W. Baker and Mr. Wilton J. Lambert for plaintiff
in error:
Devisees cannot invoke the doctrine of estoppel who are
charged with exercising undue influence or fraud in the making of the will, and in making false and fraudulent misrepresentations to prevent the plaintiff in error from investigating the facts surrounding the making of the will, this last
fraud being merely ancillary to the principal fraud charged.
Neblett v. MacFarland,92 U. S. 193.
Plaintiff acted in ignorance of the facts and in ignorance of
his rights and is not estopped from attacking the will after
he ascertained the truth. Fisher v. Boyce, 81 Maryland, 46;
Re Miller, 159 Pa. St. 562; Meddill v. Snyder, 61 Kansas, 15;
Lee v. Templeton, 73 Indiana, 317; Fletcher v. Holmes, 25
Indiana, 469; Andrews v. Lyons, 11 Allen, 350; Brant v. Virginia Coal Co., 93 U. S. 335; Henshaw v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 271;
Bank v. Farwell, 19 U. S. App. 262; Halloranv. Halloran, 137
Illinois, 112; Clinton v. Maddan, 50 Connecticut, 84; Cumberland C. & I. Co. v. Sherman, 20 Maryland, 117; Barbour v.
Moore, 4 App. D. C. 535; Magee v. Welsh, 18 App. D. C. 177.
Where a person claims title to real property the doctrine of
laches can never be invoked where a proceeding is taken
within the statutory period. Pence v. Langdon, 99 U. S. 578.
While a person accepting and holding a beneficial interest
under a will cannot, either in equity or law, assert an independent title in other property against the will, after having received a legacy in ignorance of this rule, he may, upon
being informed of the rule, return the legacy to the execu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argumrntt foi Plaintiff in Error.

197 U. S.

tor and give him notice that he elects not to take it, and the
rule will not apply. Watson v. Watson, 128 Massachusetts,
152; Spread v. Morgan, 11 H. L. 587; Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How.
55; Sparlook v. Brown, 91 Tennessee, 261; Williams v. Williams,
63 Maryland, 371.
It was not necessary for caveator to make any tender except
to offer to account for anything received from the estate, and
he has always been ready to account. He was not compelled
to first make restitution. Bank v. Curran, 72 Connecticut,
349; Peaslee's Will, 25 N. Y. Supp. 940; Probate Judge v. Stone,
44 N. H. 593; Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How. 55; Thayer v. Knote,
59 Kansas, 181; Montgomery v. Pickering, 116 Massachusetts,
227; Bigelow on Fraud, 424; Howard v. Railroad Co., 14 App.
D. C. 297; Lyon v. Allen, 11 App. D. C. 549; Union Pacific v.
Harris, 158 U. S. 326; Girard v. Carr Co., 123 Missouri, 358;
Westlake v. St. Louis, 77 Missouri, 47; O'Donnell v. Clinton,
145 Massachusetts, 461; Smith v. Holyoke, 112 Massachusetts,
517; Mullen v. Old Colony R. R. Co., 127 Massachusetts, 86.
Cases where payment back has been required can be distinguished. Hamblctt v. Hamblett, 6 N. H. 333; Holt v. Rice,
54 N. H. 398; Fisher v. Boyce, 81 Maryland, 46: Madison v.
Lamon, 170 Illinois, 82; Soule's Will, 3 N. Y. Supp. 259; Chipman v. Montgomery, 63 N. Y. 228. The action of caveatees
relieved the caveator from any other action than offering to
account.
Where defendant refuses, on a tender to receive the money,
it is not necessary that the money should be actually produced. Barker v. Parkinhorn,2 Wash. C. C. 144; Hazzard v.
Barnabas, 10 Cush. 67. Nor is a technical tender required in
a court of equity. Parkinton v. Turvis, 128 Indiana, 186;
Shuce v. Shuee, 100 Indiana, 477. See also Wright v. Young,
70 Am. Dec. 453; Hazzard v. Loring, 10 Cush. 67; Dorsey v.
Barbee, 12 Am. Dec. 296. The law does. not require a useless
act. McDonald v. Woll, 40 Mo. App. 308; Bank v. Hagner,
1 Pet. 467; Chaney v. Libby, 134 U. S. 81; Moore v. Crawjord,
130 U. S. 142.

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

As to declarations of devisor and their admissibility, see
Moore v. McDonald, 68 Maryland, 321; Griffith v. Diffenderfer, 50 Maryland, 466; Re Goldthrop, 94 Iowa, 336; Harp v.
Parr, 16 Illinois, 470; Whitney v. Wheeler, 116 Massachusetts,
490; Taylor v. Pegram, 151 Illinois, 106; Hammond v. Dyke,
42 Minnesota, 272.
Mr. A. S. Worthington, with whom Mr. T. Percy Woodward was on the brief, for defendants in error:
The caveator is to be charged not only with what he actually
knew in regard to the physical and mental condition of his
grandfather and the alleged undue influence, coercion, misrepresentation and fraud, but with the knowledge he could
have acquired by the use of reasonable diligence-especially
as to matters concerning which what he did know would have
led a man of ordinary prudence to make further inquiry.
Upton v. Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 55; Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S.

55, 62; Wollensak v. Reiher, 115 U. S. 99, and cases cited.
When laches is in issue the plaintiff is chargeable with such
knowledge as he might have obtained upon inquiry, provided
the facts already known by him were such as. to put upon a
man of ordinary intelligence the duty of inquiry. Johnston
v. StandardMining Co., 148 U. S. 360; Johnson v. West India

Transit Co., 156 U. S. 618; McLean v. Clapp, 141 U. S. 429.
Silence alone of the adverse party will not excuse the plaintiff's laches. Wood v. Carpenter, J101 U. S. 135, 143; Felix
v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317, 331.
Under the circuinstances of this case the mere lapse of time
has raised. an insurmountable obstacle to an attack'by the
caveator upon his grandfather's will. Hammond v. Hopkins,
143 U. S. 224, 274; Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368; Simmons
v. Burlington R. 'R. Co., 159 U. S. 291; 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur.
§ 965; Fulton v. Moore,'25 Pa. St. 468; Bradords v. Kents, 43

Pa. St. 474, 483; Baxter v. Bowyer, 19 Ohio St. 490; Wilson v.
Wilson, 145 Indiana, 662; Drake v. Wild, 70 Vermont, 52;
Hovey v. Hovey, 61 N. H. 599; Well's Estate, 63 Vermont, 116.

VOL, cxcvii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

197 U. S.

This case is governed by the law relating to equitable estoppel, not by the practice or procedure of courts of equity
relating to "election;" and ignorance of the law of equitable
estoppel is no excuse.
One who takes a benefit under a will is precluded-from
assailing the instrument as invalid. Herbert v. Wren, 7 Cranch,
370; Fisher v. Boyce, 81 Maryland, 46, 52; Hyde v. Baldw'n, 17
Pick. 308; Smith v. Smith, 14 Gray, 532; Fry v. Morrison, 159
Illinois, 244; Drake v. Wild, 70 Vermont, 52; Williams v.
Whittell, 69 App. Div. N. Y. 340, 348; Bronsan v. Watkins,
96 Georgia, 54; Van Duyne v. Van Duyne, 14 N. J. Eq. 49.
Madison v. Larmon, 170 Illinois, 65, 82. See also Cunningham's Estate, 137 Pa. St. 621; Lee v. Tower, 124 N. Y. 370.
As to the effect of the general law of estoppel on one who
has accepted benefits under the instrument attacked, see Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 579; Kirk v. Hamilton, 102 U. S.
68; Ferguson v. Landram, 5 Bush, 230; Van Hook v. Whitlock,
26 Wend. 42; Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415, 421; Davis v.
Waeelee, 156 U. S. 680, 691; Mex. Nat. Ry. Co. v. Davidson,
157 U. S. 201; Michels v. Olmstead, 157 U. S. 198; Neblett v.
Macfarland, 92 U. S. 101, distinguished. See 2 Pomeroy Eq.
Jur. § 802.
E2ven if there was fraud the estoppel applies. The doctrine
of election relied on by caveator does not apply. Bank v.
Morgan, 117 U. S. 96, 112; O'Donnell v. Clinton, 145 Massachusetts, 462; 11 Am. & Eng. Ency., 2(d ed., 431, and eases
cited in note. As to distinction between election and equitable
estoppel see Watson v. Watson, 128 Massachusetts, 152; Spread
v. Morgan, 11 H. L. 587; Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13, 43; Thompson v. Howard, 31 Michigan, 309; Swith v. Gilmore, 7 App.
D. C. 192.
Ignorance of law did not relieve caveator from the equitable
estoppel resulting from his acts. Hunt v. Rousmaniere, 1 Pet.
1; Bank v. Daniel, 12 Pet. 32, 55; 3 Rose's Notes, 702; Wheeler
v. Smith, 9 How. 55, 82; United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395;
Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 13 Wall. 517, 524; Hunt v. Rousmaniere,

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

8 Wheat. 174; Lamborn v. Commissioners, 97 U. S. 181; Snell
v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85, 92; United States v. Ames, 99
U. S. 35; Laver v. Dennett, 109 U. S. 90; Griswold v. Hazard,
141 U. S. 260, 284; Allen v. Galloway, 30 Fed. Rep. 466; Light
v. Light, 21 Pa. St. 407, 412; Rankin v. Mortimere, 7 Watts,
372; Cox v. Rogers, 77 Pa. St. 160; Storrs v. Barker, 6 Johns.
Ch. 166; Whitwell v. Winslow, 134 Massachusetts, 343. See
also review of authorities on effect of mistake in law in 55
Am. St. Rep. 494.
Before one who has received a legacy or taken any other
benefit under a will can assail the will he must return or tender
back that which he has received, as a condition precedent to
the institution of any proceedings assailing the will. In this
case nothing received by caveator has been returned to anybody, and no tender or offer of any kind was made to the
executrix, or other successor, under the will of George A. .Utermehle. 1 Bigelow on Fraud, 420; Talty v. Trust Co., 93 U. S.
321; Barbour v. Hickey, 2 App. D. C. 207; 11 Am. & Eng.
Ency., 2d ed., 98; Braham v. Burchell, 3 Addams Ec. R. 243.;
Hamblett v. Hamblett, 6 N. H. 333; Chipman v. Montgomery,
63 N. Y. 223, 234; Re Pcaslee, 73 Hun, 113; Miller's Estate,
159 Pa. St. 562, 574; S. C., 166 Pa. St. 97; Brown v. Appleman, 83 Mo. App. 29; Balue v. Taylor, 136 Indiana, 368; 1
Daniel's Ch. P1., 6th ed., 385. Cases relied on by caveator
can be, distinguished. As to time when tender should be
made see Howard v. Railroad Co., .14 App. D. C. 297; Lyons
v. A'len, 11 App. D. C. 543; Smith v. Holyole, 112 Massachusetts, 517; Stone v. Cook, 78 S. W. Rep. 80. The judgment is
right on the evidence even if rules of estoppel did not
apply.
No evidence was admitted improperly which influenced the
jury and no new trial should be granted. Packet Co. v.
Clough, 20 Wall. 528; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255;
United States v. Niverson, 1 Mackey, 152. Testimony as to
declarations of testator was properly excluded. .Throkmorton v. Holt, 180 U. S. 552.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

It is true that the plaintiff in error has received out of the
estates of his grandfather and grandmother only between the
sum of $140,000 and $150,000, while an equal division of the
estate of his grandfather, between himself and his aunts,
would have given him a much larger sum. What was the
reason, if any, for this discrimination, the record does not
show.
When the will of his grandfather was read the plaintiff in
error was perfectly aware of its contents. He was a young
man, nearly twenty-four years of age, married, and there is
no proof that he was not of ordinary intelligence and capacity.
There is no pretense in the evidence that there was any fraud
or misrepresentation connected with obtaining his consent to
the probate of the will, without opposition or contest on his
part. By his own statement he understood distinctly from
one of his aunts, after the reading of the will, that it substantially cut him off; that he would receive under the will a
devise of the Young Law Building, worth about $20,000, and
a bequest of the note of $750 and accrued interest, amounting
to not quite $3,000, and that that was all that was given him
under the will. He knew it when the will was read. There is
not a particle of evidence that he did not know that, if there
had been fraud or undue influence or duress in obtaining the
alleged will from his grandfather, or if the latter was without
testamentary capacity, such will would be void. -The trial
court, indeed, observed that he admitted he knew what his
legal rights were at the time of the death of his 'grandfather,
if there were no will. He was ignorant only of any evidence
on which to base a contest against the proof of the will. He
says he did not know at .that time that fraud or undue influence or duress had been exercised, in order to obtain the
will, nor did he know that his grandfather lacked testamentary
capacity to execute a will, but there is no evidence whatever

UTERMEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U.S.

53

Opinion of the Court.

that any means were used or representation made to prevent
him from ascertaining what the facts really were. The reason
for his not contesting was, as he said, his reliance on the
promise alleged to have been made by or on behalf of.his
grandmother to make him equal lby her own will. On account of this promise he did not contest the will. By reason
of his consent, his aunts, the other heirs at law of his grandfather, proceeded to make partition of the real estate given
to them by the will, and to use, convey and dispose of it as if
it were absolutely their own property. lis grandmother received the personal property bequeathed to her by the will
and disposed of large amounts of it -prior to her death by gifts
to charity and otherwise. It would be impossible to place
the other heirs in the same position that they were in at the
time of the death of the grandfather. The two aunts, if that
will had not been proved, would have receivedtheir share of
the personalty instead of almost the whole of it going to the
mother. Under the will, however, the mother took the personalty and spent or disposed of large portions of it, so that
she died possessed of only about $200,000, and the two aunts
and the plaintiff in error have received an equal share of that
sum. The aunts would have received a much larger share
of the personalty had it not been for the will of their father.
As is stated by the Court of Appeals in the opinion delivered in this case:
"It is impossible to tell from the record before us whether
they (the aunts of plaintiff in errdr) fared any better with the
will than they would have fared without it; but it is very evident that by the bequest of the entire'personalty by the will
to their mother, they lost a valuable interest to which they
cannot now be restored. It is'impossible to restore the original situation, and the attempt to do so would be to wantonly
question titles that have long since accrued, including the very
title which the caveator has himself disposed of to the Young
Law Building."
Of the witnesses to the grandfather's will, two are dead

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

and the third paralyzed. From the date of the probate
of the grandfather's will in April, 1889, down to nineteenth
of May, 1900, the plaintiff in error took no steps towards a
contest. On that date he wrote the letters to his aunts,
above referred to; and therein he says that misrepresentations were made to him as to his rights and interest in the
estate. We find a total absence of all. proof as to any such
misrepresentations, either as to his rights or his interest in
the estate of his grandfather. The trial court also found
that the plaintiff in error had not exhibited even reasonable
diligence to learn any facts as to the w.ill.,of his grandfather,
and that his alleged ignorance of the, law, was the only excuse which had the semblance of sufficiency.
We have, therefore, his consent given iii April, 1889, to the
probate of the will of his krandfather; his taking the legacy
provided for under that will; his taking possessibn-of the real
estate devised to him by that will; his receipt of its rents and
profits, and his subsequent sale th6reof for $20,00%Q and the
retention of that sum for his own purposes; his consent to the
probate of his grandmother's will, although it clearly does not
fulfill the promise he alleges was made on her behalf after the
death and funeral of his grandfather; no movement is made on
his part or sign of disconteiit given for about seven years
thereaf ter, and then he writes letters and files his caveat and
proceeds, as d1ready stated. We have the total lack of diligence in the attempt even to ascertain facts. After his grandmother's death he says that he was still ignorant of the facts
which he alleges he has since discovered of the existence of
fraud in obtaining the wilf from his grandfather, and of the
latter's lack of testamentary capacity, and the existence of
(uress and undue influence under which the will was obtained;
and lie also av.rs that he was ignorant of the Jaw at the time
that lie co rsented to the probate of his grandfather's will that
he could not take a devise or bequest under fhat will, and at
the same time seek to prevent its probate or to set it aside as
an invalid ingtrument. The trial court found that right after

UTERMEHLE v. NORIMENT.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the death of his grandmother he had the advice of counsel,
and if he had been ignorant of any rights he would have been
informed of the same.
The plaintiff in error asserts that he gave consent to the
probate of his grandfather's will because of the promise of his
grandmother to rectify by her will the injustice resulting from
the will of his grandfather, and when he found that the promise
was broken, on reading the will of his grandmother after her
decease, he then waited seven years before proceeding to attack
the will of his grandfather, admitted to probate in 1889. The
Court of Appeals doubted the existence of the promise, and
said it was probably only a promise that he should share
equally in his grandmother's estate, which his grandmother
fully performed. He says that after the death of his grandmother he was very ill for six weeks, and that for two years
he was not in god health, and that he remained ignorant of
the fraud and undue influence and duress and mental incapacity of his grandfather until a short time before the filing
of the caveat or the writing of the letters. He does not contend that if these facts existed, he did not know that, if proved,
they would avoid the will.
He insists, however, that the law pertaining to the taking
of a legacy or devise under a will, which prevents the assertion
of the invalidity of the same will, ought not to bind him, because he was ignorant that such was the law; in other words,
.the law should not cover his case because he was ign(rant that
it was the law.
We know of no case where mere ignorance of the law, standing alone, constitutes any excuse or defense against its enforcement. It would be impossible to administer the law if
ignorance of its provisions were a defense thereto. There are
cases, undoubtedly, where ignorance of the law, united with
fraudulent conduct on the part of others, or mistakes of fact
relating thereto, will be regarded as a defense, but there must
be some element, other than a mere mistake of law, which will
afford an excuse. In addition there ought to be no negligence

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

in attempting to discover* the facts. The ignorance of the
plaintiff in error as to his alleged rights, it would seem, was an
ignorance of the existence of alleged facts regarding the procurement of the will of his grandfather, but he does not pretend
that, had he known of their existence, he was ignorant of their
effect as a ground for refusing probate of the alleged will. The
ignorance of evidence to substantiate what he knew were his
rights is a very different thing from ignorance of the rights
themselves, as is stated so clearly by the Court of Appeals; and
so it appears in this case that the only obstacle to the enforcement of the rule of estoppel rests in the alleged ignorance of
the plaintiff in error that such a rule existed. Although his action in consenting to the probate of the will of his' grandfather
was not the result of fraud or misrepresentation, and the other
parties to this litigation cannot be placed back in the pos'tion
they occupied when the will was admitted to probate, and this
condition is the result of the action of the plaintiff in error in
consenting to the probate of the will, yet he now contends,
notwithstanding all this, that he must be permitted, after the
lapse of eleven years, to attempt to defeat the will of his grandfather because he did not know the law applicable to the case
in hand. This is a totally inadmissible proposition.
It has been held from the earliest days, in both the Federal
and state courts, that a mistake of law, pure and simple, without the addition of any circumstances of fraud or misrepresentation, constitutes no basis for relief at law or in equity, and
forms no excuse in favor of the party asserting that he made
such mistake. Hunt v. Rousmaniere's Adm., 1 Pet. 1, 15;
Banc of the United States v. Daniel, 12 Pet. 32, 55; United
States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 379, 409; Lamborn v. County Commissioners, 97 U. S. 181, 185; Snell v. Insurance Co.,. 98 U. S.

85, 90, 92; Allen v. Galloway, 30 Fed. Rep. 466, where Hlammond, J., in reviewing the decisions of this court, says:" Whatever rule may prevail elsewhere, there can be, in the equity
courts'of the United States, no relief from a mistake of law."
Drake v. Wild, 70 Vermont, 52, 59; inthat case the court said

UTERMEHLE 9. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(p. 59): "That ignorance of the law does not excuse a wrong
done or a right withheld: That relief from liabilities under the
law, arising from a known state of facts, will be denied. But
to these general rules there are exceptions, as where there is
a mistake of law caused by fraud, imposition or misrepresentation. We think it will be found that in most of the cases cited
in these notes, and in Pomeroy, the party. seeking relief was
led into error by the action of the other party to a transaction,
as in contracts and releases." Light v. Light, 21 Pa. St. 407,
412; Storrs v. Barker, 6 Johns. Ch. 166; Whitwell v. Winslow,
.134 Massachusetts, 343, 345; Alabama &c. Railway v. Jones,
73 Mississippi, 110; S. C., 55 Am. St. Rep. 488, note.
Exceptional cases where relief has been given have been,
as stated, where there was fraud or imposition upon the individual by the person seeking to avail himself of the contract
of the other party. In this case there was, as we have said,
neither fraud nor imposition, nor misrepresentation; plaintiff
in error was not advised that, although he took under the will,
he could attack it. It is a simple, bald case of an alleged
mistake or misapprehension, on the part of plaintiff, of what
the law-was under certain circumstances, with no representation or persuasion on the part of others to cause him to act
upon such mistaken assumption.
As to what is the law relating to a party taking the benefit
of a 'provision in his favor under a will, there is really no
foundation to dispute the proposition that he thereby is precluded from at the same time attacking the validity of the
very instrument under which he received the benefit.
In Hyde v. Baldwin, 17 Pick. 303, 308, it was held that one
who accepted the beneficial interest under a will was thereby
barred from setting up any claim which would defeat the full
operation of the will. Drake v. Wild, 70 Vermont, 52, holds
the same doctrine. In that case a party was held to be estopped from asserting her title to a trust fund disposed of by
the will, because she had accepted the provisions of the will
in her own favor. In Bronsan v. Watkins, 96 Georgia, 54, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

was held that one who took an estate under a will was thereby
estopped from at the same time denying its validity as a will,
or from questioning the jurisdiction of the court admitting it
to probate, or the regularity of the probate proceedings. In
Smith v. Smith, 14 Gray, 532, it was held that the acceptance
of a devise estops the devisee to set up a title in opposition to
the will, at law as well as in equity. In Fry v. Morrison, 159
Illinois, 244, it was held that one who took a beneficial interest
under a will was thereby estopped to set up any right or claim
of his own, though otherwise well founded, which would bar
or defeat the effect of any part of the will. And in Madison
v. Larmon, 170 Illinois, 65, 82, it was again held that one who
takes under a will cannot contest it as an heir at law of the
devised property. So, in Fisher v. Boyce, 81 Maryland, 46,
53, the court said: "It is a maxim in a court of equity not to
permit the same person to hold under and against a will.
It is equally appropriate to the jurisdiction and practice of courts of law. If the appellees claim under the will of
their father, they must give it effect as far as they can, and
they will then be estopped from denying its validity and
genuineness. Waters' Appeal, 35 Pa. St. 523; Thrower v.
Wood, 53 Georgia, 458."
When in addition to the fact that he took a benefit under
the will, a party has acquiesced in its validity for many years,
and the opposing party in interest has acted upon such consent and acquiescence, and has so changed his position on that
account that he cannot be restored to it, and where witnesses
have in the meantime died, the reason for the rule upon which
an estoppel is founded is thereby greatly strengthened.
Two cases, among others, were cited by counsel for plaintiff
in error, in- the court below, andlare referred to in the opinion
of the Court of Appeals, and they are also cited here for the
purpose of showing his right to maintain these proceedings
to set aside the will of his grandfather: They are: Spread v.
Morgan, 11 11. L..Cases, 587, decided in 1864; Watson v. Watsot, 128 MA'ssachusetts, 152, decided in 1878.

UTERIEHLE v. NORMENT.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the English case it was held that one remaining in possession of two estates, under titles not consistent with each
other, thereby afforded no decisive proof of an election under
which title to take.' It was there held that the rule was, "that
if a party being bound to elect between two properties, not
being called upon so to elect, continues in the receipt of the
rents and profits of bQth, such receipt affording no proof of
preference, cannot be an election to take the one, and reject
the other."
We think the case has no application to the one at bar, and
is well distinguished in the opinion ofthe Court of Appeals
in this .case.
In Watson v. Watson, supra, the general doctrine that any"
person taking a beneficial interest under a will, thereby confirmed it and could not set up any right or claim of his own,
which would defeat or in any way prevent the full operation
of every part of the will, was recognized and affirmed, but it
was said (page 155):
"An election made in ignorance of material facts is, of
course, not binding, when no other person's rights have been
affected thereby. So, if a person, though knowing the facts,
has. acted in misapprehension of his legal rights, and in ignorance of his obligation to make an election, no intention to
elect, and consequently no election, is to be presumed."
Regarding the legatee who took a legacy under the will,
the court continued (at p. 157) as follows:
"But as to Edward the case stands differently. Immediately after being informed of the rule of law, little more than
a year after the probate of the will, and before the executor
had settled any account in the Probate Court, or the position

of any other person had been changed, he returned his legacy to
the executor, and gave him notice that he elected not to take
it. He cannot therefore be held to have madc such an election
as should deprive him of the right under his independent title
to partition of the whole estate, not excepting the parcel
claimed by respondent."'

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

In this case the position of other parties to this litigation
has most materially changed, as-has already been shown (the
particulars of which need not be repeated), while the plaintiff
in error has been also guilty of extreme negligence even in
attempting to discover what he alleges are facts. We are
satisfied that the plaintiff in error is estopped from now contesting the will, and that great injustice would result from the
overturning of the principle adjudged in so many cases.
We are of opinion the case has been rightly decided, and
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is
Affirmed.

KEHRER v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 152.

Argued January 24, 25, 1905.-Decided February 27, 1905.

As a tax upon the seller of goods is a tax upon the goods themselves, and a
tax upon goods sold in one State delivered to a common carrier and consigned to the purchaser in another State is an illegal interference with
interstate commerce, a State cannot impose a privilege tax on agents of
packing houses as to meats shipped to him from another State merely for
distribution to purchasers from his principal; but where the Supreme
Court of the State has held that the tax is void as to interstate shipments
and applies only to the domestic business of -the agent in the ordinary
c6urse of trade, and all other such agents, whether of domestic or foreign
packing houses, are subject to the tax, that construction will be accepted
by this court as in reality a part of the statute itself, and the tax is within
the power of the State and is not as to his domestic business an interference with interstate commerce even though all of the goods sold by
an agent may be shipped to him from another State.
Nor is such a tax void because it is laid upon the agents themselves and
cannot be apportioned between the interstate and the domestic business
carried on by the same person.
While such a tax mnight not apply to an agent whose domestic business
was purely nominal and strictly incidental t6 his interstate business,
it does apply to one whose domestic business is a definite, although a
minor, part of his business in the State as the application of the tax
does not depend on the greater or less magnitude of the business.

