OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
,'A

Syllabus.

197 U. 8.

By section 716 of the Revised Statutes, this court and the
Circuit and District Courts "have power to issue all writs not
specially provided for by statute, which may be necessary for
the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable
to the usages and principles of law."
By section 688, prohibition may issue "in the District
Courts, when proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction," but there is no similar provision in respect of
other courts. And it has been repeatedly held, as to the Circuit
Courts, that they have no power under section 716 to issue
writs of prohibition and mandamus, except when necessary
in the exercise of their existing jurisdiction. Bath County v.
Almy, 13 Wall. 244, 248; McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598,
601.
This is equally true of this court, that is to say, that in cases
over which we possess neither original nor appellate jurisdiction we cannot grant prohibition or mandamus or certiorari
as ancillary thereto.
Rule discharged;petition denied.

MATTER OF HEFF.
ORIGINAL.
No. 14. Argued January 9, 10, 1905.-Decided April 10, 90i5.

The recognized relation between the Government and the Indians is that
of a superior and an inferior, whereby the latter is placed under the care
of the former. The Government, however, is under no constitutional
obligation to continue the relationship of guardian and ward and may,
at any time and in the manner that Congress shall determine, abandon
the guardianship and leave the ward to assume and be subject to all the
privileges and burdens of one sui juris.
In construing a statute affecting the relationship of the Government and
the Indians it is not within the power of the courts to overrule the judg-

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ment of Congress
W',ile there may be a presumption that no radical
change of policy is intended, and courts may insist that A supposed
purpose of Congress to change be made clear by its legislation, when
that purpose is made clear the question is at an end.
Under the act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, ,n Indian who has received
an allotment and patent for land is no longer a ward of the Government
but a citizen of the United States and of the State in which he resides,
and, as such, is not within the reach of Indian police regulations on the
part of Congress, and this emancipation from Federal control cannot be
set aside without the consent of the Indian or the State, nor is it affected
by the provisions in the act subjecting the land allotted to conditions
against alienation and encumbrance, and guaranteeing him an interest
in tribal or other property.
In the United States there is a dual system of government, National and
state, each of which is supreme within its oWn domain and it is one of
the chief functions of this court to preserve the balance between them.
The general police power is reserved to the States subject to the limitation
that it may not trespass on the rights arid powers vested in the National
Government.
The regulation of the sale of intoxicating liquors is within the power of the
State and the license exacted by the National Government is solely for
revenue and is not an attempted exercise of the police power.
The act of January 30, 1897, 29 Stat. 506, prohibiting sales of liquors to
Indians, is a police regulation and does not apply to an allottee Indian
who has become a citizen under the act of February 8, 1887.

ON October 15, 1904, petitioner was convicted in the District Court of the United States, District of Kansas, under an
indictment charging that he did "unlawfully sell, give away
and dispose of certain malt, spirituous and vinous liquors, at
the town of Horton, in the county of'Brown, in the State and
District of Kansas, to John Butler, to wit, two quarts of beer,
more or less, and he, the said John Butler, being then and there
an Indian, a member of the Kickapoo tribe of Indians and a
ward of the Government, under the charge of 0. C. Edwards,
an Indian superintendent, Contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, and against the peace and
dignity of the United States of America." Upon such conviction he was sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail of
Shawnee County, Kansas, for a priod of four months, and to
pay a fine in the sum of two hundred (lollar's ia(1 the costs of
the prosecution. The Court of Appeals of tho' Eighth Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

having decided the question involved, Farrellv. United States,
110 Fed. Rep. 942, a(lversely to his contention, he presented
this application for a writ of habeas corpus directly to this
court.
The act of Congress, January 30, 1897, 29 Stat. 506, provides:
"That any person who shall sell, give away, dispose of,
exchange, or barter any malt, spirituous, or vinous liquor,
including beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or other intoxicating liquor of any kind whatsoever, or any -essence, extract,
bitters, preparation, compound, composition, or any article
whatsoever, under any name, label, or brand, which produces
intoxication, to any Indian-to whom allotment of land has been
made while the title to the same shall be held in trust by the
Government, or to any Indian a ward of the Government under
charge of-any Indian superintendent or agent, or any Indian,
including mixed bloods, over whom the Government, through
'its departments, exercises guardianship, . . . shall be
1punished by imprisonment for not less than sixty days, .and
by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars for the first
offense and not less than two hundred dollars for each offense
thereafter."
The act of Cqngress, February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, is entitled "An act t o provide for the allotment of lands in severalty
t6 Indians on the various reservations, and to extend the protection of the laws of the United States and the Territories
over the IndianS, and for other purposes.". Section 1 of that
act provides:
"That in all cases where any tribe or band of Indians has
been, or shall hereafter be, located upon any reservation
created for their use, either by treaty stipulation or by virtue
of an act of Congress or executive order setting apart the same
for their use, the President of the United States be, and he
hereby is, authorized, whenever in his opinion any reservation
or any part, thereof of such, Indians is advantageous for agricuitural and grazing purposes, to cause said reservation, or
any part thereof, to be surveyed, or resurveyed if necessary,

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and to allot the lands in said reservation in severalty to any
Indian located thereon in quantities as follows:
"SEc. 4. That where any Indian not residing upon a reservation, or for whose tribe no reservation has been provided by
treaty, act of Congress, or executive order, shall make settlement upon any surveyed or unsurveyed lands of the United
States not otherwise appropriated, he or she shall be entitled,
upon application to the local land office for the district in
which the lands are located, to have the same allotted to him
or her, and to his or her children, in quantities and manner as
provided in this act for Indians residing upon reservations;
and when such settlement is made upon unsurveyed lands, uhe
grant to such Indians shall be adjusted upon the survey of the
lands so as to conform thereto; and patents shall be issued to
them for such lands in the manner and with the restrictions
as herein provided..

.

.

Section 5 reads:
"That upon the approval of the allotments provided for in
this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause patents
to issue therefor in the name of the allottees, which patents
shall be of the legal effect, and declare that the United States
does and will hold the land thus allotted, for the period of
twenty-five years, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the
Indian to whom such allotment shall have been made, or, in
case of his decease, of his heirs according to the laws of the
State or Territory where such land is located, and that at
the expiration of said period the United States will convey the
same by patent to said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee,
discharged of said trust and free of all charge or incumbrance
whatsoever; Provided, That the President of the United States
may in any case in his discretion extend the period. And if
any conveyance shall be made of the lands set apart and allotted
as herein provided, or any contract made touching the same,
before the expiration of the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract shall be absolutely null and void. . .
Section 6 is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

197 U. S.

"That upon the completion of said allotments and the patenting of the lands to said allottees, each and every member
of the respective bands or tribes of Indians to whom allotments have been made shall have the benefit of and be
subject to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or
Territory in which they may reside; and no Territory shall
pass or enforce any law denying any such Indian within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the law. And every Indian
born within, the territorial limits of the United States to whom
allotments Ahall have been made under the provisions of this
act, or under any law or treaty, and every Indian born within
the territorial limits of the United States who has voluntarily
taken up, within said limits, his residence separate and apart
from any tribe of Indians therein,, and has adopted the habits
of civilized life, is hereby declared to be a citizen of the United
States, and is entitled to' all the rights, privileges, and immunities of such citizens, whether said Indian has been or not,
by birth or otherwise, a member of any tribe of Indians within
the territorial limits of the United States without in any manmer impairing or otherwise affecting the right of any such
Indian t6 tribal or other property."
Mr. A. E. Crane for petitioner:
The act of February 8, 1887, has been construed- by state
courts and allottee Indians held to be citizens. They become citizens on the allotment and not twenty-five years later.
State y. Denoyer, 72 N. W. Rep. 1015; State v. Morris, 55 N. W.
Rep. 1086; Wa La &c. v. Carter, 53 Pac. Rep. 106; United
States v. Rickert, 106 Fed. Rep. 5; In re Now Ge Zhuck, 76
Pac. Rep. 877. And see Boyd v. Nebraska, 143 U. S. 162;
Draper v. United States, 164 U. S. 240, 246; United States v.
Kopp, 110 Fed. Rep. 160, 166.
A citizen is one who owes the Government allegiance, service
and money by way of taxation, and to whom the Government
in turn grants and guarantees liberty of person and conscience,
the right of acquiring and possessing property, of marriage

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

and the social relations of suit and defense, and security in
person, estate and reputation. United States v. Cruikshank,
92 U. S.542; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 476; Lyons v.
Cunningham, 14 Pac. Rep. 938; Blank v. Pausch, 113 Illinois, 60.
At the time of the sale of intoxicating liquor to him petitioner was a citizen of the State of Kansas and subject to its
laws both civil and criminal and owing allegiance to the State,
which was bound to protect him in his righits as such citizen;
and in so doing the State would have the right to legislate
concerning the sale of intoxicating liquor to him. People v.
Bray, 38 Pac. Rep. 731. If the State has the right to legislate
concerning such matters, it cannot belong to the Federal
Government. United States v. Ward, 1 Kansas, 604; State v.
Campbell, 55 N. W. Rep. 553; The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737.
Citizenship is not affected by tribal relations. French v.
French, 52 S.W. Rep. 517; Raymond v. Raymond, 83 Fed.
Rep. 723; United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567.
When an Indian becomes a citizen of the United States, he
also becomes a citizen of the State wherein he resides. People
v. Bray, 38 Pac. Rep. 732; Beck v. Flourney Co., 65 Fed. Rep.
35; Keokuk v. Ulam, 38 Pac. Rep. 1080; United States v.
Hadley, 99 Fed. Rep. 437; Ells v. Ross, 64 Fed. Rep. 417;
Gassies v. Ballon, 6 Peters, 761. And is subject to its laws
both civil and criminal. Congress only has power to regulate
commerce of a tribe of Indians who maintain their tribal
relations and while they are in a condition to determine for
themselves with whom they will have commerce, or are in a
condition to have Congress determine it for them. As to the
status of an Indian who is subject to the jurisdiction and
control of Congress see United States v. Kagama 118 U. S. 375;
State v. Williams, 43 Pac. Rep. 15; People v. Ketchem, 15-Pac.
Rep. 353; State v. Newell, 24 Atl. Rep. 943; Stevensv. Thatcher,
39 Atl. Rep. 282; United States v. Hershman, 53 Fed. Rep. 543;
act of March 3, 1871, now § 2079, Rev. Stat.; act of March 3,
1885. Farrell v. United States, 110 Fed. Rep. 942, cannot be
sustained. The act of February 8, 1887, makes all allottee

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

197 U. S.

Indians citizens without qualifications, and Kansas, and it
alone, can regulate the sale of liquor to citizens of the State
and to Indians. Congress cannot make police regulations
affecting citizens of States. State v. Wise, 72 N. W. Rep.
843; State v. Lee, 38 S. W. Rep. 583; Breechbill v. Randall, 1
N. E. Rep. 362; New v. Walker, 108 Indiana, 365; W. U. Tel.
Co. v. Pendleton, 95 Indiana, 12; Hockett v. State, 5 N. E. Rep.
181; Board of Excise v. Barrie, 34 N. Y. 666; Cooley on Const.
Lim., § 572; United States v. DeWitt, 9 Wall. 41; License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 475; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
\Indians can be citizens as to their personal rights and obligations and yet the Government can control their land under
the act of: 1887. United States v. Rickert, _188 U. S. 432; 15
Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed., 20.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
Indian allottees, under the act of 1887, are not citizens at
all until the issue of the patent in fee. The "first patent,"
so-called, does not confer citizenship of the United States or
invoke state laws for their benefit and government: The
allotment is not completed nor the lands patented within the
meaning of sections 5 and 6 of the act until the final grant
free of trust or incumbrance. The act of 1897 must be taken
as a legislative interpretation of the act of 1887; the matter
being political and for the determination of Congress, the courts
will follow the construction by Congress; a fortiori, when a
different construction would render the later act unconstitutional. Johnson v. Southern Pacific Company, 196 U. S. 1.
As to ;uspension of the citizenship privilege until issue of
final patent see Kickapoo treaty of 1862, which provided
(Arts. 2, 3) for preliminary certificates and for. ultimate convey;ance in fee and citizenship when it was duly determined
that allottees were sufficiently intelligent and prudent to control their own affairs.
Even if qualified citizenship attaches upon the issue of the
preliminary patent, the Government nevertheless possesses

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U.S.

Argument for the United States.

authority to regulate liquor traffic with Indian allottees. The
fundamental Federal power of dealing with Indians and controlling trade with them is broad and absolute, affecting individuals as well as tribes, especially so long as the tribal
organization exists. United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375;
United Statei v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407; United States v. 43
Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188.
The tribal relations of Indian allottees are not affected by
the act of 1887. Section 10, Indian Appropriation Act of
March 2, 1895, 23 Stat. 876; § 5, act of February 28, 1899, 30
Stat. 909; Reports Interior Dept. for 1902, pt. 1, p. 217; for
1903, pt. 1, p. 182; act of March 3, 1903, § 7, 32 Stat. 982,
1007. The treaties with the Kickapoos preserved the tribal
organization, and the later policy of dealing with them by
statute continues that status.
The qualified citizenship and subjection to state laws is not
inconsistent with the power of Congress to regulate commerce.
The state cases upon which petitioner relies recognize that fact.
State v. Campbell, 53 Minnesota, 354. United States v. Ward,
McCahon's Rep. 199, distinguished, and see United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621; Draper v. United States, 164 U. S. 240.
Ordinarily, a Territory has general jurisdiction over an Indian reservation, but only in matters not interfering with the
Federal protection of the Indians in accordance with treaty
stipulations. Utah Northern Ry. Co. v. Fisher, 116 U. S. 28.
Accordingly, many of the state cases cited by petitioner hold
that an Indian allottee may sue and be sued in the state
courts; that he may be punished by the State for an offense
committed against the State; that if the State confers its
citizenship and the right of suffrage upon him, he may vote
at state elections.
There is no conflict of jurisdiction here, and the case does not
really call for an examination of the meaning of the privileges
and liabilities under the State created by the act of 1887. The
Indian is not invoking a state law, nor complaining of one, nor
is he charged with violation of a state law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

197 U. S.

It is not necessary to view the act of 1897 as i repeal pro
tanto of the act of 1887, but it is certainly true that any jurisdiction that the States may have over the Indians, being derived from Congress, is subject to alteration and repeal by
Congress, and the intention of the act of 1897 is manifest.
The citizenship of Indian allottees is not inconsistent with the
guardianship of Congress. The act of 1887 itself contemplates further Federal control, and this policy is carried out
by laterf acts, e. g., act of February 28, 1891, 26 Stat. 794;
act of March 4, 1891, 26 Stat. 987; act of May 31, 1900, 31
Stat. 221; 33 Stat. 213. This guardianship of the United
States has been recently recognized. Cherokee Nation v.
Hitchcock, :187 U. S.308; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.567.
United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.432, 437. Farrell v. United
States, 110 Fed. Rep. 942, precisely rules the controversy.
The act of 1887 did not change the status of Indian allottees
as wards of the Government. Ells v. Ross, 64 Fed. Rep. 417;
United States v. Logan, 105 Fed. Rep. 240; United States v.
Flournoy Live Stock &c. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 886; United States
v. Mullin, 71 Fed. Rep. 682; United States v. Belt, 128 Fed.
Rep. 168; United States v. Kiya, 126 Fed. Rep. 879; In re
Lincoln, 129 Fed. Rep. 247; Mulligan v. United States, 120
Fed. Rep. 98.
The continuance of the relation as wards relates both to
property and to personal protection. The personal protection
is at least as important, and th time of all others when Indians
need this protection is when they are taking their first tentative
steps as citizens. The right to buy or sell liquor is not an
inherent or fundamental right; it is not a privilege or immunity of a citizen of a State or of a citizen of the United
States. Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S.86; Farrellv. United
States, ut supra.
The power of the Federal Government to protect the Indians
is not dependent upon ,the preservation of tribal relations.
From the adoption of the Constitution the Indians have been
under the exclusive control of the nation, and the States are

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without authority to extend their laws over the tribes residing
within their limits. Authorities supra, and Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 565; Fellows v. Blacksmith, 19 How. 366; Cherokee
Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.641, 653; Stevens
v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 484; Renfrow v. United
States, 3 Oklahoma, 166; § 2139, Rev. Stat.
If these Indians are citizens at all, they arc not citizens of
full competence, just as minors are citizens and subject to
rights and duties as such, but are not sui furis in respect of
age, and other classes of citizens under personal or legal disabilities are not sui juris in other respects. United States v.
Ritchie, 17 How. 525, 540.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

The contention of petitioner is thht the act of January 30,
1897, is unconstitutional as applied to the sales of liquor to
an Indian who has received an allotment and patent of land
under the provisions of the act of February 8, 1887, because
it is provided in said act that each and every Indian to whom
allotments have been made shall be subject to the laws, both
civil and criminal, of the State in which they may reside, and
further that John Butler, having, as is admitted, received an
allotment of land in severalty and his patent therefor under
the provisions of the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, is no
longer a ward of the Government, but a citizen of the United
States and of the State of Kansas, and subject to the laws, both
civil and criminal, of said State.
The relation between the Government and the Indians and
the rights and obligations consequent thereon have been the
subject of frequent consideration by this court. Among the
recent cases, in which are found references to many prior adjudications, may be mentioned Stepheiis v. Cherokee Nation,
174 U. H. 445; Mfinnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 IT. S.373; Cherokee
Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 291 Lonie !1fol/ v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S.553, and United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.432. In
VOL. CXCV-ii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

a general way it may be said that the recognized relation between the Government and the Indians is that of a superior
and an inferior, whereby the latter is placed under the care
and control of the former. Choctaw Nation v. United States,
119 U. S. 1, 28. In the early dealings of the Government with
the Indian tribes the latter were recognized as possessing some
of the attributes of nations, with which the former made
treaties, and the policy of the Government was, sometimes by
treaties and sometimes by the use of force, to put a stop to
the wanderings of these tribes and locate them on some definite
territory or reservation, there establishing for them a communal or tribal life. While this policy was in force, and this,
location of wandering tribes was being accomplished, much of
the legislation of Congress ran in the direction of the isolation
of the Indians, preventing general intercourse between them
and their white neighbors in order that they.might not be
defrauded or wronged through the superior cunning and skill
of, dose neighbors. The practice of dealing with the Indian
tribes as separate nations was changed by a proviso inserted
in the Indian appropriation act of March 3, 1871 (16 Stat. 566;
carried into section 2079 Rev. Stat.), which reads: "No Indian
nation or tribe within the territory of the United States shall be
acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or
power with whom the United States may contract by treaty."
From that time on the Indian tribes and the individual members thereof have been subjected to the direct legislation of
Congress which, for some time thereafter, continued the policy
of locating the tribes on separate reservations and perpetuating
the communal or tribal life.
While during these years the exercise of certain powers by
the Indian tribes was recognized, yet their subjection to the
full control of the United States was often affirmed. In Lone
Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.565, it was said:" Plenary authority
over the tribal relations of the Indians has beer- exercised by
Congress from the beginning, and the power has always been
deemed a political one, not subject to be controlled by the

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judicial department of the Government." And the conclusion thus reached was supported by the authority of several
cases. It is true we ruled, when treaties between the Indian
tribes and the United States were the subject of consideration, that "how the words of the treaty were understood by
this unlettered people, rather than their critical meaning,
should form the rule of, construction." Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515, 582. And we also said that the obligations which
the United States were under to the Indians called for "such
an interpretation of their acts and promises as justice and reason demand in all bases where power is exerted by the strong
over those to whom they owe care and protection." Choctaw
Nation v. United States, 119 U. S, 1, 28. But none of the decisions affirming the protection of the Indians questioned the
full power of the Government to legislate in respect to them.
Of late years a'new policy has found expression in the legislation of Congress-a policy which looks to the breaking up of
tribal relations, the establishing of the separate Indians in
individual homes, free from national guardianship and charged
with all the rights and obligations of citizens of the United
States. Of the power of the Government to cqrry out this
policy there can be no doubt. It is under no constitutional
obligation to perpetually continue the relationship of guardian
and war d . It may at any time abandon its guardianship and
leave the ward to assume and be subject to all the privileges
and burdens of one sui juris. And it is for Congress to determine when and how that relationship of guardianship shall be
abandoned. It is not within the power of the courts to overrule the judgment'of Congress. It is true there may be a
presumption that no radical departure is intended, and courts
may wisely insist that the purpose of Congress be made clear
by its legislation, but when that purpose is made clear the
question is at an end.
It may be well to notice some of the 'legislation of Congress
having this end in view. Section 15 of the act of March-3,
1893, 27 Stat. 612, 645, reads: .

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 IT. S.

"The consent of the United States is hereby given to the
allotment of lands in severalty not exceeding one hundred and
sixty acres to any one individual within the limits of the
country occupied by the Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Seminoles; and upon such allotments the individuals
to whom the same may be allotted shall be deemed to be in
all respects citizens of the United States. And the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, is hereby appropriated to pay for the survey of any
such lands as may be allotted by any of said tribes of Indians
to individual members of said tribes; and upon the allotment
of the lands held by said tribes respectively, the reversionary
interest of the United States therein shall be relinquished and
shall cease."
Section 16 created what is known as the Dawes Commission,
for extinguishing the national or tribal title to lands within the
Indian Territory. Pursuant to its authority an agreement
was made with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, for the
allotment of their lands among the members, which agreement
was ratified and approved by the act of Congress of June .28,
1898. 30 Stat. 495. In that agreement it was stipulated
(p. 513): "It is further agreed that the Choctaws and Chickasaws, when their tribal governments cease, shall become
possessed of all the rights and privileges of citizens of the
United States." By the same act an agreement made with
the Creek Indians, which contained a similar stipulation, was
ratified and approved. In the last treaty with the Kickapoos,
to which tribe John Butler, the person to whom the petitioner
is charged to have sold the liquor, belonged, a treaty concluded June 28, 1862 (Revision of Indian Treaties, Art. 8,
p. 449), it was provided:
"ART. 3. At any time hereafter, when the President of the
United States shall have become satisfied that any adults,
being males and heads of families, who may be allottees under
the provision of the foregoing article, arc sufficiently intelligent
and prudent to control their affairs and interests, he may, at

MATTER OF IHEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the requests of such persons, cause the land severally held by
them to be conveyed to them by patent in fee simIple, with
power of alienation; and may, at the same time, cause to he
set apart and placed to their credit severally, their proportion
of the cash value of the credits of the tribe, principal and interest, then held in trust by the United States, and also, as
the same may be received, their proportion of the proceeds of
the sale of lands under the provisions of this treaty. And on
such patents being issued, and such payments ordered to be
made by the President, such competent persons shall cease to
be members of said tribe, aad shall become citizens of the United
States; and thereafter the lands so patented to them sh'all be
subject to levy, taxation, and sale, in likemanner with the
property of other citizens: Provided, That before making any
such application to the President, they shall appear in open
court, in the District Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, and make the same proof and take the same
oath of allegiance as is provided by law for the naturalization
of aliens; and shall also make proof, to the satisfaction of said
court, that they are sufficiently intelligent and prudent to
control their affairs and interests; that they have adopted the
habits of civilized life, and have been able to support, for at
least five years, themselves and families."
A similar clause is found in the treaty of April 19, 1862,
between the United States and the Pottawatomie Indians.
(Revision of Indian Treaties, 683, 685.) It was not uncommon
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Kansas, in the years following these treaties, to see Indians
coming into the District Court and taking the oath of allegiance, as required by these provisions. We make these references to recent treaties, not. with a view of determining the
rights created thereby, but simply as illustrative of the proposition that the policy of the Government has changed, and that
an effort is being made to relieve some of the findians from
their tutelage and endow them with thef full rights of citizenship, thus terminating between heiim awd (ihe Government the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

relation of guardian and ward, and that the statute we are
considering is not altogether novel in the history of Congressional legislation.
Now the act of 1887 was passed twenty-five years after the
treaty of 1862 with the Kickapoos, and must be construed in
the light of that treaty. By the treaty it was declared that at
-the instance of the President, and upon compliance with specified Provisions, certain of the Indians should be considered as
competent persons, should cease to be members of the tribe
and become citizens of the United States. The act of 1887, in
like manner, provides that at the instance of the President, a
reservation may be surveyed and individual tracts allotted to
the Indians, and that upon approval of the allotments by the
Secretary of the Interior patents shall issue, subject to a condition against alienation and incufmbrances during a period of
twenty-five years, or longer, if the President deems it wise.
Section 6 then declares that the "Indians to whom allotments
shall have been made shall have the benefit of and be subject
to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State or Territory
in which they may reside, and no Territory shall pass or enforce
any law denying any such Indian within its jurisdiction the
equal' protection of the law."
It is urged that this clause becomes operative only when the
final patent provided for by section 5 is issued, but there are
many reasons why such contention is unsound. In the first
place, it is hardly to be supposed that Congress would legislate
twenty-five years in advance in respect to the general status
of these Indians. If they were to continue in the same relation to the Government that they hitherto occupied, it would
seem as though Congress would have said nothing and waited
until near the expiration of twenty-five years before determining what should be such status. Second, the language of
the first sentence of section 6 forbids the construction contended for. It is" that upon the completion of said allotments
and the patenting of the lands to said allottees." Now the
allotting and the patenting are joined together as though oe-.

MATTER OF IIEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of thi Court.

curring at or near the same time.

Further, when the first

patent is issued, the recipient ceases to be an allottee and
becomes a pdtentee. Again, the second patent does not always
go to the holder of the first patent because, as provided by
section 5, it may go to the first patentee or his 'heirs. And
finally, the last sentence indicates that the whole section deals
with present conditions and present rights. It reads: "And
every Indian born within the territorial limits of the United
States to whom allotments shall have been made under the
provisions of this act . . . is hereby declared to be a
citizen of the United States, and is'entitled to'all the rights,
privileges, and immunities of such citizens, . . . without
in any manner impairing or otherwise affecting the right of
any such Indian to tribal or other property." This confers
citizenship upon the allottee and not upon the patentee, while
at the same time securing to him his right to tribal or other
property. So far as his political status is concerned the allottee
is declared to be a citizen-not that he will be a citizen after
twenty-five years have passed and a second patent shall have
been issued. That citizenship is limited to the allottees born
within the territorial limits of the United States was obviously
inte(nded to exclude from that privilege such allottees, if any
there shofld be, who had recently come into this country from
the Dominion of Canada or elsewhere.
This question has been presented to several state and some
Federal courts, and the ruling universally has been to the same
effect. State ex rel. v. Denoyer, 6 N. Dak. 586; State ex rel. v.
Norris, 37 Nebraska, 299; Wa-La-Note-The-Tynin v. Carter,
6 Idaho, 85; In re Now-Ge-Zhuck, 76 Pac. Rep. 877; United
States v. Rickert, 106 Fed. Rep. 1, 5; Farrell v. United States,
110 Fed. Rep. 942, 947. In the first of these cases this declaration is made: "Such Indians and persons of Indian descent,
so residing upon lands allotted to them in severalty, and upon
which the preliminary patents have been issued, are citizens
of the United States, and qualified electors of this State."
See also Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, 162, in which it is said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

"The act of Congress approved February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388,
was much broader, and by its terms made every Indian
situated as therein referred to, a citizen of the United States."
In reference to this matter the learned Solicitor General
makes these observations:
"Were it not for the fact that every court that has considered this language at all has assumed it to mean that an
Indian becomes entitled to the benefit of and subject to the
laws of the State in which he resides' upon the receipt of his
first patent, the natural inference would be that Congress
intended those consequences to attach only when the allotmerits-referred to had been fully completed and final patent
issued. But in spite of the array of cases upon this subject,
it will be found, upon examination, that in none of them was
the provision referred to carefully analyzed and discussed, and
that from first to last it has been merely a matter of assumption.
"Upon the subject of °citizenship, section 6 provides that
'every Indian born within the territorial limits of the United
States to whom allotments shall have been made under the
provisions of this act or under any law or treaty,

.

.

. is

hereby declared to be a citizen of the United States, and is
entitled to all the rights, privileges, and immunities of such
citizens.'
"It would seem that Congress intended citizenship of the
United States to attach at the same time that the Indian becomes subject to the laws of the State or Territory in which he
resides. As a matter of constitutional law, an Indian appears
to be entitled to the benefit of and to be subject to the laws of
the State in which he resides the moment he becomes a citizen
of the United States. By virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment a citizen of the United States becomes, by re,,idence
therein, a citizen of tie State, and entitled to all the rights,
privileges, and immunities of other citizens of the State and
to the eqlal protection of its laws. The Slaughter House Cases,
16 A\'all. 36."

MATTER OF IIEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We do not doubt that the construction placed by these
several courts upon this section is correct, and that John
Butler, at the time the defendant sold him the liquor, was. a
citizen of the United States and of the State of Kansas, having
the benefit of and being subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of that State. Under these circumstances could the
conviction of the petitioner in the Federal court of a violation
of the act of Congress of January 30, 1897, be sustained? In
this Republic there is a dual system of government, National,
and state. Each within its own domaii is supreme, and one
of the chief functions of this court is to preserve the balance
between them, protecting each i-- the powers it possesses and
preventing any trespass thereon by the other. The general
police power is reserved to the States, subject, however, to the
limitation that in its exercise the State may not trespass upon.
the rights and powers vested in the General Government. The
regulation of the sale of intoxicating liquors is one of the most
common and significant exercises of the police power. And
so far as it is an exercise of the police power it is within the
domain of state jurisdiction. It is true the National Government exacts licenses as a condition of the sale of intoxicating
liquors, but that is solely for the purposes. of revenue and is no
attempted exercise of the police power. A license from the
United States does not give the licensee authority to sell
liquor in a State whose laws forbid its sale, and neither does a
license from a State to sell liquor enable the licensee to sell
without paying the tax ,nd obtaining the license required by
the Federal statute. License Cases, 5 How. 504; McGuire v.
The Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 387; License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462.

Now the act of 1.897 is not a revenue statute, but plainly a
police regulation. It will not be doubted that an act of
Congress attempting as a police regulation to punish the sale
of liquor by one citizen of a State to another within the territorial limits of that State would be an invasion of tue State's
jurisdiction and could not be sustained, and it would be it--,
material what the antecedent status of either buyer or seller

OCo()BER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

was. There is in these police matters no such thing as a
(ivide(l sovereignty. ,Jurisdiction is vested entirely in either
the State or the Nation anl not divided between the two.
Iti The K ow s Indian , 5 Wall. 737, the question was whether
lan(ls of Shawnee In(ians hel(l in severalty were subject to
state taxation, anii it was held that they were not, although in
the last treaty with the Shawnees, the one authorizing the
allotments, there was no express stipulation for exell)tion
from taxation. The court said(l (p. 755):
"If the tribal organization of the Shawnees is preserved
intact, and recognized by the political department of the
Government as existing, then they are a 'people distinct from
others,' capable of making treaties, separated from the jurisdiction of Kansas, and to be governed exclusively by the
government of the Uinion. If under the control of Congress,
from necessity there can be no divided authority. If they
have outlived many things, they have not outlived the protection afforded by the Constitution, treaties, and laws of Congress. It may be that they cannot exist much longer as a
distinct people in the ;,*esence of the civilization of Kansas,
'but until they are clothed with the rights and bound to all
the (luties of citizens,' they enjoy the privilege of total immunity from state taxation."
If it be true that there can be no (livided authority over the
property of the Indian, a Jortiori must it be true as to his
political status and rights.
Subjection to both state and National law in the same
matter might often be impossible. The power to punish a
sale to an Indian implies an equal power to punish a sale by
an Indian. If by National law a sale to or by an Indian was
punished solely by imprisonment and by state law solely by
fine, how could both laws be enforced in respect to the same
sale? The question is not whether a particular right may be
enforced in either a court of the State or one of the Nation, but
whether two sovereignties can create independent duties and
compel obedience. In United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41, the

MATTER OF HEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question was whether the twenty-ninth section of the internal
revenue act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 471, 484, which established a police regulation inrespect to the mixing for sale or
the selling of naphtha and illuminating oils was enforciblewithin the limits of a State, and it was held that it was not, the
court saying (p. 45):
"As a police regulation, relating exclusively .to the internal
trade of the States, it can only have effect where the legislative
authority of Congress excludes, territorially, all state legislation, as for example, in the District of Columbia. Within
state limits, it can have no constitutional operation."
In re Now-Ge-Zhuck, 76 Pac. Rep. 877, decided by the Supreme Court -of Kansas, referred to an allottee under the act
of February 8, 1887, and in respect to the power of the State
to enforce its laws over such allottee that court said:
"An Indian upon whom has been conferred citizenship, and
who enjoys the protection of the laws of the State, should be
puL,,shed for a transgression of them. This we are to presume
Congress contemplated. It being shown by the agreed facts
that the petitioner was an allottee to whom a patent had been
issued, and further shown that the allotments had been made
and completed as provided by the act of February 8, 1887, the
laws of the State were operative, and the State had jurisdiction
to arrest and punish petitioner for the offense by him committed."
It is true the same act may often be a violation of both the
state and Federal law, but it is only when those laws occupy
different planes. Thus, a sale of liquor may be a violation of
both the state and Federal law, in that it was made by one
who had not paid the revenue tax and received from the
United States a license to sell, and also had not complied with
the state law in reference to the matter of state license. But
in that ease the two laws occupy different planes-one that
of revenue and the other that of police regulation. There is
no suggestion in the present case of a violation of the internal
revenue law of the Nation, but the conviction is sought to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

upheld under the act of 1897, a mere statute of police regulation.
But it is contended that although the United States may not
punish under the police power the sale of liquor within a State
by one citizen to another it has power to punish such sale if
the purchaser is an Indian. And the power to do this is traced
to that clause of section 8, Art. I, of the Constitution, which
empowers Congress "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes." It is said that commerce with the Indian tribes includes commerce with the members thereof, and Congresshaving power to regulate commerce between the white men
and the Indians continues to retain that power, although it
has provided that the Indian shall have the benefit of and be
subject to the civil and criminal laws of the State and shall be
a citizen of the United States, and therefore a citizen of the
State. But the logic of this argument implies that the United
States can never release itself from the obligation of guardianship; that so long as an individual is an Indian by descent,
Congress, although it may have granted all the rights and
privileges of National and therefore state citizenship, the benefits and burdens of the laws of the State, may at any time
repudiate this action and reassume its guardianship, and prevent the Indian from enjoying the benefit of the laws of the
State, and release him from obligations of obedience thereto.
Can it be that because one has Indian, and only Indian blood
in his veins, he is to be forever one of a special class over whom
the General Government may in its discretion assume the rights
of guardianship which it has once abandoned, and this whether
the State or the individual himself consents? We think the
reach to which this argument goes demonstrates that it is
unsound.
But it is said that the Government has provided that the
Indians' title shall not be alienated or encumber, (I for twentyfive years, and has also stipulated that the grant of citizenship
shall not deprive the Indian of his interest in tribal or other

MATTER 01 HEFF.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property, but these are mere property rights and do not affect
the civil or political status of the allottees. In United States
v. Rickert, 188. U. S. 432, we sustained the right of the Government to protect the lands thus allotted and patented from any
encumbrance of state taxation. Undoubtedly an allottee can
enforce his right to an interest in the tribal or other property
(for that right is expressly granted) and equally clear is it
that Congress may enforce and protect any condition which
it attaches to any of its grants. This it may do by appropriate
proceedings in either a National or a state court. But the fact
that property is held subject to a condition against alienation
does not affect the civil or political status of the holder of the
title. Many a tract of land is conveyed with conditions subsequent. A minor may not alienate his lands; and the proper
tribunal may at the instance of the rightful party enforce all
restraints upon alienation.
But it is unnecessary to pursue this discussion further, We
are of the opinion that when, the United States grants the
privileges of citizenship to an Indian, gives to him the benefit
of and requires him to be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State, it places him outside the reach of police
regulations on the part of Congress; that the emancipation
from Federal control thus created cannot be set aside at the
instance of the Government without the consent of the individual Indian and the State, and that this emancipation
from Federal control is not affected by the fact that the lands
it has granted to the Indian are granted subject to a condition
against alienation and encumbrance, or the further fact that
it guarantees to him an interest in tribal or other property.
The District Court of Kansas did not have jurisdiction of
the offense charged, and therefore the petitioner is entitled to
his discharge from imprisonment.
MR. JusTIcE¢ HARLAN dissented.

