CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OOTOBER TERM, 1904.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. ELY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
Nos..102,

8.

Submitted December 15, 1904.-Decided February 20, 1905.

Northern Pacific Railway Company v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, affirmed as
to the point that individuals cannot for private purposes acquire by adverse possession under a state statute of limitations any portion of the
right of wdy granted to the Northern Pacific Railway Company. But
by the act of April 28, 1904, that right of way was narrowed to two
hundred feet in width and title acquired to land outside of a strip of that
width was confirmed.
As the decree in this case was rendered and a writ of error therefrom was
pending in this court priot to April 28, 1904, the decree must be reversed
and the case remanded to the state courts to be dealt with in view of the
application of the act of April 28, 1904.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. W. Bunn and Mr. James B. Kerr for plaintiff in

error.
Mr.-William E. Cullen and Mr. Samuel R. Stern for Ely,
defendant in error.
(1)
VOL. cxCviI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S

Mr. Harold Preston and Mr. F. T. Post for Browne and
others, defendants in error, cited to effect that a railroad
company may lose by abandonment or adverse possession
unused portions of its right of way: Pittsburg &c. Ry. Co.
v. Stickley, 155 Indiana, 312; Railroad v. Houghton, 126 Illinois,
233; Railroad v. O'Connor, 154 Illinois, 550; Railroad v. Moore,
160 Illinois, 9; Railroad v. Donohue, 165 Illinois, 640; Railroad
v. Wakefield, 173 Illinois, 564; Matthews v. Lake Shore R. R.,
l10Michigan, 170; Turner v. Fitchburg R. R., 145 Massachusetts, 143; Gay v. Boston A. R. Co., 141 Massachusetts, 407;
Paxton v. Yazoo & M. V. R. R., 76 Mississippi, 536; Spottswood v. Morris E. R. Co., 61 N. J. Law, 322; Townsend v.
N. P. R. R. Co., 84 Minnesota, 152; Bobbitt v. Railway Co., 9
Q. B. Div. 424; Newton v. Railway Co., 13 Ch. Div. 268;
Rosseau v. Railway Co., 17 Ont. App. 483.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit brought by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, successor to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in the Superior Court of the County of Spokane, State
of Washington, against a large number of persons, to quiet
title, remove clouds and recover possession' of certain parcels
of real estate, alleged to be portions of its right of way in that
county.
The complaint alleged that plaintiff was the owner and
entitled to a strip of land, four hundred feet wide, on Which
defendants had wrongfully entered. Some of the defendants
were defaulted. Separate answers were interposed by others,
separate trials had, separate verdicts rendered, and bill of
exceptions granted. As to one defendant, the case was submitted to the court for trial, and findings of fact and conclusions of law were made and filed.
A single decree was rendered in favor of contesting defendants, from which the railway company appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, where the decree was affirmed. 25
Washington, 384.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. ELY.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The opinion of that court was filed June 29, 1901, and judgment of affirmance entered July 30, 1901. On May 4, 1903,
the case of Northern Pacific Railway Company v. Townsend,
190 U. Si 267, was decided. May 28, 1903, the railway company was allowed a writ of error from this court, the judgment of the State Supreme Court being described as entered
June 29, 1901. The case was docketed July 23, 1903, and is
now numbered 88. June 30 a second writ of error was taken.
out and filed below, the papers correctly describing the judgment as entered July 30, 1901, and was docketed here August 13, 1903, and is now numbered 102.
Plaintiff moved for leave to amend the record in No. 88 so
that the date of the judgment might be correctly given, and
that thereupon No. 102 be dismissed, or, in the alternative,
that No. 88 be dismissed. We grant the latter application
and dismiss No. 88 without prejudice to proceeding in No. 102.
Wheeler v. Harris, 13 Wall. 51; Silsby v. Foote, 20 How. 290.
The facts on which the State Supreme Court proceeded are
thus stated:
"It may be conceded, we think, that the right of way which
embraces the land in dispute was granted to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company by act of Congress in 1864, and
that, to the title to the right of way thus granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company has succeeded. It may also be conceded, for the
purposes of this case, that the Northern Pacific Railway Company has complied with all the terms and provisions of the act
of Congress aforesaid, and has constructed its railroad through
the whole of the line of road between the points named in the
granting act; that a map of definite location was 'filed October 4, 1880, prior to the acquiring of the title to the land in
question by the defendants or their predecessors or grantors;
and that said railroad has been continuously operated since
its construction. The defendants, answering, claim title by
patent from the United States Government. The land was
acquired under the preemption and homestead acts, respec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

tively, and all the defendants or their grantors have been in
quiet, peaceful, undisturbed, and undisputed possession of said
land for more than ten years immediately prior to the commencement of this action, many of them for nearly twenty
years. Valuable improvements have been made by the defendants, the said land consisting of town lots in the city of
Spokane, and having been platted and laid out as additions
to the city of Spokane by the defendants or their grantors
after acquiring title to the same from the United States Government. During all these years no claim whatever to these
lands has been made by the appellant. It has stood by and
seen improvements made thereon, and, in the case of defendant Brown, an agreement was entered into between him and
General Sprague, who was then the general superintendent
of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, that they would
plat their lots so that the streets of the addition which the
railroad company was dedicating would correspond with and
meet the streets which Brown was dedicating to the city of
Spokane, and the agreement was carried out by arranging the
streets in accordance therewith. These streets have been
used by the public for from ten to eighteen years. The testimony shows that, in addition to the improvements which these
defendants have made upon their lots, many thousands of
dollars have been paid by them for assessments levied upon
abutting land for the improvement of streets running through
this right of way; that the appellant has never paid these assessments; that they have never been assessed to the appellant
and that no question has ever been raised by the appellant
as to the right and obligation of the defendants to pay the
same. While the record does not show that any of the lands
owned by the defendants were deeded to them by the appellant, it does show that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company has deeded to other parties lots in the city of Spokane
situated within the 400 feet of right of way, upon which valuable improvements have been made by its grantees."
It may be added that it was only as to some of the parcels

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. ELY.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the filing of the map of definite location and the construction of the railroad preceded the filing of the entries. But we
regard the case as falling within the rule holding the grant of
the right of way effective from the date of the act. Railroad
Company v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426.
The Supreme Court held that the action was barred by the
statute of limitations; that the company was estopped from
asserting title by reason of the circumstances; and that:
"Where, through the negligence and laches of a railroad company, the occupancy by others of portions of the right of way
granted to it by the Government has ripened into title by
adverse possession, the company cannot set up the defense
that the right of way was granted for public purposes only
and that it would be against public policy to permit either its
abandonment by the company or the acquisition of adverse
rights therein by way of estoppel or of the bar of the statute
of limitations."
As before stated, on the fourth day of May, 1903, the decision of this court in Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, was announced. We there ruled
that individuals could not for private purposes acquire by
adverse possession, under a state statute of limitations, any
portion of a right of way, granted by the United States to a
railroad company in the manner and under the conditions
that the right of way was granted to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company. At the same time it was not denied that
such right of way granted through the public domain within
a State was amenable to the police power of the State. And
we said: "Congress must have assumed when making this
grant, for instance, that in the natural order of' events, as
settloments were made along the line of the railroad, crossings of the right of way would become necessary, and that
other limitations in favor of the general public upon an exclusive right of occupancy by the railroad of its right of way
might be justly imposed. But such limitations are in no sense
analogous to claim of adverse ownership for private use:"

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

We afe not prepared to overrule that decision, and tested by
it, the judgment in this case must be reversed. But we were
then dealing with the original right of way, which was of a
width of four hundred feet. April 28,. 1904, an act of Congress entitled "An act validating certain conveyances of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company and the Northern Pacific
Railway Company," was approved, 33 Stat. 538, c. 1782,
reading as follows:
"That all conveyances heretofore made by the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company or by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, of land forming a part of the right of way of the
Northern Pacific Railroad, granted by the Government by
any act of Congress, are hereby legalized, validated, and confirmed: Provided, That no such conveyance shall have effect
to diminish said right of way to a less width than one hundred
feet on each side of the center of the main track of the railroad as now established and maintained.
"SEC. 2.' That this act shall have no validating force until
the Northern Pacific Railway Company shall file with the
Secretary of the Interior an instrument in writing, accepting
its terms and provisions."
The terms and provisions of the act were accepted by the
railway company June 22, 1904, and the acceptance, duly
certified, was filed in the Interior Department July 7, 1904.
In the Townsend case it was said, among other things (p. 271):
"Manifestly, the land forming the right of way was not
granted with the intent that it might be absolutely disposed
of at the volition of the company. On the contrary, the grant
was explicitly stated to be for a designated purpose, one which
negated the existence of the power to voluntarily alienate the
right of way or any portion thereof. The substantial consideration inducing the grant was the perpetual use of the land for
the legitimate purposes of the railroad, just as though the land
had been conveyed in terms to have and to hold the same so
long as it was used for the railroad right of way. In effect
the grant was of a limited fee, made on an implied condition

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. ELY.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of reverter in the event that the company ceased to use or
retain the land for the purpose-for which it was granted.
Congress having plainly manifested its intention that
the title to and possession of the right of way should continue
in the original grantee, its successors and assigns, so long as
the railroad was maintained, the possession by individuals of
portions of the right of way cannot be treated without overthrowing the act of Congress as forming the basis of an adverse possession which may ripen into a title good as against
the railroad company." 190 U. S. 271, 272.
The act of April 28, 1904, in view of our decision in that
case, was obviously intended to and did have the effect to
narrow the right of way to two hundred feet in width, so far
at least as outside of that strip the original right of way had
been parted with.
The rule in the State of Washington as to adverse possession
is thus stated by the Supreme Court in this case:
"One holding land adversely to the rights of another can
be divested only by the action of the other, even with a better
right, within the time prescribed by the statute of limitations,
and this is true, even though he may have originally entered
under a void grant or sale. But his claim ripens into a perfect
title and becomes absolute, if such possession is not disturbed
within the time prescribed. As is said by 3 Washburn on
Real Property, 5th ed., p. 176:
"'The operation of the statute takes away the title of the
real owner and transfers it, not in form, indeed, but in legal
effect, to the adverse occupant. In other words, the statute
of limitations gives a perfect title. The doctrine is stated
thus strongly, because it seems to be the result 'of modern
decisions, although it was once held that the effect of the
statute was merely to take away the remedy, and did not bind
the estate, or transfer the title.' " 25 Washington, 388.
In Sharon v. Tucker, 144 U. S. 533, 543, Where the statute
of limitations in force in the District of Columbia was applied,
Mr. JusticQ Field, speaking for the court, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

"It'is now well settled that by adverse possession for the
period designated by the statute, not only is the remedy of the
former owner gone, but his title has passed to the occupant,
so that the latter can maintain ejectment for the possession
against such former ownershould he intrude upon the premises.
In several of the States this doctrine has become a positive
rule, by their statutes of limitations declaring that uninterrupted possession for the period designated to bar an action
for the recovery of land shall, of itself, constitute a complete
title. Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Campbell v'. Holt,
115 U. S. 620, 623."
This was, quoted in 'Toltec Ranch Company v. Cook, 191 U. S.
532, 538, and, it was 'remarked:
"Adverse possession, therefore, may be said to transfer the
title as effectually as a conveyance from the owner; it may
be considered as tantamount to a conveyance."
So far as title to portions of the right of way could be lawfully acquired from the railway company, defendants below,
appellees in the Supreme Court, had acquired title to their
parcels by adverse possession, and occupied the same position
as if they had received conveyances, which the act of April 28,
1904, operated to confirm. The act is remedial and to be
construed accordingly. The lots of some of the defendants
were outside of the two hundred feet. The lots of others were
partly within and partly without the strip. But the act was
passed after the judgment- of the Supreme Court was rendered and while the case was pending here, and it must be left
to the state courts to deal with the matter in the light of the
conciusions at which we have arrived.
In Railway Company v. Twombly, 100 U. S.78, which was
a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado,' the act authorizing the action was repealed while the
writ was pending in this court, and we, in the exercise of
appellate jurisdiction, declined to send the case back to the
court below with instructions to enter a judgment of nonsuit,
and affirmed the judgment because we found no error.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. HASSE.

9

Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

In the present case, the parties will not be compelled to
resort to some form of original proceeding to obtain relief
under the act of April 28, 1904, as, apart from the statute, the
decree must be reversed, and thereupon the record will be
open for such adjudication as the then situation may demand.
In No. 88, writ of error dismissed; in No. 102, decree reversed
and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN Was of opinion that the decree of the
state Supreme Court should be affirmed for the reasons
given,
and, therefore, dissented.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. HASSE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 118.

Submitted January 6, 1905.-Decided February 20, 190.

This case -is governed by the decision in Northern Pacific Railway Company
v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, and Northern Pacific Railway Company v.

Ely, ante, p. 1.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. W. Bunn and Mr. James B. Kerr for plaintiff in
error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the cour t.

This was an action of ejectment brought by the Norther.
Pacific Railwaf Company in the Superior Court of Kittjtw

