OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

MIDDLETOWN NATIONAL BANK v. TOLEDO, ANN
ARBOR AND NORTHERN MICHIGAN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 167. Argued March 7,1905.-Decided April 3, 1905.

Article XIII, § 3, of the constitution of Ohio of 1851, providing that dues
from corporations be secured by individual liability of the stockholders
as may be prescribed by law to a further sum over and above their stock
at least equal to the amount of such stock, is not so far self-executing
that it may be enforced outside of the jurisdiction of that State without
compliance with the requirements of the state statute fixing the amount
of the liability and the method of enforcing it.
Under § 3260, Rev. Stat., Ohio, the remedy must be pursued in the courts
of that State and a creditor, who has not commenced any action in the
Ohio courts, cannot obtain the relief given by the statute, in the Circuit
Court of the United States in another State, against stockholders resident
therein-

THIS case comes here by virtue of a certificate from the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
which sets forth the following facts:
The case came before the Circuit Court of Appeals by appeal from the decree of the United States Circuit' Court for
the Southern District of New York, sustaining demurrers to
the bill of complaint and dismissing the bill. The complainant in the bill was a creditor of the railway company (the
defendant), which is a corporation created under the laws of
the State of Ohio, and complainant recovered a judgment
against the defendant railway company in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, upon which execution was issued
and returned, unsatisfied. The complainant then brought its
bill in equity in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of N~w York, far the benefit of itself and other creditors
against numerous stocltholders of the railway company, defendant, residing in the district, to enforce the liability of those

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
197 U. S.

395

Statement of the Case.

stockholders for the debts of the railway company, under the
laws of Ohio, and that company was made a party defendant.
The constitution of Ohio (1851), Article 13, section 3, is as
follows:
"Dues from corporations shall be secured, by such individual
liability of the stockholders, and other means, as may be
prescribed by law; but, in all cases, each stockholder shall be
liable, over and above the stock by him or her owned, and any
amount unpaid thereon, to a further sum, at least equal in
amount to such stock."
In pursuance of this provision of the constitution the legislature of Ohio adopted statutory provisiois with respect to the
stockholders of certain corporations which appear in the
Revised Statutes .of 1880, section 3258, in the following form:
"The stockholders of a corporation which may be hereafter
formed, and such stockholders as are now liable under former
statutes, shall be deemed and held liable, in addition to their
stock, in an amount equal to the stock by them subscribed, or
otherwise acquired, to the creditors of the corporation, to
secure the payment of the debts and liabilities of the corporation."
Section 3260 of the Revised Statutes of 1880, as amended
in 1894, provided as follows:"A stockholder or creditor may enforce such liability by
action jointly against all the holders or owners of stock, which
action shall be for the benefit of all the creditors of the corporation, and against all persons liable as stockholders; and in
such actions there shall be found and determined the amount
payable by each person liable as stockholder on all the indebtedness of the corporation, in which adjudication no costs
shall be taxed to nor collected of any stockholder to an amount
which, together with the amount to be paid on said indebtedness, will exceed the amount of the stock on which he is liable,
provided, that in any such action the plaintiff may fil6 in the
court a sworn statement that a stockholder or stockholders
or the legal representatives of a deceased stockholder have not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

been summoned,, giving their residence if known, and that it
is impracticable to secure service of summons upon such
stockholders or such legal representatives of a stockholder, and
remitting from the claims of the plaintiff or of other creditors
consenting, so much as may be found payable by such stockholders not served with summons except those who may be
insolvent or non-resident of the State, and judgment shall be
rendered against the stockholders who have been served with
summons for the pro rata amount for which they would be
liable if all solvent stockholders resident of the State were
served with summons; and wheiP a creditor has prosecuted
against a corporation an action of (at) law begun before any
action to enforce the stockholders' liability, and has recovered
final judgment only after such an action to enforce the stockholders' liability has been prosecuted to a final decree in the
court in which the action was commenced, such judgment
creditor may bring a like action against the stockholders of
the corporation to enforce such judgment at any time within
four years after the recovery of his said judgment, but the
stockholders shall not be liable for any amount in excess of that
provided in section 3258."
As so amended this seation stood at the time when this suit
was begun. Afterwards, in 1900, bt before the filing of the
second amended bill of complaint, the section, as further
amended and supplemeited, provided as follows:
"Se. 3260. Whenever any creditor of a corporation seeks
to charge the directors, trustees, or other superintending officers
of a corporation, or the stockholders thereof, on account of any
liability created by law, he ma'y file his complaint for that
purpose in any common pleas court which possesses jurisdiction to enforce such liability.
"Se. 3260a. The court shall proceed thereon, as in other
cases, and, when necessary, shall cause an account to be taken
of the property and obligations due to and from such corporation, and may appoint one or ,more receivers.
"SEC. 3260b. If, on the coming in of the answer or upon

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
197 U. S.

397

Statement of the Case.

the taking of such account, it appears that such corporation
is insolvent, and has not sufficient property or effects to satisfy
such creditor, the court may proceed to ascertain the respective
liabilities of the directors, officers and stockholders, and enforce the same by its judgment, as in other cases.
"SEc. 3260c. In all cases in which the directors or other
officers of a corporation, or the stockholders thereof, are made
parties to an action in which a judgment is rendered, if the
property of such corporation is insufficient to discharge its
debts, the court shall give notice to non-resident stockholders,
as provided in sections 5048, 5049, 5050, 5051 or 5052 of the
Revised Statutes, and shall first proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and remaining unpaid on the
shares of stock held by him, or so much thereof as is necessary
to satisfy the debts of the company.
"SEC. 3260d. If the debts of the company remain unsatisfied, the court shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the directors or other officers and of the stockholders, and to adjudge the amount payable by each, and
enforce the judgment, as in other cases. The court may authorize and direct the receiver to prosecute such action in his
own name as receiver, as may be necessary, in other jurisdictions to collect the amount found due from any officer or
stockholder.
"SEC. 3260e. Whenever any action is brought against any
corporation, its directors or other superintending officers, or
stockholders, according to the provisions of this chapter, the
court, whenever it appears necessary or proper, may order
notice to be published, in such manner as it shall direct, requiring all the creditors of such corporation to exhibit their
claims and become parties to the action, within a reasonable
time, not less than six months from the first publication of
such order, and, in default thereof, to be precluded from all
benefit of the judgment which shall be rendered in such action,
and from any distribution which shall be made under such
judgment.

OCTOBER

TERM, 1904.

Argument for Appellant.

197 U. S.

"SEC. 3260/. Upon a final judgment in any such action
against an insolveint corporation, the court shall cause a just
and fair distribution of the property and assets of such corporation or the proceeds thereof to be made among its creditors.
"SECTION II. That said section 3260 be, and hereby is
repealed.
"SECTION III. This act shall apply to pending actions, and
shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage."
The court below sustained the -demurrer on the following
ground:
"It is thought that the question raised by this demurrer
should be decided upon the assumption that the action is the
one provided for by sec. 3260, Rev. Stat. Ohio, as it stood after
the amendment of 1894. Inasmuch as that section expressly
provides for an action jointly against all the stockholders, including such as are out of the jurisdiction or for other causes
cannot be served, and the complaint avers that there are
stockholders who have not been made parties, there is a
lack of parties defendant and the demurrer is sustained. If,
moreover, the amendments of the statute passed in 1900
are to be considered, the position of the demurrants is even
stronger. Manifestly this action is not the one thereby provided for."

Mr. Frederick C. McLaughlin, with whom Mr. Harvey
Scribner was on the brief, for appellant:
Article XIII, § 3, of the Ohio constitution is self-executing
to the extent of declaring a general contractual obligation and
a general rule as to property rights. Whitman v. Bank, 176
U. 'S. 559; Willis v. Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140; Ohio v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411; Brown v. Hitchcock, 36 Ohio St. 667;
Kirtley v. Holmes, 107 Fed. Rep. 1; Harpold v. Stobart, 46
Ohio St. 397.
Section 3260, Rev. Stat. Ohio, as originally enacted and as
amended in 1894, was'declaratory merely of rules of chancery

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
197 U. S.

399

Argument for Appellant.

practice long previously followed by Ohio courts. Umsted v.
Buskirk, 17 Ohio St. 113; Smith v. Newark &c. R. R. Co., 8
Ohio C. C. Rep. 583.
The remedy, therefore, is nothing more than the appropriate
remedy in equity. for the enforcement of a proportionate,
collateral liability and such remedy, from its very origin and
nature, is transitory. Kirtley v. Holmes, 107 Fed. Rep. 1, 5.
This general, contractual obligation is enforceable in any
United States Circuit Court having jurisdiction of the parties
indispensable to a decree. Const. U. S., Art. III, §§ 1, 2,
establishes the right to have it enforced where diverse citizenship exists. Smith v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S.398; Reynolds v.
Bank, 112 U. S.405i 410; Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13 Wall.
270, 286; Suydam v. Broadnax, 14 Pet. 67; Smith v. Reeves,
178. U. S. 442; Foster's Fed. Prac., 3d ed., §§ 6, 7.
The statutory origin of the obligation is immaterial. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.11; Whitman v. Bank, supra.
The United States Circuit Court can and will enforce it.
American File Co. v. Garrett, 110 U. S.288; Smith v. Railroad
Co., supra; the Federal courts in New York take judicial
notice of Ohio law. Owings v. Hull, 9 Peters, 607, 624; Hanley
v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 6, and cases cited. The Federal
courts will frequently enforce an obligation that the courts of
a State, in which it is sitting do not enforce. Barrow S. S. Co.
v. Kane, 170 U. S.100.
Consideration3 which have influenced certain state courts
in refusing to enforce this liability have no weight in a Federal
court, where jurisdiction is based upon diverse citizenship.
Hale v. Harden, 95 Fed. Rep. 747, 751; compare State Nat.
Bank v. Sayward, 91 Fed. Rep. 443, with Erickson v. Nesmith,
15 Gray, 221; N. H. Horse'Nail Co. v. Linden, 142 Massachusetts, 349; Post & Co. v. Railroad Co., 144 Massachusetts,
341.
Complainant seeks to enforce this liability precisely as it is
enforced in Ohio. Fourth Nat. Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S.
747, 758; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520; Slater v. Mex. Nat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

197 U. S

R. R., 194 U. S. 210; Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451; Harpold
v. Stobart, 46 Ohio St. 397.
An Ohio corporation may be found and sued iR the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
Yolk. St. Louis Railway v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127; Central
Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U. S. 129; Interior Construction Co.
v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160
U. S. 221, 229; Life Ins. Co. v. Woodworth, 111 U. S. 138, 146,
and cases cited.
Upon the certificate in this case the corporation is joined
and served and before the court.
This fact of joinder and service of the corporation distinguishes. this case from every, other in the books where
Federal courts have refused to enforce this liability extraterritorially.
All parties indispensable to a decree are before the court
and all limitations and conditions upon the right are complied
with.
No large question of judicial policy is involved.
The power of the Ohio legislature over the liability declared
by the constitution is limited to a reasonable control of an
adequate remedy for its enforcement in Ohio courts.
The decision of the court below resulted from an erroneous
legal presumption based upon the false premise that the
legislature created and controlled the right. Whitman v.
Ox. Bank, 28 C. C. A. 404.
The said requirements of § 3260, Rev. Stat. Ohio, do not
govern in a court of another jurisdiction unless they limit and
qualify the right declared by the Ohio constitution. The
lex loci contractus governs as to the substance or obligation of
a contract, while the lex fori governs the form of action or
procedure. Kent's Commentaries, 14th ed., 461, and cases
cited; R. C. Minor in 14 Harv. L. Rev. 262, and cases
cited.
This is true whether the origin of the liability be in the
statute or the common law and whether the remedy be stat-

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
197 U. S.

401

Argument for Respondents.

utory or otherwise. Dennick v. Railroad, and Davis v. Mills,
supra; Blair v. Newbegin, 65 Ohio St. 425.
Section 3260 does not limit or qualify the substantive right
declared by the constitution. It relates to form, not to substance.
Section 3260 is not literally the exclusive remedy for the
enforcement of stockholders' liability under Ohio law which
had accrued prior thereto. It is wholly inadequate against
non-resident stockholders. Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56.
It therefore violates the Constitution of the United States.
Hawthorn v. Calef, 2 Wall. 10. It is an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of legislative control over remedy. Davis v.
Mills, 194 U. S" 451, 456, 457. It violates Art. XIII, § 3,
Ohio constitution. It violates Art. 3, § 2, Constitution of the
United States. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Barron
v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186. It cannot be the exclusive remedy
against non-resident stockholders because it is no remedy
against them at all.
Every condition and limitation imposed upon the substantive right has been complied with and there is no defect
of parties defendant in equity. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How.
139; Ribon v. Railroad Co., 16 Wall. 446; Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591; U. S. Sup. Ct. Rules in Equity, 22,
47, 48.
The Ohio legislature neither created this liability nor prescribed. the remedy for its enforcement.
Mr. Lucius H. Beers and Mr. Joseph Fettretch, with whom
Alr. John G. Milburn, Mr. Arthur Cosby, Mr. Charles N.
Judson, and Mr. William B. Hale were on the brief, for respondents:
Whether or not a constitutional provision is self-executing
depends upon the intention of the framers. A provision will
be held to be solf-executing only where there is a manifest
intention that it 8h',al] go into immediate effect without the
atid of any ancillary legislation. 6 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law,
VOL. cxcv i -'2

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

197 U. S.

2d ed., 912; Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet. 449; Fusz v. Spaunhorst, 67 Missouri, 265; Morley v. Thayer, 3 Fed. Rep. 740.
Section 3 of Art. XII, Ohio Const., is not in terms selfexecuting. As to its construction by the Ohio legislature and
courts see Bank v.. Wright, 6 Ohio St. 318, 328; Ohio Convention Debates, 1850, vol. 1, pp. 369-427. These debates
can be referred to, State v. Kennon, 7 Ohio St. 546, 563, and
under Edwards' Lessee v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206, are entitled
to great weight. As to stockholders' liability in Ohio see also
State v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411; Ryder v. Fritchey, 49 Ohio
St. 285; Brown v. Hitchcock, 36 Ohio St. 676. As to construction of similar constitutional provisions in other States
see French v. Teschemaker, 24 California, 518; Jerman v.
Benton, 79 Missouri, 148; Agricultural Association v. Insurance
Co., 70 Alabama, 120; Woodworth v. Bowles, 61 Kansas, 569;
Tuttle v. Bank, 161 Illinois, 497; Marshall v. Sherman, 148
N. Y. 9; Bank v. Sayward, 86 Fed. Rep. 45; Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371; Willis v.
Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140, distinguished. And see also Platt
v. Wilmot, 193 U. S. 602, 612; Cooley's Const. Lirn., 7th ed.,
121 ; Barnes v. Wheaton 80 Hun (N. Y.), 8; Cleveland v. Kent,
87 Hun (N. Y.), 329; Nimick v. Iron Works, 25 W. Va. 184;
Henly v. Stevenson, 72 Pac. Rep. 518; Fowler v. Samson, 146
Illinois, 478.
The construction which has been placed on this clause of
the Ohio constitution by the highest courts of Ohio is controlling in this court. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 40; Post v.
Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; Butcher v. Cheshire R. R. Co., 125
U. S. 555, 581, 584; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 133;
Great Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532, distinguished.
The highest court of Ohio has held that section 3 of Article XIII of the Ohio constitution is not self-executing. Ohio
v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411; Ryder v. Fritchey, 49 Ohio St.
285; Bank v. Wright, 6 Ohio St. 318.
For other similar provisions see New York Const., 1846,
Art. VIII; Illinois Const., 1848, Art. X; Indiana Const., 1851,

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
i97 U.S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

Art. XI; North Carolina Const., 1868, Art. VIII; South Carolina, Art. XII,- §§ 4, 5; California Const., 1849, Art. IV, §§ 32,
36; Const., 1879, Art. XII; Missouri Const., 1865, Art. VIII,
§6; Coast., 1875, Art. XII, §9; Alabama Const., 1867, Art.
XIII; Const., 1875, Art. XIII, § 8; Kansas Const., 1858,
Art. XIV; Const., 1859, Art. XII; Nevada Const., 1864,
Art. VIII, § 3; West Virginia CoAst., 1872, Art. XI.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM,

The questions propounded by the Circuit Court of Appeals
are the following:
First. Whether Article 13, section 3, of the constitution of
Ohio is so far self-executing that it may be nforced outside
of the jurisdiction of said State without compliance with said
requirements of section 3260 of the Revised Statutes of said
State as amended in 1894.
Second. Whether Article 13, section 3, of the constitution
of Ohio is so far self-executing that it may be enforced outside
of the jurisdiction of said State without compliance with said
requirements of section 3260 of the Revised Statutes of said
State as amended in 1900.
The Counsel for the complainant contends that the article
of the Ohio constitution, above setr forth, is self-executing to

the extent of declaring the general contractual obligation and
the general rule as to property rights, and it is insisted that the
liability of the stockholders in the railway corporation may be
enforced by the courts of another jurisdiction without compliance with the requirements of any of the statutes which
have been passed by the legislature of Ohio in regard to the
enforcement of the liability provided for in the constitution.
These statutes, it is said, refer only to the form and mode of
procedure in local courts, and neither of them contains any
limitation or condition inposed upon the substantive right
declared by the constitution, as co tstrued and enforced by

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

the Ohio courts for many years prior to the statutory enactments.
We have not been referred to any decision of the Ohio Suprene Court directly involving the question whether the provision of the constitution referred to is self-executing or not.
If there were any such decision we should follow it. That court
has, however, regarded the liability of stockholders as statutory
in its nature, as is seen from its decisions in the cases hereinafter cited.
The question has arisen in some of the other States regarding this same provision, and it has been held to be not selfexecuting. Barnes v. Wheaton, 87 Supreme Court Reports
of New York (80 Hun, 8). In that case it was held by the
then General Term that it was obvious that the provision was
not self-executing, but its purpose was to confer upon the
legislature the power and impose upon it the duty of securing
dues from corporations by imposing upon the stockholders of
such cdrporations as are organized under the laws of that State
an individual liability, and by such other means as, in its discretion, it should deem proper, but limiting such power and
discretion by the provision that each stockholder should be
mnade liable to an amount at least equal to the amount of stock
held by him. This provision was not regarded as imposing
a liability independent of the statute, nor as conferring upon
the plaintiff any right to maintain the action then before the
court. It has been held substantially to the same effect in
Niniick & Co. v. Mingo Iron Works Co., 25 W. Va. 184.
But whether the constitutional provision might be regarded
as, to a certain extent, self-executing in the absence of any
statute on the subject, we find that the legislature of Ohio has
l)assed statutes to enforce such liability. The eases of Wright
v. McCormack, 17 Ohio St. 86, and Uiled v. Bw¢kirk, 17 Ohio
St. 113, were both brought under a statute enacted to provide
a method for enforcing the constitutional liability, and in the
former case the court speaks of the liability of the stockholders,
as a "statutory liability," and of the statute itself as a "statute

MIDDLETOWN BANK v. RAILWAY COMPANY.
197 U. S.

405

Opinion of the Court.

under which the liability 'arises." That was an early statute,
passed not long after the adoption of the constitutional provision, and for the purpose of executing it. 50 Ohio L. 296,
passed May 1, 1852. Wright v. McCormack was approved in
Umsted v. Buskirk, supra. Subsequent statutes were passed
for the same purpose of enforcing the liability of stockholders,
and those set out in the record not only definitely state the
liability, but give the procedure and provide the remedy in
order to enforce it. It will be seen that the constitutional
provision refers in terms to the securing of dues from corporations by the individual liaibility of stockholders and by such
other means as may be prescribed by law. The constitution
evidently looks to the legislaturei for providing means. A
statute which is passed in pursuance of such a provision and
which itself provides for the procedure and states the remedy,
even though imposing no limit or conditions in regard to such
liability other than such as are found in the constitutional
provision itself, is, nevertheless, a'statute providing a remedy
which is to be followed within the principle sustained by the
authorities cited below. The statute under such circumstances
may be said to so far provide fr the liability and to create the
remedy, as to make it necessary to follow its provisions and to
conform to the procedure provided for therein. See Pollard
v. Bailey, 20 Wall, 520, 526; Fourth National Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S.747, 756, 758; Evans v. Nellis, 187. U. S. 271;
Morley v. Thayer, 3 Fed. Rep. 737, Circuit Court, District of
Massachusetts; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Kent, 94 N. Y. Supreme Court Reports (87 1tun), 329; Nimick v. Mingo Iron
Works Co., supra. In Bank v. Frawklyn, supra, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for this court, aid: "In all the diversity
of opinion in the courts of the different States, upon the
question how far a liability, imposed upon stockholders in a
corporation by the law of the State which creates it, can be
pursued in a court held beyond the limits of that State, no
case has been found, in which such a liability has been enforced by any court, without a compliaince with the conditions

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

applicable to it under the legislative acts and judicial decisions
of the State which creates the corporation and imposes the
liability. To hold that it could be enforced without such
compliance would be to subject stockholders residing out of
the State to a greater burden than domestic stockholders."
In order to comply with the conditions of the statute of Ohio
it seems plain from the provisions of the statute that the action
must be brought in that State.
In the case now before us the complainant has paid no attention to the statutes of Ohio, so far as bringing suit in that State
is concerned, and therefore has not followed the provisions
contained in them. It has commenced no action in the State
of Ohio, but, on the contrary, assumes to ask the Federal Circuit Court in New York State to administer the relief asked
for in its bill, against stockholders who are residents of New
York, the same as if the suit had been commenced in Ohio.
This, we think, the complainant could not do. By the terms
of the Ohio statute, properly construed, the remedy must be
pursued in the courts of that State. The case of a plaintiff
failing to obtain satisfaction of his judgment by following,
in Ohio, the remedies given by the Ohio statute, is not before

us, and we need not determine the character of any other
reniedy, or where it may be enforced.
We therefore answer the first question in the negative. It
is unnecessary to answer the second question. The answer

will be certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

So ordered.

