OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

Congress, and against the protest of the French consul. Less
than one of the two months of imprisonment permitted by the
statute had expired when the defendant was discharged. The
order discharging him must be reversed and the defendant
remanded to imprisonment in a prison where prisoners under
sentence of a court of the United States may be lawfully committed, Rev. Stat. ยง 4081, subject to the jurisdiction of the
French consular authority of the port of San Francisco, but
such imprisonment must not exceed, when taken with the
former imprisonment of the defendant, the term of two months
in the aggregate.
Reversed, and remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CITY OF DAWSON v. COLUMBIA AVENUE SAVING
FUND, SAFE DEPOSIT, TITLE AND TRUST COM~
PANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 154. Argued January 26, 27, 1905.-Decided Mareh 27, 1905.

An arrangement of parties which is merely a contrivance between friends
to found jurisdiction on diverse citizenship in the Circuit Court will hot
avail, and when it is obvious that a party who is really on complainant's
side has been made a defendant for jurisdictional reasons, and for the
purpose of reopening in the United States courts a controversy already
decided in the state courts, the court will look beyond the pleadings
and arrange the parties according to their actual sides in the dispute.
the wrongful repudiation of, and refusal to pay, a contract debt by a city
may amount merely to a naked breach of contract, and in the absence of
any legislative authority affecting the contract or on which the refusal
to pay is based, the inere fact that the city. is a municipal corporation
does not give to its refusal the character of a law impairing the obliga-

DAWSON v. COLUMBIA TRUST COMPANY.
197-U. S.

, 179

Opinion of the Court.

tion of contracts or depriving a citizen of property without due process
of law, and give rise to a suit under the Constitution of the United States
within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles A. Douglass and Mr. Dupont Guerry, with whom
Mr. Homer Guerry was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Olin J. Wimberly, with whom Mr. John I., Hall was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought in the Circuit Court by the
-appellee, the Trust Company, as mortgagee of "the Dawson
Water Works Company, to restrain the city of Dawson from
taking measures to build a new set of wate. works, and to
compel it specifically to perform a contract made with the,
Water Works Company in 1890 to pay that company or its'
mortgagee a certain sum for the use of its' water for twenty.
years. The Trust Company is a Pennsylvania corporation,
and the only ground of jurisdiction for the bill as originally
filed was diversity of citizenship. The bill, after stating the
contract, set up a formal repudiation of the same by the city
on June 27, 1894, refusals to pay for the water from that time,
and attempts to collect taxes which by the contract were to
be satisfied by the furnishing of water, but alleged a continued
use of the water by the city. It further stated the calling of
an election for December 12, 1894, to see if the city should issue
bonds to erect or buy water works or electric lights, a vote in
favor of the issue, an issue of ten thousand dollars for the
erection of an electric light plant, and a present intent, to sell
the residue for the purpose of erecting new water works. It
also alleged that the Water Works Company, recognizing the
plaintiff's right to be paid the rentals for the water in the
events which had happened, which had made the, Water Works

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

Company unable to pay the interest on the mortgage, had
yielded to the plaintiff's demand that it should collect the
rentals, and that the plaintiff had notified the city and had
made demand, but that the city refused to pay. Other details are immaterial. The Water Works Company was made
a party defendant and was served with process. An answer
was served, although not filed, by the defendants other than
the Water Works Company, setting up among other things
that the Water Works Company was the real plaintiff, and
was made defendant solely to avoid the effect of a decision by
the Supreme Court of the State in a suit by the Water Works
Company against the city to the effect that the contract relied
on was void. 106 Georgia, 696. The answer on this ground
denied the jurisdiction of the court. After service of this
answer the bill was amended so as to allege that the acts of
the city impaired the obligation of its contract, and deprived
the plaintiff of its property without due process of law, contrary to the Constitution of the United States. A prayer was
added also that the Water Works Company be decreed to perform its contract with the city, that thereby the rights of
bondholders might be saved. The further proceedings do not
need mention. They ended in a decree in accordance with
the prayer, and the city appealed to this court. Davis &
Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 216.
We are of opinion that the bill should have been dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. The Water Works Company is admitted to have been a necessary party, and it, like the defendant city, was a Georgia corporation. It was made a defendant, but the court will look beyond the pleadings and arrange
the parties according to their sides in the dispute. When that
is done it is obvious that the Water Works Company is on the
plaintiff's side and was made a defendant solely for the purpose
of reopening in the United States Court a controversy which
had been decided against it in the courts of the State. There
was a pretense of asking relief against it, as we have stated,
but no foundation for the prayer was laid in the allegations

DAWSON v. COLUMBIA TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

181

Opinion of the Court.

of the bill. On the contrary, it appears from those allegations
that the Water Works Company insisted on its contract with
the city, and did everything in its power to carry the contract out. It also recognized the plaintiff's right to receive
the rentals and yielded to its demand. No difference or collision of interest or action is alleged or even suggested. If we
assume that the plaintiff is more than an assignee of the city's
contract to pay, which we do not intimate, still, when the
arrangement of the parties is merely a contrivance between
friends for the purpose of founding a jurisdiction which otherwise would not exist, the device cannot be allowed to succeed.
See Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, 469; Hawes v. Oakland, 104
U. S. 450, 453; Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537, 541; Doctor v.

Harrington, 196 U. S. 579. Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 5.
18 Stat. 470.
The attempt by an afterthought to give jurisdiction by
setting up constitutional rights must fail also. The bill presents a naked case of breach of contract. The firt step of
the city was to repudiate the contract and to refuse to pay.
Whatever it may have done subsequently, its wrong, if, contrary to the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, there
was a wrong, was complete then. The repudiation and refusal were kept up until the bill was filed and the other acts
were subsequent, subordinate to and in aid of them. The
mere fact that the city was a municipal corporation does not
give to its refusal the character of a law impairing the obligatidn of contracts or deprive a citizen of property without due

process of law.

That point was-decided in St. Paul Gas

Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 150.

Undoubtedly the decisions on the two sides of the lines are
very near to each other. But the case at bar is governed by
the one which we have cited and not by Walla Walla v. Walla,
Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, which is cited and distinguished

in St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul. In Vicksburg WaterWorks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, the city had made a
contract with the water works company, and afterwards a

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

law was passed authorizing the city to build new works. The
city, acting under this law, denied liability, and took steps to
build the works, whereupon the water works company filed
its bill, alleging the law to be unconstitutional. The bill was
held to present a case under the Constitution. In the case
before us there was no legislation subsequent to the contract,
and it is not even shown that there is color of previous legisldtion for the city's acts. Those acts are alleged to be unlawful,
and the allegation would be maintained by showing that they
were not warranted by the laws of the State. See Hamilton
Gas Light Co. v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S. 258, 266; Lehigh
Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S.388, 392. We repeat that something more than a mere refusal of a municipal corporation to
perform its contract is necessary to make a law impairing the
obligation of contracts or otherwise to give rise to a suit under
the Constitution of the United States. The decree of the
Circuit Court must be reversed and the cause remanded with
instructions to dismiss the bill. Newburuport Water Co. v.
Newburyport, 193 U. S.561, 576.
Decree reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

dissented.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been present at the argument, took no part in the decision.

