OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

the owners of the bed of a stream to the center of the channel;
that the Government, as original proprietor, has the right to
survey and sell any lands, including islands in a river or other
body of water; that if it omits to survey an island in a stream
and refuses, when its attention is called to the matter, to make
any survey thereof, no citizen can overrule the action of the
Department, assume that the island ought to have been surveyed, and proceed to occupy it for the purposes of homestead or preemption entry. In such a case the rights of
riparian proprietors are to be preferred to the claims of the
settler.
We see no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, and it is
Affirmed.

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 51. Argued November 4,1904.-Decided April 10, 1905.

The treaty with Russia concerning Alaska, instead of exhibiting, as did
the treaty with Spain respecting the Philippine 'Islands, the determination to reserve the question of the status of the acquired territory for
ulterior action by Congress, manifested a contrary intention to admit
the inhabitants of the ceded territory to the enjoyment of citizenship,
and expressed the purpose to incorporate the territory into the United
States.
Under the treaty with Russia ceding Alaska and the subsequent legislation
of Congress, Alaska has been incorporated into the United States and
the Constitution is applicable to that Territory, and under the Fifth and
Sixth Amendments Congress cannot deprive one there accused of a misdemeanor of trial by a common law jury, and that § 171 of the Alaska
Code, 31 Stat. 358, in so far as it provides that in trials for misdemeanors six persons shall constitute a legal jury, is unconstitutional
and void.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. R. W. Jennings and Mr. W. E. Crews for plaintiff in
error submitted:
Section 171, p. 179, Carter's Annotated Alaska Codes, providing that in trials for misdemeanors six persons shall constitute a legal jury, was taken verbatim from the Oregon Code,
with the proviso added.
That portion of § 171 authorizing a trial by a jury of six
persons is void, because it deprives a person of the right of
trial by a jury of twelve competent, impartial men as guaranteed to every citizen by the provisions of the Constitution,
and Congress has no power under the Constitution to pass an
act authorizing a trial in a criminal case by a jury of less than
twelve men.
The terms "jury" and "trial by jury" are and always have
been well known in the language of the law. They were used
at the adoption of the Constitution, and always it is believed
before that time; and almost since in a single sense. Cooley's
Const. Lim. 391; 1 Bishop Crim. Procedure, §§ 764 et seq;
Flint River Steamboat Co. v. Foster, 5 Georgia, 195; Stoppe v.
Commonwealth, 74 Pa. St. 458; Wharton's Law Diet., Title
"Challenge" U. S. Crim. Law (Lewis), 611; Worke v. State,
2 Ohio St. 277; People v. Bodine, 1 Denio, 304; Freeman v.
People, 4 Denio, 34; Wyheimer v. People, 15 N. Y. 424; Cancemei v. People, 16 N. Y. 504; People v. Williams, 6 California,
207; Cooley v. State, 38 Texas, 637; Ingersoll v. Wilson, 2
W. Va. 59; Nevada v. McClare, 2 Nevada, 42, 60.
The provisions of the Constitution relating to the right of
the trial by jury in suits at common law apply to the Territories of the United States. Webster v. Reid, 2 How. 437, 460;
Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 464; Springville v. Thomas,
166 U. S. 707; Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154;
Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 548; Thompson v. Utah, 170
U. S. 343, citing Mormon Church Case, 136 U. S. 1, 44; Banc v.
Yankton, 101 U. S. 129; Murphy v. Ramsay, 114 U. $. 15, 44.
Such an act can not be sustained as a police regulation; for, as
such, it would be equally obnoxious. Citizens of Alaska are

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

guaranteed the constitutional right of a trial by jury. They
are under the direct and complete jurisdiction of the United
States. The courts are clothed with the power and jurisdiction of Circuit and District Courts of the United States. Section
367, p. 432, Alaska Code; Art. 3, Treaty of Cession between
United States and Russia.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Robb for the United States:
Cases cited by plaintiff in error do not apply as the Constitution has not been extended over the Territory as it had been
in the cases cited. This case is controlled by Hawaii v.
Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138;
and see Downes v. Bidwell, opinion Brown, J., 182 U. S. 280.
As to Art. 3 of the treaty with Russia it was intended to
extend, and no doubt did extend, to the civilized inhabitants
of the Territory certain fundamental attributes and privileges
of American citizenship, but it will hardly be contended that
it was thereby intended to extend all the provisions of the
Constitution to this barren and desolate region, peopled as it
was by savages and an alien race, wholly out of sympathy
with our customs and institutions.
As to legislation regarding Alaska see §§ 2, 9, 14, 23 Stat. 24;
Crim. Code, 'Alaska, March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1253; Act of June 6,
1900, 31 Stat. 321; § 1891, Rev. Stat., does not cover Alaska
as it is not an organized Territory. And see Standard and
Century Dictionaries, Sub "Territory."
The Coquitlam, 163
U. S. 346, and Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486, (1o not
decide that Alaska is organized Territory. And see In re
Lane, 135 U. S. 443.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was indicted for violating section 127
of the Alaska Code, prohibiting the keeping of a disreputable
house and punishing the offense by a fine or imprisonment in
the county jail.
As stated in the bill of exceptions, when the case was called

RASSMUSSEN v,. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the cburt announced "that the cause would be tried before a
jury composed of six jurors," in accordance with section 171
of the Code for Alaska adopted by Congress, wherein, among
other things, it was provided as follows (31 Stat. 321, 359):
"That hereafter in trials for misdemeanors six persons shall
constitute a legal jury." To this announcement by the court
an exception was duly preserved. A jury of six persons was
then empanelled, when the objection was renewed and a
demand made for a common law jury, which was refused, and
an exception was again taken.
To a verdict and judgment of conviction this writ is prosecuted directly to this court, reliance for a reversal being had
on the violation of the Constitution alleged to have resulted
from the trial of the case by a jury of six persons and upon
other errors of law which, it is asserted, the court committed
in the course of the trial.
At the threshold of the case lies the constitutional question
whether Congress had power to deprive one accused in Alaska
of a misdemeanor of trial by a common law jury, that is to
say, whether the provision of the act of Congress in question
was repugnant to the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
At the bar the Government did not deny that offenses of
the character of the one here proecuted could only be tried
by a common law jury, if the Sixth Amendment governed.
The Government, moreover, did not dispute the obvious and
fundamental truth that the Constitution of the United States
is dominant where applicable. The validity of the provision
in question is therefore sought to be sustained upon the proposition that the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution did not
apply to Conigress in legislating for Alaska. -And this' rests
upon two contentions which we proceed separately td consider.
1. Alaska was not incorporated into the United States, and
therefore the Sixth Amendment did not control Congress in legislating for Alaska.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

If the premise, that is, the status of Alaska, be conceded,
the conclusion deduced from it is established by the previous
rulings of this court. In Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138,
the question was whether the Sixth Amendment was controlling upon Congress in legislating for the Philippine Islands.
Applying the principles which caused a majority of the judges
who concurred in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, to think
that the uniformity clause of the Constitution was inapplicable
to Porto Rico, and following the ruling announced in Hawaii
v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, it was decided that, whilst by the
treaty with Spain the Philippine Islands had come under the
sovereignty of the United States and were subject to its control as a dependency or possession, those Islands had not been
incorporated into the United States as a part thereof, and
therefore Congress, in legislating concerning them, was subject only to the provisions of the Constitution applicable to
territory occupying that relation. The power to acquire territory without incorporating it into the United States as an
integral part thereof, as we have said, was sustained upon the
reasoning expounded in the opinion of three, if not of four,
of the judges who concurred in the judgment in Downes v.
Bidwell, that reasoning being in effect adopted in the Dorr case
as the basis of the ruling there made, the court saying (p. 143:)
"Until Congress shall see fit to incorporate territory ceded
by treaty into the United States, we regard it as settled by
that decision (Downes v. Bidwell) that the territory is to be
governed under the power existing in Congress to make laws
for such territories and subject to such constitutional restrictions upon the powers of that body as are applicable to
the situation."
And in view of the status of the Philippine Islands it was
decided that the Sixth Amendment was not applicable to those
Islands, and therefore Congress, when it legislated concerning
them, was not controlled by the provisions of that Amendment.
It would serve no useful purpose to rebxpress the reasons supporting this conclusion, and we content ourselves with quoting

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the summing up made by the court in the opinion in the Dorr
case, as follows (p. 149):
"We conclude that the power to govern territory, implied
in the right to acquire it, and given to Congress in the Constitution in Article IV, §3, to whate'ver other limitations it may be
subject, the extent of which must be decided as questions
arise, does not require that body to enact for ceded territory,
not made a part of the United States by Congressional action,
a system of laws which shall include the right of trial by jury,
and that the Constitution does not, without legislation and of
its own force, carry such right to territory so situated."
We are brought then to determine whether Alaska has been
incorporated into the United States as a part thereof, or is
simply held, as the Philippine Islands are held, under the
sovereignty of the United States as a possession or dependency.
Concerning the test to be applied to determine whether in a
particular case Acquired territory has been incorporated into
and forms a part of, the United States, we do not deem it necessary to review the general subject, again contenting ourselves by quoting a brief passage from the opinion in Dorr v.
United States, summing up the reasons which controlled in
determining that the Philippine Islands were not incorporated,
viz. (p. 143):
"If the treaty-making power could incorporate territory
into the United States without Congressional action, it is apparent that the treaty with Spain, ceding the Philippines to the
United States, carefully refrained from so doing; for it is expressly provided that (Article IX) 'the civil rights and political
status of the native inhabitants of the territories hereby ceded
to the United States shall be determined by the Congress.'
In this language it is clear that it was the intention of the
framers of the treaty to reserve to Congress,-so far as it could
be constitutionally done, a free hand in dealing with these
newly-acquired possessions.
"The legislation upon the subject shows that not only has
Congress hitherto refrained from incorporating the Philippines

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

into the United States, but in the act of 1902, providing for
temporary civil government, 32 Stat. 691, there is express
provision that section eighteen hundred and ninety-one of the
Revised Statutes of 1878 shall not apply to the Philippine
Islands."
This brings us to consider the treaty by which Alaska was
acquired and the action of Congress concerning that acquisition, for the purpose of ascertaining whether within the criteria
referred to in Downes v. Bidwell and adopted and applied in
Dorr v. United States, Alaska was incorporated into the United
States.
The treaty concerning Alaska, instead of exhibiting, as did
the treaty .especting the Philippine Islands, the determination
to reserve the question of the status of the acquired territory
for ulterior action by Congress, manifested, a contrary intention, since it is therein expressly declared, in Article 3, that:
"The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be admitted
to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities
of citizens of the United States; and shall be maintained and
protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and
religion."
This declaration, although somewhat changed in phraseology, is the equivalent, as pointed out in Downes v. Bidwell,
of the formula employed from the beginning to express the
purpose to incorporate acquired territory into the United
States, especially in the absence of other provisions showing
an intention to the contrary. And it was doubtless this fact
conjoined with the subsequent legislation of Congress which
led to the following statement concerning Alaska made in the
opinion of three, if not four, of the judges who concurred in
the judgment of affirmance inDownes v. Bidwell (p. 335):
"Without referring in detail to the acquisition from Russia
of Alaska, it suffices to say that that treaty also contained
provisions for incorporation and was acted upon exactly in
accord',with the practical construction applied in the case of
.the acquisitions from Mexico as just stated."

RASSMUSSEN ?,. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Presumably it was also a consideration of the character of
the rights conferred by the treaty by which Alaska was acquired, and the legislation of Congress concerning that Territory, to which we shall hereafter refer, which caused Mr. Justice Gray, in his concurring opinion in Downes v. Bidwell,
to say (p. 345):
"The cases now before the court do not touch the authority
of the United States over the Territories, in the strict and
technical sense, being those which lie within the United States,
as bounded by the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the Dominion
of Canada and the Republic of Mexico, and the Territories of
Alaska and Hawaii, but they relate to territory in the broader
sense, acquired by the United States by war with a foreign
State."
That Congress, shortly following the adoption of the treaty
with Russia, clearly contemplated the incorporation of Alaska
into the United States as a part thereof, we think plainly
results from the act of July 20, 1868, concerning internal
revenue taxation, c. 186, section 107, 15 Stat. 125, 167, and
the act of July 27, 1868, c. 273, exten(ling the laws of the
United States relating to customs, commerce and navigation
over Alaska and establishing a collection district therein.
15 Stat. 240. And this is fortified by subsequent action oj
Congress, which it is unnecessary to refer to.
Indee(l, both before and since the decision in Downes v.
Bidwell the status of Alaska as an incorporated Territory was
and has been recognized by the action and decisions of this
court: By the sixth section of the judiciary act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 826, it was made the duty of this court to assign
the several Territories of the United States to particular circuits;
and in execution of this law this court, by an ordier pronulgated
May 11, 1891, assigned the Territory of Alaska to the ninth
judicial circuit. Steaner Coqu ilin v. United Stales, 163 U. S.
346. That ea.se was a suit in a(hniiralty, brought by the I nitled
States in the District Com'l of Alaska for the forfeitire of the
steamer Coquitlam, because of a violation of the revenue laws

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

of the United States. From a decree rendered in favor of the
United States an appeal was prosecuted to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The United States challenged
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the
grounds: 1. That the District Court of Alaska was not a District Court within the meaning of the sixth section of the
judiciary act of 1891, and was not a District Court belonging
to the Ninth Circuit; 2. That the District Court of Alaska was
not the Supreme Court of a Territory within the meaning of
the order of this court. The Circuit Courts of Appeal certified
the question of jurisdiction. After fully reviewing the legislation of Congress relating to Alaska and stating the general
appellate power of the Circuit Court of, Appeal over judgments and decrees of the District and Circuit Courts, it was
decided that under the authority granted to the Circuit Courts
of Appeal by the fifteenth section of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891, to review judgments of the Supreme Court of
anyTerritory assigned to such circuit by this court, the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit possessed appellate
jurisdiction over the cause. In the course of the opinion it
was declared (p. 352):
"Alaska is one of the Territories of the United States. It
was so designated in that order (referring to the order of this
court assigning to the ninth circuit) and has always been so
regarded. And the court established by the act of 1884 is the
court of last resort within the limits of that Territory. It is,
therefore, in every substantial sense the Supreme Court of
that Territory."
In Binns v. United States, 194 U. S.486, the question was
this: The penal code for Alaska imposed certain license taxes.
The plaintiff in rror was convicted for not paying such a tax,
and the case was brought to this court on the contention that
the act of Congress levying the tax was repugnant to the clause
of the Constitution requiring uniformity throughout the United
States, as licenses of the character complained of were imposed
only in Alaska. After referring to the statements concerning

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Alaska contained in the concurring opinions in Downes v. Bidwell, the one written by Mr. Justice Gray and the other by
Mr. Justice White, and after approvingly citing the passage
from the Coquitlam case above referred to, the court declared
it to be settled that Alaska had been undoubtedly incorporated
into the United States, and hence conceded that the license
complained of was invalid if levied by Congress under the general grant in the Constitution of the power of taxation. The
legislation in question was, however, sustained on the exceptional ground that Congress had therein merely exerted its
authority as a local legislature for Alaska.
It follows, then, from the text of the treaty by which Alaska
was acquired, from the action of Congress thereunder and the
reiterated decisions of this court, that the proposition that
Alaska is not incorporated into and a part of the United States
is devoid of merit, and therefore the doctrine settled as to
unincorporated territory is inapposite and lends no support
to the contention that Congress in legislating for Alaska had
authority to violate the express commands of the Sixth Amendment.
This brings us to the second proposition, which is2. That even if Alaska was incorporated into the United
States, as it was not an organized Territory, therefore the provisions of the Sixth Amendment were not controlling on Congress
when legislating for Alaska.
We do not stop to demonstrate from original considerations
the unsoundness of this contention and its irreconcilable conflict with the essential principles upon which our constitutional
system of government rests. Nor do we think it is required to
point out the inconsistency which would arise between various
provisions of the Constitution if the proposition was admitted,
or the extreme extension on the one hand' and the undue
limitation on the other of the powers of Congress which would
be occasioned by conceding it. This is said, because, in our
opinion, the unsoundness of the proposition is conclslely
established by a long line of decisions. Webster v' Reid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

11 How. 437;1Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145; Callan v.
Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; American Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 166
U. S. 464; Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707; Thompson v.
Utah, 170 U. S. 343; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1;
Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349.
The argument by which the decisive force of the eases just
cited is sought to be escaped is that as' when the cases were
decided there was legislation of Congress extending the Constitution to the District of Columbia or to the particular
territory to which a case may have related, therefore the
decisions must be taken to have proceeded alone upon the
statutes and not upon the inherent application of the provisions of the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Amendments to the
District of Columbia or to an incorporated Territory. And,
upon the assumption that the cases are distinguishable from
the present one upon the basis just stated, the argument
proceeds to insist that the Sixth Amendment does not apply
to the Territory of Alaska, because section 1891 of the Revised
Statutes only extends the Constitution to the organized Territories, in which, it is urged, Alaska is not embraced.
Whilst the premise as to the existence of legislation declaring the extension of the Constitution to the Territories with
which the cases were respectively concerned is well founded,
the conclusion drawn from that fact is not justified. Without
attempting to examine in detail the opinions in the various
cases, in our judgment it clearly results from them that they
substantially rested upon the proposition that where territory
was a part of the United States the inhabitants thereof were
entitled to the guarantees of the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Amendments, and that the act or acts of Congress purporting
to extend the Constitution were considered as declaratory
merely of a result which. existed independently by the inherent operation of the Constitution. It is true that in some
of the opinions both the application of the Constitution and
the statutory provisions declaring such application were referred to, but in others no reference to such statutes was made,

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and. the cases proceeded upon a line of reasoning, leaving room
for no other view than that the conclusion of the court was
rested upon the self-operative application of the Constitution.
Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S.'707; Thompson v. Utah, 170
U. S.3;3; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1; Black v.
Jackson, 177 U. S. 349.
And this result of the cases will be made clear by a brief
reference to some of the opinions. In Thompson v. Utah,
considering a law of the State of Utah, which provided that a
jury in a criminal cause should consist of only eight persons,
the statute was held -to be ex post facto and void in its application to felonies committed before the Territory became a
State, "because, in respect of such crimes, the Constitution
of the United States gave the accused, at the time of the commission of his offense, the right to be tried by a jury of twelve
persons, and made it impossible to deprive him of his liberty
except by the unanimous verdict of such a jury."
In Springville v. Thomas it was contended that the territorial
legislature of Utah was empowered by Congress, in the organic
act of the Territory, to dispense with unanimity of the jurors
in rendering a verdict in a civil case. The court said (p. 708):
"In our opinion the Seventh Amendment secured unanimity
in finding a verdict as an essential feature of trial by jury in
common law cases, and the act of Congress could not impart
the power to change the constitutional rule, and could not be
treated as attempting to do so."
Again, in Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1, no reference whatever being made to the statute of February 21, 1871,
extending the provisions of the Constitution to the District
of Columbia (15 Stat. 419),'it was declared (p. 5): " It is beyond
doubt, at the present day, that the provisions of the Constitution of the United States securing the right of trial by jury,
whether in civil or criminal cases, are applicable to the District of Columbia.."
And in Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S.349, speaking of.a law.
of the Territory of Oklaloma, it was said (p. 363):

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN, J., concurring.

197 U. S.

"And, it also fails to recognize the provisions of the Seventh
Amendment securing the right of trial by jury in 'suits at
common law,' where the value in controversy exceeds twenty
dollars. That amendment, so far as it secures the right of
trial by jury, applies to judicial proceedings in the Territories
of the United States, Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, 460;
American Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 464, 466; Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707. So that a court of a Territory
authorized as Oklahoma was to pass laws not inconsistent with
the Constitution of the United States, 26 Stat. 81, 84, c. 182,
§ 6, could not proceed in a Icommon law' action'a if it were
a suit in equity and determine by mandatory injunction'rights
for the protection or enforcement of which there was .a plain
and adequate remedy at law according to the established
distinctions between law and equity,"
As it conclusively results from the foregoing considerations
that the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution was applicable
to Alaska, and as of course being applicable it was controlling
upon Congress in legislating for Alaska, it folloWs ,that the
provision of the act of Congress under consideration depriving
persons accused of a misdemeanor in Alaska of a right to trial
by a common law jury, was repugnant to the Constitution and
void. Having disposed of the constitutional question, we
deem it unnecessary to review the other alleged errors.
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and grant a
new trial.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

concurring.

My views in reference to what are called the Insular Questions have been fully expressed in the opinions filed by me in
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 375;-Hawaii v. Mankichi,
190 U. S. 197, 226; Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, 154.
I adhere to what has been said in those opinions, and do not

'RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STA'TES.
197 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring.

care to restate here the grounds upon which I proceeded in
former cases.
The particular question arising in the present case is whether
that section of the act of Congress of June 6, 1900, c. 786,
relating to Alaska, which provides ''that hereafter in trials
for misdemeanors six persons shall constitute a legal jury,"
is consistent with the Constitution of the United States. I
content myself in this case with stating only the general
.reasons for the conclusion which I have reached on that question.
Immediately upon the ratification in 1867 of the treaty by
which Alaska was acquired from Russia, that Territory, as I
think, came under the complete, sovereign jurisdiction and authority of the United States, and, without any formal action
on the part of Congress in recognition or enforcement of the
treaty, and whether Congress wished such a result or iot, the inhabitants of that Territory became at once entitled to the
benefit of all the guarantees found in the Constitution of the
United States for the protection of life, liberty, and property.
After such ratification no person clarged with the commission of a crime against the United States in that Territory could
be legally tried therefor otherwise than by what this court has
adjudged to be the jury of the Constitution.
The constitutional requirement that "the trial of all crimes,
except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury" means, as
this court has adjudged, a trial by the historical, common law
jury of twelve persons, and applies to all crines against the
United States committed in any territory, however acquired,
over which, for purposes of government, the United States has
sovereign dominion.
No tribunal or person can exercise authority involving life
or liberty, in any territory of the United States, organized or
unorganized, except in harmony with the Constitution.
Congress cannot suspend the operation of the Constitution
* in any territory after it has come under the sovereign authority
6f the United States, nor, by any 9ifirmnative enactment, or
vox,. cxcwi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN, J., concurring.

197 U. S.

by mere non-action, can Congress prevent the Constitution
from being the supreme law for any peoples subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States.
The power conferred upon Congress to make needful rules
and regulations respecting the Territories of the United States
does not authorize Congress to make any rule or regulation
inconsistent with the Constitution or violative of 'any right
secured by that instrument.
The proposition that a people subject to the full authority
of the United States for purposes of government, may, under
any circumstances, or for any period of time, long or short, be
governed, as Congress pleases to ordain, without regard to the
Constitution, is, in my judgment, inconsistent with the whole
theory of our institutions.
If the Constitution does not become the supreme law in a
Territory acquired by treaty, and.whose inhabitants are under
the dominion of the United States, until Congress, in some
distinct form, shall have expressed its will to that effect, it
would necessarily follow that, by positive enactment, or simply
by non-action, Congress, under the theory of "incorporation,"
and although a mere creature of the Constitution, could forever
withhold from the inhabitants of such Territory the benefit of
the guaranties of life, liberty and property as set forth in the
Constitution. I cannot assent to any such doctrine. I oannot
agree that the supremacy of the Constitution depends upon the
will of Congress.
As these are my views upon the underlying questions presented by the record, I cannot concur in all the reasoning in
the opinion.of the court. But I entirely concur in the judgment holding the act of Congress in question to be void. I do
so, not upon the ground that Alaska had been previously
"incorporated" into the United States by the legislation of
Congress, but upon the ground that the right of the accused
to a trial by the jury of 'the Constitution became complete
immediately upon the acquisition of Alaska by treaty, and
before any legislation upon the subject by Congress-indeed,

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

BROWN., J, concurring.

without any power in Congress to add to or impair or destroy
that right.
MR. JUSTICE BRoWN concurring.
I am disposed to concur in the conclusion of the court upon
the ground that, by the treaty of cession with Russia, it was
provided that "the inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be
admitted to enjoy all the rights, advantages and immunities
of citizens of the United States; and shall be maintained and
protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and
religion." I am inclined to think, though with some doubt,
that those words include a right to a trial by a jury, as understood among us from the adoption of the Constitution. I certainly should not dissent if the case were put upon that ground.
The tenor of the opinion, however, is such that I should be
doing an' injustice to myself if I failed to express my views
upon the doctrine of incorporation. My position regarding
the applicability of the Constitution to newly-acquired territory is contained in the opinion delivered, by me in Downes v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244. It is simply that the Constitution does
not apply to territories acquired by treaty until Congress has
so declared, and that in the meantime, under its power to
regulate the Territories, it may deal with them regardless of
the Constitution, except so far as concerns the natural rights
of their inhabitants to life, liberty and property,
A different view, however, was expressed in a concurring
opinion by Mr. Justice White, to the effect that when Congress
"incorporated" territory into the United States it resulted
that in governing such territory "all the limitations of the
Constitution which are applicable to Congress in exercising
this authority necessarily limit its power on this subject. It
follows also that every provision of the Constitution which is
applicable to the Territories is also controlling therein. .
And the determination of what particular provision of the
Constitution is applicable, generally speaking, in all cases,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BROWN,

J., concurring.

197 U. S.

involves an inquiry into the situation of the territory, and its
relations to the United States." The question was thus briefly
stated: "Had Porto Rico, at the time of the passage of the act
in question, been incorporated into and become an integral
part of the United States?" If it had, the inference was that
the Constitution applied in all its force.
This, however, was not the opinion of the court; it was
certainly not the opinion of the Justice who announced the
conclusion and judgment of the court; it was wholly disclaimed
by the four dissenting Justices, who held that the Constitution
applied the moment the territory was ceded and became the
property of the United States, and that no act of incorporation
was necessary. It was simply the individual opinion of three
members of the court. The point was not pressed upon our
attention in the briefs or arguments of counsel in that case.
It is but faintly suggested in the briefs in this case. It has
never since that time received the endorsement of this court,
and in my opinion is wholly unnecessary to the disposition
of this case.
My own view is, and has been, that Congress in dealing with
newly-acquired territory is unfettered by the Constitution,
unless it formally or by implication extends the Constitution
to it; and that it may accept a cession of territory, institute a
temporary government there, as it has done in a large number
of instances, without thereby extending the Constitution over
it. In the general act, Rev. Stat. see.. 1891, Congress did
declare that "the Constitution and all laws of the United
States which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same
force and effect within all the organized Territories, and in
every Territory hereafter organized, as elsewhere within the
United States." If the act of May 17, 1884, providing a civil
government for Alaska, 23 Stat. 24, be regarded as organizing
a Territory there, it would follow that such Territory at once
fell within Rev. Stat. sec. 1891, and the Constitution was extended to it without further action. The first article declares
that Alaska "shall constitute a civil and judicial district, the

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED S'TATES.
197 U. S.

BROWN, J., concurring.

government of which shall be organized and administered as
hereinafter provided." Had the opinion treated the Territory
as organized under this act, I should not have dissented from
this view, since section 1891 would have applied to it.
Congress did undoubtedly provide a permanent civil government for Alaska by the act of June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 321, but
it evidently (lid not regard the Constitution as extended to it
by any previous act, since it provided in section 171 for trials
of misdemeanors by a jury of six.
There are so many difficulties connected with the applicability of the Constitution that it has seemed to me that the
only true test was whether Congress intended to apply it or
not in the particular case. When is a Territory incorporated
so as to make the Constitution applicable in all its provisions?
That some action on the part of Congress is necessary to extend the Constitution to the Territories was settled in Downes
v. Bidwell, but shall such action be direct or may it be indirect
by way of incorporation? May Congress, in organizing or
incorporating a Territory, restrict the application of the Constitution to it, or must it give it all? What is an organized
as distinguished from an incorporated Territory? Does not
the acceptance of a cession of territory and the appointment
of a civil governor work an incorporation of the territory as
territory of the United States? If the acceptance of territory
as territory of the United States be not an incorporation, what
language is necessary to effect that result? Apparently, acceptance of the territory is insufficient in the opinion of the
court in this case, since the result th"at Alaska is incorporated
into the United States is reached, not through the treaty with
Russia, or through the establishmeit of, a civil government
there, but from the act of July 20, 1868, concerning internal
revenue taxation, and the act of July 27, 1868, extending the
laws of the United States relating to the customs, comnmeree
and navigation over Alaska and establishing a collection district there. Certain other acts are cited, notably the judiciary
act'of March 3,1891, making it the duty of this court to assign

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BROWN, J., concurring.

197 U. S.

the several Territories of the United States to particular circuits. But no mention is made either of the act of May 17,
1884, providing a civil government for A'laska or the act of
June 6, 1900, making further provision for a civil government
and establishing a complete code of laws. These seem to me
the vital acts upon the status of Alaska; yet they are completely ignored in the opinion of the court, and the fact of
incorporation is sought to be established by what seem to me
remote inferences from immaterial statutes. Indeed I regard
the whole theory of the extension of the Constitution by the
incorporation of territory as a new departure in Federal jurisprudence, and that the true answer to the question whether
the Constitution applies to a Territory is to be found in the fact
whether Congress has extended the Constitution to it or not.
That the mere act of incorporating territory into the United
States does not of its own force carry the Constitution there,
regardless of the wishes of Congress, is evident from tho case
of Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, wherein it was held that,
notwithstanding the island had been annexed to the United
States "as a part of the territory of the United States, and
subject to the sovereign dominion thereof," yet it was possible
for Congress to declare that "the municipal legislation of the
Hawaiian Islands not enacted for the fulfillment of the treaties
so extinguished, and not inconsistent with this joint resolution, nor contrary to the Constitution of the United States nor
to any existing treaty of the United States, shall remain in
force until the Congress of the United States shall otherwise
determine."
While the government provided by this resolution was,
temporary in its character, and a mere continuance of existing laws, the act itself was as complete an incorporation of the
islands as it was possible for language to make it. The resolution declared that "said cession" of the Republic of Hawaii
"is accepted, ratified and confirmed, and that the said Hawaiian Islands and their dependencies be, and they are hereby,
annexed as a part of the territory of the United States, and are

RASSMUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

BRowN, J., concurring.

subject to the sovereign dominion thereof."

In view of this

language I do not see how it is possible to escape the conclusion that there was a plain incorporation by Congress of these
islands and an extension of sovereignty over them. Notwithstanding this, however, we held that the conviction of one,
who between the (late of the Newlands resolution and the date
of establishing a civil government, had been tried on information and convicted by a non-unanimous jury, was legal, though
not in compliance with the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to
the Constitution, upon the ground that the Constitution was
not formally extended to themn until the Territory was organized, June 14, 1900. 31 Stat. 141, sec. 5. This case shows the
impossibility of applying the doctrine of incorporation without
an accurate definition of the term. Hitherto we have been
content to divide. our Territories into the organized and unorganized; but now we are asked to introduce a new classification of "incorporated" Territories without attempting to define
what shall be deemed an incorporation. The word appears to
me simply to introduce a new element of confusion and to be
of no practical value. Rev. Stat. sec. 1891, declaring that the
Constitution shall have force apd effect within all the organized Territories and in every Territory hereafter organized,
seems to meet the requirements of every case, and to be
operative wherever Congress does not in the organization restrict the application of the Constitution in some particular.
In Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, the question was
presented, as stated by Mr. Justice Day, whether, "in the
absence of a statute of Congress, expressly conferring the right,
trial by jury is a necessary incident of judicial procedure in
the Philippine Islands, where demand for trial by that method
has been made by the accused and denied by the courts established in the islands." In discussing the case it was said that
not only has Congress hitherto refrained from incorporating
the JPhilippine Islands into the United States, but in the act
of 1902, providing for temporary civil government, 32 Stat.
691, there was an express provision that Rev. Stat. sec. 1891

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

should not apply to the Philippine Islands. This is the section
giving force and effect to the Constitution of the United States,
not locally inapplicable, within the organized Territories. The
case simply holds that as Congress did not extend the right
of trial by jury to the Philippine Islands, and had not so
incorporated them as to make the provision apply by implication, the right did not exist. The cases of Steamer Coquitlam,
163 U. S.346, a nd Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486, are
too obviously inapplicable to require comment.
I do not dissent from the conclusion of the court in this case,
but I do dissent from the proposition that Congress may not
deal with Territories as it pleases, until it has seen fit to extend
the provisions of the Constitution to them, which, once done,
in my view, is irrevocable. I regret that the disputed doctrine
of incorporation should have been made the mainstay of the
opinion of the court, when the case might so easily have been
disposed of upon grounds which would have evoked no utterance of disapproval.

KNAPP v. LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 251. Argued February 28, 1905.-Deeided April 10, 1905.

The Circuit Court of the United States has no original jurisdiction to issue
a writ of mandamus at the instance of the Interstate Commerce Commission against a railroad company to compel it to make a report of the
mattern and things specified in § 20 of the act of Congresb to regulate
conmerce.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

