OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

have been done under the original contract, it is found that it
was admitted by the'(lefen(lant to be correct, and is work of
which the District has received the full benefit. So as to other
findings to which exceptions are made, there is no dispute that
the work was actually (lone to the satisfaction of the Comimiissioners upon terms agreed upon and the work duly accepted.
As we construe the statute, we think it affords ample authority to grant relief upon the facts found, which findings are
conclusive upon us.
It is further urge(l by counsel for the Government that the
pleadings are not sufficient to authorize the judgment, but we
think that under the original petition and various amendinents thereto the court was authorized to grant the relief
adjudged.
The Court of Claims is not bound by special rules of pleading. The main purpose is to arrive at and adjudicate the
justice of alleged claims against the United States. United
States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246, 254; United States v. Behan, 110
U. S. 338, 347.
On the whole record we find no error of law to the prejudice
of the District.
Judgment affirmed.

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued November 10, 1904.-1)ecided March 6, 1905.

In the absence of any provision of the act of Congress creating the liability
of stockholders of national banks, fixing a linitation of time for commencing actions to enforce it, the statute of limitations of the particular
State is applicable.
Although a statutory liability may be contractual, or quasi-contractual

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
197 U. S,

Statement of the Case.

in its nature, an action given by statute is not necessarily to be regarded
as brought on simple contract, or breach of simple contract.
The liability of stockholders of national banks is conditional, and the right
to sue does not obtain until the Comptroller of the Currency has acted;
his order is the basis of the suit, and the statute of limitations does not
commence to run until assessment made, and then it runs as against
an action to enforce the statutory liability and not an action for breach
of contract.
As the statute of limitations of Washington has been construed by the
courts of that State the time within which such an action must be brought
is two years under § 4805, Ballinger's Code, aid not within three years
under subd. 3 of § 4800.

THE First National Bank of South Bend, Washington, became insolvent and was closed August 10, 1895, and on the
seventeenth day of the same month one Heim was appointed
receiver, who was succeeded by Aldrich, and Aldrich by
George C. Rankin.
August 17, 1896, the acting Comptroller of the Currency
levied an assessment against the shareholders of the bank in
enforcement of their statutory liability. Adolphus F. McClaine, one of the stockholders, was notified of the levy,
and demand was duly made of him to pay the assessment on
or before September 17, 1896, and shortly thereafter an action
was commenced against him by the receiver to recover the
same. Pending the action, efforts to settle the claim were
made. Subsequently, the action was dismissed. Thereupon
the receiver brought an action against McClaine upon an
alleged contract of compromise, which went to trial, and the
receiver took a non-suit. The present action was then brought
on the assessment, August 15, 180,9, and McClaine set up the
statute of limitations by demurrer, which the Circuit Court
sustained, and dismissed the action. 98 Fed. Rep. 378. The
cause was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court reversed. 106 Fed. Rep.
791.
The case having been remanded, the Circuit Court overruled
the demurrer, McClaine answered, and a trial was had, resulting in judgment for the receiver, which was affirmed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

the Circuit Court of Appeals. 119 Fed. Rep. 110. This writ
of error was then brought.
The following are sections of the statutes of Washington
in relation to limitations, as found in Ballinger's Codes:
"SEc. 4796. Actions can only be commenced within the

periods herein prescribed after the cause of action shall have
accrued, except when in special cases a different limitation
is prescribed by statute; but the objection that the action was
not commenced within the time limited can only be taken
by answer or demurrer.
"SEC. 4797. The period prescribed in the preceding section
for the commencement of actions shall be as follows:
"SEC. 4798. Within six years: 1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United States, or of any
State or Territory within the United States;
"2. An action upon a contract in writing, or liability express or implied arising out of a written agreement;
"3. An action for the rents and profits or for the use and
occupation of real estate."
"SEC. 4800. Within three years: 1. An action for waste or
trespass upon real property;
"2. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal
property, including an action for the specific recovery thereof,
or for any other injury to the person or rights of another not
hereinafter enumerated;
. "3. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied, which is inot in writing, and does not arise out of any
written instrument;
"4. An action for relief upon the ground of fraud, the cause
of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until
the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting
the fraud;
"5. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable upon
a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity
and by virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official
duty, including the non-payment of money collected upon

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

an execution; but this subdivision shall not apply to action
for an escape;
"6. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture,
where an action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such
party and the State, except when the statute imposing it prescribed a different penalty [limitation];
"7. An action for seduction and breach of promise of
marriage."
"SEC. 4805. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided
for shall be commenced within two years after the cause of
action shall have accrued."
Mr. T. 0. Abbott for plaintiff in error:

The action is barred by the Washington statute of limitations. Ballinger's Codes, §§ 4796, 4800, 4805.
In Washington there is no statute relating in express language to a liability created by statute, "except for a forfeiture
or penalty." An action to enforce such a liability therefore
comes within the provision of § 4805, above quoted, because
it is an action upon a liability for which no relief is "hereinbefore provided for." Spokane v. Stevens, 12 Washington,
667; Ballard v. West Coast Co., 15 Washington, 572; State v.
Ballard, 16 Washington, 418; Seattle v. De Wolfe, 17 Wash-

ington, 349.
The court below failed to distinguish the rule and relied on
Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S.364; but see contra, McDonald v.
Thompson, 184 U. S.71. Howarth v. Angle, 56 N. E. Rep. 489,
and Howarth v. Lombdrd, 56 N. E. Rep. 888, can be distin-

guished, see Chapman v. Morrell, 20 California, 137; Bliss
v. Sneath, 119 California, 530; Wilson v. Brook, 13 Washington,
676; Thompson on Corp. § 1991; Wood Stat. cf Lim., 3d ed.,
§ 36; Robertson v. Blaine County, 90 Fed. Rep. 63; Bullard v.

Bell, 1 Mason, 243; S.C., Fed. Cas. No. 2121; Shaw v. Nor.
Pac. R. R. Co., 101 U. S.557; Johnson v. Southern Pacific Ry.

Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 462.
Mr. F. F. Oldham for defendant in error, contended that

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

the action is not barred by' the two-year provision of the
statute of limitations of the State but falls under the threeyear provisions. Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S.364, and cases
cited in opinion in this case below, 106 Fed. Rep. 791.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded that, in the absence of any provision of the
act of Congress creating the liability, fixing a limitation of
time for commencing actions to enforce it, the statute of
limitations of the particular State is applicable. Rev. Stat.
§ 721; Campbell v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610. If, then, this
action was barred by the statute of limitations of the State
of Washington, that ended it, and both judgments below must
be reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with
a direction that judgment be entered for defendant.
Reference to the state statutes shows that subdivision 2
of §4798 relates to "an action upon a contract in writing,
or liability express or implied arising out of a written agreement," while subdivision 3 of § 4800 relates to "an action
upon a contract or liability, express or implied, which is not
in writing, and does not arise out of any written instrument."
The one relates to contracts or liabilities growing out of contracts in writing, and the other to contracts or liabilities growing out of contracts not in writing. The receiver's contention
is that the case falls within subdivision 3 of § 4800, imposing
the limitation of three years. If it does not, it is not otherwise provided for, and falls within § 4805, which fixes the
limitation at two years.
And as this action was commenced within three years, but
not within two years, after the assessment became due and
payable, the question is whether subdivision 3 of §4800
applies.
It is contended that the meaning of the word "liability"
as used in that subdivision is not restricted to contract liabilities, but reading it with subdivision 2 of § 4798, and in

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

view of the enumeration of other actions to enforce liabilities,
we think that this cannot be so, and, indeed, the subdivision
has been construed by the Supreme Court of Washington as
applicable only to contracts. Suter v. lVenatchee Water Power
Company, 35 Washington, I ; Sargent v. Tacoma, 10 Washington, 212. The Circuit Court was of that opinion when the case
was originally disposed of, and held that the cause of action
arose by force of the statute and did not spring from contract.
98 Fed. Rep. 378. But that judgment was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the ground that the liability was
not only statutory but contractual as well, and that the limitation of three years applied in the latter aspect. 106 Fed.
Rep. 791. Conceding that a statutory liability may be contractual in its nature, or more accurately, quasi-contractual,
does it follow that an action given by statute should be regarded as brought on simple contract, or for breach of a simple
contract, and, therefore, as coming within the provision in
question?
The national bank act provides that "the shareholders of
every national banking association shall be held individually
responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another, for
all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, to
the extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par
value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such
shares." Rev. Stat. § 5151.
And under other sections the duty is imposed on the
Compinsolvent
an
of
creditors
the
give
to
Currency
of
the
troller
national bank the benefit of' the enforcement of this personal
liability, and to decide whether the whole, or a part, and, if
only a part, how much, shall be collected, he being also authorized to make more than one assessment, as circumstances
may require. Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498; Studebaker v.
Perry, 184 U. S. 258, and cases cited. But even his decision
does not determine the liability except as to contracts, debts,
and engagements of the bank lawfully incurred. Schrader v.
Manufacturers' National Bank, 133 U. S. 67.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

The liability is conditional, the statutes of limitation do
not commence to run until after assessment has been made.
McDonald v. Thompson, 184 U. S. 71.
In the latter case the statute of Nebraska provided (§ 10)
that actions must be commenced within five years, "upon a
specialty, or any agreement, contract or promise in writing,
or foreign judgment;" and (§ 11) within four years "upon a
contract not in writing, express or implied; an actioi upon a
liability created by statute other than a forfeiture or penalty."
The action was brought on an assessment upon the stockholders of a national bank to the amount of the par value of
the shares, and not to recover an amount unpaid on the original subscription, and it was held that the five-year limitation
did not apply, because the cause of action was not upon a
written contract, but that the four-year limitation applied,
"whether the promise raised by the statute was an implied
contract not in writing or a liability created by statute," no
distinction between them as to the limitation being made by
the state statute. And Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for the
court, said: "Whether the promise raised by the statute was
an implied contract not in writing or a liability created by
statute, it is immaterial to inquire. For the purposes of this
case it may have been both. The statute was the origin of
both the right and the remedy, but the contract was the origin
of the personal responsibility of the defendant. Did the
statute make a distinction between them with reference to
the time within which an action must be brought it might be
necessary to make a more exact 'definition; but as the action
must be brought in any case within four years, it is unnecessary to go further than to declare what seems entirely clear
to us, that it is not a contract in writing within the meaning
of section 10 of the Nebraska act." And it was also said:
"Granting there was a.contract with the creditors to pay a
sum equal to the value of the stock taken, in addition to. the
sum invested in the shares, this was a contract created by the
statute, and obligatory upon the stockholders by reason of

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute existing at the time of their subscription; but it
was not a contract in writing within the meaning of the Nebraska act, since the writing-that is, the subscription-contained no reference whatever to the statutory obligation and
no promise to respond beyond the amount of the subscription.
In none of the numerous cases upon the subject in this court
is this obligation treated as an express contract, but as orle
created by the statute and implied from the express contract
of the stockholders to take and pay for shares in the association."
In the present case the limitation imposed on an action
upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, where an action was
given, was three years (sub. 6, § 4800), and on any other
action to enforce a statutory liability was two years, because
not otherwise provided for, and, therefore, the question must
be met whether this is an action brought on a contract or not.
But it is an action to recover on an assessment levied by the
Comptroller of the Currency by virtue of the act of Congress,
and although the shareholder in taking his shares subjected
himself to the liability prescribed by the statute, the question
still remains whether that liability constituted a contract
within the meaning of the statute of limitations of the State
of Washington.
Some statutes imposing individual liability are merely in
affirmation of the common law, while others impose an individual liability other than that at common law.. If § 5151
had provided that subscribing to stock or taking shares of
stock amounted to a promise directly to every creditor, then
that liability would have been a liability by contract. But
the words of § 5151 do not mean that the stockholder promises
the creditor as surety for the debts of the corporation, but
merely impose a liability on him as secondary to those debts,
which debts remain distinct, and to which the stockholder
is not a party. The liability is a consequence of the breach
by the corporation of its contract to pay, and is collateral
and statutory. Brown v. Eastern 8.ate Company, 134 MassaVOL. CXOVII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

chusetts, 590; Platt v. Wilmot, 193 U. S. 602. In Matteson v.
Dent, 176 U. S. 521, the stock still stood in the name of the
decedent, and it was decided that the statutory liability was
a debt within the state law, but not that it was a true contract.
It is true that in particular cases the liability has been held
to be in its nature contractual, yet it is nevertheless conditional, and enforcible only according to the Federal statute,
independent of which the cause of action does not exist, so
that the remedy at law in effect given by that statute is subject to the limitations imposed by the state statute on such
actions.
Cases such as Carrol v. Green, 92 U. S.509, and Metropolitan
Railroad Company v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, are not
controlling, for in them the right to recover was direct and
immediate and not secondary and contingent. In Metropolitan Railroad Company v. District of Columbia, the charter
of the company provided "that the said corporation hereby
created shall be bound to keep said tracks, and for the space
of two feet beyond the outer rail thereof, and also the space
between the tracks, at all times well paved and in good order,
without expense to the United States or to the city of Washington." The declaration set out a large amount of paving
done by the city, which it was averred should have been done
by the company. The action was based on the implied obligation on the part of defendant to reimburse plaintiff for
moneys expended in performing the duty, which the statute
imposed on defendant. In Carrol v. Green it was said: "According to the statute, the liability of 'each stockholder' arose
upon 'the failure of the bank.' The liability gave at once the
right to, sue; and, by necessary consequence, the period of
limitation began at the same time."
But here the right to sue did not obtain until the Comptroller of the Currency had acted, and his order was the basis
of ,the suit. The statute of limitations did not commence to
run until assessment made, and then it ran as against an action

McCLAINE ,v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

WHITE, BROWN and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

to enforce the statutory liability and not an action for breach
of contract.
We think that subdivision 3 of § 4800 did not apply, and
that § 4805 did.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the
cause remanded to that court with a direction to sustain the
demurrer and enter judgment for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concur
and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting.

MR.

JUSTICE BROWN

The statutes of the State of Washington limit to three years
the right to bring "an action upon a contract or liability,
express or implied, which is not in writing, and does not arise
out of any written instrument." The cause of action here
involved is now held not to be embraced within this statute,
and therefore barred by the following provision: "An action
for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, shall be -commenced
within two years after the cause of action shall have accrued."
The liability sought to be enforced is the obligation of a
shareholder of a national bank to pay an amount equal to the
par of his shares of stock. The Circuit Court held the action
not to be one upon contract, but to enforce a conditional liability imposed by the law as an incident to ownership of bank
stock, and therefore barred by two years. 98 Fed. Rep. 378.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this judgment, and decided that the period of limitation was three years, because
the liability was contractual. 106 Fed. Rep. 791.
In Suter v. Wenatchee Water Power Company, decided
April 18, 1904, 35 Washington, 1, the Supreme Court of
Washington construed the provision of the statutes of limitation here involved, providing that an action might be brought
within three years "upon a contract or liability, express or
implied, which is not in writing," and held that it did not embrace torts, "but was evidently intended to refer to a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
WHITE, BROWN and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

tractual liability." The court in its opinion, among other
authorities, referred to this case as decided below, saying:
"Such, in effect, was the decision in Sargent v. Tacoma, 10
Washington, 212, 215. The same statute was so construed
by the United States Circuit Court, District of Washington,
in Aldrich v. Skinner, 98 Fed. Rep. 375, and also in Aldrich
v. McClaine, 98 Fed. Rep. 378. The last-named case was,
on appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversed. Aldrich v. McClaine, 106 Fed. Rep. 791. The
reversal was, however, upon the ground that the liability
involved was a contractual one, the lower court having held
otherwise. The appellate court construed the statute itself
as did the lower court."
It might well be considered that the Supreme Court of
Washington regarded the interpretation of the Court of Appeals as harmonizing with its own views of the meaning of the
provision in question. But be this as it may, the prior decisions of this court to me seem conclusive, since, in deciding
various questions concerning the liability of stockholders in
national banks to pay the double liability, this court has
expressly held that such liability is contractual. Matteson v.
Dent, 176 U. S. 521, 525, 526; Concord First National Bank v.
Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364, 372; Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S.
27, 55, 56. In Richmond v. Irons the court said (pp. 55, 56):
"Under that act the individual liability of the stockholders
is an essential element in the contract by which the stockholders became members of the corporation. It is voluntarily
entered into by subscribing- for and accepting shares of stock.
Its obligation becomes a part of every contract, debt, and
engagement of the bank itself, as much so as if they were made
directly by the stockholder instead of by the corporation.
There is nothing in the statute to indicate that the obligation
arising upon these undertakings and promises should not have
the same force and effect, and be as binding in all respects, as
any other contracts of the individual stockholder. We hold,
therefore, that the obligation of the stockholder survives as

McCLAINE v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

WHITF, BROWN and MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

against his personal representatives. Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S.
371; Hobart v. Johnson, 19 Blatchford, 359. In Massachusetts
it was held, in Grew v. Breed, 10 Met. 569, that administrators
of deceased stockholders were chargeable in equity, as for
other debts of their intestate, in their representative capacity."
In Matteson v. Dent the evidence showed that at the time
of the death of Matteson he was the owner of ten shares of
stock in a national bank, a going concern. His widow and
heirs, by the decree of a probate court of Minnesota, became
the joint and undivided owners of the stock, which continued,
however, to stand in the name of Matteson. Thereafter the
bank failed, and, on the ground that they had received assets
of the estate, a suit was brought against the widow and heirs
for the amount of an assessment made by the Comptroller
against the stock. The suit was defended on two grounds,
first, that the assessment was not binding, because the bank
had not failed at the time of Matteson's death and at the time
when, by the decree of the probate court, the widow and heirs
had become the owners in indivision of the stock; and, second, that under the national banking law they could only be
made liable in any event, each in proportion to his or her.
interest in the stock. In considering the first ground the
court, approvingly citing the passage from Richmond v. Irons
above quoted, said (p. 524):
"Because the insolvency of the bank took place after the
death of Matteson, did it result that the assessment, which
was predicated upon the insolvency, was not a debt of his
estate? To so decide the statute must be construed as imposing the liability on the shareholder for the amount of his
subscription when necessary to pay debts, only in case insolvency arises (luring the lifetime of the shareholder. In
other words, that all liability of shareholders, to contribute
to pay debts, ceases by death. This construction, however,
would be manifestly unsound. The obligation of a subscriber to stock, to contribute to the amount of his subscrip-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
WHITE, BROWN and McKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

tion for the purpose of the payment of debts, is cpntractual,
and arises from the subscription to the stock. True, whether
there is to be a call for the performance of this obligation
depends-on whether it becomes necessary to do so in consequence of the happening of insolvency. But the obligation
to respond is engendered by and relates to the contract from
which it arises. This contract obligation, existing during life,
is not extinguished by death, but like other contract obligations survives and is enforceable against the estate of the
stockholder."
And the same principle has been applied to similar liabilities imposed upon stockholders in state corporations, the
court uniformly holding that the liability, although statutory
in its origin, was contractual in its nature, and therefore the
cause of action was transitory. Whitman v. Oxford National
Bank, 176 U. S. 559; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371.
In Whitman v. Bank, discussing a statute of the State of
Kansas, the court, through Mr. Justice Brewer, said (p. 563):
"The liability which by the constitution and statutes is
thus declared to rest upon the stockholder, though statutory
in its origin, is contractual in its nature. It would not be
doubted that if the stockholders in this corporation had formed
a partnership, the obligations of each partner to the others
and to creditors would be contractual, and determined by the
general common law in respect to partnerships. If Kansas
had provided for partnerships with limited liability, and these
parties, complying with the provisions of the statute, had
formed such a partnership, it would also be true that their
obligations to one another and to creditors would be contractual, although only in the statute was to be found the
authority for the creation of such obligations. And it is none
the less so when these same stockholders organized a corporation under a law of Kansas, which prescribed the nature of
the obligations which each thereby assumed to the others and
to the creditors. While the statute of Kansas permitted the
forming of the corporation under certain conditions, the action

McCLAINE 'v. RANKIN.
197 U. S.

WHITE, BRowNT and MCKPNNA, JJ., dissenting.

of these parties was purely voluntary. In other words, they
entered into a contract authorized by statute."
And the 'principle sustained by the previous decisions of
this court is also supported by the decisions of state courts
of last resort. Thus, the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine in
Pulsi/er v. Greene, 96 Maine, 438, held the doctrine to be
consonant with reason and natural justice and sustained by
the weight of authority, the court citing not only the decisions
of this court previously referred to, but also decisions of the
courts of California, Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts and Michigan. And the decisions of the state courts of
last resort thus referred to were in many cases in part rested
upon the previous adjudications of this court to which I have
referred, those decisions being considered as conclusive on the
subject of the contract nature of the liability. My mind sees
no reason for saying that the doctrine thus settled is not applicable to a statute of limitations, for if the liability of the stockholder be contractual, for the purpose of enforcing the obligation, it is not by me perceived upon what principle it can
be held that it is not contractual but purely statutory for the
purpose, of determining whether an action to enforce the
liability is barred by a statute of limitations. But the unsoundness of the distinction as an original question in my
opinion does not require to be demonstrated, since it is absolutely foreclosed by previous decisions of this court. Thus,
in Carrol v. Green, 92 U. S. 509, an action against stockholders
of a South Carolina bank to enforce a double liability provided
for in the act of incorporation, it was expressly held that as
the liability was contractual it was barred by a statute of
limitations applicable t 9 simple contract indebtedness. Reference was made to decisions of the courts of New York and
Massachusetts, holding the same doctrine in analogous cases
(pp. 514, 515), and, in concluding the opinion, the, court expressly noticed and overruled the contention "that the liability here in question being created by a statute is to be
regarded as a debt by specialty."

OCTOBER TERM; 1904.
WHrrE, BRowN and MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

Carroll v. Green was subsequently approved and followed
in Metropolitan Railroad v; District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1.
The action was to recover the cost of certain street paving,
the liability being recited in the act of incorporation. The
trial court overruled demurrers to pleas of the statute of
limitations, among other reasons, upon the ground that the
action was founded on a statute, and that the statute of limitations (lid not apply to actions founded on statutes or other
records or specialties. This ruling was held to be erroneous,
the court saying (p. 12):
"It is an action on the case upon an implied assumpsit
arising out of the defendant's breach of a duty imposed by
statute, and the required performance of that duty by the
plaintiff in consequence. This raised an implied obligation
on the1part of the defendant to reimburse and pay to the
plaintiff the moneys expended in that behalf. The action is
founded on this implied obligation, and not on the statute,
and is really an action of assumpsit. The fact that the duty
which the defendant failed to perform was a statutory one,
does not make the action one upon the statute. The action
is clearly one of those described in the statute of limitations."
To avoid the controlling effect of these rulings upon this
case, on the theory that by virtue of the statutes which were
considered in Carrol v. Green, and the Metropolitan Railroad
case, the right to recover was direct and immediate, whilst in
the case at bar, in consequence of provisions of the national
banking act, the right to recover is secondary and contingent,
is in effect, in my opinion, to overrule the cases in this court
determining that the liability of a stockholder in a national
bank is contractual. This becomes apparent when the ground
of the alleged distinction is considered. That ground is this,
that as the national banking act empowers the Comptroller
to determine the necessity for an assessment on the stockholders of national banks and to make a call for such assessment, thereby the obligation of the stockholder becomes
secondary and contingent, and hence statutory and not con-

DALLEMAGNE V. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Syllabus.

tractual. To me it seems that this interpretation, whilst
overruling the previous cases also originally considered, gives
to the national banking act an erroneous construction. The

mere fact that the act gives to the Comptroller the power of
making a call on stockholders for the purpose of enforcing
their contract liability, in my judgment lends no support to
the proposition that the ministerial duty created to betteienforce the contract must be considered as destroying the
contract itself. 'The consequences which must arise from the
new construction now placed upon the national banking act,
it seems to me, will be of the .most serious nature, and being
unable to agree with such construction I cannot concur in the
opinion and judgment of the court.

I am authorized to say that Mn.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

JUSTICE BROWN

and

join this dissent.

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 104.

Submitted December 15, 1904.-Decided March 13, 1905.

Power may be conferred upon a 9tatc officer, as such, to execute a duty
imposed under an act of Congress, and the officer may execute the same,
unless its execution is prohibited by the constitution or legislation of
the State.
There is n'o constitutional or statutory provision of California prohibiting
the arrest of a seaman on the request of a French consul under the treaty
with France of'1853, and such arrest, being for temporary detention of
a sailor whose contract is an exceptional one, does not deprive him of his
liberty without due process bf law, and if the chief of police voluntarily
performk the request of the consul the arrest is not illegal on that ground.
rhe only method of enforcing treaty provfiions for arrest of seamen on
requisition of foreign consuls is pursuant to the act of June 11, 1864,
13 Stat. 121, now §§ 4079, 4080, 4081, Rev. Stat., and thereunder the
requisition must be made to the District Court or judge and the arrest
made by the marshal, and an arrest by a local chief of police is not authorized; but if after a seaman so arrested has been produced before
the District Court on habeas corpts and the court finds that his case

