UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
197 U. S.

Syllabus.

as representing the defendants in any of the ways mentioned.
The decree was rendered after finding in favor of the complainants' theory of tiecase, and had the effect to require the
defendants to the bill, their agents and attorneys, to vacate
the premises, and enjoined them from further mining thereon.
It is utterly inconsistent with the proceedings and the decree
to enlarge the judgment so as to include agents of the Pioneer
Iron Company. If it should hereafter be insisted that the
rights of that company or its agents are concluded, a Federal
question might arise if such effect shall be given to the decree
in this action. In our view of this case there is nothing in the
proceedings or decree in anywise conclusive of the rights of the
Pioneer Iron Company, if it is held to be a living corporation,
or any of its duly authorized agents acting in its behalf.
We, therefore, find that no Federal question arises upon this
record. The proceedings in this court will be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 438. Argued February 28,Mareh 1, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

Section 939 of the District of Columbia Code, providing that if any person
charged with a criminal offense shall have been committed or held to

bail to await the action of the grand jury, and the grand jury does not
act within nine months the prosecution on the charge shall be deemed
to be abandoned and the. accused set free or his bail discharged, is not a
statute of limitations, and does not repeal or affect the general statute
of limitations in force in the District, ยง 1044 Rev. Stat., and a person,
who in this case had not made any application under ยง 939 to be released
from bail, may be held to answer upon an indictment found more than
nin, months after he was arrested and held to bail.
It wo.-4 require clear aud speci,:-' snguage to indicate a legislative intent

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

to bar the prosecution of all offenses for the failure of the grand jury to
act witlhin nine months of the arrest of the accused when the latter is at
large under bail.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds, with whom Mr.
William R. Harr,special assistant to the Attorney General,
was on the brief for the United States.
Mr. H. Prescott Gatley for respondent Parker.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The respondents were indicted for conspiracy in the District
Court of the District of Columbia on March 31j 1902. On
April 4, 1902, Cadarr, Keating and Myers were arraigned and
entered pleas of not guilty. On April 7, 1902, Parker entered
a plea of not guilty; on May 1, 1902, he withdrew this plea and
filed a motion to quash. The ground of this motion was that
the indictment was not returned to the court within nine
months from the twenty-fifth day of April, 1901, on which day
the defendants were held to bail to await the action of the
grand jury on the charge of conspiracy, the time for taking
action in the case not having been extended by the court or
any judge thereof, as provided in section 939 of the act to
establish a code for the District of Columbia, approved March 3,
1901. The motion was sustained, and it was directed that
Parker's bail be discharged, and all the defendants were allowed
to go without day.
Upon appeal by the United States, the Court of Appeals
affirmed this judgment. Thereupon this writ of certiorari
was granted.
This case raises the question whether section 939 of the Code
of the District of Columbia is intended to bar further prosecution of crimes and offenses where the grand jury has failed to
act thereon within the period named in the statute, or whether

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the failure to take such action is intended to and does end
further prosecution so as to discharge the accused from bail
or from imprisonment in cases of commitment. The District
Court, whose judgment was sustained by the Court of Appeals, construed the statute as one of limitations, and held that
failure to take action within the period limited was a final bar
to further prosecution. The section directly involved is number 939 of the District of Columbia Code, and is as follows:
"SEC. 939. Abandonment of prosecution.--If any person
charged with a criminal offense shall have been committed or
held to bail to await the action of the grand jury, and within
nine months thereafter the grand jury shall not have taken
action on the case, either by ignoring the charge or by returning an indictment into the proper court, the prosecution of
such charge shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the
accused shall be set free or his bail discharged, as the case may
be: Provided, however, That the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, holding a special term as a criminal court, or,
in vacation, any justice of said court, upon' good cause shown
in writing, and, when practicable, upon due notice to the
accused, may from time to time enlarge the time for the taking
action in such case by the grand jury." 31 Stat. 1189, 1342.
The general statute of limitations is in fotce in the District
and is section 1044, Revised Statutes of the United States,
which is as follows:
"No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any
offense, not capital, except as provided in section one thousand
and forty-six, unless the indictment is found, or the information is instituted within three years next after Auch offense
shall have been committed."
It is the contention of respondents' counsel that section 939
operates as a special statute of limitation for cases within its
terms wherein the accused has been arrested and committed
to prison or released on bail. On the other hand, the Government contends that it is not a statute of limitation, but is intended to limit the time within which the gi'and jury must act

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

upon a charge upon which the accused has been arrested and
committed or admitted to bail. At the common law and in
the absence of special statutes of limitations the mere failure
to find an indictimient will not operate to discharge the accused
from the offense sior will a nolle prosequi entered by the Government or the failure of the grand jury to indict. It is doubtless true that in some cases the power of the Government has
been abused and charges have been kept hanging over the
heads of citizens, and they have been committed for unreasonable periods, resulting in hardship. With a view to preventing such wrong to the citizen, statutes have been passed
in many States similar to the one under consideration, in aid
of the constitutional provisions, National and state, intended
to secure to the accused a speedy trial. These statutes differ
so much in purpose and phraseology that we cannot derive
much aid from decisions under theni in determining the correct construction of the one under consideration. With a few
exceptions, they relate to the bringing to trial of the accused
after indictment found, and are intended to speed the trial of
the cause. Whether the failure to bring on the trial within
the time limited shall have the effect of discharging the accused from further prosecution for the crime or offense, or
shall operate merely to put an end to the pending prosecution,
depends upon the terms used in the different statutes. Generally speaking, where the statute has provided that the discharge shall be from imprisonment or bail, without other
language, it has been held not to operate as a statute of limitations. On the other hand, where the statute has provided that
the failure to prosecute shall discharge the accused so far as
relates to the offense or from the crime, or he shall be acquitted
of the offense charged in the indictment, failure to prosecute
has been held to work a final discharge from the offense. Of
the former class of cases are State v. Garthwaite, 3 Zab. 143;
of the latter class are Ex parte McGehan, 22 Ohio St. 442;
Commonwealth v. Cawood, 2 Va. Cases, 527; State v. Wear, 145
Missouri, 162; In re Edwards, 35 Kansas, 99, 103.

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Turning to the particular statute under consideration, we
find it is one in terms dealing with the status of the accused
before indictment, after he has been committed or held to bail,
and limits the time within which the grand jury may take
action in such cases, whether the same results in ignoring the
charge or the return of an indictment, and for the failure of
the grand jury to take action within the time limited it is
provided "that the prosecution of such charge shall be deemed
to have been abandoned and the accused shall be set free or
his bail discharged, as the case may be." This statute is not
one of limitations, having effect upon the time in which the
particular case may be prosecuted after the commission of
the crime, but relates solely to the right of action by the grand
jury as to one who has been committed or held to bail, wherein
it is provided that the grand jury must act within the time
named or the accused shall be set free, if imprisoned, or his
bail discharged, if out on bond. We think this act was not
intended to amount to a repeal pro tanto of the statute of
limitation as contained in section 1044. For failure to indict
within the time-limited it is not provided, as in the cases where
the statute has been construed to finally discharge the accused,
that he shall be discharged from the offense, or that prosecution shall be forever barred, or he shall be deemed acquitted of
the charge, but the result of the failure to prosecute has reference solely to the right in the pending prosecution to be freed,
if imprisoned, or released from bail if under bond. If it had
been the purpose of Congress to work so radical a change in
the law as to end the right of further prosecution for the
offense, we think it would have used language apt for that purpose, and the failure so to do indicates the intention to deal
only with delays in action by the grand jury against persons
under arrest or bonds. It is delay in the action of the grand
jury, not the cutting down of the time of prosecution for
offenses, that is aimed at in this statute. Much stress is laid
in the argument of counsel for the respondent upon the expression, "the prosecution of such charge shall be deemed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 t. S.

have been abandoned." But having reference to the previous
part of the section, "such charge," relates to the one under
which the accused has been committed or held to bail. The
section prescribes the time within which the grand jury must,
act, and failing so to do, it is decreed that the prosecution shall
be deemed to have been abandoned, and the effect upon the
accused is not that he shall be discharged from prosecution for
the offense, but that he shall be set free, if imprisoned, or his
bail discharged, if released on bond. The statute, it is observed, acts upon persons committed to prison, and, with like
effect, upon those not incarcerated but only held to bail. We
think it would require clear and specific language to indicate
a legislative intent to bar the prosecution of all offenses for
the failure of the grand jury to act within nine months of the
arrest of the accused, when the latter is at large upon bond.
Again, if the contention of counsel for the accused is adopted,
one will be discharged from further prosecution if the grand
jury does not act upon the case, but if the grand jury does act,
and the charge against the accused is found.to ,be unwarranted,
lie is still subject to indictment until the three years of the
statute of limitations have run, while the person whose case
has not been wholly investigated will be forever released from
the offense. Furthermore, section 1044 does not apply to
capital offenses, for such are expressly excluded from the
operation of that section; but section 939, under consideration,
makes no exception, and applies alike to all offenses, and would
operate to discharge a person accused of murder as well as one
accused of petty theft. But, it is urged, section 939 permits
the court to control and extend the time for taking action by
the grand jury, thereby indicating the purpo-, of Congress to
make this statute one of limitation. But we do not think the
control of the time for taking action before the grand jury,
given in this paragraph, enlarges the statute so as to make it
applicable beyond the effect prescribed, which is upon the
liberty of the accused or his freedom from the requirement to

give bail.

It is urged that if the construction insisted upon

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Government is given to this statute the accused may
be discharged for failure of the grand jury to act, and then
immediately rearrested, so that the statute will be defeated
of its purpose to protect the accused. The question of whether
one who has made application to the court, and been discharged for failure to find an indictment against him within
the time limited, could again be arrested without indictment,
is not involved in this case. The question is, Is the prosecution of the offense finally barred by this statute, so that the
accused may not be held to answer upon an indictment found
after the nine months' period has elapsed? It is urged by
counsel for the respondents that the power given the court
to enlarge the time for taking action by the grand jury is not
limited, and that the time may be extended beyond the period
of three years fixed by the general statute of limitations. We
cannot agree to this contention. We think the general statute
of limitations has not been repealed or modified by this section. The purpose of statutes of limitation is to finally bar
all prosecution, and the purpose of the act under consideration, as we view it, is to control uhe prosecution by requiring
action by the grand jury, and in default thereof release the
person of the accused or discharge him from bail, so far as the
pending prosecution is concerned. While the construction of
this section is not free from difficulty, we think the view herein
expressed best effectuates the purpose and intention of Congress in enacting this statute, viewed in the light of the language
used and the objects intended. This view of the case renders
it unnecessary to pass upon other questions raised in the
record.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals will be reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to reverse the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District,of Columbia and remand
the cause to that court for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.

VOL. excvii-31

