IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNEE IRON CO.
197 U. S.

463

Statement of the Case.

IRON CLIFFS COMPANY v. NEGAUNEE IRON COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 173.

Argued March 9, 10, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

No person can be deprived of property rights by any decree in a case wherein
he is not a party.
Where a corporation is not itself made a party to the suit, complainant
alleging that its corporate existence had ended, its rights cannot be
adjudged even though certain persons are made defendants on the ground
that they are using the name of the corporation as a cover for their
alleged wrongful acts and they answer, denying any personal interest,
and claiming that the corporation is a going concern and justify their
acts as its agent; and a decree of a state court, in such an action cannot
be reviewed in this court at the instance of one of such defendants on the
ground that the corporation has been deprived of its property without
due process of law.

THIS case was begun in the Circuit Court of the State of
Michigan by the defendants in error, The Negaunee Iron Company, Edward N. Breiturpg and Mary kaufman, against The
Iron Cliffs Company, The Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company,
William G. Mather and Murray M. Duncan. The defendants
in error, plaintiffs in the court below, claimed to be the owners
of certain premises upon which there was an outstanding lease
purported to run for a term of ninety-nine'years from its date,
September 17, 1857, made by Charles Harvey to the Pioneer
Iron Company. As the controversy in this court centers about
this lease the allegations of the bill in respect thereto may be
noticed. It is alleged that the interest conveyed by Harvey
on the seventeenth day of September, 1857, to the Pioneer
Iron CompAny was for the sole purpose of mining and quarrying at its own expense such ores and marble as might be found
on the premises, subject to the qualification that the said company should not quarry, mine or remove any ore from said

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

lands, except such as it could actually convert into merchantable iron in its own furnaces and forges, being the furnaces and
forges then being constructed or about to be constructed by
the said company at Negaunee. Complainants allege.that at
the time of the filing of the bill they were, and for more than
fifteen years theretofore, had been in the actual and exclusive
possession of all the lands described in the bill, and the ore and
marble thereon, claiming to be the exclusive owners thereof.
That said Pioneer Iron Company, in the month of September,
1859, erected two .certain ore furnaces at Negaunee instead of
one furnace, as contemplated at the time of the execution of the
grant or lease by Harvey to the Pioneer Iron Company.
That said Pioneer Iron Company carried on the. business of
manufacturing iron at its said furnaces from the time they
were constructed until about the first day of January, 1866.
That said Pioneer Iron Company, in carrying on its said business, procured no iron from the prenises, or any portion of -the
premises described in said lease executed by the said Charles
T. Harvey to the said Pioneer Iron Company, but procured all
of its ore for the manufacturing of iron from other lands.
Complainant alleges that on the first day of January, 1866,
the Pioneer Iron Company ceased to do business, and has not
since that time manufactured or operated under the lease,
but, on the contrary, at and from the date aforesaid abandoned
the same. On the tenth day of March, 1866, the Pioneer Iron
Company entered into an agreement with and leased to the
Iron Cliffs Company for the period of ten years its entire real
and personal property situated in the county of Marquette,
Michigan, consisting of all its iron works, buildings, lands and
property rights. That after making said lease and agreement
With the Iron Cliffs Company the said Pioneer Iron Company
has made and filed no reports as required by the laws of the
State of Michigan.
"That at some time prior to the first day of January, 1873,
the said Iron Cliffs Company became the owner of all the
capital stock of said Pioneer Iron Company, and said stock has

IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNEE IRON CO.
197 U. S.

465

Statement of the Case.

since that time been held in the names of different individuals
for the uses and purposes of said Iron Cliffs Company, and the
certificates of stock representing said capital stock of said
Pioneer Iron Company have been and now are held in the
names of different individuals who are officers, directors,
stockholders, agents or servants of the said Iron Cliffs Company and of the Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of West Virginia and
doing business at Negaunee, in said county of Marquette,
Michigan, which two corporations have been operating together in the conduct of their business, and whose officers and
agents are in the main the same persons; that said stock is held
as aforesaid for the use and benefit of said Iron Cliffs Company.
and the said Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company.
"That on the second day of April, A. D. 1887, the corporate
existence of said Pioneer Iron Company, by the terms of its
articles of association, expired by limitation, and said corporation became and was thereby dissolved; and that whatever
rights, if any, the said Pioneer Iron Company had and held
under and by virtue of said lease were thereby terminated and
extinguished, and such rights and interest thereby reverted to
and became vested in said Charles T. Harvey .rnd his grantees.
"That all the lands hereinbefore specially described are
mineral lands and have therein large deposits of valuable iron
ore and that. the chief value of said lands consists in the iron
ore situated therein, and the mining and removing therefrom
of said iron ore by the defendants would take from said lands
their principal value and would work and would be to your
orators an irreparable injury.
"That the officers and agents of said Iron Cliffs Company
and said Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, who are engaged in
and carrying out the said scheme anl 1)l
to d(efraud your
orators and to mine and remove flhe iron ore from said lands
under the cover and by the use of the name of the Pioneer
Iron Company, are, so far as they are known to your orators,
William G. Mather, who is the president of said Iron Cliffs
YOL. CxCVii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case,?

197 U. S.

Company and also president of said Cleveland Cliffs Iron
Company, and Murray M. Duncan, who your orators are informed and believe, and upon information and belief charge
the truth to be, is the managing agent of the said Iron Cliffs
Company and of the said Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company.
That said Duncan and said Mather and their confederates, as
aforesaid, well know that the- corporate existence of the said
Pioneer Iron Company has long since been terminated and said
corporation dissolved, and that the rights and privileges granted
in said lease of date September 17, 1857, have reverted to the
said Charles T. Harvey and his grantees; notwithstanding
which said Duncan, under the pretense that he is acting as
agent of said Pioneer Iron Company, is engaged in superintending and directing said work which is being done on said
lands by various persons who are laborers acting under his
orders."
The prayer of the bill is:
"(1.) That by the decree of this honorable court, all the
rights and privileges in the mineral and stone granted in said
lease, executed by the said Charles T. Harvey as aforesaid, to
the said Pioneer Iron Company, be declared to be terminated
and of no binding force or effect as against your orators or
their said lands.
"(2.) That in so far as it affects your orators' said lands,
said lease be cancelled and the cloud upon your orators' title
as aforesaid be removed, and your orators' title to all the iron
ore and marble in and upon their said lands be quieted and
confirmed in your orators.
"(3.) That the said William G. Mather, Murray M. Duncan,
the said Iron Cliffs Company and the said Cleveland Cliffs Iron
Company, and their officers, directors, agents, attorneys and
employ~s, be perpetually enjoined and restrained from setting
up in the name of said Pioneer Iron Company or in any other
manner any right or title under said lease from said Charles T.
Harvey to said Pioneer Iron Company, in or to your orators'
said lands, and entering upon or removing from said lands any

IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNEE IRON CO.
197 U. S.

467

Statement of the Case.

iron ore or marble, and for such other and such further relief
as to the court shall seem meet and proper."
One of the defendants, Murray M. Duncan, answ6ring separately, took issue upon the allegations of the bill and denied
specially that the Pioneer Company is dissolved, or any of its
rights or property under the lease or conveyance terminated,
and avers that the said Pioneer Iron Company is still the owner
of the property rights and interests granted and conveyed;
admits that he, as an agent of the said company, has actively
engaged in conducting operations on some of the lands covered
by the conveyance, for the purpose of discovering iron ore to
be used in the furnaces of the Pioneer Iron Company, and that
if ore sufficient in quantity and quality is discovered on the
premises the said Pioneer Iron Company intends immediately
to purchase the right to the surface, as required in the agreement, and intends to continue explorations until it finds ore on
said lands for the use of its furnaces, or discovers the nonexistence of such ore, and further says that he has no personal
interest in the lands set forth in the bill, but in all his actions
is merely the agent of the Pioneer Iron Company, and not the
agent of any other corporation or person whatsoever.
The Iron Cliffs Company and Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company
and William G. Mather answer together, taking issue upon
the allegations of the bill, admitting the existence of the lease
of the Pioneer Iron Company, and aver that the entering and
explorations on the lands were made and have been carried on
by the Pioneer Iron Company, and deny that the charter of
said company has expired; admit that said company through
its agents has continued to carry on the operations begun by
the Pioneer Iron Company under the direction of William G.
Mather, as one of the officers of said company, and deny any
interest in the matter set forth in the bill except as some or all
of them may be stockholders or officers in the Pioneer Iron
Company.
After issue joined and proofs taken the bill of complaint was
amended so as to charge that the defendafits claim and pretend

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

that under the provisions of number 142 of the Public Acts
of 1889 and under number 60 of the Public Acts of 1899 of the
State of Michigan, said Pioneer Iron Company has been reorganized and that by reason of said act such reorganized
company had the right to mine ore under the said lease. The
defendants answered the amendment and admitted that in
April, 1901, the Pioneer Iron Company had caused to be filed
in the office of the -Secretary of State and in the office of the
clerk of Marquette County certain perfected articles of incorporation of the said company in renewal of the original
organization of said company and.under said reorganization,
as well as previous filings claimed to be a valid corporation.
The record discloses that certain articles of association undertaking to reorganize the Pioneer .Iron Company were adopted
October 18, 1889, and filed in the office of the Secretary of
State, April 8, 1900, and amended articles were filed on April 8,
1901.
And, raising a Federal question, William G. Mather made
the following answer:
"And this defendant, William G. Mather, answering for
himself, says he owns in his own right and as trustee, 3940
shares of stock of sAid company, and that if any decree be rendered, in this case by the court in any way declaring a forfeiture or termination or expiration of said ninety-nine year
lease, or in any way affecting the rights of the Pioneer Iron
Company thereunder, that said Pioneer Iron Company not
being made a party to this proceeding, he as such stockholder,
and said Pioneer Iron. Company would thereby be deprived of
its and his property without due process of law, in violation of
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which forbids any State-to deprive
any person of life or liberty or property without due process of
law, and this defendant avers that any decision or findings of the
court in any way limiting, terminating, changing, modifying,
annulling, or diminishing the value of any of the rights of the
Pioneer Iron Company under said ninety-nine year lease, and

IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNEE IRON CO.
197 U. S.

469

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

as expressed therein, would be void and of no effect under said
provision of, said amendment of the Constitution of the United
States."
Upon hearing, the Circuit Court, after setting forth certain
findings, entered the following decree:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the foregoing findings
and determinations of the court concerning the particular
matters set forth in the complainants' bill of complaint, it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the 'defendants, their
counselors, attorneys, solicitors and agents, and each and
every of them, whether acting in their individual or representative capacity, immediately vacate and remove from the
lands described in the bill of complaint, and that they and each
of them be and they hereby are perpetually enjoined 'from
further entering upon the said lands of the complainants for
the purpose of exploring for or taking therefrom any minerals
or iron ore, or for any purpose whatever, without the consent
and authority of the complainants."
This decree, upon appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Michigan. 96 N. W. Rep. 468.
From this judgment a writ of error was sued out to this
court.
Mr. Elihu Root and Mr. James H. Hoyt for plaintiffs in

error as to uhe jurisdiction:
A court can make no decree affecting the rights of an absent
person, and can make no decree between the parties before it,
which so far involves or depends upon the rights of an absent
person that complete and final justice cannot be done between
the parties to the suit, without affecting those rights. Shields
v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 141; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 198;
California v. So. Pacific Co., 157 U. S. 229, 248; Minnesota v.
Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 237; Water Co. v.
Babcock, 76 Fed. Rep. 243.
Where the rights of a party before the court depend upon
the rights of a party not before the court, an adjudication be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

twebn parties to a suit which involves or affects and thereby
determines the property rights of such persons who are not
before the court, violates the constitutional provision, preventing the taking of property without due process of law.
Taylor & Co. v. So. Pacific Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 147, 152; Water
Works v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 480; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U. S.714, 733; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 264, 277.
The Federal question was properly set up and claimed.
Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 634; Water Co. v. Canal Co.,
142 U. S. 254, 268; Land & Water Co. y. Ranch Co., 189 U. S.
177; Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 199; Roby v. Cochour,
146 U. S. 153, 159. The judgment was not based on nonFederal questions; the questions actually decided by the state
court require the presence of the Pioneer Iron Company and
its constitutional rights were invaded, and no judgment should
have been rendered without permitting it to be heard.
Mr. Benton Hanclett and Mr. S. W. Shaull, with whom
Mr. Arch. B. Eldredge, Mr. H. F. Pennington and Mr. Charles
R. Brown were on the brief, for defendantsin error.
MR. .JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The Federal question, from which alone this court can take
jurisdiction, is alleged to arise from the adverse decision made
upon the answer of William G. Mather, setting up, in substance, that in proceeding to determine the case and render a
decree, without the presence of the Pioneer Iron Company as
a party defendant in the action, the said company and Mather,
as a stockholder therein, were deprived of property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the' Constitution of the United States. It is elementary
that, unless such Federal right set up in the state court was
denied the plaintiff in error, this court has no jurisdiction. An
examination of the opinion and decision of the Supreme Court

IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNhE fI ON CO.
197 U. S.

471

Opinion of the Court.

of Michigan shows the court held, among other things, that the
lease to the Pioneer Iron Company and the rights acquired
thereby were appurtenant to the furnaces then existing upon
the lands, and that it acquired no right to mine more ore than
was necessary to supply such furnaces. That as the right to
mine the ore under the lease was appurtenant to the blast
furnaces erected and intended to manufacture the iron so
mined, the abandonment and destruction of the furnaces destroyed the right to mine the ore under the lease. The Piorueer
Company, after the execution of the ninety-nine year lease
having found ore in non-paying quantities, had abandoned
explorations, and for forty-three years had made no attempt
to mine on the lands. That in 1866 the Pioneer Iron Company
conveyed to the Iron Cliffs Company, for a period of ten years,
all its iron works, buildings, lands and property rights. The
Iron Cliffs Company afterwards became the owner of all the
stock of the Pioneer Company and thereafter taried on the
furnace business. That the Pioneer Iron Company was re,
garded as merged in the Iron Cliffs Company, and never thereafter made or filed any reports as required by the laws of the
State of Michigan. That the complainants and those under
whom they claim right and title, beginning about the year
1870, spent large sums of money in exploring and developing.
the lands and opening valuable mines thereon, and that therights thus acquired, with the knowledge of those in interest,
had worked an estoppel of any claim of right under the lease.
For these, among other reasons, the Supreme Court affirmed
the decree of the Circuit Court.
It is apparent that the questions decided in the state Supreme Court were of a non-Federal character, and give no right
of review here unless it is true that in this judgment the Pioneer
Iron Company has been concluded, and its property rights
taken without giving it an opportunity of being heard in the
case. It is fundamental that no person can be deprived of
property rights by any decree in a case wherein he is not a
party. Not being made a party to the suit, the rights of the

OCTOBER. TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

Pioneer Iron Company cannot be affected in any way by the
decision of the court. Finley v. United States Bank, 11
Wheat. 304, 307; New Orleans Water Works v. New Orleans,
164 U. S. 471, 480.
But it is urged that, notwithstanding the Pioneer Iron Company is not a party to the record, its rights are necessarily
adjudged in the decision which affects the lease granted to it,
and under which the defendants in their answer claim to act.
But we cannot concede this proposition. It may be answered
primarily that the Pioneer Iron Company cannot thus be denied
its rights. The affirmative relief granted to the complainant
must be on the case made in the bill, its amendment, and the
testimony supporting the allegations therein made. The bill
proceeds upon the theory that under the laws of the State of
Michigan the -charter of the Pioneer Iron Company had expired in 1887, thirty years from the date of its organization,
and there was the most careful avoidance in the pleadings of
the complainant of any recognition of the existence as a going
coiporation of the Pioneer Iron Company. It was charged in
the bill that its corporate existence had ended, and so far from
making it a party the complainants refrained from recognizing
it as an existing corporation, and the relief sought was against
the corporations and persons named and made defendants in
their own right and not as agents of the Pioneer Iron Company, but who were alleged and found to be using the name
of that corporation as a cover for wrongful acts of their own.
The mere fact that the defendants sought to justify their acts
as agents of the Pioneer Iron Company would not warrant the
court in awarding a decree against that company or its agents,
neither being made a party to the record. Nor, in our opinion,
did the judgment rendered have this effect. In the case of
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, where a suit was brought in
South Carolina to recover possession of certain real property
in that State, one of the defendants answered that he had no
personal interest in the property except as Secretary of the
State of South Carolina, in which capacity alone he had ac-

IRON CLIFFS CO. v. NEGAUNEE IRON CO.
197 U. S.

473

Opinion of the Court.

quired the control of the property. It was argued that in that
evefit the suit could not be maintained, because it was in fact
an action against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment, and the judgment of the court concluded the
State. To this contention this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, made answer:
"It is said that the judgment in this case may conclude the
State. Not so. It is a judgment to the effect only that, as
between the plaintiff and the defendants, the former is entitled
to possession of the property in question, the latter having
shown no volid authority to withhold possession from the
plaintiff; that the assertion by the defendants of a right to
remain in possession is without legal foundation. The State
not being a party to the suit, the judgment will not conclude
it. Not having submitted its rights to the determination of
the court in this case, it will be open to the State to bring any
action that may be appropriate to establish and protect whatever claim it has to the premises in dispute. Its claim, if it
means to assert one, will thus be brought to the test of the law
as administered by tribunals ordained to determine controverted rights of property; and the record in this case will not
be evidence against it for any purpose touching the merits of
its claim."
So in this case, notwithstanding the answer of the defendants justifying, as agents of the Pioneer Iron Company, the
bill made neither the company nor any agent of it as such a
party to the proceedings. The mere fact that the claim is
made that the Pioneer Iron Company will be concluded can
have no effect upon it so long as it has not submitted its rights
to adjudication by voluntary proceedings on its part or been
brought into court by proper process. It is true the defendants claim the charter of the company has been renewed and
that it is still a going corporation. It is conceded that at the
date of its origin the constitution of the State of Michigan
prohibited the organization of corporations for a period greater
than thirty years. That the Supremie Court of Michigain did

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

not intend to adjudicate that the Pioneer Iron Company if
reorganized was concluded by the decree of the Circuit Court,
is shown by the language used in the conclusion of its opinion:
"The constitution, at the date of its organization and at the
expiration of its charter, expressly prohibited the organization
of corporations beyond the period of thirty years. No provisions then existed, either by the constitution or by the statute, authorizing a reorganization of corporations which had
expired by limitation. A constitutional amendment was
adopted in 1889, authorizing the legislature to provide by general laws for one or more extensions of the term of such corporations, and also for the reorganization 'for a further period not
exceeding thirty years of such corporations whose terms have
expired by limitation, on consent of not less than four-fifths
of the capital.' Pursuafnt to this authority the legislature in
1889 passed an act authorizing such reorganization. 2 Comp.
Laws, ยง 7035. Very important questions are raised by counsel
as to the effect of this reorganization statute, the validity of
the act of reorganization by the Pioneer Iron Company, as to
whether the Pioneer Iron Company was in position to avail
itself of this statute, and also the effect upon the ninety-nine
year lease should the reorganization be held to be valid. Inasmuch, however, as these questions are not essential to a
decision of the case, we refrain from determining them,"
But it is said the Supreme Court affirmed the decree of the
lower court, in which the defendants were enjoined in a representative capacity, and that this includes them as agents of the
Pioneer Iron Company, and that when the agents of the company are enjoined the decree amounts to a judgment against
the corporation which they represent. But in view of the
pleadings, as already stated, and the claim made and insisted
upon by the complainants that there was no Pioneer Iron
Company in existence, we think the language in the decree
has reference to the injunction and order against the corporations and individuals made defendants and their attorneys,
solicitors 'nd agents, in their representative capacity, that is,

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
197 U. S.

Syllabus.

as representing the defendants in any of the ways mentioned.
The decree was rendered after finding in favor of the complainants' theory of tiecase, and had the effect to require the
defendants to the bill, their agents and attorneys, to vacate
the premises, and enjoined them from further mining thereon.
It is utterly inconsistent with the proceedings and the decree
to enlarge the judgment so as to include agents of the Pioneer
Iron Company. If it should hereafter be insisted that the
rights of that company or its agents are concluded, a Federal
question might arise if such effect shall be given to the decree
in this action. In our view of this case there is nothing in the
proceedings or decree in anywise conclusive of the rights of the
Pioneer Iron Company, if it is held to be a living corporation,
or any of its duly authorized agents acting in its behalf.
We, therefore, find that no Federal question arises upon this
record. The proceedings in this court will be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. CADARR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 438. Argued February 28,Mareh 1, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

Section 939 of the District of Columbia Code, providing that if any person
charged with a criminal offense shall have been committed or held to

bail to await the action of the grand jury, and the grand jury does not
act within nine months the prosecution on the charge shall be deemed
to be abandoned and the. accused set free or his bail discharged, is not a
statute of limitations, and does not repeal or affect the general statute
of limitations in force in the District, ยง 1044 Rev. Stat., and a person,
who in this case had not made any application under ยง 939 to be released
from bail, may be held to answer upon an indictment found more than
nin, months after he was arrested and held to bail.
It wo.-4 require clear aud speci,:-' snguage to indicate a legislative intent

