Oc(FOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

It is suggested that the affirnance by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of an interlocutory decree appointing a receiver and
issuing a preliminary injunction against Stillman and Carson
using the judgmerit for the purpose of depriving the other
parties in interest of their rights in the $160,000, in some way
prejudices the present appeal. It is enough to say that the
action of the Circuit Court of Appeals was on the appeal of
Carson alone, Stillman not having appeared in the action.
Decree reversed, with directions to make restitution to the
appellant and to dismiss the bill.

H. HACKFELD AND COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 164. Argued March 6,1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

Section 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, which imposes upon
one who has brought immigrants into the United States not permitted
to land here, the duty of returning them to the place from whence they
came, with a penalty in case the duty is neglected, is a highly penal
statute and must be strictly construed; the word "neglect" cannot be
construed so as to make the shipowner or master an insurer of the absolute return of the immigrant at all hazards, but it does require him to
take every precaution to prevent the immigrant from escaping and holds
him to the care and diligence required by the circumstances.
Where in an action under ยง 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, the Attorney
General and the other party have stipulated the facts as to the escape
of immigrants and that the escape did not occur by reason of any negligence or want of proper care on the part of the master or officers of the
vessel, the court cannot regard the stipulation as to lack of negligence
a 1 1ere concnlusion of law and find thalt there was negligence on the cvi(lentiary
facts as stipulated. It will presume that the Attorney General
has (one his duty and not stipulated away any of the rights of the prosecution, and tle defendant is entitled to have the case tried upon the assumpt11 o0 Ion1it the ulltinate faut of n1k of negligence stipulated into the
establish,'d is well as the specific facts recited.
recood N':Is

IJACKFELD & CO.
197 U. S.

',.

UNITE)

STATES.

Statement of the Case.

THIS case is here on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit4, to review a judgment of that
court, affirming a judgment of the District Court for the District of Hawaii, in which the petitioner, lckfeld and Company, was adjudged guilty of a violation of section 10 of the
act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, and to pay a fine of $600,
for neglecting to return to the port from whence. they came,
Yokohama, Japan, two certain Japanese immigrants unlawfully in the United States, in violation of the act of Congress.
The conviction was upon information filed and trial had to the
court, a jury having been waived, and was upon a stipulated
-finding of facts, agreed upon by the attorney for the United
States and the petitioner. After statements as to the corporate character of the defendant company, and that it was
the agent of the steamship Korea, a vessel plying between the
State of California and the Empire of Japan, it is stipulated
that the -vessel brought into the port of San Francisco in the
United States two certain Japanese immigrants from Yoko'ama, Japan, on October 28, 1902; that on the following (lay,
October 29, 1902, the said Japanese were denied admission into
the United States by the board of special inquiry at the port
of San Francisco, and the said board, being duly appointed
and authorized in the premises, ordered the deportation of the
said Japanese immigrants. That on the seventh (lay of November, 1902, the said Japanese were received on board the
vessel Korea for transportation to Ja)an. The stipulaion
then recites the following facts:
"That on the twelfth (lay of November, A. D. 1902, the said
steamship Korea did arrive at the port of Honolulu, in the
District and Territory of Hawaii; that at the time of the arrival
of said steamship Korea at said port of Honolulu, the said
immigrants were still on board of said vessel; that said Japanese
immigrants, together with certain deported Chinese, were
placed in a room on board said vessel and locked up by the
steerage steward of said vessel; at 12 o'clock midnight of said
twelfth (lay of Novemiiber, A. 1). 1902, said Japanese were still

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

197 U. S.

on board said vessel in said room; that between that time and
5 o'clock on the morning of the thirteenth day of November,
A. D. 1902, said Japanese had effected their escape; that the
only method of egress was through portholes, which were
nearly 25 feet above the water; that this method of escape
could not have been reasonably anticipated by the master,
or officers, or agents of said steamship Korea; that said escape
did not occur by vis major or inevitable accident; and that said
escape did not occur by reason of any negligence or lack of
proper care on the part of the officers of the vessel or said defendant.
"That the said defendant made search for said escaped
immigrants, but up to the present time has not apprehended
the said immigrants, and said immigrants have not been returned to Japan."
From the conviction in the lower court upon these stipulated
facts a writ of error was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit. In that court, without passing upon
the question whether the statute justified conviction without
proof of negligence, it was held that the judgment of conviction
should be affirmed because the facts recited left room for the
inference that the petitioner was found guilty of negligence
in putting the Japanese in the room without taking the necessary precautions against escape through the portholes. The
stipulation that the escape did not occur by reason of negligence or lack of proper care on the part of the officers of the
vessel it was held did not bind the court nor prevent it from
placing upon the facts stipulated the construction which, in
its judgment, they should properly receive. 125 Fed. Rep.
596, 60 C. C. A. 428.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts for petitioner:

The trial court was bound by the stipulation and the claim
therein that the escape did not occur by reason of any negligence or lack of proper vare oii the part of the vessel or (e'vildaflt. '1hI s5i1)UhliOfl 11et the r(jllirients of the court.

HACKFELD & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Raimond v. Terrebonne Parish, 132 U. S. 192; Wilson v.
Merchants' L. & T. Co., 183 U. S. 121, 128. This court is
bound by the stipulation as by a finding of the lower court.
Dooley v. Pease, 88 Fed. Rep. 446; S. C., 180 U. S.126; Supervisors v. Kennicolt, 103 U. S. 554. The conviction cannot be
sustained under the act in the absence of negligence. The
act is highly penal and must be strictlyr construed. United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95.
Warren v. United States, 58 Fed. Rep. 559, is adverse to petitioner and was wrongly decided. See United States v. Spruth,
71 Fed. Rep. 678.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Robb for the United States:
The recital in the stipulation as to absence of negligence was
a conclusion of law and not of fact. Where the facts are undisputed, admitted, or, conclusively proved, negligence is a
question of law for the court. 21 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 506;
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S.408; Elliott v. Chicago,
Mil. & St. Paul Ry. Co., 150 U. S.245; Union Pac. Ry. Co. v.
McDonald, 152 U. S.262; So. Pac. Co. v. Pool, 160 U. 5. 438.
Assuming the recital as a fact such a stipulation is void
against public- policy. The transportation company was a
custodian and comes under the rule that, an officer who keeps
a prisoner so negligently that he escapes is guilty of crime.
Bishop Cr. Law., ed. 1865, ยง 392, ยง1056; 1 Russell on" Crimes,
8th Am. ed., 420; Smith v. Conmonwcatlh, 59 Pa. St. 325.
Negligence was to be presumed. Lumber Co. v. Bibb, 139
California, 325; Berkshire v. Railway Co., 28 Mo. App. 225;
Graves v. Alsap, 1 Arizona, 274, 282; Detroit v. Beckman, 34
Michigan, 125; Murphy v. People, 3 Colorado, 147; Attorney
General v. Rice, 64 Michigan, 385; Jones v. Madison County,
72 Mississippi, 777; Holmes v. Johnston, 59 Tennessee, 155;
Happel v. Brethauer, 70 Illinois, 166. The admission of specific
facts nullifies a reservaLtion (loying their legal effect. 20
Ency. Il1. & Prac., 661; Haitld v. Green, 19 California, 11:3.
The defendant was properly adjudged guilty by the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

court even if there was no evidence before the court upon
which a finding of negligence could be based.

Section 10 formed a part of the immigration act of 1891.
The Executive Department immediately took the position
that the act demanded that transportation companies bringing
immigrants whose admission the law prohibited were chargeable at all hazards with the responsibility of returning them
to the ports which from they came. This was sustained by
the courts. Warren v. United Sates, 58 Fed. Rep. 559. And
see United States v. Spruth, 71 Fed. Rep. 678.
Mn. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disposed of this case upon the
view that the- judgment of conviction would have been warranted upon the evidentiary facts stipulated, and that the
stipulation, in so far as it stated that the escape of the immigrants could not have been reasonably anticipated by the
master or officers of the steamship, and did not occur by reason
of any negligence or want of proper care upon their part, was
the statement of a mere conclusion, not binding upon the court,
and would not prevent it from rendering an independent judgment upon the facts stated. We cannot take this view of the
case. It may be conceded that where the facts are all stated,
the court cannot be concluded by a stipulation of the parties
as to the legal conclusions to be drawn therefrom, but we know
no rule of public policy which will prevent the United States
Attorney from stipulating with the defendant in a case of this
character as to the ultimate facts in the controversy. It is to
be presumed that such an officer will do his duty to the Government and not stipulate away the rights of the prosecution.
The question of negligence in a given case is not easily reduced
to one of law and, as is the case here, its presence or absence
is the ultimate question to be decided betweeh the parties.
Ordinarily, the issue of negligence is one of fact to be deter-

HACKFELD & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mined by the jury. This proposition has been so often adjudicated in this court that it is only necessary to refer to the
cases in passing. It has been held that where there is no
reasonable doubt as to the facts or the inference to be drawn
from them, the question becomes one of law. Where the state
of facts is such that reasonable minds may fairly differ upon
the question as to whether there was negligence or not, its
determination is a matter of fact for the jury to decide. Grand
Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 417; Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co. v. Griffith, 159 U. S. 603, 611; Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Gentry, 163 U. S.353, 368; Warner v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 339.
The evidentiary facts in the stipulation upon which this
case was tried are not very fully set forth, and the Government
and the defendant were content to stipulate that the method
of escape through the portholes (assuming that it was by this
means the immigrants escaped) could not have been reasonably anticipated by those in charge of the Korea, and that the
escape did not occur by reason of any negligence or lack of
proper care upon the part of the officers of the vessel or the
defendant.
We think the parties were entitled to have this case tried
upon the assumption that these ultimate facts, stipulated into
the record, were established, no less than the specific facts
recited.
We come then to the important question in this case, as to
the construction of the statute under which the petitioner was
convicted and fined. The conviction was under section 10
of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, which is as follows:
"Srw. 10. That all aliens who may unlawfully come to the
United States shalf, if practicable, be immediately sent back
on the vessel by which they were brought in. The cost of their
maintenance while on land, as well as the expense of the return
of such aliens, shall be borne by the owner or owners of the
vessel on which such aliens came; andl if any master, agent,
consignee, or owner of such vessel shall refuse to receive back

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

on board the vessel such aliens, or shall neglect to detain them
thereon, or shall refuse or neglect to return them to the port
from which they came, or to pay the cost of their maintenance
while on land, such master, agent, consignee, or owner shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by
a fine not less than three hundred dollars for each and every
offense; and any such vessel shall not have clearance from any
port of the United States while any such fine is unpaid."
The question is as to the effect of this requirement upon
shipowners who have wrongfully brought aliens into this
country, and who, having received them on board the vessel
for the purpose of returning them to the place from whence
they came, shall neglect to detain them thereon, or neglect to
return them. In this case, the court found the defendants
guilty as charged in the information in that they refused and
neglected to return to the port from whence they came the
two Japanese immigrants. It is the-contention of the Government that this statute requires of persons, situated as were
the defendants, the absolute duty of returning to the place
from whence they came, immigrants unlawfully brought into
the ports of the United States; and that the word "neglect"
as used in this statute is equivalent to the word "fail" or
"omit," and the return of the immigrants is required at all
hazards, and the vessel owner will only be relieved when the
default is the result of vis major or inevitable accident. This
contention finds support in the case of IVarren v. United States,
58 Fed. Rep. 559, decided in November, 1893, in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in which section 10 of
the act of March 3, 1891, was directly under consideration.
We are cited to no other cases construing this section wherein
it was directly involved, although in United States v. Spruth,
71 Fed. Rep. 678, a case in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, involving the eighth section of the
same act, Judge Butler criticized the decision in the Warren
case, and expressed doubts as to the construction tblwiri given
to the language of a criminal statute. The wond 'nhlc"

HACKFELD & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as sometimes used, imports an absence of care or attention in
the doing or omission of a given act, or it may be used in the
sense of an omission or failure to perform some act. To
"neglect" is not always synonymous with to "omit." Whether
the use of the term is intended to express carelessness or lack
of attention required by the circumstances, or to express merely
a failure to do a given thing, depends upon the connection in
which the term is used and the meaning intended to be expressed. These meanings find illustration in the lexical definition of the word, as well as the adjudicated cases in which it
has been construed when applied to different subjects. In
Webster's Dictionary the verb "neglect" is defined as meaning
"not to attend to with due care or attention; to forbear one's
duty in regard to; to suffer to pass unimproved, unheeded,
undone." In the Standard Dictionary the word is defined as
meaning "to fail to perform through carelessness." And in
the Century Dictionary: "1. To treat carelessly or heedlessly;
forbear to attend to or treat with respect; be remiss in attention to or duty toward; 2. To overlook or omit; disregard.
3. To omit to do or perform; let slip; leave undone; fail through
heedlessness to do' or in doing (something)."
As defined in the penal statutes of several of the States, the
word "neglect" is said to import "a want of such attention
to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission
as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own
concerns." Words and Phrases Judicially Defined, vol. 5,
p. 4940.
While the term may be used as indicative of carelessness, it
may also merely mean an omission or failure to do or perform
a given act. This meaning finds illustration in the case of
Rosenplaenter v. Roessle, 54 N. Y. 262, 266, in which a guest at
a hotel who failed to deposit his valuables for safekeeping as
required by the statute, was held to have "neglected", to deposit within the meaning of the law, for, having the opportunity
so to do, he omitted to avail himself of this means of safekeeping. An illustration of the meaning of the term when indicaVOL. oxcvii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

tive of a want of care is found in Watson v. Hall,46 Connecticut,
204, 206, inwhich case it was held that in a statute by which
a grand juror is made subject to prosecution when he shall
neglect to make reasonable complaint of a crime, the word
"neglect" was construed to be used in the sense of omission
from carelessness to do something that can be done and that
ought to be done, and the grand juror was held not to have
neglected the complaint when, after investigation, he had
become convinced that the offense should not be prosecuted.
In which sense is the term used in this statute? This is a
highly penal statute and we think the well known rule, as laid
down by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in the case of United States
v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95, is applicable here:
"The rule that penal laws are to be construed strictly is,
perhaps, not much less old than construction itself. It is
founded on the tenderness of the law for the rights of individuals; and on the plain principle that the power of punishment is vested in the legislative, not in the judicial department.
It is the legislature, not the court, which is to define a crime,
and ordain its punishment."
It is true that in the construction of penal statutes, as well
as others, the object and purpose is to ascertain the correct
meaning of the act with a view to carrying out the expressed
intent of the legislature, and penal statutes are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the
legislature. United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624. We are
-to search for the true meaning of this statute, remembering
that it undertakes to define an offense which is not to be
broadened by judicial construction so as to include acts not
intended by Congress. The statute imposes upon one who has
brought immigrants into the United States not permitted to
land here, the duty of returning them to the place from whence
they came, with a penalty by fine in case the duty is neglected.
If, by this requirement, it was intended to make the shipowner
or master an insurer of the absolute return of the immigrant,
at all hazards, except when excused by vis major or inevitable

HACKFELD & CO. v., UNITED STATES.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accident, it would seem that Congress would have chosen terms
more clearly indicative of such intention, and instead of using
a word of uncertain meaning, would have affixed the pcnalty
in cases wherein the owner or master omitted or failed to safely
return the immigrant illegally brought here, or provided some
punishment for the person who haa so far complied with the
terms of the statute as to receive the immigrant on board his
vessel, but had permitted the escape, either with or without
fault upon his part. Where the statute permits of a construction which does not require this absolute insurance of the
return of the immigrant, but holds the shipowner to the care
and diligence required by the circumstances, we do not feel
inclined to adopt the construction least favorable to the ac.cused. This statute imports a duty, and in the absence of a
requirement that it shall be performed at all hazards, we think
no more ought to be required than a faithful and careful effort
to carry out the duty imposed.
It is urged by the Government that in view of the reanactment of section 10 as section 19 of the act of 1903, 32 Stat.
1213, it is to receive a construction in harmony with the
judicial interpretation given, o the act before the revision.
While recognizing the rule that doubtful terms which have
acquired through judicial interpretation a well understood
legislative meaning are presumed to be used by the legislature
in the sense determined by authoritative decisions, The Abbotslord, 98 U. S. 440, we do not think the rule applies to this case.
So far as we know, there has been but one decision, in the
Warren case, supra, which was doubted in the Spruth case,
supra. In 1900 the construction of this act was under consideration by the Attorney General of the United States upon
a question submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury involving the remission of fines to which the owner or master of a
vessel was supposed to be liable under the terms of the act now
under consideration. In construing section 10 of the act the
Attorney General said:
"But while I assume nothing relative to the facts in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

case, with which it is your duty to deal and not mine, I am
clearly of the opinion that in a case where every precaution to
detain in safe custody and prevent escape has been rigidly
taken, and yet in some real and unforeseen emergency an
escape has occurred, there is no such neglect as the act contemplates. If the question were regarded otherwise, the act
would rather have said.'if any such alien shall escape from
such vessel, such master shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished.' " Opinions of Attorneys
General, v. 23, p. 277.
In this state of judicial and official opinion we do not think
this act can be said to have received such judicial interpretation as should control its legislative meaning. We think the
Attorney General, in the case cited, laid down the true rule,
which does not make the shipowner the insurer at all hazards
of the safe return of the immigrant, but does require every
precaution to detain him and prevent his escape.
It is further urged by the Government that if the burden
of proof in cases under this act is placed upon the prosecution,
it will be impossible to convict, as the facts and circumstances
under which the escape took place are within the knowledge
of the defendants alone. We are not dealing with the question
of burden of proof in this case, for here it is expressly stipulated
that the defendants could not have anticipated the escape by
the method employed and were not guilty of any want of care
in the premises. Undoubtedly, the act of Congress should be
given a reasonable interpretation, with a view to effect its
purpose to prevent the introduction into this country of classes
of persons excluded by the immigration laws. If this act
should be construed as requiring the return at all hazards of the
immigrants, those who are required to perform its mandate
will doubtless claim the right to use all the force necessary to
avoid the penalty of the law in delivering the immigrant to the
country or place from whence he came. What would be the
result of such power, it is easy to imagine. It is difficult to see
how/ a shipowner could insure the return of such immigrants

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. DRAINAGE COMM.

453

Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

without such confinement or imprisonment as may result in
great hardship to that class of individuals who may themselves
have had no intention to violate any law of this country. We
think this statute was intended to secure, not the delivery of
the immigrant, at all hazards, but to require good faith and full
diligence to carry him back to the port from whence he came.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and the cause remanded-to the District Court

with instructions to discharge the petitioner.

NEW ORLEANS GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. DRAINAGE
COMMISSION OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 172.

Argued March 8, 9, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

The drainage of a city in the interest in the public health and welfare is one
of the most important purposes for which the police power can be exercised.
Every reason of public policy requires that grants in the sub-surface of
streets shall be held subject to such reasonable regulation as the public
health and safety may require.
Uncompensated obedience to a regulation enacted for the public safety
under the police power of the State is not a taking of property without
due compensation.
Under the facts of this case, the changing of the location of gas pipes at the
expense of the Gas Company to accommodate a system of drainage,
which has been upheld by the state court as an execution of the police
power of the State, does not amount to a deprivation of property without
due process of law.

THE New Orleans Gas Light and Banking Company was
incorporated in 1835, and was given the exclusive privilege
of vending gas in the city of New Orleans and its faubourgs,
and thq city of La Fayette, to such persons or bodies corporate
as might voluntarily choose to contract for the same, and it

