OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

in effect, therefore nullify it altogether. Mason v. United
States, 260 U. S. 545, 553-554. No doubt, what Congress immediately had in mind was the necessity of making it clear that, notwithstanding the interest of the government in the leased lands, the right of the states to tax
improvements thereon and the output thereof should not
be in doubt; but the intention likewise to save the authority of the states in respect of all other taxable things
is made evident by the addition of the three general categories, "other rights, property or assets." We think the
proviso plainly discloses the intention of Congress that
persons and corporations contracting with the United
States under the act, should not, for that reason, be exempt from any form of state taxation otherwise lawful.
Decree affirmed.
NAMPA & MERIDIAN IRRIGATION DISTRICT v.
BOND, PROJECT MANAGER, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 135. Argued March 6, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. When an irrigation system has been completed under the Reclamation Act, subsequent construction of a drainage system to remove
injurious consequences of its normal operation on the lands included is chargeable to maintenance and operation rather than

to construction, and ยง 4 of the Reclamation Extension Act, preventing increase of construction charges when once fixed except by
agreement between the Secretary of the Interior and a majority
of water-right applicants and entrymen affected, does not apply.
P. 53.
2. This is consistent with attributing to construction the cost of
drainage provided for in the original plan because the need for
it was existent or foreseen. P. 54.
3. Where lands' of an Idaho irrigation district were included in a
federal reclamation project under a contract obliging the Government to furnish water and construct drainage works within the
district, which was done and the cost assessed as a construction

NAMPA IRR. DISTRICT v. BOND.
50

Opinion of the Court.

charge against all the project water users, the district agreeing
that the project lands in the district should pay the same operation
and maintenance charge per acre as announced by the Secretary
of the Interior for similar lands of the project, Held that the
project lands within the district were liable with the other project
lands to bear, as an operation and maintenance charge, the cost
of providing drainage for project lands outside the district which
were being ruined by seepage water from the operation of the
irrigation system. P. 53.
283 Fed. 569; 288 id. 541, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
a bill by which the Irrigation District sought to enjoin
an official of the federal Reclamation Service and a water
users' association from withholding water from lands
within the District for nonpayment of maintenance and
operation charges.
Messrs. H. E. McElroy and Will R. King for appellant.
Mr. Fremont Wood was also on the brief.
Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General and Assistant
Attorney General Ira K. Wells .were' on the brief, for
Bond.
Mr. J. D. EIdridge for Payette-Boise Water Users'
Association, Ltd.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant is an irrigation district organized as a public
corporation under the laws of Idaho. In 1915, its supply-of water being insufficient to irrigate the lands of all
its members, it entered into a contract with the United,
States, at that time engaged in the construction of the
Boise irrigation project, for water to irrigate the unsupplied lands and for the construction of a drainage system

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

within the district. The district undertook to represent
these lands in their relations to the government and collect from their owners and pay over to the government
construction installments and operation and maintenance
charges. The drainage system was constructed in accordance with the contract and the cost thereof, after deducting the amount chargeable to the old water right nonproject lands within the district, was paid by the United
States as a construction expense and, with other costs of
construction, was charged ratably against all the project
lands, being 40,000 acres within and 100,000 acres outside the district. After the construction cost, including
this drainage, had been fixed by the government, it became necessary to drain project lands outside the district
because they were being ruined for agricultural uses by
the steadily rising ground level of seepage water due directly to the operation of the irrigation system. Thereupon, the Secretary of the Interior authorized the construction of a drainage system for these lands, the cost to
be charged to operation and maintenance, and to be borne
ratably by all the water users upon project lands both
within and without the district. Appellant contended
that this expenditure was not properly chargeable to operation and maintenance but was an additional charge for
construction, which appellant could not be required to
collect and pay over under ยง 4 of the Reclamation Extension Act of August 13, 1914, c. 247, 38 Stat. 686, 687,
which provides that no increase in construction charges
shall be made after the same have been fixed except by
agreement between the Secretary of the Interior and a
majority of the water right applicants and entrymen to
be affected thereby. It was insisted further that appellant
would be precluded by state law from collecting the
charges from owners of non-project lands, because they
were not benefited. The government having threatened
that unless the charges were paid it would shut off the sup-

NAMPA IRR. DISTRICT v. BOND.
50

Opinion of the Court.

ply of water from the project lands within the district,
appellant brought this suit to enjoin such action. The
federal district court dismissed the bill, 283 Fed. 569; and
its decree was affirmed by the circuit court of appeals.
288 Fed. 541. Both courts held that the cost was a proper
charge as an operating expense and that the project lands
in the district were liable for their proportionate part.
The contract with the district, among other things, provides: "The project lands in the district shall pay the
same operation and maintenance charge per acre as announced by the Secretary of the Interior for similar lands
of the Boise Project. . . ." We agree with the courts
below that the charge in question fairly comes within this
provision.
Section 4 of the Reclamation Extension Act, supra,
prevents an increase in the construction charges to be imposed upon the water users without the consent of a
majority of them after the amount thereof has been fixed.
But this is far from saying that, after the completion of
the irrigation system in accordance with the original plan
in respect of which the construction charges were fixed,
should the need arise to remedy conditions brought about
by the use of the system, the government must bear the
expense if a majority of the water users withhold their
consent. Expenditures necessary to construct an irrigation system and put it in condition to furnish and properly
to distribute a supply of water are chargeable to construction; but when the irrigation system is completed,
expenditures made to maintain it as an efficient going
concern and to operate it effectively to the end for which
it was designed, are, at least generally, maintenance and
operating expenses. The expenditure in question was
not for extensions to new lands or for changes in or additions to the system made necessary by faulty original
construction in violation of contractual or statutory obligations, Twin Falls Co. v. Caldwell, 272 Fed. 356, 369;

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

266 U. S. 85, but was for the purpose of overcoming injurious consequences arising from the normal and ordinary
operation of the completed plant which, so far as appears,
was itself well constructed. The fact that the need of
drainage for the district lands, already existing or foreseen, had been supplied and the cost thereof charged to
all the water users as a part of the original construction,
by no means compels the conclusion that an expenditure
of the same character, the necessity for which subsequently developed as an incident of operation, is not a
proper operating charge. The same kind of work under
one set of facts may be chargeable to construction and
under a different set of facts may be chargeable to maintenance and operation. See Schmidt v. Louisville C. & L.
Ry. Co., 119 Ky. 287, 301-302. For example, headgates
originally placed are charged properly to construction;
but it does not follow that if an original headgate be
swept away, its replacement, though requiring exactly
the same kind of materials and work, may not be charged
to operation arid maintenance.
Appellant says the lands within the district are not
benefited by the drainage in question; imd, if a direct
and immediate benefit be meant that is quite true. But
it is not necessary that each expenditure for maintenance
or operation considered by itself shall directly benefit
every water user in order that he may be called upon to
pay his proportionate part of the cost. If the expenditure of today does not especiAlly benefit him, that of
yesterday has done so or that of tomorrow will do so.
The irrigation system is a unit, to be, and intended to be,
operated and maintained by the use of a common fund
towhich all the lands under the system are required to
contribute ratably without regard to benefits specifically
and -directly received from each detail to which the fund
is from time to time devoted.
This conclusion, we think, fairly accords with the principle established by the supreme court of the state in

