OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Counsel for Parties.

268 U. S.

DAVIS, AGENT, v. L. L. COHEN & COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF BRISTOL COUNTY, STATE
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 331.

Argued April 21, 1925.-Decided June 8, 1925.

1. A judgment entered in the Superior Court in Massachusetts in
accordance with a rescript from the Supreme Judicial Court on
exceptions reserved, held reviewable on writ of error directed to
the Superior Court. P. 639.
2. The cause of action for damage to goods in transport over a railroad under federal control was against the Director General of
Railroads exclusively. P. 640.
3. When such an action was erroneously brought against the railroad
company, it could not be treated as an action against the Director
General; and service of process did not bring "him into court
though made on an agent of the company who might have been
properly served in an action against the Director General. Id.
4. Where such an action against a railroad company was pending at
the termination of federal control, held, (a), that substitution, as
defendant, of the Agent appointed by the President under the
Transportation Act, 1920, is not permissible under § 206(d)
thereof, which relates only to suits previously brought against the
Director General; (b), that such substitution is in effect the commencement of a new action, and a state statute construed as
allowing this by amendment later than two years from the date
of the Transportation Act is repugnant to the time limitation in
§ 206 (a) of that Act and void. P. 642.
247 Mass, 259, reversed.

ERROR to a; judgment entered in a Superior Court of
Massachusetts upon a rescript from the Supreme Judicial
Court, in an action for damages, begun against a railroad
company, in which the Agent appointed by the President
under the Transportation Act was substituted as party
defendant.
Mr. Arthur W. Blackman for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Louis Swig for defendant in error.

DAVIS v. COHEN CO.
638

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This writ of error is brought to review a, judgment in
favor of Cohen & Co., entered in the Superior Court of
Bristol County, Massachusetts, against James C. Davis,
as Agent designated by the President under the Transportation Act, 1920.1 After a verdict had been rendered, but
before entry of judgment, the case was reported by the
Superior Court to the Supreme Judicial Court for instructions upon exceptions that had been reserved by both
parties; and thereafter, in accordance with a rescript from
the Supreme Judicial Court (247 Mass. 259), the judgment in question was entered in the Superior Court. Under the Massachusetts practice that was followed, the
judgment is to be regarded as the final decision of thehighest court of the State in which a decision could be
had; and the writ of error was therefore properly directed
to the Superior Court. McGuire v. Commonwealth, 3
Wall. 382, 386. And see Joslin Co. v. Providence, 262
U. S. 668, 673.
A petition for certiorari has also been filed, but as the
case is properly here on writ of error, that petition is
denied.
The sole question here presented is whether the provisions of the Massachusetts General Laws, c. 231, §§ 51,
138, authorizing amendments in any process, pleading, or
proceeding at any time before final judgment, as construed
and applied in this case, are invalid because of repugnancy to § 206 of the Transportation Act.
The suit was brought by Cohen & Co., in January, 1920,
against the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad
Co., to recover for damages to a carload of scrap iron
shipped over the railroad in 1918, when it was under Federal Control. While the Railroad Company was described
1 Act of Feb. 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

in the writ as a corporation "operated and controlled by
the United States Railroad Administration," the writ was
directed to, and served upon, the Railroad Company alone,
and the declaration was filed against it alone; no effort
being then made to sue the Director General. The Railroad Company appeared and filed an answer denying the
allegations of the declaration.
No further proceedings were had until September, 1922,
when on the ex parte motion of the plaintiff, the writ and
declaration were amended by striking out the name of
the Railroad Company, and substituting the name of
James C. Davis, Agent, and the Director General of Railroads, as the party defendant. An order of notice was
then served upon Davis, who appeared specially, and
moved that such service be set aside and the action against
him dismissed, on the grounds that the service was void
and the court was without jurisdiction to entertain the
action against him, because the proceeding against him
had not been instituted within the time prescribed by
§ 206 of the Transportation Act; and that any provisions
of the Massachusetts laws purporting to authorize such
proceeding were repugnant to the Transportation Act and
void. This motion was denied, and Davis was required to
answer. The case, in which, at every stage, he preserved
his original objections, finally resulted in the judgment
against him which it is now sought to review.
Our conclusions may be briefly stated. The Railroad
Company was not liable for the cause of action that had
arisen during Federal Control; the sole liability being that
of the Director General as the representative of the Government. Missouri Pacific Railroad v. Ault, 256 U. S.
554, 557. The original suit against the Railroad Company
was not a suit against the Director General, and the service of the original writ upon the Railroad Company did
not bring him before the court. While originally, after the
passage of the Federal Control Act, it was sometimes

DAVIS v. COHEN CO.
638

Opinion of the Court.

thought that the Government might be held liable in a
suit brought against the carrier, describing it as in the
hands or possession of the Director General, all doubts as
to how the suit should be brought was cleared away by
the General Order of the Director General requiring that
it should be brought against the Director General of Railroads, and not otherwise. Ault Case, supra, p. 561
(1921).2 And it is immaterial that, as admitted at bar,
the service of the writ against the Railroad Company was
made upon a clerk upon whom process against the Director General might have been served if the suit had been
brought against him. "The Federal agent was not bound
to take cognizance of an action against the railroad corporation, even though the service was on the same local
station agent, and even though the complaint stated a
cause of action for personal injuries sustained during government control." Davis v. Chris;,159 Ark. 335,'343.
The Transportation Act, which passed in February,
1920, provided that the Federal Control should terminate
on March 1, 1920. It further provided, in § 206(a), that
suits and proceedings based on causes of action arising
out of the possession, use and operation of a railroad
under Federal Control, of such character as prior thereto
could have been brought against the railroad company,
might, after the termination of Federal Control, be
brought against an agent designated by the President for
such purpose, "but not later than two years from the date
of the passage of this Act." It also provided, in § 206(d),
that actions of the character above described, pending at
the termination of Federal Control, should not abate by
reason of such termination, but might be prosecuted to
See General Order No. 50 of the Director General, Oct. 28, 1918;
amended by General Order No. 50-A, Jan. 11, 1919. U. S. Railroad
Administration Bulletin No. 4 (Revised), p. 334; and Supplement,
p. 58.
2

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

final judgment, substituting the agent designated by the
President.
At the termination of Federal Control there was no
suit pending against the Director General to enforce the
liability of the Government. The amendment of the writ
and declaration in the suit against the Railroad Company,
in October, 1922, by substituting the designated Agent as
the defendant, was, in effect, the commencement of a new
and independent proceeding to enforce this liability.
Being commenced more than two years after the passage
of the Transportation Act, it was repugnant to the provision of § 206(a) requiring such an action to be instituted
not later than two years after the passage of the Act.
This was the only consent the Government had given to
being sued in such an action after the termination of
Federal Control. Nor was this amendment authorized
under § 206(d), which related solely to the substitution
of the designated Agent as the defendant in a suit which
had been previously brought against the Director General
to enforce the liability of the Government, that is, merely
authorized the substitution, in such a suit, of another
Federal agent for the one already before the court. It
had no application to suits pending against a railroad
company alone in which there was no Federal agent for
whom the designated Agent could be substituted, where
the substitution of the designated Agent for the railroad
company would work an entire change in the cause of
action.
These conclusions, we may add, are substantially the
same as those of the State courts in Fahey v. Davis, 224
Mich. 371; Fischer v. Wabash Railway, 235 N. Y. 568;
Currie v. Louisville & Nash. Railroad,206 Ala. 402; Davis
v. Chrisp, 159 Ark., supra; and Davis v. Industrial Commission (Ill.), 146 N. E. 569.
It results that the provisions of the Massachusetts General Laws under which the plaintiff was allowed to amend

