DOULLUT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

DOULLUT & WILLIAMS COMPANY, INC., v.
UNITED STATES
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Nos. 317 and 318. Argued March 20, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
Admiralty has jurisdiction of a suit to recover damages for injuries
inflicted by merchant vessels on clusters of piles, constituting no
part or extension of the shore, driven into the bottom of a river,
in that way only attached to the land, completely surrounded by
navigable water, and used exclusively as aids to navigation. P.
34.
Reversed.
APPEALS from decrees of the District Court dismissing
for want of jurisdiction two libels brought against the
United States, under the Act of March 9, 1920, to recover
damages for injuries to piling occasioned by its vessels.

Mr. E. Howard McCaleb, for appellant, submitted.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The pleadings and proof in these causes are substantially identical except as to names of vessels, dates of accidents and damages claimed. Relying upon the act of
Congress approved March 9, 1920, c. 95, 41 Stat. 525, the
appellant instituted proceedings in admiralty to recover
damages from the United States for injuries inflicted by
their merchant vessels, The City of Elwood and The
Galveston, upon clusters of piling standing in the Mississippi River at New Orleans, one hundred and fifty feet
from low water mark. The court below dismissed the

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

libels for want of jurisdiction, and that action is now challenged.
We copy from the libels and accept the following description of the injured structures"Said piling cluster consists of five wooden piles or
timbers, each of approximately sixty feet in length, firmly
driven in and attached to the bottom of the river, fastened and held together as a unit having a diameter of
not more than four feet, the depth of the water surrounding them being at all times not less than sixteen feet, said
pile cluster extending perpendicularly about twenty-five
feet out of and above the water.

.

That at no

.

time has said pile cluster any connections either actual or
anticipated nor has it any connections for any purpose
whatever with the shore of said River or with anything on
said shores, either of a temporary, prospective or permanent character and either actual or anticipated with any
commerce on land or anything connected with land or
with the shores of said River. That libellant had and
has authority from the proper governmental authorities
to erect, maintain and use said pile cluster for such marine purposes as said cluster may be adapted and used.
That at times of the swift current of the Mississippi River and during bad weather said pile cluster is
used by vessels to tie up to so as to avoid anchor dragging
and likewise to lessen the dangers of collision with other
vessels whilst navigating in said River.

.

.

.

At no

time do any vessels use said pile cluster to load or unload
cargo or passengers, said pile cluster being incapable of
so being used and incapable of being used for any commerce on land and incapable of being used for any purpose except in the operation, maintenance and navigation
of vessels in navigable water and in aid of their navigation or in aid of commerce on water, and having no relation or connection with land or land commerce."
The damaged piles constituted no part or extension of
the shore as wharves, bridges and piers do. Although

