OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

and were not a violation of the Fourth Amendment. The
motion to quash the warrant was properly denied, and
the order of the District Court appealed from is
Affirmed.

KNEWEL, SHERIFF v. EGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 622.

Argued April 20, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. A sentence of a state court in a criminal case can not be reviewed
by habeas corpus in the federal court upon the ground that the
information was insufficient as a pleading. P. 445.
2. Nor upon the ground that the information failed to allege venue,
and that the state court denied the relator a constitutional right
by holding the defect to have been waived under a state statute by
failure to demur. P. 446.
3. Where a sheriff appealed to this court from a judgment of the
District Court in habeas corpus discharging a state prisoner from
his custody, and after going out of office, in collusion with the
prisoner, moved a dismissal of the appeal-Held that the motion
should be denied, and that motions of the sheriff's successor to
be substituted and of the State to intervene should be granted.
P. 447.
298 Fed. 784, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court in habeas
corpus, discharging the appellee from custody of the appellant as sheriff.

Mr. Byron S. Payne, with whom Messrs. Buell F. Jones,
Attorney General of South Dakota, J. D. Coon and Samuel
Herrick were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. George W. Egan, pro se.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on appeal from the District Court
of the United States for the District of South Dakota from

KNEWEL v. EGAN.
442

443

Opinion of the Court.

an order and judgment of that court on writ of habeas
corpus, discharging the appellee from the custody of the
appellant as sheriff of Minnehaha County, South Dakota.
Appellee was charged, on information by the state's
attorney of that county, with the presentation of a false
insurance claim in violation of § 4271 of the Revised
Code of 1919 of South Dakota. He was convicted of
violation of the statute, after trial by jury, in the South
Dakota Circuit Court in May, 1920, and was sentenced to
serve a term in the state penitentiary. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, judgment of conviction was
vacated and new trial granted. State v. Egan, 44 S. D.
273.
Egan was again brought to trial on the same charge in
April, 1922, and was again found guilty, and sentenced
to serve a term in the state penitentiary. Upon appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State, the judgment of conviction was affirmed. State v. Egan, 195 N. W. 642.
Before the District Court, the appellee urged, as he
urges here, two principal grounds for granting the writ,
namely, that the information on which the conviction
was had did not describe a public offense; that in it no
venue was laid and that in consequence the trial court
was without jurisdiction in the cause.
Section 4271 of the Revised Code of South Dakota,
under which the conviction was had, so far as pertinent,
reads as follows:
"Every person who presents or causes to be presented
any false or fraudulent claim, or any proof in support of
any such claim, upon any contract of insurance for the
payment of any loss, . .
is punishable by imprisonment in the state penitentiary not exceeding three years,
or by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or both."
The information charged in substance that the Firemen's
Insurance Company, a corporation of Newark, New Jersey, was empowered to do business in the State of South
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Dakota and in pursuance of this authority insured certain
property of petitioner located in Minnehaha County; that
the property was destroyed by fire and that thereafter petitione presented a false claim to its agents; the language
of the information being "and that thereafter and on or
about the 9th day of January, 1920, the said defendant,
George W. Egan then and there did wilfully, unlawfully
and feloniously present and cause to be presented to F. C.
Whitehouse & Co., who were at that time acting as the
agents for the Firemen's Insurance Company of Newark,
New Jersey, a false and fraudulent claim and proof in support of such claim."
The Circuit Court of Minnehaha County, in which appellee's trial and conviction were had, by the provisions
of the Constitution of South Dakota (§ 14, Article 5) and
the Revised Code of South Dakota, 1919, § 4653, is given
original jurisdiction of all actions and causes both at
law and in equity and original jurisdiction to try and determine all cases of felony. It accordingly had plenary
jurisdiction to try the charge of violation of § 3271 of
the Revised Code which makes the presentation of false
or fraudulent insurance claims a. crime punishable by
imprisonment in the state penitentiary, which, by § 3573
is made a felony. The Circuit Court is not limited in its
jurisdiction by the statutes of the State to any particular
county. Its jurisdiction extends as far as the statute law
extends in its application; namely throughout the limits
of the State. The only limitation in this regard, contained in the statute, is found in § 4654 which provides
ini substance that the issue of fact in any criminal case
can only be tried in the court in which it is brought, or to
which the place of trial is changed by order of the court.
Section 4771 provides that defendant may demur to the
information when it appears upon its face " that the court
is without jurisdiction of the offense charged." Section
4779 provides that objections to which demurrers may be

KNEWEL v. EGAN.
442

Opinion of the Court.

interposed under § 4771 are waived, with certain exceptions not here material, unless taken by demurrer.
Appellee pleaded "not guilty" to the indictment. His
application, made later, to withdraw the plea and demur
was denied, the court acting within its discretionary
power. State v. Egan, 195 N. W. 642. The Supreme
Court of South Dakota, in sustaining the verdict and upholding the conviction held that the information sufficiently charged a public offense under § 4271, 44 S. D.
273, and it also held that the objection to the failure to
state the venue in the information was waived by the
failure to demur. From the foregoing it will be observed
that what appellee is really seeking on this appeal is a
review on habeas corpus of the determination of the
Supreme Court of South Dakota that the information was
sufficient as a pleading and a determination that the decision of the state court holding that under the Revised
Code of 1919 (§§ 4725, 4771, 4779) the appellee waived
the objection that the information did not state the venue
by not demurring, was a denial of his constitutional rights
which can be reviewed on habeas corpus.
It is the settled rule of this Court that habeas corpus
calls in question only the jurisdiction of the court whose
judgment is challenged. Andrews v. Swarz, 156 U. S.
272; Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S. 655; In re Lennon,
166 U. S. 548; Felts v. Murphy, 201 U. S. 123; Valentina
v. Mercer, 201 U. S. 131; Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309.
A person convicted of crime by a judgment of a state
court may secure the review of that judgment by the
highest state court and if unsuccessful there may then
resort to this Court by writ of error if an appropriate federal question be involved and decided against him; or,
if he be imprisoned under the judgment, he may proceed
by writ of habeas corpus on constitutional grounds summarily to determine whether he is restrained of his liberty by judgment of a court acting without jurisdiction.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

See Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241. But if he pursues
the latter remedy, he may not use it as a substitute for
a writ of error. Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; In re Coy,
127 U. S.731. It is fundamental that a court upon which
is conferred jurisdiction to try an offense has jurisdiction
to determine whether or not that offense is charged or
proved. Otherwise every judgment of conviction would
be subject to collateral attack and review on habeas corpus on the ground that no offense was charged or proved.
It has been uniformly held by this Court that the sufficiency of an indictment cannot be reviewed in habeas
corpus proceedings. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters 193; Ex
parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Ex parte Parks, supra;
In re Coy, supra.; Bergemann v. Backer, supra; Howard
v. Fleming, 191 U. S. 126; Dimmick v. Tompkins, 194
U. S. 540; In re Eckart, 166 U. S. 481; Goto v. Lane, 265
U. S. 393.
Appellee stands in no better situation with respect to
the failure to allege venue in the information. A mere
failure to allege venue and thus to show affirmatively
that the crime was committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the court, does not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the cause and the sufficiency of the indictment cannot be called in question upon habeas corpus.
Even though an indictment thus drawn might have been
found defective upon demurrer or writ of error, it is not
so fatal, upon its face, as to be open to collateral attack
after trial and conviction. United States v. Pridgeon,
153 U. S.48, p. 59; and see State v. Egan, 44 S.D. 273,
277.
Moreover, as this case was conducted in the state court,
the ultimate question presented is whether the procedure established by the statutes of South Dakota providing that failure to allege venue in the information is
waived, unless demurred to, is a denial of a constitutional right. With respect to that question, we hold, as

KNEWEL v. EGAN.
442

Opinion of the Court.

this Court has repeatedly held, that the judgment of state
courts in criminal cases will not be reviewed on habeas
corpus merely because some right under the Constitution of the United States is alleged to have been denied
to the person convicted. The proper remedy is by writ
of error. Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S. 184. And see
Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284, and Tinsley v. Anderson,
171 U. S. 101, 104. See also, with respect to review, on
habeas corpus, of judgments of United States District
Courts, Riddle v. Dyche, 262 U. S.333, and Craigv. Hecht,
263 U. S.255. The judgment of the District Court was
without warrant under the decisions of this Court and
must be reversed.
The appeal in this case was applied for by counsel for
the appellant; an assignment of errors was filed and the
appeal was allowed conditional upon filing the usual appeal bond. The bond was executed by appellant, and was
duly approved and filed.
Later a motion was made to this Court by other counsel
appearing for appellant for that purpose, to strike from
the record the brief and argument filed on his behalf by
the counsel by whom the appeal was taken, on the ground
that appellant never authorized the preparation or presentation of any brief in this proceeding, and that he never
authorized any attorneys to appear in this Court for him
as appellant. Motion has also been made on the same
ground by appellee to strike from the record the brief
filed in behalf of appellant and to dismiss the appeal. The
affidavit of appellant in support of appellee's motion purports to show that the appeal was taken by members of
the bar representing the Attorney General of South Dakota, and that the appeal was taken without appellant's
unqualified approval, and states that he is satisfied with
the decision of the District Court in the premises and that
he desires the appeal to be dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The attorneys who took the appeal have also filed a
motion to substitute for the appellant one Boardman, who
since the taking of the appeal has been duly elected sheriff
in the place of appellant and who consents to the substitution. The State of South Dakota also has filed a motion
by its Attorney General appearing by the counsel who
took the appeal, to be allowed to intervene on this appeal.
All the motions referred to are now pending.
The affidavit of appellant in support of appellee's motion to dismiss discloses an obviously collusive attempt by
appellant and appellee to defeat the ends of justice by
dismissing the appeal without the consent of any officer
representing either the State or the present sheriff, who
are the real parties in interest as appellants. Appellant
in his affidavit admits that, while he was in office as
sheriff, he took the present appeal and he executed the
appeal bond. He is therefore in this Court as party
appellant; the Court has full jurisdiction of the appeal
and it cannot be withdrawn without its consent. The real
parties in interest in prosecuting the appeal are the State
and the present sheriff, who is a public officer representing
the county and the State. The substitution of the sheriff
as appellant should be made. (Thompson v. United
States, 103 U. S. 480, at p. 483) and the State be allowed
to intervene.
The motion to dismiss the appeal is denied.
The motions for substitution of the present sheriff for
the appellant and for the intervention by the State are
granted.
The order of the District Court discharging the appellee
from custody is reversed and the case remanded to the District Court with direction to remand him to the custody
of the present sheriff.
Reversed.

