OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

SELZMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 998.

Submitted April 27, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.

1. Under the Eighteenth Amendment Congress has power to prevent or regulate the sale of denatured alcohol which is not usable
as a beverage. P. 467.
2. The power of the Federal Government, granted by the Amendment, to enforce the prohibition of the manufacture, sale and
transportation of intoxicating liquor carries with it power to enact
any legislative measures reasonably adapted to promote the
purpose. P. 468.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court based on
convictions under two indictments, the one charging conspiracy to violate the Prohibition Act and regulations, in
offering denatured alcohol for sale without the required
labels, the other charging sale of it for beverage purposes,
etc.

Messrs. Gerald J. Pilliod and J. C. Breitenstein, with
whom Mr. B. H. Schwartz was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
The Solicitor General, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Willebrandt and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE TAFT delivered the bpinion of the

Court.
Meyer Selzman was tried and convicted on two indictments in the District Court. The first charged him,
Martin Bracker, Harry Porter and others with a violation
of § 37 of the Criminal Code in conspiring to violate

SELZMAN v. UNITED STATES.
466

Opinion of the Court.

§ 15, Title III, of the National Prohibition Act (enacted
October 28, 1919, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305) and the regulations
relating to the manufacture and distribution of industrial
alcohol prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, pursuant to the provisions of Title III of the Act,

in that they knowingly offered for sale completely denatured alcohol in packages containing less than five wine
gallons, without having affixed to the packages a label
containing the words "Completely denatured alcohol",
together with the word "Poison" and a statement of the
danger from its use. United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506.
Selzman was also convicted under four counts of the
second indictment of violating § 4 of Title II of the Act
forbidding the sale of denatured alcohol for beverage purposes or under circumstances from which the seller may
reasonably infer the intention of the purchaser to use it
for such purpose.
This is a writ of error under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
on the ground that the provisions of the Prohibition
Act in respect to denatured alcohol under which these
indictments were found exceed the power of Congress.
Whether this is a sound contention is the only question
for our decision.
It is said that the Eighteenth Amendment prohibits
the manufacture, sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquor for beverage purposes only, and that, as denatured
alcohol is not usable as a beverage, the amendment does
not give to Congress authority to prevent or regulate its
sale, and that such authority remains with the States and
is within their police power exclusively.
Reference is had to the part of § 1 of Title II of the
Prohibition Act (41 Stat. 307), as follows:
"Sec. 1. When used in Title II and Title III of this
Act (1) The word 'liquor' or the phrase 'intoxicating
liquor' shall be construed to include alcohol, brandy,

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

26S U.S.

whiskey, rum, gin, beer, ale, porter, and wine, and in
addition thereto any spirituous, vinous, malt, or fermented liquor, liquids, and compounds, whether medicated, proprietary, patented, or not, and by whatever
name called, containing one-half of 1 per centum or more
of alcohol by volume which are fit for use for beverage

purposes."
This, it is said, is a proper construction and limitation
of what the Eighteenth Amendment was intended to prohibit and excludes denatured alcohol, although intoxicating, because not fit for beverage purposes. The argument
is without force.
In order that the uses of alcohol might not be lost to
the arts by reason of the then heavy internal revenue
tax, Congress made provisions (Act of June 7, 1906,
c. 3047, 34 Stat. 217, Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2571, 34
Stat. 1250, and Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, § IV, N,
sub-sect. 2, 38 Stat. 114, 199) by which alcohol was made
tax free if denatured so that it could not be used for a
beverage and evade the federal tax on the potable article.
Any attempt to recover the alcohol thus denatured for
beverage purposes was punished. The plaintiff in error's
suggestion is that this was then within the power of
Congress because necessary to protect its power of levying an excise tax on liquor under Section 8, Art. 1, of the
Constitution; but that as there is now no tax upon alcohol
to protect, denatured alcohol has passed out of the domain
of Congressional action. But surely the denaturing of
alcohol is now as necessary in maintaining its use in the
arts and prohibiting its use as a beverage, as it was formerly needed to permit its use in the arts and to prevent
its consumption as a beverage without paying the tax.
The power of the Federal Government, granted by the
Eighteenth Amendment, to enforce the prohibition of
the manufacture, sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquor carries with it power to enact any legislative meas-

