CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. ANDERSON COUNTY. 93
Opinion of the Court.

CENTRAL UNION TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. ANDERSON COUNTY, TEXAS. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF*THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS. --

No. 178.

Argued January 16, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. An ancillary suit may be maintained by the plaintiff in the
principal suit against strangers to the record to determine a
controversy related to property in the custody of the court and
which, in justice to the parties before the court, ought to be
determined in the principal suit. P. 96.
2. A bill brought by a trustee for railway bond holders against
the railway, a county, a city, state officials and citizens to enjoin further assertion of claims that the general offices, °shops,
and round houses of the railway must be kept at the city; held,
within the jurisdiction of the District Court as ancillary to "and dependent on a pending suit brought by the trustee against the
railway to foreclose the mortgage. Id.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill for want of jurisdiction.
APPEAL

Mr. S. B. Dabney and Mr. H. M. Garwood, for appel-

lant, submitted.
M~r. Nelson Phillips, with whom M~essrs. MIurphy V.
Townsend, A. G. Greenwood, and A. M. Barton were-6n

the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The complaint in this case was filed as ancillary to and
dependent on a suit for the foreclosure of a mbrtgage on
railroad properties. On the motion of defendants, the
district court held that it had no jurisdiction and dismissed the cause. This i-an appeal from that decree.
The question of jurisdiction alone is certified. Judicial
Code, § 238.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

In 1911, the International & Great Northern Railway
Company was organized, and acquired under mortgage
foreclosure sale all the property of the International &
Great Northern Railroad Company. At the time of the
purchase, the railway company made a mortgage of all
its properties to appellant. The latter brought suit in
equity against the railway company to foreclose the mortgage, and, August 10, 1914, the court appointed receivers
who took possession of and operated the property. May
17, 1915, the court entered a decree of foreclosure, providing that, if the company failed to pay the mortgage
debt, $12,908,461.06, with interest, the property should
be sold. Pursuant to the decree, all the property, consisting of 1106 miles of railroad, all money, claims and
assets in the hands of the receiver, was sold for $5,000,000,
subject to the lien of a first mortgage and other existing
obligations, as well as such obligations as the court thereafter should fix. By decree of August 10, 1922, the court
confirmed the sale and directed the execution of a deed
to the International-Great Northern Railroad Company.
June 5, 1922, before the sale, appellant filed this complaint. The defendants were the railway company, Anderson County, Texas, the county judge, the clerk of the
county court, the city of Palestine in that county, its
mayor, and certain of its citizens as representatives of all
similarly situated. The complaint alleges as follows.
The defendants, except the railway company, were asserting that in 1872 and 1875 contracts were 'made with the
predecessors of the railway company which, taken with an
act of the -legislature of Texas of 1889, amended in 1899,
operated to require the original contracting companies and
all successors in title forever to maintain the general offices, shops and roundhouses at Palestine. In 1912, the
defendants had sued the railway company in the state
district court and obtained a decree requiring it forever
to keep its general offices, shops and roundhouses at Pales-

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. ANDERSON COUNTY. 95
93

Opinion of the Court.

tine.* Although, at the time of bringing suit, defendants
had knowledge of the existence of the mortgage, they
failed to make plaintiff a party to the suit. They insist
that the decree is res adjudicata and binding against
plaintiff and any purchaser under the foreclosure sale; and
they threaten, if it -is not observed by the purchaser, to
enforce the decree with penalties. It is impossible to
maintain the general offices, shops and roundhouses at
Palestine without great loss and injury to and burden on
the railroad property. The claims of defendants, if
maintained, will cause a net loss in operating the railroad
of not less than $500,000 per year, and thereby diminish
the value of the property by not less than $3,000,000, and
constitute a cloud and burden on the title and value of the
property. The alleged contracts of 1872 and 1875 were
never made; and if made, never became binding on the
successors of the corporations with whom they were made,
and are not binding upon plaintiff or any purchaser under the foreclosure decree. Defendants, without equity
or right, are clouding the title and burdening the property to the great injury of plaintiff, its trust, and any purchaser of the property. The suit is brought in aid of the
principal cause and the decree of foreclosure and for the
benefit of the plaintiff and any purchaser under the decree, and for the purpose of determining whether the
claims of Anderson County, Palestine and its citizens are
valid in law or equity. By appropriate provisions in the
decree of May 17, 1915, foreclosing the mortgage and authorizing the sale, and in the decree of August 10, 1922,
confirming the sale and directing conveyance to the
purchaser, the court retained jurisdiction to determine any
* The act above referred to is now Articles 6423, 6424 and 6425,
Revised Statutes of Texas. The substance of the statutory provisions and litigation is disclosed by the decisions in the case, which
are reported, repectively, in 150 S. W. 239; 106 Texas 60; 174 S.W.
305; 246 U. S. 424.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268U.S.

questions affecting the title to the property or that are
germane to the purpose or substance of this suit. Plaintiff prays that the court forever enjoin defendants from
asserting, or in any court attempting to enforce, their
claims that such offices, shops and roundhouses shall be
kept at Palestine, and that it decree the railroad property
to be free from the burden and cloud of such claims.
If the complaint discloses a controversy that is ancillary
to and dependent on the foreclosure suit, the district court
had jurisdiction. The rule permitting third persons to
come into suits in federal courts to enforce their claims in
respect of property there-impounded is stated in Hoffman
v. McClelland, 264 U. S. 552, 558: "It is settled that where
in the progress of a suit in a federal court property has
been drawn into the court's custody and control, third
persons claiming interests in or liens upon the property
may be permitted to come into that court for the purpose
of setting up, protecting and enforcing their claims,although the court could not consider or adjudicate their
claims if it had not impounded the property. Power to
deal with such claims is incident to the, jurisdiction acquired in the suit wherein the impounding occurs, and
may be invoked by a petition to intervene pro interesse
suo or by a dependent bill. But in either case the proceeding is purely ancillary." Ancillary suits are not limited to those initiated by persons who desire to come in
and have their rights determined. Such a suit may be
maintained by the plaintiff in the principal suit against
strangers to the record to determine a controversy having
relation to the property in the custody of the court and
which, in justice to the parties before the court, ought to.
be determined in the principal suit. See Compton v.
Jesup, 68 Fed. 263, 284. Street, Fed. Eq. Pr. § 1248.
The provision-of the decree of May 17, 1915, retaining
jurisdiction, extended to all questions not determined and
reserved the right to resell the property in case the pur-

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. ANDERSON COUNTY. 97
93

Opinion of the Court.

chaser should fail to make any payment on account of
purchase price within a specified time after the order requiring it. The decree of August 10, 1922, confirming the
sale, retained jurisdiction over the property with reference to all claims against the railway company and to
enforce payment of any judgment therefor out of the
property sold. It reserved all questions relating "to suits
now pending in this Court in this cause, or affecting the
property above dealt with . . . for further hearing
and determination
"
In view of the reservations in these decrees, the sale and delivery of the railroad properties to the purchaser did not deprive the court
of jurisdiction over the property or terminate plaintiff's
right to carry on this suit. Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert
College, 208 U. S. 38, 54; Julian v. Central Trust Co.,
193 U. S.93,,111; Smith v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 266
Fed. 653.
Taking the allegations of the complaint to be true, the
maintenance of the general offices, shops and roundhouses
at Palestine burdens and restricts operation, requires great
and unnecessary expenditures and correspondingly diminishes the value of the railroad. If, as asserted ,inthe
complaint, the -claims and insistence of the defendants
are groundless, plaintiff had a right to have the property
sold free from such burdens and restrictions. The controversy has direct relation to the operation, use and value
of the railroad property, and must be held to be ancillary
to and dependent on the foreclosure suit. The district
court had jurisdiction and should have heard -and determin6d the merits.
Decree reversed.

