CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
A. J. OLIVER, AS TRUSTEE, ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.

180. Submitted March 2, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

Under § 64 of the Bankruptcy Act, federal and state taxes are to
be paid in full before paying claims for preferred wages, unless
it clearly appear that the particular tax in question has been
subordinated to such claims by some relevant federal or local law.
City of Richmond v. Bird, 249 U. S. 174.
290 Fed. 160, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
giving wages priority over taxes in a bankruptcy case.
See 283 Fed. 351.

Messrs. Reuben G. Hunt and Lewis V. Crowley for
petitioners.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court..
The bankrupt's estate consisted of personal property
only, and there is no suggestion of a lien thereon to se-

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

cure any of the claims now under consideration. The
fund derived from conversion of all the property is insufficient fully to satisfy taxes due the United States and the
City and County of San Francisco, and the allowed claims
for preferred wages. Which of these must be paid first is
the question for decision. The referee ruled in favor of
the wages, and the District Court approved; but the Circuit Court of Appeals held to the contrary and directed
that priority should be given the taxes.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 563,
provides"Sec. 64. Debts which have priority.-a. The court shall
order the trustee to pay all taxes legally due and owing by
the bankrupt to the United States, State, county, district,
or municipality in advance of the payment of dividends
to creditors, and upon filing the receipts of the proper
public officers for such payment he shall be credited with
the amount thereof, and in case any question arises as to
the amount or legality of any such tax the same shall be
heard and determined by the court.
"b. The debts to have priority, except as herein provided, and to be paid in full out of bankrupt estates, and
the order of payment shall be (1) the actual and necessary cost of preserving the estate subsequent to filing the
petition; (2) the filing fees paid by creditors in involuntary cases (3) the cost of administration, including the
fees and mileage payable to witnesses as now or hereafter
provided by the laws of the United States, and one reasonable attorney's fee, for the professional services actually rendered, irrespective of the number of attorneys
employed, to the petitioning creditors in involuntary
cases, to the bankrupt in involuntary cases while performing the duties herein prescribed, and to the bankrupt
in voluntary cases, as the court may allow; (4) wagesdue to workmen, clerks, or servants which have been
earned within three months before the date of the com-

OLIVER v. UNITED STATES.
I

Opinion of the Court.

mencement of proceedings not to exceed three hundred
dollars to each claimant; and (5) debts owing to any
person who by the laws of the States or the United States
is entitled to priority."
Guarantee Co. v. Title Guaranty Co., 224 U. S. 152,
159, 160, held that under § 64 wages were entitled to
priority over the claim of the United States for damages
occasioned by the bankrupt's failure to comply with a
construction contract. It was there said"By the statute of 1797 (now Sec. 3466) and Sec. 5101
of the Revised Statutes all debts due to the United States
were expressly given priority to the wages due any operative, clerk, or house servant. A different order is prescribed by the Act of 1898, and something more. Labor
claims are given priority, and it is provided that debts
having priority shall be paid in full. The only exception
is 'taxes legally due and owing by the bankrupt to the
United States, State, county, district or municipality.'
These were civil obligations, not personal conventions, and
preference was given to them, but as to debts we must
assume a change of purpose in the change of order. And
we cannot say that it was inadvertent. The Act takes
into consideration, we think, the whole range of indebtedness of the bankrupt-national, State and individualand assigns the order of payment. The policy which it
dictated was beneficent and well might induce a postponement of the claims, even of the sovereign, in favor of those
who necessarily depended upon their daily labor. And to
give such claims priority could in no case seriously affect
the sovereign. To deny them priority would in all cases
seriously affect the claimants."
In City of Richmond v. Bird, 249 U. S. 174, 177, past
due taxes were denied priority of payment over a debt
secured by a lien which the state law recognized as superior to the city's claims for such taxes. We said"Respondents therefore must prevail unless priority
over their lien is given by Sec. 64a to claim for taxes

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
268 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

which, under State law, occupied no better position than
one held by a general creditor. Section 67d, Bankruptcy
Act, quoted supra, declares that liens given or accepted in
good faith and not in contemplation of or in fraud upon
this Act, shall not be affected by it. Other provisions
must, of course, be construed in view of this positive one.
Section 64a directs that taxes be paid in advance of
dividends to creditors; and 'dividend,' as commonly used
throughout the Act, means partial payment to general
creditors. In Sec. 65b, for example, the word occurs in
contrast to payment of debts which have priority. And
as the local laws gave no superior right to the City's unsecured claim for taxes we are unable to conclude that
Congress intended by Sec. 64a to place it ahead of valid
lien holders."
Of course, this opinion must be read in the light of
the question under consideration-Does § 64 require
that taxes shall be paid in advance of debts secured
by liens which under the local law are superior to claims
for such taxes? We pointed out that § 67d preserves valid
liens and is not qualified by the direction of § 64a to
discharge taxes "in advance of the payment of dividends
to creditors," since "'dividend', as commonly used
throughout the Act, means partial payment to general
creditors." We did not undertake to decide in what order, as among themselves, taxes and the debts specified
by § 64 should be satisfied; that point was not presented.
The language of § 64 has caused much uncertainty;
and widely different views of its true meaning may be
found in the opinions of District Courts and Circuit
Courts of Appeals.
Paragraph "a" directs that "the court shall order the
trustee to pay all taxes legally due and owing

.

.

.

in

advance of [not next preceding] the payment of dividends
to creditors "-that is, partial payments to general creditors. City of Richmond v. Bird, supra. It does not un-

