OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Decree.

268 U. S.

specifically held, in a case precisely similar to the present,
that the loss deductible by the taxpayer was limited to
the difference between the purchase and selling prices,
although on January 1, 1919 the property had a higher
value than when it was purchased, and the loss if computed from that date would have been greater than when
computed from the purchase price. People ex rel. Keim
v. Wendell, 200 App. Div. 388.
The judgment of the District Court is accordingly affirmed, and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS
LAND

and MR.

JUSTICE SUTHER-

dissent.

STATE OF NEW MEXICO v. STATE OF COLORADO
IN

No. 12, Original.

EQUITY

Decree Entered April 13, 1925.

Decree adjudging that the bill of New Mexico be dismissed and the
cross bill of Colorado be sustained; declaring the true boundary
between the two States; appointing and instructing a commissioner
to run, locate and mark the same, subject to approval of the
Court; with provisions for transmitting copies of the commissioner's report and map, when filed, to the governors of the two States,
defining the time fcr objections and exceptions, providing for possible vacancy in the commissionership, and equally dividing the
costs of suit.

Announced by Mr.

JUSTICE SANFORD.

This cause having been heard and submitted, and the
Court having considered the same and announced its conclusions in an opinion delivered January 26, 1925, [267
U. S. 30],
It is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
1. The bill of the State of New Mexico is dismissed,
and the cross-bill of the State of Colorado is sustained.

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
108

Decree.

2. The true and lawful boundary between the State of
New Mexico and the State of Colorado consists of the
following connecting lines: (a) The line extending westwardly from what is known as the Preston Monument,
marking the intersection of the thirty-seventh parallel of
north latitude with the Cimarron Meridian (the onehundred and third) of longitude west from Greenwich, to
what is known as the Macomb Monument. as the said line
was surveyed and niarked in the year 1900 by Levi S.
Preston, deputy surveyor, while engaged, under the direction of the Surveyor General for New Mexico, in retracing and re-marking between said Cimarron -Meridian
and Macomb Monument the line that had been surveyed
in the year 1874 by John J. Major, astronomer and surveyor, under the direction of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office; and (b) The line extending westwardly from said Macomb Monument to the intersection
of said parallel of latitude with the one-hundred and ninth
meridian of west longitude, as the said line was surveyed
and marked in the year 1868 by Ehud N. Darling, surveyor and astronomer, under the direction of. the Commissioner of the General Land Office; Provided that, pursuant to the consent of the parties hereto, the line surveyed and marked in the year 1917 by Wm. C. Perkins,
surveyor, under the direction of the Commissioner of the
Land Office, as a restoration of the said Darling line between the 203rd mile corner and Astronomical Monument
No. 8 of the Darling survey, shall be taken and deemed
to be the true location of the portion of the Darling line
thus restored.
3. Arthur D. Kidder, cadastral engineer, is designated
as a commissioner to run, locate and mark the boundary
between the two States as determined by this decree. In
running the same the said Preston and Darling lines shall
be retraced and restored in accordance with the marks of
the original surveys upon the ground and the approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Decree.

268 U. S.

field notes thereof on file in the General Land Office,
copies of which are incorporated in the printed record in
this cause, except that as to the portion of the said Darling
line restored by said Perkins, the line marked by said
Perkins shall be followed.
4. The boundary shall be marked by establishing permanent monuments thereon, suitably marked and at appropriate distances. All corners and monuments established by said Darling that were destroyed or obliterated
by Howard B. Carpenter, surveyor, in accordance with
the direction of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, in making a survey of the boundary in the years
1902 and 1903, shall be restored; and all new corners and
monuments that were established by said Carpenter on his
survey, shall be destroyed.
5. The commissioner shall include in his report a description of the monuments established by him and of
the courses and distances between them. He shall file
with his report the field notes of his survey and a map
showing the boundary line as run and marked by him;
also two copies of his report and map.
6. Before entering upon his work the commissioner
shall take and subscribe an oath to perform his duties
faithfully and impartially. He shall prosecute the work
with diligence and dispatch, and shall have authority to
employ such assistants as may be needed therein; and he
shall include in his report a statement of the work done,
the time employed and the expenses incurred.
7. The work of the commissioner shall be subject in
all its parts to the approval of the Court. The copies of
the commissioner's report and map shall be promptly
transmitted by the clerk to the Governors of the two
States; and exceptions or objections to the commissioner's
report, if there be such, shall be presented to the Court,
or, if it be not in session, filed with the clerk, within forty
days after the report is filed.

