276

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

case-that a voluntary transfer of a claim against the
United States, by way of mortgage, finally completed and
made absolute by a judicial sale, falls within the prohibition of § 3477. We need not now determine the effect to
be given to this general statement, nor whether it could
have any application where the mortgage does not specifically transfer existing claims against the United States.
In any event it has no application to the present case.
The findings of fact do not show that these claims were
included in any mortgage executed by the Railway or
were acquired by the claimant through its foreclosure, but
merely that they were acquired through a judicial sale
pursuant to a decree of the court. So far as appears from
the findings this was merely a sale of assets of the Railway not covered by a mortgage, bringing the case in this
aspect within the doctrine of Price v. Forrest,supra, as a
transfer of the claims by operation of law.
We conclude that on the facts found § 3477 does not
preclude the recovery of any of the claims in suit.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
NORTH LARAMIE LAND COMPANY v. HOFFMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

WYOMING.

No. 323. Argued April 14, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.
1. Upon review of a judgment of a state court involving the constitutionality of a state statute, the interpretation of the statute
adopted by the state court is binding on this court. P. 282.
2. The Wyoming Road Law (Comp. Stat. 1910, as amended, § 2524,)
limits the time within which a land owner may file objections

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 277
276

Statement of the Case.

to the establishment of a road and claim for damages to thirty
days after the Board of County Commissioners determines to establish it. Held, reasonable, and consistent with the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 282.
3. The necessity and expediency of taking private property for a
public road are legislative questions, to a decision of which a
hearing of the land owner is not essential under the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 284.
4. The Wyoming Road Law, supra, provides that notice of proposed
establishment of a road by the Board of County Commissioners
shall be published for three successive weeks in three successive
issues of some official paper published in the county; that there
shall be an appraisal, when claims for damages are filed; and that
any applicant for damages may, within thirty days after the final
decision of the board establishing the road and fixing the damages,
appeal to the District Court of the County, which has jurisdiction
to determine the amount of damages in the same manner as in a
court action. Under Comp. Stats. Wyo. §§ 1413, 1424, the meetings of the board are public and all their proceedings must be
promptly published in a newspaper of the county-Held that this
procedure affords due process to the land owner on the matter of
damages, since the hearing in the District Court makes unnecessary
a hearing before the board or the appraisers, and, through the
publication of the board's action, the land owner is duly notified
of the date from which his time for appeal begins to run. P. 285.
30 Wyo. 238, affirmed.

The plaintiff in error, which was plaintiff below, brought
action in the District Court of Platt County, Wyoming,
against the Board of County Commissioners of that
county, asserting the illegality of the establishment of
a certain road running through and appropriating for
that purpose part of plaintiff's land. The petition prayed
that the defendants "be perpetually restrained from taking any further proceedings or doing acts with respect
to locating said proposed road." The defendants appeared and answered and after hearing upon the issues
of law and fact, judgment of the District Court was entered denying relief to the plaintiff. Plaintiff thereupon-removed the cause by petition in error to the Su-

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

268 U. S.

preme Court of the State of Wyoming, which affirmed
the decree of the lower court. 30 Wyoming 238.
The case comes here upon assignments of error calling in question both the constitutionality of the public
road law of the State of Wyoming and the proceedings
had under it resulting in opening the road across the
plaintiff's land, on the ground that such statutes and
procedure amounted to. a denial of due process of law
and a taking of property without due process of law in
contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The particular grounds of attack are
that the notice of the proceedings was not sufficient to
meet the requirements of the constitutional provision;
that there was, under the provisions of the statute. a
denial of an opportunity to Plaintiff in Error to be heard
and that the entire proceedings were void for want of
the sufficient statutory petition for initiating them.
The applicable statutory provisions, so far as material to the present inquiry, may be summarily stated as
follows:
The Statute of the State of Wyoming, known as the
Road Act," Wyoming Compiled Statutes of 1910 as
amended.by Laws of 1913, Chapter 73, prescribes the
following procedure for the location and establishment of
public roads:
(a) A petition for the establishment of a road signed
by ten or more electors of the County residing within
fifteen miles of the proposed road, may be filed in the
office of the County Clerk (Section 2516).
(b) Upon the filing of the petition, the Board of
County Commissioners, or its chairman, is required to
appoint a disinterested elector, who may be a member of
the Board, as a viewer to determine whether the proposed road is required (Section 2518).
(c) The viewer is required to report whether the proposed road is practicable and ought to be established, stat-

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 279
276

Statement of the Case.

ing probable cost and such other matters as shall enable
the Board to act understandingly (Section 2518).
(d) If the Board shall determine to establish the road,
it is required to appoint a day, not less than thirty days
after such determination, on or before which date all objections and claims for damages are required to be filed
with the County Clerk (Section 2524).
(e) By Laws of Wyoming 1913, Chapter 73, (Section
2525) it is provided "that notice of the proposed establishing of the road shall be published for three successive
weeks in three successive issues of some official paper published in the county, if any such there be, and if no newspaper be published therein, such notice shall be posted in
at least three public places along the line of said proposed or altered road" and the Statute provides that
"publication and posting of such notice shall be a legal
and sufficient notice to all persons owning lands or claiming any interest in lands over which the proposed road
is to be located or altered." The Statute does not require that the notice shall state the. time within which
objections and claims may be filed and there is no,direct
.statutory requirement that the Board shall hear objections to the establishment of a road or claims for damages, although it is given power "to continue all such
claims for a further hearing" until the matter can be
disposed of (Section 2527).
(f) When claims for damages are filed, the Board, "at
its next regular or special meeting, or as soon thereafter
as may be practicable or convenient" is required to appoint three suitable and disinterested electors of the
county as appraisers to view the road, on a day to be
fixed by the Board, and to report in writing within
thirty days fixing the amount of damage sustained by the
claimants (Section 2528).
(g) The appraisers are required to view the ground and
fix the amount of damages sustained by each claimant

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

268 U. S.

after allowing for benefits which may accrue by reason of
the location of the road. They may notify claimants of
the time and place of their meeting; and may hear evidence (Section 2530).
(h) At the next meeting of the Board of County Commissioners after the report of the appraisers has been filed,
the Board may hear testimony and consider petitions and
may fix damages, increasing or diminishing them, and
establish the road (Section 2531).
(i) There are no statutory provisions requiring notice
of the meeting of appraisers to be given to claimants or
giving to them a right to be heard, either by the Board
of Appraisers or the Board of County Commissioners to
whom the appraisers are required to report. But from
the final decision of the Board establishing the road
and fixing the amount of damages, any applicant for
damages may appeal to the District Court of the County,
which has jurisdiction to determine the amount of the
damages in the same manner as in a court action. Notice
of appeal is required to be filed with the Clerk of the
Court within thirty days after the decision of the Board
(Section 2336).
A written instrument purporting to be a petition for
location of the road in question was filed with the Board
of County Commissioners and the Chairman of the Board
thereupon appointed himself a viewer pursuant to Sec.
2524 of the Road Law. Acting in that capacity, he reported to the Board recommending the establishment of
the road. Public notice dated May 8, 1917, of the proposed establishing of the road was given by publication,
in accordance with the Statute for four successive weeks,
in a local newspaper, the first publication being dated
May 9th and the last being dated May 30th, 1917. In
the form provided by the Statute and in accordance with
a permissive provision of the Statute (Sec. 2525 as
amended), the notice as published contained the informa-

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 281
276

Statement of the Case.

tion that all objections to the proposed road and all claims
for damages "must be" filed not later than June 7, 1917.
By stipulation entered into by plaintiff with the Board,
the time to file claims for damages was extended until
July 7, 1917. On June 30, 1917, which was after the
date fixed by the published notice for filing objections and
claims, and more than thirty days after the decision of the
Board to locate the road and more than thirty days after
publication of the notice, plaintiffs filed objections to the
establishment of the road as unauthorized under the laws
and Constitution of the State of Wyoming and of the
United States and made claim of damages, without
specifying any amount, for the opening of the road.
In the meantime and on June 8, 1917, the Board appointed appraisers to determine the damages occasioned
by the establishment of the proposed road, directing them
to view the said proposed road for the purpose of determining damages. On the 16th day of June, 1917, they
reported that the benefits to be derived from the road exceeded the damages to land owners. The proceedings had
by the appraisers were ex parte and without notice to the
plaintiff. Thereafter, on August 10, 1917, the Board of
County Commissioners of Platt County took final action
establishing the road in accordance with the petition and
took no action fixing or determining the damages of
any claimant. Plaintiff took no appeal from the determination of the County Commissioners authorizing
the location of the road as provided by Section 2536,
and on November 30, 1917, brought its action for an
injunction.
Mr. George G. King, with whom Messrs. Max Pam,
Harry Boyd Hurd and Roderick N. Matson were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
No brief filed for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SToNE, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

In the Supreme Court of Wyoming, on error to the District Court of Platt County, plaintiff urged various technical objections to the procedure had under the road law
of Wyoming for the establishment of the proposed road,
particularly that the petition for the establishment of the
road was insufficient within the provisions of the Statute
and also duly presented to the Court for its consideration
the constitutional objections which are urged here.
The Supreme Court of Wyoming he!d that the procedure followed complied with the statutory requirements.
By that determination we are bound. American Land Co.
v. Zeiss, 219 U. S. 47; Quong Ham lVah Co. v. Industrial
Accident Commission, 255 U. S. 445. That court also
held that under the terms of the Statute, Section 2524,
the time for filing objections to the establishment of the
road and claims for damages could not be extended by
the Board of County Commissioners and that the plaintiff
having failed to file its objection and claim within the
statutory period, was thereby foreclosed from further proceedings under it. By this interpretation of the meaning
and effect of the Statute of Wyoming we are likewise
bound, but we are nevertheless free to inquire whether the
Statute as interpreted and applied by the State Court
denies rights guaranteed by the Constitution and to consider the contention of plaintiff in error that the Statute
itself is unconstitutional because of the insufficiency of
the required notice of the proceedings had under it, and
because by it plaintiff was denied a hearing within the
meaning of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Under the requirements of that Amendment, property
may not be taken for public use without reasonable
notice of the proceedings authorized for its taking and

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 283
276

Opinion of the Court.

without reasonable opportunity to be heard as to substantial matters of right affected by the taking. But a
state statute does not contravene the provisions of that
Amendment unless, in some substantial way, it infringes
the fundamental rights of citizens and, in passing on the
constitutionality of a state law, its effect must be judged
in the light of its practical application to the affairs of
men as they are ordinarily conducted.
All persons are charged with knowledge of the provisions of statutes and must take note of the procedure
adopted by them; and when that procedure is not unreasonable or arbitrary there are no constitutional limitations relieving them from conforming to it. This is
especially the case with respect to those statutes relating to the taxation or condemnation of land. Such
statutes are universally in force and are general in their
application, facts of which the land owner must take account in providing for the management of .his property
and safeguarding his interest in it. Owners of real estate
may so order their affairs that they may be informed of
tax or condemnation proceedings of which there is published notice, and the law may be framed in recognition
of that fact. In consequence, it has been uniformly held
that statutes providing for taxation or condemnation of
land may adopt a procedure summary in character, and
that notice of such proceedings may be indirect, provided
only that the period of notice of the initiation of proceedings and the method of giving it are reasonably adapted
to the nature of the proceedings and their subject matter
and afford to the property owner reasonable opportunity
at some stage of the proceedings to protect his property
from an arbitrary or unjust appropriation. Huling v.
Kaw Valley Railway & Improvement Co., 130 U. S. 559;
Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, at p. 262.
The limitation of time provided by the Wyoming
Statute for filing notice of objection and claim for

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

damages to thirty days after the determination of the
Board of County Commissioners to establish a public
road does not, on its face, appear to be unreasonable and
no foundation is laid either in the record or briefs of
counsel for the contention that it is, in its practical operation, unreasonable for that purpose, or that by it there
was a denial of due process of law. A like or less period
of notice by publication has been repeatedly held by this
Court to satisfy the constitutional requirements for the
initiation of proceedings to enforce assessment or tax
liens. Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159
U. S. 526; Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 680;
Ballard v. Hunter,supra.
So also with respect to judicial proceedings affecting
title to land, Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316; Hamilton v.
Brown, 161 U. S. 256, and with respect to the condemnation or appropriation of land for public use, Huling v.
Kaw Valley Railway & Improvement Co., supra; Bragg
v. Weaver, 251 U. S. 57.
There remains for consideration the plaintiff's objection
that the statutory method of giving notice of the proposed
location of the road under Section 2525 of the Statute was
insufficient and that plaintiff was afforded no opportunity
for a hearing before either the appraisers or the Board of
County Commissioners with respect either to the location
of the road or the damage suffered by plaintiff by the
opening of the road. The taking of property provided
for by the Statute is a taking of land under the direction
of public officers for a public use. As was held in Bragg
v. Weaver, supra,the necessity and expediency of the taking of property for public use "are legislative questions,
no matter who may be charged with their decision, and a
hearing thereon is not essential to due process in the
sense of the Fourteenth Amendment." Joslin Co. v.
Providence, 262 U. S. 668, 678; Georgia v. Chattanooga,
264 U. S. 472, 483. With respect to the compensation

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 285
276

Opinion of the Court.

for the taking, however, due process requires that the
owner be given opportunity to be heard, upon reasonable
notice of the pending proceedings. See Bragg v. Weaver,
supra.
There being a newspaper published within Platt
County, notice of the initiation of the proceedings for
the establishment of the road by publication for three successive weeks in three successive issues of some official
paper published in the County, is made mandatory by
Section 2525 of the Public Road Law of Wyoming, as
amended by Chapter 73 of the Laws of Wyoming of
1913, and the requirements of this Statute were fully complied with. These requirements in all material respects
are .identical with those passed upon by this Court in
Huling v. Kaw Valley Railway & Improvement Co.,
supra, in which it was held that a statute of Kansas providing that the condemnation of land for use for railroad
purposes might be effected on thirty days' notice by publication in a newspaper, satisfied all the requirements of
due process of law.
And see also Bragg v. Weaver, supra, holding that in
proceedings for the condemnation of property for public
use, notice by publication is constitutionally sufficient.
See also Castillo v. McConnico; Ballard v. Hunter; Arndt
v. Griggs and Hamilton v. Brown, supra, upholding a like
procedure for the foreclosure of assessment or tax liens.
But the plaintiff in error objects to the procedure established by the Statute because, under it, plaintiff was
afforded no opportunity for a hearing either before the
Appraisers or the Board of County Commissioners, and
in consequence, assuming the sufficiency of the notice,
there was a denial of due process of law in determining
the amount of damage or compensation to be awarded
for the taking of plaintiff's property. When there is a
constitutional right to a hearing, as was held in Bragg
v. Weaver, supra, one constitutional method of fixing

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 UI. S.

damages "among several admissible modes is that of causing the amount to be assessed by viewers subject to an
appeal to a court carrying with it a right to have the
matter determined upon a full trial." This is the rule
adopted in numerous other cases. See Huling v. Kaw
Valley Railway & Improvement Co., supra; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316, and Winona & St. Peter Land Co.
v. Alfinnesota, supra. It is the mode of procedure adopted
by the Wyoming Statute. Section 2536 provides for an
appeal to the District Court of the County within thirty
days after the decision of the Board of County Commissioners establishing the road.
Plaintiff in error does not deny the soundness of the
rule, but questions its applicability to the present case
on the ground that the procedure established by the
Statute affords no means of ascertaining at what time
the final decision of the Board of County Commissioners establishing the road is made, and consequently when
the time to appeal to the District Court, as provided by
Section 2536, begins to run. It is urged that notwithstanding the fact that the Board of County Commissioners may lawfully meet and reach a final decision, and
notwithstanding the fact that the Board in the present
case kept minutes and recorded its action in making final
decision to establish the road in question, nevertheless
the law provides for no public record. from which the decision of the Board may be ascertained and claimants
are denied any legal means of ascertaining whether in
fact such action has been taken.
In making this contention, plaintiff in error overlooks
the plain effect of Sections 1413 and 1424 of the Compiled Statutes of Wyoming of 1920 which were in force
at the time of the proceedings in question. By Section
1413 it is provided that all meetings of the Board of
County Commissioners are public meetings, and Section
1424 requires that all proceedings of the Board of County

NORTH LARAMIE LAND CO. v. HOFFMAN. 287
276

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioners shall be published in a newspaper of the
County and the County Clerk is required to furnish such
paper with a copy of the proceedings of each meeting
for that. purpose, within forty-eight hours after adjournment. No contention was made in the courts below or
here that the requirements of these sections of the law
were not complied with, and there is no basis for such
contention in the assignments of error.
Having in mind the character of the procedure in condemnation proceedings and the numerous decisions of this
Court, to which reference has been made, establishing
what is a due procedure in this class of cases, we have
no hesitancy in holding that. the method provided by
Section 1424 of giving notice of the final decision of the
Board of County Commissioners establishing the road is
reasonably adapted to the other procedure laid down in
the Statute, that it affords reasonable opportunity to
claimants to ascertain the fact and that it satisfies all
constitutional requirements. A land owner who had
notice of the initiation of the proceedings for the opening of the road published in accordance with the Statute,
which notice as we have seen under the decisions of this
Court is constitutionally sufficient, would have experienced no practical difficulty in ascertaining when the
Board of County Commissioners took final action, and
by filing notice of appeal to the District Court within
thirty days thereafter, he could have secured the full
hearing to which he is constitutionally entitled. Having failed to adopt such procedure, the plaintiff cannot
complain of a denial of due process of law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wyoming is
Affirmed.

