588

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

CEMENT MANUFACTURERS PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 551.

Argued March 3, 5, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.

1. Dissemination of information enabling sellers of goods under contracts for future delivery individually to prevent purchasers from
fraudulently procuring deliveries on the pret 6 nse that the sellers
are obligated by their contracts to make them, is not an unlawful
restraint of trade, even though the information be gathered by and
disseminated among the sellers themselves through co5peration.
P. 603.
2. Cobperation of manufacturers in gathering and exchanging (1)
information concerning production of cement and the prices for
which it was sold by them in actual, closed "specific job" contracts
constituting but a part of their business, and (2) information of
transportation costs from chief points of production, held not an
unlawful restraint on commerce, even assuming that the result
may tend to bring about uniformity of price, through the operation
of economic law. P. 604.
3. In this case the Government did not rely upon any agreement or
understanding for price maintenance; and the record fails to establish, either directly of by inference, any concerted action other than
that involved in the gathering and dissemination of information,
respecting sale and distribution, which in itself the Court finds not
unlawful; nor does the evidence show any effect on price and production except such as would naturally flow from the dissemination
of such information in the trade and its natural influence on individual action. P. 606.
4. In a suit under the Anti-Trust Act to dissolve a trade association
formed by nulnerous manufacturers of Portland cement, it appeared: (1) That, following trade practice, each manufacturer
disposed of part of its product through "specific job contracts ",
i. e., contracts in effect obligating the manufacturer to deliver in
the future to the purchaser at a maximum price named, payable
on delivery, the cement required to complete a specified piece of
construction work, but allowing the purchaser the advantage of
any decline, before delivery, in market price, and not obligating him
in any event to take the cement contracted for; (2) that to pre-

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

Statement of the Case.

vent contractors from obtaining more cement than they were entitled to under such contracts by the practice of entering into several such contracts with several manufacturers for the same specific job, the details of such contracts were reported by the memhers to the association, agents of the latter visited the jobs, and the
fullest information respecting the contracts and the use of cement
shipped under them was reported to the members by the secretary;
and there were many cancellations of deliveries under such contract s on the ground that purchasers were not entitled to delivery
by the terms of their agreements; (3) that the association compiled
and distributed to its members books listing freight rates from established basing points to many cities and towns, enabling the
manufacturer to calculate a delivery price on the basis of its own
mill price (determined by itself) to places nearest in point of
freight rate to its own mill, and also to determine at once the
freight differential it must offset in its mill price in order to compete with other manufacturers serving any other given territory;
(4) that inembers of the association rendered monthly detailed
reports concerning delinquent accounts of their customers; (5)
and reports of production, shipments and stock on hand, which,
being compiled and distributed, informed each member fully of the
available supply of cement and by whom it was held; (6) that, by
universal practice of the trade, the price of bags in which cement
was shipped was included in the mill base price; and that quarterly
reports were made to the association showing the total number of
bags returned to each member by customers during the preceding
quarter and the percentage found unfit for use; but no information
was reported concerning the charge and allowance for bags returned, the number received from any particular customer, or the
portion found unfit for use; (7) that periodical meetings were held
at which minor subjects, such as return of bags, bag reports, and
trade acceptances, were discussed, but not current or future prices,
or production or market conditions; which meetings were not
proved to have resulted in any agreement or in any uniformity
of trade practice. Held that a purpose to control production and
price of cement could not be inferred from such activities, and
they were not in themselves unlawful restraints of commerce prohibited by the Anti-Trust Act. P. 592.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court in a suit
brought by the Government under the Anti-Trust Act,

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

enjoining the continuance of a combination of various
cement manufacturers, in the form of a trade association.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. George T.
Buckingham and Archibald Cox were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. J. A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom the Solicitor General and Mr. Roger
Shale, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from a final decree of the District
Court for the Southern District of New York granting
a perpetual injunction in a proceeding brought by the
United States under ยง 4, Chapter 647, of the Act of July
2, 1920, 26 Stat. 209, commonly known as the Sherman
Act. Defendants are the Cement Manufacturers Protec.tive Association, an unincorporated association, four indi.vidials, the officers of the Association, and nineteen cor.porations, members of the Association, engaged in manufacturing and shipping Portland cement in interstate commerce, in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Maryland
and Virginia. The petition, whith was filed on the 30th
day of June, 1921, alleges restraint of interstate commerce
in violation of ยง 1 of the Act. The complaint prays that
the Cement Manufacturers Protective Association be adjudged a violation of ยง 1 and enjoined accordingly. After
final hearing, the District Court entered its decree enjoining the continuance of the Cement Manufacturers Protective Association and enjoined it and the several defendants
from engaging in the activities of which the Government
complains and of which a summary account will presently
be given.
The Association was organized in January, 1916. Its
purposes, as described by the constitution, were the "col-

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. IU. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

lection and dissemination of such accurate information
as may serve to protect each manufacturer against misrepresentation, deception and imposition, and enable him
to conduct his business exactly as he pleases in every
respect, and particularly free from misdirection by false
or insufficient information concerning the following matters, to wit:
(a) Information concerning credits;
(b) Information concerning contracts whidh have been
made for the delivery of cement sufficiently complete to
enable the manufacturer to protect himself against
spurious contracts and like transactions induced by misrepresentations;
(c) Information concerning freight rates on cement;
(d) Statistical information as to production; stocks of
cement and clinker on hand, and shipments."
The constitution also provides that "membership in
the Association shall be recognized as implying that the
member is absolutely free to conduct his business exactly
as he pleases in every respect and particular."
Cement is a thoroughly standardized product. It is
manufactured from limestone and shale which are crushed
to extreme fineness, then subjected to high temperatures,
which process produces a fused mass which when cooled
is known as clinker. The clinker is then ground into the
finished product which is then ready for transportation
and use. Clinker is not subject to deterioration, but the
ground clinker or cement deteriorates rapidly on exposure
to moisture and cannot be kept in storage except for a
limited period of time. The defendant corporations are
manufacturers of this product, which is shipped in interstate commerce principally within the areas of the several
States in which the several defendants are located, and
they are competitors in the business of shipping the product in interstate commerce. From 60% to 65% of the
total product of the several corporate defendants is sold

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

to the general trade for immediate use. Of this 60% to
65% approximately two-thirds is sold to dealers who are
allowed a differential from the sales price to the retail
trade.
The activities of defendants on which the Government
bases its case for an injunction may summarily be stated
as follows: The Government charges that the defendants,
through the activities of the Association, control prices
and production of cement within the territorial area
served by the several defendants in the following manner:
(1) By the use of "specific job contracts" for future
delivery of cement, accompanied by a system of reports
and trade espionage having as its objective the restriction
of deliveries of cement under those contracts.
(2) By compiling and distributing, among the members, freight-rate books which give the rate of freight from
arbitrary basing points to numerous points of delivery
within the territorial area served by the several
defendants;
(3) By exchange of information concerning credits;
(4) By activities of the Association at its meetings.
The Government asserts that uniformity of prices and
limitation of production are necessary results of these
activities of the defendants. It does not, however, charge
any agreement or understanding between the defendants
placing limitations on either prices or production. The
evidence does not establish that prices were excessive or
unreasonable, and the District Court found " as compared
with the rise of prices of other basic commodities, it is
possible to say that the quotations of cement advanced
less than others." The court also found that competition
had not been destroyed by the Association and that upon
many occasions the defendants were active in endeavoring
to take business from companies associated with them.
The court, however, held that the activities of the defendants in connection with. specific job contracts tended to

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

593

Opinion of the Court.

limit the amount of cement distributed to the trade under
those contracts; that the exchange of information complained of generally tended to limit production; that the
dissemination of this information, especially that contained in the freight-rate book, tended to produce uniformity in price, and that there was accordingly a restraint of commerce within the principles laid down in
American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 393; United States v. American Linseed Oil Company, 262 U. S. 371.
It is conceded, and the court below found, that before
the organization of the present association there was substantial uniformity of trade practices in the cement trade,
so far as is pertinent to the present discussion, in the
following respects:
(1) The sale of cement by specific job contracts for
future delivery;
(2) The selling of cement, f. o. b. delivery;
(3) Using freight basing points in the quotation of
prices;
(4) Including in all quotations for sale of cement, a
freight rate from a basing point to the place of delivery;
(5) Charging purchasers of cement for bags in which
the product is shipped and allowing credit for bags returned to the manufacturers in good condition.
Since there is no exchange of information among the
defendants with respect to contracts for the sale of cement
for immediate delivery, which constitutes more than 60%
of the business, the Government's contention before this
Court centered upon the use of the specific job contract
by defendants and their activities in connection with such
contracts, since without the use of the specific job contract
the other activities complained of could have no substantial bearing on restraint of competition with respect either
to prices or production. It will therefore be necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

consider more at length the activities of the defendants in
connection with specific job contracts and incidentally
their other activities as related to sales of cement under
specific job contracts and the information exchanged with
respect to such contracts.
Specific job contracts.
The specific job contract and the practices of the trade
with respect to making deliveries in performance of those
contracts were customary in the trade long before any of
the collective activities complained of in this case. We
do not understand the Government to contend that the
use of specific job contracts by defendants, or that their
use generally by the trade, is the result of any agreement
or understanding, or in itself constitutes any violation of
the Sherman Law. It is contended that the violation
arises rather from the co-operation among the several defendants in acquiring and distributing information with
reference to specific job contracts and the effect of the dissemination of that information on the trade, to which
reference will now be made.
The specific job contract is a form of contract in common use by manufacturers of cement whereby cement is
sold for future delivery for use in a specific piece of construction which is described in the contract. As was stated
in the opinion of the court below, they are contracts
"whereby a manufacturer is to deliver in the future,
cement to be used in a specific piece of work, such as a
particular building or road, and the obligation is that the
manufacturer shall furnish and the contractor shall take
only such cement as is required for or used for the specific
purpose." These contracts have, by universal practice,
been treated by cement manufacturers as, in effect, free
options customarily made and acted upon on the understanding that the purchaser is to pay nothing until after

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S
588

Opinion of the Court.

the delivery of the cement to hhn; that he is not obligated
in any event to take the cement contracted for unless he
chooses to; that he is not held to the price named in the
contract in the event of a decline in the -market price;
whereas the manufacturer may be held to the contract
price if the market advances and may be held for the delivery of the full amount of cement required for the completion of the particular piece of construction described in
the contract. The practical effect and operation of the
specific job contract therefore is to enable contractors who
are bidding upon construction work to secure a call or
option for the cement required for the completion of that
particular job at a price which may not be increased, but
may be reduced if the market declines. It enables contractors to bid for future construction work with the assurance that the requisite cement will be available at a
definitely ascertained maximum price.
In view of the option features of the contract referred
to, the contractor is involved in no business risk if he
enter into several specific job contracts with several manufacturers for the delivery of cement for a single specific
job. The manufacturer, however, is under no moral or
legal obligation to supply cement except such as is required for the specific job. If, therefore, the contractor
takes advantage of his position and of the peculiar form
of the specific job contract, as modified by the custom of
the trade, to secure deliveries from each of several manufacturers of the full amount of cement required for the
particular job, he in effect secures the future delivery of
cement not required for the particular job, which he is
not entitled to receive, which the manufacturer is under
no legal or moral obligation to deliver and which presumably he would not deliver if he had information that it
was not to be used in accordance with his contract. The
activities of the defendants complained of are directed
toward securing this information and communicating it

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

to members and thus placing them in a position to prevent contractors from securing future deliveries of cement
which they are not entitled to receive under their specific
job contracts, and which experience shows they endeavor
to procure especially in a rising market.
Members are required to make to the secretary of the
Association prompt reports of all specific job contracts,
describing in detail the contract and giving the name and
address of the purchaser; the amount of cement required,
the price and delivery point; also the date of expiration
of the contract. They are also required to make detailed
reports of all changes in the contract, including increases
in the amount of cement to be delivered and cancellations.
The Association also employs "checkers" whose business
it is, by actual inspection and inquiry, to ascertain, so far
as possible, the amount 'of cement required for specific
jobs referred to in specific job contracts, and whether
cement shipped under specific job contracts is actually
used or required for use under such contracts. Without
entering into any detailed discussion of this phase of the
activity of defendants, we accept fully the Government's
contention that the defendants regularly take all practicable steps to ascertain whether cement contracted for
under the specific job type of contract was actually being
used for the job described in the contract, and that the
fullest information with respect to such contracts and the
use of cement shipped under said contracts is reported
to the members of the Association through the mediation
of the secretary.
The Government does not contend that the activities
of the Association with respect to specific job contracts
diminished the number of such contracts, or that they
diminished in any way the obligations of members of the
Association upon such contracts. There is, however,
abundant evidence to show that there were actual cancellations of deliveries on the ground that contractors were

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

597

Opinion of the Court.

not entitled, under the terms of their contracts, to receive
such deliveries. In 1920, of 1,392 contracts investigated
and found to be "padded" to the extent of more than
3,500,000 barrels of cement, 978 were partially cancelled
to the extent of 2,014,653 barrels.
The Association freight-rate book.
The custom in the cement trade of selling cement at a
delivered price which includes the mill price, the price of
bags and freight charges, was an established trade practice
before the organization of the defendant association. As
required by the by-laws of the defendant association, it
has distributed to its members freight-rate books, listing
freight rates from established basing points to practically
every city and town in the northeast section of the United
States. The freight rates contained in the freight-rate
book are compiled from the official tariffs and translated
from the rate per ton of the official tariffs into the rate
per barrel of 380 pounds, the unit for the sale of cement.
Similar lists of freight rates embracing substantially the
same subject matter were prepared and used by individual
manufacturers before the organization of the defendant
association. The association freight-rate book took the
place of previous separate publications by individual
manufacturers, with a consequent saving of money and
increase of accuracy and a more thorough and continuous
checking of rates. The basing points from which freight
rates were calculated were not selected by the Association,
but were the same as those appearing in prior books published by individuals before the publication of the Association freight-rate book. The basing points are points
of actual shipment from which the larger proportion of
the cement in a given locality in which cement is manufactured is actually shipped. The rates published are
the actual rates omitting fractions of cents between the
basing points and actual points of delivery.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Manufacturers customarily, and for the purpose of the
convenient conduct of their business, maintain a uniform
base or factory price, so far as the customers of the individual manufacturer are concerned. That is to say, the
business is conducted on a "one-price" basis. In order,
however, to determine the delivered price, there must be
added to the factory price of a given manufacturer, the
cost of transportation to the point of delivery. Prompt
quotation of a delivered price therefore involves the
ability to carry out promptly the mechanical process of
adding to the mill price, the cost of transportation to the
point of delivery. Lists of freight rates, in convenient
and readily available form, are therefore necessary adjuncts to the quotation of delivery prices for cement.
The use of basing points for the purpose of computing
freight rates appears not to have been the result of any
collective activity on the part of defendants or cement
manufacturers generally, nor were they arbitrarily selected. Their use is rather the natural result of the development of the business within certain defined geographical areas. When a manufacturer establishes his
factory at a given point of production and sells his product
in a territory which is contiguous freightwise to his factory, other mills established in the vicinity and serving
the same territory, in order to compete in that territory,
must either secure a like freight rate or they must sell at a
mill price which will permit them to deliver cement at a
price which will enable them to compete with the mill or
mills located at the basing point which is the principal
point of production in the territory which is contiguous in
point of freight rate to the basing point. If such competing mills secure the same freight rate through the adoption
of a blanket freight rate by the Interstate Commerce Commission, as was done in the Lehigh Valley, the rate from
the basing point would in every case be identical with the
freight rate for the competing mills. If there were no

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

blanket freight rate the competing mills must still use the
rate from a given basing point in order to compete with
the mills located in the vicinity of that chief point of
production. In either case the freight rate from the basing point is an essential element in making a delivered
price, since selling by any particular manufacturer at the
lowest of the delivered prices computed from several basing points is a necessary procedure in competing in the
sale of cement. The freight-rate book, therefore, not only
enables the manufacturer to calculate a delivered price on
the basis of his own mill price, which he determines, to
points in the territory nearest in point of freight rate to his
own mill, but it enables him also to determine at once the
freight differential which he must offset in his mill price in
order to compete with other manufacturers serving any
other given territory.
Exchange of information concerning credits.
Members of the Association render monthly reports of
all accounts of customers two months or more over due,
giving the name and address of the delinquent debtor, the
amount of the overdue account in ledger balance, accounts
in hands of attorneys for collection, and any explanation,
as for example when the account was treated by the
debtors as offset of a balance due for bags, or was otherwise disputed. There are also reports showing the general total of delinquent accounts in comparison with those
for the last twelve months, and reports of payments of
accounts placed in the hands of attorneys. There was a
form, seldom used, for answering inquiries as to whether
a particular name had appeared in the monthly report,
and if so, where. There were never any comments concerning names appearing on the list of delinquent debtors.
The Government neither charged nor proved that there
was any agreement with respect to the use of this informa-

00TOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tion, or with respect to the persons to whom or conditions
under which credit should be extended. The evidence
falls far short of establishing any understanding on the
basis of which credit was to be extended to customers or
that any co-operation resulted from the distribution of
this information, or that there were any consequences from
it other than such as would naturally ensue from the
exercise of the individual judgment of manufacturers in
determining, on the basis of available information,
whether to extend credit or to require cash or security
from any given customer.
Statistical information.
The statistical activities of the Association, other than
those relating to specific job contracts which have already
been referred to, dealt with information as to existing
supplies of cement 'and the so-called bag report, which
gave information concerning returned bags which are the
usual containers in which cement is shipped and delivered.
Each member of the Association, in addition to the reports on specific job contracts already referred to, sends to
the Association a monthly statement of its production of
clinker and ground cement, shipments and stock on hand
for the past.month and for the corresponding periods of
the previous year. These were compiled and distributed
to members without any change or comment. In addition, semi-monthly statements of shipments were also received and likewise distributed. Each member of the Association was thus given full information as to the available supply of cement and by whom it was held.
Byuniversal practice, the price of bags in which cement
is shipped is included and becomes a part of the mill base
price. This is usually at the rate of ten cents per bag.
The bag reports were made quarterly and contained two
items; the total number of bags returned by each member

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

during the preceding quarter and the percentage thereof
found unfit for use. The reports show that'the loss varied
from about 3/1 of 1% by one manufacturer to about
41/% by another, and the diversity continued throughout
the period covered by the reports. In 1918 a questionnaire
was sent out enquiring as to the practice of each company, to determine whether better results were obtained
by cleaning before or after counting, showing that some
counted before cleaning and some after cleaning, and
some both before and after. No information was reported
concerning the charge and allowance or deposit for bags
returned, or concerning the number received from any
particular customer, or the portion found unfit for use.
Meetings.
The constitution and by-laws of the Association provided for monthly meetings. A full and accurate
stenographic report of all discussions at meetings was
kept and made available to the Government and, as is
stated in the Government's brief, "the Association's
counsel was present at every meeting to steer the discussions away from illegal subjects and to have them confine
the matters strictly within the purview of the by-laws
and the constitution of the Association." During the only
period of rising markets since the relinquishment of war
control, the spring and summer of 1920, no meetings were
held during July and August. The later minutes contained Complaints at smallness of attendance, and the
number of companies represented at meetings varied from
eleven to seventeen, with an average attendance of about
two-thirds of the total membership of nineteen corporations. There was no. discussion at these meetings of current prices; no comment on conditions or as to prospect of
market, production or prices. Excerpts from the minutes
are set out by the Government's brief at great length in-

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

dicating that from time to time individual representatives
of the companies expressed themselves on subjects of
minor importance; such as return of bags and bag reports,
discounts, the use of trade acceptances where customers
desired more than the customary thirty days' discount.
But with reference to these suggestions and discussions,
either no action was taken, or action was taken adverse to
the suggestions made. There is no evidence that any
agreement was reached affecting any of the matters discussed; nor does the Government point specifically to any
uniformity of trade practice or custom followed, which is
urged as even inferentially the result of activities at
meetings.
Legal consequence of defendants' activities.
From these various activities of the defendants, the
Government deduces a purpose to control the price of
cement, which it is charged was to be accomplished by the
control of the supply of cement on the market and by intimate association of the defendants in the exchange of
information and a ready means of quoting a delivered
price at any point. Cement was to be kept from the
market by the use of the specific job contract accompanied
by the systematic gathering and reporting of information
with reference to the specific jobs and the amount of
cement required for their completion. The two essential
elements in the conspiracy to restrain commerce charged
therefore are (a) the gathering and reporting of information which would enable individual members of the Association to avoid making deliveries of cement on specific
job contracts which by the terms of the contracts they
are not bound to deliver, and (b) the gathering of information as to production, price of cement sold on
specific job contracts and transportation costs, not differing essentially from similar information disseminated by
the Maple Flooring Association which is the subject of

CEMENT MIRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

the opinion in Maple Flooring Association v. United
States, decided today, ante p. 563.
That a combination existed for the purpose of gathering
and distributing these two classes of information is not
denied. That a consequence of the gathering and dissemination of information with respect to the specific job
contracts was to afford to manufacturers of cement, opportunity and grounds for refusing deliveries of c~ment
which the contractors were not entitled to call for,-an
opportunity of which manufacturers were prompt to avail
themselves-is also not open to dispute. We do not see,
however, in the activity of the defendants with respect to
specific job contracts any basis for the contention that
they constitute an unlawful restraint of commerce. The
Government does not rely on any agreement or understanding among members of the Association that members would either make use of the specific job contract, or
that they would refuse to deliver "excess" cement under
specific job contracts. Members were left free to use this
type of contract and to make such deliveries or not as they
chose, and the evidence already referred to shows that in
1920 padded specific job contracts were cut down something less than two-thirds of the total amount of the
padding, as a result of the system of gathering and reporting this information. It may be assumed, however, if
manufacturers take the precaution to draw their sales
contracts in such form that they are not to be required
to deliver cement not needed for the specific jobs described
in these contracts, that they would, to a considerable extent, decline to make deliveries, upon receiving information showing that the deliveries claimed were not called
for by the contracts. Unless the provisions in the contract are waived by the manufacturer, demand for and
receipt of such deliveries by the contractor would be a
fraud on the manufacturer; and, in our view, the gathering and dissemination of information which will enable

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

sellers to prevent the perpetration of fraud upon them,
which information they are free to act upon or not as they
choose, cannot be held to be an unlawful restraint upon
commerce, even though in the ordinary course of business
most sellers would act on the information and refuse to
make deliveries for which they were not legally bound.
In Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 395,
this Court approved a decree which provided that defendants should not be restrained "from establishing and
maintaining rules for the giving of credit to dealers where
such rules in good faith are calculated solely to protect
the defendants against dishonest or irresponsible dealers."
Distribution of information as to credit and responsibility
of buyers undoubtedly prevents fraud and cuts down to
some degree commercial transactions which would otherwise be induced by fraud. But for reasons stated more
at length in our opinion in Maple Flooring Association v.
United States, supra, we cannot regard the procuring
and dissemination of information which tends to prevent
the procuring of fraudulent contracts or to prevent the
fraudulent securing of deliveries of merchandise on the
pretense that the seller is bound to deliver it by his contract, as an unlawful restraint of trade even though such
information be gathered and disseminated by those who
are engaged in the trade or business principally concerned.
Nor, for the reasons stated, can we regard the gathering
and reporting of information, through the co-operation of
the defendants in this case, with reference to production,
price of cement in actual closed specific job contracts and
of transportation costs from chief points of production
in the cement trade, as an unlawful restraint of commerce; even though it be assumed that the result of the
gathering and reporting of such information tends to bring
about uniformity in price.
Agreements or understanding among competitors for
the maintenance of uniform prices are of course unlawful

CEMENT MFRS. ASSN. v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

and may be enjoined, but the Government does not rely
on any agreement or understanding for price maintenance.
It relies rather upon the necessary leveling effect upon
prices of knowledge disseminated among sellers as to some
of the important factors which enter into price. It is
conceded that there is a substantial uniformity of price of
cement. Variations of price by one manufacturer are
usually promptly followed by like variation throughout
the trade. As already indicated, the larger proportion of
the product of the defendants is distributed through dealers, and prices to dealers are not reported to or through
the Association. It is contended by the Government that
the report of prices on specific job contracts in effect informs the members of the Association of prices to dealers,
since the differential allowed to dealers is well known in
the trade. However this may be, the fact is that any
change in quotation of price to dealers, promptly becomes
well-known in the trade through reports of salesmen,
agents and dealers of various manufacturers. It appears
to be undisputed that there were frequent changes in
price, and uniformity has resulted not from maintaining
the price at fixed levels, but from the prompt meeting of
changes in prices by competing sellers.
It is urged by the defendants that such uniformity of
price as existed in the trade was due to competition. They
offered much evidence tending to show complete independence of judgment and of action of defendants, by
large expenditures in competitive sales efforts and by
variations in the volume of their production and shipment, earnings and pro-fits. A great volume of testimony
was also given by distinguished economists in support of
the thesis that, in the case of a standardized product sold
wholesale to fully informed professional buyers, as were
the dealers in cement, uniformity of price will inevitably
result from active, free and unrestrained competition; and
the Government in its brief concedes that "undoubtedly

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

the price of cement would approach uniformity in a normal market in the absence of all combinations between the
manufacturers."
We realize also that uniformity of price may be the result of agreement or understanding, and that an artificial
price level not related to the supply and demand of a
given commodity may be evidence from which such agreement or understanding, or some concerted action of sellers
operating to restrain commerce, may be inferred. But
here the Government does not rely upon agreement or
understanding, and this record wholly fails to, establish,
either directly or by inference, any concerted action other
than that involved in the gathering and dissemination of
pertinent information with respect to the sale and distribution of cement to which we have referred; and it fails
to show any effect on price and production except such as
would naturally flow from the dissemination of that information in the trade and its natural influence on individual action.
For reasons stated in Maple Flooring Association v.
United States, supra,such activities are not in themselves
unlawful restraints upon commerce and are not prohibited
by the Sherman Act.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD, and MR.
in a separate opinion, dissented
from the opinions of the majority in this case and the
case next preceding. See ante, pp. 586, 587.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

