OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

268 U. S.

It is significant that, while these progressively liberal
publicity amendments were being made, § 3167-to the
general rule of which they were in terms opposed-was
carried along by reenactment without change, plainly indicating that, in the opinion of Congress, by the application
of the qualifying clause "not provided by law," the scope
of the general rule against publication would become automatically narrowed to the extent of the liberalizing exceptions. The congressional proceedings and debates and the
reports of the conferees on the disagreeing votes of the
two Houses, which we have examined but think it unnecessary to review, strongly confirm our conclusion that Congress, understanding that this limitation would apply,
intended to open the information contained in the lists to
full publicity.
As a result, we hold that, to the extent provided by
§ 257(b), Congress meant to abandon the policy of secrecy
altogether and to exclude from the operation of § 3167 all
forms of publicity, including that here in question.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE POST.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 847. Argued April 16, 17, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.
Decided upon the authority of United States v. Dickey, ante, p. 378.
2 Fed. (2d) 761, affirmed.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Newton D. Baker, for defendant in error.
The matter published by the defendant was no part
of the income return, but merely a copy of the list

UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE POST. 389
388

Opinion of the Court.

prepared and made available to public inspection by the
commissioner.
It is the duty of the Commissioner, under the provisions
of § 257 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1924, to prepare and
make available for public inspection in each collection district, lists containing the name of each person making an
income tax return and the amount of tax paid by him;
and therefore the publication made by the defendant was
not a printing or publishing of a part of an income return
in a manner not provided by law in violation of Rev. Stats.
§ 3167.
If § 3167, interpreted in connection with § 257, forbids
the printing in a newspaper of the name of the taxpayer
and the amount of tax paid, contained in the lists open to
public inspection, then to that extent § 3167 is unconstitutional, since it abridges the freedom of the press protected by the first amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND deli-ered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here from a judgment of the lower
court dismissing the indictment, 2 Fed. (2d) 761, and is
the same in all respects .as No. 768, United States v.
Dickey et al., just decided, ante, p. 378. Upon that authority the judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR.oJUsTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

