OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

220

268 IT. S.

Argument for the United States.

The decrees of the court below must be reversed and
the causes remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissents.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 111.

Argued April 30, 1925.-Decided, May 11, 1925.

1. Under the provision of the "Revenue Act of 1918," taxing admission fees, (Feb. 24, 1919, c. 18, § 800, 802, 40. Stat. 1057,
1120,) a person who has collected such fees at a public exhibition
and is required to pay the tax to the United States is a debtor
and not a bailee; so that failure to pay the tax is not indictable
as an embezzlement of money of the Uilited States, within § 47
Criminal Code. P. 226.
2. A person who collects admission fees to boxing matches is liable
to punishment under § 1308b of the above Revenue Act for failure to pay the taxes to the United States, if he really -acts on
his own behalf in giving the exhibitions, collecting the fees and
undertaking to pay taxes, even though, to comply with a state
law, the exhibitions are given nominally by a corporate licensee
cf which he is technically but the agent. P 227.
290 Fed. 120, reversed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a sentence of the District Court. in
a criminal prosecution for failure to pay over admission
fees taxes, and for embezzlement.
CERTIORARI

Mr. William J. Donovan, Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States.

This Court has jurisdiction to grant certiorari at the
suit of the Government in a criminal case.

It

is not

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
220

Argument for the United States.

necessary to argue this proposition at length, as it is presumed that the Court considered the matter when it
passed upon the petition for certiorari (263 U. S. 692),
and when it granted a similar petition at. the suit of the
Government (United States*v. Gulf Refining Co., 262
U. S. 738). It is sufficient to submit that the former
holding in United States v. Dickinson, 213 U. S. 92, is
not now an authority to the contrary, in view of the significant changes which have been made in the statute
since that case was decided. Act of March 3, 1911, c.
231, § 240, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157, amending the Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 6, 26 Stat. 826, 828. An examination of the committee reports, and of the statements
made by committee members upon the floor of the Senate, clearly shows that the framers of that section of the
Judicial Code intended that the United States should be
permitted to bring up criminal cases from the Circuit
Court of Appeals by certiorari. The section was, in fact,
amended during its passage through the Senate, in order to accomplish that result. Cong. Rec. 61st Congress, 3rd Sess., vol. 46, part 3, p. 2134; vol. 46, part 4,
pp. 3762, 4000, 4001.
The Club was formed and the license procured at
Johnston's request, at his expense, and for his benefit.
The sole reason for its existence is to be found in the
provision of the state laws which permitted only incorporated clubs to hold boxing licenses. The whole device
was merely a subterfuge to permit Johnston to do indirectly through the medium of a corporation what the
state law prevented him from doing directly as an individual. One may be liable criminally for acts done
under the cloak of corporate existence, even though the
corporation is a separate entity. United States v. Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 257, 274; In re Reiger, 157
Fed. 609; Wood v. United States, 204 Fed. 55, 58. In
this case, however, it is submitted that the acts charged

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

268 U. S.

in the indictment were from the beginning to end the
direct acts of the defendant Johnston alone. The contract between the Club and Johnston was in reality
nothing more nor less than a lease to the defendant of
the Manhattan Casino for A specified cash rent, and was
so understood by all parties. Johnston, as lessee, controlled all the arrangements for the contests, sold the
tickets, and collected the tax. Johnston had agreed with
the Club that he would pay both state and federal taxes.
His assistant, O'Brien, actually did pay the state tax in
full, submitting over his signature the reports required
by the state Treasurer. But neither he nor anyone else
took any steps toward paying over the federal tax to the
Collector of Internal Revenue. The Revenue Act of 1918
requires that the tax shall be paid by the spectators and
collected by the person who receives the payments from
the spectators. The Act looks to the person who is in
actual control of admissions. Treas. Dep. Int. Rev. Reg.
43, part 1, Art. 64, p. 98, approved January 26, 1921.
Even if it be held that the Club was also liable for the
tax, the defendant Johnston was none the less properly
convicted. Even assuming that the Club failed to account for the taxes, it was not necessary to charge that
Johnston had aided or abetted in the failure. Under
§ 1308 (d), and § 332 of the Penal Code, he could be
charged as a principal.
A collector of tax moneys is not a debtor to the United
States; he is a bailee. United States v. Thomas, 15
Wall. 337, 352. The amount of this tax is kept separate
from the price of admissions; and the regulations of the
Treasury Department require that the price of admission, the amount of the tax, and the total of admission
plus tax be printed as separate items on every ticket
sold. It is submitted that the clear purpose of both the
law and the regulations is to impose upon the person collecting admissions the capacity quoad haec of a govern-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
220

223

Argument for Respondent.

ment agent. He is the instrumentality through which
the United States takes the tax directly from the spectators. The case is not analogous to that of income or
other taxes of that nature. The collector of entertainment taxes stands upon a different footing. The tax is
not upon him; it is upon the spectator. His duty is to
collect the tax from the spectator. He collects it, and
it comes lawfully into his possession, as the agent of the
United States; and if he converts it to his own use, he
commits the crime of embezzlement. Grin v. Shine, 187
U. S. 181; United States v. U. S. Brokerage & Trading
Co., 262 Fed. 459; Schell v. United States, 261 Fed. 593.
Mr. Thomas C. Bradley, for respondent.
The purpose of the Criminal Appeals Act is to grant
to the Government the right to review the decisions of
the lower courts only in cases therein specifically enumerated. Since that act is inclusive and no provision is made
for a writ of certiorari by this Court directed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the Circuit Court of Appeals
had reversed a judgment of conviction, this Court has no
jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by the Government. Section 240 of the present Judicial Code in no
way supersedes the Criminal Appeals Act, and in no way
does it enlarge the right of the Government to appeal in
the case at bar by certiorari or other means. United
States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States v. Dickinson, 213 U. S. 92.
The indictment is fatally defective in that it wholly
fails to charge any offense against the laws of the United
States. It is not conceivable that a person or corporation
owing a duty under the Revenue Law to collect and pay
taxes to the Government can by contract shift that obligation to another so that the other will be obligated to
the Government and liable civilly and criminally for failure to carry out such contract. Such a contract may

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argu nent for Respondent.

268 U. S.

properly be made by the parties, but if made it is their
responsibility as to its faithful performance. If A were
proprietor of a theater, duly licensed and doing business,
there is no reason why he should not, for reasons of his
own, contract with B to operate the theater, under his
license, and pay him a fixed sum weekly or monthly and
in addition provide that B pay license-fees, fixed charges
and expenses of entertainment and all state and federal
taxes. That was exactly what was done in this case.
But can it be said that by this contract A is relieved of
liability to the Government either as to the collection or
payment of the taxes and that the Government must
look to B for satisfaction? To answer in the affirmative
would be to open the door to fraud and permit a responsible party with property to substitute a totally irresponsible party in his stead and thus defraud the Government of large sums of money. Even if it were shown
that he actually and in fact personally collected the tax
under the contract, he could not be held under the indictment in this case, for no such theory is presented and no
allusion to such a contract or arrangment is made. He is
charged as though he held the exhibitions as principal and
there is no reference made to the Central Manhattan Boxing Club, Inc., or to any contract with that Club. The
failure to plead the contract or charge the facts upon
which the Government relied to support such a theory,
we submit, renders the indictment a nullity.
Sections 800 and 802 of the Revenue Act of 1918 provide (a) that all persons that pay and secure admission
to any place where admissions are charged shall pay, in
addition to admissions, a tax of 1 cent for each 10 cents
or fraction thereof paid for admission, or (b) that, being admitted free to any place where admissions are
charged, "the person so admitted" shall pay the amount
of the tax and that in both instances the tax shall be
collected by the person receiving any payments for ad-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
220

Argument for Respondent.

mission or who admits any person free, and (c) that returns and payments of the amounts so collected shall
be made as provided in § 502. It will be seen that it is
the duty of the person securing admissions to pay the tax
and the duty of the proprietor to first collect the tax and
then pay it over to the Government. He is penalized
by the Act, § 1308(b), if he fails to do either. He cannot pay it in the first instance. He must collect it from
the persons securing admissions, whether paid or free,
and it is not a tax on admissions paid, but is a tax on
"admissions" based on the price of the tickets, whether
paid or free, by which "admissions " are secured.
The only return required by the Act is the return of
the amount of taxes collected, as provided in the sections quoted above. Yet the pleader charges and the
'Court permitted conviction for failure to make a return
of the amount of admission fees collected. As the law
required that the tax be collected on all "admissions,"
paid or free, and as the reports of the New York State
authorities show that a large percentage of the "admissions" were free, it can readily be seen that to report
merely the amounts "of money collected . . . in
admissions" would fall far short of serving any useful
purpose. The requirement of the Act was, as stated, to
make "returns of the amounts so collected (taxes) at
the same time and in the manner as provided in § 502."
The offense of embezzlement here charged is not defined or created by federal law. Section 47 of the Criminal Code merely provides that "whoever shall embezzle
money of the United States, shall be fined," etc.
The statute simply adopts and fixes a punishment for
the offense of embezzlement at common law. United
States v. Allen, 150 Fed. 152. In the indictment, there
is no allegation of any relation or capacity whatever,
nor any allegation that defendant was authorized to collect the taxes for the United States.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The Treasury Department, by Regulation 43-1, Art.
35, has held that the money collected as admissions tax
is not the property of the Government until paid to the
Government, and evidently Congress had that in mind
when it provided for payment by those who procured
admissions, and collection and accounting by the proprietor, with drastic criminal penalties for failure of either
to comply with the Act (§ 1308-b).
The money which the defendant is charged with having embezzled, was not money of the United States, but
was simply money due the United States. Int. Rev.
Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 25, June 19, 1922, p. 18.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent, Johnston, was convicted on an indictment charging in separate counts a failure to pay over the
tax upon admission fees received at certain boxing
matches and a failure to make return to the collector of
internal revenue of the money so received, contrary to
the Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, §§ 800, 802, 1308(b);
40 Stat. 1057, 1120, 1143. He also was convicted under
§ 47 of the Criminal Code of embezzling the amounts
collected as taxes on the same occasions. Act of March
4, 1909, c. 321, § 47; 35 Stat. 1097. The judgment was
reversed and the District Court was directed to dismiss
the indictment by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 290
Fed. 120. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court
as the decision was said to be of grave importance to the
administration of the revenue laws. 263 U. S. 692.
So far as the charge of embezzlement goes we think
that the Court below and the intimation of the Treasury
Department that it followed were clearly right. However it may have been under other statutes (United
States v. Thomas, 15 Wall. 337) it seems to us that under
this law the person required to pay over the tax is a

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
220

Opinion of the Court.

debtor and not a bailee. The money paid for the tax is
not identified at the outset but is paid with the price of
the ticket that belongs to the owner of the show. We
see no ground for requiring the ticket office of a theatre
to create a separate fund by laying aside the amount of
the tax on each ticket and to keep it apart, either in a
strong box or as a separate deposit in a bank. Reports are
required only once a month, §§ 802, 502, which does not
look as if the Government were dealing with these people
otherwise than with others answerable for a tax. Further
argument seems unnecessary upon this point.
On the other counts we are of opinion that the Court
below was wrong. We do not grant a certiorari to review evidence and discuss specific facts. But the Court
seems to have regarded the formal relations of Johnston
to the Central Manhattan Boxing Club, Inc., made necessary by the laws of New York, as conclusive upon his
relations to the United States. The laws of New York
permitted a license only to a corporation and so Johnston
may have assumed the technical position of agent and
manager for the Club. But if as a matter of fact all this
was machinery to enable Johnston to give exhibitions,
collect the entrance fees and make himself liable for the
tax, it properly might be alleged that he collected the fees
and if he wilfully failed to pay that he refused and failed
to pay the tax. As the jury found Johnston guilty,
although with an earnest recommendation of mercy, we
are of opinion that the sentence and judgment of the District Court, which was much less than it might have been
under § 1308(b), must be affirmed.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

