FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
472

473

Syllabus.

of May 11, last; and that the receivership has served its
purpose and is now ready to be closed:
It is considered, ordered and decreed that the receivership in this cause be, and it now is, declared at an end;
and that the receiver be, and he now is, relieved and discharged from further duty, obligation and responsibility
in the premises.
In terminating the receivership the Court expresses its
high appreciation of the admirable service of the receiver
in satisfactorily managing a large estate in novel and
difficult eircumstances.
FRICK ET AL. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 122, 123, 124, 125. Argued December 7, 1923.-Decided June
1, 1925.

1. A state statute attempting to tax the transfer of tangible personal property having an actual situs in other States transcends
the power of the State so attempting and contravenes the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 488.
2. The power to regulate the transmission, administration and distribution of tangible personal property on the death of the owner
rests with the State of its situs, the laws of other States having no
bearing save as that State expressly or tacitly adopts them; and
then their bearing is attributable to such adoption and not to
any force of their own. P. 491.
3. A law of Pennsylvania (Act No. 258, Ls. of 1919, 521) provides
that where a person domiciled in the State dies seized and possessed of real or personal property, its transfer by will or intestate laws, whether the property be in that State or elsewhere,
shall be taxed at specified percentages of the clear value of the
property transferred, such value to be ascertained by deducting
debts and expenses of administration from the gross value of the
estate, but without making any deduction for taxes paid to the
United States or any other State. Held: (1) That the law is not
an escheat, but a tax, law. P. 492. (2) That a tax so levied
was void in so far as based on transfer of decedent's tangible
personal property in New York and Massachusetts, where

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

268 U. S.

ancillary letters were granted, the property administered and
transfer taxes imposed and collected. P. 496.
4. A State, being without power to tax directly the transfer of
tangible personal property in another State, can not accomplish the
same thing indirectly by taking the whole of the decendent's estate,
including that foreign property, as the basis for measuring the tax
on the transfer of that part of the estate which lies within its
jurisdiction. Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, and Plummer v.
Coler, 178 U. S. 115, distinguished. P. 494.
5. The State which created a corporation has power to tax the
transfer of its stock on death of a.stockholder, and to enforce the
tax by means practically making the State a lienor in possession,
irrespective of the decedent's domicil and the actual situs of the
stock certificates. P. 497.
6. This power being superior to the jurisdiction over the stock of
another State in which the decedent stockholder resided, the
tax imposed by the State of the corporation must be paid before
the stock can be brought into administration in the State of his
domicil; and a statute of the domiciliary State (Penna. Ls. 1919,
521, supra,) which does not allow the value paid out of his estate
for this purpose to be deducted in computing the domiciliary
transfer tax, in effect taxes what is not within the State's jurisdiction and violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id.
7. The federal "estate" tax and the Pennsylvania "transfer" tax
both are imposed as excises on the transfer of property from a
decedent, and both take effect at the instant of transfer, so that
neither has priority in time over the other. P. 498.
8. The taxing power of federal and state governments is generally
so far concurrent as to render it admissible for both to tax the
same subject at the same time. P. 499.
9. Neither the United States nor the State in determining the
amounts of-its transfer tax is under any constitutional obligation to
make any deduction on account of the tax of the other. Whether,
if the estate were insufficient to pay both, the United States
should be preferred, is not here involved. P. 500.
277 Pa. 242, reversed.

ERROR to judgments of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania sustaining taxes assessed under the State transfer
tax law. Petitions for writs of certiorari in these cases
are denied.

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Messrs. George Wharton Pepperand George B. Gordon
for plaintiffs in error.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania having construed
the statute as an exercise of the State's taxing power, it
must stand or fall as such; it cannot be saved by an
attempt to treat it as an escheat act. Cope's Estate,
191 Pa., 1.
In measuring the tax on the right of transmission,
Pennsylvania had no right to include in the clear value
of the estate tangible articles of personal property which
had an actual and readily ascertainable situs in New York
and Massachusetts.
When analyzed, a tax on property is seen to be a tax
on the thing called ownership, which is merely a person's
legally protected interest in the thing owned. A tax on
transmission is a tax on the substitution of one person
for another in respect of the relation between the person
and the thing. While the distinction is entirely thinkable, there is no really sound or substantial reason for
reaching in the one case a result different from that
reached in the other.
Both before and after the decision in the Union Transit
Case, 199 U. S. 194, are many decisions of this Court in
which decisive emphasis was laid upon the distinction
between tangible and intangible property, and where the
nature of the tax as being a tax on property or merely a
tax measured by the value of property was immaterial.
Discussing Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Penna., 141 U. S.
18; DelawareLackawanna etc. R. R. v. Penna., 198 U. S.
341; Weaver's Estate v. State, 110 Iowa 328; New York
Central v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584; Southern Pacific v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63; Fidelity and Columbia Trust Ca. v.
Louisville, 245 U. S., 54; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S.,
625; Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S., 66.
In all these cases, except the Pullman Case and Wallace
v. Hines, the act under review was passed by the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

268 U. S.

the domicile and was either a tax on the ownership of
property or a tax on the use or transmission of property.
In every case in which the property was intangible personalty the tax was upheld. In every case in which
tangible personalty with a situs outside the domiciliary
State was either sought to be taxed or to be included in
the measure of the tax, the tax was adjudged invalid.
The Pullman Car Case and the case of New York Central
v. Miller, 202 U. S. 594, are not exceptions.
The limited power of each of the States to reach by
taxation tangible personalty physically beyond its boundaries is in marked contrast with the plenary power of the
United States to use its jurisdiction over its domiciled
citizens as a basis for taxing their tangible personalty
wherever it may be. United States v. Bennett, 232 U. S.
299.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; Wheeler v. New
York, 233 U. S. 434; and Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525 discussed and explained as consistent with the principles contended for.
In many of these cases there is more or less reference
to one of the basic principles of taxation, which is that
the citizen enjoys a protection of person and property,
which is a reciprocal of the power of the sovereign to tax
him. It is of course not possible to test the validity
of a tax act by a. specific relation between the amount
or nature of the tax and the degree of protection afforded.
Where a right which is the subject of tax cannot possibly
have been conferred by the taxing State, but exists because of the act of another sovereignty, it may not lawfully be included in the tax. Louisville Ferry Co. v.
Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385. Cf, Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178.
The right to impose a transfer tax upon personal property must necessarily be based upon the same jurisdictional fact as the taxation of the transfer of real estate.

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

We submit that it is the law that, while the transfer of
intangible personalty can be taxed at the domicile of the
owner, either inter vivos or upon death, that is true
only because of the fiction mobilia sequuntur personam.
Originally this theory applied to tangibles as well as to
intangibles, but it has long since passed away as to anything except intangibles. This, because fiction, must
yield to fact. These tangible articles, pictures, furniture,
household stores, cows, horses, agricultural implements,
have a real, physical existence and necessarily have a
situs as surely as buildings and lands have. Their situs
is in New York and Massachusetts, not in Pennsylvania.
Therefore, this tax cannot be sustained upon authority
of the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam, either under
the decisions of this Court or under the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania: Eidman v. Martinez,
184 U. S. 578; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v.
New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Commonwealth v. Delaware,
Lackawanna etc. R. R., 145 Pa. 96; Commonwealth v.
American Dredging Co., 122 Pa. 386; Hostetter's Estate,
267 Pa. 193.
It is argued that, since there was property in Pennsylvania which did pass and which was undoubtedly subject
to its jurisdiction, the State could impose such conditions
as it pleased upon the transfer of that property; that
when the residuary legatees came into Pennsylvania to
get their share in the residuary estate, the State could
say to them: "You shall take only what we see fit to
allow you to take, and what you can take is only that
which is left after we have deducted an ad valorem tax
upon the value of all the property, adding to the value
of the property within our jurisdiction the value of all
real estate and all tangible personal assets located without
our jurisdiction."
We submit that the levying of a capital tax, an ad
valorem tax, a transfer tax, based upon any such theory

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

268 U. S.

and actually producing such a result, is unjust, is confiscatory, is a violation of due process of law. The establishment of such a proposition would mean the overturning of the whole-theory of taxation. At the decedent's
death these tangible articles of personal property passed
by virtue of the laws of Massachusetts and New York,
not of Pennsylvania.. Harvey v. Richards, 1 Mason, 381;
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; In re LorillardGriffiths
v. Catforth, 1922, 2 Ch., 638. It is a question for the
common law of New York and Massachusetts how far
they will recognize the laws of Pennsylvania as to the
validity of a Pennsylvania will and of the succession to
property located in New York and Massachusetts, and
in so far as they do recognize it, they do so because such
is the common law of New York and Massachusetts, not
because it is the law of Pennsylvania. A State can not
say that the tangibles which are in the State and within
its taxing powers may be valued, for tax purposes, not at
their actual value, but at the value of all decedent's estate
everywhere. The legislature of Pennsylvania manifestly
never intended to do so, but in plain language attempted
to tax the transfer of property outside of the State. But
be this as it may, we submit with confidence that no court
in Christendom ever sustained any such proposition. It
is not due process of law. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 76; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 529.
Upon the precise point there is no case decided by this
Court or any other federal court. There is dictum in
Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, 537. The decisions
of the state courts axe conflicting. Weaver's Estate, 110
Iowa, 328; State v. Brevard, 62 N. 0. 141; Joyslin's
Estate, 76 Vermont, 88; Matter of Estate of Swift, 137
N. Y., 77. Distinguishing: Carpenterv. Pennsylvania,17
How. 456; Hartman's Estate, 70 N. J. Eq. 664; State v.
Spokane & Eastern Trust Co. (Wash.), 211 Pac. 734.
The State of Pennsylvania has no power to levy an
estate tax on the value of shares of capital stock of cor-

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Pennsylvania.

porations incorporated under the laws of other States
without deducting the paramount taxes exacted by those
other States as a transfer inheritance tax on such shares
of stock. The Matter of the Estate of Henry Miller, 184
Calif. 674.
The State of Pennsylvania has no power to levy an
estate tax on the value of the whole estate without deducting the paramount estate tax exacted by the United
States. In the first place, this is inconsistent with the
paramount taxing power of the United States. (Discussing the opinion of the court below in this case and in
Kirkpatrick's Estate, 275 Pa.. 271, in contrast with
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.) A state statute sustainable only upon a theory inconsistent with federal
supremacy is invalid per se, even if in a particular case
there happens to be enough money to pay the demands
of both sovereignties.
. In the second place, refusal to allow the deduction conflicts with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, both because of the injustice of the measure
of the tax, and because the tax is thereby extended to
property withdrawn from the state jurisdiction. Jennie
Smith's Estate, 29 Pa. Dist. Rep. 917; Hazardv. Bliss, 43
R. I., dissent 431; Hollis v. Treasurer and Receiver General, 242 Mass. 163; Flaherty v. Hanson, 215 U. S. 515.
The State cannot directly impose a tax upon the portion of Mr. Frick's estate which the Federal Government
has expropriated. It cannot do this, whether the Federal
Government took it in kind or took it in money.
Mr. David A. Reed, with whom Messrs. George W.
Woodruff, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and Maynard Teall were on the brief, for defendant in error.
The State of domicile of a decedent may include in the
measure of its transfer inheritance tax the value of all the
personal property of such decedent, including tangibles

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pennsylvania.

268 U. S.

situated in other States. It is a fundamental principle
that real estate descends pursuant to the law of its situs,
without reference to the law of the owner's domicile, and
that personal property, whether tangible or intangible,
and wheresoever situate, descends pursuant to the law
of the owner's domicile. The law of the domicile, therefore, may impose upon the transfer of tangible personalty
such conditions by way of taxation or otherwise as it
may deem expedient, provided the conditions are not
forbidden by constitutional restrictions. It is mere metaphysics to argue whether the transfer is effected by virtue
of the law of the situs or the law of the domicile; the
fact is that tangible personal property passes according
to and to no greater extent than provided by the law of
the domicile. Wherever the property may be, the c.ourt
administering it looks first to the law of the domicile.
Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625.
It is admitted that Pennsylvania may not constitu-.
tionally impose a tax upon tangible personal property
situated outside the State. Union Refrigerator Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. But the Pennsylvania
tax is not imposed upon any specific property whatever.
A sum of money computed upon the value of the estate,
such value being determined as of the date of death, is
lawfully exacted by the Commonwealth for a privilege
created by statute. The tax is an excise upon the privilege of transfer. It is not upon the privilege of receiving-affirmative legislation is not needed to permit acceptance of a gift-but upon the statutory privilege of
transferring or transmitting property by will or intestacy.
Kirkpatrick's Estate, 275 Pa. 271; Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625;
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283.
That such transfer inheritance taxes are not property
taxes'is necessarily implied in the conclusion that United
States bonds or other clearly non-taxable securities are

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Pennsylvania.

properly included in the property upon which the tax is
computed. Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115. Similarly,
no one has doubted that the federal inheritance tax
should be computed upon the obligations of a State, which
the federal government may not tax directly.
Since a transfer inheritance tax is not a property tax,
and since property which, by reason of its tax-exempt
character, is beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing State
may be included in the property upon the value of which
the tax is computed, it would seem to follow as a corollary
that personal property which, by reason of its geographical situation, is beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing
State may, under some circumstances, be included. Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525.
Where the situs of the property transferred is outside
the taxing State, and the decedent was a non-resident of
the taxing State, the transfer is not taxable. Hood's
Estate, 21 Pa. 106. Where the property is real estate
situated outside the taxing State, the transfer is not
taxable. DeWitt's Estate, 266 Pa. 548; Marr's Estate,
240 Pa. 38. Where the property is intangible, the transfer is taxable, since the property passes according to the
law of the domiciliary state. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240
U. S. 625; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; Greves v.
Shaw, 173 Mass. 205; Hostetter's Estate, 267 Pa. 193.
Where the property is a chose in action and therefore intangible, but is evidenced by a promissory note and hence
has no existence apart from the paper upon which the
obligation is written, and the paper has an actual physical
situs within the taxing State, there, even though the deceased holder of the note was a non-resident of the taxing State, and the maker is also a non-resident, the note
itself is within the control of the taxing State, and the
transfer of it may be taxed. Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233
U. S. 434. Where the property is tangible personalty

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pennsylvania.

268 U. S.

situated in the taxing State, of which the decedent was a
non-resident, since the property is within the jurisdiction
and control of the taxing State, the transfer is taxable.
Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S. 517; Blackstone v. Miller, supra.
Where the taxing State is also the State of the decedent's
domicile, and where the property is tangible personalty
having a situs outside the State-the case at bar,-there
again the transfer is taxable. Blackstone v. Miller, supra.
In Bullen v. Wisconsin, supra, it was held that the
domiciliary State could constitutionally impose an inheritance tax on the transfer of bonds kept outside the State.
In Carpenter v. Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456, it was held
that personal property situated outside the domiciliary
State was subject to the inheritance tax thereof. The
property expressly described in the report consisted of
intangibles. It is not altogether clear whether any tangible property was involved, but the opinion does not
suggest that the point would be material. In Hartman's
Estate, 70 N. J. Eq. 664, it was squarely held that the
transfer of tangible personalty owned by a resident decedent but situated outside the State, was taxable. In
Swift's Estate, 137 N. Y. 77, the Court of Appeals of New
York, with one dissent, reached the same conclusion. The
same decision was reached by the Supreme Court of Washington in Sherwood's Estate, 211 Pac. Rep. 734. In
Weaver's Estate, 110 Iowa 328, it was held that the
transfer of certain tangibles having a foreign situs was
not subject to state inheritance tax, but the decision was
based entirely upon the intent of the legislature as expressed in the statute.
The law of England is in accord with the authorities
above cited. Matter of the Estate of Ewin, 1 Crompton
and Jervis, 150; Attorney General v. Napier, 6 Exch.
Rep. 216; Re Duchess of Manchester, 81 L. Jour. Rep.
N. S., 329 (1912).
The fact is that, though the tangible personalty here
in question is situated in New York and Massachusetts,

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Pennsylvania.

it cannot be transferred by inheritance except with reference to the provisions of Pennsylvania law. The theory
of plaintiffs in error is that Massachusetts and New York
statutes have incorporated Pennsylvania law by reference,
thereby changing it to Massachusetts or New York law.
Our own theory is that by the comity of States (in -this
case evidenced by statutes) and the traditions of AngloSaxon jurisprudence, the domiciliary law is given extraterritorial effect in this situation. But whether the correct explanation be the one theory or the other, there can
be no doubt of the fact, namely, that the transfer of this
property cannot be effected without reference to the provisions of Pennsylvania law. That law is "needed to
establish the inheritance." .Bullen v. Wisconsin, supra.
Plaintiffs in error lay special emphasis on the fact that
statutes of New York and Massachusetts provide in express words that the property shall pass according to
Pennsylvania law. But can it be doubted that the provisions of Pennsylvania law would be given effect in New
York and Massachusetts even in the absence of such
statutes?) The statutes are merely declaratory of a
familiar principle.
Plaintiffs in error have cited several cases wherein this
Court has held to be invalid state statutes imposing capital stock and franchise taxes on domestic corporations
when property having a situs outside the taxing State was
included in the property taxed. Those were cases of
taxes on property, hence have no application here, because the inheritance transfer tax of Pennsylvania is not
a tax on property. Union Refrigerator Case, 199 U. S.
at 211.
In Looney v. Crane Company, 245 U. S. 178, and Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66, involving corporation excise
taxes held invalid because property outside the taxing
State was included in measuring the amount, the complaining corporations were foreign corporations. The cor

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Pennsylvania.

268 U. S.

poration laws of foreign States are neither incorporated by
reference nor given extraterritorial effect.
Whether a decedent's property be transferred by will
or intestate succession, the real estate passes in accordance with the law of the situs-what the domiciliary law
may provide is immaterial. But if the property be personalty, then, whether it be tangible or intangible, pictures or stocks, the persons entitled must be determined
by reference to the provisions of the domiciliary law. As
a matter of history and piractice the line is drawn between real estate and personal property. State Tax on
Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Bullen v. Wisconsin,
supra.
Inheritance taxes paid to Pennsylvania, to other States,
and to the United States, are not deductible. Kirkpatrick's Estate, 275 Pa. 271. The stocks were transferred
to somebody at the moment cf the testator's death; if
that were not so, they would have been for a considerable
period without an owner. Pennsylvania was not required
to adopt as the measure of its tax the value of the stocks
to the executors, or their value for administration purposes in Pennsylvania, but very properly adopted market
value at the date of the testator's death-when his interest ceased. As was pointed out by this Court in several cases above cited, the transfer of title to stocks of
foreign corporations owned by this estate could not be
effected without invoking the provisions of Pennsylvania
law. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 207. The fallacy of the argument that the value of foreign property
is reduced by the amount of inheritance taxes paid to
foreign States lies in failing to.observe the fundamental
principle of inheritance taxation, namely, that the tax is
not upon or out of the property, but upon the privilege of
transfer. As well might it be argued that an inheritance
tax computed upon the value of an estate including
United States bonds is a taking or extinguishing of part
of the value of the bonds. Plummer v. Coler, supra.

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Argument for Pennsylvania.

The argument that the federal estate tax must be
deducted is based principally upon two propositions:
First, Pennsylvania's refusal to deduct is an interference
with the "paramount" taxing power of the United
States; second, it is in violation of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. See New York Trust
Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345. If either the state or the
federal government be "paramount" in this field, it is
the state and not the federal government. The privilege
of transfer is granted, affirmatively and exclusively, by
state legislation. Take that legislation away, and the
privilege now taxed by Congress does not exist. If the
State does not take the privilege away entirely, but limits
it, as, for example, by conditioning it upon payment of
a tax to the State, the privilege taxed by Congress is the
privilege as so limited and so conditioned. The condition
inheres in the privilege, and if the condition is not performed, there is no privilege for Cdngress to tax. Thus
the State comes first. Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523. If
plaintiffs in error are correct in their argument that Pennsylvania has interfered with the "paramount" taxing
power of the United States, it is not enough that she
deduct the amount of the federal tax. The State should
withdraw entirely from the field of inheritance taxation;
for if the federal taxing power in that field is "paramount," it is difficult to see why it is not also exclusive
so long as Congress sees fit to tax the transfer of estatesas in the case of bankruptcy. That result would be
anomalous, to say the least, since the subject of the tax
is created by the State exclusively. So long ago as 1824,
in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat, 1, 198, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall pointed out that neither federal nor state taxing
power is "paramount" in respect to the other. The
argument that Pennsylvania's refusal to deduct the federal tax violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment reduces itself to the proposition that, before

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

the state tax accrues, the estate has already been reduced
by the amount of the federal tax. This Court answered
that argument very fully in New York Trust Co. v.
Eisner, supra.
This question of deducting the taxes of other jurisdictions is not a new one. It has been raised in many state
courts, and always has been dealt with as a problem of
construing the particular statute. Matter of Gihon, 169
N. Y. 443; Succession of Gheens, 148 La. 1017; Week's
Estate, 169 Wis. 316; Bierstadt Estate, 178 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 836; Penfold's Estate, 216 N. Y. 171; Matter of
Sherman, 179 App. Div. 497 (affirmed 222 N. Y. 540);
Sanford's Estate, 188 Iowa 833; Hazard v. Bliss, 43 R. I.
431; Kirkpatricks Estate, 275 Pa. 271; Hooper v. Shaw,
176 Mass. 190; State v. Probate Court, 97 Minn. 532;
People v. Pasfield, 284 Ill. 450; People v. Northern Trust
Co., 289 Ill. 475; Knight's Estate, 261 Pa. 537; Otto's
Estate, 257 Pa. 155; "Roebling'sEstate, 89 N. J. Eq. 163;
State v. First Calumet Trust & Savings Bank, 71 Ind.
App. 467; People v. Bemis, 68 Col. 48; Corbin v. Townshend, 92 Conn. 501; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Burrell,
238 Mass. 544.
New York Tr. Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345, held that
state legacy taxes were not deductible before computation
of the federal tax, and Revenue Act 1921, § 403(a) so
provides.
Messrs. Carl Sherman, Attorney General of New York,
and Seth T. Cole filed a brief as amici curiae, for the State
of New York, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These four cases involve the constitutional validity of
particular features of a statute of Pennsylvania imposing
a tax on the transfer of property by will or intestate laws.
Act No. 258, Pa. Laws 1919, 521.

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

Henry C. Frick, domiciled in Pennsylvania, died testate
December 2, 1919, leaving a large estate. By his will he
disposed of the entire estate-giving about 53 per cent. for
charitable and public puposes and passing the rest to or
for the use of individual beneficiaries. Besides real and
personal property in Pennsylvania, the estate included
tangible personalty having an actual situs in New York,
tangible personalty having a like situs in Massachusetts,
and various stocks in corporations of States other than
Pennsylvania. The greater part of the tangible personalt, in New York,' having a value of $13,132,391.00,
was given to a corporation of that State for the purposes
of a public art gallery, and tho other part, - having a
value of $77,818.75, to decedent's widow. The tangible
personalty in Massachusetts,' having a value of $325,534.25, was also given to the widow. The will was probated in Pennsylvania, and letters testamentary were
granted there. It was also proved in New York' and
Massachusetts, and ancillary letters were granted in those
States. Under the laws of the United States the executors were required to pay to it, and did pay, an estate tax
of $6,338,898.68; and under the laws of Kansas, West
Virginia and other States they were required to pay to
such States, and did pay, large sums in taxes imposed as
a prerequisite to an effective transfer from a non-resident
deceased of stocks in corporations of those States.
The Pennsylvania statute provides that where a person domiciled in that State dies seized or possessed of
1 This consisted of rare paintings, rugs, furniture, bronzes, porcelains and other art treasures known as "The Frick Collection" and
housed in a building in New York City specially constructed for the
purpose.
2 This consisted of furniture, household furnishings, automobiles,
tools, etc., in Mr. Frick's New York house and garage.
3 This consisted of paintings, other objects of art, furniture, household furnishings, farming implements, etc., on Mr. Frick's estate at
Prides Crossing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

property, real or personal, a tax shall be laid on the transfer of the property from him by will or intestate laws,
whether the property be in that State or elsewhere; that
the tax shall be 2 per cent. of the clear value of so much
of the property as is transferred to or for the use of designated relatives of the decedent and 5 per cent. of the
clear value of so much of it as is transferred to or for the
use of others; and that the clear value shall be ascertained by taking the gross value of the estate and deducting therefrom the decedent's debts and the expenses of
administration, but without making any deduction for
taxes paid to the United States or to any other State.
In applying this statute to the Frick estate the taxing
officers included the value of the tangible personalty in
New York and Massachusetts in the clear value on which
they computed the tax; and in fixing that value refused
to make any deduction on account of the estate tax paid
to the United States or the stock-transfer taxes paid to
other States. In proceedings which reached the Supreme
Court of the State the action of the taxing officers and the
resulting tax were upheld by that court, 277 Pa. 242. The
matter was then brought here on writs of error under
§ 237 of the Judicial Code.
The plaintiffs in error are the executors and an interested legatee. They contended in the state court, and
contend here, that in so far as the Pennsylvania statute
attempts to tax the transfer of tangible personal property
having an actual situs in States other than Pennsylvania
it transcends the power of that State, and thereby contravenes the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
This precise question has not been presented to this
Court before, but there are many decisions dealing with
cognate questions which point the way to its solution.
These decisions show, first, that the exaction by a State
of a tax which it is without power to impose is a taking

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

of property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment; secondly, that while a State
may so shape its tax laws as to reach every object which
is under its jurisdiction it cannot give them any extraterritorial operation; and, thirdly, that as respects tangible personal property having an actual situs in a particular State, the power to subject it to state taxation
rests exclusively in that State, regardless of the domicil
of the owner. Cleveland, Painesville and Ashtabula
R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 15 Wall. 300, 319, 325; Louisville and Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S.
385, 396; Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia, 198
U. S.299; Delaware, Lackawanna and Western R. R. Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341, 356; Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 38; International
PaperCo.v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 142.
In Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky the
question presented was whether, consistently with the
restriction imposed by the due process of law clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the State.of Kentucky could
tax a corporation of that State upon its tangible personal
property having an actual situs in other States. The
question was much considered, prior cases were reviewed,
and a negative answer was given. The grounds for the
decision are reflected in the following excerpts from the
opinion:
"It is also essential to the validity of a tax that the
property shall be within the territorial jurisdiction of the
taxing power. Not only is the operation of state laws
limited to persons and property within the boundaries of
the State, but property which is wholly and exclusively
within the jurisdiction of another State, receives none of
the protection for which the tax is supposed to be the
compensation. This rule receives its most familiar illustration in the cases of land which, to be taxable, must be

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

within the limits of the State. Indeed, we know of no
case where a legislature has assumed to impose a tax upon
land within the jurisdiction of another State, much less
where such action has been defended by any court. It is
said by this Court in the Foreign-held Bond case, 15
Wall. 300, 319, that no adjudication should be necessary
to establish so obvious a proposition as that property
lying beyond the jurisdiction of a State is not a subject
upon which her taxing power can be legitimately exercised. The argument against the taxability of land
within the jurisdiction of another State applies with equal
cogency to tangible personal property beyond the jurisdiction. It is not only beyond the sovereignty of the
taxing State, but does not and cannot receive protection
under its laws.
"
"The arguments in favor of the taxation of intangible
property at the domicile of the owner have no application
to tangible property. The fact that such property is
visible, easily found and difficult to conceal, and the tax
readily collectible, is so cogent an argument for its taxation at its situs, that of late there is a general consensus
of opinion that it is taxable in the State where it is permanently located and employed and where it receives
its entire protection, irrespective of the domicil of the

owner.

..

"The adoption of a general rule that tangible personal
property in other States may be taxed at the domicil of
the owner involves possibilities of an extremely seriouscharacter. Not only would it authorize the taxation of
furniture and other property kept at country houses in
other States or even in foreign countries, [and] of stocks
of goods and merchandise kept at branch establishments
when already taxed at the State of their situs, but of
that enormous mass of personal property belonging to
railways and other corporations which might be taxed in
the State where they are incorporated, though their char-

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

ters contemplated the construction and operation of
roads wholly outside the State, and sometimes across the
continent, and when in no other particular they are
subject to its laws and entitled to its protection."
In United States v. Bennet, 232 U. S. 299, 306, where
this Court had occasion to explain the restrictive operation of the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, as applied to the taxation by one State of
property in another, and to distinguish the operation of
the like clause of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to the
taxation by the United States of a vessel belonging to
one of its citizens and located in foreign waters, it was
said:
"The application to the States of the rule of due process
relied upon comes from the fact that their spheres of
activity are enforced and protected by the Constitution
and therefore it is impossible for one State to reach out
and tax property in another without violating the Constitution, for where the power of the one ends the authority of the other begins. But this has no application to
the Government of the United States so .far as its admitted taxing power is concerned. It is coextensive with
the limits of the United States; it knows no restriction
except where one is expressed in or arises from the Constitution and therefore embraces all the attributes which
appertain to sovereignty in the fullest sense. Indeed the
existence of such a wide power is the essential resultant
of the limitation restricting the States within their
allotted spheres
Other decisions show that the power to regulate the
transmission, administration, and distribution of tangible
personal property on the death of the owner rests with
the State of its situs, and that the laws of other States
have no bearing save as that State expressly or tacitly
adopts them-their bearing then being attributable to
such adoption and not to any force of their own. Mager

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

v. Grima, 8 How. 490, 493; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610,
630; Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565, 571; Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 204; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S.
625, 631; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589;
Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 163, 166.
The Pennsylvania statute is a tax law, not an escheat
law. This is made plain by its terms and by the opinion
of the state court. The tax which it imposes is not a
property tax but one laid on the transfer of property on
the death of the owner. This distinction is stressed by
counsel for the State. But to impose either tax the State
must have jurisdiction over the thing that is taxed, and
to impose either without such jurisdiction is mere extortion and in contravention of due process of law. Here
the tax was imposed on the transfer of tangible personalty
having an actual situs in other States-New York and
Massachusetts. This property, by reason of its character
and situs, was wholly under the jurisdiction of those
States and in no way under the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. True, its owner was domiciled in Pennsylvania, but this neither brought it under the jurisdiction
of that State nor subtracted anything from the jurisdiction of New York and MIassachusetts. In these respects
the situation was the same as if the property had been
immovable realty. The jurisdiction possessed by the
States of the situs was not partial but plenary, and included power to regulate the transfer both inter vivos and
on th death of the owner, and power to tax both the
property and the transfer.
Mr. Justice Story said in his work on Conflict of Laws,
§ 550: "A nation within whose territory any personal
property is actually situate has an entire dominion over
it while therein, in point of sovereignty and jurisdiction,
as it has over immovable property situate there. It
may regulate its transfer, and subject it to process and
execution, and provide for and control the uses and dis-

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

493

Opinion of the Court.

position of it, to the same extent that it may exert its
authority over immovable property." And in Pullman's
Car Company v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 22, where
this Court held the actual situs of tangible personalty
rather than the domicil of its owner to be the true test
of jurisdiction and of power to tax, it was said: "No general principles of law are better settled, or more fundamental, than that the legislative power of every State
extends to all property within its borders, and that only
so far as the comity of that State allows can such property
be affected by the law of any other State. The old rule
expressed in the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam, by
which personal property was regarded as subject to the
law of the owner's domicil, grew up in the Middle Ages,
when movable property consisted chiefly of gold and
jewels, which could be easily carried by the owner from
place to place, or secreted in spots known only to himself.
In modern times, since the great increase in amount and
variety of personal property, not immediately connected
with the person of the owner, that rule has yielded more
and more to the lex situs, the law of the place where the
property is kept and used."
In support of the tax counsel for the State refer to
statutes of New York and Massachusetts evidencing an
election by those States to accept and give effect to the
domiciliary law regulating the transfer of personal property of owners dying while domiciled in other States; and
from this they contend that the transfer we are considering was brought under the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania
and made taxable there. We think the contention is not
sound. The statutes do not evidence a surrender or abandonment of jurisdiction, if that were admissible. On the
contrary, they in themselves are an assertion of jurisdiction and an exercise of it. They declare what law shall
apply and require the local courts to give effect to it.
And it should be observed that here the property was

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

administered in those courts and none of it was taken to
the domiciliary State. Obviously the accepted domiciliary law could not in itself have any force or application
outside that State. Only in virtue of its express or tacit
adoption by the States of the situs could it have any force
or application in them. Through its adoption by them it
came to represent their will and this was the sole basis
of its operation there. Burdick on American Constitution, § 257. In keeping with this view New York and
Massachusetts both provide for the taxation of transfers
under the adopted domiciliary law; and they have imposed and collected such a tax on the transfer we are
now considering.
Counsel for the State cite and rely on Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189, and Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S.
625. Both cases related to intangible personalty, which
has been regarded as on a different footing from tangible
personalty. When they are read with this distinction in
mind, and also in connection with other cases before
cited, it is apparent that they do not support the tax in
question.
We think it follows from what we have said that the
transfer of the tangible personalty in New York and
Massachusetts occurred under and in virtue of the jurisdiction and laws of those States and not under the jurisdiction and laws of Pennsylvania, and therefore that
Pennsylvania was without power to tax it.
One ground on which the state court put its decision
was that, in taxing the transfer of the property which
the decedent owned in Pennsylvania, it was admissible
to take as a basis for computing the tax the combined
value of that property and the property in New York
and Massachusetts. Of course, this was but the equivalent of saying that it was admissible to measure the tax
by a standard which took no account of the distinction
between what the State had power to tax and what it had

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

no power to tax, and which necessarily operated to maI.e
the amount of the tax just what it would have been had
the State's power included what was excluded by the
Constitution. This ground, in our opinion, is not tenable.
It would open the way for easily doing indirectly what
is forbidden to be done directly, and would render important constitutional limitations of no avail. If Pennsylvania could tax according to such a standard other States
could. It would mean, as applied to the Frick estate, that
Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts could each
impose a tax based on the value of the entire estate, although severally having jurisdiction of only parts of it.
Without question each State had power to tax the transfer of so much of the estate as was under its jurisdiction,
and also had some discretion in respect of the rate; but
none could use that power and discretion in accomplishing an unconstitutional end, such as indirectly taxing the
transfer of the part of the estate which was under the
exclusive jurisdiction of others. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 114, and cases cited;
Looney v. Crane Company, 245 U. S. 178, 188; International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 141;
Air-Way Corporationv. Day, 266 U. S. 71, 81; Wallace v.
Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69; Louisville and Jeffersonville
Ferry Company v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 395.
The state court cited in support of its view Maxwell v.
Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 539. The case is on the border
line, as is evidenced by the dissent of four members of the
Court. But it does not go so far as its citation by the
state court suggests. The tax there in question was oneimposed by New Jersey on the transfer of stock in a
corporation of that State. The stock was part of the
estate of a decedent who had resided elsewhere. The
state statute, described according to its essence, provided
for a tax graduated in rate according to the value of the
entire estate, and required that where the estate was

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

partly within and partly without the State the transfer
of the part within should bear a proportionate part of
what according to the graduated rate would be the tax on
the whole. The only bearing'which the property without the State had on the tax imposed in respect of the
property within was that it affected the rate of the tax.
Thus, if the entire estate had a value which put
it within the class for which the rate was three per
cent, that rate was to be applied to the value of the
property within the State in computing the tax on its
transfer, although its value separately taken would put it
within the class for which the rate was two per cent.
There was no attempt, as here, to compute the tax in
respect of the part within the State on the value of the
whole. The Court sustained the tax, but distinctly recognized that the State's power was subject to constitutional
limitations, including the due process of law clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and also that it would be a violation of that clause for a State to impose a tax on a thing
within its jurisdiction "in such a way as to really amount
to taxing that which is beyond its authority."
Another case cited by the state court is Plummer v.
Coler, 178 U. S. 115, where it was held that a State, in
taxing the transfer by will or descent of property within
its jurisdiction, might lawfully measure the tax according
to the value of the property, even though it included taxexempt bonds of the United States; and this because the
tax was not on the property but on the transfer. We
think the case is not in point here. The objection to the
present tax is that both the property and the transfer were
within the jurisdiction of other States and without the
jurisdiction of the taxing State.
For the reasons which have been stated it must be held
that the Pennsylvania statute, in so far as it attempts to
tax the transfer of tangible personalty having an actual
situs in other States, contravenes the due process of law
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and is invalid.

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

The next question relates to the provision which requires that, in computing the value of the estate for the
purpose of fixing the amount of the tax, stocks in corporations of other States shall be included at their full value
without any deduction for transfer taxes paid to those
States in respect of the same stocks.
The decedent owned many stocks in corporations of
States, other than Pennsylvania, which subjected their
transfer on death to a tax and prescribed means of enforcement which practically gave those States the status
of lienors in possession.4 As those States had created the
corporations issuing the stocks, they had power to impose
the tax and to enforce it by such means, irrespective of the
decedent's domicile and the actual situs of the stock certificates. Pennsylvania's jurisdiction over the stocks
necessarily was subordinate to that power. Therefore to
bring them into the administration in that State it was
essential that the tax be paid. Th&executors paid it out
of moneys forming part of the estate in Pennsylvania and
the stocks were thereby brought into the administration
there. We think it plain that such yalue as the stocks
had in excess of the tax is all that could be regarded as
within the range of Pennsylvania's taxing power. Estate
of Henry Miller, 184 Cal. 674, 683. So much of the value
as was required to release the superior claim of the other
States was quite beyond Pennsylvania's control. Thus
the inclusion of the full value in the computation on which
that State based its tax, without any deduction for the tax
paid to the other States, was nothing short of applying
that State's taxing power to what was not within its range.
That the stocks, with their full value, were ultimately
brought into the administration in that State does not
4 The nature of the tax and the provisions adopted for enforcing
it are illustrated by c. 357, §§ 1, 2, 13, Laws Kansas 1915, p. 452;
c. 33, §§ 1, 6, 7, Barnes' West Virginia Code, p. 586.

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

help. They were brought in through the payment of the
tax in the other States out of moneys of the estate in
Pennsylvania. The moneys paid out just balanced the
excess in stock value brought in. Yet in computing the
tax in that State both were included.
We are of opinion that in so far as the statute requires
that stocks in corporations of other States be included at
their full value, without deducting the tax paid to those
States, it exceeds the power of the State and thereby infringes the constitutional guaranty of due process of law.
The remaining question relates to the provision declaring that, in determining the value of the estate for the
purpose of computing the tax, there shall be no deduction
of the estate tax paid to the United States. The plaintiffs in error contend that this provision is invalid, first,
as being inconsistent with the constitutional supremacy
of the United States, and, secondly, as making the state
tax in part a tax on the federal tax.
In support of the contention we are referred to several
cases in which state courts have held the federal tax
should be deducted in determining the value on which such
a state tax is computed. But the cases plainly are not in
point. In them the state courts were merely construing an
earliertype of statute requiring that the state tax be computed on the clear or net value of the estate and containing no direction respecting the deduction of the federal
tax. An earlier Pennsylvania statute of that type was so
construed.- Later statutes in the same States expressly
forbidding any deduction of the federal tax have been
construed according to their letter. This is true of the
present Pennsylvania statute. The question here is not
how the statute shall be construed, but whether, as construed by the state court, it is open to the constitutional
objections urged against it.
While the federal tax is called an estate tax and the
state tax is called a transfer tax, both are imposed as

FRICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
473

Opinion of the Court.

excises on the transfer of property from a decedent and
both take effect at the instant of transfer. Thus both are
laid on the same subject, and neither has priority in time
over the other. Subject to exceptions not material here,
the power of taxation granted to the United States does
not curtail or interfere with the taxing power of the several States. This power in the two governments is generally so far concurrent as to render it admissible for both,
each under its own laws and for its own purposes, to tax
the same subject at the same time. A few citations will
make this plain. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 199,
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for this Court, said:
"Congress is authorized to lay and collect taxes, etc., to
pay the debts, and provide for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States. This does not interfere with the power of the States to tax for the support
of their own governments; nor is the exercise of this
power by the States an exercise of any portion of the
power that is granted to the United States. In imposing
taxes for State purposes, they are not doing what Congress is empowered to do. Congress is not empowered
to tax for those purposes which are within the exclusive
province of the States. When, then, each government
exercises the power of taxation, neither is exercising the
power of the other." Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution, § 1068, said: "The power
of Congress, in laying taxes, is not necessarily or naturally
inconsistent with that of the States. Each may lay a
tax on the same property, without interfering with the
action of the other." And in Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 58-60, Mr. Justice White, speaking for this
Court, said that "under our constitutional system both
the national and state governments, moving in their respective orbits, have a common authority to tax many
and diverse objects;" and he further pointed out that the
transfer of property on death "is a usual subject of taxation" and one which falls within that common authority.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

With this understanding of the power in virtue of
which the two taxes are imposed, we are of opinion that
neither the United States nor the State is under any constitutional obligation in determining the amount of its
tax to make any deduction on account of the tax of the
other. With both the matter of making such a deduction
rests in legislative discretion. In their present statutes
both direct that such a deduction be not made. It is not
as if the tax of one, unless and until paid, presented an
obstacle to the exertion of the power of the other. Here
both had power to tax and both exercised it as of the same
moment. Neither encroached on the sphere or power of
the other. The estate out of which each required that
its tax be paid is much more than ample for the payment
of both taxes. No question of supremacy can arise in
such a situation. Whether, if the estate were not sufficient to pay both taxes, that of the United States should
be preferred (see Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 77)
need not be considered. That question is not involved
here.
The objection that when no deduction is made on account of the federal tax the state tax becomes to that
extent a tax on the federal tax and not a tax on the
transfer is answered by what already has been said. But
by way of repetition it may be observed that what the
State is taxing is the transfer of particular property, not
such property depleted by the federal tax. The two taxes
were concurrently imposed and stand on the same plane,
save as the United States possibly might have a preferred
right of enforcement if the estate were insufficient to pay
both.
In conclusion we hold, first, that the value of the tangible personalty in New York and Massachusetts should
not have been included in determining the clear value on
which the Pennsylvania tax was computed; secondly, that
in determining such clear value the stocks in corporations

