OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

268 U. S.

THE STATE OF COLORADO v. TOLL, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 234. Argued April 24, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.
1. A proper remedy for a State which claims that acts of a federal official are without authority and derogate from its quasisovereign authority, is to by bill in equity, in the federal court,
to restrain him as an individual, without joining his superior officers or the United States. P. 230.
2. A decree of the District Court dismissing a bill brought by a
State complaining of an infringement of its right in the highways
and of other reserved powers, held to involve construction of the
Constitution and to be appealable directly to this Court. Id.
3. The Act of January 26, 1915, creating the Rocky Mountain National Park (lid not authorize federal regulation of automobile traffic inconsistent with the right of the State of Colorado over traffic
on her roads traversing the park area. Id.
4. It will not be assumed, without proof and in face of the State's
bill to the contrary, that this right of the State has been ceded
to the United States. P. 231.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing a. bill by which the State of Colorado sought to enAPPEAL

join the superintendent of a national park from carrying out certain park regulations, particularly with re-

gard to automobile traffic, alleged to be unauthorized
by Congress and in derogation of the rights and powers
of the State.
Mr. William L. Boatright, Attorney General of the
State of Colorado, and Mr. Paul W. Lee, with whom Mr.
Geo. H. Shaw was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom the Solicitor General and As-

COLORADO v. TOLL.
228

229

Opinion of the Court.

sistant Attorney General I. K. Wells were on the brief,
for the appellee.
MR. JusTIc,
Court.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

This is a bill brought in the District Court by the State
of Colorado to enjoin the superintendent of the Rocky
Mountain National Park from enforcing certain regulations for the government of the park, which are alleged
to be beyond the authority conferred by Acts of Congress
and to interfere with the sovereign rights of the State.
These regulations forbid any person to reside permanently, engage in any business, or erect buildings in
the park without permission in writing from the Director
of the National Parks Service, provide for the removal
of disorderly persons and forbid their return without permission from the Director, and impose a fine or imprisonment or both for violating these regulations, the defendant, it seems, being the sole judge. .The special subject of complaint is a further regulation subject to similar
penalties that "The park is open to automobiles operated
for pleasure, but not to those carrying passengers who
are paying, either directly or indireatly, for the use
of machines. (Excepting, however, automobiles used
by transportation lines operating under Government
franchises.)" It is alleged that the defendant and his
superior officers assert full authority over all highways
in the park to the exclusion of the State and refuse permission to anyone operating automobiles for hire except
one corporation which has received a permit. It is alleged
that he asserts the right to exact a license fee from privately owned vehicles, although it does not appear that
this has been done in this park. There are many thousands of acres in the park owned by private persons, and
there are houses and hotels that were built before the
park was laid out. It is feared that the same jurisdic-

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tion will be exercised over the forest reservations in the
State and it is alleged that all the main highways connecting the eastern and western parts of the State traverse either the reservation or the park, which last contains about 400 square miles. The roads were built by
counties and the State under the grant of right in Rev.
Sts. ยง 2477 before the park was laid out. It is alleged
that the State never has ceded its power. The bill was dismissed for want of equity by the District Court.
The object of the bill is to restrain an individual from
doing acts that it is alleged that he has no authority to do
and that derogate from the quasi-sovereign authority of
the State. There is no question that a bill in equity is a
proper remedy and that it may be pursued against the
defendant without joining either his superior officers or
the United States. Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S.416,
431. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S.605, 619, 620.
As the bill was dismissed upon the merits it is not necessary to say more upon this preliminary question. Also
the direct appeal to this Court is proper as the State complains of an infringement of its right in the highways and
of its other reserved powers and the case as made involves
the construction of the Constitution of the United States.
The park was created by the Act of January 26, 1915,
c. 19; 38 Stat. 798. By ยง 2 the Act is not to "affect any
valid existing claim, location, or entry under the land laws
of the United States, whether for homestead, mineral,
right of way, or any other purpose whatsoever," and by
ยง 3 "no lands located within the park boundaries now
held in private, municipal, or State ownership shall be
affected by or subject to the provisions of the Act." By
ยง 4 the park is put under the executive control of the
Secretary of the Interior and it is made his duty to make
such reasonable regulations, not inconsistent with the
laws of the United States, as he deems proper for the
management of the same, such "regulations being pri-

COLORADO v. TOLL.
228

Opinion of the Court.

marily aimed at the freest use of the said park for recreation purposes by the public and for the preservation of
the natural conditions and scenic beauties thereof ...
The regulations governing the park shall include provisions for the use of automobiles therein." There is no
attempt to give exclusive jurisdiction to the United
States, but on the contrary the rights of the State over
the roads are left unaffected in terms. Apart from those
terms the State denies the power of Congress to curtail
its jurisdiction or rights without an act of cession from
it and an acceptance by the national government. Fort
Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525. The
statute establishing the park would not be construed to
attempt such a result. Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston R. R. Co. v. 'United States, 92 U. S. 733. As the
defendant is undertaking to assert exclusive control and
to establish a monopoly in a matter as to which, if the
allegations of the bill are maintained, the State has not
surrendered its legislative power, a cause of action is disclosed if we do not look beyond the bill, and it was
wrongly dismissed. The cases cited for the defendant do
not warrant any such extension of the power of the
United States over land within a State. Utah Power &
Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 404. McKelvey v. United States, 260 U. S.353, 359. See Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S.343.
It is said, although it does not appear in the record,
that the decision below was based upon Robbins v.
United States, 284 Fed. 39, in which these regulations
were held to be justified by a cession from the State. But
the alleged cession is not in this record and the State
denies it in the bill. In its argument it maintains that
the Acts relied upon by the superintendent do not have
the scope attributed to them and asserts that if they had
purported to go so far they would have been without
authority. The State is entitled to try the question and

