NEW YORK CENTRAL v. CHISHOLM.
23

Counsel for Parties.

In the absence of a clear and distinct enunciation of

such purpose we cannot conclude that Congress intended
to invade the field of admiralty jurisdiction and materially

alter long recognized rights and established modes of
procedure.
The first question must be answered in the
Negative.
NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CHISHOLM, ADMINISTRATOR.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 306. Argued March 19, 20, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. The right of action given by the Employers' Liability Act is
based wholly on tort. P. 31.
2. Legislation is presumptively territorial, and, in the case of this
statute, an intention to give it extraterritorial effect is neither disclosed in its words nor inferable from circumstances. P. 31.
3. An employee of an American railroad company was fatally injured
while operating on its line in Canada, and his administrator
brought an action in this country for damages under the Liability
Act, alleging negligence. The plaintiff and the decedent, like the
carrier, were citizens of the United States. Held, upon a construction of the act, and without considering the power of Congress to
impcse civil liability on citizens of the United States for torts
committed in alien territory, that the action would not lie.
QUESTION certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
arising on review of a judgment for damages recovered
in the District Court by the administrator of a deceased
railway employee, in an action under the Employers'

Liability Act.
Mr. Lowell A. Mayberry, for the New York Central
Railroad.

Mr. William H. Lewis, with whom Mr. William F.
Kane and Mr. Charles H. Houston were on the brief,
for Chisholm.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On November 9, 1920, MeTier, a citizen of the United
States, while employed on a passenger train operated by
the New York Central Railroad Company between Malone, N. Y., and Montreal, Canada, suffered fatal injuries at a point thirty miles north of the international
line. His administrator, also a citizen of the United
States, claiming damages under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of April 22, 1908, (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65) as
amended April 5, 1910, (c. 143, 36 Star: 291), brought
an action in the United States District Court for Massachusetts and recovered a judgment for three thousand
dollars. This went for review to the court beloW, and it
has asked instruction on the question which follows.
Judicial Code, Sec. 239.
"Has the administrator of an employee of a common
carrier, who receives an injury in a foreign country resulting in his death-the employee and the common carrier
being at the time engaged in- foreign commerce and both
citizens of the United States-a right of action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, or must he rely on the
law or statute of tthe foreign country where the alleged
act of negligence occurred or the cause of action arose?"
The Liability Act declares that every common carrier
by railroad while engaging in interstate or foreign commerce shall be liable to any of its employees, or, in the
case of his death, to his personal representative for the
benefit of his widow and children, if any; if none, then
for his parents; if none, then for his next of kin dependent
upon him, for all damages which may result from the
negligence of any of its officers, agents, or employees, or
by reason of any defect or insufficiency due to its negligence in its cars, engines, appliances, maclinery, track,
roadbed, ways or works;

NEW YORK CENTRAL v. CHISHOLM.
29

Opinion of the Court.

And Section 6 provides--" Under this Act an action
may be brought in a circuit court of the United States,
in the district of the residence of th defendant, or in
which the cause of action arose, or in which the defendant
shall be doing business at the time of commencing such
action. The jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States under this Act shall be concurrent with that of
the courts of the several States, and no case arising under
this Act and brought in any State court of competent
jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the United
States."
It is unnecessary for us to consider the power of Congress to impose civil liability upon citizens of the United
States for torts committed within the territory of another
nation. The present case presents nothing beyond a
question of construction.
The statute under consideration lacks the essential
characteristics of those, now very common, which provide for compensation to employees injured in the line of
duty irrespective of the master's fault. It only undertakes to impose liability for negligence which must be
shown by proof (Southern Ry. v. Gray, 241 U. S. 333,
339; New York Central R. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147,
150) and demands under it are based wholly upon tort.
It contains no words which definitely disclose an intention to give it extraterritorial effect, nor do the circumstances require an inference of such purpose. United
States v. Bowman, 260 U. S. 94, 98. "Legislation is presumptively territorial and confined to limits over which
the law-making power has jurisdiction." Sandberg v.
McDonald, 248 U. S. 185, 195.
"The general and' almost universal rule is that the
character of an act as lawful or unlawful must .be determined wholly by the law of the country where the act is
done. . . . For another jurisdiction, if it should happen to lay hold of the actor, to treat him according to its

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

own notions rather than those of the placewhere he did
the acts, not only would be unjust, but would be an interference with the authority of another sovereign, contrary
to the comity of nations, which the other state concerned
justly might resent. . .
The foregoing considerations would lead in case of doubt to a construction of any
statute as intended to be confined in its operation and
effect to the territorial limits over which the lawmaker
has general and legitimate power. 'All legislation is
primafacie territorial.'" American Banana Co. v United
Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, 356, 357.
In an action brought in a court of the United States
to enforce the liability of a Colorado corporation for injuries wrongfully inflicted upon a citizen of Texas while
within the territory of Mexico, this court said: "But
when such a liability is enforced in a jurisdiction foreign
to the place of the wrongful act, obviously that does not
mean that the act in any degree is subject to the lex Jori,
with regard to either its quality or its consequences. On
the other hand, it equally little means that the law of the
place of the act is operative outside its own territory.
The theory of the foreign suit is that although the act
complained of was subject to no law having force in the
forum, it gave rise to an obligation, an obligatio, which,
like other obligations, follows the person, and may be enforced wherever the person may be found. . . . But
as the only source of this obligation is the law of the place
of the act, it follows that that law determines not merely
the existence of the obligation, Smith v. Condry, 1 How.
28, but equally determines its extent." Slater v. I1'iexican
National R. R., 194 U. S. 120, 126.
Under the circumstances disclosed the administrator
had no right of action based upon the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. The carrier was subject only to such obligations as were imposed by the laws and statutes of the
country where the alleged act of negligence occurred; and
the administrator could not rely upon any others.

