OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

National Park Bank, 147 Ga. 96; Hass v. Bank of Commerce, 41 Neb. 754; Citizens Bank v. Giddings, 84 N. W.
(Neb.) 78; Third National Bank v. Harrison,10 Fed. 243.
And see Union Bank of Georgetown v. Laird, 2 Wheat.
390; Myers v. Kendall (La.), 76 So. 801. In any event,
the other debtor of defendant in error was not before the
court, and for that reason plaintiff was not entitled to the
relief sought. Dorr v. Shaw,.4 Johns, Ch. 17, 18.
There is no error in the record and the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

EDWARD HINES YELLOW PINE TRUSTEES v.
ANNA F. C. MARTIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI

No. 363.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Argued May 1, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. Where a construction of a state statute affecting title to real
estate has been repeatedly determined by decisions of the state
courts and thus established as a rule of property in the State,
the federal courts will follow those dec'sions without inquiring
into the justice and sufficiency of the rule as an original proposition. P. 462.
2. Petitioners claimed title to land in Mississippi under a patent
issued to a corporation under an act of the state legislature incorporating it and providing that the corporation should, within
60 days after the passage- of the act, file with the Secretary of
State a bond in a specified amount "with two or more good securities," and that, upon approval and filing of the bond, patents
should be issued, upon demand of the company, signed by the
Governor and countersigned by the Secretary of State. The State
Supreme Court having repeatedly decided that a patent so issued was void because the bond filed and approved was executed by individuals only and not by the corporation and was
therefore not a compliance with the statute, held that the rule
thus established should be followed in a case arising in the federal court. P. 457.
296 Fed. 442, affirmed.

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. MARTIN.
458

459

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIor APi to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree rendered by the District Court
for the respondents in consolidated suits to quiet title
brought by the petitioners.
Mr. T. J. Wills, with whom Mr. T. W. Davis was on
the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Fleet C. Hathorn,with whom Messrs. William H.
Watkins and Clayton D. Potter were on the briefs, for
respondents.
Mr. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioners, complainants below, filed four bills in
equity in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi against four different defendants to remove cloud on title of four plots of land separately described in the several bills. The suits thus
brought were consolidated and tried by the District Court
as one, upon an agreed statement of facts and documentary evidence, and a decree was rendered adjudging that
the title to the lands in question was in defendants and
denying the prayer of the bill. On appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the decree was affirmed. 296 Fed. 442.
The lands in question were acquired by the State of
Mississippi from the United States under Act of Congress
approved September 28, 1850. Petitioners' title depends
upon the validity of a patent issued June 27, 1871, by the
State of Mississippi to the Pearl River Improvement &
Navigation Company, a corporation from which petitioners derived their title by mesne conveyances. The title
set up by the defendants was acquired by mesne conveyances under a second patent describing the same lands,
issued by the State of Mississippi to Mitchell, December
7, 1883. The Mississippi Legislature, by Act approved
April 8, 1871, incorporated the Pearl River Improvement
& Navigation Company and provided that that company

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

should "within sixty days after the passage of this Act,
file in the office of the Secretary of State a bond in the
sum of $50,000, with two or more good securities," and
that upon the approval and filing of the bond, "the said
Secretary of State shall from time to time as demanded
by said company make out a patent or patents which shall
be signed by the Governor and countersigned by the Secretary of State, which patents shall vest the fee simple
in said lands in this company." Within sixty days, the
company filed a bond, executed by four individuals only,
in the sum specified, and conditioned on the performance
by the company of all duties imposed on it by the Act of
April 8, 1871. The bond was approved by the Governor,
and the patent of June 27, 1871, describing the lands
referred to in that statute, including the lands involved
in this litigation, was issued, signed by the Governor and
countersigned by the Secretary of State.
The validity of petitioner's title depends upon the determination of the question whether the bond filed by the
company was a compliance with the provisions of the
statute so as to render operative the patent issued by the
officials of the State, to the conapany as a valid conveyance of the fee of the lands in question. Whether or not
the bond was a compliance with the statute and the legal
effect of the patent so far as other lands embraced within
its description are concerned, are points which have been
several times passed upon by the state courts of Mississippi and, once before the present litigation, were considered by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit.
In Hardy v. Hartman,65 Miss. 504 (1888), which was
an action of ejectment, the court, although referring to
the fact that -it
did not appear from the record that any
patent signed by the Governor and countersigned by the
Secretary of State was ever issued to the company for the
land in question, nevertheless rested its decision on its

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. MARTIN.
458

461

Opinion of the Court.

holding that the Act of April 8, 1871, required, as a condition precedent to the validity of any patent issued pursuant to it, that the company should file in the office
of the Secretary of State its own bond in the amount
specified; that by filing a bond executed by individuals
it had not complied with the condition and the patent was
accordingly void.
In Southern Pine Co. v. Hall, 105 Fed. 84, decided in
1900, suit was brought as in the present case, to quiet
the title of a plaintiff claiming under the company. In
that case the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held that the true meaning of the statute, confirmed
by the contemporary construction of it on the part of the
Governor and the Secretary of State by their action in
issuing the patent, was that the company should file a
bond in the specified amount insuring an indemnity to
the State in that amount. Having complied with the requirements of the statute by filing the approved bond of
four solvent individuals, residents of the State, the patent
issued to the company by the State of Mississippi was
held to be valid and to pass a fee to the patentee.
In Becker v. Columbia Bank, 112 Miss. 819, decided in
1917, which was also a suit to quiet title of lands claimed
under the patent of 1871, the Supreme Court of Mississippi reaffirmed the principle of its decision in Hardy v.
Hartman, supra, saying that that "decision established a
rule of property which should not now be disturbed" and
that the failure to comply with the requirements of the
statute as interpreted in Hardy v. Hartman, supra, rendered the purported patent to the company void and that
the patentee took no title under it.
In Edward Hines Yellow Pine Trustees v. State ex rel.
Moore (1924), 134 Miss. 533, the Supreme Court of Mississippi again affirmed and adopted the view laid down
in Hardy v. Hartman,supra, saying at p. 534:
"We are not here concerned with the correctness of the
decision in Hardy v. Hartman, supra, and the rule there

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S

applied, whether correct or not, to titles derived through
patents issued to the Pearl River Improvement & Navigation Company has become a rule of property and will
not now be departed from."
The validity of titles derived under the same patent to
the company appears to have been upheld in the case
of Hines et al., Trustees v. Martin by the Supreme Court
of Mississippi, decided without opinion February 4, 1924.
99 So. Rep. 825.
In all these cases the question ruled upon was whether
the bond filed by the company complied with the requirements of the statute and whether the filing of a bond
satisfying those requirements was a condition precedent.
to the execution of the patent and the vesting of title
in the patentee. An answer to these questions involved
an interpretation of the state statute and the application
of it, as interpreted, as a rule of property determinative
of rights in titles to land within the State. Both the
meaning of statutes of a State and the rules of the unwritten law of a State affecting property within the State
are peculiarly questions of local law to be ascertained and
established by the state courts. For that reason federal
courts ordinarily hold themselves bound by the interpretation of state statutes by the state courts. Walker v.
State Harbor Commissioners, 17 Wall. 648; Barrett v.
Holmes, 102 U. S.651; Greekie v. Kirby Carpenter Co.,
106 U. S. 379, 385; McArthur v. Scott, 113 U. S. 340;
Schley v. Pullman Car Co., 120 U. S. 575, 580; Bucher v.
CheshireRailroad Co., 125 U. S.555; Ridings v. Johnson,
128 U. S. 212, 224; Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573;
Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647; Balkam v. Woodstock
Iron Co., 154 U. S.177; American Land Co. v. Zeiss, 219
U. S. 47; Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Accident
Commission, 255 U. S. 445; North Laramie Land Co. v.
Hoff nza, ante, p. 276; and follow rules of property declared by state courts; Jackson ex dem St. John v. Chew,

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. MARTIN.
458

463

Opinion of the Court.

12 Wheat. 153; Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427;
Williams v. Kirtland, 13 Wall. 306; League v. Egery, 24
How. 264; Smith Purifier v. McGroarty, 136 U. S. 237;
Warburtonv. White, 176 U. S,484.
When questions affected by the interpretation of a state
statute or a local rule of property, arise in a federal court,
that court has the same authority and duty to decide them
as it has to decide any other questions which arise in a
cause, and where state decisions are in conflict or do not
clearly establish what the local law is, the federal court
may exercise an independent judgment and determine the
law of the case. See Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595, 598;
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Barber v. Pittsburgh,
etc., Railway, 166 U. S. 83, 99; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal
Company, 215 U. S. 349. This Court has refused to follow a rule established only by single state decision, rendered after the rights involved in the case in the federal
court accrued, Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., supra, or a
single decision when not satisfied that it is conclusive evidence of the state law. Barber v. Pittsburgh,etc., Railway
Co., 166 U. S. 83, 99. In Burgess v. Seligman, supra, this
Court refused to follow decisions of the state court conflicting with a previous decision of the United States Circuit Court, in that case, with respect to the interpretation of a state statute, fixing the liability of stockholders
of a corporation organized under the laws of the State as
applied to a stockholder who was a non-resident of
the State and who acquired his interest in the stock outside of the State. But where the rule is one affecting
title to real estate within the State and has been repeatedly determined by decisions of state courts so that it is
established as the law of the State, there has been no
departure from the rule that the federal courts will follow the decisions of the state courts. Jackson ex dem St.
John v. Chew, supra; Green v. Neal, 6 Pet., 291; Suydam

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

v. Williamson, 24 How., 427; Walker v. The State Harbor
Commission, 17 Wall. 648; Barrett v. Holmes, 102 U. S.
651. And this is the rule even though the state rule is
not approved. Walker v. The State HarborCommissioner,
supra; Bucher v. Cheshire Railway Co., 125 U. S. 555;
Balkam v. Woodstock Iron Co., 154 U. S. 177. To avoid
the uncertainty and injustice which result from "the discordant element of a substantial right and which is protected in one set of courts and denied in the other, with
no superior to decide which is right" (Brine v. Insurance
Company, 96 U. S. 627), this Court has not hesitated,
when there has been a conflict of decision between it and
the state courts affecting a rule of property within the
State, to overrule its own decisions and to follow the state
decisions, once it has become evident that they have established a "rule of property" as the settled law of the
State. Green v. Lessee of Neal, 6 Pet. 291; Suydam v.
Williamson, supra; Fairfield v. County of Gallatin, 100
U. S. 47; Roberts v. Lewis, 153 U. S 367, 376. And see
Bauserman v. Blunt, supra, overruling a decision of the
Circuit Court antedating a conflicting decision of the
state court. We are, therefore, constrained in the present case to accept the view of the state courts as announced by them without inquiring, as an original proposition, into the justice and sufficiency of the rule which
we follow.
In the argument before this Court, petitioners relied
upon the effect of c. 118 of the Laws of Mississippi of
1873 as validating his title. This was a private act of
the legislature of Mississippi which relieved the Pearl
River Improvement & Navigation Company from some of
its obligations under the Act of April 7, 1871, upon certain payments to be made by it to the state treasury, and
provided that "all acts, deeds and proceedings whatever of
the Pearl River Improvement & Navigation Company be
and the same are hereby legalized, ratified and confirmed."

EDWARD HINES TRUSTEES v. MARTIN.
458

465

Opinion of the Court.

This appears to be the first occasion in the course of
this litigation gn which-the existence of this statute and
the claim of right under it by the petitioners, have been
brought to the attention of the court, although it appears to have been before the state court, but not commented on, in Becker v. Columbia Bank, supra and Hines
Yellow Pine Trustee v. Martin, supra. It is not referred
to in the record here. By the agreed statement of facts
the Act of April 8, 1871, and the patent issued to the
Company are the only suggested source of title in the
petitioners. No reference is made to the Act of 1873 in
the assignments of error. The record gives no information
as to the existing situation at the time it was passed; as
to what lands had been conveyed by the Company or
what lands retained. We are left uninformed as to
whether the Company made the payments stipulated for
in the statute. This Court is a court of review and it will
not consider questions not raised or disclosed by the record
brought to it for a review and which were not considered
by the courts below. McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S.
268, 283; Bass, etc., Ltd. v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S.
271, 285. And see Davis v. Currie, 266 U. S. 182 and
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Woolridge, ante
p. 234.
In these circumstances, the petitioners can not be heard
to claim anything in these cases under the Act of 1873,
and beyond this, we decide nothing in respect to it.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

