REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
315

325

Syllabus.

possibility of sustaining the license provisions if those
relating to resale prices were invalid.
Counsel for plaintiff in error now insists that the two
provisions are inseparable; that those which undertake to
establish resale prices are clearly invalid; and, onsequently, the whole Act must fall. On the contrary, counsel for the people maintain that the power of the State
to require such licenses is clear and that we need not determine the validity of the price restrictions.
It is not and, we think, it cannot seriously be urged
that the State lacked power to require licenses of those
engaging in the business of reselling theatre tickets. The
conviction and sentence were for failure to observe that
requirement. In the absence of an authoritative announcement of another view by some court of the State
we shall hold this provision severable and valid. Brazee
v. Michigan, 241 U. S. 340. The statute itself declares
(ยง 174): "In case it be judicially determined that any
section of this article is unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such determination shall not affect the validity or
effect of the remaining provisions of the article." If ยง 172,
which restricts resale prices were eliminated, a workable
plan would still remain. See Dorchy v. Kansas, 264
U. S. 286.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
REAL SILK HOSIERY MILLS v. CITY OF
PORTLAND ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 417. Argued April 27, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.
1. A municipal ordinance requiring that every person who gocs from
place to place taking orders for goods for future delivery and
receives payment or any deposit of money in advance shall secure

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

268 U. S.

a license by paying a fee and filing a bond conditioned to make
final delivery of ordered goods, held an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce as applied to the solicitors of a
corporation engaged in manufacturing goods in another State and
selling them direct to consumers on orders taken by the solicitors
and sent to the home office of the corporation, the customers
making advance deposits which were retained by the solicitors as
their sole compensation and were credited to the customers on
account of their purchases. P. 335.
2. An expressed purpose to prevent possible frauds is not enough to
justify legislation which really interferes with the free flow of
legitimate interstate commerce. P. 336.
297 Fed. 897, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit brought by the appellant corporation to
enjoin the enforcement of a city ordinance requiring its
salesmen to take out licenses and file bonds for security
of customers.
Mr. John G. Milburn, with whom Messrs. Joseph W.
Welsh, Ralph Bamberger and John M. Gearin were on
the brief, for appellant.
Decisions of this Court have reduced within very narrow limits the questions raised by the record in this case.
Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71;
Brown v." Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444; Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489, 497, 498; Texas
Transport Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150, 152; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 302.
The appellant's business which is affected by the ordinance is interstate commerce. The business consists of
the obtaining of orders through representatives or solicitors in Portland from individual purchasers and the fulfillment of those orders, when received in Indianapolis,
by shipment from that place direct to the purchasers in
Portland. The transaction is simply a sale and delivery in one State of goods manufactured in another State

REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
325

Argument for Appellant.

upon an order previously given and transmitted to the
State in which the goods are manufactured, and is in all
respects interstate commerce. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing
Dist., supra;Brennanv. Titusville, supra. It is clear that
the interstate character of the transaction as a whole cannot be affected by the manner in which the order may be
obtained or by the terms of payment for the goods ordered; and it is immaterial whether they are paid for
wholly or partly in advance or on final delivery insofar
as the character of the transactioh is concerned. In
either case the transaction is interstate commerce and
the representative of the appellant obta'ning the order
is engaged in interstate commerce.
The ordinance is a direct burden on interstate commerce and therefore invalid. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing
Dist., supra; Brennan v. Titusville, supra; Stockard v.
Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187
U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Stewart v. Michigan,
232 U. S. 665; Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16;
Texas Transport Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150;
Bowman v. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co., 125 U. S.
465; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141; Sioux
Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197. The ordinance in
this case concerns only solicitors who collect any portion
of the purchase price payable in advance. But the fact
that a solicitor collects a portion of the purchase price in
advance at the time an order is given in accordance with
the terms of the order does not change his status or
function with respect to the interstate sale in connection
with which his service has been rendered, or the interstate character of the sale. Whether an ordinance is a
direct or incidental burden on interstate sales is not
determinable by how the purchase price is payable.
Treating the ordinance as an attempted exercise of the
police power, it is not only void as imposing a direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

268 U. S.

burden on interstate commerce, but because it is unreasonable, arbitrary and unnecessarily burdensome.
Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14, 31. The
direct and effective way to attack and suppress such
frauds as the ordinance professes to be aimed at, is by
criminal prosecutions. This Court is not bound by *the
recitals in the ordinance or its declared purpose. Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Dobbins v. City of Los Angeles,
195 U. S. 223; La Coste v. Dept. of Conservation, 263
U. S. 545. If there be any real necessity for the regulation of solicitors selling. the goods of a non-resident principal it is for Congress, and not for the various States or
municipalities, to pass appropriate laws for such regulation. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing Dist., supra; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, supra; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co.,
supra; Bowman v. Chicago & North Western Railway
Co., 125 U. S. 465; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196
U. S. 133; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
The theory of the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals as to. the local character of the service of the
appellant's solicitors is untenable. This is a clear misconception of the real transaction. The solicitors are
employed by the appellant. Their function is to solicit
orders on behalf of the appellant, and when obtained to
reduce them to writing, sign them and receive the deposit
on behalf of the appellant. The orders are transmitted
to the appellant through a district sales manager's office
located in the City of Portland. This is the indispensable initial step in the transaction. The total purchase
price is stated in the formal order. It is the sum which
the purchaser is obligated to pay to the appellant for the
goods. A payment of a part of the purchase price is
required in advance and is paid to the solicitor, not as
money due from the purchaser to the solicitor, but as
part of the purchase price of the goods. The payment
required is retained by the solicitor under his arrange-

REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
325

Argument for Appellant.

ment with the appellant as compensation for his service
rendered to the appellant. That he retains it instead of
remitting it to his principal does not affect the purchaser.
The solicitor's part in the sale is concluded when he receives the order and advance payment and sends the
order to the district sales manager just as any travelling
salesman's function in connection with a sale is performed when he has obtained an order and forwarded it
to his principal. There is obviously no basis in the
actual facts for the statements in the ,opinion of the
court below that the solicitor "receives nothing from
the plaintiff ", and "that the plaintiff has no interest in
the advance payment made by the purchaser to the
solicitor ", or for the description of the solicitor as " independent ", and. his business ,as "independent and self
sustaining "; or for severing the solicitor's service from
each transaction of sale as an entirety and treating it as
a separate and independent transaction between the purchaser and the solicitor.
The advance payment is necessary as an inducement
to the purchaser to take the goods when delivered and
pay the balance of the purchase price; and, in case of
their rejection by the purchaser owing to a change of
mind or any similar cause, to recoup the appellant for the
selection and packing of the goods and the expense of forwarding them and having them returned. Experience has
shown that it materially tends'to hold the purchaser to
his order. For this reason the advance payment is indispensable.
Facing the problem of the payment of the compensation of thousands of solicitors all over the country and
an advance payment being indispensable, the natural solution of it was to fix the payment at a'sum equivklent
to a workable compensation to the solicitor in connection
with each order and allow him to retain it, thereby saving
an open account with each solicitor and remittances from

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

268 U. S.

him and to him. It is a natural and legitimate method of
business and its operation in no way converts the purely
interstate sales of the business into a combination of an
interstate element, consisting of the receipt of the order,
the transmission of the goods by mail C. 0. D. as to the
balance of the purchase price, and their delivery to the
purchaser on payment of such balance, and of an intrastate element consisting of the obtaining of the order by
the solicitor, the forwarding of it to the district manager's
office for transmission to the mills, and his retention of
the advance payment on the purchase price of the goods
collected by him. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Knight, 192
U. S. 21; Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S. 517; Hall v. GeigerJones Company, 242 U. S. 539; Plumley v. Massachusetts,
155 U. S. 461, distinguished. To single out solicitors who
collect any portion of the purchase price in advance of
final delivery and subject them to discriminating and hostile legislation is a violation of the equality clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. Frank S. Grant, with whom Mr. Robert A. Imlay
was on the brief, for appellees.
The police power, from its very nature, is incapable
of exact definition or limitation. It reaches out generally to control everything which affects the health, peace,
safety and morals of the people, and as new conditions
arise, and as public opinion creates new standards of
valuation, it will reach out in a never ending procession of
legislative enactments to cope with the situation. It is
inevitable that contention will arise as to the power of
the States and the power of the national Government.
Hence, each individual case must, to a large extent, be
decided upon its own merits. Welton v. Missouri, 91
U. S. 275. The State may by appropriate legislation
protect local interests. Such legislation is valid under
the Commerce Clause notwithstanding that interstate

REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
325

Argument for Appellees.

commerce may to some extent be affected.

Gibbons v.

Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713;
Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678; Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Walling
v. Mfichigan, 116 U. S. 446; Philadelphiaetc., S. S. Co. v.
Penna., 122 U. S. 326; In Re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545;
Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Hebe Co. v. Calvert,
246 Fed. 711; Missouri ex rel. Barrett v. Kansas National
Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298; State v. Leary, 125 Atl. (R. I.)
353.
On various phases of legislation which have been
declared within the reserved powers of States, and not a
regulation of interstate commerce, see especially International Textbook Co. v. District of Columbia, 35 App.
D. C. 307; Chicago R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 219
U. S. 453; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Nashville C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; United
States v. Hart, Pet. C. C. 390; New Mex. ex rel. v.
Denver & R. G. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38; Compagnie Francaise, Etc. v. LouisianaState Board, 186 U. S. 380; Hebe
Co. v. Calvert, supra; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.
610; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; N. Y., N. H. &
H. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Sherlock v. Ailing,
93 U. S. 99; Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685; Lakeshore & M. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Texas
Transport & T. Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150; New
York ex rel. Pa. Ry. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21.
The situation presented by the case at bar is not dissimilar in principle to those cases where persons engaged
in interstate transportation are required by the provisions
of state statutes to be examined and licensed. Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465. A presumption should be indulged in that a statute was enacted in good faith. The
declared purpose of the act is to be accepted as true unless
incompatible with its meaning and effect. Flint v. StoneTracey Co., 220 U. S. 107. It will be contended, that

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

268 U. S.

the real purpose of the ordinance is to discriminate against
non-resident manufacturers in favor of local business.
There is nothing in the language to justify such a contention, nor is there any allegation in the bill upon which to
base such a claim. It is not alleged or claimed that the
ordinance is administered with an unequal hand, so as
practically to make discriminations against non-resident
manufacturers. See Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
The declared purpose is to prevent the perpetration of
fraud upon the citizens of Portland by fraudulent or irresponsible solicitors. It does not discriminate against
goods, nor interfere in any way with the free intercourse
in goods of a sister state, nor, except in an indirect and
incidental manner, with the contract for the sale of such
goods. It is aimed solely, at fraudulent practices of such
a nature that they are necessarily of a local and not of a
national character.
It would seem not only within the power of the State,
but its positive duty, to devise some method for reaching the evils of a system so freighted with opportunities for fraudulent practices. The system is enlarging in its scope from year to year. The tendency,
today, is to eliminate the middle man entirely. This may
be well enough, but the system has built up an immense
business in soliciting which is practically the only business
of that character which is unregulated and unrestricted.
For years individuals, engaged in soliciting for non-resident principals, have successfully hidden behind the provisions of the federal Constitution, and it has prevented
legislation designed to reach solicitors of local concerns because of the inequality of such a measure. It is said in
Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461: "The Constitution of the United States does not secure to anyone the
privilege of defrauding the public." Preventive measures
are of infinitely greater benefit to society than an uncertain criminal or civil process, after the damage is done.

REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
325

Argument for Appellees.

StandardHome Co. v. Davis, 217 Fed. 904; Freund, Police
Power, ยง 272, p. 260; see Crossmanv. Lurman, 192 U. S.
189; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Hall v. Geiger-Jones
Co., 242 U. S. 539; Merrick v. Halsey & Co., 242 U. S.
568; Caldwell v. Sioux Falls Stock Yards Co., 242
U. S. 559.
We conclude from these cases that, in the absence of
national legislation, a state statute, or municipal ordinance, designed to prevent fraudulent practices or fraudulent representations, is a valid exercise of the police power
of the State in the interests of the local welfare, notwithstanding that the articles affected are articles of commerce and that interstate commerce is indirectly affected
or burdened thereby. The fraud which the ordinance in
question seeks to prevent is essentially a local matter and
even though the act of soliciting may be an incident of
interstate commerce, the indirect burden placed thereon
by the ordinance does not contravene the Commerce
Clause. The provisions of the ordinance are reasonably
adaptable to accomplish the purpose intended-correction of this evil. The requirement of a bond insures the
continuance in business of persons of character and responsibility only. The ordinance should be an assistance to commerce rather than a hindrance or burden, by
eliminating the dishonest solicitor. The ordinance has
to do with conduct not directly connected with any subject of commerce. There is nothing new in the principle
that the personnel of business may be regulated on the
basis of character and conduct. Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U. S. 183; Bratton v. Chandler, 260 U. S. 110. We
have found but one case construing a statute in any
degree similar to the ordinance in question. Musco v.
United Surety Co., 196 N. Y. 459. This ordinanoe is not
distinguishable in principle from the law of Georgia which
was the subject of the decision in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The ordinance does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Merrick v. Halsey & Co., 242 U. S. 568.
Mr. David Paine filed a brief as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court.
Messrs. James W. Bayard and Ralph B. Evans filed a
brief as amici curiae, by special leave of Court..
MR. JusTiCE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant is an Illinois corporation engaged in manufacturing silk hosiery at Indianapolis, Ind., and selling it
throughout the United States to consumers only. It employs duly accredited representatives in many States who
go from house to house soliciting and accepting orders.
When a willing purchaser is found the solicitor fills out
and signs in duplicate a so-called "order blank." This
obligates appellant to make delivery of the specified goods
and, among other things, states"The mills require a deposit of $1.00 [or other specified sum] on each box listed below. Your hosiery will be
mailed you by Parcel Post c. o. d., direct from the Post
Office branch in our mills. Pay the balance to the postman. As the entire business of the Real Silk Hosiery
Mills is conducted on the Parcel Post c. o. d. basis, our
representatives cannot accept your order unless the deposit
is made. We do not accept full payment in advance. Do
not liay more than printed deposit."
One of the copies is left with the purchaser; the other is
first sent to the local sales manager and then forwarded
to the mills at Indianapolis. In response thereto the
goods are packed and shipped by Parcel Post c. o. d. direct
to the purchaser. The solicitor retains the cash deposit,
and this constitutes his entire compensation.
The appellant employs two thousand representatives
* who solicit in most of the important cities and towns

REAL SILK MILLS v. PORTLAND.
325

Opinion of the Court.

throughout the Union, and has built up a very large business--10,000,000 per annum. Twenty operate in Portland, Ore.
May 16, 1923, that City passed an ordinance which requires that every person who goes from place to place
taking orders for goods for future delivery and receives
payment or any deposit of money in advance shall secure
a license and file a bond. The license fee is $12.50 quarterly for each person on foot and $25 if he uses a vehicle.
The bond must be in the penal sum of $500 and conditioned to make final delivery of ordered goods, &c.
By a bill filed in the United States District Court for
Oregon appellant challenged the ordinance and asked that
its enforcement be restrained upon the ground, among
others, that it interferes with and burdens interstate commerce and is repugnant to Art. I, ยง 8, Federal Constitution. The trial court upheld the enactment and sustained
a motion to dismiss the bill. This was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 297 Fed. 897.
Considering former opinions of this court we cannot
doubt that the ordinance materially burdens interstate
commerce and conflicts with the Commerce Clause. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 497; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,
203 U. S. 507; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Texas
Transport Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 268
U. S. 203.
"The negotiation of sales of goods which are in another
State, for the purpose of introducing them into the State
in which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce."
Manifestly, no license fee could have been required of appellant's solicitors if they had travelled at its expense and
received their .compensation by direct remittances from it.
And we are unable to see that the burden on interstate

