SOWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK.

449

Statement of the Case.

SONWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF
DALLAS, TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 367.

Argued May 1, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. An action brought on a promissory note by a federal reserve
bank, a federal corporation, is an action "arising under the laws
of the United States," within the meaning of Jud. Code § 24,
"First" (a). P. 453.
2. A federal reserve bank is not a national bank, subject to the provisions of Jud. Code § 24, "Sixteenth." Id.
3. The Assignee Clause, Jud. Code § 24, "First" (a), which forbids the District Court to take cognizance of an action on a chose
in action by an assignee which could not have been prosecuted in
that court if no assignment had been made, applies where the
sole ground of jurisdiction is diversity of citizenship, but not where
the ground is that the action arises under the laws of the United
States. Id.
4. Failure to present a promissory note for payment at the payee
bank, where it was payable and where the maker had sufficient
funds, or to give notice of dishonor, held not a defense to an
action against the maker by the endorsee holder, in view of provision in the note waiving "protest, notice thereof and diligence
in collecting," and the Negotiable Instruments Law in Texas, giving effect to such provisions. P. 456.
5. A note made to the order of a bank in which the maker had a
deposit was endorsed by the payee to another bank as partial security for a larger indebtedness owed by the first bank to the
second. The payee bank became insolvent and the endorsee sued
the maker on the note. Held that the maker was not entitled,
merely in virtue of his equitable right of set-off as against the
payee, to have the action stayed until the endorsee had exhausted
other collateral held by it as security for the debt owed it by the
payee-at all events, not in the absence of the payee as a party.
Id.
294 Fed. 798, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment recovered in the District Court by

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in. Error.

268 U. S.

the Bank in an action against Sowell on his promissory
note.
Mr. James D. Williamson, for plaintiff in error.
The assignee clause is a limitation upon the jurisdiction
of the federal courts. Were this not so, the clause would
be meaningless and ineffective. Any national bank of
a foreign State could file suit as the assignee in the federal courts. The purpose of the clause would be defeated
and, as Justice Story says in United States v. Green, 4
Mason 427, the door opened for fraud.
As an original proposition, the Federal Reserve Bank
at Dallas had no cause of action against the defendant
Sowell; there was no suit arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. It is only by virtue of
being assignee that it comes in and says a federal question
is presented.
Kolze v. Hoadley, 200 U. S., 76, lays down the rule very
broadly that under the Act of 1888, where the suit, no
matter in what guise it shall be presented, is a suit to
recover upon a promissory note or other chose in action by
an assignee, the District Court has no jurisdiction unless
the suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover on the note if no assignment or transfer had been
made. The Court further says that the bill or other pleading must contain an averment showing the suit could have
been maintained by the assignor if no assignment had
been made. United States National Bank v. McNair,
6 Fed. 323; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S. 81. Federal
Reserve Bank v. Webster, 287 Fed. 579, is not supported
by authority. Weyman v. Wallace, 201 U. S. 230, distinguished. See Houck v. Bank of Brinkley, 242 Fed.
882; Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat., 803; Bankers Trust
Co. v. Texas Pacific Railroad,241 U. S. 295.
How can it be said that a suit on a promissory note
as against the maker is one arising under the laws and

SOWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK.
449

451

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Constitution of the United States, when Congress has
repeatedly said that the assignee of such note cannot sue
thereon unless the assignor could have maintained his
suit in the federal court? Is the language of the Act of
1915 as to jurisdiction more restrictive than the language
of the assignee proviso of the Act of 1888, which is now
a part of § 24 of the Judicial Code?
If jurisdiction exists in this case why not in favor of
any national bank of a foreign state which, as an assignee,
sues in the federal court on a note assigned to it by a
citizen of the same State as the maker? The laws of
the United States are just as much in controversy as in
this suit. The national bank is organized under the laws
of the United States. None of the provisions of its charter or its national incorporation are taken away by the
proviso of 1882 that, for jurisdictional purposes, it shall
be considered as a citizen of the state in which it is domiciled. It is still a federal corporation. See cases above
cited and Petrie v. Commercial National Bank, 142 U. S.
644; Leather Manufacturers' National Bank v. Cooper,
120 U. S. 778. In Commercial National Bank v. Simmons, 6 Fed. Cas. 226, jurisdiction was expressly conferred
under the Act of February 25, 1863, and in United States
v. Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, by the Act under which
the bank was organized.
The Federal Reserve Act, § 4, provides: "It [a federal
reserve bank] shall have the power to sue and be sued,
complain and defend in any court of law or equity." This
does not confer jurisdiction on the federal court of suits
by or against that bank, but leaves § 24 of the Judicial
Code in full force and effect as to all of its provisions;
and, for jurisdictional purposes, -it cannot invoke its federal charter in violation of the assignee clause.
Under the Negotiable Instruments Law, where a note
is payable at a bank, it is the duty of the holder to present
it at the bank in due course of business for payment.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

26S U. S.

Where the holder of a negotiable note, payable at a bank
which is, under the Negotiable Instruments Act, authorized to charge the note to the account of the maker, knows
of the impairment of the financial condition of such bank,
the holder is negligent in failing to notify the maker that
his note is not paid, or to present the note to the maker
for payment. If the maker be damaged on account of
the negligence, he is relieved from liability.
Mr. Ethan B. Stroud, Jr., with whom Messrs. Charles
C. Huff and Joseph Manson McCormick were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Writ of error to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit to review its judgment, affirming
a judgment for the plaintiff below of the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Texas,
in an action upon a promissory note.
Plaintiff in error, defendant below, a resident of Texas,
executed his promissory note payable to the order of a
national bank domiciled in Texas. The note was endorsed, before maturity, to defendant in error, also domiciled in Texas, as collateral security for an indebtedness
owing by endorser to defendant in error, in excess of the
amount of the note. Three principal grounds of error
are assigned: (1) That the District Court was without
jurisdiction as the plaintiff below was an endorsee of the
note sued upon and as its endorser could no-t have brought
suit upon the note against the maker in that court (Judicial Code, § 24, Subdivision First (c)); (2) that defendant in error as holder of the note failed to present the
note for payment at the endorser bank where it was payable and where the maker had funds on deposit sufficient to pay it; (3) that the District Court refused to
stay the suit until such time as the defendant should ex-

SOWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK.
449

453

Opinion of the Court.

haust other collateral held by it as security for the indebtedness of the endorser.
Suit being brought by a federal reserve bank, incorporated under the laws of the United States, it is a suit
arising under the laws of the United States (Judicial Code,
§ 24, First (a)). American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 256 U. S. 350. And as the defendant in error is not a national bank subject to the provisions of the Judicial Code, § 24, Subdivision Sixteenth,
the District Court had jurisdiction of the suit unless jurisdiction is excluded by the so-called "Assignee Clause ",
Judicial Code, § 24, Subdivision First (c), which reads as
follows:
"No District Court shall have cognizance of any suit
(except upon foreign bills of exchange) to recover upon
any promissory note or other chose in action in f.avor of
any assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in
such court to recover upon said note or other chose in
action if no assignment had been made, . . ."
It is unquestioned that where the sole ground of jurisdiction is diversity of citizenship, such jurisdiction is excluded by the operation of this clause, and the question
now presented is whether the clause has a like effect where
the sole ground of jurisdiction is that the suit arises under
the laws of the United States.
No inference as to the meaning of the assignee clause
can be drawn from its relative position in § 24, and that of
the clause giving jurisdiction of suits arising under the
laws of the United States. Judicial Code, § 295.
The history of the clause, however, shows clearly that
its purpose and effect, at the time of its enactment, were
to prevent the conferring of jurisdiction on the federal
courts, on grounds of diversity of citizenship, by assignment, in cases where it would not otherwise exist, and

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

not to deprive the federal courts of jurisdiction where it
was conferred on grounds other than diversity of citizenship.
The assignee clause was incorporated in the Judiciary
Act of 1789, § 11, in substantially its present form. Under
that Act, jurisdiction could be invoked only by the United
States, aliens, and in cases of diversity of citizenship.
There was, therefore, no scope for its application in cases
where jurisdiction depended upon the subject matter of
the suit. Jurisdiction in cases arising under the laws of
the United States (except for a brief period under the Act
of February 13, 1801, 2 Stat. 92, 93) was not conferred
until the Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 3, 470. Before
that date jurisdiction over suits brought by federal corporations was denied unless their charters expressly authorized them to sue in the federal courts. Where such
authority was granted, the assignee clause was held to be
inapplicable and not to defeat the jurisdiction. Commercial National Bank v. Simmons, 6 Fed. Cas. 226, No.
3,062; Bank of United States v. PlantersBank of Georgia,
9 Wheat. 904. In that case, the court, in holding that
the Bank of the United States might bring suit on a note
endorsed to it by a citizen of the same State as that of
the defendant maker of the note, pointed out that the
purpose of the assignee clause was to prevent extending
the jurisdiction of the court by the mere process of assignment and not to limit a jurisdiction conferred on
other grounds. The Court said, at page 909:
"It was apprehended that bonds and notes, given in the
usual course of business, by citizens of the same State,
to each other, might be assigned to the citizens of another
State, and thus render the maker liable to a suit in the
federal Courts. To remove this inconvenience, the act
which gives jurisdiction to the Courts of the Union over
suits brought in by citizens of one State against the citizens
of another, restrains that jurisdiction, where the suit is

SOWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK.
449

455

Opinion of the Court.

brought by an assignee to cases where the suit might have
been sustained, had no assignment been made. But the
bank does not sue in virtue of any right conferred by the
Judiciary Act, but in virtue of the right conferred by its
charter. It does not sue, because the defendant is a citizen
of a different State from any of its members, but beca:use
its charter confers upon it the right of suing its debtors in
a Circuit Court of the United States."
Mr. Justice Story applied the same rule in the case of a
claim assigned to the United States, holding that the assignee clause was not applicable, (United States v. Green,
4 Mason 426,) resting his decision both on the meaning
and effect of the assignee clause, and on the effect of the
Act of 1815, Chap. 253, conferring general jurisdiction on
the federal courts over suits brought by the United States.
By the Act of 1875, 18 Stat. 336, jurisdiction of the
federal courts was extended generally to all suits arising
under the laws of the United States. Where such is the
ground of jurisdiction, the assignee clause appears to us
to be inapplicable, just as it had been held to be in cases
in which the like jurisdiction was conferred by special corporate charter provisions or where jurisdiction was given
generally over suits brought by the United States.
The precise question seems not to have been expressly
passed upon by this Court since the Act of 1875. It, however, was necessarily involved in Wyman v. Wallace, 201
U. S.230, in which the assignee clause would have defeated
the jurisdiction attaching because of diversity of citizenship, but in which the jurisdiction was, nevertheless, upheld because the case was one arising under a law of the
United States.
We think that a reasonable interpretation of the language of the clause in the light of its history, its obvious
purpose at the time of its enactment, and judicial declarations as to its meaning and effect, and the fact that the
provision for jurisdiction generally over suits arising under

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

the laws of the United States was enacted later, and without any exceptions, lead to the conclusion that it should be
so applied as not to limit jurisdiction arising from the
nature of the subject matter of the suit, as is the case in
suits brought by or against corporations organized under
the laws of the United States. American Bank and Trust
Co. v. FederalReserve Bank, supra,p. 356. We hold that
the District Court had jurisdiction over the cause.
The note sued on contained a provision that the maker
waived "protest, notice thereof and diligence in collecting." The Negotiable Instruments Law in force in Texas
gives effect to stipulations waiving presentment, protest
or notice of dishonor, contained in the body of the instrument, and provides that they are binding on all parties
to it. (Revised Statutes, Texas, § 82, Art. 6001-a(3),
109, 110, 111.) Plaintiff in error was, therefore, bound
by his waiver and the circumstance that defendant in error
had knowledge of a deposit of the plaintiff in error with
the payee bank sufficient to meet the note at maturity,
did not, contrary to the express terms of the waiver, impose
a duty on defendant in error to present the note for payment. Defendant's rights were unimpaired by its failure
to make due presentation of the note or to give notice
of its dishonor.
The contention of plaintiff in error that suit should
have been stayed until defendant in error had exhausted
its other collateral, is not founded upon any special
equities growing out of fraud, agreement among the
parties, or suretyship, or other special relationship, giving rise to any equity in the maker of the note. The note
was held by defendant in error, together with other collateral, as security for the debt of the payee who is insolvent and indebted to plaintiff in error in an amount
exceeding the note. In such a situation there is no scope
for the marshalling of the security at the behest of the
maker of the note. The equitable doctrine of marshalling

SOWELL v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK.
449

457

Opinion of the Court.

rests upon the principle that a creditor having two funds
to satisfy his debt, may not by his application of them
to his demand, defeat another creditor, who may resort to
only one of the funds. The debtor may not ordinarily
invoke the doctrine, for by doing so he would disregard
the express provisions of his contract on which the creditor is entitled to rely. The plaintiff in error is bound to
pay his obligation according to its tenor. He cannot
deny his own contract merely because his creditor has
acquired other rights with which he may satisfy his debt
and because he wishes to avail himself of an equitable setoff against the payee of the note. Had plaintiff in error
set up any defense to the note, good as to the payee, such
as fraud, or failure of consideration, he might, under the
law of some jurisdictions, have urged such cases as McBride v. Potter, 169 Mass. 7, or Second National Bank
v. Magee, 241 S. W. (Texas) 287, or Van Winkle, etc. Co.
v. Citizens Bank, 89 Texas, 147, as a, basis for the claim
that, because of his special equities, affecting the inception of the note, the defendant in error should exonerate
him by resorting to the other collateral, if shown to be
sufficient to pay the note.
But plaintiff in error shows only the obligation of his
note, presumptively valid both in the hands of the payee
and the defendant in error, and claims that since he has
an equitable set-off good against the payee of the note, he
should be relieved of his own obligation until the collateral of the payee bank has first been applied to its satisfaction. But these circumstances, which do not in any
way affect the validity of negotiable paper as such, can
afford no foundation for equitable relief to the maker or
for depriving the creditor of the full benefit of his security
in accordance with his contract. To engraft upon the
note the equity here, asserted against an innocent holder
would be to. disregard its terms and impair its negotiability. Such authority as there is rejects it. Hamsley v.

