DUFFY v. CENTRAL R. R.
50

Syllabus.

Colburn v. Wilson, 24 Ida. 94, 104; and we see no merit
in the contention that under the state law a ratable part
of the cost of this drainage cannot be assessed by the district upon the project lands within its limits because
they are not benefited thereby. The cost of draining the
district project lands was met by a charge imposed in
part and proportionately upon the lands in the project.
outside the district. If now, when the latter need like
protection, the district lands are called upon to assume an
equivalent obligation, it requires no stretch of the realities
to see, following from such an equitable adjustment, a
benefit on the whole shared by both classes of lands alike.
But in any event, since we find that the expenditure in
question properly is chargeable to operation and maintenance, appellant is liable under the express terms of its
contract.
Decree affirmed.
DUFFY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW
JERSEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 129. Argued March 13, 16, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. Expenditures made by a corporate lessee, as required by the lease,
to create additions to the leased property and not for upkeep,
are not maintenance and operation expenses deductible from its
gross income of the tax year in which made, within the meaning of
§ 12 (a) Subd. "First," of the Revenue Act of 1916, but are
betterments under Subd. "Second" of that section,--capital investment, subject to annual allowances for exhaustion or depreciation. P. 62.
2. Neither are such payments for betterments and additions,
though made by the lessee pursuant to the lease, deductible under
§ 12 (a), Subd. "First" as "rentals or other payments" required
to be made as a condition to the continued use or possession of

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

268 U. S.

property etc., since "rental" is there used in the usual sense
implying a fixed sum, or property amounting thereto, payable at
stated times for the use of property, and '"other payments" means
payments ejusdem generis with rentals, such as taxes, insurance,
etc. P. 63.
289 Fed. 354, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming a recovery in the District Court of money
paid under protest as income tax.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for petitioner. The Solicitor General was
on the brief.
All of the disbursements made by the taxpayer upon
the premises occupied under the long-term leases are
capital expenditures, and the only deduction allowable
under the Revenue Act of 1916 is an annual deduction
for depreciation. Technically speaking, of course, it is
true that so far as the leases just mentioned are concerned the taxpayer is a lessee. But this does not mean
that the payments made were rental, within the purview of § 12 (a). Indeed the admitted facts surrounding these particular leases conclusively show that the
expenditures made upon these demised premises are capital investments and, under the express terms of the
Revenue Act of 1916, are not deductible in the year made,
the only deduction allowed being for annual depreciation. Union Pac. R. R. Co. v. United States, 99 U. S.
402; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm.
206 U. S. 441; United States v. Central Pac. R. R. Co.
138 U. S. 84; Kemper Military School v. Crutchley, 274
Fed. 125; Grand Rapids, etc., Ry. Co. v. Doyle, 245 Fed.
792; Union Hollywood Water Co. v. Carter, 238 Fed.
329; Walker v. Gulf & I. Ry. Co. 269 Fed. 885; Grant v.
Hartford,etc., R. R. Co. 93 U. S. 225; Haw. C. & S. Co. v.
Tax Assessor, 14 Haw. Rep. 601; People v. Wilson, 121
N. Y. App. Div. 376; Highland Ry. Co. v. Balderston,

DUFFY v. CENTRAL R. R.
55

Argument for Petitioner.

2 Gr. Br. Tax Cas. 485; Clayton v. Newcastle Corp. 2
Gr. Br. Tax Cas. 416.
All of the disbursements made for additions and betterments upon the properties leased from the city of New
York are capital expenditures, hence are not deductible in
the year made under § 12 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1916 from the gross income for that year, but the cost
should be spread over the term of the lease and an aliquot
part deducted annually. A disbursement was made by
the taxpayer in 1916 for the construction of a new pier,
located on property covered by a lease from the city to
the taxpayer by assignment. The improvement is of a
permanent nature. It was not an outlay for the maintenance of property. It is a capital asset from which the
taxpayer will derive the benefit of increased pier facilities,
resulting in increased revenues. Read in the light of this
construction of § 12 (a), which its language undeniably
supports, article 140 of Regulations 33 (revised) is a
reasonable regulation, affording as it does an equitable
relief to a taxpayer who, for the purpose of increasing
his business capacity, makes extensive improvements
upon leased property, by allowing a deduction for capital
expenditures upon a prorated basis, which he otherwise
would not be entitled to, unless the payment was required to be made in order to continue in possession of
the premises. Moreover, this executive construction of
§ 12 (a), as shown by the regulations, was known to
Congress when it enacted § 234 (a) of the Revenue Act
of 1918, which is almost identical with § 12 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1916, and in effect constitutes a reenactment of that section. This reenactment, therefore, is an
approval or ratification on the part of Congress of such
construction. United States v. Falk, 204 U. S. 143;
United States v. Hermanos y Compania, 209 U. S. 337;
Komada v. United States, 215 U. S. 392; National Lead
Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140.

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent.

268 U. S.

The items expended for dredging, while small in
amount, are controlled by the above principles. They
have been held to constitute capital expenditures.
Ounsworth v. Vickers, Ltd. 3 K. B. 267; Dumbarton
Harbour Board v. Cox, Scot. Cas. 162, 56 Scot. L. Reporter 122.
Mr. Charles E. Miller, for respondent.

While the word "including" may "merely specify
particularly that which belongs to the genus" it may
also be used as a word of enlargement and have the
sense of "also" and of "in addition," Montella Salt
Co. v. Utah, 221 U. S. 452, 462, 464, and it is frequently
so used by Congress. United States v. Pierce, 147 Fed.
199.
Adopting this latter sense of the word, the Act of
1916 may be read as permitting a corporation to deduct,

first, the ordinary and necessary expenses paid in maintenance and operation of its business and property, and
second, rentals or other payments required to be made
as a condition to the continued use or possession of property. And, since a tax act must be construed against
the Government and in favor of the citizen, this act
must be so construed.
This being so, it follows that the Railroad Company
is entitled to deduct the amounts involved here if they
were (1) rentals, or (2) payments required to be made
as a condition to the continued use or possession of the
property, and (3) the Railroad Company had not taken
or was not taking title to the properties involved and
had no equity in them.
The expenditures involved here were rentals, Miller v.
Gearin, 258 Fed. 225; Regulations, Commissioner Int.
Rev., 1916, Art. 140-payments required to be made as a
condition to the continued use or possession of property.
Attributing to the word condition its usual and natural

DUFFY v. CENTRAL R' R.
55

Argument for Respondent.

significance, it is evident that the statute permits the
deduction of any payments the failure to make which
would entitle the landowner to terminate the use or possession of the property. 42 Broadway Co. v. Anderson,
209 Fed. 991 (reversed by this court upon another ground,
239 U. S. 69).
The Railroad Company had not taken, or was not taking, title to the properties and had no equity in them.
The words "to which the corporation has not taken or
is not taking title, or in which it has no equity, "did
not appear either in the Corporation Tax Act of 1909 or
in the Income Tax Act of 1913. They were included in
the Revenue Act of 1916 as the result of a recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury, made after the decisions of the lower courts in 42 Broadway Co. v. Anderson, supra; Benders Federal Revenue Law, 1916, p. 64.
The purpose of the amendment proposed by the Secretary
of the Treasury was to distinguish "between the interest
due on liens and mortgages and any payment made in
the nature of rentals or charges consituting in the ordinary sense an expense of the business." See report, Secretary of the Treasury, fiscal year ending June 30, 1915,
p. 99.
The genesis of the phrase, therefore, suggests that in
using the word "equity," Congress had in mind the
equity of redemption, which is defined as the remaining
interest belonging to one who has pledged or mortgaged
his property. "Equity" means equitable ownership,
and even if it be possible to give it a broader interpretation, it is the duty of the court to construe it most
strongly against the Government. Gould v. Gould, .245
U. S. 151.
The Railroad Company is entitled to deduct the whole
of such expenditures from its gross income for the year
1916. Since the expenditures involved here are of the
kind which may be deducted, it is clear that the statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

60

Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

by express words, permits the deduction of all of such
expenditures made within the year. There is no hint in
the statute that the payments which may be deducted
are to be prorated. The words of the statute are "all
... paid within the year." Mutual Benefit Co. v.
Herold, 198 Fed. 199; United States v. Christine Oil &
Gas Co. 269 Fed. 458; Southern Pac. R. Co. v. Muenter,
260 Fed. 837. The Government seeks to support the contention that the expenditures involved here should be
prorated by the regulation of the Comnissioner of Internal Revenue. It is settled that the power to make
administrative rulings does not include the power to
legislate, United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14, and
-that such a regulation to be valid must be consistent with
the statute under which it is made. International Railroad Company v. Davidson, 257 U. S. 506, 514. See
also Maryland Casualty v. United States, 251 U. S. 342,
349 and cases cited.
MR. JUSTICF SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
During the year 1916, respondent, as lessee, was in
possession of and operating certain railroads and branches
in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The leases were for
terms of 999 years and bound respondent to maintain and
keep the leased property in good order and repair and
fit for efficient use. Each provided that in the event of a
default in that respect the lease might be terminated by
the lessor. At the same time, respondent had leases of
certain piers from the City of New York for various terms
with the privilege of renewal, not to exceed in any case
30 years in all. One such lease required respondent to
acquire and pay for the interests of private owners in an
old pier and to construct a new one in its place. It provided that, if the cost should be less than $2,750,000, respondent was to pay in addition to rent 5 % on the

DUFFY v. CENTRAL R. Rt.
55

Opinion of the Court.

difference between that amount and the actual cost; but
if the cost should be more than $2,750,000 respondent was
to be credited on its annual rental with 5 % on such
difference for 39 years, in which event the term was to be
extended under a formula not necessary to be repeated.
Respondent agreed to maintain the premises and structures thereon, or to be erected thereon, in good and efficient repair. The city was authorized to terminate the
lease at any time after 10 years, but in such case agreed
to pay to respondent such reasonable sum as might be
fixed by arbitration. Other leases required respondent to
do such dredging as the commissioner of docks considered
necessary, and still others, to build extensions to the
leased piers. All the leases provided that the city could
terminate them if respondent failed to pay rent or failed
otherwise to observe the covenants or agreements.
In the year 1916, respondent expended, under the railroad leases, for additions and betterments and, under the
pier leases, for the several purposes therein set forth, the
aggregate sum of $1,659,924.33, of which $1,525,308.72
was for the acquisition of the private rights in the old pier
and the construction of the new one.
In submitting its income tax return for that year, respondent sought to deduct these various expenditures
from its gross income under § 12 (a) of the Revenue Act
of 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 767-769, which'provides, in
the case of a corporation, that annual net income shall be
ascertained by deducting from the gross amount thereof,
among other things,"First. All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid
within the year in the maintenance and operation of its
business and properties, including rentals or other payments required to be made as a condition to the continued
use or possession of property to which the corporation has
not taken or is not taking title, or in which it has no
equity."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

The collector refused to allow the deductions, and respondent, under protest, paid the amount of the increased
assessment due to such refusal, and brought this action to
recover it. Its contention is that the expenditures were
"rentals or other payments" within the meaning of the
provision above quoted, and that the whole amount constitutes an allowable deduction for the year 1916. On
the other hand, the government contends that the disbursements were capital expenditures and that the only
permissible deduction is an annual allowance under § 12
(a) subd. Second, 39 Stat. 768,' for "depreciation "; but,
if the expenditures are to be regarded as additional rentals
or other payments within the meaning of § 12 (a) subd.
First, the amount must be prorated, under a regulation of
the Treasury Department, over the life of the improvements or the life of the lease, whichever is the shorter.
The federal district court gave judgment for respondent,
which was affirmed by the circuit court of appeals, 289
Fed. 354; and the case is here on certiorari. 263 U. S.
693.
Clearly the expenditures were not "expenses paid
within the year in the maintenance and operation of its
[respondent's] business and properties;" '2 but were for
I Second. All losses actually sustained and charged off within the
year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise, including a
reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of property
arising out of its use or employment in the business . . . Provided, That no deduction shall be allowed for any amount paid out
for new buildings, permanent improvements, or betterments made
to increase the value of any property or estate, and no deduction
shall be made for any amount of expense of restoring property or
making good the exhaustion thereof for which an allowance is or has
been made:
2 Perhaps a critical analysis of the detailed statement found in the
record might reveal items of minor importance which are of this
character, or which might be classed as "rentals or other payments "; but since no point appears to be made in respect of such
a differentiation we do not consider it.

DUFFY v. CENTRAL R. R.
55

Opinion of the Court.

additions and betterments of a permanent character,
such as would, if made by an owner, come within the
proviso in subd. Second, "that no deduction shall be
allowed for any amount paid out for new buildings, permanent improvements, or betterments made to increase
the value of any property, etc." They were made, not to
keep the properties going, but to create additions to
them. They constituted, not upkeep, but investment;not maintenance or operating expenses, deductible under
subd. First, § 12 (a), but capital, subject to annual allowances for exhaustion or depreciation under subd.
Second.
Nevertheless, do such expenditures come within the
words "rentals or other payments required to be made
as a condition to the continued use or possession of property?" We think not. The statement of the court below that it was conceded by both parties that the expenditures were "additional rentals" is challenged by
the government and does .not seem to have .support in
the record. The term "rentals," since there is nothing
to indicate the contrary, must be taken in its usual and
ordinary sense, that is, as implying a fixed sum, or property amounting to a fixed sum, to be paid at stated
times for the use of property. Dodge v. Hogan, 19 R. I.
4, 11; 2 Washburn, Real Property (6th ed.) § 1187;
and in that sense it does not include payments, uncertain both as to amount and time, made for. the cost
of improvements or even for taxes. Guild v. Sampson,
232 Mass. 509, 513; Garner v. Hannah, 13 N.-Y. Super.
Ct. 262, 266-267; Bien v. Bixby, 41 N. Y. Supp. 433,
435; Simonelli v. Di Errico, 110 N. Y. Supp. 1044, 1045.
Expenditures, therefore, like those here involved, made
for betterments and additions to leased premises, cannot
be deducted under the term "rentals," in the absence of
circumstances fairly importing an exceptional meaning;
and these we do not find in respect of the statute under

