UNITED STATES v. FISH.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. FISH.
CERTORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS APPEALS.

No. 653.

Argued April 23, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1925.

1. Under Jud. Code §§ 195, 198, the Court of Customs Appeals has
jurisdiction to review a decision of a board of general appraisers
denying a petition, filed under § 489 of the Tariff Act of Sept. 21,
1922, praying remission of additional duties assessed under that
section based on excess of final appraised value over entered value
of articles imported. P. 610.
2. Such a decision of the board of general appraisers is a final decision
within Jud. Code § 195, since it follows final appraisement, and its
finality is not dependent on subsequent liquidation by the Collector.
P. 611.
3. Upon petition for remission of additional duties under § 489 of
the Tariff Act, supra, the issue to be decided by the board of general appraisers is whether the importer has shown by his evidence
that the entry at less value than finally appraised was without
intent to defraud the revenue, conceal or misrepresent the facts or
deceive the appraiser; and a finding merely that the importer was
careless will not justify the board in deciding whether there should
be a remission. P. 612.
12 Cust. App. 307, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a decision of the Court of Customs

Appeals reversing a decision of the Board of General
Appraisers (T. D. 40,31'5) and remanding the case for a
new trial.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hoppin, with whom
the Solicitor General and Mr. Samuel M. Richardson,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Allan R. Brown for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is brought here by certiorari after a certificate
of importance by the Attorney General, in accord with

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

§ 195 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of Congress approved August 22, 1914, c. 267, 38 Stat. 703. The
case in the Court of Customs Appeals was an appeal from
a decision of the Board of General Appraisers denying two
petitions filed under § 489 of the Tariff Act of September
21, 1922, c. 356, 42 Stat. 858, 962. The parts of § 489
which are relevant here are inserted in the margin.-?
The importer purchased at Hong Kong plaited peacock
flues:
50 pounds at $26.00 per pound, July 9, 1922.
48 pounds at $28.00 per pound, July 27, 1922.
* See. 489. Additional Duties. If the final appraised value of any
article of imported merchandise which is subject to an ad valorem
rate of duty or to a duty based upon or regulated in any manner
by the value thereof shall exceed the entered value, there shall be
levied, collected, and paid, in addition to the duties imposed by law
on such merchandise, an additional duty of 1 per centum of the total
final appraised value thereof for each 1 per centum that such final
appraised value exceeds the value declared in the entry. Such additional duty shall apply only to the particular article or articles in
each invoice that are so advanced" in value upon final appraisement
and shall not be imposed on any article upon which the amount of
duty imposed by law on account of the final appraised value does not
exceed the amount of duty that would be imposed if the final appraised value did not exceed the entered value, and shall be limited
to 75 per centum of the final appraised value of such article or articles. Such additional duties shall not be construed to be penal and
shall not be remitted nor payment thereof in any way avoided,
except in the case of a manifest clerical error, upon the order of the
Secretary of the Treasury, or in any case upon the finding of the
Board of General Appraisers, upon a petition filed and supported by
satisfactory evidence under such rules as the board may prescribe, that
the entry of the merchandise at a less value than that returned
upon final appraisement was without any intention to defraud the
revenue of the United States or to conceal or misrepresent the facts
of the case or to deceive the appraiser as to the value of the merchandise. . . . Upon the making of such order or finding, the
additional duties shall be remitted or refunded, wholly or in part,
and the entry shall be liquidated or reliquidated accordingly. . .

UNITED STATES v. FISH.
607

Opinion of the Court.

50 pounds at $28.00 per pound, Aug. 20, 1922.
36 pounds at $28.00 per pound, Aug. 30, 1922.
27 pounds at $32.00 per pound, Aug. 30, 1922.
The importations were entered at the custom house by
the importer's broker and the entered value stated in the
entries was the invoice price paid for each lot of flues.
All the goods were appraised at $32.00 per pound. Under
paragraph 1419 of the Tariff Act of 1922 (42 Stat. 915)
the duty on the peacock flues was 60 per cent. ad valorem.
The appraised value of $32.00 a pound exceeded the entered value of $28 a pound by 14 per cent. It exceeded
the entered value of $26 a pound by 23 per cent. This
increased the duty on the first 50 pounds from $960 to
$1,328, and on the remaining undervalued 134 pounds
$2,572 to $3,173, or a total on all entries of additional
duties of $968. This illustrates the importance of the
conclusion of the Board as to the intent of the importer in
undervaluation under § 489. In due time after the appraisement the importer filed petitions to avoid the imposition of the additional duties. At the hearing before
the Board the only witness was the importer, who testified
that when he bought he got quotations by cable, that the
market changed rapidly, sometimes as much as 50 per
cent., that he had been importing for two years and that
this was the first instance in which there had been an advance in value by the appraiser; that he gave the broker
the invoice and told him to make the entry, and that in so
doing he did not intend to deceive the appraiser. This
was all the evidence. The Board of General Appraisers
denied the petition, on the ground that the broker who
made the entry should have testified, and suggested that
the most favorable view as to the importer's conduct was
that he was very careless. The importer appealed. The
Government moved to dismiss the appeal, on the ground
that there was no right to appeal. The court denied the

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

motion to dismiss, holding that it had jurisdiction. On
the merits, the court found that the Board of General
Appraisers erred in not finding whether there was or was
not fraud or intent to deceive by the importer or his
broker, and remanded the case for a new trial on that issue.
The relevant parts of § 195, as amended, 38 Stat. 703,
and of § 198, of the Judicial Code, adopted March 3, 1911,
are as follows:
"See. 195. The Court of Customs Appeals established
by this chapter shall exercise exclusive appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal, as herein provided, final decisions by a.board of general appraisers in all cases as to
the construction of the law and the facts respecting the
classification of merchandise and the rate of duty imposed
thereon under such classifications and the fees and charges
connected therewith, and all appealable questions as to
the jurisdiction of said board, and all appealable questions
as to the laws and regulations governing the collection of
the customs revenues. .
"See. 198. If the importer, owner, consignee, or agent
of any imported merchandise, or the collector or Secretary
of the Treasury, shall be dissatisfied with the decision of
the Board of General Appraisers as to the construction of
the law and the facts respecting the classification of such
merchandise and the rate of duty imposed thereon under
such classification, or with any other appealable decision
of said board, they, or either of them, may, within sixty
days next After the entry of such decree or judgment, and
not afterwards, apply to the Court of Customs Appeals
for a review of the questions of law and fact involved in.
such decision.
"
The Government insists that the action of the Board
of General Appraisers under § 489 of the Tariff Act of
1922, does not involve such an exercise of judicial judgment as to be regarded as appealable under the general
jurisdiction of the Court of Customs Appeals. The sug-

UNITED STATES v. FISH.
607

Opinion of the Court.

gestion is that as the evidence to be submitted on the
point at issue is to be under rules to be approved by tle
Board, it is a matter confined to their action; that thir
discretionary power is to be exercised very much as the
discretion is to be exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury on clerical errors under § 489, or as exercised by him
on a question of intent of the importer in the Act of
October 3, 1913, c. 16, § III, I, 38 Stat. 114, 184.
The Court of Customs Appeals reached the conclusion
that the decision of the Board on the law and facts might
affect the duty imposed on the imported articles so materially that Congress must have intended to give the importer the right to avail himself of the provision for
appeal to the Court of Customs Appeals. We agree with
that conclusion. We think that this is a decision of the
law and the facts respecting the rate of duty imposed
on classified merchandise imported, or at least that it
concerns the fees and charges connected therewith. We
think that it is a question relating to the laws and regulations governing the collection of customs revenues of
importance, and is appealable. It comes, therefore, under
the several heads of the jurisdiction of the Court of
Customs Appeals, as defined in §§ 195 and 198. We think
that the interpretation of the expression "appealable
questions" as only including questions which are elsewhere referred to as appealable, is too narrow a view of
the purpose of the statute. It would be unreasonable to
suppose that a Court of Appeals, given the power to reexamine both the law and the facts on all the important
issues raised in respect to duties, was excluded from
reviewing the issue of retaining or remitting a considerable percentage of those duties. This view is sustained
by Brown & Co. v. United States, 12 Ct. Cust. Appls. 93,
although the point there involved was only one of jurisdiction of the Board.
But it is said that this decision of the Board of Appeals
is not a final decisi6n, and that only final decisions are

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

subject to review by the Court of Customs Appeals. Section 195 refers to final decisions, § 198 to decisions. But
even if the language of § 195 is to prevail, we think that
under § 489 the decision of the Board of General Appraisers as to increase or decrease of duties is final, so far
as the Board is concerned. Such a decision under § 489
can not take place until there is a final appraisement, because until that time there is no opportunity to determine
whether the 1 per centum clause applies. But it is said
that the decision is not really final until after the liquidation by the Collector, and that liquidation in this case has
not taken place. We do not think that the liquidation by
the Collector of the duties in such cases constitutes the
final decision subject to appeal. Section 489 itself shows
that the final decision of the Board on this point may be
before or after liquidation. This is not a case analogous
to the final judgments in the ordinary practice of appellate courts in respect to which .it is held that cases appealed may not be taken up piecemeal. As the Board
may make a final decision on the point, we do not see why
the Court of Customs Appeals has not jurisdiction at once
to consider the ruling of the Board and thus facilitate the
ultimate liquidation of the duties if it has not already
been completed.
Upon the merits of the case, we think the Court of
Customs Appeals was right and that the finding of the
Board of General Appraisers did not respond to the requirement of the statute. The issue to be found by the
Board was whether the importer showed by his evidence
that the entry of the merchandise at a less value than that
returned upon final appraisement was without any intention to defraud the revenue of the United States or to
conceal or misrepresent the facts of the case or to deceive
the appraiser as to the value of the merchandise. The
issue presented to the Board was, "Has the importer sustained the negative in this regard?" Merely to find that

