OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

268 U. S.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY & GUARANTY COMPANY v. WOOLDRIDGE, RECEIVER OF THE
NATIONAL BANK OF CLEBURNE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 352. Argued April 29, 1925.-Decided May 11, 1925.
1. Where a guaranty company executed a bond guaranteeing the
fidelity of the president of a national bank, and another to a depositor of the bank insuring payment of deposits, and the bank
thereafter became insolvent through the frauds of the president
and the guarantor paid the depositor and took an assignment of
the depositor's claim against the bank with approval of the bank's
receiver, held that this claim could not be set-off by the guarantor as assignee or subrogee in an action by the receiver upon the
bond first mentioned. P. 237.
2. The doctrine of relation is a legal fiction invented to promote
justice and never allowed to defeat the collateral rights of third
persons. Id.
295 Fed. 847, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment of the District Court in favor of
the receiver of a national bank in an action against the
surety of one of its officers.

Mr. Walter F. Seay and Mr. Jos. A. McCullough, for
the plaintiff in error.
Upon failure of a bank a depositer may off-set any
claim the bank may have against the depositor to the extent of the deposit. The Receiver takes the assets of an
insolvent bank as a mere trustee and creditor, subject to
all claims and defenses that might have been interposed
as against the insolvent corporation. Scott v. Armstrong,
146 U. S. 499.
A surety on paying the debt of its principal is entitled to be subrogated to the rights of the creditors in all

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. WOOLDRIDGE.
234

235

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

or any of the securities, means or remedies which the
creditor has for enforcing payment against the principal.
The right of a surety to subrogation begins with the
contract of suretyship and relates back to that time, and
is not simply inchoate until it pays the debt. Prairie
State National Bank v. IUnited States, 164 U. S. 227;
Henningsonv. U. S. F. & G. Co. 208 U. S. 403; Hardaway
v. National Surety Co. 211 U. S. 550; Fidelity & Deposit
Co. of Marylandv. Duke, 203 Fed. 661; Cox v. New England Ins. Co. 247 Fed. 955; Wasco County v. New England Eq. Life Ins. Ca. et al. 172 Pac. 126.
The closing of the bank, the inability of the bank to
pay its depositors, the necessity of plaintiff in error's paying the railway company and its liability to the bank because of the defalcation, in reality all grew out of the
same transaction, or act, to wit: the embezzlement.
Courts of equity frequently deviate from the strict rule
of mutuality when the justice of the particular case requires it; and the ordinary rule is that where the nutual
obligations have grown out of the same transaction, insolvency on the one hand justifies the set-off of the debt
due upon the other. Scott v. Armstrong, supra; North
Chicago Rolling Mill v. St. Louis Ore & Steel Co., 152
U. S. 594. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Duke, 203 Fed. 661;
National Bank of the Commonwealth v. Mechanics' National Bank, 94 U. S. 437.
A set-off otherwise valid cannot be considered a preference, as it is only the balance, if any, after the set-off is
deducted which can justly be held to form part of the
assets of the insolvent. The right of subrogation relates
back to the time of the contract of suretyship, and not
merely from the time that the debt is paid by the surety
or actual liability upon the surety is invoked. This being correct, then this plaintiff in error's right to set-off
preceded the failure of the bank and of necessity could
not be a preference. Scott v. Armstrong, supra. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

rules of law and equity as to the rights of a surety to
subrogation and set-off are not altered merely because
the surety was a compensated one.
From the inception of the suretyship relation there is
an implied legal obligation on the part of the principal
to indemnify and reimburse his surety. This implied
promise of indemnity is as effectual as if embodied in
a written indemnity agreement executed by the principal at the date of its application for the bond: Williams v. U. S. Fidelity& Guaranty Co., 236 U. S. 557; and
constitutes the surety a creditor of the principal from
the time of the execution of the bond. To regard the
claim of the surety against the principal as arising merely
through assignment after insolvency of the principal and
payment to the obligee is to ignore the debtor-creditor
relationship existing ab initio between a surety and its
principal. Rice v. Southgate, 16 Gray, 143; Barney v.
Grover, 28 Vermont, 393; Beaver v. Beaver, 23 Pa. St.
167; Walker v. Dicks, 80 N. C. 263; M. Kain v. Bro.
V. Bledsoe, 98 Pac. 921; Craighead v. Swartz, 67 Ati.
1003; Allen v. Van Campen, 1 Freem. Ch. 273; Labbe v.
Bernard, 82 N. E. 688; Dudley Lumber Co. v. Nolan
Bros. 156 S. W. 465.
Mr. Ellis Douthit, with whom Mr. J. H. Barwise, Jr.,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. Loren Grinstead and Mr. Frank T. Wyman filed
a brief as amici curiae by special leave of Court.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES . delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The National Bank of Cleburne, Texas, became insolvent through the frauds of its president and closed its
doors on October 17, 1921. On November 1 following the
defendant in error was appointed receiver, and on April

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. WOOLDRIDGE.
234

Opinion of the Court.

14, 1922, began this suit upon a bond executed by the
plaintiff in error on August 28, 1921, binding it to indemnify the Bank for losses of this character to the extent of $25,000. The Guarantyr Company pleaded in setoff that on August 24, 1921, it became surety for the
Bank upon another bond to the Gulf, Colorado and Santa
Fe Railway Company, conditioned upon payment by the
Bank to the Railway Company of the Company's deposits in the Bank, and that on January 16, 1922, it paid
to the Railway Company $23,312.51 and as matter of
law became subrogated to the rights of the Company
against the Bank, and in addition took an assignment of
such rights, which was approved by the plaintiff on
February 1. An agreement of the parties was filed, that
the facts alleged were true and that the only question for
the Court was "whether or not under the facts alleged,
the defendant is entitled as against the plaintiff to set off
the demand it holds as assignee or subrogee of the Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company." Thus the
answer and the agreement confine the issue before us to
the rights of the defendant Guaranty Company by way
of subrogation or assignment. The District Court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals gave judgment for the plaintiff for $25,000 interest and costs and denied the defendant's right. 295 Fed. 847.
The two bonds were wholly independent transactions
and were not brought into mutual account by an agreement of the parties. The Guaranty Company after the
insolvency of the Bank could not have bought a claim
against the Bank and used it in setoff. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 511. Davis v. Elmira Savings
Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 290. Yardley v. Philler, 167 U. S.
344, 360. The Receiver contends that that is the position of the defendant here, because it was only a guarantor and was only liable upon the default of the President
of the Bank that produced the insolvency. The Court

