OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

to transactions taking place after it was passed, but the
general principle "that the laws are not to be considered as
applying to cases which arose before their passage" is
preserved, when to disregard it would be to impose an
unexpected liability that if known might have induced
those concerned to avoid it and to use their money in
other ways. Schwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529, 534. This
case and the following ones, Union Trust Co. v. Wardell,
258 U. S. 537, Levy. v. Wardell, 258 U. S. 542, and
Knox v. McEltigott, 258 U. S. 546, go far toward deciding the one now before us. They also indicate that the
Revenue Act of 1924, c. 2, § 302(h); 43 Stat. 250, 305,
making (g) (the equivalent of (f) above) apply to past
transactions, does not help but if anything hinders the
Collector's construction of the present law. Smietanka
v. First Trust & Savings Bank, 257 U. S. 602.
Decree affirmed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA

v. STATE OF TEXAS,

UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Argued April 20, 1925.

Decided May 11, 1925.

1. Description of a boundary in field notes and patent as "up the
river ", construed, in the light of connected surveys and a plat, as
calling for the river as a boundary. P. 255.
2. A natural boundary like a river controls courses and distances.
Id.
3. A river bank boundary, whether private or public, changes with
erosion and accretion. P. 256.
4. Only where conduct or statements are calculated to mislead a
party and are acted upon by him in good faith to his prejudice
can he invoke them as a basis of an estoppel; and if they relate to
a real property title the condition of which is known to both
parties, or both have the same means of ascertaining it, there can
be no estoppel. Id.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
252

Opinion of the Court.

ON exceptions to the special master's report on conflicting claims to royalty interests in proceeds held by the
receiver in this cause derived from oil wells in a parcel
of land on Red River in Texas. Exceptions overruled.
Mr. C. F. Greenwood for Durfee Mineral Company,
in support of exceptions.
Mr. A. H. Carriganfor Roberts and Britain, contra.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
As an incident of the receivership in this cause it becomes necessary to determine conflicting claims to the
royalty interest in the impounded proceeds of the oil
taken from wells Nos. 152, 153 and 154. 258 U. S. 574,
581. These wells are immediately south of the south
bank of Red River, and therefore in the State of Texas.
261 U. S. 340. The claimants are .T. P. Roberts and A. H.
Britain on the one hand and the Durfee Mineral Company on the other. Both claims are founded on Texas
surveys-that of Roberts and Britain on the Lewis Powell
survey made in 1861 and patented in 1868, and that of
the Durfee Mineral Company on the A. A. Durfee survey
made in 1886 and patented in 1889.
The principal question is whether the Powell survey
extended northward to the south bank of Red River,
leaving nothing between it and the bank, or stopped short
of the bank, leaving a narrow wedge-shaped strip between
it and the bank. The Durfee survey was made 25 years
later on the assumption that the Powell survey left such
a strip there. The three wells are in the wedge-shaped
strip or land accreted to it. A secondary question is
whether, if the Powell survey included this strip, the
present owners of that survey are estopped from claiming the strip, and therefore the royalty interest, as against
the Durfee Mineral Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

January 19, last, the conflicting claims were referred to
a special master with directions to take the evidence and
report the same with findings of fact, conclusions of law
and recommendations for a decree. 267 U. S. 7, par. 8.
The master made his report with findings, conclusions
and recommendations favorable to the claim of Roberts
and Britain; the Durfee Mineral Company excepted; and
both claimants have been heard in briefs and oral argument on the report and exceptions.
The master found that the Powell survey fronted on
the river and had the south bank as its northerly boundary. In the exceptions it is insisted that this finding
rests on an erroneous interpretation of the survey. For
reasons which will be explained, we think it rests on a
right interpretation.
The Powell was one of five surveys made by the same
surveyor on the same day-May 8, 1861. These surveys
were contiguous and were in the form required of surveys
fronting on a stream like Red River.' They were also so
tied together that the interpretation of one involves an
examination of the others.
The surveyor began with the easterly one and proceeded-westerly until he had finished all five. His field
notes described all as "on the south bank of Red River,"
and the drawings or plats accompanying the field notes
represented all as fronting on the river and having its irregular line as a northerly boundary. The field notes of all,
excepting the Powell, also described the northerly line as
beginning at the northwest corner of the adjoining survey
on the east and running "thence up the river with its
meanders" in a stated direction a given distance to a stake
or mound "in the bottom" or "on the bluff" at the other
end. The Powell was the fourth survey in the line, and
so was between others the field notes of which said
1

Vernon's Sayles' Civ. Stat. §§ 5338, 5339.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
252

Opinion of the Court.

"thence up the river with its meanders." The field notes
of the Powell transmitted to the state land office, and on
which the patent issued, were like the others, save that
they said "thence up the river" and omitted "with its
meanders." But the field notes entered in the appropriate
local records said" thence up the river with its meanders."
Doubtless the discrepancy resulted from a clerical error
in preparing the duplicate sent to the state land office.
We put aside the question of the effect to be given to
the entry in the local records; for the phrase "thence up
the river" in the field notes sent to the state land office
and in the patent evidently mean up the natural course
of the river. Schnackenberg v. State, 229 S. W. 934,
937; Stover v. Gilbert, 247 S. W. 841, 843; Brewn v.
Huger, 21 How. 305, 320. Of course, that phrase must
be read with the declaration that the survey was on the
south bank of the river and in the light of the drawing or
plat representing the river as the northern boundary.
We think it apparent that the survey was intended to
call, and did call, for the river as a boundary and that
controlling influence must be given to that call rather
than to the course and distance given for that boundary.
The courts of Texas, in common with other courts,
recognize and apply this rule of interpretation. Anderson v. Stamp&, 19 Tex. 460, 465-466; Stafford v. King,
30 Tex. 257, 271-272; Schnackenberg v. State, supra;
Stover v. Gilbert, supra, and cases there cited; Cordell
Petroleum Co. v. Michna, 276 Fed. 483. The evidence,
as pointed out by the master, does not admit of the conclusion that the surveyor mistook a bayou or other body
of water for the river, or that the river was not in immediate proximity to the upper corners of the survey
when it was made (see United States v. Lane, 260 U. S.
662); so authorities rejecting an obviously mistaken call
for a river or lake are not in point. See Jeems Bayou

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Fishing and Hunting Club v. United States, 260 U. S.
561.
The master next found that the land lying between the
south bank as now existing and that bank as existing at
the time of the Powell survey is accretion to the bank,
and therefore part of the Powell tract. Exception is taken
to this finding on grounds that are not made very clear.
A short statement of what the evidence tends to show in
this connection will make it plain that the exception must
be overruled. During the 25-year period intervening between the Powell survey and the Durfee survey there
was a large addition to the south bank, but in later years
most of that addition was cut away. At present the bank
extends a little farther northward than it did when the
Powell survey was made. These changes all resulted
from the natural and gradual processes of accretion and
erosion, which are rather pronounced in Red River. Its
currents and channels shift from one side of its wide bed
to the other, gradually cut away one bank and build up
the other, and later on reverse that action. Where, as
here, a boundary bank is changed by these processes the
boundary, whether private or public, follows the change.
Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U. S. 606, 636; Oklahoma v.
Texas, 265 U. S. 493, 499.
The necessary result of the two findings we have mentioned is that there was no public land between the
Powell tract and the river to which the Durfee survey
and patent could give any right.
The next exception is to the master's conclusion that
there was no sufficient evidence on which to invoke an
estoppel against the assertion by Roberts and Britain of
title to the strip in controversy or to the royalty interest
arising therefrom.
The grounds on which an estoppel is invoked are that
Specht, from whom Roberts acquired the Powell tract,
had theretofore made and distributed a plat of that tract,

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
252

Opinion of the Court.

along with others, whereon it was represented as not extending to the river bank; that Roberts after getting the
title made and distributed a plat with a like representation of the northern boundary; that Roberts pointed out
to the Durfee Company and its predecessors as the northern boundary a line running south of the land in dispute;
and that, acting upon those plats and Roberts' statement,
the Durfee Company and its predecessors purchased the
land in dispute from a claimant under the Durfee survey
and paid a valuable consideration for it. The evidence
bearing on the asserted estoppel is in several respects conflicting. It is fully and fairly reviewed by the master
in his report and need not be restated here. The master
concluded, and we agree with him, that as a whole the
evidence shows that the Durfee Company and its predecessors purchased with full knowledge of the record
title, including the surveyor's field notes before described;
that the plats made by Specht and Roberts were too
vague to have been relied upon as a representation of the
nature or location of the northern boundary; that the conveyance from Specht to Roberts, which was part of the
record title, described the Powell tract as extending to
the meanders of the river; that the Durfee Company and
its predecessors in purchasing did not in fact rely upon
the Specht and Roberts plats or any statement of Roberts, but upon a report made by their attorneys based on
the record title, including the field notes; and that the
alleged statement by Roberts to them, if made, was made
after they had purchased, gone into possession and paid
the purchase price. In this situation the asserted estoppel
must fail. Only where conduct or statements are calculated to mislead a party and are acted upon by him
in good faith to his prejudice can he invoke them as a
basis of such an estoppel. And if they relate to the title
of real property "where the condition of the title is
known to both parties, or both have the same means of

