LEE v. OSCEOLA IMP. DIST.
638

Counsel for Parties.

the writ and declaration so as to substitute the designated
Agent as the defendant instead of the Railroad Company,
as construed and applied in the present case, are void
because of repugnancy to ยง 206 of the Transportation Act.
The judgment of the Superior Court is reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
LEE ET AL. v. OSCEOLA & LITTLE RIVER ROAD
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1 OF MISSISSIPPI COUNTY, ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 336. Argued April 21, 27, 1925.-Decided June 8, 1925.
1. A decree of a state supreme court enforcing special assessments
despite objection that the underlying statute, as construed and
applied, deprived the land owners of property without due process
of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, is reviewable by
writ of error. P. 644.
2. A State cannot impose special taxes on lands acquired by private
owners from the United States on account of benefits resulting from
a road improvement made before the United States parted with
its title. P. 645.
3. When a tax is beyond the constitutional powers of a State, its
exaction is a taking of property without due process of law, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 646.
162 Ark. 4, reversed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a decree foreclosing a statutory lien to pay
special re-assessments on lands in a road improvement
district.
Mr. Prewitt Semmes, with whom Messrs. D. F. Taylor
and Charles M. Bryan were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. J. T. Coston for defendant in error.

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Osceola. & Little River Road Improvement District
brought this suit in a Chancery Court of Arkansas against
Lee and the other plaintiffs in error to collect an assessment of taxes that had been made against them for the
benefit accruing to their lands by the improvements. The
Chancellor found the issues in favor of the District, and
decreed that the statutory lien for the assessments be foreclosed and the lands sold to pay the same. This decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 162 Ark. 4. The
case is properly here on writ of error; and a pending petition for certiorari is accordingly denied.
The sole question presented is whether the Arkansas
statute under which the taxes in question were assessed,
as construed and applied in this case, deprives the land
owners of their property without due process of law in
violation of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
When the District was originally organized, the lands
involved in this suit, which are known as "lake lands, or
sunk lands", were included in it. The benefits accruing
from the improvements were then assessed against all the
land owners, including various persons who were supposed to be the riparian owners of the lake lands. It was
subsequently ascertained, before the completion of the improvements, that the United States was the owner of
these lake lands. It was recognized, however, that it was
not liable to assessment, and no attempt was made to collect from it any part of the assessed benefits. After the
improvements had been completed, the United States conveyed these lake lands, under the Homestead Act, to the
present owners. Thereafter, the Board of Commissioners
of the District caused a reassessment to be made of the
benefits accruing to all the lands within the District, including the lake lands which had formerly belonged to the

LEE v. OSCEOLA IMP. DIST.
643

Opinion of the Court.

United States. This reassessment was made under a section of the Arkansas statute which provided that: '.'The
board of commissioners may not oftener than once a year
order a reassessment of the benefits, which shall be made,
advertised, revised and confirmed as in the case of the
original assessment with like effect." Crawford & Moses'
Digest of Arkansas Statutes, ยง 5399. It is the reassessment of benefits thus made which the District by this suit
has sought to collect.
It was settled many years ago that the property of the
United States is exempt by the Constitution from taxation
under the authority of a State so long as title remains in
the United States. Van Brocklin v. State of Tennessee,
117 U. S. 151, 180. This is conceded. It is urged, however,
that this rule has no application after the title has passed
from the United States, and that it may then be taxed
for any legitimate purposes. While this is true in reference to general taxes assessed after the United States has
parted with its title, we think it clear that it is not the case
where the tax is sought to be imposed for benefits accruing
to the property from improvements made while it was still
owned by the United States. In the Van Brocklin Case,
supra, p. 168, it was said that the United States has the
exclusive right to control and dispose of its public lands,
and that "no State can interfere with this right, or embarrass its exercise." Obviously, however, the United
States will be hindered in the disposal of lands upon which
local improvements have been made, if taxes may thereafter b~e assessed against the purchasers for the benefits
resulting from such improvements. Such a liability for the
future assessments of taxes would create a serious incumbrance upon the lands, and its subsequent enforcement
would accomplish indirectly the collection of a tax against
the United States which could not be directly imposed.
In Nevad2 National Bank v. Poso Irr. Dist., 140 Cal.
344, 347, in which it was held that the State could not

