OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

268 U. S.

review. Nor do such expenditures come within the
phrase "or other payments," which was evidently meant
to bring in payments ejusdem generis with "rentals,"
such as taxes, insurance, interest on mortgages, and the
like, constituting liabilities of the lessor on account of the
leased premises which the lessee has covenanted to pay.
In respect of the 999 year leases, the additions and
betterments will all be consumed in their use by the
lessee within a fraction of the term, and, as to them, allowances for annual depreciation will suffice to meet the
requirements of the statute. In the case of the pier
leases, the improvements may and probably will outlast
the term, and, as to them, deductions may more properly
take the form of proportionate annual allowances for exhaustion.
The judgment below cannot be sustained except for
$37,781.54, the amount of a conceded overpayment, with
interest thereon as allowed by the trial court.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with instructions to modify the judgment in conformity
with this opinion.
INDUSTRIAL ASSOCIATION OF SAN FRANCISCO,
ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
APPEAL FROMT THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 365.

Argued March 10, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

For the purpose of freeing the local building industry from domination by trade unions, numerous building contractors and dealers in
building materials in San Francisco combined to establish, in effect,
the "open shop" plan of employment, by requiring builders who
desired building materials of certain specified kinds to obtain
permits therefor from a Builders' Exchange, and by refusing such
permits to those who did not support the plan. Held that the

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

65

Argument for Appellants.

combination did not violate the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, because
(1) Its object was confined to a purely local matter and interference with interstate commerce was neither intended nor desired. P. 77.
(2) The materials for which permits were required were all produced
in California, except one kind as to which permits were required
only after they had entered the State and become commingled
with the common mass of local property, so that their interstate
movement and commercial status had ended. P. 78.
(3) Any interference with the free movement of supplies from other
States was incidental, indirect and remote, due merely to lack of
demand for such supplies upon the part of builders who, through
being unable to purchase the local permit materials, were unable
to go on ith their jobs. P. 80.
(4) Instances in which it was alleged that persons in other States
were directly prevented or discouraged from shipping into California were either not proven, or were related to a practice
abandoned long before the suit was instituted, with no probability of renewal, or were sporadic and doubtful and of so little
weight as evidence of the conspiracy alleged as to call for application of the maximum de minimis non curalex. P. 83.
293 Fed. 925, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the appellant associations, corporations and individuals
from conduct found to violate the Anti-Trust Act.
Mr. H. H. Phleger, with whom Messrs. 0. K. McMurray, Chauncey F. Eldridge and George 0. Bahrs
were on the briefs, for appellants.
The evidence shows that certain of the defendants,
participants in a local industrial controversy, refused to
sell certain state-produced materials and certain supplies which had ceased to be articles in interstate commerce, to those aligned on the opposite side of the industrial controversy; that such refusals were made in San
Francisco; that the materials were to be used in San
Francisco and vicinity; that there was no intent to affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

268 U. S.

interstate commerce, to fix prices or to stifle competition, and that the refusals had in fact no such effect.
The defendants contend that this evidence does not establish a violation of the Act for the following reasons:
1. The agreement was not intended to restrain interstate trade; it was not intended to fix prices or restrain
competition; it had no commercial or trade purpose.
2. Its effect on interstate commerce was secondary, remote, incidental and slight, if there was any effect at all.
3. The situs and effect of the restraint, if any, were
local.
4. The defendants were themselves direct participants
in the industrial controversy and committed no unlawful acts.
5. The restraint upon interstate commerce, if any, was
not unreasonable.
Participants in an industrial conflict, confined to a
single city and vicinity, may refuse to sell building materials in that city, to their opponents for use in that
city, and" if there is no intent to restrain interstate commerce, and if any effect thereon is slight, incidental and
remote, there is no violation of the Anti-Trust Act. The
Act condemns only those combinations which directly
and unduly restrain interstate commerce. American
Column & Lumber Co. v. 'United States, 257 U. S.
377-400; United States v. Union P. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61.
To come within the inhibitions of the Act, we must find:
A restraint of interstate commerce; direct restraint of that
commerce; and undue restraint of that commerce.
United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1; Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375; United Leather Workers
v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457; Hopkins
v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604. In these cases the court has limited
the application of the Act to agreements which exercise

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

67

Argument for Appellants.

a direct effect upon interstate commerce and where the
intent or "dangerous probability" is to restrict that
commerce. The principles marking the limits of direct
and undue restraint of interstate commerce receive
further illustration from a consideration of the cases in
this court under the Anti-Trust Act dealing with labor
disputes, a .group which may conveniently be termed the
Labor Cases. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Duplex
Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; United Mine Workers v.
Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344. See United Mine
Workers of America v. Pennsylvania, 300 Fed. 965;
Finley v. United Mine Workers of America, 300 Fed.
972, 979; United Leather Workers v. Herkert & Meisel
Trunk Co., supra.
In order that a restraint of trade shall be obnoxious to
the Act, it must constitute an "undue" restraint.
United States v. StandardOil, 221 U. S. 1. The decisions
of this court have made it clear that agreements which
result in the restraint of. intrastate, as distinguished from
interstate, commerce are not within the Act, and that
the court acquires no jurisdication over that part of a
combination or agreement which relates to commerce
wholly within a State by reason of the fact that the combination also covers commerce which is interstate.
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211.
As to the refusal to sell in San Francisco for use in
San Francisco, small quantities of lime and plaster produced in other States, it is equally clear that such refusals did not constitute a violation of the Act. The
goods at the time of the refusals had ceased to be in interstate commerce. Illinois Cent. Ry. v. De Fuentes,
236 U. S. 157; Pub. Util. Comm. of Kansas v. Landon,
249 U. S. 236. The materials here are not like the cattle
in the Swift Case or in Stafford v. Wallace -(258 U. S.
495) -not in the current of interstate commerce; the tran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

268 U. S.

sit had stopped for all time. The materials were at their
ultimate destination, never more to move out into interstate commerce. Brown v. Huston, 114 U. S. 622.
The decree is vague, indefinite and uncertain and
does not set forth the acts or transactions which are forbidden. It is a sweeping injunction to obey the law and
puts the whole conduct of the defendants at the peril
of a summons for contempt. As to some of the defendants, the evidence wholly fails to show any participation
in any of the acts or things complained of or any connection therewith. The court therefore committed error
in entering its decree against such defendants.
Mr. Augustus T. Seymour, Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Messrs. Henry Anderson Guiler and
C. Stanley Thompson, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.
The object sought to be accomplished by the defendants was unlawful. The purpose was to take away from
employers the right to employ men upon any other terms
than those of the so-called American Plan. Every employer who joined the combination stripped himself for
the time being of the right to run his job upon such
terms as he pleased.
The constitutional right of an employer to dispense
with the services of an employee because of his membership in a labor union was recognized by this court in
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, where an Act of
Congress was held to be an arbitrary interference with
the liberty of contract which no government could legally
justify in a free land. This case was followed in the case
of Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1. The court expressly
limited its consideration to agreements made voluntarily
and without coercion or duress and which 'had no reference to interference with the rights of third parties or
the general public (p. 20). In the case of Hitchman Coal

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

69

Argument for the United States.

& Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 250, it was held
that the plaintiff was acting within its lawful rights in
employing its men only on terms of continuing nonmembership in the United Mine Workers of America,
and that both employers and employees have an interest which is entitled to the protection of the law in -the
freedom of the former to exercise without interference
or compulsion his judgment as to whom he shall employ. The present is just such a case where the defendants
joined in a combination to compel third persons and
strangers to submit to certain limitations in their employment of labor. The elements of combination and coercion are both present.
The means employed by the defendants to accomplish
their object directly restrained interstate commerce.
The effect of the combined trade controlled was a threat
to manufacturers of building materials outside of the
State which was intended to, and which did in fact, restrain them from shipping building materials to "black
listed" dealers and contractors and "ineligibles."
Nor was the cooperation of contractors in adopting the
American Plan voluntary. They were forced to adopt
that plan under penalty of not obtaining permits and not
obtaining building material. They were required to sign
pledges of allegiance to the conspiracy. That such an
agreement is in restraint of trade is undeniable, whatever
the motive or necessity which has induced the compact.
The real contention of appellants is that the defendants
did not intend to restrain interstate commerce and that
their acts did not involve any unreasonable and undue
restraint of such trade or commerce. That contention
presents a question of fact, the solution of which must
be arrived at by a consideration of the evidence. The
principle, however, is clearly established that any combination which seeks to compel third persons and strangers not to engage in a course of trade except upon con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

268 U. S.

ditions which the members of the combination impose is
an agreement in restraint of trade within the meaning
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Gompers v. Buck's Stove
& Range Co. 221 U. S. 418; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.
274; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600; Montague v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 38; Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.443. The very
circulation of information among the manufacturers located in States other than California of the names of
contractors and builders or dealers who were not operating upon the American Plan or who refused to pledge
themselves to operate upon that plan, was intended to
have the natural effect of causing such manufacturers to
withhold sales and shipments from the concerns so listed.
The obstruction and restraint of a scheme like this were
illustrated in Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217
U. S.433, which did not involve a question of interstate
commerce. See Federal Trade Comm. v. Raymond Co.,
263 U. S.565.
The real gist of the conspiracy here was the use of
force to coerce manufacturer's outside of the State to
withhold the materials manufactured by them from anyone within the State who did not submit to the will of the
conspirators. Thepowerof defendants is shown by astipulation in the record that 90 per cent of the new building work in San Francisco was being done by members
of the defendant. Under the decisions above cited, it
was enough if the natural'tendency of the acts done by
the defendants was to cause the manufacturers from
without the State to withhold shipments from builders
and contractors who refused to operate upon the American Plan. The vice of defendants' plan was in preventing building materials being distributed in the natural
course of trade. The restraint on interstate commerce
was material. In determining whether interstate commerce is involved in this case it is not. necessary to con-

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

71

Opinion of the Court.

sider the decisions of this court in United States v. E. C.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604.
The distinction between those cases and one like the
present case was pointed out in the opinion of Montague
v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, at page 48, and in Stafford v..
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, at page 524. Nor is it important
to consider cases like Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Kidd
v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 110,
116, and other decisions which draw the line where interstate commerce commences and where it ends. See
Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291. The cases
of United Mine Workers of America v. Coronado Coal
Co., 259 U. S. 344, and United Leatherworkers International Union v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S.
457, are both distinguishable from this case by the fact
that the restraints involved in them related to the prevention of manufacture as distinguished from interference with the distribution of commodities after they
had been manufactured.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by the United States against a number of
voluntary associations, corporations and individuals,
charging them with engaging, and threatening to continue
to engage, in a conspiracy to restrain trade and commerce
in building materials among the several states, in violation of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209. The bill prays for an injunction restraining the further execution of the alleged conspiracy, for a dissolution of certain of the associations as illegal, and for other
relief. After a hearing, the federal district court declined
to dissolve any of the appellants or interfere with their
general activities, but entered a decree enjoining them
specifically from (a) requiring any permit for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

chase, sale or use of building materials or supplies produced without the State of California and coming into
that state in interstate or foreign commerce; (b) making,
as a condition for the issuance of any permit for the purchase, sale or use of building materials or supplies, any
regulations that will interfere with the free movement
of building materials, plumbers' or other supplies produced without the state; (c) attempting to prevent or
discourage any person without the state from shipping
building materials or other supplies to any person within
the state; or (d) aiding, abetting or assisting, directly.or
indirectly, individually or collectively, others to do any
of the foregoing matters or things. 293 Fed. 925. A reversal of this decree is sought upon the ground, mainly,
that the 6vidence wholly fails to show any contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate or foreign
trade or commerce, or a violation in any respect of the
provisions of the Anti-Trust Act. Other grounds assigned, in view of the conclusion we have reached, we
put aside as unnecessary to be considered.
That there was a combination and concerted action
among the appellants, is not disputed. The various agreements, courses of conduct and acts relied upon to establish
the case for the government arose out of a long continued
controversy,-or, more accurately, a series of controversies,-between employers engaged in the construction of
buildings in San Francisco, upon the one side, and the
building trade unions of San Francisco, of which there
were some fifty in number with a combined membership
of about 99% of all the workmen engaged in the building
industries of that city, upon the other side.
Prior to February 1, 1921, the unions had adopted and
enforced, and were then enforcing, many restrictions
bearing upon the employment of their members, which
the employers, and a large body of other citizens, considered to be unreasonable, uneconomic and injurious to

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

73

Opinion of the Court.

the
building industries, resulting, it was asserted, in decreased
production, increased cost and generally
retarded
progress. Among the restrictions complained of, were
rules limiting the number of apprentices, limiting the
amount of work, limiting or forbidding the use of laborsaving devices, and interfering with the legitimate authority of the employer. The plumbers' union, for example, enforced the following, among others: no union
plumber, whatever the emergency, was permitted to work
on non-union material or to work overtime on Saturday
without permission of the union; detailed reports were
required showing the number of fixtures.set each clay, and
men who exceeded the standard fixed by the union were
disciplined; the time which any employer was permitted
to stay on a job was limited to two hours a day; as many
men as the union saw fit could be ordered on a job regardless of the wishes of the employer. Among the restrictions imposed by the painters' union were these:
wide brushes with long handles for roof painting were prohibited, and it was required that all such work should be
done with a small brush; certain labor-saving devices
were prohibited; and union painters declined to paint
non-union lumber.
The unions rigidly enforced the "closed shop,"-that
is, they denied the right of the employer to employ any
workman, however well qualified, who was not a member
of a San Francisco union; and this applied to a member
of a labor union in another locality, who, moreover, practically was precluded from joining a San Francisco union
by reason of the cost and onerous conditions, imposed.
They were confederated under the name of the Building
Trades Council, by means of which their combined power
was exerted in support of the demands and policies of
each, until they had acquired a virtual monopoly of all
kinds of building trade labor in San Francisco, and no
building work of any consequence could be done'in that

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

city, except in subordination to these demands and
policies.
Earjy in 1921, serious differences having arisen between
the unions and the employers in respect of wages, hours
and working conditions, an agreement for arbitration was
made and a board of arbitrators selected. The board,
after a hearing, made a tentative award reducing the
scale of wages for the ensuing six months. Challenging
the authority of the board to reduce wages, the unions
refused to be bound by the award and repudiated and
abandoned the arbitration. Strikes ensued; efforts to
bring the strikers back to work failed; and building operations in San Francisco practically came to a stand-still.
Thereupon, in an endeavor to find a solution of the difficulty, mass-meetings were held by representative citizens
in large numbers and from all walks of life. At these
meetings it was resolved that the work of building must
go forward, and that if San Francisco mechanics refused
to work, others must be employed from the outside.
Funds were raised and placed in the hands of a committee of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, and,
under its direction, workmen were brought in from the
outside with promises of employment at the wages fixed
by the arbitrators. Subsequently, the Industrial Association of San Francisco was organized to take the place
of the committee and carry on its work. The strikers,
however, returned to work, and for a time no objection
was made to the employment of nonunion workmen.
But later, demands were made by certain of the unions for
the discharge of all non-union workmen and the restoration of the "closed shop." These demands were disregarded, and there was another strike. A boycott was instituted and acts of violence against persons and property
committed. In the meantime, one of the appellants, the
Builders Exchange of San Francisco, with a membership
of more than one thousand building contractors and deal-

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

75

Opinion of the Court.

ers in building materials, in co6peration with the Industrial Association and other appellants, devised and put
into effect what is called the "American plan."
The basic requirement of the plan was that there
should be no discrimination for or against an employee on
account of his affiliation or non-affiliation with a labor
union, except that at least one non-union man in each
craft should bQ employed on each particular job as an
evidence, it is suggested, of good faith. In effect, the
"American plan" and the "open shop " policy are the
same.
The principal means adopted to enforce the plan was
the "permit system," the object of which was to limit sales
of certain specified kinds of materials to builders who
supported the plan. To render this restriction effective,
the person concerned was required to obtain a permit
from the Builders Exchange, specifying the kinds and
quantities of materials to be furnished and the particular
job on which they were to be used. The materials specified were cement, lime, plaster, ready-mixed mortar, brick,
terra cotta and clay products, sand, rock and gravel. Substantially all of these were California productions and
were deliberately selected for that reason, in order to avoid
interference with interstate commerce. The only material exception was plaster, which was brought in from the
outside, but consigned to local representatives of the
manufacturers or to local dealers in San Francisco, and
brought to rest in salesrooms and warehouses and commingled with other goods and property, before being subjected to the permit rule. A suggestion was made at one
time that, if necessary; the rule would be extended to all
other materials used in the building trades; but it does
not appear that this was done. It is said that lath of
various kinds, wallboard and Keene cement also were put
under the rule; but we think the record discloses that, in
fact, this was never agreed upon or carried into effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

There is evidence of efforts to extend the "American
plan" to other cities and states. Permits were extensively withheld in respect of buildings where the
"American plan" was not adopted or not enforced.
Builders and contractors were constantly urged to observe
the plan and were warned that failure to do so would result in a denial of future permits. A check was kept
upon shops and building jobs by inspectors, and daily reports were made as to whether the plan was being observed. Whenever it appeared in any case that the plan
was not being lived up to, a warning letter was sent out.
Under appropriate by-laws, members of organizations
subscribing to the plan who violated it were fined and in
some instances expelled; and other methods, not necessary to be recited, in part persuasive and in part coercive,
were adopted and enforced in order to secure a thoroughgoing maintenance of the plan.
With the conflict between the policy of the " closed
shop " and that of the "open shop," or with the "American plan," per se, we have nothing to do. And since it
clearly appears that the object of the plan was one entirely apart from any purpose to affect interstate commerce, the sole inquiry we are called upon to make is
whether the means employed to effectuate it constituted
a violation of the Anti-Trust Act; and, in the light of the
evidence adduced, that inquiry need be pursued little
beyond a consideration. of the nature of the permit
system, what was done under it, and the effect thereof
upon interstate commerce.
The bases of the decree, which, in the opinion of the
court below, were established, may be briefly and categorically stated as follows:
1. Permits were required for the purchase of building
materials and supplies produced in and brought from
other states into California.
2. Permits, even if limited to California produced materials, nevertheless, interfered with and prevented the

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

77

Opinion of the Court.

free movement of building materials and supplies from
other states into California.
3. Persons in other states were directly prevented or
discouraged from shipping building materials and supplies into California.
It will be well, in limine, to emphasize certain clearly
established general facts, in the light of which these
grounds must be considered. Interference with interstate trade was neither desired nor intended. On the
contrary, the desire and intention was to avoid any such
interference, and, to this end, the selection of materials
subject to the permit system was substantially confined
to California productions. The thing aimed at and
sought to be attained was not restraint of the interstate
sale or shipment of commodities, but was a purely local
matter, namely, regulation of building operations within
a limited local area, so as to prevent their domination by
the labor unions. Interstate commerce, indeed commerce of any description, was not the object of attack,
"for the sake of which the several specific acts and
courses of conduct were done and adopted." Swift and
Company v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 397. The facts
and circumstances which led to and accompanied the
creation of the combination and the concert of action
complained of, which we have briefly set forth, apart
from other and more direct evidence, are "ample to supply a full local motive for the conspiracy." United
Mine Workers v. CoronadoCo., 259 U. S. 344, 411.
But it is not enough that the object of a combination
or conspiracy be outside the purview of the act, if the
means adopted to effectuate it directly and unduly obstruct the free flow of interstate commerce. The statute
is not aimed alone at combinations and conspiracies
which contemplate a restraint of interstate commerce,
but includes those which directly and unduly cause such
restraint in fact. See American Column Co. v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

States, 257 U. S. 377, 400; Eastern States Lumber Ass'n.
v. United States, 234.U. S. 600, 613.
It remains to apply these principles, in the light of
the facts, to the several grounds above stated, upon which
the decree rests.
First: That permits were required for the purchase of
materials produced in and brought from other states.
To the extent that this may imply that permits were
required in respect of building materials or supplies produced outside the State of California and shipped into
the state, it is not sustained by the evidence. The
record contains two letters signed by the president of
the Builders Exchange to the effect, in one, that there
"are added," and, in the other of later date, that "it is
now necessary to add to the permit system," other materials than those in the enumerated list; and the person
addressed in the second is asked to govern himself accordingly. But the positive, uncontradicted evidence is
that, in fact, permits were required for the originally
listed materials and for nothing else. While about
twenty-eight thousand permits in all were issued, there
is a significant absence of evidence that any of them so
issued related to other than such listed materials. Upon
the proof, we reasonably cannot accept the view that
these letters are enough to show a departure from the
declared and established purpose of the movement on
the whole to avoid interference with interstate trade by
confining the permit system substantially to California
produced articles.
It is true, however, that plaster, in large measure produced in other states and shipped into California, was on
the list; but the evidence is that the permit requirement
was confined to such plaster as previously had been
brought into the state and commingled with the common
mass of local property, and in respect of which, therefore, the interstate movement and the interstate commer-

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

79

Opinion of the Court.

cial status had ended. This situation is utterly unlike
that presented in the Swift Case, supra, where, the only
interruption of the interstate transit of live stock being
that necessary to find a purchaser at the stockyards, and
this the usual and constantly recurring course, it was held
(pp. 398-399) that there was thus constituted "a current of commerce among the States," of which the purchase was but a part and incident. The same is true of
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 516, which likewise
dealt with the interstate shipment and sale of live stock.
The stockyards, to which such live stock was consigned
and delivered, are there described, not as a place of rest
or final destination, but as "a throat through which the
current flows," and the sale as only an incident which
does not stop the flow but merely changes the private
interest in the subject of the current without interfering
with its continuity. In Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263
U. S. 291, 309, a commodity produced in one state was
consigned to a local agency of the producer in another,
not as a consummation of the transit, but for delivery to
the customer. This court held that the intermediate
delivery did not end, and was not intended to end, the
movement of the commodity, but merely halted it "as
a convenient step in the process of getting it to its final
destination."
But here, the delivery of the plaster to the local representative or dealer was the closing incident of the interstate movement and ended the authority of the federal
government under the commerce clause of the Constitution. What next was done with it, was the result of new
and independent arrangements.
In respect of other materials of the character of those
on the selected list, brought from other states, it is enough
to say that the quantities were not only of little comparative consequence but it is not shown that they were subjected to the permit rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Second: That the permit requirement for California
produced materials interfered with the free movement of
materialsand supplies from other states. No doubt there
was such an interference, but the extent of it, being
neither shown nor perhaps capable of being shown, is a
matter of surmise. It was, however, an interference not
within the design of the appellants, but purely incidental
to the accomplishment of a different purpose. The court
below laid especial stress upon the point that plumbers'
supplies, which for the most part were manufactured outside the state, though not included under the permit
system, were prevented from entering the state by the
process of refusing a permit to purchase other materials,
which were under the system, to anyone who employed
a plumber who was not observing the "American plan."
This is to say, in effect, that the building contractor, being
unable to purchase the permit materials, and consequently
unable to go on with the job, would have no need for
plumbing supplies, with the result that the trade in them,
to that extent, would be diminished. But this ignores
the all important fact that there was no interference with
the freedom of the outside manufacturer to sell and ship
or of the local contractor to buy. The process went no
further than to take away the latter's opportunity to use,
and, therefore, his incentive to purchase. The effect upon,
and interference with, interstate trade, if any, were clearly
incidental, indirect and remote,-precisely such an interference as this court dealt with in United Mine Workers
v. Coronado Co., supra, and United Leather Workers v.
Herkert, 265 U. S. 457.
In the Coronado Case there was an attempt on the part
of the owners of a coal mine to operate it upon the "open
shop" basis. The officers and members of a local miners'
union, thereupon, engaged in a strike, which was carried
on with circumstances of violence resulting in the destruction of property and the injury and death of persons. A

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

81

Opinion of the Court.

conspiracy and an intent to obstruct mining operations
were established, and it was proved that the effect thereof
was to prevent a part of the product of the mine from
going into interstate commerce. It was held that this
would not constitute a conspiracy to restrain such commerce, in the absence of proof of an intention to restrain
it or proof of such a direct and substantial effect upon it,
that such intention reasonably must be inferred. It was
pointed out that there was nothing in the circumstances
or declarations of the parties to indicate that the strikers
had in mind any interference With interstate commerce
or competition, when they engaged in the attempt to
break up the plan to operate the mines with non-union
labor, and, conceding that the natural result would be to
keep the preponderating part of the output of the mine
from being shipped out of the state, the effect on interstate commerce was not of such substance that a purpose
to restrain interstate commerce might be inferred.
In the United Leather Workers Case there was a strike,
accompanied by illegal picketing and intimidation of
workers, to prevent, and which had the effect of preventing, the continued manufacture of goods by a trunk company. It was held that this was not a conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce within the Anti-Trust Act.
even though the goods, to the knowledge of the strikers,
were to be shipped in interstate commerce to fill orders
already received and accepted from the company's customers in other states, since there was no actual or attempted interference with their transportation to, or their
sale in, such states. There is in this case a complete review of the prior decisions on the subject, upon which the
Court concludes (p. 471):
"This review of the cases makes it clear that the mere
reduction in the supply of an article to be shipped in interstate commerce, by the illegal or tortious prevention.of

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

its manufacture, is ordinarily an indirect and remote obstruction to that commerce. It is only when the intent
or necessary effect upon such commerce in the article is
to enable those preventing the manufacture to monopolize
the supply, control its price or discriminate as between its
would-be purchasers, that the unlawful interference with
its manufacture can be said directly to burden interstate
commerce.
"We concur with the dissenting Judge in the Circuit
Court of Appeals when, in speaking of the conclusion of
the majority, he said: 'The natural, logical and inevitable
result will be that every strike in any industry or even
in any single factory will be within the Sherman Act and
subject to federal jurisdiction provided any appreciable
amount of its product enters into interstate commerce.'"
In its essential features, the present case is controlled by
this reasoning. If an executed agreement to strike with
the object and effect of closing down a mine or a factory,
by preventing the employment of necessary workmen, the
indirect result of which is that the sale and shipment of
goods and products in interstate commerce is prevented
or diminished, is not an unlawful restraint of such commerce, it cannot consistently be held otherwise in respect
of an agreement and combination of employers or others
to frustrate a 'strike and defeat the strikers by keeping
essential domestic building materiajs out of their hands
and the hands of their sympathizers, because the means
employed, whether lawful or unlawful, produce a like indirect result. The alleged conspiracy and the acts here
complained of, spent their intended and direct force upon
a local situation,--for building is as essentially local as
mining, manufacturing or growing crops,-and if, by a
resulting diminution of the commercial demand, interstate
trade was curtailed either generally or in specific instances,
that was a fortuitous consequence so remote and indirect
as plainly to cause it to fall outside the reach of the Sherman Act.

INDUSTRIAL ASS'N v. UNITED STATES.
64

83

Opinion of the Court.

The Government relies with much confidence upon
Loewe v. Lawlor,208 U. S. 274, and Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.443; but the facts there and the facts here
were entirely different. Both cases, like the Coronado
and the United Leather Workers cases and the present
case, arose out of labor disputes; but in the former cases,
unlike the latter ones, the object of the labor organizations
was sought to be attained by a country-wide boycott of
the employer's goods for the direct purpose of preventing
their sale and transportation in interstate commerce in
order to force a compliance with their demands. The four
cases and the one here, considered together, clearly illustrate the vital difference, under the Sherman Act, between
a direct, substantial and intentional interference with interstate commerce and an interference which is incidental,
indirect, remote, and outside the purposes of those causing it.
Third: That persons in other states were directly prevented or discouraged from shipping into California. In
respect of the alleged instances of direct interference with
interstate sales and shipments, the evidence is sharply
conflicting, with the preponderance in most cases, we
think, on the side of appellants. In many of them the
interferences had no connection with the "American
plan" or the system and efforts employed to effectuate it,
but were in furtherance of independent trade policies or
other isolated and disconnected purposes. One such case
was that of the Golden Gate Building Material Company,
consisting of five plastering contractors, where the basis
of the refusal to accept orders for supplies was a protest
by certain dealers that the company was buying for individual use and not for resale, and had been formed
merely to obtain dealers' prices. A class of interferences
strongly pressed in argument was that in respect of plumbing supplies, practically all of which were manufactured
outside of the State of California. Lists of plumbing con-

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

tractors who were not observing the "American plan"
were sent to the plumbing supply houses, and some of
them refused to sell materials to such contractors. That
there was, at least, a sympathetic connection between this
action and the " American plan " may be assumed, although plumbing supplies were not within the scope of'
the permit list. However this may be, and whatever may
have been the original situation, the practice was abandoned long before the present suit was instituted, and
nothing appears by way of threat or otherwise to indicate
the probability of its ever being resumed. Under these
circumstances, there is no basis for present relief by injunction. United States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251 U. S.
417, 444-445.
By the foregoing process of elimination, the interferences which may have been unlawful are reduced to some
three or four sporadic and doubtful instances, during a
period of nearly two years. And when we consider that
the aggregate value of the materials involved in these few
and widely separated instances, was, at the utmost, a few
thousand dollars, compared with an estimated expenditure of $100,000,000 in the construction of buildings in
San Francisco during the same time, their weight, as evidence to establish a conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce or to establish such restraint in fact, becomes so
insignificant as to call for the application of the maxim, de
minimis non curat lex. To extend a statute intended to
reach and suppress real interferences with the free flow
of commerce among the states, to a situation so equivocal
and so lacking in substance, would be to cast doubt upon
the serious purpose with which it was framed.
The decree of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Decree reversed.

