WILLIAM DANZER CO. v. GULF R. R.
628

Syllabus.

income. Neither the laws nor the contracts indicate that
the money subsidies were to be used for the. payment of
dividends, interest or anything else properly chargeable
to or payable out of earnings or income. The subsidy
payments taxed were not made for services rendered or to
be rendered. They were not profits or gains from the use
or operation of the railroad, and do not constitute income
within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment. See
Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 415;
Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 207; Merchants' Loan
& Trust Co. v. Smietanka, supra.
Judgment affirmed.
WILLIAM DANZER & COMPANY, INC. v. GULF &
SHIP ISLAND RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR'TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 346.

Argued April 28, 1925.-Decided June 8, 1925.

1. The right of a shipper to an award by the Interstate Commerce
Commission of the damages resulting from misrouting of his goods
by a carrier, is both created and limited by the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 635.
2. The limitation of the Act, (§ 16 (3)) that such complaints shall
be filed within two years from the time the cause of action accrues,
and not after, enters into the cause of action, so that lapse of that
time not only bars the remedy afforded but destroys the liability
of the defendant to the plaintiff. P. 636.
3. Section 206 (f) of the Transportation Act, 1920, providing: "The
period of Federal control shall not be computed as a part of the
periods of limitation in actions against carriers or in claims for
reparation to the Commission for causes of action arising prior to
Federal control", is not to be construed retroactively to recreate
a liability destroyed by lapse of the two year period, supra, before
the Transportation Act was passed; this would deprive the carrier
of property without due process, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. P. 637.
Affirmed.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining
a demurrer and dismissing the complaint in an action
against a carrier to recover damages awarded by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Brenton K. Fisk for plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. E. Eaton for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff in error brought this action to recover the
amount of damages awarded against defendant in error by
the Interstate Commerce Commission. August 30, 1917,
at Lyman, Mississippi, the Ingram-Day Lumber Company
delivered to defendant in error a carload of lath consigned
to the V. W. Long Lumber Company at Wilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania. The shipment was directed to be moved
via a line of the Norfolk & Western Railway Company
through Hagerstown, Maryland. On the day the shipment was made, plaintiff bought the lath, and in due time
received the bill of lading. Defendant misrouted the car;
and in consequence plaintiff suffered damages. February
14, 1921,-after the expiration of the two-year period prescribed for filing claims for damages,-plaintiff made complaint for reparation to the Interstate Commerce Commission against defendant and three connecting carriers.
May 18, 1922, the commission made its report and order.
The contention on the part of the carriers, that plaintiff's
right expired before the passage of the Transportation
Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, and was not revived by § 206
(f), was overruled. The commission's order authorized
and directed the defendant, on or before August 2, 1922,
to pay $307.15 with interest to plaintiff as reparation for
damages sustained in consequence of the misrouting. Defendant failed to pay the award, and this suit was brought,
May 7, 1923. The complaint set forth the facts above

WILLIAM DANZER CO. v. GULF R. R.
633

Opinion of the Court.

stated. Defendant demurred on the ground, among
others, that § 206 (f), as construed and applied by the
commission, was unconstitutional; and that so to renew
or revive the cause of action, which had expired before
the passage of the Transportation Act, was to take defendant's property without due process of law in contravention
of the Fifth Amendment. The district court sustained the
demurrer and gave judgment for defendant. The case
is here on writ of error. § 238, Judicial Code.
Plaintiff's cause of action was created and limited by
the Interstate Commerce Act. That act imposes upon
the initial and other carriers the duty to route and transport freight in accordance with the shipper's instructions.
§ 15 (8). And the carrier is liable to any person injured
for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of
a breach of that duty. § 8. Any person claiming to be
damaged by any carrier may make complaint to the commission. §§ 9, 13. "All complaints for the recovery of
damages shall be filed with the Commission within two
years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not
after

.

.

."

§ 16 (3).

"The period of Federal con-

trol shall not be computed as a part of the periods of
limitation in actions against carriers or in claims for
reparation to the Commission for causes of action arising
prior to Federal control." § 206 (f). If, after hearing, the
commission shall determine that complainant is entitled
to damages under the act, it is required to make an order
directing the carrier to pay the amount so awarded on or
before a day named. And, if the carrier fails to comply,
the person for whose benefit the order was made, within
one year from the date of the order, may file petition in
the United States district court, setting forth briefly the
causes for which he claims damages and the order of the
commission in the premises; and, subject to some provisions which are not important here, the suit proceeds
like other suits for damages. § 16 (2), (3).

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Plaintiff's right to file his claim with the commission
had expired several months before the passage of the
Transportation Act. But, if the period of federal control
is to be excluded, the complaint was filed within time.
During the period between such expiration and the passage of the Transportation Act, plaintiff had no right to
file a claim with the commission and had no cause of
action. It is settled by the decisions of this court that the
lapse of time not only barred the remedy but also destroyed the liability of defendant to plaintiff. Phillips v.
Grand Trunk Ry., 236 U. S. 662, 666; Louisville Cement
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 246 U. S. 638,
642; Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Wolf, 261 U. S. 133,
139. On the expiration of the two-year period, it was as
if liability had never existed. And this court applying
the rule of construction that all statutes are to be considered prospective unless the language is express to the
contrary or there is a necessary implication to that effect,
recently has held that § 206 (f) does not apply to causes
of action which were barred by a state statute of limitations before the passage of the Transportation Act. Fullerton Company v. Northern Pacific, 266 U. S. 435, 437.
Plaintiff suggests that the only period of limitations
applicable to claims for reparation is that prescribed by
§ 16 (3), and argues that, as the period of federal control
exceeded two years, § 206 (f) must be construed retrospectively or given no effect.
We need not re-examine the doctrine of Campbell v.
Holt, 115 U. S. 620, as it is plain that case does not apply.
That was an action on a contract for the recovery of
money. By a state statute of limitations, the right of
action had been barred. The statute was repealed before
the action was commenced. It was held that the action
could be maintained and that such repeal did not deprive
the debtor of his property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The decision

WILLIAM DANZER CO. v. GULF R. R.
633

Opinion of the Court.

rests on the conception that the obligation of the debtoi
to pay was not destroyed by lapse of time, and that the
statute of limitations related to the remedy only, and
that the removal of the bar was not unconstitutional.
The opinion distinguishes the case from suits to recover
real and personal property. That case belonged to the
class where statutory provisions fixing the time within
which suits must be brought to enforce an existing cause
of action are held to apply to the remedy only. But such
provisions sometimes constitute a part of the definition
of a cause of action created by the same br another provision, and operate as a limitation upon liability. Such,
for example, are statutory causes of action for death by
wrongful act; The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199, 214; and
those arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
c. 149, 35 Stat. 65. Central Vermont Ry. v. White, 238
U. S. 507, 511; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Burnette, 239
U. S. 199, 201; Kannellos v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 151
Minn. 157, 160; Jones v. D. L. & W. R. R. Co., 96 N. J.
L. 197. See also Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 454. This
case belongs to the latter class. Section 206 (f) will not
be construed retroactively to create liability. To give it
that effect would be to deprive defendant of its projerty
without due process of law in contravention of the Fifth
Amendment. Cf. Levy v. Wardell, 258 U. S. 542, 544;
Forbes Boat Line v. Board of Commissioners, 258 U. S.
338, 340; Union Pacific R. R. v. Laramie Stock Yards,
231" U. S. 190, 200; Winfree v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
227 U. S. 296, 301.
Judgment affirmed.

