MAY v. HENDERSON.
108

Statement of the Case.

8. If, for any reason, there occurs a vacancy in the cor.missionership when the Court is not in session, the same
may be filled by the designation of a new commissioner
by the Chief Justice.
9. All the costs of the cause, including the compensation and expenses of the commissioner, shall be borne in
equal parts by the State of New Mexico and the State of
Colorado.
MAY, AS TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF GEO.
W. COWEN CO., INC., BANKRUPT, v. HENDERSON, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 126. Argued March 5, 1925.--Decided April 13, 1925.
Within four months prior to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy
against it, the bankrupt made a general assignment for the benefit
of creditors to two trustees, one of whom, H., was the president of
a bank to which the assignor was then indebted on a promissory
note, and with which it carried a. deposit account. The account
was transferred, after the assignment, to the names of the trustees,
as such, and afterwards augmented by deposits of money collected
by them in carrying on the assignor's business. Partly before the
date of the bankruptcy petition and partly thereafter, H., having
control of the account, caused it to be applied to the note, with
the tacit consent of the other assignee. The bank, as well as the
assignees, had executed the creditors' agreement under which the
assignment was made, providing for a pro rata distribut'on among
all creditors and expressly extending the time of payment of all
indebtedness of the assignor for the period of one year.
Held, that the assignees were properly directed by the Bankruptcy
Court, in a summary proceeding, to pay over to the trustee in
bankruptcy an amount equal to the deposits, including the part
paid the bank before the filing of the petition as well as the part
paid thereafter. P. 115.
289 Fed. 192, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals, on petition to revise, reversing a judgment entered

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

by the District Court summarily in a bankruptcy proceeding, which required the present respondents to pay
over a sum of money to the trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. H. A. Jacobs, with whom Messrs. Henry G. W.
Dinkelspiet, G. B. Blanckenburg and Martin J. Dinkelspiel were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. A. A. DeLigne, with whom Mr. Archibald M.
Johnson was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review its action (reported
289 Fed. 192) on a petition to revise an order of the District Court confirming the order of a referee in bankruptcy, summarily directing the respondents to pay over
a sum of money to the trustee in bankruptcy.
On September 15, 1920, prior to but within four
months of the filing of the petition, the bankrupt made
to respondents, Henderson .and Scannell, a general assignment for the benefit of creditors. At the time of the assignment the assignor was indebted on a promissory note
in the sum of $15,000 to the Fort Sutter National Bank,
of which respondent Henderson was president, and in
which the assignor carried a deposit account. The referee
found, on sufficient evidence, that the respondents accepted the trust under the assignment to them and continued the business of the assignor until the appointment
of the receiver in bankruptcy on November 4, 1920, the
petition in bankruptcy having been filed on October 9,
1920. In the meantime, the deposit account of the assignor with the bank, with the knowledge and assent of
the assignees, was changed from the name of the assignor
to the names of the assignees, as "trustees," and further
deposits were from time to time made by them to the

MAY v. HENDERSON.
111

Opinion of the Court.

credit of the account, in the course of their management
of the business of the assignor. The assignor was duly
adjudicated a bankrupt and, thereafter, the trustee in
bankruptcy petitioned the Bankruptcy Court for an order
directing the respondents, as assignees, to account for and
pay over all moneys received by them from the date of
the assignment to the date of the appointment of the
receiver. Proceedings on the petition resulted in the
order of the District Court directing respondents to pay
over to the trustee an amount which would have stood
to the credit of the assignees in their deposit account with
the bank had the account not been closed in the following
manner:
On September 30, 1920, ten days before the filing of
the petition, the deposit account of the assignees with the
bank was debited, with the sum of $4,516.43, which
amount was credited on the note of the bankrupt held
by the bank, and on October 13, 1920, subsequent to the
filing of the petition, and on various dates thereafter to
and including October 25, 1920, further debits were made
in the account which were credited on the note. These
credits, including the first mentioned,' amounted to the
sum of $12,883.81, which was the amount directed to be
paid over by respondents by order of the District Court.
These debits and credits were made by direction of the
respondent, Henderson, who throughout the period in
question acted as one of the assignees and was also president of the bank. Although there was no explicit finding on the subject, the debits appear to have been made
with the tacit assent of Scannell, the other assignee, who
in any event appears to have left the management of
the financial operations of the assignees to Henderson
and made no objection or protest with respect to ihis
use of the account standing to his credit as an assignee.
We think that the finding of the Circuit Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

peals that this application of the bank deposit on the
note of the bankrupt constituted a "partial payment of
the note as fully as if the assignees had given their check
or withdrawn the money from the bank and paid it over
the counter" is correct, and that both the .assignees must
be held legally responsible for this result. Where one of
two co-trustees assents to a breach' of trust by the other
without objection, he is legally chargeable with liability
for the breach. Bermingham v. Wilcox, 120 Cal. 467,
472; Adair v. Brimmer, 74 N. Y. 539; Matter of Niles,
113 N. Y. 547; Hill v. Hill, 79 N. J. Eq. 521.
The referee found that respondent Henderson was at
all times from September 24, 1920, until the appointment
of the receiver in bankruptcy, in control of the assignees'
deposit account; and that he was the only officer of the
bank who at any time exercised any control over the
account, and that as president of the bank he at all
times until the filing of the referee's report, had personal
control of the funds deposited in the account; that the
original ledger sheet of the bank showing the account
standing in the names of the respondents as assignees,
was destroyed by officials of the bank some time after the
filing of the petition in bankruptcy and then an attempt
was made to restore this account to the name of the
bankrupt by rewriting the ledger sheets. He also found
that on and after September 24, 1920, both the respondents and the Fort Sutter National Bank, which with respondents had on that date executed the creditors' agreement under which the assignment to respondents for the
benefit of creditors was made, had actual knowledge of
the insolvent condition of the bankrupt.
On the petition to revise, the Circuit Court of Appeals
held that, when the money on deposit with the bankwas
applied on the note of the bankrupt, "the money passed
into the possession and under the control of the bank and
out of the possession and beyond the control of the re-

MAY v. HENDERSON.
111

Opinion of the Court.

.; that the funds in the bank are not
spondents
the funds of the president nor are they subject to his
order and control, and an order directing him to pay over
the money is not an order against the bank and is not
binding upon the bank." The court accordingly held
that the bank, which was not a party to this proceeding,
held the funds received by it in its own right adversely
to any claim of the assignees or the trustee in bankruptcy
and could not be reached by a summary proceeding and
it reversed the judgment and order of the District Court.
It is well settled that property or money held adversely
to the bankrupt can only be recovered in a plenary suit
and not by a summary proceeding in a Bankruptcy Court.
Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18; First National Bank of Chicago v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 198
U. S. 280; Gailbraithv. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46. But property held or acquired by others for account of the bankrupt is subject to a summary order of the court, which
may direct an accounting and a payment over to the
trustee or receiver appointed by the Bankruptcy Court.
White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Mueller v. Nugent, 184
U. S.1; Babbittv. Dutcher, 216,U. S.102; Chicago Board
of Trade v. Johnson, 264 U. S.1. Such is the rule with
respect to assignees for the benefit of creditors within
four months of filing of the petition. In re Stewart, 179
Fed. 222; In re Rathman, 183 Fed. 913; In re Neuburger,
Inc., 240 Fed. 947; In re Diamond's Estate, 259 Fed. 70,
74, and see Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188. See
Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor and Gailbraith v. Vallely, supra,where, however, the jurisdiction was defeated
by the adverse claim of the assignee arising before the
filing of the petition; and see Randolph v. Scruggs, 190
U. S.533, as to the nature of the title of the assignee for
the benefit of creditors when bankruptcy ensues. See also
Taubel, etc. Co. v. Fox, 264 U. S. 426, 433 and note.
Courts of Bankruptcy do not permit themselves to be

OCTOBER TER'f, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

ousted of jurisdiction by the mere assertion of an adverse
claim. The court has jurisdiction to inquire into the
claim for the purpose of ascertaining whether the summary remedy is an appropriate one within the principles
of decision here stated. Mueller v. Nugent, supra;
Schweer v. Brown, 130 Fed. 328, 195. U. S. 171; Hebert
v. Crawford, 228 U. S. 204; In re Ellis Bros. PrintingCo.,
156 Fed. 430. It may disregard the assertion that the
claim is adverse if on the undisputed facts it appcars to
be merely colorable. In re Weinger, Bergman & Co.,
126 Fed. 875; In re Rudnick & Co., 158 Fed. 223; In
re Ransford, 194 Fed. 658; Michaelis v. Lindeman, 196
Fed. 718.
The petition upon which this proceeding was intitiated
was in the usual form and prayed that the respondents
be required to account for all moneys and properties coming into their hands as assignees or trustees under the
assignment for the benefit of creditors. Such was their
duty. Having assumed to take possession of the property of the bankrupt for its account., it was their legal duty
to turn the property or its proceeds over to the trustee
in bankruptcy or to account for their inability to do so
by showing either a disposition of it in performance of a
legal duty assumed toward the bankrupt or the bankrupt's
trustee or by clothing themselves with the protection of
a claim adverse to the bankrupt which was not merely
colorable. As found by the Court, respondents came into
the possession of moneys of the bankrupt which were by
them placed on deposit to their credit as trustees or assignees for the benefit of creditors. The result of this
transaction was that neither the bank nor the assignees
held any specific money for account of the bankrupt and
its creditors. They were creditors of the bank and the
bank was their debtor. Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank,
2 Wall. 252; Phoenix Bank v. Risley, 111 U. S. 125.
We are not therefore dealing with money in the possession

MAY v. HENDERSON.
11i

Opinion of the Court.

of the assignees or the bank in any literal sense, but the
credit as a mere chose in action was held by the assignees
for account of the bankrupt and they were bound to account for its proper disposition as for any other property
coming into their hands.
The several amounts debited to the account, with the
assent or connivance of the assignee subsequent to the
filing of the petition, fall clearly within the rule that, as
to property in the hands of the bankrupt or held by others
for his account, "The filing of the petition is a caveat to
all the world and in fact an attachment and an injmction." Mueller v. Nugent, supra; Lazarus v. Prentice,
234 U. S. 263; Knapp & Spencer Co. v. Drew, 160 Fed.
413; In re Denson, 195 Fed. 854; In re Leigh, 208 Fed.
486; Gunther v. Home Ins. Co. et al., 276 Fed. 575; Matter of R. & W. Skirt Co. et al., 222 Fed. 256; Reed v.
Barnett Nat. Bank, 250 Fed. 983; and see Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman Lum. Co., 222 U. S. 300. See Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102. In consequence, any person acquiring an interest in property of the bankrupt or
his assignees for the benefit of creditors, adverse to the
creditors, after the filing of a petition with notice of it,
may be directed to surrender the property thus acquired
by summary order of the Bankruptcy Court. In re Denson, supra; In re Rudnick, supra; and see White v.
Schloerb, supra.
The rule is the same when a creditor secures payment
of his debt from the bankrupt's estate after the filing of
the petition. A summary order may be made directing
repayment of the money to the trustee in bankruptcy.
Knapp & Spencer Co. v. Drew; In re Leigh; Matter of
R. & W. Skirt Co., supra; In re Columbia Shoe Co., 289
Fed. 465. A like rule has been applied where a bank secures payment of its debt by setting up its lien or right of
counterclaim against a deposit account of the bankrupt
or the bankrupt's assignee, created subsequent to the filing

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

of the petition. Michaelis v. Lindeman, 196 Fed. 718;
Reed v. Barnett Nat. Bk., supra. See Farmers & Mechanics B.ank v. Wilkinson, Trustee, 266 U. S. 503. Any
other rule would leave the Bankruptcy Court powerless
to deal in an effective way with those holding property
for the bankrupt who, pending the bankruptcy proceedings, wilfully dispose of it by placing it beyond the reach
of the court. Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188, 196.
We do not think, however, that respondents stand in
any better position with respect to the first debit of
$4,516.43 which was made a few days before the filing of
the petition. The creditor's agreement, under which respondents were appointed assignees, and which was signed
by them and by the Sutter National Bank, provided for
only a pro rata distribution among creditors :and expressly extended the time of payment of all indebtedness
of the bankrupt for one year from the date of the creditors' agreement, which was dated September 15, 1920.
The findings of the referee and the supporting evidence
leave no doubt that Henderson, who with the assent of the
co-assignee, Scannell, was in active control of the account
both as an assignee for the benefit of creditors and for
the bank as its president, directed this and all later debits
to be made in the account, in fraud of the rights of creditors whom he assumed to represent.
There cannot, we think, be any pretense that the bank
could assert a lien or counterclaim before the filing of the
petition, in the face of its extension of its note by the
creditors' agreement (Fifth National Bank v. Lyttle, 250
Fed. 361; Heyman v. Third National Bank, 216 Fed. 685),
or at any time, in view of its transfer of the account to
trustees for the benefit of creditors under the agreement
signed by it. Fitzgeraldv. Bank, 64 Minn. 469; Lynman
v. Bank, 98 Me. 448. The findings of the referee and the
evidence leave no doubt that the surrender or abandonment of their bank account to the bank by the assignees

MAY v. HENDERSON.

ill

Opinion of the Court.

and its attempted application by the bank to the payment of its note was collusive and without any substantial basis of legal right. At most it was a clumsy, ineffectual and fraudulent effort to divert the funds of the
bankrupt to the payment of a favored creditor. While
it is now settled that the claim of an assignee for the
benefit of creditors, of the right to charge in his account
expenses incurred or expenditures made prior to the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy, is an adverse claim which
cannot be adjudicated in a summary proceeding (Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18; Galbraithv.
Vallely, 256 U. S. 46), we think the rule cannot be extended to a case-such as this where the claim is merely
colorable *and on its face made in bad faith and without
any legal justification.
Nor is it any answer to such a proceeding that the diverted assets are no longer under the control of the assignees. They do not discharge the duty to account by
showing that they assented to a cancellation of their bank
account as assignees, and its application on an indebtedness of thebankrupt to the bank. The duty of a fiduciary
to account for property entrusted to his care is fulfilled
by delivery of the property, but if he has put it out of
his power to deliver it, he may nevertheless be compelled
to account for its worth. United States v. Dunn et al.,
post, p. 121. He is subject to the summary order of the
Bankruptcy Court to restore the property to the bankrupt's estate. If he has sold it or mingled it with his own,
he may be compelled by summary order to restore the
value of the property thus wrongfully diverted. In re
Denson, supra, and see Bryan v. Bernheimer, supra, at
p. 197.
For that reason it is not necessary for us to enquire
into the legal consequences which flow from the findings
of the referee tending to show that the bank- account .was
at all times under the control of Henderson, acting in

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

the dual capacity of assignee of the debtor and president
of the creditor bank, or to ascertain whether such a situ,ation falls within the rule that one acting in one capacity,
subject to a summary order of the court, may not relieve
himself from the duty to pay over money on a summary
order by setting up that, although the money is still
under his cor trol, he holds it in a different capacity.
See Smith v. Longbotton & Son, 142 Fed. 291. We rest
our decision rather on the duty of assignees, for the benefit of creditors, to account in a summary proceeding for
the property which they have received within four
months of the bankruptcy and to make restitution of the
value of the property of the bankrupt which they have
dissipated without a colorable claim of right.
On the argument, respondents relied upon numerous
cases in the District Courts and Circuit Courts of Appeals to the effect that the court will not in a summary
proceeding make an order requiring a bankrupt to pay
over money to his trustee unless the bankrupt's ability
to comply therewith is plainly and affirmatively shown.
American Trust Co. v. Wallis, 126 Fed. 464; In re Berman, 165 Fed. 383; In re Sax, 141 Fed. 223; In re Goldfarb Brothers, 131 Fed. 643; Epstein v. Steinfeld, 210
Fed. 236; In re Nisenson, 182 Fed. 912; In re Stern, 215
Fed. 979. But we think that a bankrupt who is shown
to have turned over generally his assets and property to
the receiver or the trustee in bankruptcy, is in a different
situation from one not a bankrupt who is urlder a duty
to account in a summary proceeding. A court of bankruptcy should not make useless orders. If the bankrupt
has turned over his property generally to the Bankruptcy
Court and is not shown to possess or control the specific
property which is the subject of summary order, there
may be a presumption that any order will be groundless.
No such presumption obtains with respect to respondents.
They have not shown that they are insolvent or in other

