346

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

26S U. S.

annulled, and we cannot conclude that, considering its history, the general terms therein disclose a congressional
intent absolutely to exclude the petitioners from entry.
In a certain sense it is true that petitioners did not come
"solely to carry on trade." But Mrs. Gue Lim did not
come as a "merchant." She was nevertheless allowed to
enter, upon the theory that a. treaty provision admitting
merchants by necessary implication extended to their
wives and minor children. This rule was not unknown
to Congress when considering the Act now before us.
Nor do we think the language of § 5 is sufficient to defeat the rights which petitioners had under the treaty. In
a very definite sense they are specified by the Act itself
as "non-immigrants."
They are aliens entitled to enter
in pursuance of a treaty as interpreted and applied by this
court twenty-five years ago.
The question propounded by the court below must be
answered in the negative.
CHANG CHAN, WONG HUNG KAY, YEE SIN JUNG
ET AL. v. NAGLE. COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 770.

Argued April 17, 20, 1925.-Decided May 25, 1925.

1. Chinese women, being themselves ineligible to citizenship, do not
become citizens of the United States by marrying American citizens.
Rev. Stats. § 2169; Act of Sept. 22, 1922, c. 411, 42 Stat. 1022.
P. 351.
2. Chinese women who, before the date of the Immigration Act of
1924, married American citizens of the Chinese race permanently
domiciled in this country, were debarred by the Act from coming
here to join their husbands, (no treaty right being involved,) since
§ 13 (c) forbids admission of aliens ineligible fo citizenship, with
certain exceptions which do not include such wives. P. 352.

CHANG CHAN v. NAGLE.
346

247

Argument for Appellants.

3. Such Chinese wives, coming here to join their husbands, are immigrants as defined by § 3 of the Act. P. 352.
4. That consular officers must issue them visas does not signify that
such wives must be admitted-in view of § 2 (g) of the Act, expressly declaring that an immigration visa shall not entitle an immigrant to enter if upon arrival he is found inadmissible under the
immigration laws. Id.
5. The provision of § 4 of the Immigration Act, 1924, classifying
wives and minor children of citizens of the United States residing
here, etc., as non-quota immigrants, cannot be incorporated among
the exceptions of § 13 (c) upon the theory that it was omitted by
oversight. Id.
6. The hardships of a case, and suppositions of what is rational and
consistent in immigration policy, cannot justify a court in departing from the plain terms of an immigration act. P. 353.

QUESTION certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
arising upon appeal of a decision of the District Court,
(see Ex parte Chan Shee, 2 Fed. (2d) 998), refusing relief
by habeas corpus to the appellants, who were the husbands of four Chinese women detained by the immigration
authorities, and the wives themselves.
Mr. Frederick D. McKenney and Mr. George A. McGowan, with whom Messrs. Jackson H. Ralston, John L.
McNab, Roger O'Donnell, George W. Hott, W. J. Peters,
M. Walton Hendry, J. P. Fallon, 0. P. Stidger, W. G.
Becktell and Gaston Straus were on the brief, for
appellants.
A study of the provisions of the Act shows that by
clause (a) of § 4, using the broadest language, the unmarried child under 18 years, or the wife, of an American
citizen is a non-quota immigrant. To such it is the duty
of the consular officer to issue a visa. The wife, for
instance, does not have the right of entry because related
to a non-quota immigrant or a non-immigrant, or because
of being excepted from the operation of any other law
regulating or forbidding immigration, as provided in § 5,
but because she is the wife of an American citizen and
her domicile is the domicile of her husband.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

268 U. S.

Under § 8 the consular officer, on satisfactory proof
being furnished him that the applicant is entitled to be
regarded as a non-quota immigrant, may issue an immigration visa to her.
In § 9, clause (b), any citizen of the United States
claiming his wife under provisions of subdivision (a) of
§ 4, may file a suitable petition, and under clause (e) of
the same section the Commissioner-General, finding the
facts to be true and that she is entitled to be admitted to
the United States as a non-quota immigrant under subdivision (a) of § 4, shall inform the Secretary of State
of his decision, and the Secretary of State shall then authorize the consular officer with whom the application
for the immigration visa has been filed to issue it, the
only limitation upon the right to enter, consequent upon
such action, being that if she seeks to enter as a non-quota
immigrant she shall not do so if, on arrival, she is not
found to be that sort of immigrant.
By § 13, clause (a.), the Chinese wife of an American
citizen has a right to admission as a non-quota immigrant
if specified in the immigration visa as such and otherwise admissible under the immigration laws, the latter
clause finding its natural purpose in the provisions as to
health and character, of broad general nature.
We are next confronted with clause (c) of § 13, prohibiting, not the granting of visas, which in themselves
recognize a right to admission, but prohibiting admission
except under the provisions of sub-divisions (b), (d),
and (e) of § 4 or because not an immigrant as defined
in § 3.
Although the right to admission has been fully recognized three or four times over through the provisos directing the granting of visas, it is now argued that, if a visa
must be granted, and such right cannot be disputed, yet
the wife of an American citizen leaving China in the high
hope of accompanying or joining her husband is to be

CHANG CHAN v. NAGLE.
346

Argument for Appellants.

turned back on reaching an American port because "ineligible to citizenship." The two interpretations cannot
stand. The right to papers authorizing admission is as
strong in itself, as stated in the statute, as any power-of
rejection, because ineligible to citizenship, can possibly be
believed to be. From the reports of the committees and
the statements of the committee chairmen on the floor of
the House, it is evident that Congress did not intend by
this legislation to exclude from American soil the wife of
any American citizen.
The only doubt arises under the Act because, while in
§ 13 express reference is made to subdivisions (b), (d)
and (e) of § 4, by some-apparent slip no reference was
made to subdivision (a) of § 4 referring to the unmarried
children under 18 years or the wife of a citizen of the
United States.
That there was nothing but a slip and that the intent
of Congress was unmistakably shown by all the prior
sections to which we have alluded is only made the
stronger by reference to subdivisions (d) and (e). Under (d) we find that a Buddist missionary, or a Chinese
instructor may come into the United States and following his occupation remain here for the remainder of his
life with his wife and children under 18 entering with or
following him.
For decisions of lower courts as to right to admission
of Chinese-born wives of American citizens, see Ex Parte
Goon Dip, 1 Fed. (2d) 811; Case of Chiu Shee, 1 Fed.
(2d) 798.
On the status of the Chinese wife of an American-born
citizen before the Immigration Act of 1924, see Tsoi Sim
v. United States, 116 Fed. 920; Looe Shee v. North, 170
Fed. 566; Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S., 460;
Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299; Tnker v. Colwell, 193
U. S. 473; Anderson v. Watt, 130 U. S. 695; Maynard v.
Hill, 125 U. S. 211.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

Under the law and the decisions as they stood up to
July 1, 1924, there could have been no doubt as to the
right of admission to the United States of the petitioners,
and the burden rests upon the Government of showing
that the Act manifests a clear intent to change this
condition.
We should not submit this matter without strongly
emphasizing the fact that the husbands of the women in
whose behalf the writs of habeas corpus in these matters
are sought are citizens of the United States permanently
residing and domiciled therein, and that their rights as
such citizens are before this Court. To hold that these
women are debarred from admission to the United States
under the Immigration Act of 1924 .means that their
husbands are to be permanently separated from them unless they abandon the country of their birth and citizenship, and take up their residence in some other land
which permits their wives to reside with them.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
the Solicitor General was on the brief, for appellee.
Mr. Henry W. Taft filed a brief as amicus curiae by
special leave of Court.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNoLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, Chang Chan and three others, claiming to
be native born citizens of the United States permanently
domiciled therein, sought release from detention by the
Immigration Commissioner of four young Chinese women,
alleged to be their lawful wives wedded in China prior
to July 1, 1924. On that day the young women were
on the high seas as passengers upon the President Lincoln. Arriving at San Francisco, July eleventh, without
immigration vis6s as provided for by § 9, Immigration
Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 153, they sought and were

CHANG CHAN v. NAGLE.
346

Opinion of the Court.

finally denied permanent admission. In support of this
action the Secretary of Labor said"Neither the citizenship of the alleged husband, nor
the relationship of the applicant to him, has been investigated for the reason that even if it were conceded that
both elements exist she would still beinadmissible, as Section 13 of the Act of 1924 mandatorily excludes the wives
of United States citizens of the Chinese race if such wives
are of a race or persons ineligible to citizenship, and the
Department has no alternative than to recommend exclusion."
The court below inquires, Jud. Code, § 239: "Should
the petitioners be refused admission to the United States
either, (a) because of the want of a vis6; or (b) because
of want of right of admission if found to be Chinese wives
of American citizens?"
This cause involves no claim of right granted or guaranteed by treaty and is therefore radically different from
Cheung Sum Shee et al. v. John D. Nagle, etc., this day
decided, ante, p. 336.
The excluded wives are. alien Chinese ineligible to citizenship here. Rev. Stat. 2169; Act May 6, 1882, c. 126,
§ 14, 22 Stat. 58, 61. Notwithstanding their marriage to
citizens of the United States they did not become citizens
and remained incapable of naturalization.
Prior to September 22, 1922, Rev. Stat. 1994 applied.
It provided"Any woman who is now or may hereafter be married
to a citizen of the United States, and who might herself
be lawfully naturalized, shall be deemed a citizen."
Since that date c. 411, 42 Stat. 1021, 1022, has been in
force. It providesSEc. 2. "That any woman who marries a citizen of
the United States after the passage of this Act, or any
woman whose husband is naturalized after the passage, of
this Act, shall not become a citizen of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

268 U. S.

by reason of such marriage or naturalization; but, if eligible to citizenship, she may be naturalized upon full and
complete compliance with all requirements of the natu"
ralization laws.
Sec. 13(c), Immigration Act of 1924, declares"No alien ineligible to citizenship shall be admitted
to the United States unless such alien (1) is admissible as
a non-quota immigrant under the provisions of subdivision (b), (d), or (e) of section 4, or (2) is the wife, or the
unmarried child'under eighteen years of age, of an immigrant admissible under such subdivision (d), and is accompanying or following to join him, or (3) is not an immigrant as defined in section 3."
Subdivisions (b), (d) and (e) of § 4 apply to immigrants previously lawfully admitted, immigrants who
seek to enter as religious ministers or professors, and to
students. They are not controlling here. An immigrant
is defined in § 3 as "any alien departing from any place
outside the United States destined for the United States,"
with certain exceptions, none of which describes the present applicants.
Taken in their ordinary sense the words of the statute
plainly exclude petitioners' wives.
We cannot accept the theory that as consular officers are
required to issue vis6s to Chinese wives of American citizens therefore they must be admitted. A sufficient answer
to this is found in § 2(g)"Nothing in this Act shall be construed to entitle an
immigrant, to whom an immigration visa has been issued,
to enter the United States, if, upon arrival in the United
States, he is found to be inadmissible to the United States
under the immigration laws."
Nor can we approve the suggestion that the provisions
contained in Subdivision (a.) * of § 4 were omitted from
* "An immigrant who is the unmarried child under 18 years of age,
or the wife, of a citizen of the United States who resides therein at
the time of the filing of a petition under section 9."

