OF THE UNITED STATES.

the owners of the Fanny, then the freight torthe 1-824.
hides, excluding the freight on the liguum vif
Danforth
V.
to be deducted from the .appraised value of said
We.
hides.

[LociL LAW.]
D-4.FORTH V. WFkR.
The acts of Assembly of North Carolina, passed between the years
1788 and 1789, invalidate all entries,, surveys, and grants; of land
ivithin the Indian territory, which now forms apart of the teritory
of the State of Tennessee. But they do not avoid entries com"mencing without the Indian boundary, .and running into it, to far
ps respectsthaip'.tion 6f the land A.ituhte
hout their terriory.
The act of North Carolina, of 1784, authorizing the remoying-.of
warrantzs which had beeh Iocaed ppon lnds prevwously, takhn up,
so as to place them upon vacandlands, did not repeal".ty 1rplication, the previously existing laws, Pvhich probibitgd iurveys of lal
within the Indian boundary. The lands to which such removals
are made, must be lands previously subjected to entry and survey.

ERRQR to the Circuit Court of Wdst Tennessee.
This cavise was argued 4t the last term,. and Fe. 1
again argued at the present term, by the Attornz&jGeneral 4nd Mr.' wann,, for the plaintiff, naa'
by Mr.. Will4.ms, for the defendanX.
a They cited 2 Tenn. Ref. 157.

N.

..Rep. in Confer. 440.

i Tenn. Rep. so.

b He cited Prestdn v. Browder, 1iFWat Rep. 115.
v. Thomas, Id. 155.

VoL. IX.

85

Dahforih

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUtT

1824.
Dawfbith

y

Wear.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is one of those cases which not unfrequently occur, in which, for want of the scrutinizing 6ye of the party interested
to maintain a
judgmeit below, the Court there is n'Mdc to appear to have given a decision very different from
that actually rendered. But, whatever may be
the opinion of this Court, independently of the
record, we are concluded by the bill of exceptions, and must decide according to those questions which the record presents.
I The parties are citizens of the same State, but
jurisdiction is given to the Courts of the United
States, by the fact.of their claiming title to the
land in controversy, under grants from different
States, to wit, the States of North Carolina and
Tennessee.
The facts stated in the bill of exceptions, taken
in connexion with the laws of the two States and
public treaties,, sufficiently exhibit to this Court,
that the grant from the State of North Carolina,
under which.the plaintiff made title, although commencing in, and embracing, a tract of country
over which the Indian title had been extinguished,
yet extended into, and included, a large body of
land, over which the Indian title existed at the time
of the survey, but has since been extinguished.
Had the case, then, set forth that the lan.d covered by the defendant's grant lay within the country,
which was subject to the Indian title, at the time
of Danforth's grant, and bore date subsequent to
the extinguishment of the Indian title, it would,

OF THE U nTED STATES.

probably, have exhibited a true view of the case
which the Court below was called on to decide.
But, so fat from exhibiting this State of the
case, the facts admitted, not only do not confine
the controversy to the tract of country that lay
within the Indian boundary, but, taken in iheir
literal meaning, expressly admit the contrary.
The vords of the admission are, "that the defendant was in possession of tke land claimed by
the plaintiff." And when we come to inquire
what land the plaintiff claims in the suit, we find
it to be the whole 100,000 acres, "the beginning

corner of which, and a portion of the land covered
thereby, lay in a tract of country to which the
Indian title had been extinguished, prior to making
the survey and issuing the grant.
Here, then, we have the parties, contrary to all
the probable truth of the case, contending about a
title to land lying without the Indian boundary
at the time it was surveyed for the plaintiff in
ejectment.
But we must take the case as we find it on the
record, and decide accordingly.
IIappears, then, that the plaintiff's grant was
rejected in the Court below, and not permitted to
be read to the jury. This rejection could only be
sustained upon the ground that it was wholly vcid,
-or wholly inadmissible in that cause. For if the
grant was good but for an acre of the land claimed
in the action, the Court could not have withheld it
frm.the jury..
As to lands surveyed within the Indian boundaTY, this Court has never hesitated to consider all

675
1824.
Danforth
7.

Wear.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

676
1824.
Danfrorth

such surveys and grants as wholly void; but an
total rejection of the :grant, according to the

Sthe

1,. case stated, goes to its validity as to that part-of

Wear.

the land also which lay without the Indian boundary, there must be- found some other ground for
sustaining the decision, than that which invalidates
surveys executed in the Indian territory.
In the present case, there can be but two such
grounds 9upposed to exist; either that there was
no law au.thorizing the survey in any part of the
land granted, although without the Indiain boundary, or, that the whole was affected by the illegality, of that part which extended, within that
boundary.
-It!was in the first of these alternatives that the
Court held the -case under advisement from the
last term. In the case of Danforth v. Thomas,
(1 Wheat. Rep. -155.) this Court threw out the
suggestion, that a grant of land must have some
sanction created by statute. As relates to the
present subject, it did not appear that any law had
been passed, subsequent to the extinction of the
Indian title,. by which this recent purchase was
authorized to be taken up under W'arrants.
But the Court, upon consideration; are satisfied,
that under the laws and practice affecting the
lands in qudstion, the extension of the county line
subjected the lands purchased. of the Indians, to
the general land laws of the State. By the 3d
seetion of Gbe act of 1777, entries are permitted
within any county of the State, and'the creation
oi counties has always,, in that State, been held

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

677-

to-bring the vacant lands within the county under - 1824.
the operation of that act..
•
Dan forth
On the second iilternative, it was contended in
v.
'Wear.
inception
its
in
not
was
the'survey
that
argument,
invalid; that it was' good as to part, because out
of the Indian boundary;,afid -as to the residue,
was made good under the general provisions of
the laws of North Carolina in favour of removed
warrants; that, at most, it was only suspended by
the Indian title, and attached legally and 'effectually to the soil, as soon as the interposing title
of the Indians was removed.
In the two cases 9f Presto&v. Browder, and
Panforth'v. Thomas, decided in this Court in
1816; (1 Wheat. Rep. 115.155.) the inviolability
of the Indian territory is fully recognised: It was
the law.of the land, as adjudged ift the case of
Avery v. Strother, decided- in' the North Carolina
Court of Conference, in-180. Indeed, the State
of No th Carolina appearq to have been sedulous
in her efforts to prevent encroachments upoft the
Indian hunting grounds, and -her laws-are express
and pointed in invalidating entries and graits
made within such reservations.
ttit the present-grant commences in h .traot of
country over which the Indian title was extinct;
and whatever might be the state qf right, were the
beiinning. corner within that boundary. and a
portion of the land beyond it, we see nothing in the
lawa of-Nortli Carolina or Tennessee, to avoid a
grat in the whole, when it com"mences legally,
and'POnly coverl in part the-lands &n which surveys are prohibited. Forthat part, therefore, which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. lies without the boundary, the grant must be held
r
Dan forth

v.

Wear.

valid, and this alone entitles the plaintiff to a re-

versal. But as the cause must be again tried below, and the question on its validity as to the residue, as presented by the bill of exceptions, has
been argued fully, and must arise again, we will
now consider it.
The points made by the plair'tiff's counsel are
stated by himself thus :
1. That the State of North Carolina had a right
to issue the grant in question, and the Court erred
in not suffering it to be read.
2. That the grant was good as to that part of
the land to which the Indian title was extinguished.
3. That the grant, oeing founded on a removed
warrant, was good for the whole land.
To the first and second of these positions we
have expressed our assent, and only the third remains to be disposed of,
Tis rests-upon the sixth section of the act of
North. Carolina, of 1784, entitled, "an act to prevent the issuing of grants," &c.
By this section, the iight is given to remove
warrants which have been located upon lands previously taken up, so as to place them upon vacant
lands; and the supposed operative words, in the
present instance, are these : '- Shall be at full liberty toi remove his or their warrants to any other
lands, on which no entry or entries have been previously specially located ; and the Surveyor, or
Surveyors, are hereby authorized and required to
survey and make return thereof, in like manner as
for other returns and surveys, as by law dieccted."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-Reference was'had to the act of-1786, and the 1824.
cession act-on the same
- • subject, but they add no- Danforth
."'
thing to the provisions of the act of 1784.
The effort is to construe this act as virtually re- Wear.
pealing the previously existing laws, that prohibit
surveys of .land within the. Indian boundary,
and as 6pening the whole State to the right of removing warrants.
We are of opinion, that there are several considerations, which repel this construction.
It is obvious, that the lands to which such removals -are authorized, must be lands.previousik"
subjected to entry-and survey, otherwise the absurdity occurs, of a reservation in favour of entries
and surveys which the existing laws have declared
to be nullities.
Again; "the Surveyors are authorized and required to survey and make return, in like -manner as
for other surveys and returns is by law directed."
But does any law authorize or enjoin a survey of
the Indian country ? or shall this act be construed
to enjoin as a duty, that which an existing act prohibits under a penalty?
These considerations remove all doubt, on the
correct construction of the law respecting removed
warrants; but if doubts did exist, the general pblicy and course of -legislation of che State would
forbid such a construction. The purport of the
law is, to authorize removals to that land only,
which might be at the time legally entered and
surveyed by other warrants.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'ine'

V.
Stewbx-t.

We are of opinion; that there is error in the
judgment of the Court below, in refusing to let the
grant be read to the jury.
Judgment reversed.

(SURETY.)
MILLER V. STEWART

and others.

The contract of a surety is to be construed trictly, and is not to be
extended beyond the fair scopp of its terms.
Where a bond was given, conditioned fdr the faitbful performance of
the' duties of the office bf Deputy Collector of direct tads for
eight certain townships, and the instrument of the appointmont,
referred to in the bond, was afterwards altered, 'so us to extend to
bnother township, without the consent of the sureties, held, that

the surety was discharged from his responsibility for moneys sutsequentl collected by his principal.

THIS was a case certified from the Citcoit
Court for the District of New-Jergey, 'upon a
certificate of a division bf opinion of the Judgoa
of that Court. It was an action of debt upon
bond, and the material facts disclosed in the pleadings were, that the plaintiff, Ephraim Miner;.being
Collector of the direct taxes and internal dutifp
for tho fifth Collection District of New-Jersey, by
an *instrument of appointment, under seal, and
pursuant to law, appointed Stephen C. Ustick his
Deputy Collector, for eight townships within his

