OF THE UNITED STATi'S:

1824.
[INSTANCE COURT.

SLAVE TRADE ACTS.]

The EmILY and The CAROLINE, BROADFOOT,
Claimant.
A libel of information does not require all the technical precision o
an indictment at common law. If the allegations describe the
offence, it is all that is necessary; and if founded upon a statute,
it is sufficient if it pursues the words of the law.
An information, under the Slave Trade Act of 1794, c. 187. rxi.1
s. 1., which describes, in one count, the two distinct acts of preparinga vessel and of causingher to sail, pursuing the words of
the.law is sufficient.
Stating a charge in the alternative, is good, if each alternative constitutes an offence for which the thing is forfeited.
Under the above act, it is not necessary, in order to incur the forfeiture, that the vessel shoali be completely fitted and ready for sea.
As soon as the preparations have proceeded so far, as clearly to
manifest the intention, the right of seizure attaches.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of South Carolina.
In each of these two cases, a libel of information was filed in the District Court of South Carolina, against the ship Emily and the brig Caroline, under the 1st section of the act of the 22d
of March, 1794, c. 187. [xi.] prohibiting the carrying on the slave trade, from the United States to
any foreign place or country; and on the 2d section of the act of the 2d of March, 1807, c. 77.
[Ixvii.] to prohibit the importation of slaves inio
the United States, after the Ist day of January,
1808. Each libel contained three counts, two
upon the act of 1794, and ofie upon that of 1807.

The Emily
and the
Caroline.

ASES IN TILE SUPREMLE COURT

1824.

which are the same in their provisions, -so far as
r.spects this case; and the libels described the
offence in Ehe alternative, pursuing the words of
Car"lie. the law, "that the said vessel was fitted out within

Tlhe Emily
And the

a port or place of the United States, to wit, the
port of Charleston, Oa caused to be sailed.from a
port or placp within the United States, to wit, the
said port of Charleston, &c. for the purpose, of
carrying on trade or traffic in slaves," &e. A decree of condemnation was pronounced, in each
t.ase, in the District Court, which was affirmed in
the 'Circuit Court, and the causes were brought
by appeel to this Court.
Feb. 7th.

The causes were argued by Mr. Harper, for
the appellant, and by the Attorney-General and
Mr. M'Duffie, for the respondent.
On the part of the appellant.it was contended,
(1) That the informatiofis were fatally detective;
inasmuch as in all the counts, they charge alternatively, .thecommission of one or the other of two
distinct and separate acts, each of which constitute under the statute of Congress, a distinct
substantive offence; thus leaving it wholly uncertain to which of the charges the 'claimant was to
direct his defence and proof." (2.) That the proof
did notsustain ank of the counts, because it showed
that neither ofbthe vessels was actually sent from
t4 port of. Charleston, before the seizure; and
did' not show that eitl.er of them was so fitted out
a The Caroline,. 7 Crmch, 496.,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

$8,

there, previous to the seizure, as to be in a condi- 1824.
tion to be sent. That the offence of fitting out, The
Teni
Emily
was not complete when the seizure took place,

and that a mere inceptive fitting out, or an attempt
to fit out, did not -constitute the offence created
by the acts of Congress.
For the respondents, it was argued, (I.) That
the charge, with the alternative, was sufficient,
both of the alternatives being illegal. The note
of the reporter, correcting the account of the decision, when one of these cases (the Caroline).
was formerly before this Court, was referred to,
in order to show that the Court* did not rean to
decide in that case, that stating the charge in'the
alternative, would not-have been sufficient, if each
alternative had constituted an offence, for which
the vessel Would have been forfeited by the law.
The informations had been amended, and studiously avoided the difficulty heretofore made on
account of the alternativeness of the charges.
As they now stand, they are in donformity with the
-language of the statute which creates the forfeiture, and though still alternative in form, they are
not s6 in substance; since both the facts charged
are equally penal, and the latter part of the section merely makes either of the facts evidence of
the illegal intention.. The.Legislature has thought
fit to. de'part,, in this instance, from the general
principle of-penal enactments; it aims at punisha The Caroina, 7 Crdndl, "496. Note of errati at the beginning of the v~lame.-

and the

Caroline.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. ing the intention, and makes either of thie 'two
'-O'
4-facts evidence of "the illegal intention. Both,
The"Emi~y
cnd the then, being illegil, the information has correctly
Wlo.e, charged the offence, (2.)' The law requires nothing more to-'consummate the offence, than distinct acts, showing the quo animo. The offence
is complete, when there is any overt act clearly
indicative of the attempt to commit it. If this'
were -notthe case, and the crime" were not to be
considered as consummated until the preparations
were complete, it would be impossible toi define
what was a complete preparation. Many articles
might be purposely left unfinished, and completed
at sea; so that the construction conter.ided for,
would furnish an -effectual recipe for a fraudulent
evasion -ofthis part of the law.
Feb m4a.

Mr. Justice THomPsoN delivered the opinion of
the Court.
These casps come before the Court o n appeals
from decrees of the Circuit Court, for the District
o South Carolina, affirming the decrees of the
District Court, by. which," the vessels in question
were condemned as forfeited, under the laws of the
United States, in relation to the slave trade.
The information, in both cases are the same, ex-cept as to the name and description of the vessels;
and-the proofs differ in no respect, but in the state
of preparation in-which the vessels were found at
the time of seizurd; but this circumstance, according to, the view taken by this Court of the law,
wider Which the-eforfeitures have been.incorred;
is unimportant, dnd cannot vary the -result. The'

OF THE UNIIED STATES.

.585

cases have been argued together, and it is unne- 1824.
cessary that they should be considered separately The Emily
and the
by the Court.
Camlin,.
secfirst
the
upori
founded
are
The informations
tion of the act of the 22d of March, 1794, c. 187.
[xi.] to prohibit the. carrying on the slave trade
from the United States to ani foreign place or
country; and on the second section of the act of
the 2d of LMarch, 1807, c. 77. [Ixvii.] to prohibit
the importation of slaves into the United States
after the 1st of January, 1808. Each information
q.ontains three counts; two upon the act of 1794,
and one upon that of 1807. These acts, however,
are-precisely "the same in.those parts which are
brought under consideration in these cases, and
will not require to be separately noticed.
The objections on the part of the claimant, to the
decree of the Circuit Court, are,
1. The insufficiency of the informations; and
2. That the proofs fall short of what is required, under the statutes, to work a forfeiture of the
vessels.
The law (2 U. S. L. 'T83.) declares, that no
citizen of the United States, or any other person
coming into, or residing within the same, shall, for
himself or any other person whatsoever, either as
master, factor, or owner, build, fit, equip, load, o"
otherwise prepare, any ship or vessel, within any
port or place of the United States, nor shall cause
any ship or vessel to sail from any port.or plaee
within the same, for the purpose of carrying on
any trade or traffic in slaves, &c. And if any vessel shall be sofitted out as aforesaid, for the said
TOL. IX.

49

CIO

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

purpose, or shall be caused to sail'so as aforesaid,
such ship or vessel shall be forfeited, &c.
'every Emily
Tlhe
and the The first branch of the prohibiting part of this secCaroline., tion, is very broad and comprehensive, using various terms appropriate to the preparation for a
voyage. "Shall not build, fit, equip, load, or
otherwise prepare any ship," &c. In the forfeiting part of the section, these various terms are not
repeated, but doubtless intended t6 be co-extensive, and included under the words sofitted out
as aforesaid. Under this law, then, the forfeiture
is incurred, either byfitting out, or, in other words,
preparing, a vessel, within the United States ; or,
by causing' a vessel to sail from the United States
for the purpose of carrying on the:slave trade :
two distinct acts, either of which draws after it
the same consequence, the forfeiture of the vessel.
The informations embrace both acts in the same
count, pursuing the words of the law ; and it is
contended that, on this account, they are fatally
defective ; that one orthe other of the acts should
have been alleged, and not both stated in the alternative, as has been done. Objections of this
kind, made at so late a period, if not entirely precluded, arenot entitled to much indulgence ; they
ought, if well founded, to be made at an earlier
day, - when the information might be amended,
and great expense and delay avoided. But the
exception would, at no time, be available. In
admiralty proceedings, a libel in the nature of an
information, does not require all the foimality and
technical precision of 'anindictment at common
law. If the allegations are such as plainly and
.1824.

OF THE-4VNITED STATES.

38'7

distinctly to-mark the offence, it is all that is ne- 1824.
cessary. And where it is founded
upon
a statute, -The Emily
•
•
it is sufficidnt if it pursues the words of the law. and the
And this is not at all at variance with what fell Caroline.
from the Court, when these cases were formerly'
before it, as explained by the note referred to
by the Reporter, (7 Cranch,496, anA,note at the
beginning of te vol.) which 'states, "that the
Court did not mean to decide, that stating the.
charge in the alternative would not have been
sufficient, if each alternative had'constituted an
offence for which the vessel would have been forfeited." In the information how before the Court,
it is so stated. •One alternative is,fitting out, and
the other, causipg the vessel to sail ; either of
which, ifpfoved, would induce a forfeiture. It is
said, that thiq mode of alleging two separate and
distinct offences, leaves it wholly uncertain to
which of the ac usations the defence is to be directed. This objection, if entitled to -consideration, would apply equally to an information laying

each offence. in a separate count.- This might,
undoubtedly, be done; and yet no one interested
in the proceedings could know, to which accusation to direct his defence. .This kind of uncertainty is no objection,' even to an indictment at
common law. Distinct offences may be laid in
separate counts, and the accused may not know
upon which he is to be tried. The objection, if
.available at all, must go the full length of limiting
every information to a single offence. This, we
think, is not requiried by any principle of justice.

I CASES IN TUlE SLI'REME CObltl

1824.
T
The Emily
and the

Carolin.

or sanctioned by any rule of practice, applicable
to Admiralty proceedings.
2.. It is, in the second place, contended, that
the proof does not stvain any of the counts, or
show that any aots have been done, which can,
under a just cobistruction of the law, work a forfeiture of the vessels. These vessels, although
cleared out, were seized before leaving the port
of Cnarleston; of course there can be no proot'
applying to one of the offinces laid in the information, iez. eausing the vessels to sail from a port
or plaoe within the United States, &c. The proof
is only applicable to the offence, which relates to
the preparation of the vessels. And to incur the,
forfclthre under this branch of the act, it is said,
the vessel must be completely fitted and ready for
sea; that no state of preparation, short of this, will
iatisfy the terms of the law, or furnish any certain
rule by which to-determine when the offence has
been committed, and the penalty incurred. We
-cainot, however, think that even applying to this
law the most rigid rules of construction applicable
to penal statutes, it will admit of the interpretation
contended for on the part of the claimant. In
construing a statute, penal as well as others, we
must look to the object in view, and never adopt
an interpretation that will defeat its own purpose,
if it will admit of any other reasonable construction.
The object in view, by the sectidn of the law
now under consideraiion, was to prevent the preparation of vessels in our own ports, which were
intended for the sla'e trade. Hence is connected

-,)Y TH[E UNrILD STATES.

Z389

with this preparation, whether it consists in build- 1824.
ing, fitting, equipping, or loading, the purpose The Emily
for which the act is done. The law looks at the and the
intention, and furnishes authority to take from the Caroline.
offender the means designed for the perpetration
of the mischief. This is not punishing, criminally, the intention merely; it'is the preparation
of. the vessel, and the purpose for which she is to
be employed, that constitute the offence, and
draws after it the penalty of forfeiture. As soon,
therefore, as the preparations have progressed, so
far as clearly and satisfactorily to ihow the purpose for which they are made, the rightof seizure
attaches. To apply the construction contended
for on the part of the claimant, that the fitting' or
preparation must be complete, and the vessel
ready for sea, before she can be seized, would be
rendering the law in a great measure nugatory,
and enable offenders to elude its provisions in the
most easy manner. The intention or purpose for
which the vessel is fitting, must be made, uut*so
as to leave no reasonable doubt as to the object.
This is matter of proof, and, generally speaking,
to be collected from the kind of preparation that
has b~en inade. It is unnecessary to rotic& minutely the evidence taken in these cases; It shows
conclusively, aid beyond the possibility of doubt,.
that both the Emily and the Caroline were fitting
out for. the slave trade. Iinthis the Witnesses,
both on the part of the United States and the
claimant, concur. All the prepaia:tions were such
as were peculiarly adapted to what the witnesses
call slaving vessels, and not to those for the mer-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

chant service. The ship carpenter, a witness on
the part of the claimant, and who, of all others,
The Emily
and the
was best qujalified to give information on this subCaroline. ject, says, the vessels were fitting in a manner
similar to that in which vessels generally are for
the slave trade ; that the Emily was almost complete, and the work in which he~was engaged on
the Caroline, was of the same character and description. There was no attempt whatever by the
claimant, to explain the.object of these peculiar fitments, or to show that the destination of the vessels was other than that of the slave trade. Nor
has his counsel, on the argument here, set up for
him any such pretence. We may, therefore,
safely conclude, that the purpose for which these
vessels were fitting, was the slave trade; and if
so, the right of seizure attached. We can discover no sound reason for delaying the seizure until
the vessels were on the point of sailing. It could
only be necessary to render more certain, from
their- complete fitment, the purpose for which
they were to be emplpyed; and if that be satisfactorily Lscertained, at an earlier stage of the preparation, the delay would be useless, and evasion
of the law rendered almost certain.
Decrees affirmed.

