OF THlE UNITED STATES.

483

fbr which patents had been previously issued, or 1824.
which haa been previously surveyed." The pro- "'I
V.
hibition respects future locations, not future surTayloe.
locathis
shiwwhen
veys; and the case does not
tion was Made. It might have been made previous
to the passage of the act of 1807; and the pre-,
sumption of law is, that it was made before that
time, since the patent is presumed to be valid,
until the contrary is shown.
On both points, the Court is of opinion that the
law upon this case is for the 15laintiff, and that the
judgment of the Circuit Court, in favour of the
defbndants, must be reversed, and judgment entered for the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed.

RIGGS V. TAYLOE.
If a party intend to use a written instrument in evidence, he must
produce the original, if in his possession. But if it is in the possession of the otherparty, who refuses to produce it, after notice,
or if the original is lost or destroyed, secondary evidence (being
the best which the nature of the case allows) will be admitted.
The party, in such case, may read a counterl art; or, if there is no
counterpart, an examined copy; or, iftno such copy, may give
parol evidence of the contents.
Where a writing has been voluntarily destroyed, for fraudulent purposes, or to create an excuse for its non-production, secondary evi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Riggs
V.

Tayle.

dence of its contents is not admissible. But where the destruction
or loss (although voluntary) happens through mistake or accident,
such evidence will be admitted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.

Fb. 96th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Key,, for the
plaintiff, and by Mr. Hay," for the defendant.

March 16th.

Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action on the case brought by th
plaintiff against the defendant in the Circuit Court
of the District of Columbia, upon a contract in
writing, entered into between the plaintiff and defendant, for the sale of bank stock of the Central
Bank of Georgetown. At the time that this contract was entered into, each party had a counterpart of the contract, and the plaintiff alleging the
loss of his, he gave notice to the defendant to produce, upon the trial, the one which hb, the defendant, had; but the defendant declined producing
it, stating -that he had lost his also. In conseqluence. of these .losses, the plaintiff, upon the
trial of.the cause, offered to prove, by a person
who was a witness to the contract, and hJd subsetibed it as such, the contents of the contract,
and tW entitle himself to give this testimony, made
the- following affidavin- "The plaintiff in this
cause makes oath, in relation to the memorandum
a He cited 2 M'Naily on Evid. 344. i Phil. on Evid. 167.
s T.& 51.

s Dall.415,

.OF THE-UNITED STATES.

85

of agreement between the defendant and himself, 1824.
relative to the stock in the declartion mentioned, "
'
Riggs
that- his impression is, that he tore up the same.
V.
after the transfer" of' the stock, believing that the Tay]=
statements upon. which the contract had been
made were correct, and that 'he woald have no
further use for t~e paper. He is not certain that
be did tear it up, and does not recollect doing so,
but such is his impression. If he did not tear it
up, it has become lost or mislaid; and that he has
searched for it among his papers repeatedly, and
cannot find it." The defendant objected to tiis
testimony, and insisted that no evidefnce ought to
be given of the contents of the said contract.
The COurt sustained the objection; whereupon
a verdict and judgment was given for the defendant. The plaintiff filed a bill. of exceptions to
the opinion of the Court, excluding the evidence
aforesaid from going to the jury, and the cause
is brought up to this Court by a writ of error.
The only question to-be decided by this Court
is, whether the Circuit Court erred.in rejecting
the said evidence..
Whether the plaintiff in the cause wasp competent witness to prove the lbss or destruction of
the written agreement, referred to in the bill of'
exceptiobs, need not be inquired into, ab it was
not objected to in"
the Court below, and the question was waived by the defendat'e Qounsel in this
Court.
The admissibility of evidence of the loss of a
deed or other written instrument, is addressed to
the Court, and not to the jury.

CASES IN TIE SUPJIME COURT

1824.
R
Riggs

V.
Tayloc.

The generdl rule of evidence is, if a party intend to use a deed, or any other instrument, in
evidence, he ought to produce the original, if he
has it in his possession; but if the. instrument is
in the possession of the other party, who refuises
to produce.it, after a reasonable notice, or if the
original is lost or destroyed, secondary-evidence,
which is the best that the nature of the case allows,
will in that case be admitted. (Phillipson Evid.
399.) The party, after proving any of those circumstances, to. account for the absence of the
original, may read a counterpart, or, if there is
no counterpart, an examined copy, or, if there
should not be an examined copy, he may give
parol evidence of the contents.
It is contended by the defendant's counsel, that
the affidavit is defee ive, not being sufficiently
certain or positive, as to the loss of the original
writing. The affia'it only states his inpression
that he tore it up ; and if lie did not tear it up,
it has become lost or mislaid ; that this is in the
alternative, and not certain or positive. We do
not concur in this reasoning. An impression is
an image fixed in the mind, it is belief; and believing the paper in question was destroyed, has
been deemed sufficient to let in the secondary
evidence. (Phillipson Evid. 399. 7 East, 66.
8 East, 284.) The alternative alluded to is, "if
he- did not tear it up, it has become lost or mislaid." Niow, if he tore it up, it was destroyed;
if it was not destroyed, it was lost or mislaid; in
eithei event, it was not in the power or possession of the affiant, which. we think, is suffi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

•487

ciently certain and positive to let in the secondary 1824.
evidence.
Riggs
v.
It is further contended, that it appears from the
plaintiff's own showing, the destruction or loss of T7o
the writing was voluntary and by his default; in
which case, he ought not to bepermitted to prove
its contents. It will be admitted, that where a
writing has been voluntarily destroyed, with an
intent to produce a wrong or injury to the opposite party, or for fraudulent purpps~s, or to ereate
an excuse for its nob-production, in such cases the
secondary procif ought not to be received; but in
cases where the dstruction or loss (although voluntary) happens through mistake or accident,the
party cannot be charged with default. In this
case, the affiant states, that if he tore up the paper, it was from a belief that the statements upon
which. the contract had been made were correct
and that he would have no further use for the
paper. In this he was mistake. If a party should
receive the amount of a promissory note in bills,.
and destroy the note, and it was presently discovered that the bills were forgeries, can it be said
that the.voluntary destruction .of the note would
prevent the introduction of evidence to prove the
contents thereof; or, if a party should destroy
one paper, believing it to be a different one, will
this deprive him of his rights'growing out of the
destroyed paper? We think not. Cases of voluntary destruction of papers, arising from mistake,
as well as from accident, might be multiplied ad
infinihum. In this case, the evidence offered was

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that of the subscribing witnpss to the writing; it
the best evidence that the nature of the case
admitted, which was in the possession or power
Tayloe. of the party. This Court is, therefore, of opinion,

1824.
Swas
Riggs
V.

the Circuit Court .erred in refusing to let.the said
evidence go to the jury..
It was further contended by the defendant's
counsel, that the declaration is ra.dically defective,
stating no cause of action whatever.
If there had been a single count only, in the
declaration on the written contract, it might be
necessary to go into an examination of this pointi
but as there is a count for money had and re-,
ceived, and money paid.and advanced, which, if
the evidence had been permitted to go to the jury,
and they had found their verdict on this count, it
would have been clearly good, we deem it immaterial to decide it.
Judgment reversed, and a venire facias de
2wvo awarded.

