O

THE UMTFED STATL.S.

445

1824.
[LocAL Liv.]
.A

JOHN MASON,

Appelldnt,

V.

survivor of'George Deneale
and John Muncaster, CHURCH-WARDENS OF

JOHN MUNCASTER,

CHRIST Cluicu, FAIRFAX PARISir, ALEXANDRIA, and the said JoHN MUNCASTER and ED-

MUND J. LEE, PRESENT CHURCH-WARDENS 0F
Tile SAID CHURCII, and others, Rcspondents.
A bill in equity, brought to rescind a purchase made under the decr.
of this Court, in Tt-rrdt v. Taylor, (9 Cranclz 45.) upon the
ground that the title to the property was defective, and could nbt
be made good by the Vestry and other persons, Aho were parties to
the former suit. Bill dismissed.
The Vestry of the Episcopal Church of Alexandria, now known by
the name of Christ's Church, is the regular Vestry, in succession,
of the parish of Fairfax, and, in connexion with the Minister, has
the care and managenenit of all the temporalities of the parish
within the scope of their authority. A sale by them of the Church
lands, with the assent of the Minister, under the former ddcree of
this Court, conveys a good title to the purchaser.
Although the Church- fardens of a parish aw not capable of holding
ltnds,' and a deed to them and their successors in office, for ever,
cannot operate by way of grant:.yet, where it contains a covenant
of general warranty, binding the grantors and their heirs for ever,
it may operate by Wiay of esloppel, to confirm to the church and its
privies the perpetual and'beneficial'estate in the land.
The parishioners have, individually, no right or title to the glebe
lands; they are the property of the parish in its aggregate or corporate capacity, to.be disposed of, for parochial purposes, by the
Vestry, who are the legal agents and representatives of thp parish.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.

M~ason

v"

Muncaster.

446-

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
This was a bill brought by the appellant, Ma40ab son, to rescind a purchase made by him, jointly
V.

with W. Jones, of. a part of the glebe land which

Mmcaster. was sold under the decree of this Court, in the
case of Terrett v. Taylor, reported in the 9th
vol. of Mr. Cranch's Reports, p. 43. After a
confirmation by the Court below, of the report of
the sale inade by the commissioners for this
purpose, and after various intermediate, negotiations, the appellant gave his promissory notes to
John Muneaster, one of the respondents, and
George. Deneale, since deceased, who were at
the time Ch'urch-Wardens of the Episcopal Church
of Alexandria, in payment of part of the purchase money; and judgment having been obtained
against the appellant, upon these notes, in the
Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, the
appellant also sought by his bill a perpetual injuiction of this judgment. The grounds of the
prayer of the bill were, that the title of the property was substantially defective, and could not
be made good-by the Vestry* an'd other persons,
who were parties 'tQ- the -bill in the former suit;
that the same bill containied a material mistepre-'
sentation of the facts respecting the title, of which
the appellant was, at the time of the'purchse,
wholly ignorant, and of which he had but recently
acquired full knowledge."
Upon the final hearing in the Court below, the
bill was dismissed, and the cause was brought by
appeal to this Court.
a The essential paris of the pleadings and evidence will be
found fully stated in the opinion of the Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The cause was argued by the Attorney-Gere- 1824L
ral and Mr. Key for the appellant, and by Mr.
V.
iSwann and Mr. Lee for the respondents.
Munca.&
Feb. 5th.

On the part of the appellant it was contended,
(I.) That the respondents had no title, legal or
equitable. It was admitted to be the rule of
equity, that where a 'vendorcomes in for a specific
execution, he is bound to how a title free from
all doubt; but where the vendee is the plaintiff, and
comes in to rescind the sale, he must show the title
to bebad. The onusprobandiwas, therefore; on the
appellant, and the counsel argued at large, to show
that the conveyance from Daniel Jennings and wife
to the Church-Wardens, in 1770, was insufficient to
pass his title in fee for the benefit of the parish. The
exposition of this deed, in the former case of Terrett
v. Taylora merelyestablishes, that inasmuch as the
Church-Wardens were not a body corporate capable of holding lands, this deed did not operate' by
way of grant to convey the title : that its only legal operation results from-the covenant of warranty, which creates an estoppel in favow of the
church and its privies; i. e.' that the legal title
still remains in Jennings and his heirs, but that
they are estopped by the warranty from the.assertion of that title against the church and its privies.
Now suppose that the respondents are the regular
successors of-the Vestry and Church-Wardens of
Fairfax, still they have'no title to the land; all
that they. h6ld is an estoppel against Jennings and
a 9 Crand, 52, 53.

448
1824.
Mn
"
V.

CASES IN T1E SUPRIE ,COURT

those claiming under him. What title have they
which they could assert against a disseizor, or one
claiming under a title foreign to that of Jennings?

Muncaster. A mere estoppel against a particular grantor and

aid his heirs, constitutes neither a legal nor an
equitable title to lands. This Court declares that
,the deed conveys no title, but merely an estoppel
by force of the-clause of warranty. "But, even admitting that this es.toppel is a title, it belongs to all
the episcopal members of the parish of Fairfax,
whose rights are precisely the same as if no part of
the parish had ever been separated from Virginia. It
is quite clear, that the former decision of the Court
proceeded on the ground of the plaintiffs in that suit
being considered as the regular successors of the
original cestui que trusts; and, that, if it had appeared otherwise, and that there was another
church in the parish, or other parishioners who
were not represented by them, the decree would
1have been different.a To connect themselves with
this deed, therefore, the parties are bound to show
that they are the successors. If they are not, the
connexion between them is broken, and they have
no title under it. The parish, of Fairfax forms
about one half of the county, which is equally divided into the parishes of Fairfax and Truro; the
former comprehending the northern half,the latter
the southern. This parish had but one. Vestry,
but it was the Vestry of the. wholeparish, elected
by .the.whole body of the parishioners, charged
with the common interests of the whole parish,
a 9 Cranch,52, 53.

44.9

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and of both the churches equally. The funds
with which the glebe wa bought were levied
from the whole parish, and consequently belonged
to the whole parish.; and in the case of a vacancy
of the parsonage, this Court say, the parish was
entitled to the profits of the glehe. It therefore
follows, that previous to the separation of a part
of this parish from the State of Virginia, its interests were one and identical throughout. No
part of the parishioners could, by themselves, do
any act affecting the interests of the whole, without giving the whole a voice in the measure, either
by themselves or their representative agents. It
is laid down, that althoiigh the Church of England,
in its aiggregate description, is not deemed a corporation, yet the Church of England, of a particular parish, is a corporation for certain purposes,
although incapable of asserting its rights and
powers, except through its parson regularly inducted.a And in the judgment of this Court in
the former case, it is strongly intimated, that the
corporate character conferred on the Vestries in
1784, could be taken away at pleasure, without
any fault in the corporation.' If then the parish
of Fairfax was a corporation, its name becomes
a part of its identity, and those who call the-mselves successors, must have the same name. If
it was a corporation, all the corporators have equal
rights, and no part of them could exercise the
rights which belong to the whole. But, suppose
a Town. of Pawlet v. Clark, 9 CranchJ, 292.325.
b Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 51, 52.
VoL. EX.
57

1824.
Mason

v.
Muncaser.

450

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Mason

v.

it not to have been a corporation, it was h definite
' body; it had a unity and identity which separated
it from all others. It had a technical identity."

MuncMIr. It consisted of all theEpiscopal mem!bers
within

the terxitorial limits. It was represdnted by a
Vestry chosen by the voice of the whole of that
parish, 'inwhich election no other parish could ilterfere. Those,who claimed to be. their successors, must, before the separation of the District
of Columbia from the State of Virginia, have
shown these qualifications; and it is' etermined
that the separation has produced no chhnge in the
unity and identity of the parish, qo far as the
rights of pr9perty are concerned.' The Vestry
and uhurch-Warderrs of the Episcopal Church of
Alexandria, cannot be the regular successors of
the Nestry and Church-Wardens qf the parish of
Fairfax, because they haiT a mcsunct name, which
it would have been needless to assume, unless
from a consciousness of a distinct-origin and ,nature.. In fact, they have VLdifferent origin, different powe", and different duties. In. the period
which intervened from 1796 to 1803, there was
no Incumbent. What then wore the rights of'the
parties? This Court has. answered, that " the
fee remained in abeyance. .andthe profits of the
-parsonage were to be taken by the parish, for their
own use."d What parish ? Most certainly the
a I Henn. Stat. at large, 218.
6 Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranic, 53.
c Terrett v'. Taylor, 9 Crancd, 4?. Westobv. Hunt, 2 Nasm.
Ref. 502. See also, 1 Tuck. Rl. g1am. Part 2. App. 11S.

OF THE UNITED STATES

parish of Fairfax, to which it belonged. The
Vestries chosen in 1804, aqd subsequently, cannot
be deemed the Vestries of the parish"of Fairfax,
but must be -considered as the Vestries of the
Episcopal Church of Alexandria, because, in the
parish books, the entries constantly style them the
Vestry of the Protestant Episcopal Church at, or
in., or of, Alexandria, and not the Vestry of the
parish of Fairfax. The congregation of Christ's
Church actually separated themselves, in 1803,
from the parish of Fairfax, and formed. a distinct
Episcopal Church; and the elections were made
by subscribers and contributors to the Episc6pal
Church in Alexandria, and not by the parishioners at large of the parish of Fairfax.
2. This defect in the title being thus made out,
it follows that the appellant has a right .to require
that the contract should be rescinded, unless there
be some special objection'to preclude him. As to
the sale being under a decree, the English practice on this subject relates to objections arising
on the absti'act which is presented to the purchaser. But defects subsequently discovered, may
be objected, and if it appear/ that the vendor can
make no title, the bill will be entertained.
As to notice, there is no proof of actual nQtice;
and the circumstances are not sufficient to infer
constructive notice. Nor has the objection to the
title been varied by taking possession. The doctrine is, that if the vendee has knowledge of the
defects before he takes possession, it is considefea
as a waiver of the objection, and it will be found
that all the-cases turn upon this distinction.

1824.
mum

v.
-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COU'I

45Z
1824.

On the part of the respondents, it was insisted,
1.
That the appellant had full notice, eiti'er acMason
v.
tual or constructive, at the time of the sale, of
Bluncaster. all the facts and circumstances of which he now
seeks to avail himself, in order to rescind the sale.
The proceedings in the firmer case wer.e alone
sufficient to charge im with notice.
2. This being a judicial sale, under a decree,
the party was bound to have applied to the Court
below, either before confirmation of the sale, or
afterwards, to rescind the sale, and cannot now
maintain an independent bill for that purpose, the
effect of which would be, collaterally, to set aside
the sale, as it stands confirmed by the report."
3. The contract has been executed on the part
of the appellant, by taking possession of the land,
and it is now too late for .him to make any objection to the sufficiency of the title.b
4. But a careful examination would show that
there was not any defect in the title. The former
decision of this Court had put at rest the question
as to tle-suffieiency of the deed from Jennings,
to pass his title to the Church-Warndens, for the
benefit of the parish. It was there determined
that the conveyance could not operate by wny of
grant, but might operate by way of estoppel, to
confirm to the church, and those -claiming under
it, the perpetual estate in the land.
a 1 Ponbl. Eq. 371. Note 6. 1 .Atk. 489.
3 P. rs. 220. 306. 1 Rev. Code, 80. S. 34.

3 P'es.jr. 333.

b 1 "Ves.jr.221. 226. 3 P. Wims. 191. 4 Dess. Ch. Rep; 13d.
12

8e.25.

c:Terrett v. Taylor, 9"Cranch, 53.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The present Vestry of the Episcopal Churcfi at 1824.
Alexandrila, called Christ's Church, are the legal successors of the Vestry of the parish of Fairfax.
v.
From the year11765 until 1801, the town of Alex- Muncaster.
andria was a part of the county of Fairfax, and
the parish of Fairfax. After the year 1792, the
Vestry met exclusively in Alexarldria; the congre.
gation -at the Falls Church, by degrees became
extinct; and the Vestry of the parish, with the
church at Alexandria, has been constantly kept
up, whilst the congreghtion that used to assemble
at the Falls Church has ceased to exist. The
consequence is, that the glebe land belongs tQ the
Alexandria congregation, as much as if the two
congregations had agreed to meet in the church
at Alexandria, and had disposed of the other.
There. never was, and there never could be, two'
Vestries in the parish, that is, one for each church.
Since the year 1776, there have been no compulsory means used for the support of the church,
and it has rested on the voluntary contributions of
the parishioners; yet every, thing that has been'
done in respect to the property of the church,
shows conclusively the regular succession of this
Church and Vestry, as the Church and Vestry
of the parish of Fairfax. Tle Vestry ha.. been
elected by the rhembers and contributors to the
church, but the right of voting did not belong to
the parishioners generally, it was confined to
those members and contributors. At the same
time, no inhabitant of the parish has been denied
the privilege of becoming. a contributor, with its
consequent right of voting. All parties who had

CASES IN THE SUPREMIl

1824.
Mason

V.

UOURI'

any title to the property, -were before the Court in
the former case, in which the sale was decreed.a
It was unnecessary to make the whole body of

Aluneaster. parishionars parties to that suit. They have
not
individually any right or title to the property. It
is the property of the parish, and the Vestry are
the legl agents and representatives of the parishioners, with authority to administer and dispose of it.
Feb. 201h.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opiniom of the
Court.
Upon tile very voluminous pleadings in this
case, assuming more" the shape of elaborate arguments, than the simp~le and precise allegation
of facts, which belong to Chancery proceedings,
the principal questio.s discussed have been,
1. Whether the Vestry of the Episcopal Church
of Alexandria, now known by the name of Christ's'
Church, is the regular Vestry in succession of
the parish of Fairfax. - 2. Whether the existence
of anothar parish church, called the Falls Church,
within the same parish, has any material bearing
upon the title, either as to malting parties, or
settling the right to the glebe. 3. Whether the
appellant had full notice of the true nature of tile
title before the purchase, and so took it with its
infirmities, if any such existed. '4. Whether, this
being the case of a judicinl sale under a decree,
the party was not bound to have applied to the
Court below, before confirmation of the sale, or
a 3 Ves.jr. 505

OF THE UNITEDrSTATES.

455

atterfards, to -rescind the sale; and can 'now 1824.
maiitain an independent bill for• that purpose, the Mason
v.
effect. of such bill, being collaterally to set aside
the sale," as it stinds Confirmed by the report. Muncaster
Anotherpoint was made at the bar, as to the stqfficienoy of the conveyance by Jennings to the
Church-Wardens, in 1770, to pass his title in fee
for .the benefit of the parish. But that point was
put at rest, in the case of Terrett v. Taylor, and
is not now open for discussiond
a. Upon this point, the Court says, in'the former case, "Upon
inspecting the deed, which is made a part of the bill, and bears
date ir 1770, the land appears to bave been conveyed to the

grantees, as Church-Wardens of Fairfax, and to their successors
in that office, for ever It is also averred in the bill, that the
plaintiffs, together with two, of the defendants, (who are ChurchWardens,) are the Vestry of the Protestant Episcopal Church,
commonly called the Episcopal Church of Alexandria, in
the parish of Fairfax, and that the purchase was made by the
Yesrxy of'said parish and church, to whom the present Vestry are
the legal -and regular successors in the said Vestry ; and that the
purchase was made fiw the use and benefit of the said church in
the said parish. No statute of Virginia has been cited, which
i;rates Church-Wardehs. a corporatiob for the purpose of holding

lands; and at common law, their capacity was limited to personal
estate. (1 BL Corn. S94. Bro. "A4br. Corp. 76. 84. 1 ROl.
Abr.-g3. 4. 1Q. Com. Dig. tit. Esdlse, F. S. 12 Hen. VIi.
27. b. 13 Hent. VII. 7. 9. b. 37 Hen. VI. 6. 30. 1 Burns' Eccles.
-.Law, 290. Gibs. 215.) It would seem, therefore, that the present deed did not operate by way of grant, td-convey a fee to the
Church-Wardens and their successors; for their successors, as

such, could not take : nor to the Church-Wardens in their natural
capacity-; for ' heirs' is not in the deed. But the covenant of
general warranty in the deed, binding the grantors and their heirs
for ever, and warranting the lands to the Church-Wardens and

their successors for ever, may well operate, by way of estoppe
to confirm to the church and its privies the perpetual and beneficial estate in the land." 9 CrancM, 52, 5S.

456
1824.
-Mason
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

If the first question is decided against the plain.tiff,. it will be unnecessary to consider the other
question, for it is not denied, that the Vestry of the
uncaster.• parish of Fairfax sufficiently represent the whole
parish for all the purposes of the original bill, and
that both by th6 -fofmer laws of Virginia and the
canons of the Episcopal Church, they, in connexion
with theMinister, have the care and management
of all the temporalities of the parish within the
scope of their authority. To the consideration of
this question. the attention of the Court has been
mainly directed; and it is now my duty to explain
the grounds upon which we have come to the conclusion, that the Vestry of the Episcopal Church of
Alexandria is the regular Vestry in succession of
the parish of Fairfax; and. being so at the commencement of the former suit, the main objection
to the title to the glebe falls, and the bill of the
plaintiff ought to be dismissed.
By the laws of Virginia, passed antecedent to
the revolution, each parish was authorized to elect
a Vestry of twelve persons, to manage their parochial concerns; and however many distinct Episcopal Churches, or places of public worship, thu,
were within the parish, the same Vestry had the
superintendance and direction of them all. In
point of fact, there were two such places of worship
within the parish of Fairfax, the church at Alexandria, and the Falls Church ; but the cure of both
belonged to the same Minister, who was the rector of the whole of the parish, and the parochial
concerns were managed, by a single yestry. Not
the least trace can -be found of any other Vestry

OF THE UNITED STATES.

457

until the year 1819, when a Vestry was chosen de 1824.
facto, by persons purporting to belong to the Falls Ma n
,.
Church, and that portion of the parish of Fairfax
which is not included within the District of Co- DMunca.star.
lumbia. Up to the year 1796, it is not disputed
that a Vestry was regularly chosen for the whole
parish; and the place of the choice of the Vestry,
as well as the Vestymeetings, appears to have
been usually, but not universally, at Alexandria.
In April, 1796, a Vestry was chosen for the parish,
to serve for the usual period of three years, who
continued to hold meetings until April, 1799; and
from that time, there seems to have been an interregnum, so far as the minutes in the parish books
afford information, until April, 1804, when a Vestry was chosen, for the usual term of three years;
and there has been a continuation of Vestries from
that election down to the present time. The validity of these elections, from 1804, as elections of
the Vestry of the parish of Fairfax, forms the
point in controversy, and will be presently considered. Since the year 1800, the Falls Church has
fallen into a state of dilapidation and decay, and
public worship has not been celebrated there by
theMinister of the Episcopal Church, on account of
its deserted.state ; but there has been a regularly
inducted Minister at the parish church in Alexandria, where divine services have been constantly
performed.
The counsel of the plaintiff contend, that the
Vestries chosen in 1804, and subsequently, are not
to be deemed the Vestries of the parish of Fairfax,
but of the Episcopal Church, (that is, of Cloist's
VOL. I.

5

458
1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Church,) in Alexandriti; and they support their
Sargqment
upon the following grounds: 1. That
V,
in the parish books the entries constantly style
~uricaster. them the Vestry of the Protestant Episcopal
Church, at, or in, or of, Alexandria, an'd not the
Vestry of the Parish of Fairfax. 2. That, in point
of fact, the congregation of Christ's Church, in
1803, separated themselves from the parish of
Fairfax, and formed 'adistinct Episcopal Church.
3. That the elections were made by subscribers
and contributors to the,Episcopal Church in Alexandria, and not by the parishioners at large of the
parish of Fairfax.
Under some one of these heads, all the objections urged at the argument may be arranged.
As to the first point. It is true, that in general
the style of the entries of the Vestry meetings,
since 1804, is as the plaintiff stated it to be.
But it will scarcely be contended, that the errors
of a recording clerk,, in description, will change the
nature or character of the Vestry proceedings, or
devest them of their authority, if, in point of fact,
they constituted the Vestry of the parish of Fairfax. The irregularities of merely ministerial oflicers, and especially of parish clerks, whose records
are generally kept in a loose'and inqccurato manner, have. never been, hitherto, supposed to have
such a controlling authority. Courts of justice
will examine into the proceedings of ecclesiastical
bodies with indulgence; and'if, upon the whole, a
consistent construction can be given to them,in
conformity to existing rights, they will suppose
them to be done in the exercise of those rights, ra.,

.OF THE UNITED STATES.

thor than in gross usurpations of authority.

Now,

there is no pretence to say, that there existed any.

1824.
M'Vason

V.
right on the part of the congregation of the Episcopal Church at Alexandria, to choose aVestry of Muncater.
its own, which should not be the Vestry of the parish. The church itself, with the churdh-yard and
appurtenances, belonged to the parish of Fairfax.
st was the pari.sh church. The Vestry, which had
a right to govern and manage its temporal concerns, was the parish Vestry. It was an Episcopal
Church, under the direction and authority of the
General Episcopal Churcli of Virginia; and by the
canons of that church, made in conformity with
the laws of Virginia, and never repealed, the Vestry were to be elected for the parish. It is not
lightly to be presumed, therefore, that an election
of a Vestry was intended to be made in any other
manner than the canons of the Episcopal Church
and the rights of the parishioners would justify.
The very fact of a total silence, and absence of any
objection, through so long a period, would authorize the conclusion that e Vestry was understood
to be a parish Vcstry, an its acts were for the benefit of the whole, and not for the part connected
with the Alexandria Church. It should also be
recollected, that the Falls Church had fallen into
decay, and was no longer used for purposes of public worship. It was considered in the same light as
if totally destroyed; and then, as the Alexandria
Church was the only worshipping church in the parish, nothing could be more natural than, in common
parlance, and in parochial records, to designate the
Vestry as the Vestry of the Episcopal Church of.

1
E SUPREME COURT
CASES IN TH

1824.
Mason

v.

Muncaster.

in, orat, Alexandria. It was so in a strict sense,
not because it was not the parish Vestry, but'because the church at Alexandria was the parish
church, and its congregation, in an ecclesiastical
sense, consisted of the Episcopalian parishionersof Fairfax. If we advert to the history of the Virginia legislation on this subject, there svill be found
a natural reason for this apparent change of style,
without any intended change of character. That
legislation is referred to, somewhai at large, in
the case of Terrett v. Taylor, and need not hero
be minutely examined. The act of 1784, oh. 88.
created the Minister and Vestry of every parish a
corporation, by the name of the Protestant Episcopal Church, in the parish where they respectively resided. When, by the subsequent act of
1786, cl. 12. this act was repealed, there was
provision made, that all religious societies might,
according to the rules of their sect, appoint, -from
time to time, trustees to manage their proporty,
which trustees were, by the subsequent act of
1788, ch. 47. declared to be the successors to the
former Vestries. The general Episcopal Church
of Virginia, in convention, adopted general regulations on this subject, conforming, in substance, to the act of 1784, and providing for the
regular.appointment of Vesfries, who should be
trustees, for every Episcopal Church in every
parish. Under* spch circumstances, -the natural
denomination of the Vestry would be, the Vestry.
of the Episcopal Church in the particular parish.
And when, in consequence of the separation of
the county of Alexandria from the Statd of Vir-

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

gi nia, by the cession to the United Statei, the

1824.
parish church fell within the boundaries of Alex- Ma"n
V.
andria, the embarrassment arising from this new
state of things, might well create doubts as to the Muncastcr.
proper designation, and introduce the new appellation. Whether this description was right or
wrong, is of no consequence; for if there has
been no legal change of character, in contemplation of law, the regular Vestry of this church
remains the Vestry of the parish. It appears
in proof, that a number of the congregation of
the church at Alexandria, are persons residing
.without the boundaries of the District of Columbia, and in the Virginia part of the parish; and
there is not the slightest evidence that, in the
election of Vestries since 1804, a single parishioner of Fairfax has ever been refused his
vote at any election, on account of his residence.
We think, then, that the circumstance of a change
of style in the parish records, furnishes no proof
of the asserted change of character. In the eleclion, however, of 1810, the entry in the books is,
that theVestry were elected "to serve the parish
as Yestrymen;" and, immediately afterwards, in
subscribing the test, theyspeak of themselves as
the Vestry "of the Protestant Episcopal Church
of Alexandria." Now, what parish is here spoken
of? 'Plainly the parish of Fairfax, for no other
parish is pretended to exist. And when the Vestry subscribed the test, as Vestry of the church of
Alexandria, it is as plain that they understood
that the parish and the church of Alexandria
meantthe same thing. If thei the books of the

C-iSES IN TIHE SUPREAIE COURT

S82.4.

church are to furnish evidence against the defenn
dants, they are entitled to the benefit of the same
Mlaso~n
V.
records, by way of explanation.
%lh,,lcastC1. Theecond ground is, that the congregation of
the church at Alexandria has separated itself
from the parish, aiid formed a distinct society,
and can no longer be deemed the parish church of
Fairfax. This is principally attempted to be sustained by an agreement made in 1803, which is
found fastened, by wafers, to" the vestry book.
That agreement, after reciting that a committee was appointQd by " the Protestant Episcopal
Church of Alexandria," to adopt measures for
insuring a competent salary for a Minister, &c.
and that the committee so appointed had reported,
as an advisable mode, to rent out the pews to
occupiers and others, at a fixed annual rent,
amounting in the aggregate to 118G dollars, and
further proposed soliciting a voluntary subscription to supply any deficiency; then proceeds to
state, that the subscribers agree to rent the pews,
and to pay to the Rev. Thomas Davis, (then the
Rector of the parish,) the sums annexed to their
names, in quarterly payments, &c. &c. reserving
a right to surrender up their pews at the end of a
year. Such is the substance of the agreement;
and it is extremely difficult to perceive how it conduces to prove, in any shape, the establishment of
a new society. It is to be considered, that the
church, whose pews were to be disposed of, was
the parish church of Fairfax; and it cannot be
pretended that the parish could be depriyed of it,
Oxcept by its own consent through its authorized

OF THE UNITED STATES.

463

agents. A new society, composed partly of the 1824.
parishioners, had no more right or power to disv.
pose of the pews than utter strangers. It would
be as gross a usurpation, and as tortious an act, Muncster.
in the one case as in the other. But there can be
no doubt, that a parish may regulate the sale or
renting of the pews of the church, in such manner as may conduce to the general benefit. The
parishis not the less the owner of the church, because the pews in it are rented or sold to others;
for the right to the exclusive use of the pews, is
very different from the right to the freehold in the
church itself. The agreement, in the present
case, was nothing more, and purports to be nothing more, than a mere agreement for renting
the pews. It is made with persons who are the
committee of the church, and who claim the right
to use it. It is an act which might be done by
authority of the parish, without in any respect
transcending its rights or duties. How then is it
to be deemed an act which indicates the creation
of a netv society, or a separation from the parish ?
What authority could afly new society claim to the
paxish property ? If such a claim had been made,
it would have been resisted; and the very circumstance, that no resistance was made, is conclusive that the agreement was made in the exercise
of ordinary parochial rights, and indicated no
severance of interests. In point of fact, an agreement, in substance like the present, was made,
respecting the pews in this very church, in the
year 1785; and yet no one supposed that the
church ceased to be the parish church, or that the

CASES IN THE SUPRIEME COURT

subscribers constituted a new society. There is
M~ason
another circumstance, which is too significant to
V. %oepassed over in silence; it is, that the Rev.
Ifuncaster. Mr. Davis, to whom the agreement in question
1824.

refers, was regularly inducted, in the year 1792,
as Rector of the parish of Fairfax, and continued
to officiate as such, in this very church, down to
the year 1806, three years after this agreement
was made. During all this period, the freehold
of the glebe was vested in him, aspersontecclcsiev.
How then is it possible to maintain, that the support of the Rector of the.parish in the exercise of
his parochial rights and duties, and the continuance of the Rector in possession of the glebe
and the church, can be construed as an abandonment of all connexion with the parish, and a renunciation of its privileges. It is a fact, also, corroborative of the view that has been already taken
by the Court of this agreement, that the possession and management of the temporalities of the
church, have always been in tlc Vestries of the
Alexandria Church, since 1804. They have exercised the sole and exclusive control over them.
They have never disclaimed, in any ecclesiastical
assembly, their former connexion.

They have

not applied to the Bishop, or other proper authority, to be fbrmed into a new and distinct society, separate from the parish. And yet it is not
denied that, by the rules and customs of the sect,
new Episcopal societies are not admitted to be
formed within the bounds of existing parishes,
without the consent of the proper ecclesiastical
authority. In the act of consecration of the

OF THE UNITED STrATES.

465

church in 1814, the Vestry. expressly declare the 1824.
church t6 be the parish church of Fairfax, and in
virtue of their authority,, as the Vestry thereof,
.
they dedicate it to the public worship of God; Dln ter.
and the Bishop of the diocess than acknowledged
and consecrated it as such. In the year 1807, the
Rev. Mr. Gibson was elected Rector of the parish,
upon the resigfiation of the Rev. Mr. Davis and
on that occasion, the Vestry resolved, that lie
should be inducted as Rector of the parish; and
in the succeeding election of the Vestry, in the
same year, the Vestry are stated in the records to
be chosen "to serve the parish." So that, if in
the records there are siigle expressions which,
standing alone, might be of doubtful interpretation, the solemn acts of the Vestry in consecrating
the church, in choosing the Minister, and.in managing the temporalities, all point to their character
as representatives of the whole parish. It may be
added, that in the bill of •Terrett v. Taylor, the
Vestry assume to be *theparish Vestry in succession ; and that in the, answer to the present bill,
by the defendants, who are the existing Vestry of
the Church-of Alexandria, they assert, in the most
positive and solemn manner, the same character,
and utterly deny the allegations of the defendant's
bill on -this point.' So that, unless the Court were
prepared to divert the -clear purport of the evi-,
dence, and the solemn acts of the Church, for a
series of years, and the presumptions arising from
long and undisputed possession of the property, and
exercise of 'parbchial authority, on account of
some irregularities, which may occur in the transVOL.

IX.

59

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182-1.
V.

M3uncaster.

actions of most public bodies, the conclusion cannot be arrived at, that the church at Alexandria
has ceased to be the parish church -of Fairfax, or
that its congregation has become a distinct society.
The.third ground of objection is, that the Vestry were chosen, not by the parishioners of Fairfax, but by subscribers and contributors to tho
Episcopal Church at Alexandria. This objection
proceeds upon the supposition, that if the Vestry
is de facto the Vestry of the parish, the very mode
of choice demonstrates that it cannot be the Vestry de jure. Whether, in a case like that before
the Court, the inquiry can properly be gone into
as to tile mode and regularity of the choice ofa Vestry dctually in office and exercising the duties
thereof; and if the inquiry be proper, whether the
legal distinction between a Vestry dc jure and de
facto, could avail the plaintif; are questions upon
which it is not necessary for the Court to express
any opinion. We think a short examination of
the subject will put the objection at rest, whatever
might be the conclusion drawn from such a legal
distinction.
Before the revolution, the Episcopal Church
was the established church of Virginia, and all
the parishioners were liable to be rated for parish
taxes, and were entitled to vote in the choice of
the Vestry. But the church establishment fell with
the revolution, and the compulsive power of taxation ceased; and as no person could be compelled
to worship in the EpiscopalChurch, or pay taxes
for its support, the parishioners of the Episcopal
Church, in the ecclesiastical sense of the term, af-

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

terwards consisted only of the Episcopalian con- 1824.
tributors and members. The act of 1784, ch. 88. "'
Mason
V.
provided that, at all futhre elections of Vestries,
no person should be allowed to vote, who did "not Aluncaster.
profess himself a member of the Protestant Episcopal Church, and actually contribute towards its
support." Although this act was repealed by the
act of 1786, cl. 12. yet the same act saved the
management of. their property and regulation of
their discipline, according to the rules of their
own sect, to all religious societies. By the canons
of the Episcopal Church, subsequently passed, the
right to elect Vestries is confined to the " freeholders and housekeepers, who are members of the
Protestant Episcopal Church within the parish,
and regularly contribute towards the support of
the Minister, and to the common exigencies of the
church within the. parish." These canons being
assented to by the various parishes which they govern, and not being inconsistent with the laws of
Virginia, are not denied to be in force for parochial
purposes. Now, there is not in this record the
slightest proof, that any election of the Vestry has
been made in any other marner, than that pointed
out by the canons of the church; and the answer
of the defendants expressly avers, that.the choice
has been con stantly-ma.de according to the canons
of the church, and.that no person belonging to the
Falls Church, has ever beer a contributor, or ever
offered to vote at any election. It seems to the
Court, therefore, that, the elections being regularly
made, by parsons qualified according to the canons,
the whole foundation of the objection is removed.

CA\E

1N

SIUPREM11
P

CuUURi.

1824.

No inference can be deducecd friom this circumMr}a.,on Sstance, in proof of the Alexandria Church having
,,. separated itself from the parish, and become a
Mtnedster. (istinct and independent society.
It has been said; that the parishioners of the
whole parish are the cestais que trust of the glebe
and other parochial property, and ought to be
parties to any bill to dispose of it. But in an accurate and legal sense, the parishioners are not
the cestuis que t-rust, for they have, individually,
no right or title to the property. Itis the property
of the parish, in its corporate or aggregate capacity, to be applied and disposed of for parochial
purposes, under the authority of the Vestry, who
are its legal agents and representatives. Upon
the sale of the glebe, the proededs become parochial property, and must be applied for the common benefit, the maintenance of the Minister, the
repairs of the churches, and other parochial expenses, by the Vestry, in good faith. But the mode,
and extent, and circumstances, wider which the
fund is to be applied, are necessarily left to the discretion of the Vestries, from time to time chosen.
An abuse of their trust, or duty, is not to be presumed; and if it should occur, the same- remedy
will belong to the parishioners as in other cases,
where money is wantonly misapplied to wrong
purposes, which constitute a common fund for the
benefit of the whole parish, aind not for the benefit
of a part. It will be sufficient to decide upon
such a' case when it shall arise in judgment. But
the individual parishioners residing out of Alexandria county, were no more necessary to be made

469)

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

parties to the bill praying a sale of the glebe, than
the individuals residing9 within the county. Both
were represented in. the onl way known to the
laws, by the Vestry duly appointed to manage
parochiar concerns.
. These are some of the reasons which -have led
the Court to the conclusion that has been already
stated, to wit, that the Vestry oft the church in
•Alexandria is, in succession, the regular Vestry
of the parish of Fairfax.
-This decision renders it unnecessary to consider the other points raised at the argument;
and it remains only to declare, that the judgment
of this Court .is, that the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bil, be affirmed with costs.

1824.
Doddridge

v.

Thompson.

[LockA LAW.]

DODDRIDGE v. THOMPSON

and others.

Under the reserve contained in the cession act of Virginia, and under
the acts of Congressof August 10th, 1790, ch. 67. [xl.] and *of
June 9th, 1794, ch. 9Z841xii.] the whole country bing between ai
Scioto and Litte Miami rjvers, was subjected to the military warrants, to satisfy which the reserve was made.
The territory lying between two rivers, is the whole country from their
sources to their mouths; and if no branch of either of them has acqui.red the name, exclusive of another, the main branch, to its
source, must bq considered as the true river.
The actof June 6th, 1812 ch.432. [cix.] to ascertain the western
boundary of the tract reserved for the military warrants, and which
provisionally designate ud4ow'.q line aq thri wrqtrn linnlary, did

