OF THE UNITED STATES.

581

CERTIFICATE.
This cause caine on, &c. On 1824.
consideration whereof, itisOiRDERED bytheCourt,
V.
that-it be certified to the Circuit Court of the Dislum oac.
trict of New-York, that, under the circumstances Bank
stated in the record, the prisoner, Josef Perez, is
not entitled to be discharged from custody, and
may again be put to trial, upon the indictmentfound
against him, and pending in the said Court,

"[PRommssonY NoKT. EVIDENCE.

PLEA.D uG. LoCAL LAw]

RNNER, Plaiitiff in Error
V.

The

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF COLUMBIA,

Defendants in Er'or.

By the custom of the banks in the District of Columbia, payment of:
a promissory note is to bi- demanded on the fourth day after the
time limited for the payment ther-eof, in order to.charge. the endorser, contrary to the general law merchant. which requires a demand on the third day.
Evidence of such a local custom is admissible in order to ascertain
the undcrstanding of the partied, with respect to their contracts
made with reference to it.
Cases in which evidenpce of commercial usage is admissible, in order
to ascertain the meaning of contracts.
The declaration against the endorser, in such a case, must. lay the
. demand on the fourh, and not on the taird day.
Quire, Whether a declaration, in such a case, not averiting the local
usage, would be good upon demurrer?
Secondary evidence of the contents of written instruments is admissibte wherever it appears thatthe original is destroyed, or lo, by
accident, •withont any fault of the party.

582

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

In the case of a lost note, it is not necessary that its contents should
Sbe proved by a notarialcopy. All that is required is, that it should
Renner
be the best evidence the party has it in his power to produce.
.of Co- To admit secondary evidence of a lost note, it is not necessary that
Bank
lumbia
there should be a special count in the declaration upon a lost note.

Feb. 04th.

This cause- was argued by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Jones," for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr.
Key,b for the defendants in error.

March 5th.

Mr. Justice THoMPsoN delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia; and
by the record it appears, that the action in the
Court below was prosecuted against Renner, the
plaintiff in error, as en, orser of a promissory
n~te, drawn by James Foyles, and discounted at
the Bank of Columbia. Tie note bears date on
the 9th day of January, 1817, for 4600 dollars,
a They cited Rushton v. Aspinwall, Doug. 679. ChitWy on
Bills, 62. 465. Bayley on Bills, 185, 1.86. 7 East's Rep. 231.
Lyndo v. B.urgos, Per Sir W. Grant, 1 Wheat. Selw.'. P. 280.
Heylin v. Adamson, 2 Burr, 678.
Thompson V. Ketchum,
8 Johns. Rep. 189. Hoare v. Graham, 3 Cowp. 57. 1 Phillips
on Evid. 432, 433. 496. 493. Lewis v. Thatcher, 15 Mlass. Rep.
431. Edie v. E. I. Company, 2 Burr, 1216. DavisN'. Todd,
4 Taunt. 672.
b He cited 4 T. R. 153. 173. 2 Caines' Err. 196. 2 Caines'
Rep. 443. 1 Caines'Rep. 43. 18 Johns. Rep. 230. 12 Johns.
Rep. 423. 13 Johns. Rep. 470. 1 Phillips on Evid. 490. 492.
1 Harris4- Johns. 423. 4 Mass. Rep. 251. 6 Mass. Rep. 449.
477. 9 Mass. Rep. 155. 159. 10 Mass. Rep. 26. 366. 12
Mass. Rep. 89. 3 Dall. Rep. 365. 415., 5 Cranch, 49. 9
Cranch, 1.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and is payable sixty days after date. In the declaration it is averred, that demand of payment of

1824.

the maker was made on the 14th of March, which-. Bank v.
of Co
was on the fourth day after the expiration of the atmba.
sixty days, which the note had to run.
Several questions, arising out of the record,
have been presented for the consideration of the
Court. The principal one, however, is that which
relates to the time of demand of paymen* of the
maker of the note, and grows out of a bill of exceptions taken upon' the trial. This has been
pressed upon the Court as a question of great
importance, and the decision of which, in its application- to- the concerns of the Bank, will have
a very wide and extensive effect.
We shall proceed- to 'the consideration of this
point, in the first place, leaving the others, Which
are of minor importance, to be noticed hereafter.
The testimony given at the trial was for the
purpose of showing that the Bank of Columbia
had, from its first establishment, in 1793, adopted
the practice of demanding the payment of notes
discounted by it, on the fourth day after the time
limited for the payment thereof, according to the
express terms of the note. And that such was
the universal custom of all the banks in Washington and Georgetown. That this custom was well
known and understood by the defendant,, when
he endorsed the note in question. After this testimony had been received, without objectio, the
counsel for the defendant below called upon the
Court to instruct the jury, that upon the evidence
so given by the plaintiffs, of a demand upon the

58,4

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
-

maker of the note, on the fourth day after the
time limited by the note for tile payment, the

v.

defendant was not liable on his endorsement;

Renner
luboia

which instruction the Court refused give, and a
bill of e.reeptions was thereupon taken.
This Court must, therefore, assume as established facts, (and, looking at the evidence beforo
the jury, no 'doubt bould be entertained on the
subject,) that the custom of the Bank of Columbia,
and all the other, Banks in Washington and
Georgetown, from their first institution, had been,
to demand payment of notes due them, on the
fourth day after the time limited therein ; and that
this custom was known and well understood by
the defendant, Penner, when he endorsed the note
in question : and it may be added, with full knowledge and expectation, that this note was to be
dealt with in the same way; for it was Arenewal
of a discount, continued for a considerable time
before, on other notes similarly drawn and endorsed, some of which had been demanded in like
manner, and protested, and afterwards paid and
taken up by himsdlf. Under such circumstances,
it would seem, that nothing short of some positive
and unbending principle of law, could shield the
defendant from responsibility. But, so far from
trenching upon any such principle, we think his

*rhe general
is,
rpie
of law
to
demand
pay.

liability completely established, by well settled
rules of law.

It seems to be assumed as the settled law of
grae; but it promissory notes, that in order to charge an on.ent on
third
day the
of
by evidence o

a djferent
usage.

dorser, demand of the maker must be made on tile
third day after that limited in the note; and that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this is so. stubborn a rule, that parties are .not pet-

585
1824.

mitted to violate it, even by their mutual agree- Renner
ment.
or cothtBankV.

We admit, in the most unqualified manner, that iumbia.
the usage of making the demand on the third day
of grace, has become so general, that Courts of
justice will notice it ex officio ; and in the absence
of any proof to the contrary, will presume that such
was the understanding of all parties to a note,
when they put their names upon it. But-that this
rule has any attributes so inviolable, as not to be
touched by the parties to negotiable paper, cannot
be admitted. It has its origin in custom, and that
custom, too, comparatively, of recent date; and is
notone of those, to the contrary of which the memory of man runneth not, and which contributed to
makeup the common law code, which isso justly venerated. So far from this, thatthe allowance of any
days of grace, is in derogation of the common law
rule, applicable to other contracts. *They are,
emphatically, the mere creatures of usage, varying
in different countries, to suit the views and convenience of men in business, originally gratuitous,
and not binditig on the holder. The common law
would require payment on the last day limited by
the contract, and would also give to the maker the
whole of that day. It is a settled principle of the
common law, applicable to all contracts, that a party has until the last day limited by his agreement,
to perform his engagement, and even until the
last hour of the day. The common law knows of
no fractions of a day; custom, however, and that
introduced, too, principally by banks, has limited
VOL. X.

74

CASES IN THE StIPREME COURT

1324.

the day to a few hours of business. But this, and
whatever -other rules have been adopted by oonBahk of Cb- sent, and merely for the convenience of-comAroJzii,
cial men, are departures from the common law
-doctrine. When, therefore, the allowance of only
three daysiof grape, is said to be the law of the
contract, by bijis ofexchange and promissory notes,
nothing more can be intended, than that custom
has so long sanctioned this rule, -that all dealers in
paper of this description, are understood to govern
themselves by it. The law of the contract, properly speaking, is to pay when due; and that
time is to be ascertained, either from the.cmntract
pm"s, or that taken in 'connexion with some known
castom, which the parties are presumed to have
-tacitlyconsented, should be made a part of the
entract; And it is in this view only that three
'days of graee are allowed, where that cutom is
'recognised as the rule; for a note, which upon
its face has sixty days to'run, is in truth and in
.fact, a contract for sixty-three. days, and interest
& taken for that time. And how is it ascertained
-thatit is a note for sixtythree days, but by looking
out of the contract, and finding what was the undorstanding of the parties? Where the custom
has existed for a long time, and has become go•neraf, Courts of justice, as befbre observed, will
notice it e-.officio; and where-it has not) it is mat"terof proof. If this is not the lightin which these
transactions are to -be considered, -all banks are
chargeable with usury; for all take interest-btyord
'whal is allowed by, law, if time is to be deteriftinod
by"the note itself. The general rule of law'is,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

587

tnat demand of payment must be made of the ma- 1824.
ker, when the. note falls due; and that, time, ag Rlenner
now settled, is.on the last day of grace; and even Bank v.
of Go.
this rule is of recent date, for in the King's Bench

luBania.

in England, as late as the year 1791, about coeval
with the institution of this bank, and the custom
-established by it, we find (Leftly v. Mills, 3 '1.
R.) Lord Kenyon and Mr. Justice&Buller differing on this very point: the former holding that,
by analogy to other contracts, the acceptor of a
bill of exchange had the whole of the third day of
grace to pay the bill, and that a demand on the
fourth day was not too late. Mr. Justice Buller
thought the demand ought to be made on the third
day of grace; that the nature of the acceptor's undertaking, was to pay the bill on demdnd, on any
part of the third day of grace; and he inferred
this, from its having been, as he said, the practice
to make the demand on that day. If it was a
doubtful question in England, so late as the year
1791, whether the demand -ought to be. made. on
the third day of grace, or the day after, this bank
is not chargeable with any culpable innovation
upon long established rules of law or usage, by
adopting the practice of making the demand on
the fourth day
It is said, however, that the effect of this testi- theEvidence
or
use a
mony is, to alter and vary, by parol evidence, the thedrnisie,
for'
purpose of
written contract of the parties. If this is the light epining the
understanding
in which it is to be considered, there can be no asfttothetheir
pardes
condoubt that it ought to be laid entirely out of view; tract.
for there is no rule of law better settled, or more
salutary in its application to contracts, than that

588

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Bank v.
of Co-

which precludes the admission of parol evidence,
to contradict or substantially vary the legal import
of a written agreement. Evidence of usage or

Iinbia,

custom is, however, never considered of this cha-

1824.
Rlenner

racter; but is received for the purpose of ascertaining the sense and understanding of parties
by their contracts, which are made with reference
to such usage or custom ; for the custom, then, becomes a part of the contract, and may not improperly be considered the law of the cpntract; and
it rests upon the same principle as the doctrine of
the lex loci. All. contracts are to be governed by
the law of the place where they are to be performed ; and this law may be, and usually is, proved
as matter of fact. The rule is adopted, for the
purpose of carrying into effect the intention and
understanding of the parties. That the note in
question was to be paid at the Bank of Columbia,
and to be governed by the regulations and custom
of the institution, and so.understood by all parties,
cannot admit of a doubt.
Cases in It would be a waste of time, to go very much at
which evidence
of cnnmercial large into an examination of the various usages and
usage isadmissible, to ascer- customs, that are admitted 'in evidence and recogtain the meaning of con- nised in Courts of justice, both in England andin
this country, in almost every branch of business,
tacts.
and especially in commercial transactions, for the
purpose of ascertaining the meaning and interpretatlon of contracts. A few only will be noticed,
that are somewhat analogous to the present case.
In the case of Gutler v. Powel; (6 T. R. 320.)
where was brought under consideration the legal
effect of a promissory note, given to the mate of a

OF TLE UNITED STATES.

589

ship 1br a certain sum of money, provided he pro- 1824.
ceeded on her voyage, and continued to do duty Rmaldr
to thefport of destination. The legal construe- Bank V.
of'C
tion to be given to this note was clear, and so con- Bao.
sidered by the Court, that nothing was due, unless the mate continued to do duty to the port of
destination. He having died, however, on the voyage, the Court directed an inquiry into the usage
of merchants in such cases, declaring that if it
sanctioned an allowance for the time the service
was performed; the plaintiff should recover according to sifth usage.
No intimation is here given, that such proof
would be repugnant to the contract, although it
was against the legal import of the note, if construed without referencb to the usage ; and although the usage related to trade, it was very limited in its application.
So in Noble v. Kenneway, (Doug. 511.) usage
of trade was admitted in evidence, to explain the
understanding of parties, in a policy of insyrance,
although the usage had not existed three years.
Lord Mansfield said, the usage could only be
kngwn by proof, and must be tried by a jury; that
uiderwriters must be presumed to be arquainted
with the practice of the trade they insure, whether
recently established or not. If it were necessary,
cases might be multiplied almost without end,
showing the same principle and same recognition
of local and particular usages,-in almost every
branch of business.
We haveb,, also, in the State Courts in our own
coubitry, .the' decisions of very enlightened Judges,
adopting the same principles, and governing them-

590

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

selves by the same rules; and in many co'ses, not
unlike the one before us.
Renrat
In Jones v. Fales, (4 Mass. Rep. 252.) the same
Batk.of CoIubhe doctrine as to usages of banks, was fully sanctioned ; and although that particular usage might have
been found, in practice, inconvenient, and not to
meet public approbation, yet the principle which
governed thedecision of the Court, is not thereby
weakened, viz. that the usage with which tlm defendant was conversant, was proper evidence to be
submitted to a jury, to infer from it the agreement
of the party. And although, as suggested at the
bar, this custom was altered by the banks, we do
not find the Courts of justice in that State attempting to control it, in its application tO notes made
1824.

in reference to the usage.
The doctrine of this case was again fully recognised in The Lincoln and Kennebeck Bank
v. Page, (9 Mass. Rep. 155.) where it wa's held,
that bank usages, established respecting demands
on makers of promissory notes, mid notices to endorsers, being known to dealers in the banks, they
were bound by them, and that the usage was proper evidence to be submitted to a jury. These
cases are not referred to for the purpose of approving the particular usages, but to show that
evidence of such usage was never considered as
contradicting the written contract.
. Halsey v. Brown and others, (3 Day, 346.) is
'a very strong case on this subject, The question

was as to the liability of ship owners, for the lon
of money taken on freight by the captain. The
defence set up was, that the mastery aocording to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

591

established custom, was permitted to take money 1824.
on freight, as a perquisite to himself, and the
owners discharged from responsibility; and the --Bk V.
of
question directly presented to the Court was, whe- lb. Co
ther a particular custom or usage could be given in
evidence, to control the general law. And the
Court says, it is a principle, that the general common law may be, and in many instances is, controlled by special custom. So the general commercial law may, by the same reason, be controlled by a special local usage, so far as that
usage extends, which will operate upon all contracts of this nature, made in view of, or with reference to, such usage.
In Smithv. Wright, (1 Gaines, 43.) this general principle is laid down: The true test of a commercial usage is, its having. existed long enough
to have become generally known, and to'warrant
a presumption that -contracts are made in reference to it.
In the case of The Bank of Utica v. Smith,
(18 Johns. Rep. 230.) a note, payable at the Mechanics' Bank in. New-York, was presented, and
payment demanded, fifteen minutes after bank
hours, and this was held sufficient; it appearing,
that although it was a quarter of an hour after the
usual time of closing he bank as to other business,
it was within bank hours, it appearing that, according to the general course of doing business
at this bank, these fifteen minutes were the usual
and accustomed time for these presentments, and
of this course of business the defendant ought to
have informed'himself.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUAT

1824.
Renner "
B.
Bank of Columbia.
'"'

It is unnecessary to pursue this subject farther
by particular reference to decisions in the State

Courts.

The same doctrine, as to the eflect of
particular usages in controlling the general law,
will be found to accompany the. administration of'
justice, wherever the subject is brought under
consideration. Whether these usages are, in all
instances, wise and beneficial, may, perhaps, be
questionable, but where they do exist, they arc
considered as regulating and controlling contracts,
made under and in reference thereto.
The same principle is recognised by this Court,
in the case of Yeaton v. The Bank of Alexandria, (5 Cranch, 492.) The Chief Justice, in
speaking of the effect of usage upon the legal
obligation of parties, observes, if the case showed
that such was the usage of the bank, and such
the understanding under which notes were discounted, this Court is not prepared to say, that
the undertaking created by the endorsement,
would not be so fashioned as to give effect to the
real intention of the parties.
These cases ar, sufficient to show, in the most
satisfactory manner, the light in which Courts of
justice consider contracts, made in reference to
any particular usage, and the effect that sucll
usage is to have upon them. Ad no good reason is perceived why these principles should not
be applied to the case before us. The custom,
.under .which this bank has transacted business for
five and twenty years, of demanding payment of
the drawers of notes on the fourth instead of the
third day, after the time limited for payment, is

OF THE UNITED STATES.

593

not unreasonable or repugnant to any principles ok" 1824.
general policy. It does not stand alone, but is in
accordance with the usage of every other bank in Ba ikv.of Co.Washington and Georgetown. .The defendant lBumbia.
endorsed the note in question, with full knowledge
of the custom. A demand on the f6urth day is in
perfect harmony with the principles of the common law, if applied to the contract, the maker
1 aving the whole of the third
day to pay his note,
and not being in default unti the fourth. The inconveniences suggested on the argument growing
out of a. usage here, differing from that which is
in practice in other places on this subject, are not
of great public concern. If they exist, they affect the banks and their customers only. And if
felt to the prejudice of either the one or the other,
we may rest assured it would be altered. Their
private interest is a sure guaranty for this.
But, admitting the practice to be inconvenient,
and that a uniformity, in this respect, with other.
parts of the country would be desirable, the remedy.is not in the hands of Courts of justice,
whose business it is.to judge of contracts as made
by parties themselves, and not to prescribe the
manner in which they shall be made.
We are, accordingly, of opinion that the-Court
below did not err in refusing to instruct the jury
that the. demand upon the maker of the note, on
the fourth day after the time limited for payment
thereof, discharged the defendant from liability
on his endorsement.
One of the minor points, which has been al-S thoObjecto.s
tb
dec
laraleged as error, appearing on the face of the re- ton.
VoL.'IX.
75

594
1824.
R:enner

. COBank of
lumbia.

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

cord, is, that the demand on the maker of the
note should;- at all events, have been laid on the
third day after the time limited by the note for
payment, and not on the fourth. This objection
cannot be sustained at this time., Whether the
declarationwould not have been bad' on demurrer,
not, however, because the demand is laid on a
wrong day, but because it does not aver the usage,
is 'a question not necessary.now to decide. But
if, as we have determined, the demand'was proc
perly made on the fourth day, it would have been
bad if laid at an earlier day, because the maker
would have been under no obligation to pay, and,
of course, not in default. If, therefore, the cause
should be sent back to the Court below, no amendment in this respect ought to 1 e made. The
want of an averment, so as to let in the proof of
usage, cannot now be objected to the record. The
evidence was admitted without objection, and nov
forms a part of the record, as contained in the
bill of exceptions. Had an objection been made
to the admission of the evidence of usage; for
the want of a proper averment in the declaration,
and the evidence had, notwithstanding, been received, it would have presented a very different
question.
The time of the demand, as laid in the declaration, is according to the legal effect of the note.
If made at an eirlier day, it would have given no
cause of action against the endorser, for he was
not bound to p4y until .the default of the maker,
Iand he.was not in ,default until the fofrth
day.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is a general rule, in declaring as to time, that it 1824.must be laid after the cause of action accrues.
Renner
(Doug. Bank V.
The case of Rushton. v. Aspinwall,
of Co• 679.) does not apply. The bill of exchange,
upon lumbia.
which that suit was founded, was dated on the Rula in de.
claing, a's ro
27th of November, in the year
•17-78, payable tinc.
three months. after date. The declaration stated,
that .the hill was presented for acceptance on the
day of the date thereof, and duly accepted, and,.
afterwards, on the same day, the acceptor was
requested to pay, &c. but neglected and refused,
&c., and then goes on to state the liability of the
defendant, as endorser, adrl that he, on the same
day, assumed and promised to pay, &c. It appears, therefore, that the refusal of te acceptor,
and the assumption of the endorser, are laid on
the day of the date of the note, which was three
months before it fell due. The plaintiff, therefore,
by his own showing, had no cause of action when
lie commenced his suit. This was a defect which
no verdict could cure. He had not set forth his
cause of action defectively, but shown that he
had no •cause of action; and this was the ground
on which it was placed by the Court. A cause of
action, defectively or inaccurately set forth, is
cured by.the verdict, because, to entitle the plaintiff to recover, "ll circumstances necessary in
form or in substance, to make out his cause of
action, so imperfectly stated, must be proved at
the triaI.;, but. when no cause of action is stated,
none can be presumed to have been proved.
This cAse is not to be considered as if before

.596

CAStS IN THE SUPREME COURT

us on demurrer to the declaration. There being
no averment 6f the special custom as to the deRener mand on the fourth day, and the
general rule
Bank of Co being that the demand must be made on the third,
1824.

lumbia.

if the declaration alleges it to have been madu on
the fourth,, the joinder in demurrer admits the
fact, and, of course, that the demand was too
late. But had the declaration contained an averment of the special custom, .it
must allege a demand on the itbirthl day. That is according to the
legal effect of the note; and a demand laid on any
othe.r day would have been bad. We must now
consider the case as if the declaration had contained a special averment of the custom, the proof
having been before the Court and jury without
objection, and now making a part of this record.
Secondary
The only.remaining question arises out of a
of
evide "ce
the
content
of
bill
of exceptions, taken upon the trial, to the dewritten istru-..
wnt,, whe cision of the Court below, admitting secondary
admissible.
evidence of the contents of the note. And it has
been contended,
1st. That no such evidence was admissible.
unless it app.eared that the note was destroyed.
The rule with respect to the admission of secondary evidence, we think, is not so restricted.
If the original is lost, by accident, and no fault is
imputable to the party, it is sufficient. In the present case, it appeared that the note was in Cotfit
a fe" days before, and introduced in evidence on
the trial against Foyles, the maker, but had been
m
.islaid, and upon thorough search could not be'
found. Every case of this kind must depend, in
a great measure, upon its own circumstances.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

597

This rule of evidence must be so applied as to 1824.
promote the ends of justice, and guard against " Renner
fraud or.'imposition. If the circumstances will
v.
of Co.
justify a well groufded belief, that the original Bank
lumnbia.
paper is kept back by design, no -secondary evidence ought to be admitted; -but when no such
suspicion attaches, and the paper is of that description, that no doubt can arise as to the proof
of its contents, there can be no danger in admitting the -secondary evidence. In this case, the
note having been in Court a few days before, and
proved, upon a trial against the maker; there could
be no possible inducement to withhold it, and it
was, no doubt, mislaid purely by accident.
It is objected, in the second place) that if se-of €ondary
what evicondary evidence is admissible; the contents Ofdencec
eary to seesbe prothe note was not proved by that which was compe- ducd.
tent; that it should have been by a notarial copy.
Proof-of the contents of a'lostyaper ought to be
the best the party has in his power to. produce,
and, at all events, such as to leave Ino reasonable
doubt as to the substantial parts of the paper.
But, to have required a notarial copy, would have
been demanding thit, of the existence of which
there was no evider.ce, and which the law will not
presume was in the power of the party; it not Engipsbcbeing necessary tl.at a promissory note should be tice or requicount In the
protested.
•~declaration
It is objected, lastly, that secondary evidence upon a los
note, In order
was not. admissible, without a" special count in to let ill rtcvlthe declaration upon A.lost note. The English condary
dne, oF its
practice on this subject has not b'een adopted .in conb, ,,dop.
this dountry. as far as our knowledge of it extends,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

598

and to require a special count upon a lost note,
would be shutting the door against secondary eviV. dence, in all cases where the note was lost after
ashington. declaration filed. We do not think any danger of
fraud is to be apprehended from the admission of
such evidence, under the usual count upon the
note; and, the .practice in the Court below not
equiring a special count in such cases, no error
wAR committed in the. admission of the evidence.
1824.

r
N'Gruder

Judgment affirmed.-

[PA.OMISSORY Nozr.]
GEORG.

he

M'G RUDER, Plaintiff in Error,

V.
ERESIDFNT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF WASHINGTON,

Defendants in Error.

Where the maker of the note has removed into another State, or
another jurisdicticn, subsequent to the making of the note, a per-.
sonal demand upon him is not necessary to charge the endorser,
but it is sufficient to present the note at the firnler place of residence'of the maker.

.'Ifarchlsth. The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr.
Justice'JOHN SON.
a Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL, Mr. Justice WAsHnNoToN,
and Mr. Justice DUVALL, did not sit in this cause. Mr. Jtstlee
STORY dissented.

