OF THE UNITED STATES.

409
1824.
The St. JgOe

[INsTANCE COURT.

SLAVE TRADz ACTS.
BIZ~q.]

The ST. JAGO DE CUBA.

LIEN OF MATnIUAL

VNIENTE.

do Cuba.

and others

Claimants.
A question of fact, under the Slave Trade Acts. Condemntion pronounced.

The claim of seamen, for wages, on a voyage, undertaken-in violatieanof the Slave Trade Acts, out of the proceeds of the forfeited
vessel in the registry, rejected.
The claims of seamen, for wages, and of material m en, for supplieos
where the parties were innocent of all knowledge of, or participation
in, the illegal voyage, preferred to- the claim of forfeiture on the
part of the government.
Material men have a lien, which may be enforced by a proceeding in
the Admi.arty, in rem, for necessaries or supplies, furnished in a
port to which the vessel does not belong.

APPEAL from the Ciicuit Court of klarland.
This cause was argued by the Atto m -Gen- Feb. mi.
'ralfor the appellants, and by Mr. Winzd~r for the
respondents and claimants.
Mr.-Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of maatmh
the. Court.
This vessel, with her lading, found on board at
the time of seizure, were libelled for an infraction
of the laws prohibiting the African slave trade,
The causes.of forfeiture alleged in the libels,
comprise all those contained in the 1st section of
the act of 1794, -andthose of the 2d section of the
act'of 1818 with the exception. of the offence of
beihgiadn for the prohibited trade.
VOL.IX.

62

410

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The. claims filed to this libel, were,
' 1. Thit of one Vinente, a'Spanish subject, who
The St. Jago
de Cuba. alleges her to be a regularly documented Spanish
vessel, engaged in traffic sanctioned by the laws
of Spain. This claim goes both to vessel and
cargo.
2. Of certain seamen, who demand compensation for their wages from the .proceeds of the
vessel.
3. And,laItly, ofseveral material men, who claim
the payment of their bills, alleging the vessel to be
foreign, and their being employed in her equipment and repairs" by the captain, and one Strike,
as his agent.
The Court below condemned the vesqel, but restored the cargo, and from that decree the Spanish
claimant' has not appealed. The fate of the vessel, therefore, ,is irrevocably fixed ; but the United
States having appealed from the decree of restitu.ti6n in favour of the 6argo, that appeal gives'rise
to a complicated ihquiry.
The Court below repelled every other charge
against the vessel, except that of having been
'-caused to sail," with a iew to be employed in the
prohibited traffic. But. "being caused to sail," is
not among the offences enumerated in the latter
part of the 2d section of the act of 1818, under
which alone the lading of the vessel is subjected
to forfeiture.. That offence is among those enumerated in the enacting clause. of the section, but
in the forfeiting clause it is dropped ; andif, therefore, the case of this vessel exhibits no other offence, than that -which in the decree below was
1824.

OF TilE UNITED. STATEs.

made the ground of her condemnation, the decree restoring the cargo would be well austained;

1824.
S.

hence it becomes necessary to review the whole de Cuba.

case.
One John Gunn, it appears, built aid equipped
this vessel in the port of Norfolk, as a packet, intending her for sale ; but falling in debt, it became
necessary to raise a sum of money .upon her hull,
and he accordingly took her to Baltimore for that
purpose. When there, he addressed himself to
oie Maher, who advanced him the~money, and instead of an hypothecation in ordinary 'form, Gunn
executed a bill of sale to Maher, admitted, on all
hands, to have been intended to serve only as the
means of enabling Maher to expedite the vessel
on a voyage to Cuba, there to be sold; and to account with Gunn for the proceeds, as well of freight
as of sale.
This purpose Maher appears soon to have abandoned, for an enterprise of a very different nature.
The vessel was put up for freight, and various applications ensued; but Maher undertook himself to
load her for St. Jago de Cuba, and Gunn left Baltimore under the persuasion that her destination
was fixed. Some time, however, having elapsed,
and not hearing of her sailing, he writes to Maher
on the subject, and is then informed, that he had
despatched her, in ballast, to St. Jago de Cuba, under the care of Strike, a personage who; from that
time, makes a conspicuous figure in the res gestc.
For no sooner does she arrive at St. Jago, than she
is colourably conveyed to Vinente, but still under
theabsolute control of Strike; and without having

CASES I

1824.

THE SUPREME COURT

shipped an article, appears at once witha-valuable
T St.
S .Jago cargo
on board, the propery also of Strike, fur,Th'e
..
de cba. nished with a Spanish coasting license, on a voyage to Havana, thence to Matanzas,- where a part
of her cargo is sold, and she is completely equipped, aolourably a Spaniard, but really an American, for th6 African trade.
On,-her voyage, thence to the coast of Africa,
she is pursued by hostile vessels, and in the chase
sustains damage, which compels her to put into
Baltimore to refit. There she encounters Gunn,
her original and equitable owner, but who finds in
her .nothing of her original character, but what
served to identify his vessel, and expose to him
how his confidence had been abused, and his property forfeited, through his own indiscreion, in
conveying her to Maher. In'the present cause,
his interests are out of the question, and he appears only as a witness, on behalf of the prosecution.
It is immaterial to inquire whether this vessel
was in the inception of her voyage, "laden" for
the illegal purpose. for which she was caused to
sail. The Court below has -attached much importance to the omission of .tis allegation; and,
certainly, as a substantive offence, the vessel could
not have been cpndemned for that cause, unless
comprised among the. allegations in the libel.
But as to the liabilitr of the lading, found on
board at the time of the seizure, to forfeiture
under the act, that consequence is made to depend upon the liability of the vessel herself to
condemnation; and, although this Court is not

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

prepared to carry that forfeiture beyond the limits

413
1824.

of an intimate connexion with the prohibited The St. Jago
voyage, they are of opinion, that, in this case, do Cuab.

that connexion is so intimate, as to leave .no
doubt of its liability, to the full extent of the
liability of -the vessel. If, then, the evidence
will sustain .-ny one of the offences alleged in
the libel, which offence is made a ground of forfeiture by law, the cargo must share the fte of
the vessel.
One of those allegations is, that sh1 was fitted
out; and, contrary to the opinion of the Court
below, we think the evidence establishes that she
was -fitted.out for the- prohibited trade. This
conclusion we place on the ground a sumed in the
cases of the Emily aud Caroline, decided at the
present Term., The general purposes of the -enterprise, in its inception, are affirmed Uy the
ground on which the Court below founded its
sentence against the vessel, and are fully made
out by her subsequent conduct. This point being
,established, it follows, that acts, which otherwise
would be indifferent, anid -might be 'intended as
well ,for-an innocent as a prohibited enterprise,
become offences with a vidw to their purpose. Besides these, the utter improbability that this voyage
could have been undertaken from Baltimore to
St. Jago, without many acts which would amount
to a fitting out, we have the positive words of
Maher himself, the dux facti in the transaction,
in his letter of the 28th of October, to Gunn, in
which, When speaking pf having despatched .the

-114

1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIVI

vessel to St. Jago, he says, " Mr. Strike has an

"ago
The St.
Jago
de Cuba.

account
of ilI her expenses in fittinvr out."
-

This charge, therefore, we consider as esta-blished against her; and this is one of the enumerated offinces which subject vessel and lading
to forfeiture.
The Court below having subjected the vessel
to forfeiture, and the proceeds being in the registry, was then called on to distribute those proceeds among the various claimants, the seamen
and material men. Among the former, it dismissed all except that of Pietro Rosso. From the
decree, " to those whose claims are dismissed,
'there is no appeal, and the Court is not called on
to -pass an opinion upon the grounds of the decision as Telates to their claims. But. the decree in
favour of Pietro Rosso, is appealed from by the
United Statds, and it becomes necessary to examine that part of the decree which awards him
both his account, and precedence in payment
of it.
We think it erroneous, and that it must be reversed, since it is impossible to believe that he
entered this vessel without a perfect knowledge of
her character and destination. Spanish masters,
in common with all others, may commit infractions
of the act of 1818, within the ports of the United
States; and it is easy to conceive, that engaging a
crew, as well as many-other acts of preparation
for this trade, may be committed by a vessel
coming-lawfully into the ports of this country.
It :te plea of srress of weather, and other incidental embarrassments, be set up, as taking a

OF THE UNITED STATLS.

415

vessel out of the action of the laws against the 1824.
slave trade, it is incumbent on the party who The'St. Jagc
claims benefit of the excuse, to establish it. In de Cuba.
the present instance, this seaman was engaged in
the port of Baltimore, and so far was the vessel
from a want of seamen, that we find the master
actually refusing recruits, when ofirced by Strike
to be put on board his vessel. If one seaman
may be engaged, why may not a crew? the
offence is the same in essence, though not in
magnitude. The general policy of the law is,
to discountenance every contribution, even of the
minutest kind, to this traffic in our ports; and the
act of engaging seamen, is an unequivocal preparatory measur6 for such- n enterprise. This part
of the decree, therefore, must also be reversed.
The next question arises on the claims of the
-material men, or rather of those whose claims
were sustained in the Court below. From those
which were rejected there is no appeal.
On this point, the material facts are these: that
this vessel, although appearing under the Pharao
ter of a foreign vessel, was, in reality, in her
home-port: and this, whether considered as the
property of Gunn, or of.Maher and Strike. The
questions then arise, on what does the privilege
of material men depend ? On the state of facts,
or on their knowledge or belief of facts? On the
actual absence of a vessel from her home-port,
oth e power; given to the shipmaster, in another
port, to subject his vessel, to Admiralty process
and implied lien, in favour of material men ?
And, lastly, whether the prior forfeiture of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

vessel to the Uhited States precludes their.general
j
g rights, and places them on the footing of subse_ -"gt
'deCaba. quent purchasers, Whther with or without notice
of the forfeiture?
These questions are all solved by a reference
to the: nature, origin, .and. objects of maritime
contracts. The precedence of forfeiture.has never
been carried further than to overrepch common
la'w contracts entered into by the owne ; and it
would b6 unreasonable to extend them' further.
The whole object of giving Admiralty process
and priority of payment to privileged creditors,
is. to furnish wings and legs to the forfeited hull,
to get back fbr the benefit of all concerned ; that
is, to complete her voyage.
There are two considerations that fully'illustrate this position. It is not in the power of any
one but the shipmaster, not the owner liimself,- to
give these implied liens on the vepel; and, in
.every case, the'last lien given will supersede the
-preceding. The last bottomry bond -will ride
over all that precede it; and an abandonment to a
salvor, will supersede.every prior claim.
The vessel must get on; this is the considera'tion that controls. every. other; and not only,the
vessel, but even the cargo, ig szb modo subjected
to this necessity.
For these purlioses, the law maritime attaches
the power of pledging or subjecting the vessel to
itaterial men, to the fcte-" of shipmaster; and
•considers the owner as vesting him' with those
powers, by the mere act of constituting him shipmaster. The necessities of 0ommorc require,
-24.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that when remote from his owner, he should be
able to subject his owner's property to that iabili -

417
1824.

ty, without which, it-is reasonable to suppome, he do Cabal
will not be able to purMe his owner's interests.
But when the owner is present, the reason ceases,
and the contract is inferred to be with the owner
himbelf, on his brdinary responsibility, without a
view to the vessel as the fund fro-i which compensation is to be derived. From this view otthe ubject, this Court will be best understood,
when it speaks-.of the home-port of tie vessel,
an epithet which, it is very easy to perceive, has
no necessary reference to State or other limits.
And from. this view of the subject it results, both
that~the forfeiture does not ride over the rights
derived under maritime contracts, whether they
be called liens or privileges, and that the real
owners of a vessel, who have themselves contributed to give her a foreign aspect or character,
hold out the foreign captain to material men, as
one legally authorized to exercise the rights and
powers over his vessel which appertain to a foreign
vessel. They are thus precluded by their own
act from denying her foreign character.- In case
of wreck ard salvage, it is unquestionable that
forfeitures would be superseded; and we see no
ground on which to- preclude any other maritime
.claim, fairly and honestly acquired.
We concur, then, in the Qpinion of the Court
below, that the fair claims of seamen, and ziubspquent material men, are not overreached by th6
previous forfeiture; and that, even in the homer
port, a vessel may be subjected to the liabilities of
V . IX.

53

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
The

a vessel in a strange port, by being falsely held
as foreign by her owners. And the question
will now be considered, whether these material
men have sustained their claims against this vessel upon that principle.
With this view the claims must be examined
separately.
The large claim of Maher himself, the real
owner, but affected agent, of the vessel, has been
properly rejected, and he has not appealed.
That of Despreux, for 1856 dollars, was sustained, in the Court below, and from -that the
United States appeal.
This item, we are of opinion, is affected by
express notice. Guion swears, that upon the
arrival-of the vessel at Baltimore, he gave notice
to Despreux of her American character, warned
him against repairing her, and received for answer, that he was securedfor the repairs. There
is nothing in the transcript to repel this evidence,
but many circumstances to corroborate it. He,
therefore, does not bring himself within the rule.
There is, however, one item in this account, to
the amount of 300 or 400 dollars, which was
certainly good against all the world. This was
for wharfage; but the credits in the account will
more than cover it, and having been paid by Maher, or Strike, his employer, it is but reasonable
that the payments should be applied to the item
entitled to precedence.
The three claims of Hubbard & Co. for 72
dollars and 4 cents, James Ramsay for 645 dol-

St.. Jago up..

de Cuba.

OF" THE UNITED STATES.

419

lars and 99 cents, and Richard Coleman for 256 1824.
dollars and 3 cents, have nothing in their circumstances to distinguish them from each other. do Cuba.
They all allege the vessel to be foreign, and as
she was, in fact, not foreign, 'the question is,
whether there was an imposition practised upon
them, under circumstances calculated to deceive
and mislead men of ordinary vigilance.
We are of ppinion there was not. It appears.
that immediaely on the .vessel's arrival she was
libelled by Gunn; and although some difficulty
has existed in .the cause, in consequence of Gunn's
libel not having been inscrt6d in the transcript,
yet there are documents conuected with it inserted, which sufficiently explain the tenor and purport oT the libel, if any doubt could be entertained what that tenor was. These are, the answer
and claim to it,. and a retraction of that claim,
from which it appars, that during the whole time
these material men were *furnishing this vessel,
she was under arrest by the Court of Admiralty,
under a libel, claqiming her as American property,
in her home-port, which claim, the retractipn of
the answer filed to the libel fully admits. There
was, then, to say the least of-the facts, enough t6
put reasonable men upon inquiry. Despreux, it
appears, was put upon inquiry, and obtained security, and with ordiiary prudence or vigilance
these material men may have done the same.
Many facts in the case concur to affect them with
suspicion of positive knowledge of her real character. We think they have not sustained the exception made in the Court below in their favour,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

from the general doctrine, that such claims can-

The St. ,ago
The

not be sustained against a vessel in her homeport.

do Cuba.

The decree of the Court below, therefore, so
far as the appeal of the United States brings it
before this.Court, will be reversed, and the proceeds of the vessel and cargo adjudged to the
United Statws.
Decree reversed.
I)ECREE. This cause came on to be heard, &c.

On consideration whereof, it is ADJUDGED,ORDERED,
and DECREED, that so much of the decree of the
Circuit Court as affirms the decree of the District
Couit, dismissing so much of the libel as relates
to the lading of said vessel, and also so much
thereof as sustains the several claims of Pietro
Rosso, Joseph Despreux, Hubbard and Carr,
James Ramsay, and Richard Coleman, be, and the
same hereby is annulled. And it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the proceeds of the
cargo or lading of the said schooner St. Jago de
Cuba, and so much of the proceeds of the sale
of the said schooner as is embraced in the appeal
to this Court, be, and the same are hereby condemeed as forfeited to the United States, and
tha the proceeds of the said schooner St. Jago
de Cuba, and her cargo, be distributed according
to law ; for which purpose, this cause is remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with instructions to
make such distribution..

