OF THE UNITED STATES.

1824.
fPRACTICE.

E

Ex parte
Burr.

JURISDCCTION.]

artc BURR.

Qwusre, As to the authority of this Court to interfere, by mandamr-,
in the case of the removal -or suspension of an attorney of tht
District and Circuit Courts.
Whatever may be the authority of this Court in that respect, it will
not be exercised unless where the conduct of the Court below has
been grossly irregular and unjust.
In a regular complaint against an attorney, charges cannot be received
and ac.ted on, unless-made on oath. But he may himself waive
the preliminary of an affidavit, and the Court may proceed, at his
instance, to investigate the charges, upon testimony, which must
be on oath and regularly taken.

Mr. Emmett moved for a rule to show cause .rarci16ta,
why a mandamus should not issue to the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia, commanding
that Court to restore one Burr, an attorney of
that Court, who had been suspended from practice for one year, by order of that Court."
Mr. Chief Justice
,opinion of the Court.

MARSHALL

delivered the

This is a motion for a mandamus to the Circuit

Court for the District of Columbia, to restore Mr.
Burr t6 his place of attorney at the bar of that
Court.

It is a very unusual application, on which the
Court has felt considerable doubts.
a Mr. Emmett cited Tidd'a Pract. 59. lohn. Cas. 134.
181. Bet. Ar. tit. M.anda.
VOL. IX.

67"

MarcWhl7L.

kASLS IN 'THESUPREME CUR1I

553

1824.
Exx parte

Burr.

On one hand, the profession of an attorney is
of great importance to an individual, and the
prosperity of his whole life may.depend on its
exercise. The right to exercise it ought not to be
lightly or capriciously taken from him. On the
other, it is. extremely desirable that the respectability of the bar should be maintained, and that
its harmony with the bench should be preserved.
For these objects, some controlling power, some
discretion. ought to reside in the Court. This
discretion ought to be exercised with great moderation andljudgment; but it must be exorcised;
And no other tribunal can decide, in a case of removal from the bar, with the same means of inform'ation as the Court itself. If there be a revising tribunal, 'ivhich possesses controlling authority, that.tribunal will always feel the delicacy
of interposing its authority, and would do so only
in a plain case.
Some doubts are felt in this Court respecting
the extent of its authority as to the conduct of the
Circuit and District Courts towards their officers;
but without.deciding on this question, the Court
is not inclined to'interpose, unless it were ina
case where the conduct of the Circuit or District
Court was irregular, or was flagrantly improper.
In the case at bar, the proceedings wore supposed to be irregular,' because Mr. Burr was put
to answer charges not made on oath.
That the charges, in a regular complaint against
an attorney, ought not to be received and acted on,
unless made on oath, is admitted. It is a course
of proceeding which is recommended by consi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

derations, too obvious to require that they should 1824.
be urged. But this 'is not a proceeding of that Ex pante
description. The Court .did not call on Mr.Burr Bur.
to answer an accusation in the nature of an information against him. The inquiry was invited by
himself; the chares were-made at his instance;
and the Court proceeded on them at his request.
Mr. Burr himself, then, dispensed with the preliminary step of an affidavit to the charges which
were to constitute the subject 'of that inquiry.
He waived this preliminary. The testimony on
which the Court proceeded was all on oath, and
obtained in a manner which -is not exceptionable.
There is, then, no irregularity in the mode of
proceeding which would justify the interposition
of. this Court. It could only interpose, on the.
ground that the Circuit Court had clearlyexceeded
its powers, or had 'decided erroneously on the testimony. The power-is one which ought to be exercised with great caution, but which is, we
think, incidental to all Courts, and is necessary
for the preservation of decorum, and for the respectability of the profession. Upon the testimony,
this Court would not be willing to interpose where
any doubt existed. It is the less inclined to inter,
pose in this case, because the. complaint is not of
an absolute removal, but of a suspension, which
is .nearly expired, after which, Mr. Burr may be
restored by the. Court itself, .should not very serious objections exist to that measure.

Motion denied.

