CASES IN THE SUPREME COURtI

1824.
The Apollon.
fI1IBTANCE COVILT.]

The APOLLON, Edon, Claim,
A decree of acquittal, or;a proceeding in iem, without a certificate
of probable cause of seizure, and not appealed from with efirect,
is conclusive, in every inquiry before any other Court, that there
was no justifiable cause of seizure.
The French Tonnage Duty Act of the 15th of IMay, 1820, c. 125.,
inflicts no forfeitute of the vessei for the 'non-payment of the
tonnage duty. The duty is collectable in the same manner as by
the Collection Actof 1799, c. 128.
The.29th section of the Collection Act of 1799, c. 128., does not
extend to the case of a vessel arriving from .a foreign port, and
passing through the conterminous waters of a river, which forms
the boundary between the United States and the territory of a
foreign state, for the purpose of proceeding to such territory.
The municipal laws of one nation do not extend, in their operation,
beyond its own territory, except as regards its own citizens.
A seizure for the breach of the niunicipal laws of one nation, cannot
be made within the territory of another.
B1seem that the right of visitation and search, for enforcing the revenue laws of a nationi; may be exercised beyond the territorial
jurisdiction, upon the high seas, and on vessels belonging to such
nation, or bound to its ports.
A municipal seizure cannot be justified or excused, upon the ground
of probable cause, unless under' the special provisions of somo
statute.
The probable profits of a voyage, either upon the cargo or freight,
do not form an item for the computation of damages, in cases of
marine torts.
Where the property is restored, after- a detention, oemurrago is ailowed for the detention of the ship, and interest upon the value of
-the cargo.
Where the vessel and cargo hhve been sld, the gross amount of the
sales, with interest, is allowed; and an addition bf 10 per cent.
sometimes made, where the property has been sold under disadvantageous circumstances.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
'Counsel fees may b -allowed, either as damages or costs, both on
the Instance and Prize side of the Court.

363
1824.
The Apollon.

THE cause was argued by the Attornej-Gene- Marc, 18th.

'ral, for the respondent, and by Mr. Harperand
Mr. Clay, 'or the appellant.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the March 17t,.
Court.

This is a libel, brought by the master of the
French ship Apollon, against the Collector of the
District of St. Mary's, for damages occasioned by
an asserted -illegal seizure of the ship and cargo,
b "the respondent, while sie was lying in Belle river, a branch of the St Mary's, within the acknowledged territories of the King of Spain.
There is no dispute as to the national character
of the ship. It appears that she sailed fromFrance,
bound to Charleston, in South Carolina; but as
apprehensions wvere then entertained, that the proposed tonnage duty on French vessels might be
passed by Congress, an alternative destination was
given to her for a Spanish port, the object of the
voyage being to land her cargo in the United
States, and to take a return cargo of cotton to
France. The cargo Was partly owned by French
subjects, and partly by aMr. Le Maitre, a domicia He cited Church v. Hubbart, 2 Crancl, 187'. 234. Locke
v. U. S., 7 Cranch,.359. 1 Maw. Rep. 27. 1 GaIl. Rep. l1n.
315- 5 Cranch, 311.
b They cited 2 Cranch, 122. 3 Cranch, 490. 3 Dal. 335.
3 Rob. 208. 5 Rob. 43. 4 R/ob. 72. 1 Gagl. Rep. 427. 3 Wheat.
Rep. 559. 3 DaM 133. *1 Rob. 241.

364

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1924. led mercnant at Charleston, who was also the con'TheApollon. signee.
Upon her arrival off the port of Charleston, the Waster ascertained, that the French tonnage duty act had passed' (aci of 15th of May,
1820, ch.. 125.) and, therefore, declined entering
the port. He had Qn board some specie belonging to the Bank of, the United tates, which by
the permission (f the collector, was brought on
shore by the revenue cutter. Having obtained
information from the collector, that Anielia Island
was not deemed an American territoty, lie sailed
for that plaqe, under the directidn or the consignee.; and- there the ship lay for a considerable
time, while the master proceeded to St. Augus.
tine, a distance of about eighty miles, where he
entered his ship and cargo, and paid the regular
duties'required by the Spanish authorities. While
at this port,'be ascertained, that the local authorities had it in contemplation to establish a new
port of entry, to be called St. Joseph's, on Belle
river, within the Spanish territory, and to appoint
officers of the customs to reside there. The unquestionable object of tlfis establishment, as disclosed in some correspondence between the immediate agents, which is inserted in the transcript,
was to have a convenient depot, for the purpose of
carrying on an illicit trade,ein fraud of the revenue
and navigation laws of the United States. Indeed,
it is manifest, that there could be no other object, for
there was no commercial populatiQn in the neighbourhood whose wants were to be supplied in the
regular course of conmerce. Of this object, perhaps, Captain Edon was not ignorant; but he

OF THE UNITED STATES.

does not appear to have participated in any of the

S65
1824.

schemes connected witf iL. His nwn avowed
obT -"he0"
Apallon.
UnitedA
into the..Y~
cargo
his
transship
to
was,
ject

States, and to receive from thence a cargo of cotton, without subjecting himself to the payment of
the French tonnage duty. Part of the cargo was
sold at St. Augustine, probably to pay duties and
charges; and upon Captain Edon's return to Amelia Island, under the advice and instructions of the
Spanish officers of the customs, he removed his
vessel from Amelia Island up Belle river, about
six or eight miles; and after having lain at anchor near St. Joseph's for eighteen days, the ship
with her cargo was there seized by the collector of
St. Mary's, and carried to the latter port for adjudication. Admiralty proceedings were instituted
by the attorney for the United States, in the District Court of Georgia, to subject the ship to the
payment of the tonnage duty, and the cargo to
forfeiture; but upon the hearingof the cause, the
Court awarded a decree of restitution of the ship
and cargo. From this decree the Government interposed an appeal, but the appeal wusfinallynbandoned before any hearing in the appellate Court.
In the mean time the. present libel for damages
was instituted, and some difficulty arose as to the
propriety of entertainingit during the pendency of
the other suit, because in that suit it was competent for the Court to award damages, if the seizure
was without reasonable cause. The objection was
well founded; but it was withdrawn, from the
anxious desire'of the Govcf)ment to have the cause
speedily adjudged in the proper tribunal, upon

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1324.

the substantial merits. Upon the hearing of this
the District Court pronounced a decree for
damages,
from which an appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court; and from the decree of the Circuit
Court, confirming the decree of the District Court,
with an addition of thirty-three and a third per
cent. to all demurrage allowed by the latter, the
present appeal was taken, and the cause now
stands for a final decision.
The questions arising upon the record, have
been argued with great zeal and ability, and embrace some considerations, which belong -more
properly to another department of the government. It cannot, however; escale observation,
that this Court has a plain path of duty marked
out for it, and that is, to -administer the law as it
finds it. We cannot enter into political considerations, on points of national policy, or the authority of the government to defend its own rights
against the frauds meditate'd by foreigners against
our revenue system, through the instrumentality
and protection of a foreign sovereignty. Whatever may be the rights of the government, upon
principles of the law of nations, to redress wrongs
of this nature, and whatever the powers of Congress to pass suitable laws to cure any defebts in
the present system, our duty lies in a more narrow compass; and we must administer the laws
as they exist, without straining them to reach public mischiefs, whieb they were never designed to
remedy. It may be fit and proper for the government, in the exercise of the high discretion confided to the executive, for great public purposes,

ncause,

OF THE UNiTED STATES.

to act on a sudden emefgency, or to prevent an 1824.
irreparable mischief, by summary measures;-which The Apoflan.
are not found in the text of the laws.

Such mea-

sures are. properly .matters of state, and if the
responsibility is taken, under justifiable circumstances, the Legislature 'will doubtless apply a
proper indemnity. But this Court can only look
to the questions, whether the laws have been violated; and if they were, justice demands, that
the injured party should receive a suitable-redress.
adeThe first question is, whether there was-a justi- Erectof
cree of acquitfiable cause of seizure. This question has been ,alazaresd.
and judvtaa.
already decided in the -proceedings i? ren,
the decree of acquittal, not having beeii appealed
from with effect, is conclusive evidehnce in every
inquiry before every other tribunal, that there
was no such cause. This point was decided upon
great consideration, in the case of Gelston v. Hoyt,
(3 Wheat. Rep. 246.) and is not believed to ba
susceptible, of any legal doubt. In the present
case, however, as the parties, have been induced
to wai¢e objections to this libel, for damages pending the former suit, upon the supposition, that
the same questions might be.as open hera as there,
it- may not be amiss to examine the ground upon
which the right of seizure is now attempted to be
maintained. As to any forfeiture, or supposed
forfeiture, under the act of 1820, ch. 125. it is
very clear, that it cannot be maintained. That
act simply authorizes a-tonnage duty of eighteen
dollars per ton, to be collected on all French
ship , which shll be entered in the United States,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

1824.
4

and provides for the collection of the duty, in the
same manner as tonnage duties are -to be collected
by the collection act of 1799, ch. 128.; but this
act inflicts"no forfeiture for the non-payment of
the tor age duty, nor did the libel in rem even
affect to proceed for any such forfeiture.. The
consideration of this act may then be at once dismissed. But the 29th section of the collection
act of 1799, is supposed to contain a direct authority for the seizure. That section provides,
" that if any ship or vessel, which shall have arrived within the limits of any district of the United States, from any foreign port or place, shall
depart, or attempt to depart from the same, urlless
to proceed on her way to some interior district,
to which she may be bound, before report or entry shall have been made by the master, &c. with
the collector of some district of the United States,
the master, &c. shall forfeit and pay the sum of
400 dollars; and it shall be lawful for any collector. &c. to arrest and bring back, or cause to
be arrested and brought back, such ship or vessel,
to such pot t of the United States, to which it may
be most conveniently done." It is observable,
that no forfeiture is here inflin'ted upon the vessel
or cargo; but the penalty is personal upon the
master. There was no pretence, then, to institute
proceedings in the District Court, in rem, for-the
forfeiture, and the delay occasioned by such pro.eedings was clearly unjustifiable; in fact, the
giroinal libel did not proceed for any tbrfeituro,
except against the cargo. But it is said, -that the
arrest and bringing into port was justifiable, be-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

S69

-cause the ship had entered the district of St. Ma- 1824.
.ry's, and-had departed therefrom, without
making
of St. Mary's,
any report or entry. The district
by law, comprehends "all the-waters, shores, harbours, rivers, creeks, bays, and inlets, from the
south point of Jekyl Island, exclusive, to St. Mary's river, inclusive." St.-Mary's river formed, at
this period, the'bounda'rybetween the United States
and the Spanish territory, the boundary line, by
the treaty of 1795, running through, the middle
thereof, in its whole course to the Atlantic ocean.
The-only access from the ocean to the Spanish,
waters running into the St. Mary's, as well as to
the adjacent Spanish territories, was through this
river. So that, upon the general principles of the law
of nations, the Waters of -the-whole river must be
considered as common to both nations, for all pur,poses ot navigation, as a common highway, necessaryfor the advantageous use of-its own territorial
rights and possessions. There is no doubt, that
the Apollon did- not enter the St. Mary's for the
purpose of going into any American port, for trade
or intercourse. Her avowed -destination was for
the Spanish waters and Spanish territories; and
she never anchorbd in the St. Mary's, except upon
the Spanish side of the river. Her proceeding
up Belle -iver, was still more decisive of this intention. Under such circumstances, the question
arises, whether a mere transik through the wateis
of the St.-Mary's, for the purpose of proceeding to
the Spanish territory, is to be deemed an arrival
within the limits of the United States from a
fbreign port, within the sense of the 29t section
VOL. IX.

47

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Tof Apollon.
The

of the act already referred to.

We are decidedly

opinion, that it cannot be so considered. The
'laws of no nation can justly extend beyond its own

territories, except so far as regards its own citizens. They can have no force to control the
sovereignty or rights of any other nation, within
its own jurisdiction. And, however general and
comprehensive the phrases used in our municipal
laws may be, they must always be restricted in
construction, to places and .persons, upon whom
the Legislature have authority and jurisdiction.
In the present case, Spain had an eZlual authority
with the United States over the river St. Mary's.
The attempt to compel an entry of vessels, destiaca through those waters to Spanish territories,
would be an usurpation of exclusive jurisdiction
over all the navigation of the river. If our government had a right to compel the entry at our custom house, of. a French ship, in her transit, the
same right existed to compel the entry of a Spanish ship. Such a pretension was rever asserted;
and it would be an unjust interpretation of our
laws, to give them a meaning so much at variance
with the independence and sovereignty of foreign
nations. The true exposition of the 29th section
is, that it means to compel an entry of all vessels
coming into our waters, being iound to our ports;
and the very exception of vessell, bound to some
interior district, demonstrates the sense of the
Legislature, by. indicating the entire stress laid
upon the destination of the vessel., But, even supposing, for a moment, that bur laws had required
km.ientry of the Apollon, in her tranisit, does it fol-

OF- THE UNITED STATES.

that the power tor arrest her was meant to be 1824.
given, after she had passed into the exclusive terILTheApo l n
ritory of a ifreign nation? We think not.
would be monstrous to-suppose that our revenue
officers were authorized to enter into foreign ports
and territories,-for the purpose of seizing vessels
which had offended against our laws. *Itcannot
be presumed that Congress 'would voluntarily justify such a clear violation of the laws of nations.
The arrest of the offending vessel must, therefore,
be.restrained to places where our jurisdiction is
complete, to our own waters, or to ther ocean,
the common highway of all nations. It is said,
that there is a revenue jurisdiction, which is distinct from the ordinary maritime jurigdiction over
waters within the range of a common shot from
our shores. And the provisions in the collection
act -f 1799, which'authorize a visitation of vessels within four leagues of our coasts, are referred to in proof of the assertion. But where is
that right -of visitation to be exercised? In a foreign territory, in the exclusive, jurisdiction of
-another sovereign? - Certainly not; for the very
terms of the act confine, it to the ocean, where all
nations have a coinmon righi, and exercise. a commonsovereignty. And over what vessels is this right
of, visitation to be exercised? By the very words
Of thiact, over'our own vessels, and 6ver foreign
vessels bound to our ports; and over no others.
To have 'gonb beyond this, would have been an
usurpation-of exclusive soverqignty on the ocean,
and an exercise of an universal right of search, a
right which-has never yet been acknovyledged, by

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Theoo
Apollon.

other nations, and would be resisted by none with
more pertinacity than by the American.

Assum-

ing, then, the distinction to be founded in law, it
is inapplicable to a case whore the visitation and
arrest have been in a foreign territory. It appears to us, fhen, that the Apoilon was not bound
to make entry at our custom house; and that the
arrest.was, under the circumstances, wholly without justification under our laws.
The next question, which has been argued at
the bar, is, whether there was, in this case, probable cause of seizure. The most that can,. %Nith
correctness, be argued on this point, is, that there
was probable cause to arrest the vessel, under the
29th 'section of the collection act ; but neither that
section, nor any other law, authorized a seizure as
for a forfeiture in this case, much less a prosecution in rem, to enforce a forfeiture ; and so indeed
Effect of pro- the original libel in rem considered the case, But
bable cause of
seizure in mu- before adverting to the facts urged in support of
Aicipal cases. the suggestion of probable cause, it may not be
improper to 'consider, how far the existence of
probable cause can be inquired into, or constitutes
matter of defence in a suit like the present. Some'
obscurity arose at the argument, from not distinguishing between the effect of probable cause in
cases of capturejure bali, and the effect in cases
of municipal seizures. In respect to the former,
no principle is better settled in the law of prize,
than the rule that probable cause will not merely
excuse, but even, in some cases, juitify a capture.
If there be probable cause, the captors are en.titled,
as of right, to an exemption fr6m damages; and if

OF THE UNITED STATES.

373

the case be of strong and vehement suspicion, or 1824.
requires further proof to entitle the claimant o ThoAp31o,
yet farther,
restitutiln, the lvw of prize proceeds
and gives the captors their costs. and expenses in
proceeding to udjudication. But the case is far
different in respect to municipal seizures. Probable cause ha. never been supposed to excuse
any seizure, except where some statute creates
and defines the exemption from damages. The
party who seizes. seizes at.his peril; if condemnation follows, he is justified; if an acquittal, then
he must refund in damages fbr the marine tort,
unless he can shelter himself behind the protection of gome statute. The very act under which
*the present seizure is sought to be justified, contains an express provision on the subject, and
shows the cleat opinion of the Legislature. It
declares, in the 89th section, "that when any prosecution shall be commenced, on account of the
seizure of any ship or vessel, goods, &c., and judgment shall be given for the claimant, &c., if it
shall appear to the Court, before whom such prosecution shall be tried, that there was a.reasonable cause of seizure, the said Court shall cause a
proper certificate, or entry, to be made thereof;
and in such case, the claimant, &c. shall not beentitled to costs, nor shall the person who made the
seizure, or the prosecutor, be liable to action, suit,
or judgment, on account of such seizure or prosecution." By a subsequent act, (act of the 24th of
February, 1807, ch. 74.).the like provision is extended to all seizures "under any actof Congress
authorizing such seizures." , Itis apparent, frQm

;374

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. the yery language of this clause, that unless the
"
certificate be obtained in the manner prescribed
TheApollon. by the law, the seizing
officer is liable to a suit for
damages. And it was adjudged by this Court, in
the case of Gelston v. Hoyt, (3 Wheat. Rep.. 246,)
that the denial of such certificate was conclusive
evidence that there was no probable cause of seizure. No certificate was given upon the original
libel instituted against the Apollon and cargo, and
restitution having been decreed without' it, it follows, of course, that probable cause can, in point
of law, form no excuse against damages in this
ease. It is true, that if vindictive damages were
sought, the circumstances of suspicion might properly go in mitigation ; but where, as in the prosent case, compensatio., only is sought, the inquiry into the existence of such probable cause, can
have no legal operation upon the merits of the
controversy.
Whether there
But how stands the fact as to the existence of
was probable
cuaue
of sei-probable cause? It has been very justly observed
zure Inthe present case.
at the bar, that the Court is bound to take notice
of public facts and geographical positions; and
that this remote part of the country has been infested, at different periods, by smugglers, is matter of general notoriety, and may be gathered from
the public documents of the government. But
the question, whether the Apollon designed to engage in. this unlawful traffic, must be decided by
the evidence in this record, and not by mere general suspicions drawn from other sources. It is
somewhat.remarkable, that no act or attempt of
smuggling is charged upon her by any testimony

OF THE UNITED STATES.

375

in the record. Her avowed intention was, to send 1824.
her cargo into the United States: but in what
.
TheApollcm.
manner? It was perfectly lawful to transship the
cargo, in American or other foreign vessels,*to our
ports; no law was violated thereby, and no evasion of the French tonnage djuty accomplished;
for the expense of the transship.nent must have
been supposed by Congress to be, in ordinary
cases, a full equivalent to the increased duty. It
has been very.justly observed at the bar, that the
act of Congress was not intended to operate as a
non-intercourse or non-importation law, but merely as an additional and onerous tax upon French
navigation, in retaliation of the restrictions of
France, upon our navigation. The policy of the
act was, therefore, as completely effected by compelling French tihips to perform cir.iuitous voyages,
and thus to incur the disadvantages of transshipments, as by payment of the tonnage duty. Now,
it is principally from the declarati6ns and admissions of Capt. Edon himself, that the designs of
his voyage are known; and if we' take part of his
testimony, we ought in fairness to call in aid
every explanation that he gives on the subject.
He utterly disclaims any intention of fraud; and
his declaiations-on this-point haye not been discredited. But,. admit that he had an intention of
illegal trade,' how -could that intention, not carried into, effect within our jurisdiction, afford probable cause of seizure in a foreign territory? It
was not matter of doubt, that Belle nriver was
within the limits of Florida; and how can there
be probable caiise of seizure under our laws, when

37G
1824.
=

CASES IN THE SUPREME' COURT

the vessel is in a place exempt from our jurisdiction?
It is unnecessary to pursue this
subject farther,

as, in point of law, probable cause, if it existed,
would not, under the circumstances of this case,
constitute a valid defence. The remaining question is, as to the damages. The District Court
allowed the following items of damage: 1. Demurrage of the ship for 175 days, at 30 dollars per
day. This item, upon the appeal, was enhanced
by the Court, as has been already stated, to 40
dollars per day. 2. The difference between the
amount of the sales of the cargo (which was sold
under a perishable monition,) being 3523 dollars
and 10 cents, with ten per cent. thereon; ,and the
nett proceeds of the sales, wlhich had been restored
to the claimants, that difference being 1215 dollars and 99 cents, together with six per cent. interest thereon.
3. The allowance of 250 dollars
to the libellant, for travelling expenses to Washington. 4. The allowance to the second captain
of 100 dollars, for his travelling expenses to Savannah, on the business of the ship. 5. The allowance of 500 dollars, as necessary counsel fees.
Rule of daThe principal arguments against this decree,
mages in mafine torts.
have been directed to the allowance of demurrage,
as a just measure of compensation. The AttorneyGeneralcontends, that it ought to be disallowed,
as far too high a compensation ; the Counsel for
the libellant, as an allowance unreasonably low.
This Court, on various occasions, hhs expreshed
its decided opinion, that the probable profits of i
voyage, either upon the ship or cargo, Cannot fur-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nish any just basis for the computation of dama- 1824.
ges in cases of marine tort. The basis has ac- '-O-vUo

rejected. Where
cordingly been, in every instance,

the vessel and cargo are lost or destroyed, the just.
measure has been deemed to be their actual value,
together with interest upon the amount, from the
time of the trespas3. Where there has been a
partial injury only; that loss being.ascertained, a
similar rule has been applied. Where the property has been -restored after detention, demurrage during the period has been generally allowed
for the vessel, and interest upon the value of the
cargo. Where the vessel, and cargo have been
sold, the gross amount of the sales, together with
interest, has been adopted, as a fair recompense,
and the addition of ten per cent. has been sometimes made, where the property was sold under
disadvantageous circumstances, or had not arrived
at the country of its destination. Such, it is believed, have been the rules most'generally adopted
in practice, in cases which did not call for aggravated or vindictive damages. And it may be truly
said, that if these rules do not furnish a complete
indemnification in all cases, they have so much
certainty in their application, and such a tendency
to suppress expensive litigation, that they are entitled to some commendation, upon principles of
public policy.
But it is now said, that demurrage always arises
ex contractu, and, therefore, cannot -furnish any
rule of compensation in cases of tort. The practice in Courts of Admiralty, has certainly been
otherwise; and the very cases cited at the bar.
VOL. IX.

IRR

Demrnse.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT,.

1824.

show that no distinction has been taken, as to its
applicatioin, between cases of contract and cases
pf tort. In truth, demurrage is merely an -allowance or compensation for the delay or detention
of a vessel. It is often amatter of contract, but
not necessarily so. The very circumstance that,
in ordinary commercial voyages,' a particular sum
*is deemedby the ;parties a, fair compensation for
delays, is the very reason why it is, and ought to
be, adopted as a measure ofcompensation, in cases
ex ddido. What fairer rule can be adopted, than
that which founds itself upon mercantile usage as'
to indemnity, and-fixes a recompense upon the deliberate consideration of all the circumstances attendiig the usual earnings and expenditures in
common voyages ? It appears to us, that an al-i
lowance,.by way of demurrage, is the true measure
of damages in all cases of mere:detention, for that
allowance has. reference io the, ship's expenses,
:wear and tare, and common-employment. Every
. other mode, of adjusting compepsation, Vould be
merely speculative, and liable to the greatest uncertainties.. In respect-to the quantity of the allowance in the preset cae, there is a diversitk of
.evidence. on the-record. Two of the witnesses
examined upon the appeal, speak of 30 dollars,
and one of 40 dollars, as a-reasonable demurrage.
The Circuit Court, upon this new testimon, al.lowed the latter; and as it is perfectly clear, that
every Judge, in his own circuit, must have better
means of weighing t)be testimony, of credible wit. nesses, from a more 'xact ocquaintance with their
experienbe and extent of business, than we can

OF THE UNITED STATES.

possibly derive from the bare inspection of the re-

1824

to be dissacords; and as we perceive no reason
think that the decree,
we
judgment,
his
tisfied with

on this point, ought to be confirmed.
The second item is perfectly correct, except as
to the allowance of the ten per cent. The cargo
was sold at the market, though not at the port, of
its destination; and from the appraisement, it
appears to have sold for a higher price than it was
valued at. The ground of the allowance of the
ten per cent. then fails, for that is given for
supposed losses upon a forced sale, or a falliiig
market.
The third item, though small, does not appear
to-us-proper to be allowed upon principle. It was
no necessary expense in the prosecution of the
suit ;and, as it has been objected to, it must be
struck out. The fourth item is not open to the
same objection, and, therefore, may well stand.
The fifth item, allowing 500 dollars as coun- Coutua, iebi.

sel fees, is, in our opinion, unexceptionable. It
is the common course of the Admiralty, to allow
expenses of this nature, either in the shape of
damages, or as part of the costs. The practice
is very familiar on the prize side of the Court; it
is not less the law of the Court in instance causes,
it resting in sound discretion to allow or refuse
the claim.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court
is to be reformedin these not very important particulars; in all other respects it is affirmed, and
interest is to be allowed, at the rate of six per
cent., upon the amount of the decree thus re-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18'4. formed, from the time of the appeal from the
'S,'P

. .Circuit Cdurt,

until it shall be carried into effect

int the same Court, pursuant to the mandate of
this Court.'
DECREE. This cause came on to be heard, &c.
On consideration whereof, it is ORDERED and .CREEP. by the Court, 'that the decree of the Cir-

cuit Court,, awardingthe sum of 8695 dollars and
37 cents; damages,. to the libellant, with his costs
of suit, be in part reverged, to wit, for the sum
of 602 dollars and 31 cents, and be affirmed in all
other respects; and that the libellant do recover of
the respondent- the said -amount of damages decreed in the saitl Circuit Court; deducting the
said sum of 602 dollars and 31 cents, to wit, the
sum of 8093 dollars and 6 cents, together with
interest, at the rate of six. per cent. per annumin
on the same sum, from the date of the decree -in
'the Circuit Court, to the eriod of carrying this
decree intp effect in the circuit Court, pursuant
to the mandate of this Court.
Decree in Circuit Court,.
#8695 37
Deduct'l0 per cent. on ales
of cargo,
.352
31
Allowance for Waslington
journey,
250 00

060231

602 31
#8093

6

