CASES IN.THE SUPREME COUR'T

854
1824.
X0

*/[DEsCXNT.

t

,LIN.]

M'Creery
V7.

Somerville

M'CREERY'S

lessee v.

SOMERVILLE.

The statute of 11 and I Wru. I. c. 6., hich is in force in aryiand, removes the common law disability of claiming title through
an alien ancesftor, but does not apply to a living alien ancestor, so
as to create a title by heirship, where none would exist by the common law, ifthe ancestor were a natural born subject or citizen.
T.bus, where A. died seised of lands in Maryland, leaving no heirs, except B., a brother, who was an alien, ahd had never been natural-

ized as acitizen of the United StAtes, and three nieces, the daugiters of the said B., ho were native citizens of the United States:
it was held, that they could rot claim title by inheritan.ce, through
B., their father, he being an alien, and still living.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The case agreed, stated, that William M'Creery
was seised and possessed of a tract of land in Baltimore county, in the State of Maryland, called
Clover Hill, and died possessed thereof about the
1st of March, 181A. He had previously executed
an instrument of writing, purporting to be his last
will and testament, by which he devised the above
tract of land to those under whom the defendant,
Somerville, claimed ; but it was witnessed by two
persons only, and was, therefore, inoperative to
pass lands in Maryland, the laws of which require
three witnesses to a will for that purpose. W.
MI'Creery left at his death no children, but a brother, Ralph M'Creery, a native of Ireland, who is
still living, and who has not been naturalized, and
three nieces, Letitia Barwell, Jane M'Creery, and
Isabella M'Creery, the latter being the lessQr of the
plaintiff, who are the daughters of the said Ralph,
and native born citizens of the United States.

OF THE- UNITED STATES.

The devisees under the will applied by petition to
the Legislature r,1
Maryland to confirm the will,
and the Legislature, .accordingly,, without the

1824.
v.

knowledge or consent of the lessor of the plaintiff, somlleTl.

passed an act for that purpose; saving, nevertheless, the rights o" all persons claiming title to the
lands devised, by conveyance from any of the heirs
of W. M'Creery. The action was brought to re-cover an undivided third part of Clover Hill.
Upon this case, judgment was rendered by-the
Court below for the defendant, and the cause was
brought by writ of error to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Winder, for the Mard, 1i4a,
-plaintiffin error, and by Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the ,
defendant, and continued to the present term for.
advisement.
Mr. Justice

STOB'Y

delivdred the opinion of the reb.s,18s4.

Court.

The title of the lessor of the plaintiff to recover
in this case, d]epends upon the question,. whether
she -can claim as one of the coheirs of her'deceased uncle, her father heing an alien, and alive at
the commencement of the present suit. It is perfectly clear that, at common law, her title is invalid,
for no person can claim lands by descent through
an alien, since he has no inheritable blood. But
the statute of II and 12 Win. II. ch. 6. is ada He cited Co. Litt. 3 b.
250. 257.

1 Sidif. 193. 2 Bl. Cor 226. 249,

Bac. Abr. Alien, C. 132.

iMass.R,,.179.

4 Wheat. Rep. 453.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

356
1824.
'

P'Creery

v.

Somerville.

mitted to be in force in Maryland ; and that statute,
beyond. all controversy, removes the disability of
claiming title by descent, through an alien ancestor. The only point, therefore, is, whether the
statute applies to the case of a living alien ancestor, so as to create a title by heirship, where none
would exist by the common law, if the ancestor
were a natural born subject.
We have not been able to find any case in England, in which this question has been presented for
judicial decision. In the case of Palmerv. Downer, (2 Mass. Rep. 179.) in the State of Massachusetts, the facts brought it directly before the Court.
but it.does not appear to have attracted any particular'attention, either from the Bar or the Bench.
It may, then, be considered as a question of new
impression, and is to be settled by ascertaining
the true construction of the statute of William.
That act is entitled, "An act to enable his majesty's natural been subjects to inherit the estate
of their ancestors, either lineal or collateral, notwithstanding their father or mother were aliens."
The title is not unimportant, and manifests an
intention merely to remove the disability of alienage. It proceeds to enact, " that all and every
person or persons, being the King's natural born
subject or subjects, within any of the king's realms
or dominions, should and might, thereafter, inherit and be inheritable, as heir or heirs, to any
honours, &c. lands, &c. and make their pedigrees and titles, by descent, from any of their
ancestors, lineal or collateral, although the father
and mother, or father or mother, or- other ances-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

357

tor, of such person or persons, by, from, through, 1824.
or under whom he, she, or they should or might MI'Creery
make or derive their title or pedigree, were, or
v.
was, or should be, born out of tWie King's alle- SomerviHe
giance, and out of his majesty's realms and dominions, as freely, fully, and effectually, to all
intents and purposes, as if such father and mother, or father or mother, or other ancestor or

ancestors, by, from, through, or under whom he,
she, or they should or might make or derive their
-title or pedigree, had been naturalized, or naturalborn subjects." In construing this enactment,
it'
ought not to escape observation, that the language is .precisely such as Parliament might have
used, if -Lhe intention were confined to the mere
removal of the disability of alienage. It declares,
that persons might lawfully inherit and be inheritable, as heirs, and make their titles and pedigrees, by descent, from any of.their ancestors,
althoughtheir parents were born out of the realm;
plainly supposing that they might take as heirs
by descent, but for the cirGumstance of the alienage of the intermediate ancestors, through whom
they must claim. It speaks of such intermediate
ancestors, as persons who were or should be born
out of the realm, and it enables the party to take,
as heir, as effectually as if such ancestors had
been natural born subjects. Now, this language
imports no more than a removal of the defect, for
want of inheritable blood. •It does not, in terms,
create a right of heirship, where the common
law, independently of alienage, prohibits it; it
puts, the party in the same situation, ant none

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. other, that he Would be in, if his parents were
-M'Creery not aliens. If his parents were natural born
v.

subjects, and capable to take as heirs of the

deceased ancestor, it is clear that he could not
inherit by descent through them, as they would
intercept the title, as nearer heirs. The only
cases in Which he could inherit, living his parents,
are those where the common law has priduibited
the parents from taking, although they have inheritable blood. Such are the cases of a descent
from brother to brother, and from a nephew to
an uncle, where the common law has disabled the
parents of the deceased brother or nephew from
taking the estate by descent, upon the ground
that inheritances cannot lineally ascend. (2 Bi.
Comm, 208. 212. and Christian'sZMote.) If the
Legislature had intended, not only to create inheritable blood, but also to create absolute heirship, some explanatory language would have been
used. The statute would have declared, not only
that the party should, make title by descent; in
the same manner as if his parents were natural
born subjects, but that he should be deemed the
heir, whether his parents were living or dead.
No such explanation is given or hinted at; and if
we are to insert it, it is by expounding the language beyond its obvious meaning and limitations.
We do not feel at liberty to adopt this mode of
interpretation, in a case where no legislative intention can be fairly inferred, beyond the ordinary
import of the words.
This construction is zkot impugned by the. explanatory act, afterWards passed in 25 Geo. II.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ch. 39.

359

It seems that iucoiveniences were appre- 1824.
hended, in case persons should be held by the
M'Creery
statute of' William, to. gain a future capacity to
V.
Somerville.
perthe
of
death
the
at
exist
inherit, who did not
sons last seised. The statute of Geo. II., therefore, after reciting the act of William, declares,
that it shall not be construed to give any right or
title to any persons to inherit as heirs, .&c. by
enabling any such persons to claim, or derive their
pedigree, through any alien ancestor, unless the
persons so claiming "were, or shall be, in being,
and capable to take the same estate as heir,or
heirs, &c. by virtue of the said statute, at the
death of the person who shall last die seised,"
and to whom they-shall claim to be heir or heirs.
Then follows a proviso, "that in case the person
-)r persons who shall be in being, and capable to
ake, at the death of the ancestor, so dying seised, &c. and upon whom the descent shall be
cast, by virtue of this act, or of the said recited
act, shall happen to be a daughter or daughters
of an alien, and that the alien father or mother,
through whom such descent shall be derived by
such daughter or daughters, shall afterwards have
ason born within any of 'his majesty's realms or
dominions, the descent, so cast upon such daughter or daughters, shall be devested in favour of
such son; and such son shall inherit and take'the
estate, in like manner as is allowed by the common law of this realm, in cases qf the bii th of a
nearer
.
Then follows a 1iruvision for the
case of the subsequent birth of a daughter, who
is enabled to take as a coheir with the other

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

daughters.

\
.includes
M'Creery

v.

Somerville.

It has been argued that this proviso

the cases of all children born after the

descent cast in the lifetime of their alien parents,
and, therefore, supposes the descent may be cast,

notwithstanding their parents arc living. Admitting this to be the true construction of the proviso, and that it is not restrained to posthumous
children, the case of the plaintiff is not aided by
it; for the clause, that the son shall take, in like
manner "as is allowed by the common law, in
cases of the birth of a nearer heir, shows that Parliament had in view cases where the children
might, at common law, take as heirs, although
their parents were living; and yet the common law
devested the title, so cast by descent, upon the birth
of a nearer heir. For instance, if lands are given
to a son, who dies, leaving a sister his heir, if the
parents have, at any distance of time afterwards,
another son, the common law devests the descent
upon the sister in favour of such son, and he is
entitled to take the estate as heir to his brother.
(2 B1. Comm. 208. Christian's Note. 5 Co.
Litt. 11. Loct. A Stud. 1 Dialog. c. 7.) We
think, then, that this proviso does not shake the
construction, already given by us, to the statute
of William. For, here, the case of after born
children is expressly provided for, which would
otherwise be excluded by the declaratory clause of
the statute; and if it was contemplated that the
act of William created a new title, by heirship,
independently of alienage in the parents, beyond
the rules of the common law, the natural presumption is, that the declaratory clause would.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in some manner, have expressed that intention. 1 ".
So far from affirming a new title, by heirship, it M'Creery
asserts that the true construction of that statute
v.
Somerville.
the
at
being
in
not
who-were
persons
all
excludes
time of the ddscent cast, and then " capable to
take the estate as heir or heirs, &c. by virtue of
the said statute of William ;" and we have already
seen, that the terms of that statute give no othet
capacity than would exist if the pafents were natural born subjects. The exception, then, of after born children, out of the declaratory clause of
the act of George II., carries no implication that
the Legislature was dealing with any other cases
except those where, if the alien parents were
living at the time of the descent cast, the children were capable of taking, as heirs at common
law, in their own right, independently of the
alienage. Mr. Justice Blackstone, in his learned
Commentaries, (2 B1. Comm. 251.) gives n'o explanation of these statutes, which extends them
beyond such cases; and his omission to notice the
larger construction, now contended for by the
plaintiff, would be somewhat remarkable, if that
had been deemed the true interpretation of the
statutes.
In the absence of all authority, we do not feel
ourselves at liberty to derogate from the general
doctrine of the common law as' to descents, by
incorporating into the statute of William a case
which is not within its terms, and is not called for
by any-plear legislative policy.
Judgment affirmed, With costs.
Vot. IX

46

