720

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824
U. States

V,

(SURETY.]

Kirkpatrick.

The

UNITED STATES V. KIRKPATICE

.apd bthers.

A bond, given on tbe 4th of DecqPer, 1813 fr thefaithful dLsqhargo
of the duties of his office, by a Collector of direct taxes and Internal duties, appointed (under the act of the 2d of July, 1818l
ch. 16.) -by the Presiderit, on the 1lth ofNovember, 1818, to holdS
his office until the eild of the next session of the Senate, pnd q9
longer, .and subsequently appointed by the President, w.ith the qvice and bnsnt of the Senate. on the 24th of 'January, 1814, is to
be restricted (as to the iability.of the sureties) ito 'the*dties aid
obligations created.by the Collection Acts passed antecedeit/ to the,
date of the bond.
The second commission, issued under the appointment, with the advice and consent of the Senate, operatds a revocation of the first
commission, issued under the appointment by the President, whlph
was to continue until the end of the next session of the Senate,
and no longer; and the linbility of t~e sureties in the bond did not
extend beyond the duration of the first commission.
In general. laches is not imputable to the Government: abna whero
the laws require quarterly or other periodical accouuts.arid settlements, a mere omission to bring a suit, upon the neglect of the
officer or agent to attount4 wilt not discharge his sur~ts.
TIhe case of The People v. Jansen, (9John.7. Rep., fl2.), distiat
guished ; atd, so far as it conflicts with the present case, overruled.
In general, the debtor has a right o wake the appropriation of payments; if he omits it, th6 creditor may mako.it: but neither part'
has a right to make an appropriation after the controversy has
arisen.
In cases of long and running accounts, where balances are adjusted,
merely for the purpose of making rests, the law..will apply payments to extinguish the debts, accordingto tbe.priority of time.

ERROR to the District Court for the Weafern
District of" Pennsylvania.

OP THE UNITE'D STATE$.

This was an action of debt, commenced by the
United States, in the Court below; against the
defendants in erior, J Kirkpatrick and others, as
the obligees of a b6nd, given by them to the United States, on -the 4th of December, IiMa, conditioned for the true and faithful discharge of the
.luties of the office of Collector of direct taxes
and internal duties, by Samuel.M. Reed, who had
been appointed to that office by the President, on
the 11th of November, 1813, and, by the terms
of his commission, was to hold his office during
the pleasure of the President, "and until the end
of the next session of the Senate of the United
States, and no longer." - Qn the 24th of January,
1814,i.he was re-appointed to the same office, by
the President, by and with thu advice and consent
of the Senate, and by the ne* commission issued
to him, was to hold hig office "during the pleasure
of the President of the United States, for the
time .being." The pleadings upon vihich the
cause 'was tried in the Court below, were extremely infor.mal and confused, but they resulted
.- substantially in the. following questions of laii

upon which the Judge instructed the jury, and a
.bilI1.of exceptions was taken.
Whether the liability of the sureties
to the
bond, was limited to the duties and.'obligations
imposed upon the Collector by the act of the 22d
of July, 1813, ch. 16, and othej acts relating to
the assessment and collection of direct taxes and
internal duties, passed antecedent to the execution
of the bond, thus excluding the liability for moVOL.IN.

9,

1824.
U. State;

V.

irkpatzck

CASES IM THE SUPREME; COURT

1824.
U. States

V.

Kirkpatrick.

neys collected under.subsequent.statutes? Upon
this point, the Court below instructed the jury that
the responsibility of -he sureties did nbt extend to
the obligations created by the subsequent statutes.
2. Whether the jury were at liberty to impute
Isches to.the government, from the delay of the
proper Qficers to call the Collector to. account, at
the periods prescribed by.law, from the year 1814
to 1818 ? The Court left it to the jury to decide
'whether, wider the circumstances of the case, the
Government had not waived ita.resort.to the. sureties.
S. Whether -the responsibility- of the sureties
extended beyond the duration ol the first.ornmission
Upon this point, ..the-Court. below oharged.
the jury, that the responsibility of the sureties
extended to.the re-appointment' of the Collectnr
under::the -new commission, until his duties ana
obligations. were varied by the statutes enacted
"subsequent to.the date of the bond.
4.. How-the. payments, which had' been made
by.the Collector) were to be appropriated? The
balance found due in each account, had been carried forward to the succeeding account, and the
Court was of opinion, that the Government could
not-make the appropriation, at the time of the trial,
so as to apply the payments to the extinguishment'
ofdebts due subsequent to the titne when the
sureties ceased to be" liable.
Upon these instructions a verdict was found for
the defendants, upon which a judgment was rondered in' the Court below,' and the cause was
brought by -writ of error-to this Court.

OP THE UNITED STATES,

723

The Attorney-Gen-era, for the plaintiffs, men- 1824,
tioued the extreme ltxity of the pleadings '?inthe U.States
Court below, not with a v.iew of preventing a dev.
cision upon the-merits, wich was very much de- Kirkpatrick.
sired by.the Government, but in the hope 6f pro- UaCl, 171,.
ducing-sme reformn. He argued, (.) That the
appointment-of the Collector was permanent, neither limited in point of time, nor to the acts of
Congress then in force, but extending to all laws
on-the subject of direct taxes and. internal reve,
nue, which might be passed during his continuance
in office,. The act of the 22d of July,, 1813, ch,
544. [xvi.] makes a .permanent partition of the
*hole~te'rritory of the United States -into collection districts, preparatory to- other distinct and
separate laws, which were afterwards to follow,
It looks to.-all future la~s.- There being, 'the7,
no existinpg aw in-force, all the laws to which the
bond could refer were: prospective. -The case-of
the.,.People v; J"anse,".w.hich had .been referred
to i6 the-Court below, was distinguishable, in several- particulars; from the present. (2.) The instruction given to the jury, -duthorizing them to
impqte l.aphes.to the Government, was erroneous.
E-ve idiha .as o'f private individuals, rnere.delay
in prqoeeding against the principal debtor will not
discharge. -asurety. (3.) The charge of the
Judge below Was also erroneous, in authorizing
the-jury to apply the.,payments made by the Col0 fo.(w Rep. sst. 840;
b The Trent Navigation Comp.any v. Harley, 1OzEast. Rep.

t4

34.

Naresv.Rowles, .14 Eait. Rev. 510.

CASES-IN THE SUPREME COURT

1-824.
" States
U.
v.

Kirkpatrick.

lector to thd balances due, under the acts in force
When the bond was .given.. The rule is settled,
that where debts are due on'two different accountA,
the debtor may make the application to either, at
the time of payment. But, if he omit to do it,
the creditor has a right to determine to which it
shll be applied.-.
Mr, Alexander and Mr. Foster,contra, contended, (1.) that the bond entered into by the defendants in error, was'no farther obligatory-on them,
than for.the faithful performance of the official duties of Reed, during the continuance of the appointment recited in the condition. The first commission was to continue in force, by its own terms,
only until the end of the next session of the,Senate;
and the new commission was a .revocation of it.
Being with the advice and consent of the'Senate, it
is by a different authority, and the President,might
have'-nominated a different person. By carrying
forward the balance due by Reed, under the first
eommission) to his -account, as Collector under
the second comm'ission, it Was shown, that his persoal responsibility was looked to, -and that no resort was intehded tobe had against the sureties;
It has been held, thai a guarantee of a partner.ship debt is.not liable, where the partnership debt
is discharged, by carrying the proportions of each
partner to his sepa~yate account, without notice to
a I'eters v. Auderson, 1 Marsh. Rep. 238..Newrarch v.
Clavy 13 East, Rep. 239.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

725

the guarantee. This nnist be upon the principle, 1324.
that the plaintiff had -shown, by his own act) that " '
V.
*he did not intend to resort to the surety, and tha(
he looked to the debtors in'a different capacitY KIrkrl'L.
from that in which the guaranty was given. In
Lord Arlington v. Merrck, the action was deot
on bond, dated the 1st of May, 18 Car. II., conditioned that, whereas, on the 30th of April, 1667,
the plaintiff had deputed T. Jenkins to execute
said office, from the 24th of June next for six
months following, if said T. J. shall, &c., for and
during all the"time he .shall continue Deputy Post
Master, well, truly, and faithfully do, execute, and
•perform all the .duties,&c. The defendant pleaded performance generally; and a breach was assigned -on the last day of, September, 22d of the
King; and defendant demurred. The Court held,
that the. condition should refer to the recital only,
by wtich the defendant was bound only for six
months, -and not longer.c This had been considered- as a leading case ever since; and other ana-logous:eaaes might be cited." (2.) The subsea Cremer v. Higginson, I Marson's Rep. See also, 3 Mreat.
Rep. 148. Note a. and the ;ases there collected. Commonwealth
V.. Fairfax, 4*H,74n
aif4 Murf. 208., recognised by the Court to be
1awI- Ander'sonv. Longden,-i 0f'lat. Rep. 91.
b 3Saui 411".
c I- 415, SergL Williams' Note (5.)
dWght.v. Russell, 3*I.530. S.C.11.:.BL ?. 934. African ompiiny "v, ,lasoni,
cited in Stubbs v. Clough, Sir. 27.
Barker v. Parker, 1 T. Xe 287. Barday v. Lucas, 1 T.R.291.
Note a. Aetcalfv. Bruh i2.ast.,Rp...400. The Wardens.
67 St. Saviour v. Bostwick,. 5 ios.4, Put. -175. Commonweakh
v. B9yntoi, 4 DaL 282. Armstrong v-the United States, 1re.
ters' eji C- C. 46. Liverpool Waterwbrks Comnanv- v. Atkinson, 6 East P. 507.

6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

quent acts of Congress on the same matter had so
varied
and enlarged the duties the Collector, as
v.
created by the statutes in force atofthe
time the bond
Kirkpatrick. was given, that the sureties were not liable for
moneys received under those acts, even admitting
that they were liable beyond the continuance of
the first commission. The learned counsel entered into a critical examination of the acts, to
show that the duties of the officer were thus varied and enlarged, and cited the authorities in the
margin to support the legal principle, tlMt such
alteration in h is official duties would discharge the
sureties from further liability.0 (3.) That laches
might be imputed to the government, through the
negligence of their off :ers.b In the case*of mere
private individuals, t& --surety, or guarante.e, may
pay the debt,-and proceed in-Chancery to compel
the creditor to enforce his demand against the principal, which he could not uo. in the case of the
Government; and that was .a sufficient reason to
justify the Court below in. leaving -it to the jury to
say3-whether the neglect of the officers of the treasury was not a waiver of the guaranty.0 And even
a Bartlett v. the Attorney-General, Parker, 277. Comn. Dig.
tit. Chaucery, (2.). Stratton v.ARastall,.2 T. R. 366, Ludlow v.
Simond, 2,Cainei. Cas. in Err. 3 Wheat. Rep. 155. Note a.,
and cases there cited. 1 Bos, ("Pull. 419. King v. Baldwin,
2 Johns. Ch.Rep. 554. 18 Ves. 20.
b The People v. Jansen, 7 Johns. Rep. 332. Hunt v. V. S.
1 Gall.Sk.
Kini v.Baldwin, 2 Johns. Ch. Re56 Wright v. Russell,
2 W. B/. 934. 5 Vin. 108.pl. 14; Paint V..Packard,13 Johns.
Rxp. I74;

OF THE UMrTED STATES.

in the case of a private individual, gross laches, or
824.
fraud, on the part of the creditor, will discharge "'
'
the surety a (4.)The Court below were jnot bound
v.
to direct the- jury, that the subsequent payments Mrkptxick,
should be applied to discharge subsequent balances.;. :nor did it appear by the. record, that the
United States Attorney made sucht an election.
The rule as between a private debtor and creditor,
as-to- the appropriation of payments, is not applicab10 where the receiver is a public officer' Where
the whole casels-complicated of lasw and fact, the
wholemiay be.left to.the jury, unless some particular point -isselected by the cnunsei for the consideration -ofthe Judge, -and his opinion is asked
-upon that, point.
The Attorney-General,in reply, insisted. thpLt
there -Was no limitation to the obligation of a'surety,. unless expressed on the face of the bond, or
- Rer.ick,d
Arl gtm'z.0n'Lord
implied in law.-the.-condition of the -hond-was -expressly limited to
sixmonths; 'Soallthe.-therxeases cited would be
found to. have -some .distinguishing feature; such
as that the condition was to be.faithful to the plainr
tiff, and thebreach-assigned was,-that the defendant had failed: to'pay the plaintiff and, his partner,
a Philips v. Astling, 2. Taunt. 206. .Wartington v; Forbes, 8
East. Rep, 245. Duval v. Trask,115 Mass. kep. "154. "Hutv.
United States, I Gal. 34 '4 Whwat. -Rtp. 154, -155. Note a,
and cases there colleeted.
b United States v.'$anuary,'7fCrdnwq75.
c Boorman v. Smith,- Sqr, A-RawL 464.
d s Saund.411.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

whom he had suosequently taken into the Arm,
There it was held, that. the surety was not liable
V. for subsequent defaults. a In the case of the PeoKirkpatrick.ple v. Jnse, the statute of New-York made it
U. States

the express duty of the public officers to prosecute
diligently, and with effect, the suits which had been
commenced agaifist the principal ; and their neglect to perform this duty, actually occasioned the
loss for which the sureties were sought to be made
responsible. So, also, in the exchequer case of
Bartlett o. the Attorney-General, a new duty
was laid upon coals, by a statute passed subsequent to the giving of the bond by the Collector,
under which statute a ncy deputation was given,
and new security taken; it was,.thereforo, very
properly held, that the sureties on the first bond
were not liable.for the moneys received on account
of this duty, But, in the present case, the bond
is to continue during his continuance in office; and
is to secure all duties collected during that -term.
If it were an annual office, it might have been
different.d As to the two commissions, the practice of the Government has been, to consider
them as one continuing commission. A different
construction .would render thd . bond practically
ineffectual., The bbjection which seeks to impute
lches to the Governmeiit, on account of the mere
omission of its officers to .proceed against the
a
b
c
d

3 l/ils. 530.
9 Johns. Rep. 332.340.Parker,277.
Curling v. Chalklen, 0 Maul. 4'Selw. 502.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.729

principal, on every periodical omission to a'ccount, 1824.
is entirely novel, and, if-it were to prevail, would U. States
V.
be equally fatal to the most important interests of
mrkpatrick.
themselves,
suieties
to-the
injurious
and
the public,
as it may often happen that the balance consists of
outstanding duty bonds, which may soon afterwards be collected,. and liquidate the balance.
The law does not create any obligation to sue,
which does not exist in the case of a private guaranty.
ir. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the March90t.
Court.
In -this case, the Court cannot but lament the
extreme irregularity and laxity of the pleadings,
if, indeed, the informal minutes upon the record
be entitled, in any measure, to the appellation
of pleadings. Some apology is, indeed, to be
found in the asserted inaccurate local practice in
the State Courts; but it is impossible, without
breaking down the best settled principles of law,
not to perceive that the very errors in the pleadings are, of themselves, sufficient to justify a reversal of the judgment, and an award of a re-.
pleader.- The agreement. of the parties, filed in
the case, may, indeed, help the formal defects,
but cannot be admitted to dispense with the substance of appropriate pleas; for, otherwise, it
would be difficult to ascertain what was tried,
or to be tried; and we might as well dispense with
the declaration itself, as with the subsequent pleadings. It is to be hoped that, in future, a more corVOL. IX.

92

730

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18,4.

rect practice will find its way into the -District
Court.
v.
Three errors have been insisted upon by the
Kirkpatrick. Government, as contained in the charge of the
. States
17"

Court below. The first is, .that the Judge limited
the responsibility of the surpties upon the Collector's bond, -to the duties and obligations imposed
by the acts of Qongress, antecedentlypassed, thus
excluding the liability created by the subsequent
statutes. The second is, the direction of the Judge,
that the jury were at liberty to impute laches to
the Government, from the delay to call .the Collector to account, at the periods prescribed by
law, and the consequent injury to the sureties.
The third is, the direction,.that the.paymonts made
by the Collector might, under the circumstances,
be applied to the discharge of the balance due
from collections made under the acts which were
in force when the bond was given.
Liability
of
As to the first point. The Collector was apthe
Efureties
confned tothe pointed, under the act of the 22d of July, 1813,
duties aud obligations
ted
by thecreaacts Cl. 16., for the assessment and collection of direct
passedantece-taxes and internal duties. In the 2d section it
dent to the
date of the provides, " That one Collector, &c. shall be apbond.
pointed for each of the said collection districts,
,&c.; ard it the appointment of the said Collectors; or any of them, shall not be made during the
present session, the President of the United States
shall be, and is hereby, empowered to make such
appointment, during the recess of the Senate, by
granting commissions, which shall expire at the
end of their next session." The 18th sQction of
the same act further provides, "that each Collec-

OF THE UNITEM SrATEs.

tor, &c. shilI give bond; with one or more good 1824.
and sufficient sureties, &c. in at least double the U.Statm
v.
,iflountof the taxes assessed in the collection
irhpatrid
which
appointed,
be
may
he
which
district for
bond 9hall be payable to the United States, with
condition for the true and faithful discharge of the
duties of his office, according to law, and partioulariy- for the due collection and payment of all
moneys- assessed upon such district." The conditio'i of this bond principally refers, as will appear on an inspection of the act, to assessments
of direct taxes. But the s~bsequent acts, (act of
the 24th of July, 1813, ch. 21. s. 14., and ch. 24.
s.6., and ch. 25. s. 3. and s. 10., and the act of
the 3d'of August, 1813, ch. 38. s. 2. and s. 5.,.
and ch. 51. s.13.) laying internal duties, contain
provisions enlarging -the authority of the Colleetor- aid the act of 2d:of August, 1813, ch. 55.,
expressly extends the liability under tht bond, to
thb due collecti6n and payment of all' moheys atcrniig from-the duties laid by these acts. So that
theie is no doubt that, as to bonds subsequently
giveb, the language of.the condition is to receive
an interpretation'which shall secure the fidelity of
the Collect& under all these acts. The Collector, whose bond is in question, was appointed by
the Piesident, on the llth of November, 1815,
aLnd; by th .terms. of his'eommissicn, h9 was to
hold his office during the pleasure of the President,
" and until the end of the next session of the Senate of the: United States, and n longer." The
bohd-in question was given by the Collector, and
by the-defe-dants, as his- surdtie6. on the 4th of

CASES..IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

December, of.the same year; "anditfollows, in its
rcqu'emefitg of the act, 9f Congress.
.On the 24th of January, 1814, "the President,
vith theadvice and consent of. the Senate, re-

Sterms,'the

U. States

v.

Kirkpatrick

dppointed the pa'rty Collector, &e.;"and by his new
commission, he was to hold his office "during the
pleasure, of th6 President of the United Sthtes
for the time. bping." No new bond was taken
under thi commission. -Under these circumstances,- the District Jtvdge.held, that the liability of
ihe sureties, was strictly confined to the duties and
obligations created by the acts .passed antecedent
,to the :dat.e of the bond. And we are of opinion
that thisis th true construction of the condition of
the bond, Thero.is nothing in the original act,
under vwhich the appointment was niadae, which
.contemplates a permanent-and continuitg liability
for all duties un-der-all lawsv'vhidnlght be sub.sequently passed. ,InIts. ermns,.tih conditi9.p as
.expounded bythe, other,-p.oarts of the act, had a
,p'ineip~l rieference. to tle asseswbents of 'ilrect
taxes-; and it'is.extended fa-ther inits operation,
oly by the express and pos[itive directions. or theact-of' !d,of Augumt, 181% ch. 55. s..1 To 'this
extent, thereforei it may well boof force; but to
-go beyOnd. it, would be. to exceed the legiaatife
d-claration;,.and create a.general. whaee the" act
had fied a limited, .rtesponsibility. -If'the.argument on behalf of .the Government were correct,
the,provision; so solicitously'plac6d in this last Pet,
was .Wholly unnecssary; for the liabilitX would
*expand -withthe new'duties imposed by every succtssive act of the Legislature. But the act itself

OF THE UNITED STATES.

733

furnishes no ground for such an exposition; and 1824.
we do not feel ourselves at liberty to give to con- U. States
tracts, of this sort further efficacy than the laws
.Y.
and, the parties must have bad in their contempla- Kirkpatrick.
tion.
liability
This point, however, becomes of comparatively The
r he sureties
small importance in the cause, if another, which c,finted
to the
duration nf the
has been argued in this connexion, cannot be first cor-,i,maintained. We allude to the questibn as to the ion.
duration and force of the original commission of
the Collector. Strictly speaking, -this question
does not arise upon the present record. For, although the Court below decided, that, in point of
law, -both commissions constituted but one continuing appointment, the second .oinmissiQn operating only as a -confirmation of the firsi, yet, as
the verdict was found for the defendants on another ground, and no exception was taken by them'
it is not matter of error which can be assigned
upon'the present.dccasion. But, as it is manifest
that the same questipn must arise upon any subsequent trial, if 'there should be a teversal of the
judgment, and will form a most important, and,
perhaps, decisive, ground of argument; and as all
the parties are .desirous of our opinion on this
point' and it has been fully argued fipm its bearing on the other, points in the causd, and might
have been material, if our decision: on the first
.p6int had been di'erent,, we have no hesitation in
declaring'our opinion, that thi decision of the
Court bMlow was founded in mistake.
The act under which this appointment was made,
authorizes the President, ip the recess of tl)e Se-

75A

CASES 'IN'TlESUPRtEME COURT

1824.

nate,: tb mrikeappdintments, by granting-commisU. States Ssions, ithich'shallexpire at the end 'qf their next
v.
session. The first commission is, as has been alJirkpatrick; ready stated, in conformity to this provision of
the act, and is, by express.terms; limited to continue to the " end of the next session of the -Senate, and no longer." It follows, therefore, both
by the enactment of law and the form of the grant,
thatv the first commission -must have expired of
itself at that- period; and, as the next,sdssion df
the' Senate- endedin'April, 1814, that Iis, the uthbAst. extent to which it could reach. The bbnd
in question was given with express reference -tothis
commission'; and its. obligdtory force was, conse-

.quentlyl 'confined to acts.done .while .thht commidsion had a 'legdl continuance, and could' ndthgo
beyond it., And here.would :have bdeiithebnatura-ter'Mintition of Ithe liability. But, in the niean
time, a.-ew appointment was made by the, President, with the. advrice and consent of. the Snttte
and as'.soon as that was accepted, by the Colleotor,
it ,was a:vi.tual superseding and -surrefider'of the
former commission. The--two commissiong cannot be considered as one continuing appointment,
with6ut manifest irepugnaney. The- comwibsions
arenot only different in.
date;;and given luudet 'dif.ferent authoritiewand suretltsf;but they'are of different natures..- Thb -firsti linited in its duratktn
to 'a--specifi'ed period ;.the, second' is qnliv~ttdn
duratitnk and 'during the pleasure of the~resident,
If the latter operated, merely' as a-confimatlunlof
theformer, thenit confirmedituexistenwe o nly during the'original period fixed.. by the law. But

OF THE UNITED-STATES.

such an effect is not pretended, and would be ir- 1824.
reconcilable with the terms and intent of the commission. It has been suggested, that the practice
v.
atik
com-Kir
such
consider
to.
been,
has
of the Government
missions as one continuing commission. But whatever weight the practice of the Governnient may
be entitled to, in cases of doubtful construction, it
can have no influence to.change the clear language
of the law. In short, if the nomination to, and approval by the Senate, was a, mere confirmation,
and not equivalent to a niew appointment, -there
was no necessity for the second. commission; and
yet, the argument supposes, that it could not be
dispensed with; for if no commission bad been
issued, the first, by its own limitation, would have
expired.
Then, as.to-the point of laches, we ar.eof opinion impulable
Lachesnot
to
that the charge of the Court below, which suppo- tA Governses that laches will discharge the bond, cannot be me
maintained .s law. The general principle is, that
laches is not imputable to the Government;. and
this maxim is founded, not in the notion ^of extraordinary prerogative, but upon a great. public
policy. The government can transact its business only through its agents ; and its fiscal operations are so various, and its agencies so numerous
and scattered, that the utmost vigilance Would inot
save the public from"the Iiiost serious losses, if the
doctrine of laches can be applied to its transactions.. It-would, in effect, work a repeal of all its
securities. On the other hand, the mischiefs to
the agents and their sureties would be sparcely
less tolerable. -For if, where the laws, as in the

736

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.. present instance, requite qutirterly accounts' and
'~'sottlements,
a mere omission to account is to be
'U. States
. V. deemed a 'breach of the bond, for which a suit
4irkpauick. must b imnmedi.ately brought, upon the peril of
-logs from imputed. laches; the Collectors and their
gureties would be oppressed with.tne most expensive and vexatiods litigation; and their whole
teal estate, whicli by law is subjected to 6 lien, upwfl-the commencement of a suit,would be perpetually embarrassed in its transfers. This consideration of public or private inconvenience, is not to
overrule the settled principles of law, but it i certWinly entitled to great weight, where a new doctrine is to, be promulgated. It is-admitted, that
mere laches, unaccompanied with fraud, forms no
discharge of a contract 6f this nature, between
private individuals. Such is tle clear r9sult of the
authorities. Why, then, should a more rigid principle be applied to the government? a principle
-whichisat war with the general iudulgence allowed to its rights, which are ordinarily protected
iom the bars-arising'fom length of time and negligence ?. It is said, that the laws require, that

deftlements should be made at short and stated periods; and th at the sureties have a right tb look
to this as their security. But these pro.visions of
the law are created by the Government for its own
securityand protection, and to regulate the conduc t
of its owirofficers. They are merely directory to
such dflicers, and constitute no part of the contract
With the surety. The surety may place confidence
in the ageits of.the Go rernment, and rely on their'
fidelity in office ;-but he hu of this the sanre means

OF THE UNITED STATES.

787

of judgment as the* Government itself; and the 1824.
latter does not undertake to guaranty such fideliC
ty. No case has been cited at the bar, in support
of the doctrine, except that of. The Peoplev. Jansen, in 7 Johns.Rep. 332. In respect-to that case,
it may be observed, that it is distinguishable from
the present in some of its leading circumstances.
But if it -were not, we -are not prepared to yield to
its authority. It is encountered by other authorities, which have been cited at the bar; and the total silence in the English books, in a case of so
frequent occurrence, affords strong r ehson to believe, that it never has been supposed, that laches
would be fatal in the case cf" the Government,
where it-would not affect private persons. With out-going more at large into this question, w eare
ofopinion,-that the mere laches of the public officers constitutes no ground of discharge in the
present case;-

.

The last ground respects the manner in which Approprialon
the OtpCyamnm
the Court below laid down the law respecting
appropriation of payments. -In our opinion, there
is no error in the charge on this point. The general doctrine is, that the debtor has a right, if he
pleases, to make the appropriation of payments;
if he omits it, the creditor may make it; if both
omit it, the law will apply the payments, according to its own notions of justice. It is certainly
too late for either. party to claim a right to make
an appropriation, after the controvcrsy has arisen,
and afortioriat the time of the trial.. In cases
like the present, of long and running accounts,
where debits and. credits are perpetually occur-

Vat. IX.

93

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

739
1824.

ring, and no balances are otherwise adjdsted, than

" Osborn
"''-' for the mere purpose of making rests, we are ofopi-

V.
U. S. Bank.

nion, that payments ought to be applied to extinguish the debts according to the priority of time:
so that the credits fAre to be deemed payments pro
tanto of the debts antecedently due.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that for the error of the District Court, on the question of laches, the judgment ought to be reversed,
and a venirefacias de novo awarded, with directions, also, to allow the parties liberty to amend
their pleadings.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

OSBORN

COArcnY.]

and others, Appqllants,
V.

The

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES,

Respondents.

The act of incorporation of the Batik of the United States 'gives tho

Circuit Courts of the United bates jurisdiction of suits by and
against the Bank.
the charter is warranted 'by the 3d article of the
This provision irl
Constitution, which declares, that." the judicial power shall extend to all taes, in law and equity, arising under this Constittition,
the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority."
It is unnecessary for an attc-r y or solicitor, who prosecutes a sUit for
the Bank of the United States, or other corporatihu, to produce a
warrant of attorney under the corporate seal.
'Whatever authority may be necessary for an attorney or solicitor to
appear for a natural or *artificial person, it is not a ground of re-

