OF THE UNITED STATES.

1824.
Peyton
V.
tJURIsJJ

PEYTON

v.

.CTIor.]

Robertson.

ROBERTSON.

In replevin, if it be of goods distrained for rent, the amount for which
avowry is made, is the value of the matter in controversy; and if
tile writ be issued to try the title to property, it is in the nature of
detinue, and the value of the article:replevied is the value of the
matter in contrdversy, so as to give jui'isdiction to this Court upon
a writ of error.

Mr. Chiefs Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia, rendered for the sum of 591 dollars. The writ was
dismissed in the early part of the term, for want
of jurisdiction, the judgment being for less than
1000' dollars. The plaintiff in error now moves
to reinstate the cause, alleging that the damages
laid in the declaration, not the amount of the
judgment, is the matter in controversy between
the parties.
The property of the plaintiff in error had been
seized for rent, upon which shu sued out a writ of
replevin, and laid her damages in the declaration
at 1000 dollars. The defendant in error acknowledged the taking charged in the declaration, and
justified it as a distress for the sum of 591 dollars,
due for rent in arrear. The judgment of the.
Court was in favour of the avowant, for the amount
of the rent'claimed.

March 17th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
\was

Peytonw

The plaintiff in error contends, that her suit

not merely for restitution of the property

V. taken, but also for damages, and that, in such a
Robertson. case, the value of the matter in dispute is the
sum laid in the declaration.
Her counsel relied on the case of Huiscamp v.
Tecl, (2 Dallas,358.) and on Cook v. Woodrow,
(5 Cranch, 13.) to show that, in actions sounding
in damages, the sum laid in the declaration is tho
standard of Value. The case in Dallas, was. an
action of trespass, and that in Cranch, an action
of trover. We think this case stands on different
principles from either of those. In a writ of replevin, the real matter in controversy is the sum
claimed as rent, or the property replevied. If the
replevin be, as in this case, of property distrained
for rent, the amount for which avowry is made
is the real matter in dispute. The damages are
merely nominal. If the writ be issued as ameans
of trying the title to property, it is in the nature of
de tinue, and the value of the article replevied is
the matter in dispute. In this case, the judgment
against the plaintiff in* error being for less than
1000 dollars, this Court has no jurisdiction, and
the motion to replace the cause on the docket
must. be overruled.
Motion denied.

