59t

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1824.
[INsTA CE COURT.

SLAVE

TnA-n Acas.]

The Merino,

The MERwNo. The CoNSTITuTioN. The LouisA.
-BARRIA,

and others, Claimants.

The technical niceties of the common law are not regarded in Admiralty proceedings. It is sulficient, if an .information st forth
the offence so as clearly to bring it within the statute upon which
the information is founded. It is not necessary that it should coaclude cantraformanstatuti.
The District Court of the District .where the seizure was made, and
not where the offence wai committed, hasjurisdiction of proceedings in rem for an alleged forfeiture.
If the seizure is made on the high seas, or within the territory of a
foreign power, the jurisdiction is conferred on the Court of the
District where the property is carried and proceeded against.
A municipal seizure, within.the territory of a foreign power, does net
oust the jurisdiction of the District Court into whose District the
property may be carried for adjudication.
The prohibitions in the'Slaye Trade Acts of the 10th of May, 1800,
e. 205. [li.]
and. of the>20th uf April, 1818, extend as well
to the carrying of slaves o freightb,. as to cases where 1he
persons transported are the' property. of citizens of the Unitea
States; and to the carrying them from one port to another of the
same foreign empire, as well as. from dne foreign country to
another.

Under the 4th section of the act of the f0th of'May, 1800, c. 05.[l.]-the owner of the slaves transportea contrary to the provisions
of that act, cannot claim the same in a Court of the United States,
although they may be held in servitude. according to the laws of
his-own country. But if, at the time of the capture by a commis.sioned vessel, the offending ship was in possession of a non-commissioned captor, who had made a seizure for the same offence, the
owner ofthe-slaves may claim ; the Lection only applying to persons interested in the enterprise or yoyage in which the ship was
employed at the time of nvh capture.

APPEAL from the District Court of Alabama.
These were the cases of several vessels, and their

d al:

CASES IN THE SUPREMkR COURT

cargoes of African slaves. The information filed
Sin
the case of the Constitutionwas, as well on
Merino,

1824.
The

el at.

behalf of the United States, as of George M.

Brooke, a colonel in the army of the United States.
The first count, after stating the seizure of this
vessel, with a valuable cargo on board, and eightyfoul African slaves, by the said Brooke, on waters
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten tons burthen and upwards, alleges, that the said vessel,
being a vessel of the United States, owned by
citizens of the United States, was employed in
carrying on trade, business or traffic, contrary to
the true intent of an act of Congress, passed on
the 10th of May, 1800, entitled, "an act to prohibit the carrying on of the slave trade from the
United States to any foreign place or country,"
that is to say, was employed or made-use of in the
transportation of slaves from one foreign country
to another, viz., from Havanna -to Pensacola, both
places belonging to the king of Spain, contrary to
the form of the said act, whereby the said vessel
and her cargo became forfeited.
It was admitted, by the counsel for -the respondents, thai the second and third counts were unsupported by the evidence, and they were, therefore,
abandoned.
The fourth count charges, that certain citizens
of the United States did, in June, 1818, take on
board, or transport from one foreignplace or country to another, certain negroes,.in a vessel, for the
purpose-of holding, selling, or otherwise disposing
of them as slaves, or to be held to labour or seIvice. In the case of the Merino, the information

OF THE UNITED STATES.

393

contains three counts, the second of which alone 1824,
was relied upon by the counsel- for the respon- Th
The Mi
MIeino,
dent, and this states, that on the
day of June,
da
1818, certain citizens of the United States received on board of the said vessel, belonging to
citizens of the United States, and transported
from one foreign place or country, viz. from Cuba
to Pensacola, a certain number of negroes, for
the purpose of holding the said negroes as slaves;
and that the said vessel, with her cargo, and the
negroes, were, on the 21st of June, 1818, seized
on the high seas by Capt. M'Keever, commander
of the United States ketch Surprise, and were
brought into the District of Mobile, for a violation
of the laws of the United States, and particularly
of the 4th section of the act of 1818.
The information in the case of the Louisa and
her cargo, was substantially the same as the
one last mentioned, the second count being also
founded on the 4th section of the act of 1818.
The evidence in these cases established the following facts, viz. that the above vessels, owned
by citizens of the United States, and registered
as such, sailed from certain ports in the United
States to Havana, where they each received on
board certain goods, as also a number of slaves,
newly imported from the coast of Africa, the latter belonging to subjects of Spain, residents either of Havana or Pensacola, to be transported
from the former to the latter place. The Merino
cleared out at Havana on the 2d of June, 1818,
for Mobile, and the Constitution and Louisa, on
the 10th of the same month, for New-Orleans.
VOL. fX.
50

CASES JR THE SUPREME COURT •

162L
taL

The owners of these vessels,, however, engaged
to land the slaves at Pensacola, on their respective voyages to New-Qrleans. and Mobile. On
their arrival within, or near to, the bay of Pensacola, that' place .waf found in possession of the
American army, under.the command of Gen. Jackson. The Merino was seized by the United States
ketch. Surprise, commanded by Capt. M'Keeverp
within a mile'and a half of fort Barancas, inside
the bari and within the harbour of Pensacola.
The Constitution was taken possession of by Col.
Brooke, of the United States army, under the
guns of fort Barancas, then in possession of the
United States forces. The Louisa was captured
by Capt. M'Keever, in the ketch before mentioned,
outside of the bar at Pensacola, standing in.
These vessels, with their goods on board, and
the negroes, were sent; to the district of Mobile
for adjudication. The Constitution, haying on'
board an agent of Col. Brooke, was boarded off
Mobile point by the United States revenue bat,
and was carried in and reported by Capt. Lewis,
commanding said boat, to the' Collector, as having
been seized by him, the agent reporting the .seizure. as having been made by Col. Brooke.
1T informations against. these vessels and
their oargoes, were filed in the General Court for
the territory of Alabama, from whence the. proceedings were removed into the District Court of
Alabama,, where the vessels and 'their cargoes
were severally condemned as forfeited to the
United Statei,. but the distribution was reserved
for-the future order of the Court. From these

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sentences of condemnation, the claimants of the
vessels and the cargoes appealed to this Court.

3911,
1824.
The Merino

et al;

Mr. -. J. Ingersoll, for the appellants, (L.) ar- Feb. COL
gued upon the facts, to show that the transactiofls
were in good faith; that Pensacola was the real
destination of the persons transported, who were
slaves by the laws of Spain established in the
island of Cuba: that there was no intention of
introducing them into the United States, contrary to our laws. but that they were bound from
one Spanish colony to auother, under a license
from the local government. (2.) That the temporary occupation of Pensacola, in 1818, by the
troops of the United States, under Gen. Jackson,
was not such a conquest in war as changed the
national character of" the province of Florida,
but was a mere incursion into the country, for
the purpose of chastising the Indian savages,
and depriving them of succours and a. place of
refuge. The principle, that a.lawful conquest in
war has the effect of suspending the operation of
the local laws of the place, and of establishing
such others. as the conqueror thinks fit to substitute; was incontestable, but could not apply to
such a case as that before the Court.a The United States were not at war .wth Spain ; and even
if they had been, the. occupation of the Spanish
territory by their arms would not change the jurisdiction, -until its possession was confirmed by a
a The United States v. Hayward, 2 GaXL Rep. 501. United
States v. Rice, 4 n7eat. Rt. 246, The Foltina, Dodson's 4dm.
Rep. 450.

S96

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
,

treaty of peace." But, according to our municix, pal constitution, even if the territory had been
et al.
ceded by' treaty; it would require an act of Congress to apply the laws of trade for its government.
(3.) The slave act of 1800, c. 205., does not
affect-the slaves transported, unless they belong
to the owner of the vessel. Besides, it merely
prohibited their -transportation from one foreign
country to another, and not from one place of the
same country to another. This was the case of a
removal of slaves, who were such by the 'laws of
the island, from Cuba to another Spanish colony.
Since the enactnent of the first law on the subject, in 1794, down to the present time, the 'policy of the.National Legislature has been limited
to the suppression of the slave trade, (properly
so called,) and to prevent, as far as could be done,
the bringing into a state of servitude those persons who were free in their own country; and
since the condition of persons who are already
slaves, cannot be changed or made worse, by
Their removal from" one slave-holding country to
another, the statutes ought not to be so construed
as to prohibit citizens of the United States from
being concerned in such removals. (4.) The District Court of Alabama had no jurisdiction of these
causes, under the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
s. 9., since the seizure was made, neither upon
the high seas, nor upon waters navigable from the
sea, within the district, but it was made within
a Grotius de S. B. ac P. lib. 3. c. 6. s. 4, 5. par Barbeyr. toip.
2. p. 786.' Mabb, Drait de VEurope. tom. 1. c. 2. p. 144.

397

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the territorial jurisdiction of a foreign power. 1824.
The waters where this seizure was made, form no The
e Blerinq,
"e'o
part of the "high seas."' He also insisted, that etal.
no regular Admiralty prodess had issued in the
Court below, and that the informations were defective, in not concluding contra formam statuti,
and, at the same time, not containing any express reference to the statutes under- which the
proceedings were commenced.
The Attorney-General and Mr. Kelly, contra,(1.) insisted, thatthere was no ground for limiting
the operation of the slave trade acts in the manner
proposed on the part of the appellants. Foreigners cannot be permitted, with impunity, to employ
our shipping in the transportation of slaves. The
acts of Congress may attach to Ameripan vessels,
wherever they may be, or however employed.
Both the vessels and the slaves had here-committed an offence, in the eye of the law, for which it
pronounced a forfeiture, without regard to the national character of the owners of ship or cargo.
Foreigners are bound to know, and are supposed
to know, our laws of trade, in all cases where those
laws may be justly applied.; and they may be justly
applied to the. conduct of our vessels, whether in
our own ports, in foreign ports, or on the high seas.
Under the statutes now in question, it is not necessary that the two foreign ports or places, between whicht the 'traffic is carried on, should be in
a United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Vheat. Rep. 93.
States v. Pirates, Id. 200.

United

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

different foreign countries or empires.

Much.of

The Merino, the slave trade was carried on from European face oi. tories on the coast of Africa to the colonies of the

same nation in the West Indies or South America; and could there -be a doubt, that this trade
was meant to be prohibited by Congress ; It is
sufficient to satisfy the words of the statute, if the
two places are foreign with respect to the United
States. Nor is it material, whether the American
owner of the vessel has any proprietary interest
in the slaves or not. Whether they are carried
as his property for sale, or to be held to service, or
are transported on freight for the slAve merchant, or
owner, the forfeiture equally attaches to vessel and
cargo. (2.) By the 4th section of the act of 1800, c.
205. the claimants, if interested in the enterprise or
voyage in which the vessel is employed, are expressly excluded from restitution of ,the slaves
which belong to them. But here it may be doubted, whether they have proved any proprietary interest, which will entitle them to restitution. The
onus probandiwas on them.

They must show,

by positive evidence, that those persons were
slaves according to the laws of Spain, and that
they had a right to carry them from one colony to
another, by those laws. Foreign laws are matters
of fact, and as such, must be proved, according to
the rules of evidence -applicable to them, whether
written or unwritten. (3.) It was not meant to be
contended, that the United States acquired any sovereignty or jurisdiction over the Spanish territoiy,
byits temporary occupation. It wasunneqessary to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M~

maintain such aposition. Here was afriudulent at- 1824,
tempt to violate ourlaws, by transportipg those per- _ len
sons from the Island of Cuba, with'a colourble
etaL
destination, for another Spaiiiskcolony, but with the
real intention of introducing them into the United
States. In order to give the District Court of Alabama jurisdiction, it is immaterial where theoffence was committed; and it is equally immaterial
where the seizure was made, provided it "was not
made in any other distript of the. United States.
In any other case, jurisdiction is &4 ven to the Court
within whose district the property is carried for
*adjudication. -The trespass on the Spanish territory cannot be so connected with the subsequent
seizure, under the process of the Courtbelow, as. to
invalidate the seizure.a If there was any offence
against the sovereignty of Spain in the. original
seizure, that is a matter to be. adjusted between
the two governments.

Mr. Justice WASHtNGTON delivered the opinion
oftheCourt; and, after stiting the case, proceeded
-to enhmerate the objections made by the .zouul
a. The Richmond, 9 Cranc, 1(2.

b The counsel was proceeding to argue the question asuto the
right of Colonel Brooke, as a non-commissioned captr, or Wzoro
but was stopped by the Court, upon the suggestion, that the dto-crees of the Court below had reserved the question of distribution
of the proceeds of the sezurefor its further directions, as in cases
of prize and other Admiralty proceedings; qnd that nothing War'
before this Court upon-the preaset appeal, but the.questlon of for-

felture.

,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

for-the appellants, to the several decrees of the
Tho Merino, Court below.
at d.
1. That the regular Admirttlty process was not
issued in these cases.2. That the informations do not conclude against
the form of the statute.
3. That the Disttict Court of Alabama had
not jurisdiction, the seizue's having been made,
not. within the waters of that State, oton the high
seas, but within the jurisdiction of a foreign nation.
4. That the acts of Congress, on which these
informations are founded, were intended to apply
exclusively to the suppression of the slave trade,
from'the coast of Africa, or elsewhere, for the
purpose-of holding or disposing of the subjects of
the trade, as slaves, and not to the carrying of
them, when in. a state of slavery, from one foreign
country to another.
1. That the proceedings in these cases were
not conducted with the regularity usually observed
in Admiralty. causes, must be admitted. But the
Court is of opinion, that all objections of this nature were waived, by the appearance of thb parties
interested in the property seized, and filing their
claims-tot-he;same. In each case, a warrant issued
to the Marshal to -seize the' property libelled, and
to cite and admonish all persons claining an interest in the samei to appear before the Court,.
hnd to show cause why the same, should not be
condemned, as -forfeited to the United States.
This process wtis returned executed, and claiws
*ere interposed for the sQveral vessels and their

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cargoes, by the asserted owners thereof. Upon 1824.
the strictest rules which govern in Courts of corn- The Mxerino
d4
mon law, objections to the regularity of the process, to enforce an appearance, would be considered as removed by the appearance of the party,
and pleading to the merits.2. The second objection - is without foundation, infact, in relation to the information against
the Constitution and her cargo; and we think it
inadmissible in point of law, in the other two
cases; the count relied upon in those informations
stating expressly, that the seizure was made for a
violation of the-,th section of the act of 1818, the
title of which is accurately set forth. For all the
purposes of justice, and of notice to- the claimant
of the charge which he was called upon to answer,
this must be deemed sufficient; and the addition
of the technical words, contra formam statuti,
is altogether formal and unnecessary. In the
cases of the Samuel, (1 Wheat. Rep. 9.) and the
Hoppet, (7 Cranch,389.) it was obser-ed by this
Court, that technical niceties of the common law,
as to informations, which are ifnimportant in themselves, and stand oply Q precedents, are not regarded in Admiralty information; the material inquiry in the latter cases being, whether the offence is.so set forth; as clearly to bring it within
the statute upon which the information is founded.
3. The objection raised to the jurisdiction of
the Distridt Court -of. Alabama, is principally
grounded upon the 9th section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, c. 20. which provides, "that the
District Courts shall have exclusive original cog:VOL. IX.

51

CASES IN THE SUPREME, COURT

14.
at a.

nizance of all civil-causes of Admiralty and martime jurisdiction, including- all seizures under
laws of impost, navigation or trade of the United
States, where the seizures are made on waters
which are navigable from the sea, by vessels of
ten or moro tons burthen, within their respective
districts, as well as upon the high seas.,' It is
contended, that the seizures in these cases, were,
not made upon the -high seas, or upon waters
within. the District of Alabama, and, theiefore,
the jurisdiction was not conferred- on that Court.
The se9tion above recited, marks out, not only the
general jurisdiction of the District Courts, but that
of the several District Courts in relation to each
other, in cases of seizures on waters of the United States, navigable from the sea, by vessels of
a particular burthen. If made within the waters
of one district, the jurisdiction attaches to the
Court of that district, and the suit must be there
prosecuted. The jurisdiction, in these cases, is
given to the Court. of the district, not where the
offence was committed, but where the seizure is
made. But where the seizure is -made on the
high seas, the jurisdictiob is conferred upon no particular District Court, and it may, therefore, be ex.ercised by -theCourt of any district into which the
property is carried, and there proceeded against.
In like manner, if. the seizure be made within-the
waters of a foreign nation, as was done in these
cases, cognizance of the cause, is .*given, under
the general expressions of the section, as to civil
cases of Admiralty aqd maritime jurisaiction,-.to
the Court of the district into. which-.the property

OF THE UNITED STATES.

403-

is conducted, and-on which the prosecution is in- 1824.
T Merlaor
hPr
• The
stituted. The illegality of the service in this latter-ease, has nothing to do with the.question of cl a.
jurisdiction, as was decided by this Court, in the
case of the -Richmond. .(9 ranc, 102.)
4. The last objection involves the merits of
these causes. In the case of the Constitution, the
counsel for the appellees rely upon the first and
fourth counts in the information.; and, in the two
other cases, on the second count. But, we think,
that the lirst count, in the first of these cases,
must be put out of view; because, although it
tstates the
charges a violation of the act of 1794, -offence within the words of the act of the 10th of
May, 1800; and yet it alleges it to have been commiftedoontrary to the form of the act of 1794i the title of which is ospecially recited. This was, -no
doubt, a mistake of the proctor; but it partakes too
much of substance to be the foundation of a sentence of condemnation, in a case so highly penal
as this -is. But,. that count is not, in the opinion
of-the Court,. material to-the decision of.that case,
because, -we are all of dpinion .that -the' fofirth
cotint is fully supported:-by the evidence in thd
cause, and'warrants the Sentence of condemnation
pronoduned byp the inferior Court. This count is
stribtly.within the 4th-section of the act of 18-18;
udtd'o is the second count in the informations
against the Merino and Louisa, and'their cargoes.
':-The argument relied upon by the counsel for thd
appllaits, zwas, that.the policy of our-laws;'from
the year 1794, down to the :latest act of qlegislgion, has- been- confined to the suppressiori, of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
,,

'-

-Jhe Merino,

the slave trade, and to prevent, as far as could bef
done, the bringing into bondage those persons

dat. ,who were free in their own country; -and, that
since the condition of persons already slaves cannot be changed or made worse, by their removal
from one slave-holding country to another, the
.acts of 1800 and 1818, ought not to be.so construed, as to prohibit citizens of the United States
being concerned in such removals.
It may well be doubted, whether even the act of
1794, the firstr which passed upon this subject, can
fairly receive the narrow construction which is
contended for, since it prohibits the fitting of vessels within the United States, not only for the
purpose of procuring from any foreign kingdom
the inhabitantsthereof, to be transported to some
foreign country, to be disposed of as slaves, but
also for the purpose of carrying on any trade or
traffic in slaves, to any foreign country, apparently embracing .the two cases of free persons of colour, whose condition ischanged by being brought
into a state of slavery, and also pqrsons alread5
slaves, and intended to be used as subjects of
traffic. Be this as it may, the language of the
acts of 1800 and 1818, leaves no reasonable doubt,
that the intention of the Legislature was to prevent citizens of, or residents within, the United
States, from affording any facilities to this trade,
although they shoufd have no interest or property
in the slaves themselves, and although they should
not be immediately instrumental to the transportatior of them from their native country. By the
former of these laws, the offence ismade to con-

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

405

sist in the .employment of a vessel belonging to 1824.
citizens of the United States, or to persons reasi- The Merino,
d al.
dent within the same, in carrying slaves from one
foreign country or place to another, no matter for
what purpose. By the latter, it consists in the
taking on board, or transporting from Africa, or
from any foreign. country or place, any negro, &c.,
in any vessel, for the purpose of holding or disposing of such person as a slave, or to be held to
service, &c., where those acts are performed by
citizens of, or residents within-the United States.
It cannot be questioned, but that the case of the
Constitution, .asstated in the information, and proved-by the evidence, is literally within the provisions of the latter act. The slaves seized in that
vessel, were taken on board of her by a citizen of
the United States, in one foreign place, for the purposh of their being held to-service or labour. The
Court do notfeel themselves justified in restraining
the general expression of this law, upon the ground
,of a supposed policy, the reality of which, to say
the most of it, ia very questionable. The sentence,
therefore, of the Court below, in the case of this
vessel.and her cargo, must be affirmed.
The same decision would, of course, be made
in the cases of the M~rino and the Louisa, and
their cargoes, if it were not for the circumstance,
that the second count in the informations against
those vessels 'alleges, that the citizens of the
United States, who took the slaves on board at the
Havana, did so for the purpose of holding them as
slaves, which allegation is not proved by the evidence in those cases. They were taken on board

406
1824.
ital.

CASES IN TIM SUPREME COURT

merely as passengers, to be delivered at PensacbI their owners, or to those to whom they were
la.to
consigned. The sentences in those iwo cabes
must, therefore, be reversed, and the causes remitted to th6 District Court, with directions to permit the libellants to amend, it beihg obvious to
this Court, from the evidence, that the negroes taken on board of those vessels,- were transported
for the purpose of their.beingheld to service.
. The three remaining cases, present the claine
of the asserted owners of the slaves transported in
the above vessels, from Havana to Pensacola,
which were brought before the C6urt below, in the
form of libels for restitution. To these libels no
claims were filed, aid the sentence of thb Court in
each of the cases, was; "that the slaves remain
subject to the laws of Alabama ;" from which decision appeals were taken ; and as they amount,
substant: ly, to a dismission of the libels, it becomes necessary to examine thei" correctness.
The ownership of the slaves, as claimed by the'
respective libellants, appears to the Court to be
sufficiently established. It is in proof, that slaverywas, and is, perrr:'ted to exist in the Island'of
Cuba, either by particular ordinances of the Spanish government, or by custom ; that the slaves
in question were" imported into that island from
Africa by Antonio de Frias, and, were shipped at
Havana -for Pensacola by these libellants, as their
property, under a passport regularly granted by
the Governor-General bf Cuba; the slaves claimed by the libellants, other thAn Frias, having been
purchased from him by those libellants. It would

OF THE UNITED STATES.

seem. unreasonable to.require other pr better proof 1824.
-ofownership, in property of this description, than "'I
.these facts finnish.
CI a.
Theonly question, then, is, whether these.persons are prevented from- claiming restitution of
these slaves by any law of the United States. The
only act which bears upon this subject, is that of
the 10th of May, 1800, the 4th sectidn of.which,
after -declaring that .it should be JWful for
any of the commissioned .vesgels of the United
States, to seize any vessel employed in carrying on
trade, business, or traffic, contrary to the intent
and meaningof that act, or the act of 1794, enacts,
that "all persons interested in such vessel, or in
the enterprise or voyage in which' such vessel jphall
be employed, at the time of such oapture, shall be
precluded from all right or claim to the slaves
found on board such vessel, and from all ddmages
or retribution: on account thereof." .There can be
no question, but that this section is strictly applicablq to the claimants of.the slaves, on board the
Merino: and Louisa, those ' esselshaving been si.
zed whilst employed in car'ying on trade forbidden .by the Act.of 1800,by a.ioxmissioned vessel
of the United States. The-case of the claimants
ofthe slavesbn board of the -Constitution, is'different.. That vessel, with her cago, was seized in
6ebay-of Pensacola by a military officer, and was
conducted by his agent to Mobile, for the purpose
.of-being libelled for his ise. The 1st section of this
act which declares the forfeiture ofany vessel belongingt6acitizen ofthe United Statesemployed in
transportingslavesfiom one foreign country t9ano-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

ther, contains a provision, that the said vessel may
T
ro rino, be libelled
T eM
.
... and condemned for the use of
. -the person
ef al.
who shall sue for the. same. The right to seize
the vessel, and slaves on board, would seem to be
a necessary consequence of the right to enforce
the forfeiture. The possession of the vessel, then,
being lawfully vested in Col. Brooke, at the. time
she was boarded by the revenue boat, off Mobile
Point, it could not, with any propriety, be asserted,
that she was employed in carrying on trade, contraryto law, at .the time she was so boarded.
Her employment in such trade was com)letely
terminated by the first seizure, and she was on
her way for adjudication when the second seizure
was made. If, under these circumstances, a capture of the vessel could not be legally made by the
revenue boat, then the claims of the owners of
the slaves on boardl, is not precluded by the 4th
section of the act of 1800; the sentence above
quoted applying only to persons interested in
the voyage in which the vessel was employed at the
time of such capture.
The Court is, t'herefore, of opinion, that in the
case of Antonio de Frias and David Nagle against
eighty-four African slaves, the sentence of the
Court below is erroneous, and ought to be reversed, and that a decree of restitution ought to
be made.
Sentence in the case of the Constitution affirmed. Sentence§ ih the cases of the Louisa
and Merino reversed, with leave to amend. Sentence reversed as to the claim of Frias and Nagle.
and restitution decreed

