579

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1824.
Onited States
[PRACTICE.)

V.

Perez.

The UNITED

STATES V. JOSEF PEREZ.

The discharge of the jury from giving a verdict in a capital case,

without the consent of the prisoner, the jury being unable to agree.
is not a bar to a subsequent trial for the same offence.
The Court is invested with the discretionary authority of discharging
the jury from giving any verdict, in cases of this nature, whenever,
in their opinion, there is a manifest necessity fbr such an act, or
the ends of public justice would otherwise be defeated.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Mar-c, l7t&
Court.
This cause comes up from the Circuit Court

for the southern district of New-York, upon a certificate of division in the opinions of the Judges of
that Court. The prisoner, Josef Perez, was put
upon trial for a capital offence, and the jury,
being unable to agree, were discharged by the
Court from giving any verdict upon the indictment, without the consent of the prisoner, or of
the Attorney for the United States. The prisoner's counsel, thereupon, claimed his discharge as
of right, under these circumstances ; and this forms
the point upon which the Judges were divided. The
question, therefore, arises, whether the discharge
of the jury by the Court from giving any verdict
upon the indictment, with which they were charged, without the consent'of the prisoner, is a bar
to any future trial for the same offence. If it be,
then he is entitled to be discharged from custody;
if not, then he ought to be held in imprisonment

580

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

until such trial can be bad. We arc of opinion,
that the facts constitute no legal bar to a future
Uni-.,,-at,
t.a trial.
The prisoner has not been convicted or acPerez.
quitted, and may again be put upon his defence.
1824.

We think, that in all cases of this nature, the law
has invested Courts of justice with the authority
to discharge a jury from giving any verdict, whenevrer, in their opinion, taking all the circumstances
into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for
the act, oi -the ends of public justice would otherwise be defeated. They are to exorciso a sound
discretion on the subject; and it is impossible to
define all the circumstances, which would render
it proper to interfere. To be sure, the power
ought to be used with the greatest caution, under
urgent circumstainces, and for very plain and obvious causes; and, in capital cases especially,
Courts should be extremely careful how they interfere, with any of the chances of life, in favour of
the prisoner. But, after all, they have the right
to order the discharge; and the security which
the public have for the faithful, sound, and conscientious exercise of this discretion, rests, in this,
as in other cases, upon the responsibility of the
Judges, under their oaths of office. We are aware
that there is some diversity of op;nion and practice on this subject, in the American Courts; but,
after weighing the question with due deliberation,
we are of opinion, that such a discharge constitutes
no bar to further proceedings, and gives no right
of exemption to the prisoner from being again put
upon trial. A certificate is to be directed to the
Circuit Court, in conformity to this opinion.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

581

CERTIFICATE.
This cause caine on, &c. On 1824.
consideration whereof, itisOiRDERED bytheCourt,
V.
that-it be certified to the Circuit Court of the Dislum oac.
trict of New-York, that, under the circumstances Bank
stated in the record, the prisoner, Josef Perez, is
not entitled to be discharged from custody, and
may again be put to trial, upon the indictmentfound
against him, and pending in the said Court,

"[PRommssonY NoKT. EVIDENCE.

PLEA.D uG. LoCAL LAw]

RNNER, Plaiitiff in Error
V.

The

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF COLUMBIA,

Defendants in Er'or.

By the custom of the banks in the District of Columbia, payment of:
a promissory note is to bi- demanded on the fourth day after the
time limited for the payment ther-eof, in order to.charge. the endorser, contrary to the general law merchant. which requires a demand on the third day.
Evidence of such a local custom is admissible in order to ascertain
the undcrstanding of the partied, with respect to their contracts
made with reference to it.
Cases in which evidenpce of commercial usage is admissible, in order
to ascertain the meaning of contracts.
The declaration against the endorser, in such a case, must. lay the
. demand on the fourh, and not on the taird day.
Quire, Whether a declaration, in such a case, not averiting the local
usage, would be good upon demurrer?
Secondary evidence of the contents of written instruments is admissibte wherever it appears thatthe original is destroyed, or lo, by
accident, •withont any fault of the party.

