OF THE UNITED STATES.

469
1824.
Hughes
V.

[CffraqczRY. ArlEN.
HUGHES

MORTGAGE.]

and others, Appellants,
Y.

EDWARDS

and Wife, Respanderts.

Where the mortgage deed contained a defeasance that the mortgagor
should pay the debt, according to the condition of a bond recited
in the deed, by which it was payable on a day already past, at the
time of the execution of the deed, hld that this circumstance did
not avoid the mortgage deed in equity, where it was to be considered as a conveyance, absolute at law, but iqtended as a security
merely, and to be treated in the same manner as an ordinary mortgage.
A Court of equity looks to the substantial object of the conveyance,
and will consider an absolute deed as a mortgage, wherever it is
shown to have been intended merely as a security for the payment
of a debt.
In the case either of a legal or equitable mortgage, the mortgagee
may pursue his legal remedy by ejectment, and, at the same time,
file his bill to foreclose the equity of redemption.
Under the 9th article of thetreaty between the United States and Great
Britain, of 1794, it is not necessary for the alien to show that he
was in the actual possession or seisin of the land, at the date of
the treaty, which applies to the title, whatever that may be, and
gives it the same legal validity as if the parties were citizens. The
title of an alien mortgagee is protected by the treaty.
But, independent of the stipulations of the treaty, an alien mortgagee
has a right to come into a Court of equity, and have the property,
which has been pledged for the payment of the debt, sold for the
purpose of raising the money. His demand is merely a personal
one, the debt being considered as the principal, and the land as
an incident.
A mortgago cannot redeem after a lapse of twenty years, after forfeiture and possession by the mortgagee, (which period has been
adopted in equity by analogy to the statute of limitations,).no iterest having been paid in, the mean time, and no circumstance
appearing to account for the neglect.
VOL. IX.
62

Edwatds.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824
tighes
V.
Edwards.

Where the mortgagee brings his bill of foreclosure,, the mortgage
-.will, after the same length of time, be presumed to have been discharged, unless circumstances can be shown to repel the presumption, as, liayment of interest, a promise to pay, an acknowledgment by the mortgagor that the mortgage is still subsisting, and
the like.
A bonce jei purchaser under the mortgagor, with actual notice of
the mortgage, or constructive notice by means of a registry, can
only protect himself, by the lapse of. tjhine or othdr equity, under
the same circumstances which wouladafkdrd ,a protebtion to the
mortgagor.
Such a purchaser is not entitled to have the valto of ihe improvements made by him deducted from the proceeds of the sale ol
the.mortgaged premises.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
Feb. 28th.

March

This cause was argued by Mr, Clay,", for the
appellants, and by Mr. Wicklife, for the respondents.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree in equity of the
Circuit C.ourt for the district of Kentucky. Edwards and wife, the plaintiff in the Court below,
filed their bill in that Court, on the 8th of June,
1816, in which they charge, that the female plaintiff, before her coverture, advanced, by way of loan,
to James Hughes, her brother, the sum of £770
2s. 4d., tor which he gaye his bond, bearing date
the 10th of September, 1793, with condition to pay
the same on the 12th of the same month; And for
securing the said debt, she took from the said
a He cited Foster v. Hodgson, 19 Vee. 184.
Clinton, Jac. JYWalk.

Cholmondeley v.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Hughes a mortgage upon sunidry lots, situate in 1824.
Lexington,. in Kentucky, which are particularly destribed. It further charges, that the debt still
-.
remains due and unpaid ;-and that the defendant, Edward

-tughes,subsequent to the execution of the mortgage deed, had sold part of the mortgaged premisea to Gabriel Tandy, David and James M'Gowan,
Robert Wilson, Samuel Patterson, James Wilson and John Anderson, John Parker, and William Bowman, all of whom are alleged to hav(
purchased with legal notice of the plaintiff's lien
on the said property, the deed having been duly
recorded in the County Court of Fayette, agreeably to law. The mortgagor, and the purchasers
under him, all of whom are stated to be citizens of
Kentucky, are prayed to be made defendants; and
the prayer of the bill is, that the defendants may
be decreed to pay the aforesaid debt, with interest,
&c. ; and on failure, that the equity of redemption of the defendants be foreclosed, and:the.mortgaged property decreed to be sold, to satisfy the
said. debt, &c. The bill alleges the plaintifb.to
bteliens, and subjects of the King of Great Britain. The deed of mortgage, dated the 14th of
February, 1794, which (as well as the bond referred to in it) is made an exhibit, contains a defeasauce, that the mortgagor should pay th~e said sum
of£770 2s. 4d., with lafwul interest thereon, according to the condition of the bond recited in it.
It was duly proved and recorded in the County
Court of Fayette, on the 11 th of March, 1794.
Tandy and Patterson severally answered this
bill, each of them admitting himself to be ihpos-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. session of certain parts of the mortgaged premi%-0nughes ., ses,, under a boniafide conveyance, for valuable
v.
consideration paid, from the mortgagor, or others
Rdwards. claiming under him, and without notice
of the
mortgage, other than the constructive notice given
by the record of the same. They allege the con:
tinued possession of the mortgaged preniises, from
the date of the mortgage, by the said Hughes, or
those claiming by purchase under him ; and rely
upon the length of time, and uninterrupted possession, as grounds for presuming that the debt
has been paid, or released, in bar of the relief
sought.
M'Gowan, and Hughes, the mortgagor, having
died pending the suit, the guardians ad litem of
their heirs and representatives severally answered,
not admitting any-of the charges in the bill, and
relying upon the presumption of payment, or a
release of the debt, from length of time.
The bill was dismissed, as to all the defendants,
except Hughes' heirs, Patterson and Tandy, upon their answers coming in ; and after one or more
interlocutory decrees, the Court pronounced a final
decree of foreclosure, as to the above defendants;
and in case the balance found to be due by the report of the commissioner, should not be paid by
a certain day, a sale of the' mortgaged property, in
which the equity of redemption was foreclosed,
was decreed..
It was admitted, by the pirties, that the defendants bad made lasting and valuable improvements
on the mortgaged property claimed by them; and
that the female plaintiff, shortly after the date. of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

493

the mortgage, left the United States, and that nei-

1824.

ther she, nor her husband, has been since within
the United States.

Hughes

V.

Amongst the exhibits filed in the cause,, are Edwards.
two letters front James Hughes, the mortgagor, to
the female plaintiff, the one bearing date the 24th
of February, 1803, and the other the 17th of December, 1808 ; in the former of which, he recognises distinctly the existence of the mortgage, and
in both, promises to make remittances as soon as
it should be in his power.
The counsel for the appellants insist upon the
following objections:
1. That the mortgage deed is a void instrument,
the defeasance being to pay the money on the day
it became due by the bond, viz. on the 12th of
September, 1793, which was impossible; that day
having already passed.
. 2. The plaintiffs, being aliens, by their own
showing, cannot hold lands in Kentucky, and,
therefore, cannot maintain a bill to foreclose this
mortgage.
S. The plaintiffs are barred of their right toforeclose, by length of time.
4. 'That the mortgaged property oughtnot to
have been made liable to the payment of this debt,
)beyond its unimproved value.
1. The first objection is well founded in point Efectofthe
Imo,,beconof fact; but as to its legal consequences, it was in dinona°--n.

a great measure answered by the concession whichge ded.hothe learned counsel, who urged it, was constrained to make. • He admitted the law to be, as it unthat if a deed for land is to be
questionably is,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

494

1824

made void, by the happening of a subsequent conthe performance of which is impossible at
Hughes
V. the time the deed is made, the condition only is
Edwards. void, and the estate of. the grantee becomes abso'dition,

lute.

But the use which he endeavours to make

of the objection, was to turn the respondents out
of the Court of equity, and to leave them to their
legal remedy, by ejectment, to recover the possession of the granted premises, in whic it was
supposed they inight be successfully encountered
by the statute of limitations. But in what respect
the situation of a grantee in a deed without a dofeasance, but which was intended by the parties to
operate only as a security, differs from that of an
ordinary mortgagee, in respect to jurisdiction, and
the act of limitations, is not perceived by the Court.
The latter may pursue his legal remedy by ejectment, and he may, at the same time, file his bill,
for the purpose of foreclosing the mortgagor of his
equity of redemption. The objects of the two
suits are totally distinct; and it is no objection to
the remedy sought in equity, that the plaintiff has
another remedy which he may- pursue at law. In
the one,. he seeks to obtain possession of the mortgaged premises; and in the other, to compel the
mortgagor to pay the debt, for the security of which
the mortgaged property was pledged. Whether
the defendant could avail himself of the act of limitations in the former case, whilst the equitable
remedy of the plaintiff is subsisting, is a question
which need not be decided in the present case, as
the parties are now before a Court of- equity.
The effect which length of time may have upon

OF THE UNITED STATES.

495

the plaintiff's rights in that Court, will be considered under another head;.
The principles here laid down, •are not less ap-

V.
Edwads.

plicable to the case of an absolute deed, which
isr
secur~~

Anabsolute

1824.

intended by the parties to operate as a security dAdcosbdot- a martare to that of a common ed
for a debt, than they
gage9 in equi•
mortgage. A Court of equity looks at the real tyherei:s
itended mereobject and intention of the conveyances; and when iy ecu.,ity.

the grantor applies to redeem, upon an allegation
that the deed was intended as a sedurity for a debt,
that Court treats it precisely as it would an ordinary tnortgage, provided the truth of the allegation is made out by the evidence. So, too, the
grantee in such a deed, may-treat'it as a mortgage,
and, acknowledging it to be such, may apply-to a
Court of Equity to foreclose the equity of redemption, which will be decr.eed, in like manner as if an
unexceptionable defeasance were attached to the
deed. That Court directs its attention to the real
object of the deed, and the intention of the parties,
and will compel'a fulfilmenb of both. Now what
was the object of the present deed ? It is admitted by all the .parties to this cause, that it was to
securer a debt due by James Hughes, the grantor,
to Martha Hughes, the grantee; and it is apparent, from the instrument itself, exclusive of thecondition, that the debt to be secured was that of
which the bond recited in the deed was the evidence, which was payable on the 12th day of September, 1793, with interest from the date of the
bond. This, then, being the contract of the parties, it ought to be carrie& into executionj unlese

496

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

there should be objections to such a decree, other

V
Hughes
V.

than the one which'has been just disposed of.

2. .The.next objection relied upon, is the alien-

Edwards, age of the respondents.

This objection would
Alienage of
t
i
the ,ort-gee, not, we think, avail the appellants, even if the

object of this suit was the recovery of the land
itself, since the remedies, as well as the rights, of
these aliens, are completely protected by the treaty
of 1794, which declares "that British subjects,
who now hold lands in the territories of the. United States, &c. shall continue to hold them, according to the nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein; and may grant, sell,
or devise the same to whom they please, in like manner as if they were natives; and that neither they,
nor their heirs or assigns, 8hall,.so far as may respect the said lands, and the legal remedies incident
thereto, be regarded as aliens." In the cases of
Harden v. Fisher, (1 Wheat. Rep. 300.) and
Orr v. Hodgson, (4 Wheat. Rep. 463.) it was
desided that, under this trQaty, it was not necessary for the alien to show that he was in the-actual possession or seisin of the land, at the time
of the treaty; because the treaty applies to the
title, whatever that may be, and gives it the same

legal validity as if the parties were citizens. Now,
it is unquestionable, that at the time this treaty
was made, the female plaintiff was entitled to assert a legal claim to the possession of this land,
or to foreclose the equity of redemption, unless
the debt with which it was charged was paid, in
which case, equity would have considered her as
a mere trustee for the mortgagor.

"F THE UNITED STATES.

07

But the objection is deprived of all its weight, 1824.
and would be so, independent of the treaty, in a Hughes
case where the mortgagee, instead of seeking to
v.
obtain possession of the land, prays, to have his Edwards
debt paid, and the property pledged for its security sold, for the purpose .of raising the money.
Under this aspect, the demand is, in reality, a
personal one, the debt being considered as the
principal, and the- land merely as an incident;
and, consequently, the alienage of the mortgagee,
if he be a friend, can, upon no principle of law
or equity, be urged against him.
of time,
the Lapse
3. It is objected, in the third place, that
•
its effects
upo.
respondents are barred of their right to foreclose, tergh s of
by length of time. It is not alleged or pretended, mo.p,,
that there is any statute of limitations in the State
Ca° n
of Kentucky, which bars the right of foreclosure u

or redenption, and the counsel for the appellants
placed this point entirely upon those general principles which have been adopted by Coirrts of
equity, in relafion to this subject. In the case
of a mortgagor coming to redeem, that Court has,
by analogy to the statute of limitations, which
takes away the right of entry of. the plaintiff,
after twenty years adverse possession, fixed upon
that as the period, after forfeiture, and possession
taken by the mortgagee, no interest having been
.paid in the mean time,. and. no circumstances to
account for the neglect appearing, beyond which
a right of redemnption shall. not be favoured. In
respect to the mortgagee, who. is seeking to foreclose the equity of redemption, the general rule
is, that where the mortgagoi'has been permitted
VOL. IX.

63

,

499

1824.
%Hughes
V.
gaward.

CASES ]N TH1E SL.{It*:REE GUOt

to retain .possession, the mortgage will, after a
length
of time, be presumed to have been dis.
charged, by payment of the money, or a release,
unless circumstances can be shown sufficiently
strong to repel the presumption, as, payment of
interest, a -promise to pay, an acknowledgment
by the mortgage-r that the mortgage is still existing, and the like. Now, this case seems to be
strictly within the' terms of this rule. The two
letters from the mortgagor to the female plaintiff,
in 1803 and 1808, admit that the mortgage was
then subsisting, that the debt was 'unpaid, and
they contain promises to pay it when it should be
in the power of the writer. In addition to these
circumstances, credits were endorsed on the bond,
for payments acknowledged to have been made,
which, though blank, the Court below ascertained
to have been made on the 15th of January; 1798,
the 15th of May, 1803, and the 2d of August,
1808. The mortgqgor, then, cannot rely upon
length of time to warrant a presumption that this
debt has been paid or released,-the circumstances
above detailed having occurred from 8 to 15
years only prior to the institution of this suit.
But it is insisted that, although these acknowledgments may be sufficient-to deprive the mortgagor of a right to set up the presumption of phyment or release, they cannot affect the other defendants, who purchased from him parts of the
mortgaged premises, for a valuable consideration.
The conclusive answer- to this argument is, that
they were purchasers, 'with notice of this incumbrance. It must be admitted, that it was but con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

structive notice; but for every purpose essential
to the protection of the mortgagee against the

499
1824.
uhe
Hughes

effect of those alienations, it is equivalent to a
;F
direct notice,' and such is unquestionably the de- Edwrds.,
sign of the registration laws of Kentqcky. A
purchaser, with notice, can be in no better situation than the person from whom he derives his
title, and is bound by the same equity which would
affect his rights. - The mortgagor, after forfeiture,
has no title at law, and none in equity, but to redeem upon the terms of 'paying the de t and
interest. His conveyance to a purchas r with
notice, passes nothing but an equity of redemption, and the latter can, no more than the mortgagor, assert that equity against the mortgagee,
without paying the debt, or showing that it has
been paid or released, or that there are circumstances in the case sufficient to warrant the presumption of those facts, or one of them. The
-Court is, therefore, of opinion that this objection
cannot be sustained by either of the appellants.
4. The last objection is,
jma that the mortgaged Impronmenw
"
po n

property ought not to have been made liable to the ,ot,
the payment of this debt, beyond its un.improved poe-T*
value. "The. object of this suit is, to recover a
debt, and to have the property pledged-for, its
security sold, for the purpose of paying it. The
debt, as was befbre observed, is'the principal,
and the land is only as a collateral security for the
paymeni of it. The mortgagee seeks not -to
obtain the possession'of the land, and to deprive
the mortgagor or the purchaser of the improvements they have made upon it; and even if he did,

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
" Hughes

v.

Edwards,

the question would not'be materially changed. If
by means of these improvemevts the value of the
land has been increased, the mortgagor, or purchasers, are permitted to enjoy all the benefit of

such increase, by paying the debt charged upon
the land. . If he will not do this, but submits
rather to a sale of the property, he has all the
benefit of its increased value, by receiving the
overplus raised by the sale, after the debt is discharged. His improvements wore made upon
property which he knew was pledged for the payment of this debt, and he made them solely with
a view to his own interest. The land was in
reality his own, subject only'to the lien; so much
his own, that he is not accountable to the mortgagee for the rents and profits received by him
during the continuance of his possession, even
although the land, when sold, should be insufficient to pay the debt. Neither, is the purchaser
awcoufitable for any part of the debt, beyond tie
amount for which the land may be sold, although
'it
should have been deteriorated by waste, dilapidation, or other mismanagement. The claim,
therefore, of a purchaser with notice, to have the
value of the improvements which may have been
made from the f'uits of the property itself deducted from the price at which the property may
,be sold,, seems to the Couirt too unreasonable to
admit of a serious argument in its support. No
Apportion- case was cited, nor has this Court met with one,
anent of the. .nrn' debt among whc affords it-the slightest codntenance. We
the different
purchasers of Must, therefore, overrule this objection.
Before concluding this opinion, it may be pro.
thenopefly.
mortgaged

OF THE UNITED STATES.

501

per to notice-a point which was made by the coun-

1824.

sel for the appellants, although it•was not much

Hughes

V.
insisted upon; it was, that the balance due upon
this mortgage ought to have been apportioned Edrzrds.
upon all the purchasers from Hughes. The bill
was properly dismissed as to .all the defendants,
except the heirs and representatives, of Hughes,
Tandy, and Patterson, upon their answers, denying the equity of the-bill; and from these decrees
no appeal was taken. As to Tandy and Patterson, who acknowledge themselves to be purchasers with notice, they stand precisely in the situation of the mortgagor, and the mortgagees have
nothing to do with their relative rights to contribution amongst themselves. They are entitled to
be paid the .debt due to them, and to call for a
foreclosure and sale of all the mortgaged property,
whether it be in the possession of the mortgagor,
or of others to whom he has sold it. If either of
these defendants should pay more than his proportion of the debt; according to the relative
value, of the property they possess, that is a matter to be settled amongst -themselves. But it
would be most unreasonable to force the mortgagees into the delay and expense incident to the
adjustment of those differences between persons
with whom they have no concern. The conveyances by the mortgagor to them are yoid, as to
the mortgagees, against whom they have no right,
exc9pt that of redeeming, upon payment of the
mortgage debt and interest.
Decree affirmed with costs.

