OF THE UNITED STATES.

fendant cannot be said to have admitted those
facts by not denying them in
• his answer.
The Court erred, therefore, in decreeing an assignment of all the warrants, entries, and surveys
under the warrants, to the complainants.
Considering, as. we must, in the present state of
the cause, that A. Moon died intestate as to these
lands, they of course descend to those persons who
are entitled to the same according to the laws of
Ohio; and this is a subject fit to be decided by the
Court below, to which the cause must be remanded for further proceedings.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.

[Loc.L I.w.]
MEREDITH

and bthers, Appellants,
V.

PICIET

and others, Respondenft

Under the following entry, " H. R. enters SOO acres in Kentucky,
by virtue of a warrant for-military services performed by him in
the last war, in the fork ef the first fork of LVck ng, running up
each fork for quantity ;" it appeared in evidence, that at the first
fork of Lidking, the one fork was known and generally distinguished by the name of the South fork, and the other by the name
of the main Licking, or the Blue Lick fork, and that some miles
above this place the South fork again forked: hed, that the entry
could not be satisfied with lands lying in the first fork.

573
1824.
Meredit

v.
Picket.

574
1824.

CA.ES

In such a case, the entry could not be explained, and the survey supby oral testimony.

'ported,

Meredith
V.
Picket.

N THE SUPREMlE COURT

The notoriety and names of places

may be shown by such testimony, but the words of an entry are to
be construed by the Court as any other written instrument.

Feb. 5.2o.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the
appellants, and by Mr. Talbot, for the respondents.

Peb. 21st.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALLdelivered the opinion of the Court.
This case depends entirely on the question,
whether the entry under which the appellees claim
has been gurveyed on the land for which it calls.
The entry is in these words: " Holt Richeson
enters 2000 acres in Kentucky, by virtue of a warrant for military services performed by him in the
last war, in the fork of thefirstfork of Licking,
running up each fork for qLantity."
It is shown in testimony, that at the first fork of
Licking, the one fork was known and generally
distinguished by the name of the South fork, and
the other by the name of the main Licking, or the
Blue Lick fork. Some miles above this place the
South fork again forks. The land of the 'appellees
has been surveyed in the first fork.
It is contended by the appellants, that the entry
calls for land in the second fork, and that the survey. is made on land which will not satisfy its
words.

The Court concurs in this opinion. The first
fork of the first fork cannot be the first fork itself..
Whatever difficulties may attend the attempt to

place the lands properly the Court feels none in

OF THE *UNITED STATES.

575

saying, that the entry cannot be satisfied with lands 1824.
lying in the first fork.
Mereffth
V.
argument,
in
were,made
Some other objections
Picket
comis
this
as
notice,
to
which it is unnecessary
pletely decisive of the case.
It may not, however, be improper to say, that
the attempt of the appellees to explain their entry, and to support their survey, by deppsitions,
cannot avail them. It is the propdr province of
testimony to show the notoriety and names of.
places,. but not to_ explain a written instrument.
That is.the proper province of the C6urt. The
'Judges must construe the words of an entry, or of
any'.other title paper, according to their own opinion of the words as they are found in the instrument itself, and not according to the opinion 6f
witnesses, who may or may not be selected for the
purpose.
The decree of the Circuit Court, perpetuating
the injunction awarded to the appellees. to restrain
the appellants from proceeding on their judgment
in ejectment, is erroneous, and ought to b6 reversed, and the bill of the plaintiffs in the Circuit
Courtdismissed.

