616

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
The Monte

Allegre.

[PRIZE.

JUDICIAL SALE.]

The MONTE. ALLEGRE, TENANT, Claimant.
In judicial sales, there is no warranty, express or implied.
Upon a sale by the Marshal, under an order of Cburt, no warranty
is implied.
Neither the Marshal, nor his agent, the auctioneer, has any authority
to warrant the article sold.
Quacre, How far the Marshal is responsible to the vendee, ip his private capacity, if he undertake to warrant, or to do what would
imply a warranty in a private sale ?
Upon an Admiralty proceeding, in rem, where the proceeds bf the
sale are brought into Court, they are not liable to make good a loss
sustained by the purchaser, in consequence of a defect being discovered in the article sold.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Marvhnnd.
The appellant, Thomas Tenant, filed his petition on the 14th of November, 1821, in the Circuit Court for the Maryland District, setting forth
that at a public sale of part of the cargo of the
ship Monte Allegre, under an interlocutory order
of the District Court, in the case 6f Joaquim Jose
Vasques, Consul-General of Portugal, against the
ship Monte .Allegre, and her cargo, he became
the purchaser of six hundred and fifty-three seroons of Brazil tobacco, part of said cargo, for
which he paid to the Marshal of the Districti under whose superintendence the sale was conducted,
15,495 dollars and 46 cents. That the tobacco
was sold by samples, which were sound and merchantable, and that,' believing the bulk of the to-

OF THE UNITE3 STATES.

bacco correspondedin this respect, with the sampies, he became the purdnasee.
-

terwardsi he exported the. whole of the tobacco
so purchased to Gibraltar;.aad, after its arrival
there,, it was -found, upon examination, to be
whollyunsound and unmerchantable, the greater
part being entirely rotten, and the remainder un.saleable but at very'reduced prices, and was, in
fact, sold for 4,818 dollars and 52 cents.
The appellant, in his petition, further alleges,
that the tobacco received no ddmage in its transportation to Gibraltar, but was, at the time it was
sqld by the Marshal, wholly unsound, rotten, and
unmerchantable: that the cause in which the order
was passed, by virtue of which the tobacco was
sold, was still pending in this Court; and that the
proceeds of said sale remained in the Circuit
Court, under its authority and control; and, thereupon, prayed for such relief, as, upon proof of
the allegations, he might be considered by the
Court entitled to.
To this petition an answer was filed on the 2d
of May, 1822, in the name of Joaquim Jose Vasques, Consul-General of Portugal, on behalf of
the owners of the proceeds of the ship Monte Allegre and her cargo, resisting the claim of the
appellant:
1. Because the Court had no jurisdiction or
power whatever to sustain the petition, inasmuch
as it was calling on the Court to award damages
on a clainT in the nature of an action for a deceit,
or on a warranty, as an incident to a cause, in its
nature -wholly of admiralty and maritime cogniVOL. IX.

7R

1824.

shortly af- The.,o-te
That,
•
The MIonte
Allegre.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

zance, the claim being entirely of cm'nion law
Vic M1onte SjurisdictiQn, and could not be made an incident
Allegre. to that which appertains exclusively to the Admiralty. And, se.condly, the claim was resisted upon
th& merits. Proofs were taken on both sides, in
tbe Court below, and a decree, pro forma, was
entered by consent, dismissing the petition with
costs; on which the cause was brought by appeal
to this Court.
.Adca 3d.

Mr. Meredith, for the appellant, in answer to
the objection as to defect of jurisdiction, stated,
1. That this claim was an incident to the principal case.'of the Monte Allegre, which bad been
formerly determined in this Court by a deree of
restitution to the original Portuguese owners., The
general rule is, that where a Court has jurisdiction
in the principal question, it has jurisdiction, incidentally, over all interlocutory matters that are
eonnected, with, or arise out of, the original cause.
Iiwould oeem to follow, therefore, that a sale,
made in virtue of an interlocutory decree, by a
Court exercising a rightful and 'exclusive jurisdiction over the cause in which such decree is promounced, must necessarily be considered as an in:
aident. It.could not be *denied,tliat the -interlocutory decree itself was strictly incidental ; and if
-o, the sale must necessarily have the same character, since it and the decree are inseparably connected. The decree and the sile boto depend on
the jurisdiction in the principal cause, and so does
t I Wheat. Rep.

520.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

619

the title acquired by:the purchaser. The proceeds of the sale are in Court, and the Court has

The Monte

an undoubted power to distribute them according

Allcgre.

to equitable circumstances, and, so long as they
remain within its control, to decide on all claime
respecting them." The answer in this case, however, places the jurisdiction on distinct ground.
It is said, that the claim is in the nature of an
action for a deceit, or on a warranty, which are
actions known only to the common law, and cannot, therefore, be an incident to that which appertains exclusively to the admiralty. Such, however, is not the rule. Whether the original cause
of action be either of admiralty or common law
jurisdiction, all incidental matters follow the jurisdiction of the original cause, whatever tie complexion of those matters, separately considered,
may be.'

2. In judicial sales, the Court has entire control
over the contract. It considers the contract as
made with itself,and will interfere, underequitable
circumstances, to relieve the purchaser, where it
would not interfere in a private contract. This is
the established doctrine in equity.0 The same
principle applies to sales under decrees in the
Court of Admiralty, which executes a "wido
equity."
a Smart v. Wolfl S T. R. 323.
1 3 BL Corn. 107. 2 Bro. Civ. and Adrn. Law, 107. 2 Saund.

259. Cro. Rliz. 685. Doug. 594. Bee's Adm. Rep. 370.
c Sugd. Vend. 34. 115., 1st Am. ed. Saville v. Saville, I P.
WrYm. 746. Morebead v. Frederick, Sugd. Vend. Appx. 524
Lawrence v. Comell, 4 Johnc. C/ . Rep. 542.

1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Alegre.

3. But, even admitting that the sale .in this case
is
to
governed by the stricter rules of the common be
law, it may be brought within those
rules.
The proof shows, conclusively, that this was a sale
by sample, which is equivalent to a warranty ;" and
such warranty extends as well to the soundness and
merchantable condition of the commodity, as to its
particular species., The proof, and the admission
on the record, are conclusive, to show that at the
time of sale the tobacco was unsound and unmerchantable ; and if the sale by sample amounts to a
warrapty, the purchaser was not bound to examine
the tobacco.
Such an examination, if made,
would have been no waiver of the warranty.
4. The Marshal, being the agent of the Court,
.was authorized to sell by sample, that being, according to the proof, the usual and customary mode
of sale ; and this even if he be considered as a
special agent.d The Marshal, however, being the
agent of the Court, in all sales under its dectees,
is to be considered strictly as a general agent,6
and-is, therefore, authorized to do all acts within
the scope -of his employment.
a Hibbert v. Slhee, I Camp. 113.
Klinitz v. Surry, 5 Esp.
Rep. 267. Gardiner v. Gray, 4 Camp. 144, Sands v. Taylor,
5 Johns. Rep. 404. Sweet v. Colgate, 20 Jans. Rep. 196. Bradford v. Manly, 13 Mas.T. Rep. 139.
b is Mass. Rep. 139.
c 1 Peters C. C. Rep. 317.
d s T.R. 757.' 4T.R. 17'7. 5 Esp. Rep. 75. 2C"amp. 55.
12 Mod 514. Wiles, 407". 1 Canp. 2.9.) and cases collected
in Paley on Agency.
-"
e 15 East'8 Rep. 408.,

OF THE UNITED STATXS.

'i. The proceeds now remaining in the regis- 1824.
try though not
ry,the specific proceeds of the tobac- TheM~ute
co, are, notwithstanding, liable to this claim. The .AIegre.
proceeds of the tobacco were disbursed in payment of duties and expenses, which were a joint
charge of ship and cargo.. The fund now in Court
is a common fund, on which the owners of the tobacco have a claim for their distributive charge.
.AIr. D. Hoffman, for the respondenis, contended, that the Marshal possessed no power to warrant the quality of- the article sold, he being a
special agent, with limited powers; and that if he
had exceeded the scope of his authority, he could
not thereby implicate the proceeds of the property,
beihg the agent of the Court, and not of the owners. That the limited authority of the Marshal, in
the case of sales by order of the Court, is universally known and acknowledged; that all persons,
therefore, are presumed to purchase on their own
means of judging; and public officers are never*
presumed to possess the same extent of knowledge
in regard to the quality of property sold by them,
as the owners thereof would be presumed to possess.
Admitting, then, argumenti gratia, that there
has, in fact, been gossfraud,or a .warrantyexpress or implied, by the Marshal, or by his agent,
the auctioneer, or by both, such fraud, or warranty,.
would neither implicate the property, nor involve
the owners in any responsibility. It is not competent for a Court, nor for the Marshal, as agent
of that Court, nor for the auctioneer, as agent of

622

1824.
TheMonte
Allegro.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

theilarshal, in any case, to charge the property
or owners by any fraud or warranty.
Andfirst, as to the power of the Court in this
respect: It must be conceded, that the owners
have had no a.gency in this sale; as to them, it
was wholly in invitum. The sale wa6 by the
Court, not by the ownQrs; the Couirt is not even
the agent of the owners pro hac ziec; and as the
purposes of justice demand a sale, and nothing
more, and as Courts are never presumed to know
the quality of property sold under their order, so,
in the present case, the order contains an authority to sell, which, we shall presently show, does not
authorize a warranty. If the appellant's claim be
well founded, in respect to the acts either of the
Court or its agent, it must, as there has been no
express warranty, repose either on the doctrine
that a sound price will insure a sound article, or
this, that a fraudulent representation imposes a
legal obligation on the Court, to the same extent
to which similar representations would bind an individual. The acts of a Court, as such, whatever
the motives of the individuals who compose it, are,
in the eye of the law, wholly uncontaminated by
fraud or. deceit. To that to which the law has
assigned the part of declaring justice, it cannot
impute a vice contradictory of such a character,
nor suppose that the oracles of justice can dicThe distinction between juditate injustice.
,eial sales and those of individuals, rests mainly, (.) on the actual or presumed knqwledge of
owners, and the actual or implied ignorance of
Courts, (whose province it sometimes 'io to or-

W*

OF THE UNITED STATES.

der sales,) of the nature and quality of the

1824.

thing sold; (2j) on the absolute impracticability Thei'l

of a Court's inquiring into circumstances of qua- AIegre
lity and title in these cases, and the ionsequent
absence ofany reliance, by purchasers, in these
respects; and, (3.) on the total want of .all motive in Courts and their officers, to warrant, defraud, or- misrepresent. On these grounds is it
that the maxim, caveat emptor, emphatically applies to such sales. It is on a similar principle
that all judicial sales are out df the operation of
the statuteof frauds; and this is~by no means because the judicial sale is at auction, for auction
sales- are within the statute, unless they are' also
in pursuaiqce of judicial authority; but it is because'there is a peculiar respect due to judicial
sales. The danger which the statute intended to
guard against, cannot be supposed of such sales.a
On the direct question under consideration,
there are but few cases to be found in the books.
In South Carolina it has been expressly decided,
that, at a Sheriff's sale, caveat emptor is the best
possible rule tlhat can be laid down. The Court
emphatically states, that all who attend such sales
ought to take care and examine into the title, &c.;
that no warranty, express or implied, can. be
raised on the part of the owner, as to whom the
proceeding is compulsory,. nor of the Sheriff,
who is the mere agent of the Court, nor of the
a Attorney-General v. Day; .1 Ves. sen. 221.
Bradbea-, 12

Fes. 472.

Bragden v.

Mason v, Armitage, 13 Ves. 25.

Munf- 102. ,Sukd. Vend. 78.

3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

1824.
ki

Court itself- and, therefore, in that case, the

%claim

The Monte

Allegre.

)f the defendant's wife to dower, is no rea-

son why the purchaser should not pay the money
bid at such sale." In New-York, however, we
find s6mething of a contrary doctrine advanced
by Mr. Chancellor Kent, who repudiated Lord
Hardwicke's doctrine in the case of the AttorneyGeneral v. Day, and held that Shbriff's sales are
within the statute of frauds.
The cases on this point, which have been cited
by the appellant's counsel, may be distinguished.
The first is Saville v. SavilleO where it was
merely decided, that while such a purchase before
the Master remained in fieri, the Court would
not actively interfere to* compel performance, the
purchase having been made under a prevalent delusion as to the value of estates, and the purchaser.
was willing, in order to be relieved, to forfeit his
deposit, which was one tenth of the whole purchase money. It is further to be remarked of this
case, that a quire is added by the learned commentator, " whether this be now the law of the
Court."
Several cases also were cited from Sugden,
all which may be accounted for by their peculiar
circumstances. The sale was i.fieri in every
case; the Master, who conducted the sale, had
all the knowledge possessed by the owndrs, was
a The Creditors of Thayer v. Sheriff of Charleston, 2 Bay,
170.
b Simonds v. Catlin, 2 Caines, 63.
o 2 P. Wme. 745.

OF" THE UNITED STATES.

6.25

possessed of every muniment of title, and ought 1824.
t
tohave known.of every incumbrance; and *must Thr
Mionte
of the sales were voluntary; or, if not, the Court Allegre.
either required a forfeiture of the deposit, or the
clearest proof of gross mistake, which it was in
the master's power to have .guarded against.a
Having nearly exhausted the common law
sources of information, on this question, I shall
be pardoned for seeking further light in the Roman code, that pure and copious fountain of written reason. It is well known how strict the tEdilitian law was in regard to the obligations of vendors. Not only a sound price warranted a sound
commodity, but the seller was bound to declare
all the faults known to him, nay, was responsible
even for such as were altogether unknown to him.
Yet all the commentators on this edict admit, that
neither the action quanti minoris, redhibitovia,
nor that ex empto, would lie in the case of fiscal
and judicialsales. It appears that where an extravagant price was given for a commodity, the
Romaniaw allowed a diminution of the price, to
*beenforced .by the action quanti minoris, though
the purchaser suggested neither fraud nor warranty. But this applied only to private sales, not
those under public authority. So, if the commodity were unsound, or unfit for its ordinary
purpose, that law compelled the vendor, by the
actio redhibitoria, to take back the property, or
make allowance for its defects; but the policy of
a Sugd. Vend. 34.49. 115- 185.
Cornell, 4.Jos. Ch. Cas. 542.
VOL. IX.

79

4pp. 524. Lawrence v.

626

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. the law did not suffer judicial or fiscal sales to be
impugned by the redhibitory action. Again, if
The Monte
Allegre. the title proved defectiie, in lands or goods, the
purchaser resorted to the action ex cmpto; but
this, too, applied only to private sales.
This doctrine is emphatically stated in the Roman code. llud, sciendtnt cst, edictum 4oc ton
pertine'e ad venditiones fiscales. To the same
effect is Domat, who cites the /Edilitian edict.
"Redhibition and diminution~ of price, on account
of the vices of the thing sold, do not take place
in public sales which are made by a depree of a
Court bf justice. For in these sales it is not the
proprietor who sells, but it is the nmthority of justice, which adjudges the, thing only such as it is. '
Pothier, commenting on the clause, "tamen illud
sciendum est," says, that this exclusion of responsibility on the .part of the owner of property, is
owing to the trust and confidence reposel in Courts
of justice: their sales, therefore, must stand; they
shall not be annulled by the action ex cmpto,. nor
the price be reduced by the action quanti minoris
or 'redhibitoria." " Propter auctoritatem hastm
fiscalis (continues Pothier) cujus fides facile convelli non debet."' The same author, in his'treatise of the 'contract of sale, after commenting on
the various remedies under this celebiated edict,
says, "but the consequential actions on account
a Dig. 1. 1. t- 1. De iEdilio. Edicto.
b Domat's Civ. Law, b. 1. t. 2. S. 11.
c Potlh. Pand.Just. 1. 21. t. 1. s.-4. art. 1. No. 5.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

627

of redhibitory defects, are not allowed on sales 1824.
made under judicial authority2a
The Nonto
Leaving the Roman -code, analogous principles Allego.
are not wanting in the jurispruldence of other
countries. In Holland and the Netherlands, certain purchasers have -the privilege of rescinding
their contracts within twenty-four hours, if the
inequality of the transaction exceeds one half the
price paid. But it is said, that this right does not
appertain to any sales made under a decree, or in
the presence of a Judge, and that it certainly does
not to Sales on involuntary decrees.' There is
.a similar locus penitentiw accorded tn the inhabitants of these counkries, who, as the same author in substance remarks, "through much internal heat are commonly much inclined to liquor,
and, therefore, in the midst of innocent-drunkenness, are induced -to mislead ind defraud the unwary in their sales and parchases. The persons
thus used may recede within twenty-four hours,
which privilege is, in every respect, to be understood of private trade, as there can be no suspigion
of deception,, where the sale is public by an authorized functionary." In the samejurisprudence
we find what is called an appropriati'onor re-demption right, which gives to the vendor, in certain cases, within a limited time, the privilege of
repossessing himself of the property sold, at the

-

a Trait du Confrat de Vente, s. 232.
6 Vcn LeeumWni'Com. b. 4. c. 20. s. 4.

c1b. s.: 6, 7.

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

628

1824.

same price. But this permission applies in no
case t judicial or public sales.a
tegxme
But it is said that the Marshal was competent
to warrant tile quality of the property sold, or, at
least, that he has (lone so, and that, therefore, it-is
the Court's.duty to adopt his aets,,and to save the
purchaser from loss; This doctrine, we presume,
cai hardly be sound. The Marshal is only a mii sterial agent of the Court- his authority cannot
be more extensive than that whence it flows :derivitivapotestas non potest esse major primitiva. Nay, further, lie was pro hac vice.a special
agent with defined powers; his authority was only
to sell, and sale does not ex vi termini imply even a
warrdnty of the title, much less of the quality of the
commodity sold.- for if the title should be defended
by the Court, it would be only on the ground fint,
as the proceeding was in rem, all the world was a
party, and not on the principle of warranty,either
express or implied. The Marshal, had he been
guilty of fraud, dr exceeded his powers by
warranting the quality of the.tobacco, could only have
subjected himself to personal responsibility, and
not the property; nor could any such excess in the
execution of his powers impose the least obligation on the Court, either to bind the property, or
compel, the owners to ratify his act. The Marshal's authority was to sell, and this, it has often
been deiided, does not convey a power to icarrant.' Again, the acts of an agent beyond the
a Van Leeuw. Com. b. 4. c. 19. s. 1. 12.
b Nixon v. Hyscrott, 5 John8. Rep. 58.
Johns. Rep. 390.

Gibson v. Colt, 7

OF THE UNITED STATES.

scope of his authority, are void as to every one but
himself."-

629
1824.
The Monte

The Marshal is necessarily a special agent only, Allegre.
and his, like all other defined authorities, must be
strictly pursued. He need not be directed-not to
warrant: this is implied - ex 2zatura offco.' He
cannot be presumed to warrant, because between
him and the owners there can be no privity.: An
owner has the requisitei knowledge of the nature'
and. qualifies of his merchandise;, he, and his
agent, the auctioneer, who have the fullest means
of judging, may consequently sometimes impliedly
warrant. But an officer of Court cannot be presumed to warrant any thing, since he sells the products- of.every region of the globe, often without
invoices, letters, description, or 'muniments of
title, and often without seeing, or the possibility of
seeing, the contents of numerous packages, whose
opening might lead to expense or prejudice.
And even with respect-to agents and servants, the
general doctrine is, that they are nQt competent to
implicate tlheir constituents, either by their warranty or their-fraud; though there are many cases
where the principal has been bound, especially in
the sale'of horses, which rests on special grounds,
It is, however, laid 'down by Rolle, that "a warranty on a sale-must be nmade by him who sells;
and, therefore, if- a servant, on a sale of goods of
a Paley op Agency, 165: 302,303. s Johns. Cas.70.IT
R.205.' ST.R.-757. 4Taunt.242. lDowlsRep. 44. 15
East.45.
b Paley on Agency, 165.17, 171.

CAS'ES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Thee Monte

Allegre.

his master, warrant them, it will -be a void warranty, for it is the sale of the inaster."'' So here,
if the Marshal have warranted the property, it is
a void warranty as to the source whence he derived
his power to sell.
What has been said of the Marshal, appli
with like force to the auctioneer. It may, besid .,
be remarked, that auctioneers are ever considered
as special agents, and that generally they have an
authority to sell only.b The auctioneer's powers
were defined in this case by the character 'of the
source whence he drew them, and this source was
known to every bidder. But where auctioneers are
clothed with a general authority, usage may, and
has limited it in this class of cases, though private
inqtructions, without u age, might not have avail-

ed. o
As to the question of express warranty, or fraud,
it may be laid down as a settled principle, that
purchasers are bound to apply their attention to
those particulars, which may be supposed within
the reach of their observation and judgment ; and
that if they are wanting in that attention where it
would have protected them, they must endure the
loss, unless -in the case of an express warranty, or
of gross fraud.
This is a case in which the purchaser's vigilance
should have been particularly awakened. He well
a Roll. Abr. 95. pl. SO.

2 Roll's Rey. 274).

b 7 res. 276.
.c Paley onAgen. 163. note 9.

279.

Dickinson v. Lilwall. 4 Campe.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

knew, thatthe tobacco was sold under an interlo- 1824.
cutory decree, which molst have been either under "he'nt
a perishable monition,- the consent of proctors, Allegre.
or the arbitrary mandate of the CourL The
decree itself, however, seemed to imply the perishable state of the property ;. and besides, interlocutory decrees for the sale of property are seldom allowed, unless from some such necessity.
This alone was sufficient to put the party on the
inquiry. A Court, also, and its officers, (unlike
owners,) cannot be presumed acquainted with the
quality and condition of the property offered for
sale; and the nature of the property itself (as we
shall presently see) excluded the possibility of
the Marshal or his agent's possessing any knowledge not equally within the reach of the purchaser's observation. These circumstances bring the
case-entirely within the position just laid down,.
and more extensively expressed and well illustrated, in Fonblanque." It is a rule of law, no less
than of moral justice, that if both parties be ignorant of the quality, a loss, if any, must be sustain
ed by the purchaser: Vigilantibus -or dormentjbusjurasubserViunt.b If, then, the vendor have
knowledge of patent defects discoverable by ordinary attention, the disclosure of them -is-a duty
but of imperfect obligation, and;, he cannot be
charged by the purchaser, unless there has been a
concealment ex industria, or alwarranty.0 Nay,
a Fo=i. Eq. 879, note 12..
6 Ho. 347. 2 Day, 128. 1 Hayw. 464.

1 Hardin,50.

c Sygd. Vend. 1,.2. 195. 200. 2 Bay 383.. 7 Johns. AT.
$92.

4Di.4.4.16.4.

CASES IN T-IE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'TheMonte

Allegre.

further, a purchaser is not presumed to have been
put off his guard, and diverted from his inquiry, by
the vendor's commendation of the goods. Even
under the _Edilitian edict,' the maxim was simplex
commendatio non obligat; for though thatlaw
aimed at producing the utmost good faith in sales,
yet it was also a rule of the civil code, that "in
buying and selling, the law of nations connives at
some cunning and overreaching ;" in pretio emptionis et venditionisnaturalitur licet contrahentibus se circumvenire; and our law has adopted
these principles, in regardboth to comme. dation
and enhancement of price. We are, then, brought
to the inquiry, first, whether the soundness of the
price paid will entitle the purchaser to a sound article, or to compensation for its defects ; "econdly,
whether there has been a sale by sdmple in this
case, and what is the true meaning of, and1 obligation flowing from, a sale by sample.
Admitting a sound price to have been paid for
this tobacco, we contend, first, that this doesnot,
in our law, insure a sound and merchantable commodity., Every common law author, Wooddeson
excepted," sustains this position. "In the civil
law," says Lord Coke, "a sound price demands d
sound article; but it is not so in the common law,
in which there must be eitheofiaud or an express
warranty.b Wooddeson's pcition is unsustained
by any authority; nor has it been subsequently upa Sugd. Ven. 3. 1 Tyl.&p.404.
146.322.

2Wood.415.

b Co. Litt. 102"b.

2 Corn. Con. 265. 2 Dal.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

633

proved by the profession. In America, Coke's 1824.
sanctioned. TheMqbt
law has been aImost universally
•
Wooddeson's doctrine has been adopted only in Auleg.
thetwo Carolinas, aidbya few elementary writers
in this country., We might go even farther, and
say, that if the vendor not only receivea a full price,
but affirms the goo~ls to be sound, neither the fulness of the price nor the falsity of the affirmation
will oblige him to a diminution of the price-' An
implied warranty as to quality, is wholly unknown
to the common law, all the cases of implied warranty being applicable to title only.e The only
exception to this, may be in the sale of provisions,
which, if unsound, are positively noxious. But
even this exception, thpugh its policy is obvioue,
is denied.d The same doctrine has also been
maintained in equity.c No implied warranty, then,
can be inferred, either from the fulness of the
price, or from any affirmation having been made.
And even in those Courts where a, sound price has
been held to'imply a warranty of the soundne a of.
the commodity, it has been held, that if the pur-haser has neglected to infbrm himself of such
matters within his observation, as might have prevented the purchase, he shall bear the loss: and,.
a2 Bay, 17.19.380. i .Tayt. i. 2 Swift's Conn. Law, 120.
b 4 Johm.Rep. s54, 18 Johns. Rep. 403. 2 Caines'T. R. 48.
c 12 Johns.'Rep. 468. 10 Mass. Rep. 197.
d5 Ves. 508. 5 Ves. 678. 10 es. 505. Sugd. Vend. 199.
e 1FonbL 109.373. i-Johns. Rep. 96. 129. 274. 4 Johns. Rep.

421.

1 Bin. Rep. 27.

H.'
6 Johns. Rep. j. 2 Caines,48. IV.

Rep. 176. Peake's N. P. Cus. 123. 2 East, 448. 2 Caines' RX
48. 35. 1 Dagi.217. 4 Dali. 334.
VoL. IX.

so

634

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824;

farther, even an exp~ress warranty would not ext
tend to things discernable by ordinary vigilance.,,
The Monte
Allegre.
The only remaining ground, then, on which the
appellant's claim can rest, is; secondly, that there
las been, in fact, a sale by sample, and that thih,
in law, -implies a warranty, that the bulk of the
commodity shall correspond with the article exhibited. We deny the fact,; and contend, that no
sale by sample ever did take place; and as to the
law relatingeto sales by sample, we entertain. opinion$ extremely different from those which have
been advanced..
We -have showh that the common law knows
.but two sources of obligation on the part of the
vendor, in regard to the .quality of the articlesold, yiz. fraud and express warranty; and that
-no warranty can be inferred from the doctrine
that a. sound price insures, a sound, commodity,
this principle forming fno part of our jLurisp'ruaence. The only reinaining.source of obligation,
therefore, is, that this is a sale by sanhple ; but .-o
establish .this, it will be necessary to maintain that

the naked presentation.f a p&ortio7t of. the bulk
of the commodity sold,, is, per,se, it. watranty
that -the bulk .shall .agreein quality.with the portion exhibited; a doctrine by no means sustainable byAny cases which have, been, o. can be cited,
ab to sales by sample. We. fully admit, 'that a
sale actually by sample, .is tantamount to a warrainty; but we differ materially from the counsel
as. to what constitutes a sample, which..1.e 'apprea 2 Caines!

.

202.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

635

hend, is technical, and something very different 1824.
from the mere exhibition, at the time zf sale, of Tho
'--vMonte
.a part of the commodity offered for sale.
Allegre.
A sample is a portion of the bulk of a commodity, exhibited by the owner or his agent, with the
intention-to induce persons to buy, expressing the
owner or agent s knowledge of the general character of the whole, and his willingness to warrant
to the purchaser that the bulk shall correspona in
all material respects with the part exhibited. It
is a symbolical expresi warranty, being conventional, and as much expressive of intention as
words. Thus we preserve tha harmony of the
law, which 'excludes all zmphec warranty as to
quality. We deny that sale by e portion exhibited, is necessarily sale by sample of quality'the quo animo is always matter of 1widence and
we conceive the followinrg to be esebtial circumstancesin the creation of that warranty of auality
which arises from the sale by sample- (1.) That
tbe vendor be the om'er, or have some privity or
connexionwifh.htm6 otherwise the .vendee cannot
presume him to he -Clothed with the authority to
warrant, or possessed of that knowledge of the
quality of the commodity requisite to do so. In.
such cases the portion exhibited is merely to eneble the purchaser -to form. a reasoable judgment
of the generic or specific e6haacter of the -ammodity; and if he bb, not satislied of this; or-of
the firnfess 6f the selection of the sample, he
should demand an -express*warranTy which would
prsmuillyotbligate-thepersong ing it; or he may
re~fiise io purchase, If he do neither, caveat

CASES IN 'THE, SUPREME COURT

1824,. emptor. (2.).There must be a want of power in
. the'purchaser to examine for himself; for, in the
.W6 Monte
Axegr.c

abseice of such power, the presumption is greatly

stengthened,. that the portion exhibited is to
(.) It should ap(3xamination.
serve in lieu. of
pear that the, purchaser was in search of quality,
that he desired to exercise some judgment, and
placed some reliance on the quality of the portion
exhibited; since, if the safibple had no operation
in determining the mind to purchase, no such infliendo ouglit to be ascribed to it. (4.) There
must .besome further manifestation of intention to
exhibit the portidn as a sample of quality, than the
mere fact of its presence: the minds of the seller
and purchaser must pave concurred on this point,
a.ndthe part must be shownat/imo w#arantizandi.
W) What is declared in coiltexion with the \exhibition of this -portion, .must be something more
than .mere opinion; for if a sample be giverA of
what the purchaser knows the seller has nevar
seen-, itmust, from the verynatur6 of things, be
matter of opinion only that the comniodity will
correspond-in bulk with the part shown.
* The'sale in thiscase was under judicial authority;, the purchaser well knew that the Cou't and
its officers possessed little or no knowledge .of
this tobacco;. they. were neither the growers,
packers; nor owhers of thd commodity*; and, gon:sequently, even supposing the Marshal competent
to warrant,; therewourd be no warranty of the
quality, unless the'purchaser had reas6n to supprse that the Marshal or.auctionleer had-nearly the
same. knowledge as the' owner. 'The case "of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Gardnerv.Gray, cited on the other side, for- 1824.
tifies this view of the subject, for there the sped- The Mort
men exhibited came direct from the owner, and Alege..
the plaintiff had a verdict, not only - because he
had not opportunity to examine for himself, but
because the commodity in bulk could not be sold
at all under the denomination of waste silk, which
the specimen certainly was. To the same effect
is the case of Laing v. Fidgeon.,b where the goods
were manufactured by the defendant, to whom
the plaintiff had sent-patterns of the commodity
he wanted, which, when sent, was found wholly
unsaleable. . Now, here the purchaserexhibited
the sample, and the manufacture&', by shipping
the article to him, adopted the sample, and- the
plaintiff fully relied on having an article fairly
corresponding with it. In all the cases relied on
by the appellant, it will be found that the plaintiff
had no opportunity of judging for himself; whereas
here the appellant, and every other jurchaser,
had full liberty to examine. The authorities are
explicit, that the specimen exhibited must have
been relied on as indicating-th quality, and so
are, all- the forms of pleading in such cases.- In
Brndford .. Davis,' a case much relied zn by-the
appellants, the Court expressly instructed the jury,
that if they believed it was the intention of the
defendant so to represent, by exhibiting the sample, then the plaintiff wQufd be entitled to a vera 4 Camp. 1.44.
b 6 Taunt. 108. 4 Camp. 1(C).
1iMas. Rep. 14o.
d b. 139.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

dict; clearly showing the Court's opinion, that
the
mere exhibition of a. specimen is not, per se, a
Th6 Montie"
AU-re.. sale by sample. To the same effect is the case of
.Chapman v. March.a But in the case under consideration, every circumstance combines to show
that there Was no intention to warrant, and these
circumstances were perfectly well known to the
ptirchaser.
The specimen exhibited, and what is declared
in regard to it, may be evincive of. opinon only,
in which case all the authorities agree that there
is no sale by sample.' Hbbert v. Sheeo has been
much relied on br the appellants' counsol. It
must'be recodleted, however, to have been conceded in that case, that the sale was'by sample,
and the only question was; how far the commodity
corresponded- with the. sample. The sugar had
been purchased by a sample, which, after long
exposure to the sun, had lost its colouring matter;
the piajntiff supposed, therefore,,' that he was
getting.sugar nearly'white, because he hai dright
to presume that the samples were fresh.
The Aitortey-General, for the appellants, in
reply, insisted upon the evidence to show that this
was, in-fact, a sale by sample. The jurisdiction of
the Court below, as a Court of Admiralty, was admitted; the objection to it having bebn Waived.
,a l9Jolma.Rep.291. 201b.196.

h2-.

inu,55. s T.R .57.

c Camp. Rep, 1s.

2d"Johns.Rep..203. 2 Comt.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

639

How ought this jurisdiction to have been exerci- 1824.
sed? The libellan.t's claim was i'nfem, and in the
alternative, for the fair. value of the property, if Aflegre.
transiuted. He now ask- vastly more. If the
specific thing had been preserved in the custody of
the Court, he would have received nothing but its
real effective value. How; then, can he claim
more, in consequence of the sale? How can-a
Court of justice permit such. injustice to be done
to an incidental suitor, who has purchased under
its decreeP-? - A sale by sample is a symbolical
warranty. A sale by sample is where a portiou
of the thing is shown, as a specimen of the entire
commodity. The .language of Mr. Chief Justice.
Parker, in Bradfordv. Manly," applies: "Among
fair dealers, there could be no question, that the
vendor intended to represent that the article sold
was lik the sample exhibited ; and it would be to
be lamented, if the law should refuse its aid to the
party who. had been deceived in a purchase so
made." The sample could not-have been exhibited merely to show.the generic character. The
principle of the legal rule is -the impression which
is naturally produced on the mind of the vendee, by the pr6duction of the sample. The Marshal and auctioneer, although acting under. the authority of the Court, must be considered as the
agents of the.owners of the goods. Ifthesejudicial
agents proceed exotly as a merchant would hdvo
done, under. the same circumstances,. the purchaser-has a right to draw the same inference.as'
a. 13 Mass. Rep. 143.

CASES IN XHE SUPREME COURT

1824: in-the caseof a private sale. The Court -has powOMoiatp erto relieve, and wil relievej upoii'the s me prinThe
Auegm ciples which govern a Court of equity, while it,
is
infiei.. The rules efthe Roman law on this sub.
ject have-never been incorporated into. our municipal code, and we are.rather taolook-to the analogpus practice of the Courts of Equity. The oircumstance of its- ieing a judicial sale, so far from
its disabling the Court, gives it the more authority
to:redress the party, in case of mistake or-misrepresentation, even in a state of facts where relief
would not be granted in a private sale. It -lig
complete control over the whole subject, 'and may,
therdfore, do the most liberal justice. Even -tidmitting-that the officers' of the Court have no authority to warrant elpressly, or by legal implication, still the Court may.;:ipterfere; and, pursuing
the.example of a Court of equity, may do justice to
those whd have suffered an incidental injury from
judicial proceedings, which are entirely in invitos.
March i6th.

. Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the, opinion oP
the Court, and after stating thb case, proceeded
as follows;
Upon the argument in this Court) the counsel
for the respondent abandoned the objection to the
jurisdiction of the Court. It becomes unnecessary,
therefore, that we shoqld notice that question.
In examining into *he- mrits of the claim abt
upby the appellant, in his petition, it ought to be
borne in mind, that •the Monte Allogre aid ,her
cargo,
illegally captured and brouglit Within
-the United States, and that judgment. oftiestituo
-were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion has been awarded in favour of the original 1824.
owners.. (7 Wheat. Rep. 520.) Qranting the Themonte
claim now set up, will be throwing- upon the Alegre.
owners an additional sacrifice of theii property,
without any misconduct of theirs, but, on the
contrary, growing out of the illegal and wrongful
acts of others. Such a result, in order to receive
the sanction of a Court of justice, ought to be
called for by some plain and well settled principles of law 6r equity. It -may be said that the
appellant is not chargeable .with any of the miscondtict imputable to those who have occasioned
the loss upon the Mfont6 Allegre and her cargo.
But'when one of two innocent persons mustsuffer,
he to whom-is imputable negligence, or want of
the employment of all the nleans within his reach
to guard against the injury, must bear the loss.
The proceedings to obtain the order of sale of
the tobacco, were Without the knovledge or consent of' the owners, and their prpperty exposed to
sale against theii will. The appellant became the
purchaser voluntarily, and with full opprtunity of
informing himself as to the state and condition of
the tobacco he purchased. The loss, therefore,
for which he now seeks indemnity, has come upon
him by his own negligence.
Keeping in view these considerations, "weproceed to an examination of 'the appellant's claim,
which, if sustained, must be on the ground of
fraud, or warranty, or -some principles peculiar
to admiralty jurisdiction, and unknown to the
common law.
YdL. X. "1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
hen
TheMonm

Allegre.

If the pppellant has sustained an injury, by. a
fraud not imputable in any manner to the appellee,
it would be obviously unjust that he, or his pro-

No proof of perty, should be made answerable for the damages.
Uhe No part of the proof in the case affords the least
port the appel- countenance to the idea, that the appellee had any
lant 's clahj.
agency, directly or indirectly, in the sale of the
tobacco; he, of course, cannot be chargeable with
fraud, and this alone would be sufficient to roj6ct
any claim on this ground. But any allegation of
fraud is not better supported against the Marshal
or auctioneer. The petition does not allege directly, and in terms, fraudulent conduct in any
one; but only states, that from the representations of the Marshal and auctioneer, the petitioner, and other purchasers, believed the tobacco
to be sound and merchantable, and that under
such belief he became a purchaser, at a fair price
for sound and merchantable tobacco. Whether
this allegation is sufficient to let in an inquiry at
all upon the question of fraud, is unnecessary to
examine, because, if sufficiently alleged, it is
wholly unsupported by proof. No witness undertakes to-say that the Marshal made any representations whatever respecting the tobacco; and the
Marshal himself testifies that he was present at
the: sale, which wasmade by the auctioneer under
his direction, and that he gave him no instructions,
other than telling him it was public property, and
was to be sold as it was, and by order of the
Court. Nothing was, therefore, done by the
Marshal, calculated to mislead or deceive purchasers. And the auctioneer testifies that he knew

sale, to

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

the property was sold by order of the Court, and
that he teceived from the Marshal no instructions
other than to sell for cash; that there was no
deception intended or practised in the sale. And

1824.
The Monte

Allegre.

that this was true, so far as respected himself, is
fully confirmed. by the fact, that the house of
which he was a partner, after the sale, and before
the shipment to Gibraltar, purchased o-e third of
the tobacco from the appellant.
There is, therefore, no colour for charging any
onewith fraudulent conduct in the sale of the tobacco. And, indeed, this did not seem, on the
argument, to be relied upon as a distinct and independent ground for relief, but only to be brought
in aid of the claim, on the ground of warranty,
which we proceed next to examine.
It was made a question on the argumept, by the
counsel for the appelle.e, whether the evidence in
the case warranted the conclusion, 'that the tobacco, at the-time'of the sale, was in as deteriorated a state .as it was found at Gibraltar? According to the view taken by the Court of the
case, this inquiry becomes wholly unnecessary.
It would be very reasonable to conclude, that if
the tobacco was in. r decaying condition at the
time of sale, it would become more injured by
lapse of time. But, were the inquiry necessary,
the agreement of the counsel, filed the 18th of
May, 1822, would seem to put that question at
rest, for it is there expressly admitted, that the
tobacco sustained no damage on the voyage.
-1wsupport of the claim, on the ground of war- Waffany.
ranty, it is said, this was a. sale by sample, and

CASES IN TIM SUPREME COURT

1824.
n
The M~onte

Allegre.

that all such sales carry with them a guarantyy
that the article, in bulk, is of the same quality, in
all respects, ,as the sample exhibited. If the rules
of law which govern sales by sample, are at all
applicable to this case, it becomes necessary. to
ascertain by whom the warranty is made. In private traulsactions, no difficulty on this head can
arise. A merchant, who employs a broker to sell
his goods, knows, or is presumed to know, the
state and condition of the .article he offlers for
sale; and *if the nature or situation of the property is such that it cannot be conveniqntly examined ill bulk, he has a right, and it is for the
convenience of trade that he should be 'permitted,
to select a portion, and exhibit it as a specimen or
sample of the whole;. and that he should be held
responsible for the truth of such representation.
The -broker is his special agent for this purpose,
aid .goes into the market, clothed with authority
to bind his principal. In such cases, if the article does not coriespond with the sample, the injured purchaser knows where to look for redress;
and the owner is justly chargeable with the loss,
as he was bound to know the condition of his own
property, and to send out a fair sample, if be undertook to sell in that way.

in Judieias
But in judicial sales, like the present, there is
ales,
there is
no warranty. no analogy whatever to such practice.
The pro.

ceedings are, altogether, hostile to the owner of
the goods sold, which are taken against his will,
and exposed to sale without his consent. "And it
would be great injustice, to make him responsible
for the quality of the goods thus taken from him.

645

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Nor can the Marshal, or auctioneer,. while acting
within the scope of their authority, be considered;
in any respect whatever, as warranting the property sold. The Marshal, from the nature of the
transaction, must-be ignorant of the partidular state
and condition of' the property. He is the.mere
minister of the law, to execute the order 6f the
Court; and a dup discharge of his duty does not require m6re, than that lie should give to purchasers
a fair opportunity of examining, and informing
themselves of the nature and-condition of the property offeiid for sale. An ouctiodeer, in the ordiniary discharge of -his duty, is only an agent t'
sell; and in the present case, he acted only as the
special agent of the Marshal, without any. authority, express 'or implied, to go beyond the single
act of selling the goods. And the Marshal, as an
officer to execute the orders of the Court, has no
authority, in his official character, to . do any act
thatshall, expressly or impliedly, bind any one.by
warranty." If he.steps out of his official duty, and
does what the law has given him no authority to do;
he may make himself personally responsible, 'and
the injured party must look to him for redress.
With that question, however, we have not, necessarily, any concern at present. But in that point
of view, we see- nothing. in the present case, to
justify the conclusion,.- that the Marshal went beyond what-w'as strictly his official duty. This was
not a sale by-sample, according to tle mercantile
understanding of that practice, or the legal.acceptation of the'term. In such sales,'the purchaser

1824.
T

AUegme

646

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

trusts. entirely to his warranty ; and in general is

The M onte

not referred to, nor has he an opportunity of ex-

Allegre.,

amining, the article in bulk ; and, at all events, is
not chargeable with negligence, if he omits to
make the examination, which he has it in his power to do. Although most of the witnesses speak of
the tobacco exhibited at tOe auction, as a sample,
we must look at the whole transaction, and see
what is the judgment of law upon it, and not be
governed- by what may be miscalled a sample.
The Marshal denies that he ever authorized the
atctioneer to sell by sample; he says he saw some
seroons opened, but he supposed it was to show
the description of property, or the species of goods
offered for sale ; that he never examined the tobacco himself, and knei nothing about it; that he
never did sell by sam, le,* and never conceived
himself authorized so to do ; and the auctioneer
does not pretend to have tad any authority or instructions from the Marshal to sell by sample.
Whatever, therefore, from the testimony of the
auctioneer, bears the appearance of a sale by sam-.
pie, was of his own mere motion 'and without authority; and if the appellant has been misled by
any one, it must have been the auctioneer; and if
he has exceeded his authority, so as to make biwself personally responsible, redress, if at all to be
had, must be from him alone ; and in examining
his testimony, it ought not to bre lost sight of, that,
after the sale, he became interested in the purchaue,
and probably looks to the event of this suit for indemnity for his own loss. But his testimony, when
taken together, affords no just inference against

OF THE UNITED STATES.

64-7

him." He -states, that a partof the tobacco was sto- 1824.
red at Fel's Point, a part on Smith's wharf, and
from sixty to-eighty seroons in the warehouse of Alegre.
himself and partner, which was so anrumnwed at
thetime of the sale ; that fifteen or twenty seroons
were taken into the street, out of which three or
four were opened; as a-sample of the whole parcel,
by which the whole quantity was sold. But he
also states, that the ftode in which this tobacco
wat sold, is- the vual and ordinary mode in
which merchandise is generally sold at auction,
when no specifid directions'to the contrary are given. This shows very satisfactorily, that he did
not understand the sale to be by samp., in the legal sense of the term, so as to carry with it a *arranty. For sales at auction, in the usual mode,
are never understood to be accompanied by a warranty. Auctioneers-are special agents, and have
only authority to sell, and -not to warrant, unless
specially ifistructed so to do. Information was
given to tho&e who attended the auction, where
the tobacco was stored, to give them an opportudity. of examining it, if they were disposed to-do
it. -Somewho attended with a'view of purchasing,
.didexanine, and satisfied. themselves that it was
unsound. Not only-that which was stored at-a distanae was found -in this condition, .but also that
WhiCh was in the store house, where the auction
was held; and under the immediate view of purchasers. "Theappellanthad it, therefore, in his power, to obtain. t6esame information with respect to
-the condition of the tobacco, if he had thought it
worth while togive-himself the trouble. So that

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

whatever loss bb' has sustained is attributable

\iot
The ,"onte solely to his, own negligence, without the fault- or

misconduct of any one; and the law will not, and
ought not, to afford him redress. In sales of this
description particularly, and generally in all judicial sales, the rule caveat emptor must necessarily
apply, from the nature of the transaction ; there
.being no one to whom recourse can be had for indemnity against any loss which may be sustained.
Is there, then, any thing peculiar in the powers
Judicial sales
in Admiralty
proceedings of a Court of Admiralty that will authorize its interAllegre.

are to be go-

verned by the
same

rules

as

other

in

Courts.

position, or justify granting relief, to which a party
is not entitled by the settled rules of the common
law? We know of no such principle. Courts

of Admiralty proceed, in many cases, in rem. But
this does not alter the, principles by which they
are to be governed in the disposition of the res.
It is true that the proceeds of the ionte Allegro
and her cargo remain in the Circuit Court, and
may be subject to the order of this Court, if a
proper case was made out, which, in law or
equity, fixed a charge upon this fund. These proceeds are in Court as the property of the original
owners, and for distribution only. And if such
owners would not be liable at law for the loss upon
the tobacco, it is not perceived that any principles
of justice or equity will throw such loss upon their
property. The principle, if well founded, cannot depend upon the contingency, whether.or not
the proceeds shall happen to remain in Court until
the defect in the article sold is discovered. If the
proceeds are liable, they ought to be followed into
the hands of the owner after distributton ; and it'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

they cannot be reached, the remedy ought to he
inpersonan. Such is the end to which the doctrine must inevitably lead, if well founded. But
it is presumed no one would push it thus far.

649

1824.
The Monte
AIlegre.
tPratie

of

There is no rule in Courts of equity to sanctipn the cauc, or

what is now asked for on the part of the appel- equity.

lant. The case of Savile v. Savile, (I P. Wins.
746.) is not at all analogous. The application.
there, was to compel the purchaser of certain property to complete his contract, he wishing t6 forfeit his deposit, and go no farther ; and the question was, whether he should be compelled to go
on and complete the contract: and the Court
permitted him to forfeit the deposit, considering it
a hard bargain, not fit to be executed. But, in
the case before us, the contract was executed.
Every thing respecting it had been consummated
months before the discovery of the damaged condition of the tobacco. The property had been
delivered, and the consideration money paid; and
the bargain was as much beyond the control of the
Court, as if the discovery of the defect had been
made years afterwards. We are, therefore, brought
back to the question, whether, in sales like the
present, the rule caveat emptor is to be applied;
and thinking, for the reasons already suggpsted,
that it is, the decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the petition, must be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.
VOL. IX.

