OF THE iJNITED STATES.

of tenants by sufferance, with regard to whom entry and suit was just as indispensable, as with regard to any other tenure. (Co. Lit. 57.) In the
application of the doctrines on the statute of limitations, the incidents to the two tenures ought not
to be confounded.
Judgment affirmed.

[DEvIsE.
ROBERT

CONIDITION PIECEDENT OIL SUBSEqU-NT.)'

J. TAYLOR and others, Appellants.
V.

JOHN THOMPSON MASON,

Respondent.

Ri.B., being seised of lands in Maryland, made three instruments of
writing, each purporting to be his will. The first, dated in 1789,
gave his whole estate to his nephew, J. T. M., after certain pecuniary legacies to his other nephews and nieces. In the second will,
dated in 1800, the testator gave his whole real estate to J. T. Ml.,
during his life; and after his death, to his eldest son, A., in tail,
on condition of his changing his name to .. Barnes, with remainder to the heirs of his nephew, J. T. M., lawfully begotten, for
eve;, on their changing their sumrnames to Barnes.
The third will, which was executed after the others, and probably in
1805, after some small bequests, proceeded thus: 1 give the whole
of my property, after complying with that I have mentioned, to
the male heirs of my nephew, J. T. M., lawfully egllen, for
ever, agreeably to the law of England, which was the law of our
State before the revolution, that is, the oldest male heir to take
all, on the following terms: that the name of the one that may hare
the right at the age of twenty-one, with his consent, be changed
to A. Barnes, by an.act of public authority of the State, without
any name 'added, together with his taking an oath, before he has

~3255
1824.
Taylor

v.
M n,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

possession, before a magistrate of St. Mary's county, and have it
in the office of the Clerk of the county, that he will not
make any change, during his life, in this my will, relative to my real
property. And on his refusing to comply with the above mentioned ternS, to the next male heir, on the above mentioned terms;

Srecorded

Taylor
v.
Mason.

and so on, to all the male heirs of my nephew, J T. M., as may
be, on the same terms ; ar, 1 all of them r.efusing to comply, in a
reasonable time after they .ave arrived at the age of twenty-one,
say, not exceeding twelve months, if in that Lime it can be doffe,
so that no act of intention to defeat my will shall be allowed of;
and on their refusing to comply with the terms above n."ntioned,
if any such person may be, then to the son of my late nephew, J.
T. M., named A. T. M., on the above mentioned terms; and on
his refusal, to his brother, J. T. M. ; and on his refusing to comply
with the above mentioned terms, to the heirs male of my nephew,
A. B. T. M., lawfully begotten, on the above mentioned terms;
and on their refusal, to the male heirs bf my niece, Mrs. C., lawfully begotten, 3n their complying with the above mentioned terms;
and on their reTusal, to the daughter of my nephew, J.T. M., named
Mary, so on to any daughter he may have or has." The testator
then appoints J. T. M. his sole executor, with a salary of 1600 dollars per annum, for his life, and adds, 't and my will is, that he
shall keep the whole of my property in his possession, during his
life." He then empowers his executor to manage the estate at his
discretion, to employ agents, and to pay them such salaries as he
sh.ll think proper; to repair the houses, and build others, as lie
ma.y think necessary; to reside at his plantations, and to use their
produce for his support; and adds, " after which, to be the property of the person that may have a right to it, as above mentioned."
1Aei, that the conditions, annexed to the estate devised to the oldest
male heir of J. T. M., were subsequent and njt precedent, and
that, consequently, the contingency on which the devise was to
take effect, was not too remote, the estat,) vesting on the death
of J.T. M.; to be devested, on the non-performance of the condition.
Quire, Whether J. T. M. took an estate tail ?
Quirre, Whether the last will revoked those which preceded it?

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The bill in this cause was filed in behalf of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

one of the coheirs of Richard Barnes, deceased,

327
1824.

'e'
and her children; and claims an account of the Taylor

profits of his estate, from the defendant, 3. T.
possesM., also a co-heir, who claims and holds
sion of the estate, under the will of the said
Richard.
Three instruments of writing, purporting to be
the will of the testator, all of them properly authenticated, were exhibited in the record. The first,
dated on t6e 31st day of October, in the year 1789,
gives his whole estate, after pecuniary legacies to
his other nephews and niece, to the defendant,
J. T. M.
In the second will, which is dated the 16th day of
July, 1800, the testator gives his whole real estate
to J. T. M. during his life, and after his death to
his eldest son, Abraham, in tail, on condition of
his changing his name to Abraham Barnes, with
remainder to the heirs of his nephew, J. T. M.,
lawfully begotten, forever, on their changing their
surname to Barnes.
The third will is without date, but is proved, by
its contents, to have been executed after the others,
probably in the year 1803. After some small bequests, the testator says, "I give the whole of my
property, after complying with what I have mentioned, to the male heirs of my nephew, J. T. .1).,
lawfully begotten, for ever, agreeable to the law
of England, which was the law of our State before
the revolution, that is; the oldest male heir to
take all, on the following terms -that the name of
the one that may have the right, at the ag of
twenty-one, with his consent, be changed to Abra-

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
v
Taylor
V.
Mason.

ham Barnes, by an act of public authority of the
State, without any name added; together with his
taking an oath, before he has possession, before a
magistrate of Saint Mary's county, and have it recorded in the office of the clerk of the county, that
he will not make any change during hiis life in this
my will, relative to my real property. And on his
refusing to comply with the above mentioned
terms, to the next male heir on the above mentioned terms; and so on, to all the male heirs of my
nephew, J. T. M., as may be, on the above terms;
and all of them refusingto comply, in a reasonable
time after they have arrived at the age of twentyone, say not exceeding twelve months, if in that
time it can be done, so that no act of intention to
defeat my 'ill shall be allowed of; and of their
refusing to comply with the terms above mentioned, if any such person may be, then to the son of
my late nephew, J. T. M., named A. T. M., on
the above mentioned terms; and on his refusal,
to his brother, J. T. M.; and on his refusing to
comply with the above mentioned terms, to the
heirs male of my nephew, A. B. T. M., lawfully
begotten, on the above mentioned terms; and on
their refusal, to the male heirs of my niece, Mrs.
Chichester, lawfully begotten, on their complying
with the above mentioned terms; and their refusal,
to the daughter of my nephew, J. T. M., named
Mary; so on, to any daughter he may have or
has." The testator then appoints J. T. M. his
sole executor, with a salary of sixteen hundred dollars per year for his life; and adds, "and that my
will is,
that he shall keep the whole of my proper-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ty in his possession during his life." The testator
then empowers his executor to manage the estate
at his discretion, to employ agents, and to-,Vay
proper; to rethem such salaries as he shall think
pair the houses, and to build others, as he may
think necessary; to reside at his plantations, and
to use their produce for his support; and adds,
"after which, to be the property, of the person
that may have a right to it, as above mentioned."
The testator also requires his executor to take an
oath, "that he will justly account for the property
that he may have the power of."
Richard Barnes died in April, 1804, and J. T. M.
proved three several paper writings, as his last will,
and qualified as his executor. The testator had
one brother, who died in his lifetime without issue, and one sister, who intermarried with Thompson Masoni, and died also in the lifetime of the
testator, leafing three sons, H. T. M., A. B. T. M.,
and J. T. M., and one daughter, A. T. M., one
of the complainants, who intermarried with R.
W. Chichester. The rights of the said A. T.
Chichester are conveyed, by deed, to trustees, for
the benefit of herself and children. J. T. M. had
no son living at the death of the testator, but has
two after-born sons, who are now alive.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and the
ause waq brought by appeal to this Court.
The appellants made the following points in
this Court:
1. That the third will, whether its disposi.tioD
VOL. IX.

42

529
1824.
Tylor
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

IB24.
ao
•Taylor

V.
Mason.

be valid or not, revokes the other two, since it
expresse a clear intention on the part of the testator, to dispose differently of the whole estate.
2. That it gives no estate for life or yearsi ab-

-

solute or in trust, to JohnThompson Mason, the
respondent, but merely the custody and care of
the property, during his life, as agent or curator,
with a salary for his services.
3. That no estate for life or years, can be
raised for him by implication, because the original estate did not move from him, and never was
in him.
4. Consequently, that he has no estate of freehold, with which a subsequent limitation in fed
could unite, so as to create a fee in him) under
the rule in Shelly's case.
5. That if he takes a life estate, it ip merely
fiduciary, and not beneficial, for which reason it
could not unite with a limitation over in fee, if
there were one, so as to give him a fee under the
rule.
6. That the words in this will, "' the male heir
of my nephew, John Thompson Mason, lawfully
begotten, for ever," as explained and modified
by the subsequent expressions, designate the
" male heir of the body of J. T. Mason," as the
person who is to take the estate, and thus operate
a s a" desbriptioversona," and not as a "limitation." Consequently, that they 'do not create
such an estate of inheritance, as is capable of
uniting with a life estate, under the rule; but must
operate, if at all, as a devise, per se, of an estate

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in possession or remainder, or as an executory

1824.

devise.

Taylor

7. That this disposition cannot operate as the
of
devise of an estate in possession, for want
some person, in existence at the testator's death,
who could then take: Ist. Because the person designated, was to be "the heir" of John Thompson Mason, who was then alive, and nemo est
lAtres viventis. 2d. Because, as he had then no
issue male, or heir male ofhis body, there was
no person who answered the description, taken
in its largest and most general sense.
8. That the disposition in question cannot operate as a remainder, vested or contingent, because
there was no preceding estate to support it; none
having been directly given to John Thompson
Mason by the will, or being raised for him by
implication.
9. That, admitting John Thompson Mason to
have a life estate under the will, which might support a remainder, this disposition cannot operate
as a vested remainder, because, at the testator's
death, there was no person in existence who answered the description; nor as a contingent remainder, because it depended on two distinct and
successive contingencies: 1st. That John T. Mason should have a son; 2d. That this son should
live to the age of twenty-one years, then assume
the name of Abraham Barnes, by legislative authority, and take the oath prescribed by the will,
which is a possibility too remote.
10. That this disposition cannot be supported
as an executory devise, because it was to take

v.
31ason.

CASES IN .THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

v.

effect on two remote. and contingent e.vents: 1st,
That the eldest son of John T. Mason should
voluntarily, and after he attained the age of

twenty-one years, change his name to that of

Abraham Barnes, through the operation of a legislative enactment; and, 2d. That he should take
an oath, as prescribed by the will; which eventr,
if they took place at all, might not happen within
the lifetime of John Thompson Mason, and
twenty-one years and nine months afterwards.
.'arc&sd,

The cause was fully argued, upon all these
points, by Mr. Jones and Mr. Harperfot the appellants, and by the Attorney-General and Mr.
Entmet, for the respondents; but, as the questions
whether an estate tail vested in John Thompson
Mason, and whether the last will revoked those
which preceded it, were not considered and determined by the Court, it has not been thought
necessary to report that part of the argument.
The counsel for the appellants stated, that as
to whether a condition be preceder or stbequent,
it is always a matter of construction, depending
on the intention of the testator. The principle
is, that where an intention appears to create an
estate at all events, and merely to annex a condition to it, by which it may be defeated, this is
a condition subsequent: and if followed by a limitation over, in case the condition be not fulfilled,
it makes a conditional limitation. But if the
intent appear to be, that the vesting or creation

M

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the estate shall depend on the condition, then
it is precedent.a There could be no dispute as to
general principles, which were incontrovertibly
settled by all the authorities.

The only question

was, as to the application of them to the particular
case. They entered into a critical examination of
the words of the last will, to show that the conditions annexed to the estate devised to the oldest
male heir of J. T. M., were precedent and not
subsequent.
The counsel for the respondents considered
the conditions as subsequent and not precedent;
or rather, they considered them as conditional
limitations, attached to, and defeating, in each
instance, the preceding estate, on refusal to perform the acts required, and thus creating 'a new
estate in tail male. It was said to be laid down
by the authorities, that there are no precise technical words required in a deed, (a fortiori in a
will,) to make a stipulation a condition precedent
or subsequent.' Neither does it depend on the
circumstance, whether the clause was placed prior
or,posterior in the deed, so that it operated as a
proviso or covenant; ir the same words have
been construed to operate as either the one or the
other, according to the nature of the transaction.0
a 2 Cre
Dig. 3, 4, 5. Cas. temp. Talb. 165. 1 T. I. 645.
2 Bos. J Pull. 295. 2 iern. 620. Pearne.Cont. Rem. 424, 425.

502.

Coil. Jurid.378.

6 1 Pl Lw.
23. 2 Vern. 66 0, Gas. temp. Talb. 164. 1 Burr.
38. 4 Burr. 1929.
c Hotham V. Eastindia Co. 1 T. R. 645.

1824.
Taylor

V.

Masoa.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

V.

Thus, Lord Eldon says," " I take it to be fully
Ssettled,: that a cQndition is to be construed to be
precedentor subsequent, as the intention of the
testator may require." And Heath, J., in the same
case, adds, " It has been truly said, that there
are no technical words by which a condition precedent is distinguishable from a condition subsequent; but that each case is to receive its own
peculiar construction, according to the.tintent of
the devisor." Now, let that test be applied to
the point in question. It is clear that the testator intended the estate for the benefit of the sons
of J. T M., after his death, and successively for
the heirs male. If this be a condition precedent,
as is contendedby the appellant, and the will of
1789 be entirely revoked, the fee will be in the
heirs at law, from the death of J. T. M., till the
condition be performed, and the rents, issues, and
profits, belong to them. Suppose the first heir
male an infant of tender years; the rents, &c. do
not go to his maintenance and education, nor yet
accumulate for his benefit, as was directed, even
in the lifetime of his father. Let him die under
twenty-two, without having performed the condition, leaving an infant son; that son must take by
inheritance, if at all, and not by purchase. Can
he take by inheritance from his father, an estatq
tail that never'vested in his father ? But suppose
he can, there is still another long enjoyment of
the estate by the heirs at law, fur their own.benefit, The appellants seek, by making this a con. a In Planner v. Scudamore, 2 Bo, .

PuL.295.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

35

dition precedent, entirely to defeat the testator's

1824.

bountiful intentions in favour of J. T. M.'s -fa-

Taylor

mily: for they say, this being a condition preceV.
Hason.
cona
as
effect
take
cannot
limitation
the
dent,
tingent remainder; for then there would be three
contingencies, and a possibility on a possibility
necessary to its vesting. It is clear, then, that to
preserve the testator's primary or general intention, or indeed any part of his intention towards
.that fanfily, the terms must not be considered as
a condition precedent. In a will, no words of
condition are too strong to bend to the testator's
intention. Thus, "if a man -devises a term to
A., and that if his wife suffers the devisee to enjoy it for three years, she shall have all his goods
as executrix; but if she disturbs A., then he
makes B. his executor, and dies; his wife is executrix presently: for though in grants, the estate
shall not vest till the condition precedent is performed, yet it is otherwise i*?a will, which must
be guided by the intent of the parties; and this
shall not be construed as a condition precedent,
but only as a condition to abridge the power of
the executrix, if she perform it not."a Although
the conditions over may be void, their existence
may be used to illustrate the testator's'intention,
and to show that this was intended to operate only
as a limitation. It was intended that every one
having the right, should change his name, and
take the oath, before he had possession; "so that
no'act of intention to defeat his will should be
a Innings v. Gore, Cro. Eiz. 219.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"through
Taylor

v.
Mason.

allowed of."

Those, then, taking by inheritance

the first heir male, were to be subject to

this condition, and on their refusing, the estate
was to go over. It is impossible to contend, that
those so taking by inheritance, should be regarded
as purchasers, or that, with them, this should be
considered as a condition preedlent and why
should not the same construction of the testator'"
intention, that must be given with rbspect to
them, be given in the first instance, where the
same proviso is used, viz. that it is a conditional
limitation, on the refusal to perform which, the
antecedent estate is defeated, and a new one
arises? Unquestionably the limitation, on refusal
to comply, is a conditional limitation. If, then,
between such conditional limitation and a condition precedent, bearing on the same object, (let
the words be ever so clear,) there be a positive
incompati bility, the principle must be applied,
that if words be so inconsistent that they cannot
possibly stand or be reconciled, those words shall
be. rejected which are least consistent with the

general intention of the testator." The incompatibility between conditions and conditional limitations, results from this: "conditions can only
be reserved.to the feoffer donor, lessor, or their
heirs, but not to a stranger;" and this by implication, without any words of reservation; and for
a 2 Ponbl. E. q. 3. s. b. (Note 1.p. 69.) Haws v. Haws, $
Atk. 524. 1 Vez. 14. Perkins v. Bayntum, I Bro. Chi. Ca&.,118,
Doe v..Aplyn, 4 T. R. 88.
b 1 Co. Litt. 214 b.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

every condition broken, the heir of the donor
shall enter, and by so doing, restore thea original
estate. So that, except in gavelkind and boroughenglish,band a husband's alienating hiswife's estate
on conditionl the heir at law enters and holds for
his own benefit. This applies to conditions subsequent. As to conditions precedent, the estate
remains in the heir at law, and never vests till the
performance of the condition, and, during all that
time, the heir at law holds it beneficially. But
the effect of a conditional limitation is, that the
next devisee alone can enter, and he takes and
enjoys for his own benefit. Now, it is incompatible, that the heir at law should have the right to
hold the estate for his own benefit, and the devisee to hold it for his benefit; and in these incompatible results, the question, which shall prevail,
must depend upon which is conformable to the
inteiflion of the testator. Thus, it is laid down
that

"

words of an express condition shall not

ordinarily be construed into a limitation; but
where an -estate is to remain over for breach of a
cofidition, which is by express words a condition,
yet it otight t6 be intended as a limitation."d And
the contrary doctrine in Mary Portington'scase,'
ha@ beein.often denied to be law!

b Godb.S.

c 8 Co. 43.
d Pagev. Hayward; IIMod. 61. 2 Sah 578.

e 10 6o. S5.
f BrOw. 65. RoMl. Ar. 412.- VPer.
2 Show.S98. I BOO. 4 Pul 313.

vam4$

4

200. '3Leo. 132.

1824.
Taylor

I.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

v.

The expression "before he has possession," is
much relied on, as showing a condition precedent.
But is must, like other equally strong expressions,
bend to the testators general intent, and to the

words "who.has the right." How "has the right,"
if obtaining an act of the legislature and changing
the name after twenty-one, be a condition precedent? For thenno estate can vest, and'no right
be had, till the condition be performed. So it is
said, the. will shows the right is not to commence
till he has arrived at twenty-one. But the ago of
twenty-one connects itself, both in sense and
grammar, with the act to be done, and not with
the vesting of the right. The expression "refusing'to comply," and the giving over the estate to
others, show the refusal to be the definite act, by
which one estate was to be determined, and the
other to commence. Thus where similar words
were used, "on condition that he should in twelve
months after ths testator's death, or in twelve
months after her attained the age of twenty-one
-years, suffer a recovery of an estate in the county
of Warwick, and settle it to certain uses," they
were clearly taken to be a condition subsequent,
and not a conditional "limitation.a - Indeed, the
words "before he has possession," are susceptible
of another interpretation, consistent with the previous vesting Qf the estate. The testator did not
view all. possible contingencies accurately. He
clearly took for granted that the one to take would
be an infant, and meant to make a provision accordingly. He probably used those words to disa Duke of Montaguev. Beaulieu,- 3 Bro. Part! Cas. 277.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

339

tinguish the time when a guardian would receive 1824.
the rents, issues and profits, from that when the Taylor
V.
minor would come into the actual possession of
Dasn.
his estate.
The cause was continued for advisement, to the
present term.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- Feb. 5, 182._
niond.of.the Court; and, after stating the case,
proceeded as follows:.
If the estate should yield .any surplus profits,
after satisfying the charges placed on it by-the testator, J. T. M, is directed to account for those profits,- and they are the property of" the person that
may have the right," according to the language of
the will.
Are the heirs at law the persons "who havethe
right;" according'to this language ?
Certainly not. 'The plain intention of the will
is to exclude them. They admit this; and sup,port their claim by alleging that the will, so.far as
respects:the devises which are to take .place after
the death of J. T. M., is'
utterly 'void, the limitations- over being too remote.
The first limitation is to "the male heirs of my
nephew, J. T. M., lawfully begotten, for ever,
agreeably to the law of-England," that is, the oldest male heir to take all.
If the clause stopped here, there could be no
question in the case. The person who should be
the eldest male heir of 3. T. M. at the time of his
death, would take the estate. But the testator
proceeds to prescribe the "terms" on Which such

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

V.

Mason.

eldest'male heir should take. They are, "that the
name of the one that may have the right, at the
age of twenty-one, with his consent, be changed
to Abraham Barnes, by an act of public authority
of the State, without any name added, together
with his taking an oath before he has possession ;"
"that he will not make any change during his life
in this my will, relative to my real property. And
on his refusing to comply with the above mentioned terms, to the next male heir, on the above mentioned terms; and so on, to all the male heirs of
my nephew, J. T. M., as may be, on the above
terms; and all of them 4efusing td comply in a
reasonable time after they have arrived at the age
of twenty-one, say not exceeding twelve months,
if in that time it can be done, so that no act of intention to defeat my will shall be allowed of; and
on their refusing to comply with the terms above
mentioned, if any such person may be, then t6 the
eon of my late nephew, H. T. M." &c.
The time allowed the eldest male heir ofJ. T. M.
to perform the condition on which his estate would,
according to the words of the will, become absolute, is twelve months after he shall attain his age
of twenty-one years. As J. T. M. might die,
leaving nL son alive at his death, but leaving his
wife ensient of a son, it is obvious that the contingency on which the estate depended might not
happen within a life, or lives, in being, or within
twenty-one years and nine months after the dkath
of J. T-. M. If, therefore, the estate did not vest
untifl the contingency should happen, the liuiita.
tion over to the eldest male heir of J. T. M., de-

OF-THE UNITED STATES.

341

pends on an event which is too remote to be tolera- 1824.
ted by the policy of the law, and the remainder is, Taylor
V.
consequently, void. If, on the contrary, the estate
is to vest on the death of J. T. M., to be devested Mhson.
on'the non-performance of the condition, the limitation in remainder is valid, and the plaintiffs ard
not entitled to the account for which the bill prays.
The inquiry, then, is, whether the conditions
annexed to the devise of the remainder, be precedent or subsequent; and this, it is admitted, must
be determined by the intention- of the testator,
which intention is to be searched for in his will.
All the instruments of writing purporting to be
his last will, show that his firm and continuing purpose, from the 31st day of October, in. the year
1789, to.-the time of his death, in the year 1804,
was to preserve his estate entire for the benefit of
a single devisee, and not to permit it to be divided
among his heirs. The same papers, likewise, show
that the first object of his affection and bounty,
was J. T. ML.; and the second, was the eldest male
heir ofJ. T. M. An ample and uniconditional
provision, perhaps equivalentto the whole value of
his real -estate, is ,made for 3. T. M. during his
life; and on his death, the whole real estate, with
aiy residuum of profit which might possibly be acclmulated during his life, is given to his eldest
male heir. If these devises should be expressed
in ambiguous. language, this obvious and1 paramount intention. ought to. serve as a key to the
coustruotion. *
The languaga of the devise in remainder, imx"rts aA intention that-it should take effect on the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

v.
Naso,,.

determination of the particular estate. So soon as
J.T. M., the first object of his bounty, is removed, the eldest male heir of J. T. M., the second object of Lis bounty, comes into view : "I give 'the
whole of my property" "to the male heirs of my
nephew; J. T. M., lawfully begotten, for ever,
agreeable to the law of England; that is, the oldest male heir to take all, on the following terms,"
&c. These words postpone the interest of the
devisee no longer than till he can be ascertained;
that is, till the death ofJ. T. M., who was to occupy the premises for his life. The eldest male heir
of J. T. M. would be known at his death, at which
time the particular estate which was carved out of
-this general devise, v )uld determine, or at farthest, within nine m, nths afterwards. The language is not such as a man would be.apt to use
who contemplated any interval between the particular estate and the remainder. The words import the same intention, as if he had said, Igive to
the eldest male heir of J. T. M, all my property,
on condition that, at the age of twenty-one years,
his name be changed to that of Abraham Barnes,
by an act of public authority of the State, &c.
Such words, it seems to the Court, would carry the
estate immediately to the devisee, without waiting
for the performance of the condition.
With thi s general intent, manifested in each
of these instruments, and this language, showing
the expectation that no interest would intervene
between the particular estate devised to J. T. M.
and that to his eldest male heir, the conditions' on
which that devise was made, must be expressed

OF. THE UNITED STATES.

in-language to show very clearly, that they were
to be performed before the estate
could vest, to
•
justify the Court in putting that construction on
this will.

Let that language be examined. The devise
is of the whole property to the male heirs of J.
T. M., in succession, the eldest to take first.
The condition is to bb performed by "the one
that may have the right.". In the mind of the
testator, then, the right was to precede the condition, not be created by it. He would not have
described the person who was to perform the condition, as already having "the right," if the impression on his mind had been, that no person
would have the right until the condition should be
performed.
This expression is entitled to the more influence,
from the consideration that the condition is to be
performed by the person having the right at the
age of twenty-one, or in a convenient time afterwards. The devisee might be an infant at the
time of the death of J.T.M. The person who has
the right, if an infant, is allowed till he attains
his age of twenty-one years, and .a reasonable
time afterwards, to perform the condition. This
is inconsistent with the idea that the condition
must be performed before the estate vested, before the right accrued.
The testator then directs, in addition to the
change of name, that an oath, prescribed in his
will, shall be taken, and then proceeds,- il and on
his. the person that may have the right) refusing

343
1824.
Taylor

V.
Mason.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Taylor

v.

to comply with the above mentioned terms, to the
male heir on the same terms."
The property is, in the first instance, devised
to all the male heirs of J. T. M., the oldest to
take first. The testator then proceeds to describe
the state of things in which the next oldest is to
take. That state of things isthe Tefusal of the
oldest to comply with the terms annexed to the
estate given to him. Upon this refusal, the devise
is immediate. No intervention of the heir at law
is necessary to defeat the title of the oldest, and
to vest the property in the next male heir. But,
until this refusal, the rights of the oldest remain
unchanged.
Although the words "refusing to oomply," may,
in general, have the same operation in law as the
words " failing to comply" would have; yet, in
this case, they are accompanied and explained by
other words, which show that the word " refusing" was used in a sense which might leave the
estate. in the devisee, though his name should not
be changed. Where the condition to be performed depends on the will of the devisee, his
failure to perform it is equivalent to a refusal.
But where the condition does not depetid on his
will, but on the will of those over whom he can
have no control, there is a manifest distinction
between "refusing," and "failing" to comply with
it. The first is an act of the will, the second
may be an act of inevitable necessity.
In this case, the name is to be changed by a
legislative act. Now the eldest male heir of J.
T. MP1. may petition for this act, but the Legisla-

Snext

OF TEE UNITED STrATES.

345

ture may refuse to pass it. In such a case, the 1824.
devisee would not " refuse" to comply with the -Taylor
terms on which the estate was giveii to him;
V.
those terms Would neither be literally nor sub- Arason.
stantially violated. If there were nothing in thi6
words of the will to give additional strength to
this construction, the refusal of the Legislature
to pass the act would not be a refusal of the devisee to comply with the terms, and would seem
in reason to dispense with the condition, as effectually as the passage of an act to render the condition illegal. Its performance would be impossible, without any default of the devisee.
But there are other words which show conclusively that the testator intended, by this expressian, to make the devise to the next and other
devisees to depend entirely on a-wilful and voluntary disregard, on the part of the eldest, of the
terms on which the property was devised td him.
After giving the estate to the male heirs of J.
T. M., in succession, the testator proceeds, "And
all of them refusing to comply, in a reasonable
time after they have arrived at the age of twentyone, say not exceeding twelve months, ifin that
time it can be done, so that no act of "intentiomto
defeat my will shall be allowed of, and of their
refusing to comply with the terms above mentioned, if any such person may be, then to the
son of my late nephew, H. T. M.," &c.
These words expressly refer to all the male
heirs of J. T. M., including the oldest, apply to
each particular devise, and fully explain*the intention of the testator on the subject of the change of
VOL. IX.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"*

name. It is to be changed in twelve months
the devisee attains his age of twenty-one
,.after
Taylor
years, " if in that time it cant be done ;" and
V.
ahSOD.
this provision is made, that -" no act of.intention
to defeat his will may be allowed of." The devise' over is on "refusing" to comply with the
terms on which the estate is .given in the first instance, and this " refusing to comply," takes'
place only "-f it can be done"-exists only where
there is " an act of intention to defeat his will."
If it " cannot be done," if there be " no act of
intention to defeat his will," theii there is not that
" refusing to comply with the terms" on which
the devise over is to take place.
All these provisions appear to the Court to demonstrate that the testator intended the devise to
take effect immediately, to be de'eated by the devisee's refusing to comply with the terms on which
the property was given.
The devisees are, all of them, the coheirs of
the testator, and the whole purpose of the will
is to prevent their inheriting any part of his estate
as his heirs. J. T. M. takes, an interest for life,
beneficially, to a considerable extent, perhaps to
the whole extent of the profits, certainly to the
whole extent, if he chooses to'expend the whole,
except 1600 dollars per annum, in repairs, build-ixgs, and the support of himself and family; and
is to take the'surplus profits, if there be any, as
trustee: but as trustee for whom ? ' For his eldest
male heir, not for the heirs of his t~stator.
That eldest male heir takes the whole properfy, including these .possible surplus profits, on

OF THE UNITED STATES.

certain conditions, one of which is, the changd
of his name by act of Assembly. He. might possibly, nay probably, be an infant, for J. T. M.
had no.male heir at the death of the testator.
The event of his being an infant is particularly
contemplated, and provided .for, in the will. Such
infant devisee is allowed twelve months, after'attaining his full age, to perform the condition. No
provision whatever, if the estate does nct vest immediately, is made for his education r.ad maintenance. Not even these surplus profits, which are
so carefully to accumulate for his use, are given to
him. The infant orphan, heir of an enormous
estate, who was the particular favourite, and
whose future grandeur constituted the pride of his
ancestor, is cast, by this construction, on the world,
without the means of si'bsistence, while the whole
profits of his estate pass, without-account, to those
for whom the testator intended nothing.
The estate is devised, in succession, to each of
the heirs of the testator, on the same condition;
and, if it be a condition precedent, the consequence is, that the same persons who could not
take it in succession, as he wished it to pass, would
take it in common, as he wished it not to pass.
The whole scheme of the will would be defeated,
and an object lie effected, which all his ingenuity
had been exerted to prevent.
In this view of the case, it may'be proper again
to observe, that the devise over to the second male
heir of J. T. M., is limited to take effect on the
refusal of the oldest to perform the terms on which
the estate is given to him. This mustbe a volun-

1824.
Taylor

V.

Mason.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'

Taylor

V.
BIaoM

tary refusal, an " act of intention to defeat his
will." Now, a failure to perform the condition
may take place, although the devisee may have
used his utmost endeavours to perform it: the
Legislature may refuse to p.ass the act required.
If it be a condition precedent, the estate, in
that event, can never vest, and the whole intention of the testator may le defeated, without the'
fault of the devisee. But the will was framed
with very different views. The testator declares,
that each devise over is tp take effect on the previous devisee's " refusing" to comply with "the
terms on which the devise was made to him; on
his obtaining the act of Assembly, " if it can be
done ;" on there being. no "act of intention to defeat his will." This construction would wake the
devise to depend on the will of the Legislature,
although the, testator declares that it shall depend
on the devisee himself.
To take the oath not to make any alteration in
the will, so far as respects the real property, is
completely within the power of the devisee, and
this is directed to be taken "before he has possession." .This direction shows the opinion of the
testator, thai the estate vested immediately, otherwise there could be no necessity for the clause suspending the possession. It would be a very useless
declaration, to say, that the devisee should not take
possession of an estate to which he had no right.
This.assists, too, in marking more clearly the distinction taken by the testator, between a condition
annexed to the estate, which was'in the power of
the devisee,. and one not in his power. The pos-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

session is not postponed until he shall obtain an
act of the Legislature for the change of his name,
but is postponed until he shall take the oath directed by the will.

In the case of Gulliver v. Ashby, (4 Burr.
1929.) William Wykes devised his estate to several persons in ;succession, after the death of his
wife, and added the following clause: " Provided
always, and this devise is expressly on this condition, that whenever it shall happen that the said
mansion house, and said estates, after my wife's
decease, shall descend or come to any of the
persons .herein before named, [that] the person
or persons to whom the same shall, from time to
time, descend or come, [that he. or they] do or
shall then change their surname, and take upon
them and their heirs the surname of Wykes only,
and not otherwise."
In giving his opinion on this case, Lord Mansfield said," First, that this is not a condition precedent. It can not be complied with instantly. It
is ' to take the name for themselves and their heirs.'
Now, many acts are to be done in order to oblige
the, heirs to take it, such as a grant from the King,
or an act of Parliament.. It is not, tHerefore, a
condition precedent, but, being penned as a condition, it must be a condition subsequent."
All the Judges concurred in the opinion, that it
was hnot a condition precedent. Mr. Justice Yates
thought it no more than a recommendation. The
other Judges considered it as a condition subsequent.
To the ieason given by Lord Mansfield. for

1824.
Taylor

V.
Mason.

350

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

considering the conditions on which the testator,
the case in Burrow, devised his estates, as conditions subsequert, are superadded, in the case
at the bar, others of great weight, which have been

Sin

Taylor

.-

M~ason.

mentioned and relied -on.
The cise put at- the bir, that the eldest male
heir of J. T. M4. might die within 'twelve months
after attaining his age of tweniy-6ne years, leaving
an infant son, deserves serious consideration.. If
the estate vested-in the ancestor, it would descend
to him. If the condition be precedent, -the estate
did not vest, ana cannot descend to him. This
would be contrary to the general spirit of t6 will..
If the change of name constituted the whole
condition of the, devise, the proofs furnished by
the will o" its being a conditioni subtequent, are so
strong as to dispel all reasonable doubt. But
there is another condition, respecting which the
intention is less obvious.
The person "that may have the right" is
to
procure an act, of Assembly for the change of
his name, "together with his taking an oath, before lie, has possession, before a magistrqto," &c.
"that he will not make any change during his 'life
in this my will, relative:to my real property."
It has 'been truly said, that this condition is
against law. is repugnant to the nature of the es-'
tate,- and consequently oid. But if this be a
condition precedent, its being voidwill not benefit
the devisee. It becomes "necessary to inquire;
therefore, whether this also be a condition subsequent, ormust be performed before the estate can
est.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

In making the devise, the testator uses the 1824.
words, "I give- the whole of my property." Ir- Taylor
mediately afterwards, he describes the person who
V.
Aaon.
properthe
which
on
conditions
the
is to perform
ty is given, as - th" one that may have the right ;"
hnd, after directing the change of narAe,. adds,
"tgether with his taking an oath, before h6 has
possession,before a magistrate of St. Mary's-county," &c.
The person who "has the right," is to take the
oath "before he has possession." Title then is
distinguished from possession. The most attentive
perusal of the will furnishes iio reaspn for the
opinion that the-testator has confounded possession with title. All those parts of the will which
respect change of name, dispose of the whole property, and dispose of it in such -terms as to show,
we think, a clear. intention that tlh right should
vest in the devisee on the death of J. T. AT., to be
defeated on the norperformance of the condition
annexed to the estate. The clhange of language,
and. the adoption of the word "pos s ess i on," indicate very strongly that the word was used in its
popular sense, to denote the taking, actual and
corporal possession of an estate. The testator
was contemplating the event of an infant becoming
entitled to his property, and providing' for that
-event. Such infant was, within twelve months
after attaining his age of twenty-one years, "if
in that time it could be done," to obtain an act of
the Legislature for the change of his name; and
moreover to take the oath prescribed, "before he
has possession;" alluding, we think, clearly, to
that possession which an infant devisee takes of

SU

his estate; when he attains his majori y.. A difw'ferent construction would make this deVise repugMin fiant to- itself. It would make the devise to dedasoD. . pend on -two b6nditi6wl,. to be performed at the
samer time, and yet th6 one to-precede the vesting'
of ihe estate,and thb-othei"to be capable, of being.
petfbrmed, more than -twenty years after it had
vested:, The *ord' possession cannot be construed as equivalent to right, for the purpose of
prodticing such cdnsequerices as these.
'After disposing'of-his estate in fee tail, the testator proceedg to carve out a particular e .atb for
his favou'itd nephew; . T. M.; and it is not entiiiely -'nworthy of, notice, that he continues the
use 6f the Wvdrd "possession,' with'the obvious ifitent to affix to it the meaning of 'simple'occupancy. It is impossible to read these wills, without
perceiving a continuiig and uninterrupted desire
to bestow his whQle estate on J. T. M. and hid
faminly. The first will gives him the estate'absolutely., His desire to preserve it in mass, and to
connect it with his name, increased with his age;
and his second Will gives his estatie to I. T. M.
for life, remainder to' his eldest son in jail male,
remainder to the heirs of J. T. M., the oldest to
take all, on condition bf theii-'changing their surrame to that of Barnes. The last will contains
intrinsic evidefice that'j preserving the same intention with respect to his estate, he had been. alarmed by the suggestion that the reinainder in tail to
the heirs of J. T. M. might coalesce with his life
estate, and, vesting in him, inight enable him .o
ieak the entail and divide the estate. To re-

1824.
'-'

CASES IN'THE "SUPREME COURT

OF THE, UNITED STATES.

concile his kindness to J. T. M. with his pride, he 1024.
endeavours to give his nephew thep advantages of Taylor
v.
an estate for life, in such .form as to leave him no
Mason.
remark,
of
unworthy
not
power over the fee. htis
that in endeavouring to accomplish this object, he
continues the use of the word "possession." My
wil is, he says, "that he (J. T. M.) shall keep the
whole of my prioperty in his possession during his
life, with full power," &c. Whether the legal effect of this clause be the salre with an express
devise to 3. T. M. for life, remainder to his heirs in
tail, is unimportant with respect to the present inquiry. It shows the intention of the testator, and
the sense in which he used the word, If shows
that he distinguished between possession and title.
The Court is of opinion, that -were the paper
which is supposed to have been executed in 1803
to be considered as constituting singly the will of
Richard Barnes, and were it to be admitted, that
an estate tail did not vest in J. T. M., still the
conditions annexed to the estate devised to his
oldest heir male are subsequent, and not precedent; and, consequently, the contingency on
which the devise is to take effect is not too remote.
This opinion renders it unnecessary to decide the
questions, so elaborately discussed at the bar, whether the last will revoked those which preceded it,
and whether an estate tail is vested in J. T.M. It
would be improper to decide those questions at
this time, because persons may be interested in
them who are not now before the Court
Decree affirmed.
VeL. IX-.

