CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

739
1824.

ring, and no balances are otherwise adjdsted, than

" Osborn
"''-' for the mere purpose of making rests, we are ofopi-

V.
U. S. Bank.

nion, that payments ought to be applied to extinguish the debts according to the priority of time:
so that the credits fAre to be deemed payments pro
tanto of the debts antecedently due.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that for the error of the District Court, on the question of laches, the judgment ought to be reversed,
and a venirefacias de novo awarded, with directions, also, to allow the parties liberty to amend
their pleadings.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.

OSBORN

COArcnY.]

and others, Appqllants,
V.

The

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES,

Respondents.

The act of incorporation of the Batik of the United States 'gives tho

Circuit Courts of the United bates jurisdiction of suits by and
against the Bank.
the charter is warranted 'by the 3d article of the
This provision irl
Constitution, which declares, that." the judicial power shall extend to all taes, in law and equity, arising under this Constittition,
the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority."
It is unnecessary for an attc-r y or solicitor, who prosecutes a sUit for
the Bank of the United States, or other corporatihu, to produce a
warrant of attorney under the corporate seal.
'Whatever authority may be necessary for an attorney or solicitor to
appear for a natural or *artificial person, it is not a ground of re-

OF TJ1

UNITED STATtS.

7S9

1824.
'versal for error, in an appellate Court, that such autority does not
appear on the face of the rtcord. It is a formal defect, which is
cured by the statute of jeofails, and the 92d section of theJudi- Osborn
u.. V.
ciary Act of 1789, ch. 20.
in
read
be
In general, the ansiver of one defendant in equity cannot
evidence against another. But where one defendant succeeds to
another, so that the right of the one devolves on the other, and
they become privies in estate, the rule does not apply.
Where the defendant is restrained by an injunction, from using mehey in his possession, interest will not be decreed against him.
An injunction will be granted to prevent the franchise of a corporation frpm being-destroyed, as well as to restrain a party from violating it, by attempting to participate in its exclusive priviletes.
In'general, an injunction will not be allowed, nor a decree rendered,
against an agent, where the principal is not made a party to the,
suit. But if the principal be not himself subject to the jurisdicof the Court, (as in the case of a sovereign State,) the rule
tichi
may be dispensed with.
A Courtof equity will interpose by injunction to prevent the transfer
of a specific thing, which, if transferred, wilt be irretrievably lost
to the owner, such as negotiable securities and stocks.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction of a bil
brought by the Bank of the United States, for the purpose of protecting the Bank in the ixercise of its franchises, which are threatened to be invaded, under the unconstitutional laws of a State; and,
as the State itself cannot, according to the 11th amendment of the
Constitution, be made a party defendant to the suit, it may be
-maintained against the officers and agents of the State, who am
intristed with the execution of such laws.
A State cannot tax the Bank of the United States - and any attempt,
.an the part of its agents and officers, to enforce the collection of
such tax against the property of the Bank, may be restrained by
injunction from the Circuit Court.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
The bill filed in this cause, was exhibited in the
Court below, at September term, 1819, in the

name of the respondents, and signed by solicitors
of the Court, praying an injunction to restrain

Ralph Osborn, Auditor of- the State of OhiQ,

.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.

from proceeding against the complainants, under
of tthe Legislature of that State, passed
Osborn ,an o act
r a
e t
9 '
V. Fbruary the 8th, ,11819,'entitled,
"An act to levy
VJ$. Bank.
, and collect a tax from all banks, and individuals,
and companies, .4nd associations of individuals,
that may trfnsact banking bpsiness in .this State,
without being allowed to do so by the lawn thereof." This act. after reciting that the Bank of the
United States pursubd its operations contrary to a
law of the State, ehacted, that if, after the 1st day
of the following September, the said Bank, or any
other, should continue to transact btiminess in the
State, it should. be liable to, an annual tax of
50,000 dollars on each office of. discount and deposit., And that on the 15th day Qf gept.ember,
the Auditor should charge such tax to the Bank,
and should make out his warrant, udder his seal
of office, directed to any person, commauding him
to collect the said tax, who should enter the
banking house, and demand the same, anfd if payment should not be made, should levy the amount
on the money or other goods of the Bank, the
money to be. retained, and the goods to be sold,
as if taken on a ft. fa. If no effects shbuld be
found in the banking rooms the person having the
warrant was authorized to go into every rooln,
vault, &c. and to open every chest, &c. in search
of what might satisfy his warrant.
The bill, after reciting this act, stated, that Ralph
Osborn is the Auditor, and gives out, &c. that he
will execute the said act. It was exhibited in open
Court, on the 14th of September, an,, notice of.
the. application havinig been given:t, the de'fen-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dant, Osborn, an order was. made, awarding the
injunction on the execution of bonds and security

1824.
Osborn

in the sum bf 100,000 doilars; after which, a subv.
poona was issued, on which the order that had been U.-Bank.
made for the injunction was endorsed by the solicitors for the plaintiffs; and a:memorandum, that
bond with security had been given by the plaintiffs,
was endorsed by the clerk-; and a p',wer to James
M'Doweil to serve The same, was endorsed by
the Marshal. It appeared, from the affidavit of
M'Dowell, that both the subpcena and endorsement were served on R. Osborn, early in the morning of the 15th. On the 18th of the same month
of September, a writ of injunction was issued on
the same bill, which was served on R.. Osborn and
on John L. Harper. The affidavit of I1'Dowell
stated, that be served the writ on Harper, while
on his way to Columbus, with the money and funds
on which the same were to operate, as he understood; and that the writ was served on Osborn)
before. Harper reached Columbus.
In September, 1820, leave was given to file-a
Oupplemental and amended bill, and to make new
parties.
'The amended bill charges, that, subsequent to
the service of the subpoena and injunction, to wit,
on the 17th of September, 1819, J. L. Harper,
who was employed by Osborn to -colloct the tax,
and well knew that an injunction had been allowed, proceeded by violence to the oAice of the
Bank at Chilicothe, and took-therefrom 100,000
-dollars, in specie ani bank notes, belonging-to,
or in deposit with, the plaintiffs. That this money

74,2
1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was delivered toH. M. Curry, who was then Treasurer of the State, or to the defendant, Osborn,
Osborn
illegal seizure,
U. S Bank) both of whom had notice of the
and paid no consideration for the amount, but received it to keep it on safe deposit. That Curry
did keep the same until he delivered it over to one
S. Sullivan, his successor as Treasurer. That
,neither Curry nor Sullivan held the said money in
their character as Treasurer, but as individuals.
The bill prays, that the said H. M. Curry, late
Treasurer, S. Sullivan, the present Treasuier, and
R. Osborn, in their official and private characters,
and the- said J. L. Harper, may be made defendants; that they may make discovery, and may be
enjoined from using or paying away the coin or
notes taken from the Bank, may be decreed to
restore the same, and may be enjoined from proceeding further under the said act..
The defendant, Curry, filed his answer, admitiing that the defendant, Harper' delivered to him,
about the 20th of September, 1819, the sum of
98,000 dollars, which, he was informed" and believed, was a tax levied of the Branch Baik of
the United States. He passed this sum to the
credit of thc State, as revenue; but, in fact,,kept
it separate from other moneys, until January or
February, 1820, when the moneys in the treasury
were seized upon by-a committee of the House of
Representatives; soon after which he resigned
his office, and the moneys and bank notes, in the
bill mentioned, still separate from other moneys in
the treasury, came to the hands of S.-Sullivanthe

OF THE UNITED STATES.

745

present Treasurer, who gave a receipt for the

1824.

same.

Osborn

V.
The defendant, Sullivan, failing to answer, an
attachment for contempt was issi~ed, on which he 1J.s.Ban.
was taken into custody. He then filed his answer,
and was discharged.
This answer denies all personal knowledge of
the levying, collecting, and paying over, the money
in the bill mentioned.. It admits that he was appointed Treasurer, as successor to Curry, on the
17th of February, 1820, and that he entered the
Treasury on the 23d, and began an examination
of the funds, amotig which he found the sum of
98,000 dollars, which he understood was the same
that is charged in the bill ; but this was not a fact
within his own knowledge. He gave a receipt as
Treasurer, and the money has remained in his
hands, as Treasurer, and not otherwise. The
sum of 98,000 dollars remains untouched, out of
respect to an injunction said to have been allowed
by the Circuit Court, on a bill since dismissed.
He admits the sum in his hands tocorrespond with
the description in the bill, so far as that description goes, and annexes to his answer a description
of the residue. He has no private individual interest in the money, and holds it only as State Treasurer ; admits notice, from general report, and
from the late Treasurer, that the said sum of
98,000 dollars was levied as a tax from the, Bank,
and that the Bank alleged it to be illegal and vpid.
The cause came on to be heard upon these answers, and upon the decrees nisi, against Osborn
and Harper, and the Court pronounced a decree

74

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

directing them to restore to the Bank the sum of
Osborn S100,000 dollars, with interest on 19,830 dollars,
the amount of specie in the hands of Sullivan.
v.
'LS.Bauk. The cause was then brought, by appeal, to this
1824.

Court.
Mr. Hammond, for the appellants, contended,
that the decree was erroneous, for the following
reasons :
1. Because, no authority is shown in the records,
from the Bank, authorizing the institution or prosecution of the suit.
2. Because, as against the defendant, Sullivan,
there are neither proofs nor admissions sufficient
to sustain the decree.
3. Because, upon equitable principles, the case
made in the bill does not warrant a decree against
either Osborn or l1arper, for the amount of coin
and notes in the bill specified to have passed
through their hands.
4. Because, the defendanta are decreed to pay
interest upon the coin, when it was not in the power of Osborn or llarper, and was stayed in the
hands of Sullivan by injunction.
5. Because, the case made in the bill does not
warrant the interference of a Court of Chancery
by iijunction or otherwise.
6. Because,.if any case is made in the bill, proper for the interference of a Court of Chancery, it
is against the State of Ohio, in which case the
Circuit Court could not excr.ise jurisdiction.
7. Because, the decree assumes, that the Bank
of the United States is not subject to the taxing

oF Tar, UMTID STAT

4
M4

power of the State of Ohioi and decides that the 1824.
law of Ohio, the execution of whiph
Obr
• is epjoined,
O.sbom
V.
is unconstitutional.
Bra.L
8.
U.
the
for
shown
'bp
must
1. A sufficient authority
institution of every legal proceeding. This prineiple is peculiarly applicable to 'suits brought in the
nane of corporations ; because, such a body mut
twvys appear by attorney, either;to ipstitute or
defend a legal proceeding. It cannot appear in
person, and it can only constitute an attorpey by
written power, under its common seal. This doe.
trine is not impugned by the decision -of this
Court in the ease of the Bank of Columbiap..
P gtewn
The old- doctrine, that a corporation -could not contract or promiso, except by writing, under its common seal, is overruled in that
case ; and it was adjudged, that a contract made
by a committee duly authorized for that purpose,
binds the Corporation. It seems, also, to be inti,
mated, that a Corporation may, by resolution, or
other act, not under their common seal, duly ap'point and authorize an agent, whose contracts
wbOuld'bind them; and the case of Rexv. Bigg,
is referred to as authority. But, upon looking into that case, it will be t6und, that the principle
is merely laid down by counsel arguendo; and
the counsel, by whom it is advanced, add,
'oBut in ease of any thing of consequence, or the
employing any one to act in their behalf, in a matter which is not an ordinary service, a corporation
a 7 Cranch, 299.
b 3 P. Wie. 419.

Vor'; IX.

94-

CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

V.
V. S. Bank.

aggragate cannot do that without deed." Now,
what can be of more consequence, than such a
suit as this, commeiicii, in effect, against a sovereign State, by this corporation? In F/eckver v.
the Bank of the United Slates,o the Court has
gone no farther, than to determine that the board
of Directors may, by resolution, authorize their
Cashier to transfer bills or n6tes, the property of
the Bank, and need not make a power under seal
for that purpose. This is a very different matter
from*authority to prosecute such a suit as the present. It fallswithin the scope of the 'ordinary official duties of the Cashier. But even admitting
that any express authority from the Bank, whether
under the common seal or not, would have been
the present case, it is indispensable
sufficient in.
that such authority should be produced aind filed;
This has not been done, and therefore it must be
concluded, that the suit is wholly unauthorized by
the corporation, in wfose name it has been commenced.
2. The answer of the defendant, Sullivan, contains no admission that the notes and coin were the
property of the plaintiff, or that the injunction was
violated in taking them from their possession. In
Hills v. Binney,b the bill was filed by a creditor
against an administrator, who, by his answer,
stated, that he belie'ed the debt was due. Mr.
Fonblanque, for the plaintiff, expressed a doubt
whether there was a sufficient foundation for a
a 8 Wheat. Rep. 338.
b 6 Ves.jun. 738.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

decree. Lord Eldon inclined to think it suffi- 1824.
cient; but Mr. Richards, as amicus curie, sug- Osborix'
V.
gesting that it was doubtful, Mr. Fonblanque consented to exhibit an interrogatory. - The admis-U. S. Bank.
sion there, was much stronger than any in the answer of the defendant, Sullivan. He has no where
said, that he believes the notes and coin to be the
property of the plaintiffs ; on the contrary, he avers
that, personally, he knew nothing about the collection of the tax, except from general report, and
the information of the late Treasurer. No proof
whatever, of general report, or of the declarations
of the late Treasurer, would be sufficient to establish any fact. Sullivan's admission of this general report, and of this information, gives it no higher character than it would be entitled to upon being proved. The admission does not support the
decree, and there is no other proof ii, the case.
"3. The'decree against the defendants, Osborn
and Harper, so far as it requires them to puy the
amount of the coin and notes specified in the bill,
to the plaintiffs, is erroneous, because the bill shows
that the same were not in the possession of those
defendants. The foundation upon which a Court
of equity proceeds, is to redress the party under
its protection, not to punish the wrongdoers.
When punishment is the object, process for conteipt is resorted to. Equity will look at the situation of all the parties, and will distinguish among
the defendants, Who can, and who cannot, comply
with such decree, as, upon equitable principles,
must be pronounced. A plaintiff in equity cannot

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
O)sborn

v.

U. S.Bank.

fasten upon the specific subject. for which he sues,
and obtain an order retaining.it in the hands of
one defendant, subject to a'final decree, and obtain a decree fir restitution against other defendants, who, by his own showing, have not the subject in their power. Adiditting thit it was necessary to make all concerned in the trdinsaction defendants, in order to ascertain who had possession
of the subject; yet when that fact was ascertained,
no -decree (except as to costs) could be pronounced against those who were not in possession
of it, and who claimed no interest in it." Whore a
party* acts :unde" -an authrity whioh he supposes
valid, but whjch the Couri adjudge to be void, he
is hot to b. regarded as a principalwrongdoer, further than the purposes necessarily require. In a
Court of equity, he is equitably, not vindictively,
responsible.
4. Under the circumstances of the case, the defendants ought'not to be chargeable-with interest
upon the coin in question. -It may be admitted,
that, in general, where a defendant has wrongfully
Tiossessed himself of the plaintiff's money, and
thus deprived him of the use of it, equity may compel him to -account for interest. But here, the
injunction forbidding the use of the-coin was obtained at the plaintiff's reqiiest. Its' ffect an4
-operation were, to place it in the custody, of the
-law. The defendants could not use it, and, consequently, cannot be charged with interest.
5. No case is made out in the original bill, war,ranting the interposiii6n 6f a Court of equity by
injunction. The injunction, if sustained at all,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

must be upon one of two principles; either that it
was necessary to secure to the Bank the enjoyment
of a franchise. or exclusive privilege, or to protect
it from an irreparable mischief.
All the cases where injunctions have been granted, to protect parties in the enjoymenit of afran-

chise, proceed upon the principle, that the injury
was consequential, not direct, and that it would be
difficult;i.if not impossible, to estimate tlie damages. Thus, the proprietor of a machine, for
which a patent has been granted, or of a book for
whiah a copy-'right has.been obtained, may have
-an iojunction to prevent others from using the ma-ehine, or vendinig the.book. Sio, also, the proprietor of -a toll-bridge or a* urnpike: road, may have
an injunction to.prevent others from constructing
and using a bridge or rioad, where it would be
conttary ..o the terms of the plaintiff's grant. But
in all these cases, the injunction is granted upon
the. principle, -that the act coijiplained of. is not
only unlawful, and, therefore, 'unjustifiable, but
'that it is, in addition to its illegalilty, of a character for-which compensation cannot be made in damages. But no-case can be found of an injunction granted to. protect the. proprietor, in the instances mentioned, against 'the commission of -a
mere trespass,-where the party could have redress
in damages, and whare the trespass would not interfere wftfh the franchise, furthei• than every wrong

.interferes with the right of the individual upon
whom it is'-inflicted. Wherever - an injunction is
granted for the protection of a franchise, the case
must show that the-party has the sole and exolu-

749
1824.
v.
.8. B"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
%Osborn
v.

S.Bank.

sive right to do the act, or transact the business,
which he seeks to inhibit the defendant from performing. Thus, an injunction has been allowed
to the East India Company, to prevent an interference witht he trade exclusively secured to them
by their charter.a But, would an 'injunction be
granted against seizing, by violence, the goods
they may import, or doing injury to their ships
when in port ? So, a person entitled to an exclusive right of ferry, has been allowed an injunction
to prevent ferrying by others.' But it does not
follow that an injunction would be allowed, to prevent an injury which the proprietor might apprehend to his boats, or their tackle, or to the landing
place. Here the original bill does not present a
case for an injunction 'to secure the enjoyment of
a franchise upon these principles. It seeks to be
protected against an injury amounting to a trespass, and nothing more. The bill claims, that it
is one of the corporate franchises of the Bank, to
establish offices of discount and deposit, and
transact banking business, any where, according
to the -discretion of the directors. But it is only
when the franchise confers a sole and exclusive
right, that the jurisdiction of a Court of equity attaches, and it then attaches only so as to prevent
others from invading that right, by attempting an
actual participation in its use and enjoyment. It
cannot be pretended, that tfie charter of the Bank
confers upon it any exclusive right to carry on the
a 1 Ves. 127.

b 1 Ves. 476.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

trade of banking. It cannot, therefore, come into 1824.
a Court of Chancery to seek protection against any person for violating an exclusive franchise.
v.
If it be said, that the privilege of exemption from U.S. BankState taxation is one of this nature, the answer is,
that this privilege operates, not against individuals,
but against the power authorized to lay and collect
taxes. It does not operate against any individual,
who is invested with no power of taxation, but
who commits a trespass under colour of levying a
tax.
Nor can the injunction be supported, upon the
ground that the case presented required this extraordinary interference of the Court, to protect
the Bank against irreparable mischief. It is but
recently that injunctions have been issued to restrain the commission of an act amounting to trespass only. Lord Hardwicke says, "every common trespass is not a foundation for an injunction
in this Court."' Lord Kenyon, Al. R., asserts,
that "a Court of Chancery will not interfere? when
the matter is merely in damages."b And Lord
Eldon says, "1 remember when, in a case of trespass, unless it grew into a nuisance, an injunction
would have been refused."' The first reported.
case of an injunction in trespass, is that of .fitchel -v.
Dorrs, where the defendant had begun to
dig coal in his own ground, and worked into that
of the plaintiffi Lord Eldon said, "That is trespass, not waste. But I will grant the injunction
a 3 Atk. 21.
-b2 Bro. C. C-.
65.

a7 Veg.jr.

307.

752

CASES "INTHE .SUPREME COURT'

1824. upon the tuthority'bf a case before Lord ThurThis last base was. where 'the lundlord
"Osbom -low."
v.
owned. two adjacent dcoses, and demised one.
U..Bank. The tenant comnienced mining for coal
in the deentered
until
he
mised close, and continued to mine
the close not demised. Lord Thurlbw, after great
hesitation, granted the injunction, upon the ground,
as Lord Eldon*himself asterts, of the irreparable
ruin of the property as a mine, and it being a species of trade; and upon -the principle of the Court
enjoining in matters of trespass, where irreparable
damage is the consequence." The next cage was
that of Hanson v. Gardiner,° where an injunction
was granted upon the application of a person
claiming in different rights, one of which was' as
lord of the manor, under the statute of Merton,
against trespass by the commoners, and, upotn
hearing, the injunction was dissolved. An epplication was afterwards made by the devisees of
an equity of redemption, in receipt of the rents,
for -an injunction against the mortgagee; olaimingy
as heir, to restrain him from cutting timber; btit
it was refused.' An injanction was subsequently
granted, at the iaication of the landlord, ito
restrain a person chfrgl t o be in collusion mW
the tenant, from*butting or removiog timber, or
committing any other waste. Lord Eldon puts
.this upon the ground, tbat it partakes more of
a 6 res.jr,

z47.

b 7 Vesjr. 307
c 7 ves.jr. 305.

d Smith *. Collyer, 8 Ves. 89.

OF TH

tWM D STATES.

753

.waste th 4n general cases, and says, he will not 1824.
be -bound as to what
• is" to be done upon a mere
Osboma
trespass .t.Jougl4, he adds,.that it is strange if there
-cannot be an, injunction in that. case, to prevent U.S.Bank.irreparabl

mischief. :.The next case of an in-

junction. 'trespass, is Crodfori -. Akxander."
The -plaistiff.-contracted to sell an estate to the
defndailt, who-got possession from the tenant,
and began to cut timber. The injunction was
allowed; but the Lord Chapcellor says, "I will
grant this protection against cutting timber, until
the power of the court to grant the injunction
.against trespass .shall be fully disausged,." It is
singular,thatin this case Lord Eldon should, again
state the. case decided by Lord Thurlow, respecting the mines; and add, that Lord Thurlow considered it. trespass, not waste, and refused the injunction. The inijunction is justified by analogy;
and reference is made to ..Robinson v. Byron,'
which, upon examination, will be found not to be
a.case:of trespass, but one -where the defendant,
'uaving a command.of the water, was about so to
use it, within "his.own premises, as to throw it out
and deluge the plaintiff.: it was destruction. In
Thomas v. Oakleyc, the plaintiff-was seised in

fee.of an estate, in .which there was a stone -quarry,
and the defendant held a contiguous estate, with
a right to enter the quarry and take stone for a special purpose, but was taking. it fQr other purposes.
a 15 F'r.137.

b 1 Bro. C. C. 588..
c 18 Fes. 185. See also Kinder v.Joneqs 17 FVes. 110. and
Earl Cowper v. Baker, Id. 127.,
VoL. TX.
-95

CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

The counsel insisted that it wasthe course of modern authority, to afford assistance in cases of coal
Osborn
V. mines, timber, &c. to prevent irremediable misIJ.S.Bank. chief and injury, which damages could not compensate. Lord Eldon held, that upon the docisiont; which had taken place, the bill must be sustained. He refers to the first case decidedby Lord
Thurlow, and his hesitation, and adds, "But I
take it that Lord Thurlow changed his opinion
upon that; holding, that if the defendant was
taking the substance of the inheritance, the liberty of bringing an action was not-all the relief
to which, in equity, he was entitled. The interference of the Court is to prevent your removing
that which is his estate. If this protection would
be granted in the case of timber, coals, and lead
ore, why is it not equally to be applied to a
quarry ?"

There is no analogy between these cases and
the present. No estate of a stable and permanent
character is to be injured. The naked suggestion
in the bill is, that the plaintiffs verily believe that
the defendant threatens to do an act amounting to
a mere trespass. Lord Eldon says, "I never
would grant an injunction, upon an affidavit stating that the deponent verily believes the defendant is about to cut timber. ,a Some act must be
done, moving towards the commission of wrong;
such as sending a surveyor to mark trees.' None
of the cases stand upon a mere giuia timet. But
a Etches v. Lance, 7 Ves. 417.
b Jackson v. Cator, 5 Ves. 690.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

here, not even a belief that the defendant meant to 1824.
commit the trespass is asserted. Regard the case Osbor
V.
as against Osborn only and individually; separate
U.S.B=4
Auas
office
hig
from
and
tax,
State
the
from
him
ditor; and whether the bill is brought to protect
a franchise or prevent a trespass, it cannot be
maintained.
* 6. But, in fact, the bill is against the State,
and as such, the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction
of it. In this bill, all the component parts of a
case against the State, are set out in their regular and proper order: the privilege; the measures
set on foot to invade it;. their unjust and oppressive character, and the prayer for relief against
them. There is no allegation against any individual; no relief is prayed qgainst any person in his
private and individual character. The acts complained of, are the acts of the Legislature; the
party charged with aggression -on the plaintiff's
right, is the Legislature; the relief prayed, is
against the acts of the Legislature; the State is
the sole party in interest. It is true, process is
not prayed or awarded against the State; but the
bill is substantially the same as it would have been,
had the plaintiffs intended to make the State a
formal party by process. In all ordinary cases,
if the Court sees from the face of the bill, that
the actual and principal party in interest is not
before them, it will either dismiss the bill, or stay
the proceedings until proper parties are made. A
decree, vitally-affecting the interests of a principal, will never be pronounced, where his agent is
the only party to the bill. In Vernon v. Blacker-

756

CASES IN TIlE. SUPREIIE COURT

1824.
Osborn

v.
U.S. Bank.

lya the suit was brought against the defendant,
treasurer of the commissioners for building fifty
new churches, to compel the payment of moneys
claimed to be due from the commissioners. Lord
Hardwicke dismissed the bill, saying, "it would -be
absurd that a bill should lie against a person who
is only an officer, and subordinate to others, and
has no discrqtionary power. It is absurd to make
a party who acts ministerially, the sole. party."
If, then,.the State be the only party inteiested,
and if the bill, in its terms, and in its effect, bperates solely upon the State, the State ought to be
made a party. If the Circuit Court cannot exercise jurisdiction where the State is a party direct,
it ought not, it cannot, be permitted to obtain that
jurisdiction, by an indirect mode of proceeding.
This would be to disregard the substance of things,
and found a jurisdiction upon arbitrary definition.
We maintain, that the State of Ohio is, in fact,
the sole defendant in this cause : and that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is excluded,
(.) By the constitation of the United States;
(2.) By the judiciary act.
We contend, further, that if the subject matter
in controversy between the actual parties to this
cause, presents a case within the jurisdiction of the
federal judiciary, that jurisdiction is vested exclusively in the Supreme Court, both by the constitution and by the judiciary act.
The constitution, after defining the cases in
which the federal judiciary shall take cognizance,
a 2 Alo. 14.

Or THE UNITED STATES.

declares, that "in all cases affecting ambassadors, 1824.
other public ministersj and consuls; and those in Osbom
v.
which aState shall be a party, the Supreme Court
U.S. 3ank.
shall have original jurisdiction."
- According to-the interpretation given to the constitution by- thig-Court, in Cohens v. Virginia,a a
State may be miade a party, befire the federal
Courts, whereveit the case arises under the constitution, or a law dif the ITnited States; or where
the- controversy is between two States, or one
State and a foreign- State.
In this case,_the controversy arises under the
constitution of th Uniid States, or under the.,act
of incorporation, or under both. It is a case of
original jurisdiction; and by the express'letter of
the constitution, the Supreme Court alone are authorized to take jurisdiction.
In "Marburyv. Madison,' this Court decided,
that it was not competent for Congress to invest
the Supreme Court-with original jurisdiction, in
any othir 66ses than those described in the* constitution., It is supposed, that the principle of this
decision, and the reasoning of the Court in support
of it, both..coiduce -to the conclusion, that where
original jurisdiction is given by the constitution to
the Supreme Court, Congress, cannot distribute
any part of such original jurisdiction to an inferior
federal tribunal. Itwould hardly seem rational
to decide, that the framers of the constitution inserted this clause for no other purpoie but that of
a 6 Wa .Rep.
bjI 66A~c 174.

758

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
0
Osborn
V.
V.S.'Bank.

limiting the power of Congress, as to the cases in
which they should give the Supreme Court original jurisdiction. There could have been no just
ground for apprehending, that the Nationdl Legis-

lature would impose original jurisdiction upon the
Supreme Court to a mischievous extent. Considering the character of the parties, between whom
the constitution invests the Supreme Court with
this jurisdiction, it is a much more rational inference, that it las intended to prevent Congress
from subjecting them to the powe: of any inferior
tribunal. "If the solicitude of the Convention,
respecting our peace with foreign powers, induced
a provision, that the Supreme Court should take
original jurisdiction, in cases which might be supposed to affect them," the same solicitude would
seem to require an ir..erpretation, by which the
original jurisdiction of other Courts should be excided. If Congress be at liberty to give original
jurisdiction to inferior Courts, where the constitution has given it to the Supreme Court, it will be
the easiest thing.in nature to defeat that object,
which the solicitude of the Convention intended to
secure. If these terms do not operate exclusively
upon Congress, they cannot operate exclusively
upon the States; so that the exemption of foreign
ministers from liability in State tribunals, is not
secured by the constitution, but depends upon, an
act of Congress, and may be put an end to whbnever the National Legislature choose.
In the case of Cohens v. Virginia, it is said,
that " when the constitution declares the jurisdiction, in-cases where a State shall be a party, to be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

759

original, and in all cases arising under the consti- 1824.
tution or a law, to be. appellate, the conclusion Osborn
v.
seems irresistible, that its framers designed to inS.
Booik.
U.
elude in the first.class, those cases in which jurisdiction is given, because a State is a party ; and to
include in the second, those in which jurisdiction
is given, because the case arises under the constitution, or a law."'

It is allowed, that "it may be conceded, that
where the case is of such a nature as to admit of
its originating in the Supreme" Court, it ought to
originate there ;,,b though it be immediately after-

wards asked, "can it be affirmed that a State might
not sue a citizen of another State in the Circuit
Court ?",

From the whole, this final conclusion

is deduced: "The original jurisdicti6n of the Supreme Court, in cases where a State is a party,
refers to those cases in which, according to the
grant of power made in the preceding clause, jurisdiction might be exercised, in consequence of
the character of the party; and an. ori inal suit
might be instituted in any of the Federal.Courts,
not to those cases in which an original suit might
not be instituted in a Federal Court."
The result of' this reasoning seems to ,be, that
where the jurisdiction of the Federal .Court attaches, in consequence of the character of the party, in
that case, no original suit can be brought. against a
State, except in the Supreme Court. But if a
a 6 Wheat. Rp . s9s.
& Id. 895.
c Id. 396.

760

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

V.

State become liable to an action, in a case arising
Sunder the constitution, or a law of the United
States, then any of the Federal Courts may enter-

tain jurisdiction.
We .cannot think, that the Court meant to assert this position ; or that if they did, they will ad.herd to it. No good reason can be perceived, for
sustaining a distinction of this kind. The policy
which exempts the States from the jurisdiction of
inferior Courts, is the same in both cases; and the
terms of the constitution comprehend the oiqe class
of cases as well as the other. The words, "all
cases," embrace as fully a case against a State, arising under the constitution, or a law, as thwy do a
case between two States, or between a State and
a foreign State. The same terms are uwed in defining the-extent of the judicial power in the first
class of cases described, and the Court thus speak
of their effect: "This clause extends the jurisdiction of the Court.toall .the cases described, without
making in its terms ady exception whatever, and
without any regard o the condition of the party.
If there be any exception, it is to be implied against,
the .express words of the article." The same may
be'said,. with equal force, oft the terms) when employed tedefine the originaljurisdiction of the Su,
preme Court. - The true reading and understnD
ing are, "in all cases affecting ambassadors, -other
public ministers,- and consuls, and in all those in
which a State shall be u party, the Supreme Court
shall ha've original jurisdiction." If there be any
exception, by which a State can be sued in an orgi14 suit before an inferior federal tribunal. such

OF THE UNITED STATES.

exception must be implied against the express
words of the article, and can only be sustained
"upon the spirit and true meaning of"the constitu-

1824.
Osborn

V.

tion ; which spirit and true meaning must be so U.S. Bank.

apparent, as to overrule the words which its framers have employed."
There is no difficulty in giving full force and effect to the constitutional distribution of jurisdiction, as we interpret it, without touching the appellate jurisdiction asserted in the case of Cohens
v. Virginia. By that case, it is settled, that the
judicial power of the United States extends to a
class of cases which cannot originate in any federal tribunal, and that this jurisdiction must, of necessity, be appellate. The distribution of jurisdiction must be interpreted as if the judicial power
was extended, by the letter of the constitution, to
this class of cases, in express terms. The first
member *of the sentence must be understood as
applicable only to cases in which original jurisdiction is vested in the federal judiciary. The second, to every description of appellate jurisdiction,
whether it arise under the constitution, or be created by law. Thus, if a case arise under the constitution, or a law of the Union, in which an original suit may be sued against a State, the constitution requires'sueh suit to he brought in the Supreme Court. If a State be plaintiff or defendant
in a State Court, and a question arise under the
constitution, or a law of the Union, and a case be
made at the trial, upon which the federal judicial
power attaches, the constitution authorizes the
Supreme Court to exercise appellate jurisdiction.
VOL. IM.

96

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

762
1M4

There is no occasion to confound the two classes
cases, or to bring the two -kinds of jurisdiction
V'.
into colffision. The -appellate jurisdiction of the
Ti. Bk. Suprenre Court may, consistently, be extended to
the proper class of cases whpre a State is a party,
witbout so interpreting the constitution, as to subje~t the States to original.actions in the inferior
national tribunals.
But whatzever may be the correct interpretation
of the constitution upon this point, it has long been
settled, *thatthe Circuit Courts can exercise no jurisdiction but what is conferred upon them by law.
The judiciary act does not.vest them with jurisdic.lion where aState is a party. On the contrary,
in a case like the preseqt, it vests exclusive jurisdiction
in the Supreme Court.
. The judiciary
act of 1789, c. 20. sec. 1., provides, that "the Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nolure, where a State is a party; excopt betwebn a
State and its citizens, and except also between a
State and citizens of other States, or aliens; in
which latter case, it shail have original, but not
exclusive jurisdiction." This act, which distributes and defines the jurisdiction of the different
federal Courts, does not, in terms, vest the Circuit
Court with jurisdiction in anycase arisingunder the
constitution or thelaws of the United States. 'And

'of
O3bom

in

'Inlire v.. Wood,a this Court decided, that this

portion of federal jurisdiction could not beexercised by the Circuit Courits, unless expressly confer07

Cranch, AM5

OF THE UNITED STATES.

red by law. Neither does this act give jurisdiction 1824.
to theCircuitCourt, in any case where a State is a Osbam
V.
party; but, on the contrary, all original jurisdiction that is given to the federal judiciary, where a U.S.BakState is a party, is vested in the Suprerhe Court,
and, with certain exceptions, in that Court exclusively. The case before the Court comes not
within any of the exceptions ; so that, if it be a
case of federal jurisprudence, it is exclusively vested in the Supreme Court.
Should it be conceded, that the State cannot be
sued in the Circuit Court, and an attempt made to
sustain the case and the jurisdiction against the
individuals, upon the ground of necessity, lest there
should be a failure of justice, it may be answered:
First, that the -reasons Which exempt the State
from direct rpsponsibility, operate at least equally
strong t6 exempt her from indirect responsibility.
No necessity can warrant a judicial tribunal in
disregarding the maxim, that that which cannot
legally be directly done, cannot rightfully be effectedby indirection.
A second, and a more decisive answer, may be
given : the supposed necessity. does not exist.
The case arises under the constitution and the
charter. A suit direct against the States, may be
prosecuted in the federal Courts.- The constitution has made the State amenable to justice before the Supreme Court of the nation. The national Legislature have provided that this jurisdiction shall be exclusive. It cannot be defeated or
evaded by the selection of improper parties, in subversion of eitablished practice, and of correct and

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

well settled principles. The bill might have been
in the Supreme Court; the injunction might
V. have been allowed by a Judge of that Court in va.s.B3ank. cation ; the whole case might have beqen proceeded in as the framers of the constitution intended.
The high and solemn measure of citing a sovereign
State before a Court of judicature, to- defend its
attributes of stvereignty,-and the exercise of its
power, ought not to be permitted to 'any authority
but the highest tribunal of the nation I say nothing of consequences; I look only to what is fit
and prbper in itself, adapted to the nature of man,
to the organization of goveinment, and consistent
with the plain, letter of the constitution.
If this were not the case, itthe constitution had
conferred jurisdiction, but Congress had omitted
to make provision for exercising it by the Supreme
Court, in an original form, still no necessity can
justifyan evasive assumption of it by any tribunal,
much less by one to which the constitution never
intended to intrust it. The 'Bank mubt take the
con'sequences, as in the case of other men whc,
transact business, where Congress have failed to
make provision for vesting in the Courts all'the
jurisdiction conferred by the constitution.
In the case of .,'
Intire v." Wood,"before cited,
this Court said, "When questions arise under the
constitutiQn of the United States, in the State
Courts, and the paify who claims a right or privilege under them is unsuccessful, an appeal is
given to the Supreme Court; and tiis provision
the Legislature has thought sufficient, at present,
for all the political purposes t6 be answered by
1824.

'filed
Osborn

OP THE UNITED STATES.

765

the clause of the constitution which relates to the 1824.
subject." It must remain sufficient until the law O
V.
is changed, whatever inconvenience may result to
U.S.Bank.
individuals.
If, then, the case made in the bill be, in fac,
a case against the State, in which the State is the
sole party interested, and the defendants only ministerial agents, then the decree is erroneous,
(1.) because the proper parties are not before the
Court; (2.) because the Circuit Court cannot,
under either the constitution or laws of Congress,
exercise jurisdiction over the proper party; (3.)
because both the constitution and law vests exclusive jurisdiction of the case made-in the Supreme
Court.
7. The last and the most important point in the
case remains yet to be considered. It is, that the
-decree assumes that the Bank of the United States
is not subject to the taxing power of tlfe State of
Ohio, and decides that the law of Ohio, the execution of which is enjoined, is unconstitutional.
Upon this point, we ask the Court to reconsider
so much of their opinion in the case of A'Culloch
v. Maryland, as decides that the States have no
rightful power to tax the Bank of the United
States.
The question, whether the Bank of the United
States, as now constituted, is exempt, by the constitution of the Union, from the taxing power of
the State, depends upon the nature and character of the institution. If it stands upon the same
foundation with the mint and the post office; if its
business can justly be assimilated to the process

M6

,CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. and proceedings of the federal Courts, we admit,
Swithout
hesitation, that it is entitled to the exDOsborn
-r emption it claims. The States cannot tax the ofV.'.Snk. fices, establishments, and" operations, of the national government. It is not the argument of the
opinion, in M'Cullock v. Maryftand, but the premises upon which that argument is founded, thatwe ask the Court now to re-examine and reconsider.
Banking is, in its nature, a private trade; and
is a business in which individuals may tit all timesengage, unless the municipal law forbid it. Where
this is not the case, it is'bompetent for individuals
to contract.together, and create capital to be.employed in lending money, and buying and sellinig
coins, bullion, promissory notes, and bills of exchange. No law is necessary to authorize a contract between individuals'for concentrating capital
to be thus employed; nor does the business itself
depend upon any special laws for its creation or'
existence. An association thus formed, may take
to themselves a name, and may esthblish rules and
regulations to govern them in the transaction of
their business, and to determine their" relative
rights and duties among themselves. The general
law not only recognises the obligation of this contract between the parties; it recognises also the
capacity of the aisociation thus formed, to make
cobtracts in the name they have asspmed, and the
right of the individuals, as joint partners, or one
party, to enforce those contracts. The whole -is
a private doncerb : the capital is private property;
the business a private- and indivialual trade; 'the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

convenience and profit of private men the end and 1824.
object. Such is the true character of a bank, con- Osborn
stituted by individual stockholders. Its rights and
v.
U.S.Bank.
all
are
disabilities,
and
privileges, its liabilities
the rights, privileges, liabilities, and disabilities of
private persons.
. If the individuals thus associated apply for and
obtain, from the legislative power of the country,
a special law, creating them a corporation, what
change does it effect. in their condition? A better
answer cannot be given, than that contained in the
definition of a corporation by this Court: "A corporation is an artificial being, invisible, intangible,
and existing only in contemplation of law. , Being
the mere creature of law, it pbssesses only those
properties which the charter of its creation confers upon it, either expressly, or as incidental to
its existehce. These are such as are supposed best
calculated to effect the object for which'it was created. Among the most important are immortality,
and, if the expression maybe allowed, individuality;
properties by which a perpetual succession of
many persons are considered as the same, and may
actas a -ingle individual. They enable a corporation to manage its own uffairs, and to hold property, without the perplexing intrica:ies, the hazardous and endless ,ecessity of perpetual conveyances, for the purpose of transmitting it from
hand to hand. It is chiefly for the purpose of
clothing bodies of men with these qualities and
capacities, that corporationswere invented and
are -inu use.",
a Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. &p. 634.

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

If the character of a corporation, as here de'
fined
.
P be regarded in granting a charter to a bankv.
ing company in the case stated, the change efu. S. -,nk. fected in the condition of a company by the charter, .can be easily and readily comprehended. It
relates to their character, not to their rights. It
would not change the nature of their business, but
would afford facility in transacting it. It would
confer upon the whole one individual Oaracter,
comprising, for particular purposes, the capacities
of an individual ; but it would exempt them from
liabilities, only so far as an express exemption was
stipulated or granted. By the charter, they would
be constituted an invisible, intangible, and artificial .being, capable of perpetual existexice, and
of acting as an individual in the management of
their appropriate affairs. But this would operate
only to change the form, it would not alter the
substance of things. These would still consist of
the individuals that composed the association, and
of the,business in which they were engaged.
This was distinctly decided in the case of the
United States Bank v. Deveauz.* In that case
it was contended, that the character of the individuals was completely.merged in the charter of
incorporation. But this Court adjudged otherwise; they determined that they could look behind
the charter, and *notice the character of individuals;- and the cases and the principles upon
which this decision is founded, also establish. that
Or
Osborn

a 5 Crandc,

84.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Courts may look beyond the charier for all sub- 1824.
Osbor
stantial and beneficial purposes.
v.
When individuals, associated to carry on the
Banj..
S.
U*
the
of
Legislature
trade of banking, apply to the
country for an act of incorporation, they found
their application upon some benefit to be derived
to the public from conferring upon them the character they ask. This public benefit may consist
of the facilities afforded to the State, in the management of its fiscal concerns; or it may consist
in the convenience to the community in the transaction of mercantile and other money affairs. It
may arise from-the payment of annual revenue, or
a stipulated sum, into the public treasury. If thd
benefit to the public be considered a sufficient compensation for the faculty couferred, the corporatioft
is created. But from this fact, in the language of
thisCourt, "nothingcan be inferred which changep
the character of the institution, or transfers to
the government any new power over it. The character of civil institutions does not grow out of
their incorporation, but out of the manner in which
they'are formed, and- the objects for which they
are created."' a
If, then, a banking association be formed, the
capital colleLzed, the mode of transacting the business settled, and the whole concern regulated and
established, before any application be made for a
charter, it is clear that the mere fact of enacting a
law, creating the association a corporation, could
not change its character. It was a company of
a Dartmouth College v. Woodward,
VoL. IX.
97

4

lMet. Rep. 638.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

individuals, conducting a private tfade,.before it
was incorporated, and it retained the sarhe characOsborn
V. ter afterwards. The clharter was granted to give
V.S.Benk. facility to the individuals in the management
of
their private affairs; not that, in virtue of that
eharter,'they might share in the civil government
'of the country. For special purposes, it qonstituted them an immortal being; but of this being it
has been correctly said, that "its immortality no
more 'confers on it political powe', or a political
character, than immortality wQuld confer such
poVer or character on a natural perm~n, '
If in fact the incorporation be obtained before
the association i3s formed, does it vary the principle ?' It is supposed and insisted that it does not.
If the corporation be originated for the management of an individual concern ; if it be based upon
contract between individuals; if its great end and
principal object be private trade and private profit, its character must be the sant, whether the
trade commenced precedent or subsequent to the
incorporation; whether the individuals solicited
the charter, or- the Legislature invited the individuals. The character of the association must be
ascertained by the same rules, and it must be subject to the same legal consequences.
We may suppose, then, that individuals resident in every part of the Union, and in foreign
countries, have associated for the p.rpose of establishing a bank, with a capital of 28,000,000 of
dollars; that they have actually collected this caa 4 W eat. Re. 656.

OF THE UNITE

STATES.

pital together in the city of Thiladelphia, and, no 1824.
law prohibiting such 'a measure, have commenced Osbor
V.
trading as bankers. Not finding sufficient em.
U.S.Ba
estabthey
place,
that
at
ployment for their capital
lish a banking house in New-York, one in Boston,
and one in Baltimore, where they carry on a profitable business. It is perfectly clear, that all this
may be done,-if no State law be contravened, by
individuals- in their natural capacities. But it is
equally clear, that the capital thus employed, and
the business thus transacted, must be subject to
the regulations of the respective States, and that
the parties must be subject to all the inconveniences
and embarrassments resulting from the death
of its members; and from the-transfers of its shares
and interests ; from the perplexing intricacies, the
hazardous and endless necessity of perpetual conveyances for transferring their property, as well as
the still greater inconvenience of pursuing its rights
and enforcing its contracts in Cburts of justice.
Deriving great advantage from its tradd, anxious
to extend it into other .States, and to be relieved
from the embarrassments incident to a joint stock
company not incorporated, the corporation apply to
the Cpngress of the United States for an act of incorporation.- But this Congress cannot confer, unless the association can be employed by the national government in the execution of some of the
powers with which it is invested by the constitution.
All the powers of the government must be carried
into operation by individual agency, either throv~gh
the medium of public officers, or contracts made
with individuals. Can ahy public office be created,

( AES IN THL SLP:REME COURT

or does one exist, the performance of which may,
with propriety, be assigned to this association,
V. when incorporated? If such office exist, or can be
U.S.Bank. created, then the company may be incorporated,
that they may be appoitited to execute such office.
Is there any portion of the public business performed by individuals upon contracts, that this association could be employed to perform, with
greater advantage and Iore safety to the public,
than an individual contractor? If there be an
employment of this nature, then may this company
be incorporated to undertake it.
There is an employment of this nature. Nothing
can be more essential to the fiscal concerns of the
ziation, than an agent of undoubted integrity and
established credit, with whom the public moneys
can, at all times, be safe]y deposited. Nothing
can be of more importance to a government, than
that there should be some capitalist in the country, who possesses the means of making advances
of money to the government upon any exigency,
and who is under a legal obligation to make such
advances. For these purposes the association
would be an agent peculiarly suitable and appropriate. Ther are also other minor employments,
such as the transmission of the revenue from.one
place to inother, for the performance of which
1824.

Osborn

this company would be a most safe and certain

agent. As, then, this association may be thus connected with the public interest, and made usefal
and advantageous to the government, by conferring a charter upon them', the power of securing
to the nation these benefits, advantages, and con-

0;? THE UNITED STATES.

77[3

vemences, results to the National Legislature. A 1824.
.b'a
just construction of their constitutional powers,
invests them with authority to incorporate a bankv.
Bank.
S.
U.
with
contracting
of
basis
the
upon
company,
ing
the institution thus created, for the performance
of certain public employments, beneficial to the
nation, and necessary to be performed by some
one.
The mere creation-of a corporation, does not
confer political power or political character. So
this Court decided in DartmouthCollege v. Wood.
ward, already referred to. If I may be allowed
to paraphrase the language of the Chief Justice, I
would say, a bank incorporated, is no more a State
instrument, than a natural person performing the
same business would be. If, then, a natiral person, engaged in the trade of banking, should contract with the government to receive the public
money upon deposit, to transmit it from place to
place, without charging for commission or difference of exchange, and to perform, when called
upon, the duties of commissioner of loans, would
not thereby become a public office'r, how is it that
this artificial being, created by law for the purpose
of being employed by the government for the same
purposes, should. become a part of the civil government of the country ? Is it because its existence, its~capacities, its powers, are given by law ?
because the government has given it power to
take and hold property in a particular form, and
to employ that property for particular 'purposes,
and in the disposition of it to use a particular
name ? because the government has sold it a pri-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

V.
U. S. Bank.

vilege for a large sum of money, and has bargained with it to do certain things; is it, therefore, a
part of the very government with which the contract is made ?
If the Bank be constituted a public office, by the
connexion between it and the government, it cannot be the mere legal franchise in which the 6ffice
is vested ; the individual stockholders must be the
officers. Their character is not merged in the
charter. This is the strong point of the ,layor
and Commonalty v. 'Wood, upon whiah this
Court ground their decision in the Bank v. Deveaux, and from which they say, that cause could
not be distinguished. Thus, aliens may become
public officers, and public duties are confided to
those who owe no allegi: nee to the government,
and who are even beyond its territorial limits.
With the privileges and perquisites of office, all
individuals holding offices, ought to be subject to
the -disabilities of office. But if the Ba'nk be a
public office, and the individual stockholders public officers, this principle does not have a fair and
just operation. The disabilities of office do not
attach to the stockholders; for we find them every
where holding public offices, even in the national
Legislature, from which, if they be public officers,
they are excluded by the constitution in express
terms.
If thu,-Bank be a public institution of such character as to be justly assimilated to the mint and
the post office, then its charter may be amended,
altered, or even abolished, at the discretion of the
National Legislature. All public offices are crea-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tad purely for public *purposes, and may, at any 1824.
times be modified in sich manner as the public in- Osborn
tarest may require. Public corporations partake
Y.
cf the same character. So it is distinctly ad- u.s. 3'U.
j idged in Dartmouth College v. Woodward. In
t ispoint, each Judge who delivered an opinion,
concurred. By one of the Judges it is said,
t iat "public corporations are generally esteemed
s ich as exist for public political purposes only,
s ich as towns, -cities, parishes -and counties; and
ii many respects they are so, although they in,i ive some private interests; but, strictly speaking,
] ublic corporations .are such only as are founded
1 y the, government for public purposes, where the
,
hole interest belongs also to the government.
] therefore, the foundation be 'private, though
Inder the charter of the 'government, the corpoiition is private, however extensive the uses may
I E to which it is devoted, either by the bounty of
I ie founder, or the nature and objects of thb instiI ition. For instafice, a bank, created by the go, 3rnment for its own uses, whose stock is excluvely owned by tlie government, is, in the strictest
S;nse, a public corporation. So, a hospital created
i id endowed by the government for general cha"
ty. But a bank, whose stock is owned by pride persons, is a privatecqrporation,although it
erected by the government, and its oZjects and
operations partake of a public nature. The
same doctrine may be affirmed of insurance, canal,
bridge, and turnpike companies. In all these
Deses, the uses may, in a certain sense, be called
oublic, but the corporations are private; as much

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. so, indeed, as if the franchises were vested in a
-.€V / single person. '
0:,born
,.
If the Court adopt this reasoning of one of
.S. Bank. themselves, the point is decided. The act of incorporation, in the case supposed, does neither
create a public office, nor a public corporation.
The association, notwithstanding their charter,
remain a private association, the proprietors and
conductors of a private trade, bound by contract,
for a consideration paid, to perform certain employments for the government.
The qualities and capacities which are ordinarily conferred upon a private corporation, have already been stated. These Congress must have
power to confer, for they cannot create a corporation, unless they can confer the qualities and capacities requisite to its constitution. It must be
remembered, that this power in the National Legislature, to create a private corporation, is not v
general, but a special power, limited to caseE
where. the corporation, when created, may be ena.
ployed by the government as an appropriate ageni
in the transaction of public affairs. It is not es.
sential to the creation or existence of a corporation, that any uncommon or extraordinary privilege
or exemption should be confetred upon it. It is
therefore, beyond question, that the admitted powei
of creating, in its strict and proper sense, does noi
incIude or imply a power to exercise discretion it
conferring privileges. If this be attempted, it if

d 4 Wheat. Rep. 668.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

77"

open for inquiry, whether such privildge'be.com- 1824.
osbam
patible with the constitution.
Osbom
Before the act of incorporation, the association,
V.
S.Bank.
U.
the
Eo
subject
necessarily
was
supposed,
have
we
law of the State in which it transacted business;
that law, whatever it might be, entered into and
operated upon all their contracts. By that law,
their property was protected, and for that protection the property was subject to equal rateable
taxation. The ordinary qualities and capacities
conferred upon a corporation, would not place the
protection of the property under a different law,
nor exempt it from bearing its proportion of legal
buithens. To effect this, an extraordinary provision must be inserted in the charter. This kind
of immunity is not incident to a corporation; the
power to create one does not include the power to
confer.such immunity upon it. It is not essential
to, its creation Or existence, and is not, therefore,
within the sphere of national legislation.
' A Stateis invested'with constitutional power
to
levy a tax upon stamps, and may extend its operation to all the- dealings of individuals. It cannot subject the transactions of the national goveenment to the payment of such iax, because the
operations of that government are national, and
not subject to the power of any of its parts. If
the nation borrow money, it is competent for the
nation to decide upon the evidence to be given of
the debt. It would be absurd to subject this national measure to the municipal regulations of one
of its parts, and thus permit a part to assess a tax
upon the whole. But if the national goverriment
VoL. IX.

98

CASO$IN T44 SUPREW4

COURT

incorporate a company .of-private bankere, wbo,
Osbo= Sbefore they received -their charter, wero subjoot
v.
to the payment of this tax, their- subsequent ex8U.0.
Bank. enuption from it would .not deem to be a necessary
coniequeace,, unless they were constituted a publie institution. If they remained mere private
dealers, with only increasad facilitiesT and a new
faculty conferred upon them, it would seem 'a rational -inference, that their private duties and liabilities also remained. Supposing them to remain a
private corporation of trade, the tax collected from
them would be abstracted, not from the national
treasury, .but frbm the pockets of private men.
The supposition, that this tax is incompatible with
the capacity to trade, conferred in the charter, proceeds upon the hypothesis, that that capacity partakes ofthe character of the government that confors it, and is, therefore, supreme. Unquestionably
such would be the fact, if the Bank were a public
corporation ; if it were created by the governknent
for its own uses; and if the stock were exclusively
owned by the government. But if it remain a
private corporation, then th.e capacity given in the
charter ought to be regarded as that which is adapted to the chaiacter of the party receiving it: a
capacity properly appertaining to private individuals, which necessarily imports, that it is to be
enjoyed like other individual rights, subject to
the municipal law.
A stamp duty is one mode of collecting revenue
from individuals engaged in private trade, but it
is not the only mode. The principle which exempts the Bank of the United States from the
1824.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

779

payment of a stamp duty imposed by a State, is 1824.
supposed to exempt it from the payment of any "'I
Osbom
tax assessbd by State authority. It is deemed an
v.
incident attached to the charter, because that char- U. S. Bank.
ter is conferred- by the supreme authority. It is
said, that if any other than the supreme authority
that -confers the faculty, is permitted to tax the
trade or business to -be carried on under it, the
faculty itself may be rendered useless, and -the
object of granting it entirely defeated. The power
to confer the faculty, and the power to tax the
business, if vested in different hands, are thus
held to be incompatible, and from this incompatibility the exemption is deemed a necessary incident to the charter, because, without it, it cannot
exist. For we must here repeat, that this Court
have said, that a corporation "possesses only those
properties which the charter of its creation confers upon it, either expressly, or as incidental to
'"
its very estece.
This position involves several inquiries, which
may be embraced in an examination of the reasons assigned for-considering this exemption as an
incident attached to the charter, and in an investigation of the powers of Congress to confer this
exemption, in express terms, if it cannot be sustained as incidental to the very existence of the
Bank.
The fact, that a private corporation, created by
the sovereign or supreme power, is not, therefore,
clothed with any portion of the political character
a 4

Wheat. Rep. 686.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

or political power of its creator, is asserted by the
opinions of the Judges of this Court,
Osborn Sconourring
V. and is established by its judgment in the case of
.S.Bank. Dartmouth College v, Woodward. That an exemption from taxatiQn for public purposes, by an
inferior legislative power, is not incident.to a corporation created by the supreme power, is a just
inference from the doctrines laid down in the case
just cited, and from the whole history of private
corporations, down to the dpoision of this Court in
I' Culloch v. Maryland.
The power of assessing taxes is always a legislative. power; bitin our government, and in that
of England, ,from which many of our institutions,
and most of our principles ' of jurisprudence are
derived, this power is exercised by other authorities thai the National and 'State Legislatures.
Counties, cities, towns, boroughs, and townships,
have bodies of magistracy authorized to assess
taxes for various specific purposes. We havb the
high authority of Lord Coke himself, that the
Justices of a city, shire, or riding, in England;
might assess a tax upon the property of a'.corporation: for the repair of bridges." And in The
King V. Gardner,b it was decided by the Court
of King's Bench, that a corporation was subject
to -be asseshedfor poor rates, even as a' corporation. In these cases, it was not pretended that
exemption from taxation was an incident to the
corporation.
a 2 Inst. 697. 700.
h Cowp. 83.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Ifa State Legislature incorporate a company 1824.
to construct a turnpike road, such charter would Osborn
be predicated upon the advantage the community
V.
would derive from the road; yet no man would U. S. Bank.
suppose that the horses, cattle, carriages, and other
implements employed and used by the company,
would be exempt from county levies, poor rates,
and other burthens to which the other property of
the individuals was subject. And if a general tax
upon business or ipcome was assessed, it would
'not be pretended that the amount received for tolls
would be exempt from this tax, upon the ground
that a right to have the corporate property and corporate business exempt from taxation, was an incident of the charter. This argument is applicable to every species of individual business conducted by private corporations. If exemption
from any particular tax be claimed, it is founded
upon a privilege specifically granted in the charter, it is not claimed as an incident to the grant.
It is not uncommon, that almost every species of
business carried on within the boundaries of a
city, is subject to be taxed by the city magistracy,
for "ity purposes. Should this general authority
to tax, extend to bankers, money-lenders, brokers,
and others trading in money, notes, stocks, bills of
exchange, &c., would the mere fact, that the sovereign authority granted to the individual or individuals carrying on any dne of these employments,
a corporate character, operate to exempt such individual or individuals from the payment of a city
tax, to- which he was liable before the corporate
character was bestowed upon -him ?

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

Private corporations, emanating from State authority, and ultimately connected with the private
V. and public welfare, are numerous in all our comU.S.Bank. mercial cities.. Such are fire and marine insuraneo
companies. Are these regarded as exempt from
taxes assessed by the city magistrateb ? Have they
ever claimed such exemption ? Has it ever been
conceded to them ? In all the cases put, it.
is evident, that the body of inferior magistracy, authorized to levy a tax, if they be not limited as to the
amount, which is frequently not the case, may assess upon the corporation an amount which their
business could not pay, and thus defeat the object
for which the charter was obtained. That such
exemption, as an incident of their charter, has never been claimed by such corporations, is strong
proof that it was not supposed to exist.
It may be said, that the inferior magistracy and
the corporations, in the cases supposed, both derive their authority from the same source, and that
it is competent for the authority that created both,
so to regulate and control their operations, as to
prevent one from being destroyed by the other.
This may be granted, without affecting the argument. If the exemption be incident to the co'poration, regulations are unnecessary. The power
of the national Legislature to confer this exemption, upon a corporation created by it, in express
terms, is one thing. That it exists as an incident
to the charter, without any express provision, is a
very different proposition.
It is distinctly admitted, in the case of .'Cullock v. Maryland, that the real property of the
" Osborn

OF THE UNITEI STATES.

Bank may be taxed, and that the stock held by re- 1824.
sidents of the State maybe taxed. But it is as- 03bom
V.
sorted, that the operations of the Bank are exUS.Bank.
empt, because they are the'means of the national
government; and it.is only by the total exemption of the operations ofthe Bank from the taxing
power of the States, that our institutions can be
relieved from the absurdity of a pover, in one government, to pull down what another may build
up, and a right in one government to destroy what
there is a right in another to preserve.
But if the real property of the Bank and its
stock may be taxed, it is as completely within the
power of the States to destroy it by taxation, as it
is by taxing its operations. The States may tax
tlgstock owned by its- citizens, so high as to compel them to retain it.at aloss. Every State in the
Union, by adopting this course, may paralize the
operatipns of the Bank, as effectually as in any
other mode. If the States act in concert, there is
an end of the Bank; and that wihich the national
government have built up, iti prostrated by the
States. The concession, then, that the exemption -is qualified, admits the very mischief which it
is set upto prevent. Whatever misapprehension
may have prevailed with respe.ct to the operations
of the Bank, it certainly never can be asserted, that
the individual stock of the members, or the real
etate. of the. company, are the means of the governnent, and, as such, exemptfrom taxation.- And
while these: are subject to taxation by the States,
it would seem difficult to sustain the pqsition upon

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

which the operations of the Bank are held to be
Sexempt.

.1
U.s.Bank.

We can well understand, how an absolute ex-

emption may be a consequence of the character of
the corporation established. Certainly it would
be an incident of this Bank, were it established
solely for public use, and were the stock wholly owned by the nation. But a qualified exemption must, in its very nature, depend upon specific
provision. It is so connected with considerations
of policy, and interwoven with the exercise of discretion, that it cannot be conceived, how it is to
exist otherwise than by special creation or enactment.
No such exemption, either general or qualified,
has heretofore been regarded as an incident to the
creation of a private corporation. On the contrary, every corporate privilege beyond the creation
of individuality of character and of capacity, has
been founded upon special grant. In the case of
Head v. the Providence Insurance Company,"
this Court declared, that a private company, "in
its corporate capacity, is the mere creature of the
act to which it owes its existence. It may correctly be said, to be precisely what the incorporating act has made it, and to be capable of exerting
its faculties only in the manner in which that ae
authorizes." And this principle has been recognised in every case where the rights, privileges
and powers of a corporation have been considered, except in respect to the Bank.
a 2 Cranch,167.

"OF TH" UNITED STATES.

785

If we examine the claim of this particular corpo- 1824.
Tatiorr, to attach to itself this exemption, as ineident to its charter, upon what ground is it to be
S. Bank.
distinguished from private corporations generally ? U.
It is said, that it is an instrument employed by the
national government ii the execution of its powers,
and-for that reason cannot'be taxed; that, in this
particular, it is distinguishable from all other corporations.
In what sense is it an instrument of the government? and in what character is it employed as
such ? Do the government employ the faculty
the legal franchise, or do they employ the individuals upon whoni it is conferred ? and what is the
iiature of that employment ? does it resemble the
post office, or the mint, or the custom house, or the
process of the federal Courts ?
The post office is established by the general
government. It is a public institution. The persons who perform its duties are public officers. No
individual has, or can acquire, any property in it.
For all the Services performed, a compensation is
paid out of the- national treasury; and all the money received upon account of its operations, is pubtic property. Surely there is no similitude between this institution, and an association whoctrade
upon their own capital, for their own profit, and
who have paid the government a million and.a
half of dollars for. a legal character and name, in
which to conduct their trade.
Again: the business conducted through the
agency of the post office, is not in its nature a private business. It is of a public character, and-the
Von. IX.

99

786
1824.

CASES IN"THt SUPREME .COUtT

charge of it is expressly conferred upon 0ongress
' Osborn
by the constitution. The business is created by
V. S law, and is annihilated 'When the law is repealed.
U1. S. Bank.
ut the trade of banking is strictly a private concern. It exists ant] can be carried on without the
aid of the niLionul Legislature. Nay, it is only
under very special c.irnstances, that the national
Legislature can so far interfere with it, as to facilitate its operations.
The post office executes the various duties assigned to it, by ineans of subordinate agents. The
mails are opened and closed by persons inves;ed
with the character of public officers.- But they are
transported by individuals employed for that purpose, in their individual character, which employment is created by and founded in contract. To
such contractors no official character is attached.
These contractors supply horses, carriages, and
whatever else is necessary for the transportation
of the mails, upon their own account. The whole
is engaged in the public service. The contractor,
his horses, his carriage, his driver, are all in public employ. But this does not change their character. All that was'private property before the
contract was made, tand before they wore engaged
in public employ, remain private property still.
The horses and the cairiages are liable to be. taxed as other property, for every purpose for which
property of the same character is taied in the place
where they are employed. The reason is plain :
the contractor is employing his own meaps to promote his own private profit, and the tax coilvoted
to from the individual, though asseseed upon the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

787

means he uses to perform the public service. To 1824.
tax the transportation of the mails, as such,
would Osbom
be taxing the operations of the government, which
v.
could not be allowed. But to tax the means by U. S. Baak.
which this transportation is effected, so far as those
means are private property, is allowable; because
it abstracts nothing from the government; and because, the fact that an individual employs his private means in the service of the government, attaches to them no immunity whatever.
It is only in this character, that the Bank is in
public employ. The business it transacts for the
government, originates, in contract. It receives
the public treasure upon deposit, and pays it out
upon the checks of the proper officer. This is an
individual business, transacted for the government
precisely as. if it were an individual concern. It receives the cash of individuals upon deposit in the
same manner, and in the same manner pays it out.
It is one department of its trade, by which it makes
individual profit. Any private person, or moneyed
corporation, may be employed to do the same
thing ; and as to that, would be in the employment
of the government; would be an instrument used
by the government: a means of executing its
powers. Yet it has never been, supposed, that
such employment constituted a public office, or
that the person employed was thereby invested
with official character. All these contracts are
made with a view to the profitable employment of
individual exertion, and are performed by individual means, in the private personal eharacter of
the contractor. They are, of course, subjeot t

7W8f

CASES IN .THE SUPREME COURT

Th24 the municipal law; by it they must be protecte
-Osbora and enforced, and, therefore, cannot be exeml
from its exactions.
rj
UJ S.Bank.
The carriages and horses of the contractor fc
transporting the mail, is a stronger case than th
of the Bank. The transportation of the mail
ihe principal object for which the team and veh
cle are engaged ; the business of carrying passex
ge's and baggage, is merely incidental. Publ
service is the first great object; its employmei
4ska means of travelling, by individuals, is but si
condary. But in the case of the Bank, the pr
vate trade of the company is the great object,
pursuit, and the end of their exertions; the pul
lie business is subordinate and incidental, and i
in reality, a very essential means of promotir
that private gain, which is the principal, if nlot tl
sole object of the corporation.
. Again-In the case of the mail, .the contract
receives a stipulated sum, as a compensation f
his services. He takes upon himself a burthe
some and hazardous employment. But the Ban
on the contrary, receive a privilege, a substanti
pecuniary advantage, resulting necessarily in t]
augmentation of the private individual wealth
the stockholders; of this advantage they are t]
purcbers, not for the public account, but for pi
vate use.
The post office, as such, that is, the mere leg
entity created by the law, cannot be taxed, becau
it iaa public institution. The moneys recciv4
for postage cannot be taxed, because they are pu
lie property, This immunitymtaches.to their pu

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lie character. But the building in which the post 1824.
office is kept, is a proper subject of taxation, be- Osborn
V.
cause it isprivate property ; and the fact, that it
S.Bank.
U.
governthe
by
employed
or
used
is an instrument
ment, in the execution of its powers, attaches to it
no immunity.
The mint, the custom house, the process of the
federal Courts, bear still less analogy to the Bank
than the post office. They partake less of the
character of private business. The functions they
perform are more palpably of a public nature, requiring the personal agency of individuals, rather
than the employment of private property in their
performance; especially the papers of the custoin
house, and the proceedings of the federal Courtsr.
However much individuals may be interested in
the existence and preservation of these documents;
yet they are not, in their nature, subjects in which
a right of property can be acquired. If it ever
could have been- supposed that these were sobject
of taxation by the States, the "arguihent of-the
-pinion in the case of .f"Culloc v..Afarylaotd,
denonstrates the absurdity of such supposition.
Because to alithese ibstitutions exemption frorn
State taxation is attached, as an incident essential
to theirvery existenne, it does notfollow that the
same exemption.attaches to the Bank, unless its
character, end, and object, are the same. It seems
to us imposible.that. this can'be maintained. If
it cannot, what. is there peculiar to the- constRittion of-this corporation, that should attach tq its
.charter an exemption. not-incident t6 other corporations? Surely some foulcTation for this very ex-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

traordinary character, unknown to other establishments of the same nature, ought to be made out
Osborn
v.
by those who claim it.
U.S. Bank.
I am aware, that an indefinite, indistinct, confused idea exists, by which the charter, and the
private trade, and the stockholders, and the government, are combined togetber, and the whole
made to produce a something which cannot well
be defined, but which is called a public institution.
This might produce some legal effect, if we were
compelled to contemplate this something only as a
cteation of the national government, by the name
of the Bank of the United States. If its legal
envelope, and legal name, constituted its whole
character, or if these could be used so as to shut
out all further inquiry into-that character, its clainA
-to the incidents and immunities of a public institution might rest upon some sort of: foundation.
But :this misconception of its character vanishes,
when we are permitted to examine all its cobstituent
parts. We have seen that the persons who coms
pose it are not public officers; that the business
it pursues is not a public business, and that its
agency for the government is that of a private individual: from none 'of which it can derive any exemption -not common to private corporations.
The.charter itself, abstracted from the individuals upon whom it is conferred, must be without
any bperative effect. It is in the nature of a grant;
but a grant is nothing, unless there be a grantee
to take, as well as a subject to be granted. When
an association of individuals is formed, and entitle themselves to a grant of corporate franchiSes,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

8o as to give- operative effect to that grant, they

1824.

acquire in it a private vested right; it becomes Osbom
their private property; and so long as they comply
v.
U.S..Bank.
in
'disturbed
be
no-more
cin
they
terms,
with its
the possession of it, by the grantors, than by a
third person or stranger. Suqh is the situation of
the Bank. The charter is their property, derived,
to be sure, from a public grant, but, nevertheless,
as distinctly the private property of the individuals,
as if derived froma contract or grant from-iridividuals, its former proprietors. Why is it an incident to this species of property, that it sh'ould le
exempt from taxation by the States?
One reason only is offered. Itis granted bythe
national government; and if the States zan tax
it, they may, in effect, render it useless to the
grantees. But the States may confessedly exercise thisp9ower over the employments and property
of individuals.. All property is held subject to it,
when held by individuals, no matter whence it is
derived. "In Ohio, the State cannot tax the public
lands, while owned by the government, -nor for
five years after they become the property of individuals.. She is. bound by compact on this point.
But it. never was conceived, that because it was
once owned by the nation, and the title to the iudi.
vidual derived from a national grant, the States
could not tax it. Restricted as this poweroftaxation is in the State of Ohio, -yet there can be 4o
poesible difficulty in so employing, it, as to defeat
aR future sales of public !ands within that State.
It is only to provide, by law for assessing such tax
upon all lands hereafter sold, to be collected after

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,1.

the expiration of five years from the sale, as would

render the lands a burthen to the proprietor, and
V.
the object would be effected. Yet the power to
U. S. Bank. do this would hardly be held
a sufficient ground
for attaching to lands thus sold, an exemption from
State taxation as incident to the grant. Why
should a grant of franchises be distinguished from
a grant of land, when the grantee; in- both maees,
receives it in confirmation of a purchasefrornuho
govelnment, to be held as his own individual pro,
pertyP We are warranted by the opinion of' it
least one of the Judges of this Court, in asserting,
that "a grant of franchises is not, in point of principle, distinguishable from a grant of any other
prbperty."" If this be correct, then there can be
nor reason for attaching any exemption to a grant
of franchises, because the grant is conferred1 -y
the national government. The grantee must hold
the property subject to all the burthens wh:'h
might be.imposed upon it, had he obtained it from
any other source.
It may be objevied, that this doctrinb tsserts'a
power in the States to, tax the patent rights granted
by the national government. And why not? By
the grbat it is constitued individual prcperty; but
d~s the power conferred upon the national government, to secure to the authors of.useful in,
ventions the exclusive use of their machines, necessarily attach to the patent for such exclusive
right ait exemption from takation albo ? Is it not
enbugh, that tlk ihventbr of a new speoied of proOsborn

a 4 Wheat. Rep. 684.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Perty may be secured in a monopoly of its employ- 1824.
ment? Does the" mere fact of conferring such Osborn
monopoly, of necessity imply a right tQ enjoy it
r.
exempt from the btirthens td which other property U.S.Bank.
is subject? How far is this exemption to be carried ? Would it exempt a steam loom from a general tax upon looms? or a steam mill from a general tax upon mills? Would a barrel of flour be
subject to taxation, if, in the process of manufactory, it were carried from the meal chest to the
cooling room upon a miller's shoulder; but exempt if it were hoisted by elevators, or gathered
to the bolt-hopper by a hoppei boy? Does this
exemption attach to the grant, only in the hands
of the monopolist, or extend also to his grantees
of the monopoly? Is the exemption to be withdrawn so soon as the invention passes into the
hands of the mechanic for practical pnrposes? or
does it adhere to the macbinery, and attach to the
fabric manufactured? At whatever point it is
withdrawn, the same consequences may follow.
The power of State taxation, if it attach at all,
may be so used as to render the patent of very
little value. If the patent itself, or the machinery
when constructed, or the employment of such machinery, or the fabrics manufactured by.it, maybe
taixed, an excessive tax can, in one way as well
as another, affedt the benefits derived by the patentee from the pateit, and may eveil prevent its
use. Still, in this respect, it standb upon the.
same footing with other private property, and
there is no sotind reasdn fot enfifbrfitg uipli itany
ro. IX.
100

CAsES IN THE SVPR=ME COURT

1824. higher privilege.. Ever, thing in the nature of'
~~-'property, produced by the labour of the husbandOsbom
v.
wman apad the mechanic, may be thxed. They have
U.S Bank. no othor security that the taxmay not be excessive
and oppressive, than what is afforded by their
weight in the government, and a sense'of justice
in.legislative assemblies. If the powers'of genius.
be so applied as to produce ay thing in which the
inventor claims a property, this product of labour
must be treated as other. productions of the same
class. No speoial eiemptions are necessary incidents of its invention or creation. So far, then,
as there is a just analogy between the Bank and
patent rights, so far they qre alike.to be looked
upon as private property, and 'o exepaption from
taxation can be conceded. to either, as an. incident
of the 'franchise conferred upon them by a.grant
from the National Legislature.
...Last of all, this exemption from taxation is not
an incident essential to the very existence of the
Bank; the Bank may, exist with.ot it; may exist
beneficially without it, as we contend, .did exist
for.twenty years without it, and was- extensively
useful. .This exemption may conduce much to its
.convenience, and, perhaps, veryconsiderably to
its-profit.- But many thin*s • may be convenient
and beneficial in.the account of mercantile profit
or.Bank dividends, which are not .necessary to
the very existence qf the corporation. , certhinly
the exemption from taxation is of this character,
It is not incident to-the orporation. LIf,a6oessary
.to.secure:to it.th& most beneficial.,uses of its corporate franchises, it must obtain it 'by a special

OF THE UNITED STATES.

grant; it must be specially inserted.

An inquiry,

1824.

how far Congress have constitutional power to do

Osbora

this, were they to attempt it, would still further
elucidate the erroneous chardcter of the position,
that it is an incident of the charter, independent
of special grant.
Mr. Clay, for the respondents, declined arguing
the question of the right of the State of Ohio to
tax the Bank, considering it as finally determined
by the former decision of the Court, which was
supported by irresistible arguments, to which he
could add no farther illustration. But this was
not, like the law of Maryland, a case of.taxation.
It was a law enacted for the.purpose of expelling
the branches of the Bank from the State of Ohio,
by inflicting penalties ainounting to a prohibition.
It might be called a bill of pains and penalties.
An examination of its 'provisions, would show,
that the penalties were greater in amount than the
entire dividends. It was unequal and unjust in its
operations. It was a confiscation, and not a tax.
It was the same on the branch at Cincinnati, which
had a capital of one million and a half, with that
at Chilicothe, which had only a .capital of half a
million of dollars. It was obvious, that if one State
could, in this manner, expel one of the offices of
discount and deposit from its territory, every State
might do the same thing. If one State may expel a branch, another State may expel the parent
Bank itself.; and thus this great institution of the
national government, wouild be extirpated and de-

,.

CASES UiN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

stroyed by the local governments, within whose
Osborm
"territoryit
was established.
v.
Is it possible, that against this highly penal law,
U,S.,Bank. there is no: preventive, peaceable remedy? that

the Bank must submit to the alternative of withdrawing its branches, or of paying.the penalty?
that it must do this, not for one year, but for the
whole perod of its existence ? Is it possible, that
our jurisprudence should* be so defective, that
the law of the whole may be defeated in its opera,

tion by a single part? that if a State should lay a
duty on imports or tonnage, contrary to the express provisions of the constitution, no adequate
means ceuld be found to prevent its collection by
the officers of the State government?
All these propositions must be maintained by
our opponents, or they must surrender their cause.
It is, accordingly, contended by them, that the remedy is misconceived, (1".) because the State is
not made a party. But if such parties are before
the Court, as will enable it to *make an effectual
dearee, it will proceed, although there be improper parties made, or parties oinitted, who might
have been made. Such is the practice where jurisdietion is sustained in the Circuit Court against
some parties, against whom an effectual decree
can-be made, although otheri are onmitted, on account of their being absent, or citizens of the same
State with the plaintiff.._ The true ground seems
to be, that if the Court can give redress ; if its decree can be rejidered effectual; if the party can

oF THE UNITED STATES.

be put in possession of the thing claimed, the
Court -will proceed. Here the party omitted, is a
sovereign State, who is entirely exempt from juris-

1824.
V.

diction. The Court will, therefore, proceed against U' S. Bank.

the other proper-parties.
But it is also insisted, that the remedy is niisconceived, because a State is the real party defendant. We deny that a: collateral or contingent
interest, will necessarily, make a party who must
be joined.
The State is not a formal party on the record;
and that the State is not necessarily a party, by
reason of its incidental interest, is conceded by the
admission, that the Bank might have recovered in
trover, trespass, or detinue, against the defendants, who actually took the money. That theIsuit
concerns the public acts of an officer of the State
government, who is one of the defendants, does
not make the State itself'a necessary party. This
is the settled law of the Court. In the case of the
UizitedStatesv. Peters, it was held that, although
the interests of a State may be ultimately affected
by the decision of a cause, yet if an effectual remey can be had, without making the State a defendant to the sqit, the Courts of the United Slates
are bound to exercise jurisdiction. So, in England, in the Grenada ease, the fiscal rights of the
sovereign werie diawn directly in questiod, .and
finally determined, in a suit brought by an individual, to recover-back from ihe eolledtor of the customs of the island, the amount of duties unconsti-a 5 Cranch-,115.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tutionally levied by that officer.n a The party there
was not compelled to resort to his petition of right,
Osbom
V. or any other mode of proceeding peculiar to claims
against the crown. The immunity of one of the
States of this Union from suits in the Courts of
justice, is not greater than that of the crown in
England. The constitution merely ordains, that
a State, in its sovereign capacity, shall not be sued.
It does not ordain, that the citizen shall not have
justice done him, because a State may' happen to
be collaterally interested. It does not ordain that
a law of ihe United States shall be violated, to the
prejudice of a citizen, because a law of the State
happens to come under consideration. If the State
.. of Ohio is a party, so is the government of the
United States a party in its sovereign interests,
Which are more sared and important than mere
proprietary interests. But even if the State be a
party, that circumstance would not oust the jurisdiction of the Court, in a case arising under the
constitution and laws of ihe Uniofi. There the
nature of the controversy, and not the character of
the.parties, must determine the question of jurisdiction, Such is conceived to be the spirit and
effect of the decision of the Court, in the case of
Cohens v. Virginia. It is competent for Con-'
gress to determine.wh.at Courtshall have jurisdiction in this class of cases, which it hag dlone us to
the Bank, by giving it. the right of suing in the
Circuit Courts of the-Union.
Again; if the State-is to be codsidered a party,

1824.

a Campbell v Hall, -Cov. 204.

OF THE -J1NMD STATES.

it is a party plaintiff. The State is the actor, and
the Bank- is a defendant. In form it may not be

799
1824.
' '
Oborn

v.
so, but the substance is to be regarded. The inU.S.B"_
proceeding.
defensive
a
junctionis essentially
Suppose the State, or even the United States, had
recovered a judgment against the Bank, might
ndt the proceedings upon that. judgment be enjoined? And is the nature of the case varied, because the proceeding is here in pais?. Suppose
the State had proceeded by distraining for the-tax,
and the Bank had replevied, who wotild have been
both the real and technical plaintiff in that.case?
The whole case is to-be considered accordinbg to
its true nature and character, which -is, that of a
proceeding by the State to recQver a tax or penalty;
and the Bank resorts to its natural protector for
defence, by means of an injunction, which is a
parental, preventive, peacebable'remedy.
It is said that this is a case of trespass only,
and that the party ought to. have been left to his
appropritte remedy at law. But this is not a case
of a solitary remediable trespass. It is -one of
annual, of repeated, vexatious occurrence, for
which .An injunctiofi is the appropriate remedy.
All injunctions are discretionary, and grantea'upon
the peculiar circumstances. of the case. The jurisdiction of a -Court of equity as to injunctiois,
has been always considered a most useful one, and,
of late years, they have been dispense'd with a
much more-liberal hand than formefly.. They am
granted to prevent fraud or injustice; to stay proceedings in other Courts; to restraini the infringe-:
ment of patent. and copy rights; to res9pin the

800

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

t824.
Osor

transfer of negotiable instruments, where the
transfer will defeat the object of the suit; to stay

waste, in which case they bave superseded
the
common law remedy by writ of estrepement. In

the case of patents and .copyrights, it is not necessary to establish previously the right at law, for
it is grounded on an actof parliament, and appears
by record.a Thb principle on which injunotions
ihtall these cases are granted, is to prevent a
wrong where damages would not give adequate
relief, So, there are cases where bills of peace
have been brought, though a mere genoral right
was claimed by the plaintiff, and no piivity between him and the defendants, nor any general
rights 'on -the part of the defendants, and where
many more might be concerned than those brought
before the Court. Spch are bills ,for dutieg, as ii
the case of the City.of London v. Perhin. Iti
the present case, it is quite clear that it would be
an idle mockery to compel the parties to resort to
their legal remedy, which would be wholly ibacequate to prevent the destruction" of their franchise.
-A to the formal objection of the defect ofa warrant of attorney from the Bank, authbrizing these
proceedings, it is now too late to take that objection, even if it could have been available, at any
stitge of the suit. It is matter of form only, which
should have been pleaded in abatement. It is
cured by the provisions 6f the tidiciary Act of
1789, ch. 20. s. a4.
I Ifladd. CA. 113. 123. 128. and tbe cazather, kited.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Wright, for the appellants, in reply, in- 1824.
must be shown for Osbom
sisted, that a special 'authority
•
v.
the institution of the suit in the name of a corpoBank.
S.
U.
unattorney*,
by
appear
only
could
ration, which
der its common seal.* Admitting, however, that

the corporation might, by a mere resolution o~f the
board of directors, authorize the suit,, following
the analogy of the cases of The Bank.of Columbia v. Patterson, and Flecknerv. The Bank of
the United States, such resolution must appear
on the record, in the same manner as a w arrant of
attorney. Nor are the defendants- preclfided by
the appeal from taking advantage of this defect. A decree is a judicial act. Its validity depends upon there being a party before the Court,
legally competent to ask it. A corporation can
only appear by its attorney or solicitor, duly authorized; and if this authority is not apparent
upon the face of the xecord, the decree is erroneous, and cannot-be supportedThere are ne proofs ...admissions sufficient to
charge the defendant, Sullivan. He knows nothing of bis own knowledge. The information
from his predecessor in office, Cbrrie, is no proof.
The bill chafges, that he-received the money as a
dposit, without any intetest in it. The answer
statei, that he receives and hbldt it as a publi"
officer, and .has no-private- interest in it. The
case in, 6 Ves.jr. 738. was a muich stronger adminsion than this, -and yet it was held insufficient.
The answef of on defendant cannot affect another.
iTe alnswer oi a party having no interest,
gannot affect a pdrion having an interest. The
lot

802

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
•Osborn

•v,

U. S. Bank.

answer, of Sullivan and Currie could not affect the
State of Ohio, against which the decree operated,
and whose treasury was entered, in order to execute the writ of sequestration.
It is impossible -.o deterniine, whether the injunction is meant to be supported upon the ground
of preventing an irreparable .injury, or of protecting the franchise .of the Vilaintiffs. No caso
has been shown of an injunction. to prevent a more
trespass on chattels, or. where the injury intended
is not an interference in the enjoyment of the
plaintiff's exclusive privileges, but onlya trespass
upon their property, for which they have an adequate remedy, by suit at law, in various fbrms of
action. Mere general principles, upon which
Courts of equity may have proceeded a certain'
length in interposing by injunction, will not warrant the extending this extraordinary remedy still
further. -Some analogous case must be found to
support this injunction.
An injunction binds no person but the parties
to the suit." Here the sole interest is in the State
of Ohio, She is, the'refore;an indispensable party
to the bill. But she cannot be made a party, because she cannot be sued. The inevitable consequence is, that the Court below cannot take jurisdiction of the cause. Where, indeed, the procedding'is in rem; or operates upon the subject
matter in controversy, disconnected from the perdons interested ; if it can be shown that any person
interested, who is siubject to the jurisdiction of
a 7 Ve. 255. 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 25.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

803

the Court, is ibsent beyond the reach of its pro- 1824.
cess, it is not necessary to make such person a Osbom
party. But here the party omitted is a sovereign U.S.V.
Ba.I
State, who is within reach of process, but is not
subject to the jurisdiction, and cannot be brought
before the Court. The case of Cohens v. Virginia does not apply. That case relates exclusively to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, and merely establishes the doctrine, that
where the'State commences a suit in its own.
Courts, and a question,' arises under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, the defendant
may bring the cause before this Court by appeal
or writ of error. The appellate process is not
considered as a suit against-the State, within the
meaning of the 1Itli amendment. The Grenada
case, in England, is equall; inapplicable.0 It was
an *actionof assumpsit, brought to recover back
the amount- of certain duties paid to the Collector
of the island; and Which had been retained in his
hands, by the consent of the A(torx y-General,
for the express purpose of trying the question, as
to fle. validity of the King's proclamation, by
which the duties werd imposed. Thne Court-determined, thlit the King -had precluded himself
from the exercise of his power of prerogative legislation over a conquered country, by previously
authorizing th6 establishment of a colonial Legislature, and, therefore, gave judgment for the plaintiff. The present suit is substantially a suit against
the State. The 11th amendment to the consfitution was intended to protedt the State effectually
a Cwp. 204.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

from the suit of an individual, not to permit its
-rights to be drawn in question, and its

'sovereign

Osborm

property to be taken indirectly by suing its officers.
U. s. Bank. In the case of the United States v. Peters the
V..

interference of 'the State was, by a law passed
subsequent to the decree, and intended to operate
directly upon it, and defeat its execution, . Court
of law, from necessity, sometimes allows suits to
be maintained against mere agents, who are the
active pdrties, in cases of trespass or other torts;
but.it is.the invariable practice of the Court of
Chancery to proceed against the partiew'really interested, and the omission of any of them is a
fatal defect. The policy which exempts the States
from being sued in the Courts of the Union, is the
same, whether the case arise under the constitution and laws of the United States, or whether the
jurisdiction is founded upon the character of the
parties. The terms of the exe.mption equally
comprehend both classes of cases.
.itarh llth.

The Court having expressed a wish that the
cause should be re-argued upon the point of "the
constitutionality'and effect, of the provision in the
cha-rter of-the Bank, which authorizes it to sue in
the Circuit Courts of the Union, it was this day
again argued upon that point, (in connexion with
the case' of he Bank of the United States v.
The Planters' Bank of .Georgia, in which the
same question was involved,) by Mr. Clay, Mri.
Wrbster,!and Mr. Sergeant, for £he jurisdictionl,
and by Mr. Harper,Mr. Broion, and Mr. WiZWght,
against it.,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

805

In favour- of the jurisdiction, it was argued, 1824.
(1.) that the jurisdiction was expressly and unequivocally conferred by the act of 1816, s. 7. inV.
corporating the Bank. The terms used were free U.S. Bank
from all ambiguity, and they were. introduced for
the avowed purpose of giving jurisdiction to the
Circuit Courts. In the case of the Bank of the
United States v. Deveauxa it had been decided,
that the former national Bank had not, by virtue of
its charter, a right to sue in the .federal Courts.
That charter gave it a right "to sue and be sued,
in Courts of record, or any other place whatsoever,"
which it was determined did not confer the privi-.
lege of suing in the Courts of the Union, they not
being expressly mentioned.
But no doubt was
intimated, that those Courts would have had jurisdiction, ifthey had been mentioned in the act. It
was to supply this defect, that Congress adopted
the phraseology which is contained in the present
charter, giving the Bank power "to sue and be
sued in all State Courts having competentjurlsdiction, and in any Circuit Court of the United
States." -Power in the party "to sue," confers
jurisdiction on the Court. Jurisdiction is always
given for the sake of the suitor, never for the sake
of the Court. It was most natural to give the
privilege to the suitor, and that necessarily carries
with it the jurisdiction; for without the jurisdiction, he cannot enjoy the right. To authorize the
bringing of a suit, is to authorize a suit to be entertaiied. The patent laws, and many other staa 5 cranch. 61. 85. 86.

806

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
-Osborn
V.
Ui. S. Bank.

tutes of Congress, have been construed to give jurisdiction by the use of similar terms.
2. That Congress had constitutional authority
to confer this jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts.
It was."a case arising under the constitution and
laws of the United States." Every case, in which
the Bank of the United States is a party, is, in the
strictest literal interpretation of the clause, a case
arising under a law and the constitution of the
United States. But for the law, the case would
never have existed. But for the continued existence of the law, it could not continue to exist. If,
by any conceivable means, the law were to be determined, the case must be at an end. There is,
therefore, an inseparable, indissoluble connexion
between the law and the case, as cause and effect.
The case owes its being to the law, and only to the
law. The establishment of a corporation is a legislative creation of a faculty, 'of a moral being,
invisible and intangible, but with capacities, powers, and privileges, rights and duties. The rights
it may acquire, the wrongs it may suffer, the obligations it may incur, the injuries it may inflict, the
acts it may do, its powe r to do, or to endure, arc all
derived from, and dependent upon, the charter. To
the charter it owes its being, its continued existence, its qualities and properties. The charter
defines its duties, and affords the only measure of
its resporsibilities. Every act it performs, derives
its validity from the charter only ; and whenever it
deals with another, it deals under and according to
the charter. In the sanie manner, whoever deals
with it, deals under and according to the chhrter.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

807

Its capacity -to contract, . and to sue and be sued, 1824,
all are derived fromthit source. It cannot come Osbom
into Court, without bringingthe law in its band. Itis
v.
Bank
S.
U.
within
acting
is
it
that
show,
to
case
every
bound in
the limits of its corporate powers, as defined in that
law. There can be no case, where the Bank is a
party, in which questions may not arise under the
laws of the United States. In every such case, it
must appear, that it was duly created, continues to
exist, has power to contract, and to bring the suit.
All these are matters arising uinder the laws of the
United States, and under no other. Suppose an
officer created by act of Congress, could not Congress confer on him the privilege of suing and being sued, in his official bapacity, in the Courts of
the Union ? Such an officer has two capacities,
private and official, and may be subject to diffeir
ent jurisdictions, according as either is affected.
But a corporation has but one capacity, and its faculties cannot be divided. Wherever an authority
is given, all that is done by virtue of that authority, is done under it. Every thing done by the
Baik, is done under the charter.
If it should be contended, that the character of
the case depends upon the questions to arise in it,
the answer is, that it is not so restricted by the
constitution; and that it cannot be previously
known, what particular questions may arise in the
progress of the cause. The -principal draws to it
the incident, or accessory. The character of the
case depends upon its general natpre. Every suit
brought by the Bank, is for the funds placed in
its charge, undera law of the United States.

UASES IN THE, SIPREIE GOURT

1824.
Osborn

v.

U.S.Bank.

But the 'question here, is about the exercise of
a sovereign power, given for great national purposes. Those who framed the constitution, intended to establish a government complete for its
own purposes, supreme within its sphere, and capable of acting by its own proper powers. They
intended it to consist of three co-ordinate branches, legislative, executive, and judicial. In the
construction of such a government, it is an obvious maxim, "that the judicial power should be
competent to give 'efficacy to the constitutional
laws of the Legislature."a The judicial authority, therefore; must be co-extensive with the legislative power.' It would be quite as reasonable to
leave the exebution of the laws of the Union to
the State executives, as to leave the exposition of
them to the State judieiaries. It was intended,
that the federal judiciary should expound all the
laws of the government, and that the federal executive should e:kecute them all. This association
is so inseparable, that the power of legislation carries with it the power of establishing judicial tribunals. It is so with respect to the power of exclusive legislation within the District of Columbia.
So the power of establishing post offices and post
roads, involves that of providing judicial means
for the punishment of mail robbers. Most of the
statutes for the punishment of crimes, are founded
on the same basis. The great object, then, of the
a Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Mheat. Rep. 414.

bi The Federalist,No. 80. Cohens v. Virgin'4, 6 Wheat. Rep.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

809

constitutional provision, respecting the judiciary,

1824.

must make it co-extensive with the power of le-

Os5bom

V.
gislation, and to associate them inseparably, so
that where one went, the other might go along with U.S. Bank.
it. The first part of the article, where the jurisdiction is made to depend upon the nature of the
controversy, is employed for this purpose, not to
limit and'restrain. But it wns necessary. for great
purposes of public policy, to extend it to other cases, where the jurisdiction is made to depend upon the character of the parties. These are the
subject of the remaining part of the article. In
that part of it which relates to cases arising under
the constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union,
there is a redundancy in the language : "ALL cases." - The pleonasm is here meant to perform
its usual office, to be emphatic. It marks the intention, and affords a. principle -of construction.
The additional terms, "all cases in law and equity," also serve to heighten the effect, and to show
that nothing of this essential power was to be put
to hazard. Surely such a clause must be construed liberally. It is a maxim applicable to the interpretation of a grant of political power, that the authority to create must infer a power effectually to
protect, to preserve, and to sustain.0 It is no less
a maxim, that the power to create a faculty of any
sort, mrust infer the power to give it the means ofexermlse. A grant of the end is necessarily a
-grant of the meansr The constitutional power of
Congress to create a Bank, is derived altogether
a M'Oult6ch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. Rep. 426.
VOL. IX.

102

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

from the necessity of such an institution, for the
Osborn fiscal pur.poses of the Union. It is established,
v.
not for the benefit of the stockholders, but. for thd
U.SB;k. benefit of the nation. It is part of the fiscal means
of the nation, Indeed, "the power of creating a
corporation, is .never used for its own Aake, but for
the purposp of effecting something else."" The
Bank is created for the purpose of facilitating all
the fiscal operations of the national government.
All its powers and faculties.are conferred for this
purpose, and for this alone; and it is to be supposed, that no other or greater powers are conferred
than are necessary to this end. Tho collection
and administration of the public revenue i, of all
others, the most i-mportant branch of the public
service. It is that which least admits of hindrance
or obstruction. The Bank is, in effect, an instrument of the government, and its instrumental character is its principalcharacter. That is the end;
all the rest are means. It is as. much'a servant of
the government as the treasury department. The
two faculties of the Bank, which are essential to
ita existence -and utility, are, its capacity to hold
property, and that of suing and being sued. The
latteris the necessary sanction and security of the
fArmer, and of all the rest. The former must be
inviolable, and the latter must be sufficient to secure its inviolability. But it is not so, if Congress
cannot erect a forum, to which the Bank may retort for justice. A needful operation of the government becombs dependent upon foreign supa M'Calloch v. Marylnnd, 4 JiT/eai. Rep. 411.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

port, which may be given, but which may also be 1924.
withheld. There is no unreasonable jealousy of O5born
State judicatures; but the constitutioni itself supv.
poses that they may not always be worthy of con- U.S. Bank
fidefice, where the rights and interests of the national government are drawn in question. It is
indispensable, that the interpretation and application of the laws and treaties of the Union should
be uniform. The danger of leaving the administration of the nationfal justibe to the local tribunals,
is not merely speculative. In Ohio, the Bank has
been outlawed; and if it cannot seek redress in the
federal tribunals, it can find it no whete. Where
is the power of coercion in the national government ? What is to become of the public revenue
while it is going on? Congress might not only have
given original, but k might have given exclusive
jurisdiction, in the cases mentioned in the 25th seetidn of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20,; instead of
which, ithas contented itself with giving an appellate jurisdiction, to correct the errors of the State
Courts, where a 'question incidentally arises under
the laws and treaties of the Union. But here the
question is, whether the government of the United
States can execute one of its own laws, through
the process of its own Courts. The right of the
Bank to sue in the national Courts, is one of its
essential faculties. If that can be taken away, it
is deprived of a part of its being, as much us if it
were stripped of its power of discounting notes,
receiving deposits, or dealing in bills of exchange.
Against the jurisdiction, it was said, that by the
act incorporating the old Bank of the United

CASES IN TUIE SUPREME COURT

1824.

States, authbrity is given to the corporation "to
Osborn sue,
• &c. in Courts of record, or any other place
V. whatsoever." By the present charter, it is emV. 5. Bank. powered "to sue, &c. in all State Courts having
competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court
of the United States." No difference is perceived in the legal effect of these two acts. Both
give the same privileges. The Circuit Corirts of
the Union are "Courts of record;" and an authority to sue in Courts of record, or any other place
whatsoever, is an authority to sue in the Circuit
Courts. So that, if Congress were competent, under the constitution, to vest such a jurisdiction in
the federal Courts, itwas vested by the first act of
incorporation. But in the case of the Bank of
the United States v. Deveauz, the Court sayo,
that "by the judiciary act, the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts is extended to cases where the constitutional right to plead aud be impleaded in the
Courts of the Union, depends on the charactcrof
the parties; but where that right depends on the
natureof the case, the Circuit Courts derive no jurisdiction from that act, except in the single case
of a controversy between citizens of the sarie State
claiming lands under grants from different States.
Unless, then, jurisdiction over this cause has been
given to the Circuit Court, by some other than the
Judiciary Act, the Bank of the United States had
not a right to sue in that Court, upon the principle that the case arises under a law of the United
States." The Court then proceeds to consider,
1 7 Cranch, 85.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

813

whether jurisdiction had been given to the Circuit 1824.
Court by the act incorporating the Bank, and deV
termines that it had not. TheJudiciary Act, nor no
other law of Congress, can extend the jurisdiction U.S.Bank.
of the federal Courts beyond the constitutional limits. The charter attempted to confer jurisdirtion on the State Courts, in cases where the Bank
is a party. This provision, and that empowering
it to sue in the Circuit Courts of the Union, are
both equally void. The act must, therefore, be
restricted; so as to give the corporation authority
to sue and be sued in such Courts only as are competent to take jurisdiction. This Court has determined, that the right of a corporation to litigate
in the Courts of the Union, depends upon the'character (as to citizenship) of the members which
compose the body corporate, and that a corpora-fion, as such, cannot be a citizcn, within the meanhig of the constitution.- There is here no averment on the record, that the plaifitiffs have a right
to sue, upon the ground of' the corporation being
citizens of a different State from the defendants ;
nor could such averment have been made, consistently with the truth of the fact.
It had been said, that every suit brought by the
Bank, arises under 'the laws of the United States,'
because the Bank, with all its powers and faculties, was created, and existed, by a law of the
United States. So it might be said of an alien
who is naturalized by the laws of the Union, that
a Hope Insurance Company v. Boardman) 5 Cranch, 6L

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824,
V

U.S.Bank.

he derives his citizenship from those laws.

But,

could Congress, therefore, authorize all naturalized
citizens to sue in the Courts of the Union? A

clear distinction exists between a party and a
cause; the party may originate under a law with
which the cause has no connexion. A revenue
officer may commit a trespass while executing his
official duties, and if he justifies under the statutes
of the United States, a question will arise under
them,-in which an appellate jurisdiction is given
to this Court, to correct the errors of the State
Courts. But'could Congress give additional ju.risdiction to the federal Courts, in all. suits brought
by or against'the revenue officers ? In M'Intyrc
v. Wood,' this Court says, "when questions arise
under the constitution of the United States, in
the State Courts, and the party who claims a right
or privilege under them is unsuccessful, an appeal is given to the Supreme Court; and this provision the Legislature has thought sufficient at
present for all the political purposes to be answered by the clause of the constitution which relates to the subject." And it may be added, that
it must remain sufficient until the law shall be
changed by some unequivocal provision within the
constiliitional competency of Congress to make.
It was also contended, that every right that accrues to the Bank in its corporate character, upon
which a suit can be maintained, is to be regarded
as arising under the charter, and, consequently,
under a law of the United States. But the jursa 7 Cranch, 505. •

OF THE UNITED STATES.

815

dictionof the federal Courts, if it attach at all, 1824.
must attach either to the party or to the case. Usbom
The party and his rights cannot be so mixed tov.
B~nk.
S.
U.
shall
first
the
of
origin
legal
-the
that
as
gether,
give characte' to the latter. A controversy regarding a promissory note or bill of exchange
cannot be said to arise under an act of Congress,
because the Bank, which is created by an act *of
Congress,. has purchased the note or bill. Neither the rules of evidence, nor the law of contract,
can be regulated by the National Legislature.
But, in the case supposed, no question can arise,
except under the law of contract and the rules of
evidence. No law of Congress is drawn into question, and its correct decision cannot possibly depend upon the construction 6f such law.- The
Bank cannot .come into the federal Courts as a
party suing for a breach of contract or a trespass
upon .its property; for, neither its character as a
party, nor the nature of a controversy, can give
the Court jurisdiction. The case does not.arise
under its charter. •It arises-under the general or
local law of contract, and may be -determined
without openiiig the statute book of the United
States. - The privilege conferred upon the Bank
in its charter. to sue in the Circuit Courts, must
be limited, not only by the criterion indicated ; it
must also be limited by the general provisions of
the Judiciary Act, regulating the exercise ofjuris.diction in the Circuit Courts. It cannot sue upon
a chose.i action assigned to it, unless the jurisdiction would have attached between the original
parties: it cannot sue a party in the Circuit Court,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
O3born

V.

over whom the existing laws give the Supreme
Court exclusive jurisdiction. -The privilege must
be enjoyed, subject to existing laws.- As to the

.S.B3ank. legislation of Congress in giving to the Courts of

the Union cognizance of criminal offences, that depended on the plain principle, that where a power
is granted, all its incidents pass. Congress has
power to legislate on various subjects. It is an
incident, that they may enforce obedience to the
laws they make on those subjects, by punishing
offences against them. Thus, for example, the
right to punish perjury, and the falsification of judicial records, is essential to the administration of
justice. Hence, Congress has assumed the.power
of punishing those offences, when connected with
the proceedings in the Courts of the Union. So,
in the case of patents, the grant creates the right;
aud the power to secure to inventors the exclusive
benefit of their discoveries, could not'be executed
without giving the patentees a right to sue in those
Courts.
March 194

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court, and, after stating the case, proceeded as follows:
At the close bf the argumnent, a point was suggtsted, of such vita'l inportance, as to induce the
Court to request that'it might be particularly-spo-"
ken to. That point is, -the right of the Bank td
sue in the Courts of the United-States. It has
been argued, and ought to be disposed of, before
we proceed to the actual exercise of jurisdiction,
by deciding on the rights of the parties,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The appellants contest the jurisdiction of tue 1824.
Court on two grounds: 9
~Osbor
v.
1st. That the act of Congress has not given it.'
U,s.Bnk.
2d. That, under the constitution, Congress canCiuit
IThe
Courts have
not give it.
ri d t io n of
1. The first part of the . objection depends en-ju
suitss ic
by and
the
against
are,
words
The
act.
of the
tirelj on the language
y
Bank.
that the Bank shall be " made able and capable
in law,"1 "to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered, defend and be
defended, in "all State Courts having competent
jur: 3diction, and in any Circuit Court of the UiiStates."
These words seem to the Court to admit of but
one interpretation. They cannot be made plainet,
by explanation. They giye, expressly, the right
"1to sue and be sued," "in evety Circuit Court of
the United States," and it would be difficult to substitute other terms which would be more direct and
appropriate for the purpose. The argument of the
appellants is founded on the opinion of this Court,
in The Bank of the United States v. Deveaux,
(5 Cranch, 85.)- In that case it ivas decided,
that the former-Bank of the Unite'd States was not
enabled, by the act which incorporated it, -to sue
in the federal Courts. The words of the d section of.that act are, that the Bank may "sue and
be sued," &c. "iin Courts of record, or any other
place whatsoever." The Court was of opinion)
that these general words, which *re usual in all
acts of incorporation, gave only a general capacity
to sue, not a particular privilege to, styein the
VOL.IX.
103

CASES LN THE SUPREMv1E LOURT

1824.
'strengthened
Osborn

v.

1. S. Bank.

Courts of the United States; and this opifiion was
by the circumstance that the 9th

rule of the 7th section of the same act, subjects
the directors, in case of excess in contracting debt,
to be sued in their private capacity, " in ariy
Court of reeord of the United States, or either of
them." The express grant of jurisdiction to the
federal Courts, in this case, was considered as
having some influence on the construction of the
general words of the 3d section, which does not
mention those Courts. Whether this decision be
right or wrong, it amounts only to a declaration,
that a . neral capacity in the Bank to sue, without
mentioning the Courts of the Union, may not give
a right to sue in those Courts. To infer from this,
that words expressly conferring a right to sue in
those Courts, do not give the right, is surely a'
conclusion which the premises do not warrant.
The act of incorporation, then, confers jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts of the United States,
if Congress can confer it.

The clause

in the charter

2. We will now consider the constitutionality of

the clause in- the act of incorporation, which authorizes the Bank to sue in the federal Courts.
In support of this clause, it is said, that the leCourtF.is congislative, executive, and judicial powers, of every
=tltutionaI.
well constructed government, are co-extensive with
each other ; that is, they are potentially co-eqtenlive. The executive department may constitutionally execute every law which the Legislature
-may constitutionally make, and the judicial department may receive from' the Legislature the
power of construing every such law. ' All govemrof the Batk,

which authorizes
to sue
In theit Circuit

. OF THE UNITED- STATES.

e'10

-inents which are not extremely defective in their 1824.
organization, must possess, within themselves, %,V-A.
Osb .a.
V
the means of expounding, as well as enforcing,
their own laws. If we examine the constitution
of the United States, we find that its framers kept
this great political principle in view. The 2d article vests the whole executive power in the President; and the 3d article declares, "that the judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
equity; arising under this constitution, the laws of
the United.States, and treaties made, or which
shall be mide, under their authority."
This clause enables the judicial department to
receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the consti
tution, laws, and treaties of the United States,
when any 4uestion respecting them shall assume
such a form that the judicial power is capable of
acting on it. That power is capable of acting
only when the subject is submitted to it by a
party who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law. It then becomes a case, and the
constitution declares, that the judicial power shall
extend to all cases arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the .United States.
The suit of The Bank of the United States v.
Osborn and others, is a case, and the question
is,. .whether itarises under a law of the United
States ?,
, The appellants contend,that it-does not, because
several questions may arise in it, which depend
on the general principles of the law, not on any
act of Congress.
If this were sufficient -to withdraw a casa from

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
V.
U. S. Bank.

the jurisdiction of the federal Courts, almoaf every
case, although involving .the construction of a law,
would be withdrawn ; and a clause in the constitution, relating-to a subject of vital importance to
the government, and expressed in the most cofnprehensive terms, would be construed to mean almost nothing. There is scarcely any case, every
part of which depends on the constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States. The questions,
whether the fact alleged as the fonndation of the
action, be real or fictitious; whether the conduct
of the plaintiff has been su{b as to entitle him to
maintain his action; whejijer his right is barred;
whether lie has received satisfaction, or has in any
manner released his claims, are questions, some
or all of which inay ocur in almost every case;
and if their existence be sufficient to arrest the jurisdiction of the Court, words which seem intended
to be as extensive as the constitution, laws, and
treaties of the Union, which seem designed to
give the Courts of the government the construction
of all its acts, so far as they affect the rights of
individuals, would be reduced to almost nothing.
Tn those cases in which original jurisdiction is
given to the Supreme Court, the judicial power of
the United States cannot be exercised in its appellate form. In every other case, the power is
to be exercised in its original or appellate form, or
both, as the wisdom of Congress may direct. With
the exception of these cases, in wbich original jurisdiction is given to this Court, thtere is none to
which the judicial power extends, from which the
original jurisdiction of the inferior Courts is ex-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

821

eluded by the constitution. Original jurisdiction, 1824.
a rule, is co-exten- Osborn
so far as the constitution gives
•
siVe with the judicial power. We find, in the con- U. 8.Y.
Barn!'.
every
stitution, no prohibition to its exercise, in
case in -which the judicial power can be exercised.
It would be a very bold construction to say, that
this power could be applied in its appellate form
only, to the most important class of cases to which
it isapplicable.
The constitution establishes the Supreme Court,
and defines itsjurisdiction. It enumerates dases
in which its jurisdiction is original and exclusive;
aid then defines that which is appellate, but does
not insinuate, that in any such case, the power cannot be exercised in its original form by Courts of
original jurisdiction. It-is not insinuated, that the
judicial power, in cases dependingon the cbaracter of the cause, cannot be exercised in the-first instance, in.the Courts of the Union, but must first
be exercised in the tribunals of the State; tribunals overwhich the government of the Union has
no adequate control, and which may be closed to
any claim -asserted under a law, of the United
States..
We perceive, then, no ground on which the
proposition can be maintained, that Congress is
incapable of giving the Circuit Courts original jurisdiction, in any case to which the appellate juris-'
diction 6xtends.
We ask, then, if it can be sufficient to exclude
this jurisdiction, that the case involves questions
depending on general principles ? - A cause Inay
depend on'severallquestions of fact aid law. Some

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

v.

U.S. Bank.

of these may depend on the construction of a law
of the United States; others on prin'ciples unconnected with that law. If it be a sufficient foundation for jurisdiction, that the title or right set up
by the party, may be defeated by one construction
of the constitution or law of the United States,
and sustained by the opposite construction, provided the facts necessary to support the action be
made out, then all the other questions must be decided as incidental to this, which gives that jurisdiction. Those other questions cannot atrest the
proceedings. TJnder this construction, the judicial power of the Union extends effectively and
beneficially to that most important class of cases,

which depend on the character ot the cause, On
the opposite construction, the judicial power never can be extended to a whole case, as expressed
by the constitution, but to those parts of cases only
which present the particular question involving
the construction of the constitution or the law.
We say it never can be extended to the whole
case, because, if the circumstance that other points
are involved in it, shall disable Congress from authorizing the Courts of the Union to take jurisdiction of the original cause, it equally disables Con,gress from authorizing those Courts to take jurisdiction of the whole cause, on an ap!eal, and thus
will be restricted to a single question in that cause ;
and words obviously intended to secure to those
who claim rights under the constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States, a trial in the federal
Courts, Will be restricted to -the insecure remedy
of an appeal upon an insulated point, after it has

OF THE UNITED STATES.

received that shape which may be given to it by 1824.
"a'
another tribunal, into which he is forced against 'Osbom
V.
hiswill.
We think, then, that when a question to which U* S'Bank.)
the judicial power of the Union. is extended by
the constitution, forms an ingredient, of the original cause, it is in the power of Congress to give
the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of that cause, although other questions of fact or of law may be
involved in it.
The case of the Bank is, we think, a very strong
case of this description. The charter of incorporation not only creates it, but gives it every faculty which it possesses. The power to acquire
rights of any description, to transacf business of
any description, to make contracts of any description, to sue on those contracts, is given and -measured by its charter, and that charter is a law of
the United States. This being can acquire no
right, make no contract, bring no suit, which is not
authorized by a law of the United States. It is
not only itself the mere creature of a law, but all
its actions.and all its rights"are dependant on the
same law. Can a being, thus constituted, have a
case which does'not arise literally, as well as substantially, under the law ?
Take the case of a contract, which is put as the.
strongest against the Bank.
When a Bank sues, the first question which presents v itself, and which lies at the foundation of
the cause, is, has this legal entity a right to sue ?
Has it a right to come, not into this Court particularly, Put into any Court? This depends on a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. law of the United States. The next 4uestiow is,
Osboru, has this being a right to make this particular conV.
tract ? If this question be decided in the negative,
U.S.Bank. the cause is determined against the plaintiff; and
this qtftion, too, depends entirely on a law ortho
United States. These are important questions,
and they exist in every possible case. The right
to sue, if decided once, is decided for ever; but
the power of Congress was exercised antecedently
to the first decision on that right, and if it was
constitutional then, it cannot cease to be, so, because th- particular question 'is decided. 'Itmay
be revived at the will of the party, and most probably would be renewed, were the tribunal to be

changed. But the question respecting the right
to make a particular contract, or to acquire a particular property, or to sue on account of a particular injury, belongs to every particular case, and
may be renewed in every case. The quostiont
forms an original ingredient in every cause.
Whether it be in fact relied on or not, in the defence,-it is still a part of the cause, and mny be relied on. The right of the plaintiff to sue, cannot
depend on the defence which the defendant may
choose to set up. His right to sue is anterior to
that defence, and must depentd on the state of
things when the action is brought. The questions
which the case involves, then, must determine-its
character, whether those questions be made in the
cause or riot.

The appellants say, that the case arises on the
contract; but the validity of the contract depends
on a law of the United States, and the plaintiff ]a

OF THE'UNITED STATES.

compelled, in every case, to show its validity. 1824.
The case arises emphatically under the law. The
act of Congress is its foundation. Tie contract
could never have been made, but under the au- U S.Bmk.
thority of that-act. The *actitself is the first ingredient in the case, is its origin, is that from
which every other part arises. That other questions may also arise, as the execution 'of the contract, or its performance, cannot change the case,
or give it any other origin than the charter of incorporation. The action still originates in, and is
sustained by, that charter.
The clause giving the Bank a right to sue in the
Circuit Courts of the United States, sjands on the
same principle with the acts authorizing officers of
the United States who sue in their own names, to
sue in the Courts of the United States. The Postmastbr General, for example, cannot sue under
that part of the constitution which gives jurisdiction to the federal Courts, in consequence of the
character of the party, nor is he authorized to sue
by the Judiciary Act. He comes into the Courts of
the Union under the authority of an act of Congress, the constitutionality of which can only be
sustained by the admission that his suit is a case
arising under a law of the United States. If it be
said, that it is such a case, because -a law of the
United States authorizes the contract, and authorizies the suit, the same reasons exist with respect to a suitg brought by the Bank. That, too,
is such. a case ; because. that suit, too, is itself au.thorized, and 'is brought on a contract authorized
by a law of the Uited States. It depends absoVOL. IX,

104

CASES IN'TII. SUPREME COURT

1824.
.- ..
.

ltelyon bat law, 'and cannot exist a mpmont with.out its authority.,
If it be said,.tat; a,Buit.-brought by the Bank
U.s. Bax. may depend in fict altogethvr on huestibns unconnected with- any lawAof the United States,.it is
eaaily true, 'With r~spect. to suits brought by, the
Postmaster General. The -plea in bar' may be
payment,if the.uit be brought on a bond, or nonassumpait, if.it be.,brought on an open account,
and- no other question- may arise" than what. resp"cts" the complete 'discharge of the, demand.
Yet-the constitutionality of the act authorizing. the
Postmaster. Genoral to sue in the Courts of'the
United Stateqj ha*s never been drawn into qiiestiom.
It is suatairedAsingry by an act of Congress, otan ding on that construction of'the constitution wviQh
asserts the right of the Legislature to give. original.
jaidiction. to the Circuit Courts, in. cases arising
utder a lawof the Ujnited States,
. The etase-in the patent-lawy-apthbrihg,Voils
in thd Cirtuit Courts, staids,..we.,think, W the
iamne principle.'' Such a suitis a case.ariqt'hg.under- a law of the UnitedStates. . Yet the defendant ay not, at the trial, question.. the validity o$
the patent4 or make-any ppin.t which requires .the
con structibn of an 'a1t bf: Congress.' Heway rest
his defence exclusivelyon thefaet, that he has not
violated the right of' the plaintiffi, Thatthls fact
beone the sole question made in the cause, cunnot oust the jurisdictionu of the Court, or 'establish
the position .that the-case does not arise under a
law of the United States.
It is said,'that a clear distinction existq between

OF THE UNITED STATES.

827

the party abd the cause; that the party may origi- 1824.
nate under a law with which the cause has no con- Osboun
nexion; and that Congress may, with the same
V.
propriety, give a naturalized citizen, who is the t 's ' a
mere creature of a law, a right to sue in the Courts
of the United States, as give that right to the Bank.
This distinction is not denied ; and, if the act of
Congress was -a.
simple act .of incorporation, and
contained nothing more, it might be entitled to
great consideration.' But the act does not stop
with incorporating the Bank: It proceeds to bestow upon the being it has made, all the factrlties
and capacities which that being possesses. Every
act of the Bank grows out of this law, and is -tested.byit. To use the language of the constitution,
every act of the Bank arises out of this law.
A.naturalized citizen is indeed made a citizea
under an act of Congress. but the actdoes not proceed to give, to regulate, -or to prescribe his capacities. He becomes a member of the society, possessing- all the rights of a native citizen, and
standing, in the view of the constitution, on the
footing of a native. The constitution does not' authorize-Congress to enlarge or abridge those rights.
'I he simple power of the -national Legislature, is
to prescribe a uniform rule of naturalization, and
the exercise of this power, exhausts it, so far as respects the individual.'
The con.stitution. then
takes him up, and, among other rights, extends to
him the capacity of suing in the -Courts.of the
United States, precisely under the same circumstances under which a native might sue. He is

"

028.
1824.

k1HE SUPREME COURT.
AsEs iN
distinguishable in nothiig from a native citizen,

exc~pt.so far as the constitutibn makes the dieThe law makes none.
U.S.Bank.
There is, thbn, no resemblance between the act
incorporatiig-the Bank, and the general naturaliiation law.Upon thebest consideration we have been able
to bestow on this subject, we are of opinion, that
the clause in the act of incorporation, enabling
theBank to sue in the Courts of the United States,
is consistent with the'constitution, and to be obeyed in all Courts.
We -will now proceed to consider the merits of
the cause.The appellants contend, that the decree of the
Circuit Court is erroneous1 .Beoause no auth6rity, is shown in the record,
from the Bank, authorizing the institution or prosecution of the suit.
2. ,Because, as against the defendant, Sullivan,
there are neither proofs nor admissions, sufficient
-to sustain the decree.
S3, "Because, upon equitable principles, the case
made in the bill, does not warrant a decree against
either Osborn or Harper, for the .amount of coin
and notes in the bill ispecified to have passed
through their hands.
. 4. Because, the defendants- are decreed
tct
pay interest upon the coin, When it'was not in the
,power of Osborn or Harper, and was stayed in the
bands of Sullivan by injunction.
5. Because, the oase made in the bill does not
S.

tinction.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

warrant the interference of a Court of Chancery,
by injunction.
6. Because, if any case. is made in the bill

829
1824.
V.

proper for the interference 6f a Co'urt of Chancery,

itis against the State of Ohio, in which case the
Circuit Court could not exercie. jurisdiction.
7. Because, the decree assumes that the Bank
of the United. States is not subject to the taxing
power of the State of Ohio, and decides that the

law of Ohio, the execution of which is enjoined, is
unconstitutional.
These points will be considered in the order in
which they are made.
1. .It is admitted that a corporation can only
6w ofatfara
-- warrant
appear by attorney, and it is also idmitted, that tomeyootr
the attorney must receive the authority of the cor- authow.,
an
t' enableorto
IILattorney
poration to enable him to represent it. It is ot
admitted that this' authority must be under seal. "ctor to ProOn the contrary, the principle decided in the cases
of the Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, &c. is
supposed to applyto this case, and to show that the
seal may be dispensed With. It is, however, unnecessary to pursue this inquiry, since the real
quqstion is, whether. the non-appearance of the
power in- the Tecord be error, not whether the
nower was insuffiient in itself.
Natural persons may appear in Court, either by
themselves, or by their attorney. But no man has
a right to appear as the attorney of another; without the authority of that other. In ordinary cases,
the authority must be produced, because there is,
in the nature of things, nbprima facie evidence
that one marn is in fact the attorney of another.

3o
. 1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The case of an attorney at law, an attorney for
"the purpose of representing another in Court, and
U.
.
prosecuting or defending a' suit in his
name, is
U. S.Bank. somewhat different.. The power must
indeed exist,
but its production has not been considered as indispensable. Ceirtain gentlemen, first licensed by
government, are admitted by order of Court, to
stand at the bar, with a general capacity to represent all -he.suitors in the Court. The ap _earanco
of any one of these gentlemen in a cause, has always been-received as evidence of his authority;
and no Additional, evidence, -so far as we are informed, has ever been required. . This practice,
We believe, has existed from the first establishment
of our Cdurts, and no departure from it has been
made in.
those of any Stite, or of- the Union.
The argument supposes some'distinction, in this
particular, between a naiural perspn and a corporation; but the Court can perceive no reason for
this distinction. A corporation, it is true, can,
appear only by attorney, ivhile. a natural person
may appear for himself. But when he waives this
privilege, and el'ects *to'appear by attorney, no
reason is perceived \vhy the same ovidence should
not be required, that the individual professing to
represent him has authorit "to do so, which would
be required if he were incapable of appearing in
person. The universal and familiar practice,-then,
of permitting gentlemen of' the profession to appear-without producing a warrant of attorney,
forms (. rule, which is -as applicable in reason, to
their appeariance for a corporation, as for a'natural
,persoli; Were it even otherwise, the piactice is

OF THE UN1TED STATES.

as uniform and as ancient, .with regard to corpo- I824.
rations, as to natural. persons. No case has ever
occurred, so far as we are:informed., in which the
V.
production of a. warrant ofattorney has been sup- U.S.BA,
posed-a necessary preliminary to the appearance
of a corporation, either. as phidintiff or defendant,
by a gentleman -admitted to the bar of the C'urt.
The usage, then, is as full authority for the case of
a corporation, as of an individual. If this usage
ought to be altered,.it .-should.be. a.. rule to operate
prospectively, not by -thereversal of a decree pronounced in conformity with the general course of
the Court, in.a case in which no doubt of the le,
gality of the appearaice had ever been suggested.
In the statutes of jeofails and aimendment, which
respect this subjec, the Aon-appearance of a warrant.of attorney in the record, has generally been
treated as matter of.form.; and the 32d section of
the Judiciary Act -may-very well be construed to
comprehend this fboial defect in its general termk,
in a case ofl w. No reason is perceived why.the
Courts of Chancery should be mbre. rigid in ei-.
acting..be exhibition of : warrant-of attorney than
a Cou4rtof laws and, since .the. practice has, in
fact, been-the same in. both. Courts, an. ppellate
Cqurt ought, we think, to be governed in both by
the same rule.
_w
2. The second .point is one on which me pro- oTh
ductiveness'of any decree in favyur-of -the plain- dao wbonev
* dence agant
tifls most probably depends; for, if the claim be aothe.
not satipfied with t e money found in the poss.esain oflivan. it is a hest, uqcertain" whether

852

CASES IN THE.SUPREME COURT

1824.' a fund, out of which it can be satisfied, is to be
found elsewhere.
Ir.
In inquiring whether the proofs or admissions in
U.SanL.the cause be sufficient to chare Sullivan, the Court
will look into the answer of Currie, as well ,sinto
tbat of Sullivan. In-objection to this course, it- is
said, that the answer of one defendant cannot'be
read against.anothei. ' This is generally, but not
universally, true. Where ne de.fendantaucceeds
to another, so that the right of the one devolves
on te other, and they become privies in estate,
the rule-is not admitted to apply. Thus; if an
ancestor die, pending a suit,.and the proceedings.
•be revived agaipst his-heir,, or if-a suit be revived,
against an executor or administrator, the answer
of the deceased person,'- 'or any other evidence,

establishing any fact against him, might be read
albo against the person who succeeds to him. So,
a pen&ente lite purchaser is bound by the decree,
without being even made a party to the suit; afortiori,,he.would,if made a party, be bound by the
testimony taken against the vender.
In this case, if Currie received the money taken
out of the Bank, and passed it over to Sullivan,
the establishment of this fact, in a suit against
Currie, would seem t. bind his:successor, Sullivan,
both as a privy in estate, and as a person getting
possession pendente lite,, if the original suit had
been instituted-against Curris.' We can perceive
-no difference, so far as respects the answer of
Currie. between the case supposed, *and the cae
asit stands. If Currie, who was-the predecessor
of Sullivan, admits that he received the mioney of

OF THE-UNfITED STATES.'

833

the Bank, tfte fact. seems to bind all those coming 1824.
in under him, a completely as it binds himself.
This, therefore, appears to the Court tO. be a case
V.
in which, upon principle, the answer ef Currie U S.sank.
inay be read.
His answer states, that on or about the 19th or
20th of September, 18191 the defendant, Harper,
delivered to him, in coin and notes, the sum ot
98,000 dollars, which he was informed, aind'believed to be the money levied on the Bank as a
tax, in-pursuance of he law of the State of Ofiio.
After consulting counsel on the question, whether
he ought to retain this sum Within his individul
control, or pass it to the credit ofthe State on the
books of the tii'asury, he adopted the latter course,
but rietained itcarefully in a trunk, separate from the
other funds ofthe treasury. The money afterwards"
came to the hands of Sullivan, the gentleman who
succeeded him as treasurer, fnd gave him a recedipt for all the money in the tieasury, including
this, Which was still kept separate from the'rest.
We think no reasonable doubt can be entertained, but that- the 98,000 dollars, delivered by Harper to Currie, were taken out of the Bank. Currie understood and believed it tobe the fact. When
did he so understand and believe it? At the time
when he -received the money. And from whom
did he derive his understandin'g and belief? The
inference is irresistible, that he derived it from his
own knovwledge of oircumstances, for they were of
publicnotoriety, and from the information of Harper. In the necessary couse of things, Harper,
who was sent, as Currie must have known, on this
VOL. IX.

105

834
1824.
Osborn.
U. S. Bank.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

business, brings with hini to the treasurer'of the
State, a sum of money, which, by the law, was to
b6
taken out of the Bank, pays him 98,000
dollars

thereof, which the treasurer receives and keeps, as
being money taken from the Bank, and so enters
it on the books of the treasury. In a suit brought
against Mr. Currie for this money, by the State of
Ohio, if he had failed to account for it, could any
person doubt the competency of the testimony t6
charge, him ? We think no mind could hesitate in
such a case.
Currie, then, being clearly in possession of this
money, and clearly liable for it, we are next, to
look into Sullivan's answpi, for-the purpose of inquiritg whether he.admits any facts which show
him to be liable also.
Sullivan denies all personal knowledge of the
transaction; that is, he was not in office when it
took place, and was not present when the money
was-taken oiit of the Bank, or when"it was delivered to Currie. But when he entered the treasury
office, he received this sum of 98,000 dollars, separate from the other money of the treasury, which,
he understood from report, and was informed by
his predecessor, from whom he received it,: was
the money taken out of the Bank. This sum has
remained untouched ever since, from respect to the
injunction awarded by the Court.
We ask, if a rational doubt can -remain on this
subject.
Mr. Currie, as tieasurer of the State of Ohio,
receives 98,000 dollars, as being the amount of a
tax imposed by the Legislature of. that State on

OF TRE" UNITED STATES.
the Bank of theUnited States; enters the same on 182,L
the books of the treasury; and, the legality
of the Osbora
.
act by which the money was levied being quesV.
tioned,.puts it in a trunk, 'and keeps it apart from U.S.BinL
the other money belonging to the public. He resigns his office, and is succeeded by Mr. Sullivan,
to whom he delivers the money, informing him, at
the same time, that it is the money raised from'
the Bank; and Mr. Sullivan continues to keep it
apart, and abstains from the use of it, out of respect to an injunction, fbrbidding him to pay it
away, or in any manner to dispose ofit.- Is.it possible to doubt the identity of this money ?
Even admittingthat the answerof Currie, though
establishing -his liability as to himself, could not
prove even that fact as to Sulliyan ; the answer of
Sullivan is itself sufficient, we think, to charge
him. He admits that these .98,000 dollars were
delivered to him, as being the money. which was
taken out of the Bank, and that he so received it.;
for, he says, he understood this sum.,vas the same
as charged in the bill; that his information was
from report, and from his predecessor; and that
the money has remained untouched, from respect
to the injunction. This declaration, then, is a
part of the fact. The fact, as admitted in his answer, is not simply that he received 98,000 dollars, but that he received 98,000 d6llars, as being
the money taken out of the Bank-the money to
which the writ of injunction applied.
In a common action between two private individuals, such an admission would, at least, be sufficient to throw on the defendant the burthen of

836

-CASES MN THE SUPREME UOURI"

1624. proving that the money, which he acknawledges
O~bor
=
himself to have received and kept as the money of
v.
the plaintiff, was not that which it was declared to
U.S. Bank. be on its delivery.
A declaration, accompanying
the delivery, and constituting a part of it, gives. a
charactei to-the transaction, and is iot to'be placed on the same'footing with a declaration made
by the same person at a different time. The answer of Sullivan, then, .is, inthe opinion of the
Court,.sufficient to show that these 98,000 dollars
were the specific dollars for which this suit wos
brought. This sum having come to his possession with full knowledge of the fact, in a Separate
trunk, unmixed with money, and with notice that
an injunction had been, awarded respecting it, he
would seem to be responsible to the plaintiff for
it, unless he can show sufficient matter to discharge himself.
R.spoosibi3. The next objection is, to the decree against
lity
of the partiesagainst Osborudand Harper, as to whom .the bill was tawhom the Bill
was taken po ken for confessed.
cof ;0.
The bill charges that Osborn employed John
L. Harper to collect the tax, who proceeded by
violence to enter the office of discount' and deposit
at Chilicothe, and forcibly'took therefrom I00,000
dollars in specie and bank notes; and that, at the
time of the seizure, Harper well knew, and was
duly notified, that an injunction.had been allowed,
which money was delivered either to Currie or
Osborn.
So far as respects Harper and Osborn, these
allegations are to be considered as true. If the
act of the Legislature of Ohio, and the official

OF THE'UNITED STATES.

837

character of Osborn, constitete a defenee,4eithr I2
of these defendants are liablg, and the whole de.
cree is erroneous; but if the act be unconstiti
tional and void, it can be no justificationi and .
both these defendants are to be considered as individuals who are amenable to the laws. Considering them, for the present, in this character, the
fact, as made out in the bill, is, that Osborh employed Harper to do an illegal act, and that Harper has done that act; dnd that they are jointly responsible for it, is supposed to be as well settled
as any principle of law whatever.
We think it unnecessary, in this par of the case,
to enter into the inquiry respecting the .effevt of
the injunction. No injunction is necessary to attach responsibility on those who conspire to do an
illegal act, which this is, if not justified by the authority under which it was done.
4. The next objection is, to the allowance of not be decreed
wt
interest on the coin, which constituted a part ofthe agains a p.rsum decreed to the complainants. Had the comwh
join,
is uing.
Court
the intervention of
. .
u~. a ,u
utl,of
JrLom
plainants, without
equity, resorted to their legal remedy for the injury sustained, their right to principal and interest
would have stood on eqdal grdund. The same
rule would be adopted in a Court of equity, had
the subject been left under the control of the party
in possession, while the right was in litigation.
But the subject was not left under the control of
the party. The Court itself interposed, and forbade the person, in whose 1ossession the property
was, to make any use of it. This order having
been obeyed, places the defendant in the same

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

situation, so far as respects interest, as if the Court
had taken the money into its own custddy, The

V.

defendant, in obeying the mandate of the Court,

U.S. 3ank becomes its instrument, as entirely as the Clerk
of
the Courtwould have been, had the inoneybuefi
placed in his hands. It does not nppearreagonabe, that a decree which proceeds upon the idea,
that the injunction of the Court was valid, ought
to direct'interest to be paid on the money whioh
that injunction restrained the defendant from
using.
Case
,r-de
5. The fifth objection to the decree is, thTatthe
ithe bill, proper for an in- casemade in the bill does not warrant the ifft'r-

junction, and

other equita.

ference of a Court of Chancery.
In examining this question, it is proper that the

Court should consider the real case, and its actual
circumstances. The original bill prays for in injunction against Ralph, Osborn, Auditor of the
State of Ohio, to restrain him from- exiu'ting a
laW'of that State, to the great oppression and injury of the complainants, and to the destruction
of rights and privileges conferred on them by their
charter, and by the constitution of the Onited
States. The true inquiry is, whether aninjunction
can be issued to restrain a person, who is a State
officer, from performing any official act enjoined
by statute; and whether a Court of equity can
decree restitution, if the act be performed. In
-pursuing this inquiry, it must be assum6d for the
present, that the act is unconstitutional, and furnishes no authority or protection to the officer who
is about to proceed under it. This must be assumed, because, in tho arrangement of his argu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment, the counsel who opened.the cause, has cho- 1824,
sen to reserve that.poiht for the last, and to contend that, -though the law be void, no case is made
v.
out- against the.defendants. We suspend, also,. U.S. Bfk.
the consideration of the question, whether the interest of the State of Ohio, as disclosed io the
bill, .shows a want of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court, which ought to have arrested its proceedings. That question, too, is reserved -by the appellants, and will be subsequently considered.
The sole inquiry, for the present, is, whether, strip.
ping the case of these objections, -the plaintis
below were entitled to relief in a Court of equity,
against the defendants, and to the protection of
an injunction. The appellants expressly waive
the extravagant proposition, that a void act can af&
ford protection to the person who executes it, and
admits the liability of the defendants to the plaintiffs, to the extent of the injury sustained, in an
action at law. The question, then, is reduded to
the sidgle inquiry, whether the case is cognizable
in a,-Court of equity. If it is, the decree must be
affirmed, so'far as it is supported by the evidence
in the cause.
. The appellants.allege, that the original bill contans no allegation which can justify the application for an injunction, and treat the declarations
of Ralph Osb6rn, the Auditor, that he should execute-the law, as the light anti frivolous threats of
air individual, that he would commit an ordinary
trespass;:-: But surely this is not the -point of view
in-which the application for an injunction is to be
cdnsidered. The*Legislature of Ohio had passed

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.

a law for the avowed purpose of expelling the
Bank from the State; and had made it the duty of
V.
the Auditor to execute it as a ministerial officer.
S.B.nk. He had declared that he would perfornl this duty.
The law, if executed, would unquestionably effect
its object, and would deprive the Bank of its
chartered privi'eges, so far as they were to be exercised in th at State. It must expel the Bank from
the State; and this is, we think, a conclusion
which the Court might rightfully.draw from the law,
itself. That the declarations of the Auditorswould
be fulfilled, did not admit of reasonable doubt.
It was to be expected, that a person continuing to
hold an office, would perform a duty enjoined by
his govenment, which was completely within his
power., This duty was to be repeated until the
Bank should abandon the exercise of its chartered
rights.
To treat tnis as a common casual trespass,
would be to disregard entirely its true character
and substantial m'erits.' The application to the
Court was, to interpose its writ of injunction, to
protect the Bank, not from the casual trespass of
an individual, who might not perform the act he
threatened, but from the total destruction of its
franchise, of its chartered .privileges, to far as respected the State of Ohio. It was morally certain,
thitt the Auditor would proceed to execute the law,
and it wasmorally certain, that the effect must be
the expulsion of the Bank from the State. An
annual ckarge of 100,000 dollars, would. more than
absorb all the advantages of. the privilege, and
would consequently annul it.

OF .THE biJED STArTES.

6A1

The appellants admit, that injunctions are of- I82A.
ten awarded for the prdtection of parties in the Osborn
enjoyment.of a franchise; but deny that one has
V.
ever been granted in such a case as this. But, al- U.S. Bua.
though the precise case may never have occurred,
if the same principle applies, the same remedy
ought to be afforded. The interference of the
Court in this class of cases, has most frequently
been to restrain a person from violating an exclusive privilege, by palticipating in 'it. But if, instead of a continued'participation in the privilege,
the attempt be to disable the party from using it,
is ndct the reason for the interference of the Court
rather strengthened than weakened? Had tho
privilege of the Bank been exclusive, the argument
admits that any other person, or company, might
have been enjoined, according to the regular
course of the Court .of Chancery, from using or
exercising the same business. Why would such
person or company have been enjoined? To ireventa permanent injury from being done to the party entitled to the franchise or privilege; which injury, the appellants say, cannot be estimated in
damages. It requires no.argument to prove, that
the injury is greater, if the whole privilege be destroyed, than if it be divided; and, so far as respects the estimate of damages, although precise
accuracy may not be attained, yet a reasonable
calculation may be made of the amount of the injury, so as to satisfy the Court and Jury., It will
not be pretended, that, in such a case, an action at
law could not be maintained, or that the materials
do not 'exist on which a verdict might be
VOL. IX.

106

CASES IN THE SIZPREME COURT

1824.

found, and a judgment rendered. -. But in this,
and marty other cases of continuing injuries, as in
Osbocn
V. the case of repeated ejectments, a Court of ChanU. S.BUnk. cery will interpose. The injury done, by denying'
to the Bank the exercise of its franchise in the
State of Ohio, is as difficult to calculate, as the in.
jury.done by participating in an exclusive privilege, . The single act of levying the tax in the first
instance, is the cause of an action at law ; but that
affords a remedy only for the single act, and is not
equal to the remedy in Chancery, which prevents
ito repetition, and protects the privilege. Thesame .conservative principle, which- induces ,the
Court to interpose its authority for the protection
of exclusive privileges, to prevent the commission
of waste, even in some cases of trespass, and in
maany cases of destruction, will, we think, apply to
.this. Indeed, trespass is destruction, where there
is po privity of estate.
If the State of Ohio could have been mzade a
prty defendant, it can scarcely be denied, that
this would be a strong case for an injunction.
The objection is, that, as the real party cannot
be brought before .the Cturt,. a suit cannot be
sustained against the agents of that party; and cases have been cited, to show that a Court of Chanc ry will not make a decree, unless all those, who
are substantially interested, be made parties to
the suit.
This is certainly true, where it is in the power
of the plaintiff to make them parties ; but if the
person who is the real principal, the person who .is
the true source of the mischief, by whose power
and for whose advantage it is done, be himself

OF THE UNITED STATES.

above the law, be exempt from all judicial pro- 1824.
cess, it would be subversive of the best established O'buln
V.
principles, to say that the laws could not afford
the same remedies against the agent employed in U* . nk
doing the wrong, which they would afford against
him, could his principal be joined in the suit. It
is admitted, that the privilege of the principal is
not communicated to the agent; for 'the appellants
acknowledge that an .action at law would lie
against the agent, in which full compensation
ought to be made for the injury. It being admitted, then, that the agent is not privileged by his
connexion with his prinwtipal, that lie is responsible for his own act, to the full extent of tho iinjury,
whyshould not the preventive puwer of the Court
also be applied to him? *Why may it not restrain
him from the commission of a %wrong,whic it
would punish him for committing ? We ptJt out
of view the character of the principal as a sovereign
State, because that is made a distinct point, and
consider the question singly as respects the want
of parties. Now, if the party before the Court
would be responsible for the whole injury, why
may he not be restr'ained from its commission, if
no other party can be brought before the Court ?
The appellants found their distinction on the legal principle, that all trespasses are several as
well as joint, without inquiry into the validity of
this reason, if true. We ask, if it be true ? Will
it be said, that the action of trespass is the only
remedy given for this injury? Can it be denied,
that an action on the case, for money had and received to the plaintiff's use, might be maintained .

944-

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

i824.

We think it cannot; and if such an ation might
reason suggests itself
Osborn be maintained, no plusible
•
V.
to us, for the opinion, that tn injunction may not
,S. Bank. be awarded t6 restrain the agentl with aomuch propriety as it might be awarded to restrain the principal, could.the principal be made a party.
We think the reason for an injunction is much
stronger in the actual, than it would be in the supposed case. In the regular course of things, the
agent would pay over the money immediately to
his principal, and would thus place it beyond the
reach of the injured party, since his principal 'i8
not amenable to the law. The remedy for the injury, would'bd against the agent only; and what
agent could Milake compensation for such an injtry?
The remedy would have niothing real in it. It
would be a remedy in name only, not'in substance.
This alone would, in our opinion, be a sufficient
reason for a Court of equity The injury would,
in fact, be irreparable.; and the cases are innurnerable, in Which injunctions are awarded. on this
ground.
But, .were it even to be admitted, that the injunction, Jn the first instance, was improperly
awarded, and that the original bill iould. not be
maintained, that would mnot,. we think,. materially
affect the case. An. amended and sup lemental
bill,, making fiew paitiav, has been filed in the
cause, and on thatbill, with the proceedings under
it, the decree. was profiounced. The question is,
-whether. that bill .and those proceedings support
the decree.
The case they make,, is;:_hat the money and

OF THE UNITED STATE5.

notes of the plaintiffs, in the Circuit Court, have
been taken from them without authority, and are

8 11rl

1824.
UJsborn

in possession of one of the defendants, who keeps
S.
them separate and apart from all other money.und U.S* Ban".
notes. It is admitted, that this defendant would
be liable for the whole amountin an action at law;
but it .is denied that he is liable in a Court of
equity.
We think it a case in which a Court of equity
ought to interpose, and that there are several
grounds on which its jurisdiction may be placed.
One, which appears to be ample for the purpose,
is, that a Court will always interpose, to prevent
the transfer of a specific article, which, if transferred, will be lost to the owner. Thus, thd holder of negotiabie .securities, indorsed in the usual
manner, if he has acquired them fraudulently, will
be enjoined from negotiating them; because if
negotiated,, the maker or indorser must pay them.
Thus, too, a transfer of stock will be restrained
in favour of a personi having the" real property in.
the article. In these cases, -the injured party
would have his remedy at law; and the probabili-.
ty that this remedy would be adequate, is stronger
in the cases put in the books, than in this, where
the sum is so greatly beyond the capacity of an
ordinary agent to pay. But it is the province of a
Court of equity, in such eases, to arrest the injury,
and prevent the wrong. The remedy ismore beneficial and complete, than the law can giie. The
money .ofthe Bank, if mingled with the other- mo-

- I Ma 14, 205,

CASES IN THE SUPREME C (lU'

1824.

ney in the treasury, and put into circulation, would.
be
totally lost to the owners; and the reason for
Obborn
V. an injunction is, at least, as strong in such a case,
tenae
V. S. Bank. as
as in the case efa negotiable note.
The exep6. We proceed now to the 6th point made by
tion of the
State froo, s,,- the appellants, which is, that if any case is made
ahili'y, no ob-

jectiu,
to the
proceedings
a- in the bill, pro'per for the interference of a Court
ga,t its

of-

cire,- n

U,.n-

cuting an
constitutional

of Chancery, it is against the State of Ohio, in
which case the Circuit Court could not exercisc
jurisdiction.
The bill is brought, it is said, for the purpose of
protecting the Bank in the exercise of a franchise
granted by a law of the United States, which
franchise the State of Ohio asserts a right to invade, and is about to invade. Ii prays the aid of'
the Court to restrain the officeys ofthe State from
executing the law. It is, then, a controversy between the Bank and the State of Ohio. The interest of the State is direct and immediate, not
consequential. The process of the Court, though
not directed against the State by name, acts directly upon it, by restraining its officers. The
process, therefore, is substantially, though 'not in
form, against the State, and the Court ought not
toproceed without making the State a party. If
this cannot be .done, the Court cannot take jurisdiction of the cause.
The full pressure of this argument is felt, and
the difficulties it presents are acknowledged. The
direct interest of the State in the suit, as brought,
is admitted; and, had it been in the power of the
Bank to make it a party, perhaps no decree ought
to have been pronounced in the cause, until the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

647

State was before the Court. But this was not in 1824.
the power of the Batik. The eleventh amend- Osborn
meet of the constitution has exempted'a State
v.
from the suits of.citizens of other States, or aliens; U.S.Bank.'
-and the very difficult question is to be decided,.
whether, in such a case, the Court may act upon
the agents employed by the State, and on the property ib their hands.

Before we try this question by-the constitution,
it may not be time misapplied, if we pause for a
moment, and reflect on the relative situation of the
Union with its members, should the objection prevail.
A denial of jurisdiction forbids all inquiry into
the nature of the case. It applies to cases perfectly clear in themselves; to cases where the government is in the exercise of its best established
and most essential powers, as well as to those
which. may be deemed questionable. It asserts,
that the agents of a State, alleging the authority of
a ia7v void in itself, because repugnant to The .constitution, may- arrest the execution of any law in
the United States.. It maintains, that if 'aState
shall impose a fine or penalty on.any person employed in the execution of; any law of the Unite.
States, it may levy that fihe or penalty by a ministerial officer, without'the sanction even of its
own Courts ; and that the individual, though he
- perceives the approaching danger, can obtain no
protection.:from the judicial department of the government. , The carrier of the mail, the collector
of the revenue, the marshal of a district, the recruiting officer, may all be inhibited, under ruinous

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'

flduties;
Osborn

v.
U. S. Bank.

penalties, from the performance of their respectivo
the warrant of' a ministerial officer may

authorize the collection of these penalties, and the
person thus obstructed in the performance of his
duty, may indeed resort to his action for damages,
after the infliction of the injury, but'cannot avail
himself of the preventive justice of the notion to
protect him in the performance of his duties.
Each member of the Union is capable, at its will,
of attacking the nation, of arresting its progress at
every step, of acting vigorously and effectually in
the. execution of its designs, while the nation
stands naked, stripped of its defensive armour,
and incapable of shielding its agent or executing
its laws, otherwise than by proceedings which are
to take place after the mischief is perpetrated,
and which must often be ineffectual, from the inability of the agents to make compensation.
These are said to be extreme cases; but the
case at bar, had it been put by way Qf illustration
in argment, might have been termed an extreme case ; and, if,a penalty on a revenue officer,
for performing his duty, be more obviously wrong
than a penalty on the Bank, it is a difference in
degree, not'in principle. Public sentiment would
be more shocked by the infliction of a penalty on
a public officer for the performance of his duty,
than by the infliction of this penalty on a 'Bank.
which, while carrying on the fiscal operation of
the government, is also transacting its own business; but, in. both caies, the. officer Aving the
penalty acts under a .void authority, and the power

OF THE UNITED STATES.

u"49

to restrain him is denied as positively in the one as 1824.
in the other.
Osborn
The distinction between any extreme case, and
V.
S.Bank.
U.
any
indeed,
if,
occurred,
that which has actually
difference of principle can be supposed to exist
between them, disappears, when considering the
question of jurisdiction; for, if the Courts of the
United States -cannot rightfully protect the agents
'who execute every law authorized by the constitution, from the direct action of State agents in the
collection of penalties, they cannot rightfully protect those who execute an , law.
The question, then, is, whether the constitution
of the Untited States has provided a tribunal which
can peacefully and fightfully protect those who are
employed in carrying into execution the laws of
the Union, from the atteiapts of a particular State
to resist the execution of those laws..
The State of'Ohio denies the existence of this
power, .and contends, that no preventive proceedings whatever, or proceedings -against the very
property which mayhave been seized by the agent;
of a State, can be sustained against such agent,
because they Would be.' substantially against the
State itself, in violationi of the 11th amendment
of the constitution.
That the Courts of the Union cannot entertdih
a suit broughf against a State by an alien, or the
citizen of another -State, is not to be controverted.
Is a suit, brought against an individual, for any
cause. Whatever, a suit against a State, in th6
ses.e of the ronstitution?
SVoL. IX.
107.

CASF-S IN TIlE SUPREME COURT
18 2 4).
Osborn

The I lth-amendment is the limitalion of a
~ power supposed to be gt:autcd in the original in-

V.
strument; and to understand acdurately the extent
U.S.Bk. of the linitation, it seems proper to. define the

power that is limited.
. The words of the constitution, so far as they
respect this question, are, "The judicial, power
shall extend to controversies between two or more
States, between a State and. citizens of another
State, and between a State and foreign states, citize.ns, or subjects."
A subsequent clause distributes the power proviously granted, and assigns to the Supreme Court
original jurisdiction iii those cases in which " a
•State 'shall be a par.ty."The words of 'the 11 th amendment are, "The
judicial power of the United States shall not be
construed to extend to any suit in law oi' equity,
commenced or prosecuted.against one of the Unifed States, by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign state."
The Bank of. the United States contends, that
in all cases in "which jurisdiction depends on the
character of the party, reforencq is made to the
party on the record, not to one who may be interested; but is not shown by the record 'to be a
party.
The appellants admit, that the.jurisdiction of
the Court is not ousted by any incidental or consequential interest, which a State may have in the
decision to be made, but is to be considered as a
party.where the decision- acts directly and immediately upon the State, through its officers.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

If this question were to be determined on the
authority of English decisions, it is believed that
no case can be adduced, -where any person has

1824.
v.

been considered as a party, who is not made so in U.S.Bank.

the record. But th Court will'not review those
decisions, because it is thought t question growing out of the constitution of the United States,
rcquires rather an attentive consideration of the
words of that instrument, than of the decisions of
analogous questions by the Courts of any other
country.
Do the provisions, then, of the American constitution, respecting controversies to which a State
may be a party, extend, on a fair construction of
that instrument, to cases'in which -the State is not
a party on the record ?
The first in the enumeration, is a controversy,
between two or more States.
There are not many questions- in which
aLState
would.be supposed, to take a deeper or more immediate interest, than in those wbich decide on
the extent of her territory.: Yet the constitution,
not considering the State as a party 'to such contioversies, if not plaintiff.or.defendant.on the record, hab expressly.given jurisdiction in thpse between citizens claiming lands under grants of
different States, If each State, in consequence of
tlie-influence of a decision on her boundary, had.
been considered, by the framers of the constitution,-as a"party to that controversy, the express
grant of jurisdiction would have been useless.
The grant of it certainly proves, that the constitu-

352

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

tion does not consider the State as a party in such

Osborn

a case.

V.

U.S.Bank.

Jurisdiction is expressly granted, in those cases
only where citizens of the same State claim lands
tinder grants of different States. If the claimants
be citizeis of different States, the Court takes jurisdiction for that reason. Still, the right of the
State-to grant, is the essential point ih dispute;
and in that poinit the State is deeply interested.
If that interest converts the State into a party,
there is an end of the cause ; and the constitution
will be construed to forbid the Circuit -Courts to
take cognizance of questions to which it was
thought necessary expressly to extend their jurisdiction, even when the controversy arose between
citizens
of the same State.
We are
aware, that the application of these
cases may be denied, because the title of the State
comes on incidentally and the appellants admit
the jurisdiction of the Court, whef'e its judgment
does not act directly upon the property or intorests of the Statd ; but we deem6d it of some importance to show, that the framers of the constitution contemplated the distinction' between cases
in which a State was interested, and those in
which it was a party, and made no provision for
a cate ofinterest, Without being a party' on the record.
In cases where a State is a party on the iecord,
the question of jurisdiction is decided by inspection.
If.jurisdiction depend; not on this' plain
fact, but -on the interest. of tid State, what rule
has the' constitution" given, :by whiclh this interest

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is to be measured? If no rule be given, is it to 1824.
be settled by the Court ? If• so, the curious ano- O09born
maly is presented, of a Court examining the whole
T.
testimony of a cause, inquiring into, and deciding U.S.-an!,.
on, the extent of a State's interest, without having
a right to exercise any jurisdiction in the case.
Can this inquiry be made without the exercise of
jurisdiction ?
The next in the enumeration, is a controversy
between a State and the citizens of another State.
.Can thfs case arise, if the State be not a party
on the. record ? If it can, the question recurs,
whast degree of interest shall be sufficient to change
the parties, and arrest the proceedings against the
individual ? -Controversies respecting boundary
have lately existed between Virginia and Tennessee, betwebn Kentucky and Tennessee, and now
exist between New-York and New-Jersey. Suppose,while such a controversy is pending, the collecting officer of one State should seize property
for taxes belonging to a, ian who supposes himself to reside in the dther State, and who seeks
redress i the federal Court.of that State in which
the officer resides. The interest of the State is
.obvious. .Yet it is admitted, that in such a case
the action would lie, because the officer might be
treated as a trespasser, and the verdict and judgment against, him would not act directly on the
property of the State. That it would not so act,
may, perhaps, depend on -circumstances. The
officer may retain the amount Of the taxes in his
hands, and, on the proceedings oftheState against
him, may plead in ba--tlie judgment of a Court-of

854
1824.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

competent jurisdiction. If this plea ought to be
Z certain that it
Osborn Ssustained, and it is far from being
V. ought not, the judgment so pleaded would have
acted directly on the revenue of the State,'in the
hands of its officer.
And yet the argument admits, that the action, in such a case, would be sustained. But, suppose, in such a case, the party
conceiving himself to be injured, instead of bringma an action sounding in damages, should sue for
the.specific thing, while yet in possession of the
seizing officer. It being admitted, in argument,
that the action sounding in damages would lie,
we arc unable to perceive the line of distinction
between that and the action of detinue. Yet the
latter action would claim the specific article seized
ibr the tax, and would obtain it, should the seizure be deemed unlawful.
It would be tedious to pursue this part of the
inquiry farther, and it would be useless, because
every person will perceive that the same reasoning
is applicable to all- the other enumerated ceontroversie's to -wlhich a State may be a party. The
principle may be illustrated by a reference to those
other controversies where jurisdiction depends on
the party. But, before we review them, we will
notice one wmere the nature of the controversy is,
in some degree, blended with the character of the
party.
If a.suit be brought against a foreign minister,
the Supreme Court alone has original Jurisdiction,
and this is shown on the record. But, suppose a
.suit to be brought which affects- the interest of a
foreign minister, oi by which the person of his s,-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cetary, or of his servant, is arrested. The minis- 1.824.
ter.does not, by the mere arrest of his secretary,
v.
or his servant, bec6me a party to this suit, but the
actual -defendant pleads to the jurisdiction of the U.S.Bank.
Court, and asserts his privilege. *Iftfe suit affects
a foreign minister, it must be dismissed, not because he is a party to it, but because it affects him.
The language of the constitution- in the two cases
is different. This Court can take cognizance of
all cases "affecting" foreign ministers; and, therefore, jurisdiction does not depend on the party
named in the record. But this language changes,
when the enumeration proceeds to States. Why
this change? The answer is obvious. In the
case of foreign ministers,-it was intended, for reasons which all comprehend, to give the national
Courts jurisdiction over all cases by which they
were- in- any manner affected. In the case
of States, whose immediate or remote interests
were mixed up with a multitude of cases, and who
might be affected in an' almost infinite variety of
:ways, it was intended to give jurisdiction in those
cases only to which they were actual parties.
In proceeding with the cases in which jurisdiction depends on the character of the party, the
first in -the enumeration is, "c6ntroversies to
which the United States shall be a party."
Does this provision extend to.the cases where
the United States are' not named in the record,
but claim, and are actually entitled to, the whole
subject in controversy?
Let us exarmine this question.
Suits brought by the Postmaster-General are

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1.824.
Osbom
W

for money due to the United States. The nominal plaintiff has no interest in the controversy,
and the United States are the only real party.

U.S.Bank. Yet, these suits could not be instituted in the

Courts of the Union, under that clause which gives
jurisdiction in all cases to-which the'United States
are a party; and it -was found necessary to give
the Court jurisdiction over them, as being cases
arising under a law of the United States.
The judicial power of the Union is also extended to controversies between citizens of different
States;. and it has been decided, that tle character of the parties must be shown on the record.
Does this provision depend on the character of
those whose interest is litigated, kjr of those who
are parties on the record? In a suit, for example,
brought by or against an executor. the creditors
or legatees of his testator are the persons really
concerned in interest; but it has never been suspected that, if the executor be a resident of another State, the jurisdiction of the federal Courts
could be ousted by the fact, that the creditors or
legatees were citizens of the same State with the
opposite party., The universally received construction in this case is, that jurisdiction is neither
given nor ousted by the relative situation of the
parties concerned in interest, but by the relative
situation of the parties named on the record.
Why is this construction universal?. No case 'an
be imagined, in which the existence of an interest
out of the party on the record is more unequivocal than in that which has been, just stated. Why,.
thenD, is it universally admitted, that this interest in

Or THE UNITED STATES.

ino manner affects the jurisdiction of the Court?

1824.

T'ie plain and obvious answer is, because the juOsb=~
risdiction of the Court depends, not upon this inv.
terest, but upon the actual party on the record.
U S.UBnk.
Were a Itaie to be the sole legatee, it will not,
we presume, be alleged, that the jurisdiction of
-the Court, in a suit against the executor, would be
more affected by this fact, than by the fact that
any :other person, not suable in the Courts of the
Union, was the sole legatee. Yet, in such a case,
the Court would decide directly and immediately
on the interest of the, State.
This principle might be further illustrated by
showing that jurisdiction, where it depends on the
character of the party, is never conferred in consequence of the existence of an interest in a party
not named; and by showing that, under the dis.tributive clause of the 2d section of the 3d article,
the Supreme Court could never take original jurisdiction, in consequence of an interest in a part,
not named in the record.
But the principle seems too well established to
require that more time should be devoted to it. It
.may, we think, be laid down as a rule which admits
of no exception, that, in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is the party named
in .the record. Consequently, the I lth amendment, which restrains th jurisdiction granted by
the constitution over uits against States, is, of
necessity, limited to those suits in which a State
is a party on therecord. The amendment has its
full effect, if the .constitution he construed as it
VQL..IX.

fOB

CASES IN THE SUPREI E COURT

W

1824.
'of
V.

would have been construedf had the .jurisdiction
the Court never been extended to suits brought
against a .State, by the citizens of another- State,
U, S.Bank. or by aliens.
The State not being a party on ther record, and
the Court having jurisdiction over those who are
parties on the record, the true question is, not one
of jurisdiction,.but whether, in the exercise of its
jurisdiction,, the Court ought to make a decree
against the defendants; whether they are to be
considered as having a real interest, or as being
only nominal parties.
In pursuing tha arrangement which the appellants have made for the argument of the cause,
this question has already been considered, The
responsibility of the officers of the State for the
money-tqken out of the Bank, was admitted, and
it was acknowledged that this responsibility might
be enforced by the proper action. The objection
is, to its being enforced against the specific article
taken, and by the decree of this Court. But,, it
has been shown, we think, that an aqtion of detinue m'ight be maintained for that article, if -the
Bank had possessed the means of describing it,
and that the interest of the State would not have
been an obstacle to the suit of the Bank against
the individual in possession of it. The judgment
in such a suit might have been enforced, had the
article been found in possession of the individual
defendant. It has been shown, that the danger of
its being parted with, of its being lost to the plain.
tiff, and.the necessity of. a discovery, justified the
application to a Court of equity. It was in a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

859

Court of equity alone that the relief would be 1824.
real, substantial, and effective. The parties must
certainly have a real interest in the case, since
V.
their personal responsibility is acknowledged, and, u. S. Bank.
if 'denied, could be demonstrated.
It was proper, then, to make a decree against
the, defendants in the Circuit Court, if the law of
the State of Ohio be repugnant to the const'tution,
or to a law of the United States made in pursuance thereof, so as to furnish no authority to those
who took, or to those who received, the money
for which this suit was instituted.
7. Is that law unconstitutional ?.
This point was argued with great ability, and 'The decisioi
f the Cout I
decided by this Court, after mature and deliberate
X.c00c
; g ll
,
Xa r yla nd , er.
consideration, in the case of M'Gulloch.
he vewoed an
State of Maryland. A revision of that opinion confirmed.
has been requested; and many gonsiderations
combine to induce a review of it.
The foundation of the argument in favour of the
right of a State to tax the Bank, is laid in the supposed.character of that institution. The argument supposes the corporation to have been originated for the management of an individual concern, to be founded upon' contract between individuals, having private trade and private profit for its
great end and principal object.
If these piemises were true, the conclusion
drawn from them would be inevitable. This mere
private corporation, engaged in its own business,
.with its own views, would certainly be subject to
the taxing power of the State, as any individual
would be; and the casual circumstance of its being

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

824.
OIsbotn

It.
U. S. Bank.

employed by the government in the transattion of
its fiscal affairs, would no. more exempt its private
business from the operation of that power, than it
would exempt the private business of any individual employed in the same rhanner. But the premises are iot true. The Bank is not consideredas a private corporation, whose principal object ig
itidiridOei trade adid individual ptofit; bat as a
l~blie 6orporatfon, created for public arnd nationl
purposes. That the inerb buminess'of bmnKing io,
ita ite 6Wn ndtute, a private busiriess, and may be
carried on by individuals or compties having no
political connexion with the goverirfteaht, is adlnitted ; but the Bank is not such an individual or
eampany. It was not created forits own sake, ow
for private purposes. It has never be euppoeod
that Congress could create bach.a corporation.
The whole opinion of the Coun, in 1he cate of
M'Culloch v. The ,9tateof Marylandt, it fonded
bti, and sustained byj the idea that ti* Bank. Is an
instrumient Which is. "ne c essaty and propel fbr
carrying ibto eflbot the powera vested. in tle go.
verneent of the Uited States.". Itfis not an in,
stt'UftiUt Which the government found readymad%,
and hat§ supposed to -be adapted to it't"pYoses;
but one which was created in the foray In which' it
now appears, for. national purposes Only. It tEf
tudoubtedly, capable of transaating privot is *ell
as pabltc'business. While it is the great "i mrw
rneat by which the fiscal operationt of the goveritMnent ate Lheted, it is also trading with; indivirduals frt its own aldvantage. The appelluft o fdeavotrf to distingaish bet eta dis' tadewatidt

OF THE UNITED STATES.

agency for the public, between-its Banking opera- 1824.
tions and those qualities which it posseses in
v.
common with every corporation, such as indiviS.BVi.
U.
adto
seem
they
While
&c.
duality, immortality,
mit the right to preserve this corporate existence,
they deny the right to protect. it in its trade and
business.
If there be-any thing in this distinction, it would
tend to show that so much of the act as incorporates the Bank is constitutional, but so much of it
as authorizes its Banking operations is unconstitutional. Congress can make the inanimate body,
and employ the machine as a depository of, and
vehicle for, the conveyance of the treasure of the
nation, ifit be capable of being so employed, but
cannot breathe into it the vital spirit which alone
can bring it into useful existence.
Let this distinction be considered.
Why is it that Congress can incorporate or
create a Bank? This question was answered in
the case of M' Culloch v. The State of Maryland.
It is an instrument which is "necessary and proper" for carying on the fiscal operations of government. Can this instrument, on any rational
calculation, effect its object, unless it beendowed
with that faculty of lending and dealing in money,
which is conferred by its charter? If it can, ifit
be as comletent to the purposes of government
without, as with this faculty, there will be much
difficulty in sustaining that essential part of the
charter. If it cannot, then this faculty is necessary to the legitimate operations of government,
and was constitutionally and rightfully engrafted
on the ins.titution. It is, in that view of the subject.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"Osborn

V.

U3.

the vital part of the corporation; it is its souls
and the right to preserve it originates in the same
principle, with the right to preserve the skeleton or
The distinction between

S.Bank. body which it animates.

de.stroying what is denominated the corporate
franchise, and destroying its viyifying principle, is
precisely as incapable of being maintained, as a
distinction between the right to sentence a human
being to death, and a right to sentence .iim to a
total privation of sustenance during life. Deprive
a Bank of its trade and business, which is its sustenance, and its immortality, if it have that property, will be a very useless attribute.
This distinction, then, has no real existence.
To tax its* aculties, its trade, and occupation, is to
tax the Bank itself? To destroy or preserve the
one, is to destroy or preserve the other.
It is urged, that Congress. has not, by this act of
incbrporation, created the faculty of trading in
money; that it had anterior existence, and may
be carried on by a private individual, or company,
as well as by a corporation. As this profession or
business may be taxed, regulated, or restrained,
When conducted by an individual, it may, likewise,
be taxed, regulated, or restrained, when conducted by a corporation.
The general correctness of these propositions
need not be controverted.
Their particular application, to the question before the Court, is alone
to be considered. We do not maintain that the
corporaie character of the 'Bank exempts its operations fromh the action of State authority. If an
individual were to be efidowed with the some fa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

eulties, for the same purposes, he'would be equally 1824.
protected in the exercise of those faculties. The Osba
operations of the Bank are believed not only to
v.
yield the compensation for its servi6es to the go- U. S. Bank.
vernment, hut to be essential to the performance
,of those services. Those operations give its value
to the currency in which all the transactions of the
government are conducted. . They are, therefore,
inseparably connected with those transactions,
They-enable the Bank to render those services to
the nation for which it was created, and are, there
fore, of the very essence of its character, as natio'rf !al instruments. The business of the Bank con.
stitutes its capacity to perform its functions, as a
machine for the money transactions of the government. Its corporate character is merely an incident, which enables it to transact that business
more beneficially.
Were the Secretary of the Treasury to be authorized, by law, to appoint agencies throughout the
Union, to perform the public functions of the Bank,
and to be endowed with its faculties, as a necessary
auxiliary to those functions, the operations of those
agents would be as exempt from the control of the
States as the Bank, and riot more so. If, instead
of the Secretary of the Treasury, a distinct office
were to be created for the purpose, filled by a person who should receive, as a compensation for his
time, labour, and expense, the profits of the banking business, instead of other emoluments, to be
drawn from the treasuy, which banking business
was essential to the operations of the government,
would each State in the Union nossess a right to

CASES II TH

$VPIED,

COUJRT

ontrt these operati'a ? The questioq. o1 which
this right would depend must always he, are these
.
Iaeu1lies Ao essential to the fiscal operations of the
k. goveromont, as to authorize Congress to confer
them? Let this be Admitted, and the question,
does the right to preserve them .exist? must always be aswexed in the affirmative.
•Congress was of opinion that these faculties
were necessary, to enable the Bank to perform
the services which are exacted from it, and for
which it was created. This was certainly aqueetisn proper for the consideration of the national
Legislature. 'But, were it now to undergo revision, who would have the hardihood to say, that,
without the employment of a banking capital,
those services could be performed ? That the
exeroise of these faculties greatly facilitates the
fiscal operations of the government, is too obvious
for controversy; and who will venture to affirm,
,that the suppression of them would not .materially
alTect those operations, and essentially -impair, if
-not totally destioy, the utility of the machine to
Pbgovernment? The currency which it ciroutater, by means of its trade'withindividuals, is beIieoved to make it a "orefit instrument for the pur-

184.
Z.T.S.

poses of governm at, :than it could otherwise be;
and, if this be true, the capacity to carry on this
trAde, is a f4cultj indispensable to the character
zd obje cte of the institution.
The appellants admit, that, if this faculty be
necessaryo make the Bank a fit instrument for

the purposes of the government, Congress posemes Ae mme power to.Protect the machine in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this, as in its direct fiscal operations; but they

so

1824.

deny that it is necessary to those purposes, and insist that it is granted solely for the benefit of the
v.
U.S.BaxtYproposithis
Were
corporation.
the
of
members
tion to be admitted, all the consequences which
are drawn from it might follow. " But it is not admitted. The Court has already stated its conviction, that without this capacity to trade with individuals, the Bank would be a very defective instrument, when considered with a single view to
its fitness for the purposes. of government. On
this point the vhole argument rests.
It is contended, that, admitting Congress to possess the power, this exemption ougrht to have been
expressly asserted in the act of incorporation; and,
not being expressed, ought not to be implied by
the Court.
It is not unusual,. for a legislative act to involve
consequences which are not expressed. An officer, for example, is ordered to arrest an individual. It is not necessary, nor is it usual, to say that
he shall not be punished for obeying this order.
His security is implied in the order itself. It is
no unusual thing for an act of Congress to imply,
without expressing, this very exemption from State
control, which is said to be so objectionable in this
instance. The collectors of the revenue, the carriers of the mail, the mint establishment, and all
those institutions which are publid in their nature.
are- examples in point. It has never been doubted,
that all who are employed in them, are protected,
while in the line of duty; and yet this protection
is notexpressed in any act of Congress. It is inVoL. IX.

109

866

CASES IN THE F.TPREME COURT

1824. cidental to, and iE[ implied iii, th several acts by
\-O'rn
Osborn which these institutions are created, and is secured
T. 'to the individuals employed in themby the judiV.S. Bank. cial power alone; that is, the judicial power is
the instrument employed by the government in
administering this security.
That department has no will, in any case. If
the sound construction of the act be, that it exempts
the trade of the Bank, as being essenti*al to the
character bf a machine necessary to the fiscal operations of the government, from the control of the
States, Courts are as much bound'to give it that
construction, as if the exemption had been established in express terms.. Judicial power, as contraditinguished from th'e power of the laws, has
no existence. Courts are the mere instruments
of the law, and can will nothing. When thej are
said to exercise a discretion, it is a mere lega discrotion, a discretion to be exercised in discerning
the course prescribed by law; and, when that is
discerned, it is the duty of the Court to follow it.
Judicial power is never exercised for the purpose
of giving effect to the will of the Judge ; always
for the purpose of giving effect to the will of the
Legislature; or, in other words, to the will of the law.
'The appbllants rely greatly on the distinction
between the Bank and the public institutions, such
as the mint or the post office. The agents in
those offices are, it is said, officers of government,
and are exciuded from a seat. in Congress. Not
so the directors of the Bank. The connexion of
the government .with the Bank, is likened to that
with contractors.
It will not be contended, that the directors, or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

aG7

other officers of the Bank, are officers ofgovernment. 1824.
But it is contended, that, were their resemblance Osborn
v.
to contractors more perfect than it is, the right of
the State to control its operations, if those opera-U.S. Bank.
tions be necessary to its character, as a machine
employed by the government, cannot be maintained. Can a contractor for supplying a military
post with provisions, be restrained from making
purchases within any State, or from transporting
the.provisions to the place at which the troops
were stationed? or could he be fined or taxed for
doing so? We have not yet heard these questions
answered in the affirmative. It is true, that the
property of the contractor may be taxed, as the
property of other citizens; and Ro may the local
property of the Bank. But we do not admit that
the act of purchasing, or of conveying the articles
purchased, can be under State control.
If the trade of the Bank be essential to its character, as a machine for the fiscal operations of the
government, that trade must be as exempt from
State control as the actual conveyance of the public money. Indeed, a tax bears upon the whole
machine; as well upon the faculty of collecting
and transmitting the money of the nation, as on
that of discounting the notes of individuals. No
distinction is taken between them.
Considering the capacity of carrying on the
trade of "banking, as an important feature in the
character of this corporation, which was. necessary, to make it a fit instrument for the objects for
which it was created, the Court adheres to its decision in the case of Al' Cullock against The ,StaUt

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of Maaryiand, and is of opipion, that tho act of
State of Ohio, which is certainly much more
••
V.
objectionable
than that of the State of Marylajnd,
U.S.Bank. is repugnant to a law of the United States, made
1824.
Osbox

Sthe

in pursuance of the constitution, ad, therefore,
void. The counsel for the appellants are too
intelligent, and have too much self respect, to pretend, that a void act can afford any protection to
the oflIcers who execute it. They expressly admit
that it cannot.
It being then, shown, we think conclusively, that
the defendants could derive neither 4uthority nor
protection from the act which they executed, and
that this suit is not againstf the State of Ohio within thd view of the constitution, the State being no
party on the record, the only real question in the
cause is, whether the record contains sufficient
matter to justify the Court in pronouncing a decree
against the defendants ? That this question is attended with great difficulty, has not been concealed or denied. But when we reflect that the defendants, Osborne and Harper,. are incontestably
liable for the full amount of the money taken out
of the Bank; that-the defendant, Currie, is also responsible for the sum received by him, it having
come to his hands with.full knowledge of the unlawful means by which it was acquired; that the
defendant, Sullivan, is also responsible for the
sum specifically delivered to him, with nbtice that
it was the property of the Bank, unless the form of
having made an entry on the books of the treasury
can countervail the fact, that it was, in truth, kept
lintouched, in a trunk, by itself, as a deposit, to await

OF THE UNITED STATES.

869

the event of the pending suit respecting it; we 1824.
may lay it down as a'proposition, safely to be afV.
firmed, that all the defendants in the cause were
liable in an action at law for the amount of this U s.Banb
decree. If the original injunction was properly
awarded, for the reasons stated in the preceding
part of this opinion, the money, having reached the
hands of all those to whom it afterwards .came
with notice of that injunction, might be pursued,
so long as it remained a distinct deposit, neither
mixed with the money of the treasury, nor put into
circulation. Were it to be admitted, that the original injunction was not properly awarded, still
the amended and supplemental bill, which brings
before the Court all the, parties who had been conerned in the transaction, was filed after the cau
of action had completely accrued. The money,of
the Bank had be.en taken, without authority, by
some of the defendants, and Nvas detained by the
only person who was not an original wrong doer,
in a specific form; sd that detinue might have been
maintained forit, had it been in the power of the
Bank to prove the facts which are necessary to
establish the identity of the property sued for,
Under such circumstances, we think, a Couirt of
equity may afford ifs aid, on the ground-that a discovery is necessary, and alsc on the same principle
that an injction issues to restrain a persen who
has fraudulently obtained possession of negotiable
notes, from putting them into circulation; or a
person having the apparent ownership of stock
really belonging to another, from transferring it.
The, suit, then, might be as well sustained iba

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

V.

U.S.Bank.

Court of equity as in a Court of law, and the objection that the interests of the State are committed to subordinate agents, if true, is the unavoidable consequence of exemption from being suedof sovereignty. The interests of the United States
are sometimes committed to subordinate agents.
It was the case in Hoyt v. Geislon, in the case
of The Apollon, and in the case of Doddridge's
Lessee v. Thompson and Wright, and in many
others. An independent foreign sovereign cannot
be sued, and does not appear in Court. But a
friend of the Court comes in, and, by suggestion,
gives it to understand, that his interests are involved in the controversy. The interests of the
sovereign, in such a case, and in every other where
he chooses to assert tl-m.under the name of the
rea: party to the cause are as well defended as if
he were a party to the record. But his pretensions, where they are not well founded, cannot
arrest the right of a party having a right to the
thing for which he sues. Where the right is in
the plaintiff, and the possession in the defendant,
the inquiry cannot be stopped by the mere assertion of title in a sovereign. Tfie Court must proceed to investigate the assertion, and examine the
title. In the case at bar, the tribunal established
by the constitution, for the purpose of deciding,
ultimately, in all cases of this description, had solemnly determined, that a State law imposing a
tax on the Bank of the United States, was unconstitutional and void, before the wrong was committed for which this suit was brought.
We think, then, that there is no error in the de-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cree of the Circuit Court for the district of Ohio,

1824.

so far as it directs restitution of the specific sum
of 98,000 dollars,- which was taken out of the,
V.
Bank unlawfully, and was in the possession of the U. S. Bank.
defendant, Samuel Sullivan, when the injunction
was awarded, in September, 1.820, to restrain him
from paying it away, or in any manner using it;
and so far as it directs the payment of the remaining sum of 2000 dollars, by the defendants, Ralph
Osborne and John L. Harper; but that the same
is erroneous, so far as respects the interest on the
coin, part of the said .98,000 dollars, it being the
opinion of this Court, that, while the parties were
restrained by the authority of the Circuit Court
from using it, they ought not to be charged with
interest. The decree of the Circuit Court for the
district of Ohio is affirmed, as to the said sums of
98,000 dollars, and 2000 dollars; and reversed. as
to the residue.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoNi The argument in this
cause presents three questions: 1. Has Congress granted to the Bank of the United States,
an unlimited right of suing in the Courts of the
United States? 2. Could Congress constitutionally grant such a right?, and 3. Has the
power of the Court been legally and constitutionally
exercised in this suit?
I have very little doubt that the public mind
will be easily reconciled to the decision of the
Qourt here rendeied; for, whether necessary or
unnecessary originally, a state of things has now
grown up, in some of the States, Ahich renders all

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1.824.

the protection necessary, that the general governcan give to this Bank. The policy of the
Osborn
V.
decision is obvious, that is, if the Bank is to be suu'
U.S,.Bank. tained; and few will bestow upon its legal
correctness, the reflection, that it is necessary to teat
it by the constitution and laws, under which it is
rendered.
The Bank of the United States, is now identified with the administration of the national government. It is an immense machine, economically and beneficially applied to the fiscal transactions of the nation. Attempts have been made
to dispense with it, and they have failed; serious
and very weighty doubts have been entertained of
its constitutionaliy, but they have been abandoned;
and it is now become the functionary that collects,
the depository that holds, the vehicle that transports, the guard that protects, and the agent that
distributes and pays away, the millions that pass
annually through the national treasury; and all
this, not only without expense to the government,
but after paying a large bonus, and susfaining actual annual losses to a large amount; furnishing
the only possible means of embodying the most
ample security for so immense a charge.
Had its effects, however, and the views of its
framers, been confined exclusively to its fiscal
uses, it is more than probable that this suit, and
the- laws in which it originated, would never have
had existence. But it is well known, that with
that object was combined another, of a very general, and not less important character.
• The expiration of the charter of the former Bank
led to State creations of Banks ; each new Bank iN

%ment

OF THE UNITED STATES.

873

creased the facilities of creating others; and the 1824.
necessities of the general government, both to Osbom
v.
make use of the State Banks for their deposits,
Bank.
S.
U.
to
lend
would
who
all
of
largely
and to borrow
them, produced that rage for multiplying Banks,
which, aided by the emoluments, derived to the
States in their creation, and the many individual
incentives which tiey developed, soon inundated
the country with a new description of bills of credit, against which it was obvious that the provisions of the constitution opposed no adequate inhibition.
A specie-paying Bank, with an overwhelming
capital, and the whole aid of the government deposits, presented the only resource to which the
government could resort, to restore that power
over the currency of the country, which the framers
of the constitution evidently intended to give to
Congress alone. But this necessarily involved a
restraint upon individual cupidity, and the exercise of State power; and, in the nature of things,
it was hardly possible for the mighty effbrt necessary to put down an evil spread so wide, and arrived
to such maturity, to be made without embodying
againstit an immense moneyed combination, which
could not fail of making its influence to be felt,
wherever its claimances could reach, or its industry and wealth be brought to operate.
I believe, that the good sense of a people, who
know that they govern themselves, and feel that
they have no interests distinct from those of their
government, would readily concede to the Bank,
thus circumstanced, some, if not all the rights here
VOL. IX.

110

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

v.
U. S. Bank.

contended for. But I cannot persuade myself,
that they.have been conceded in the extent which
this decision affirms. Whatever might be proper
to be done by an amendment of the constitution,
this Court is only, at present, expounding its existing provisions.
In the present instance, I cannot persuade myself, that the constitution sanctions the vesting of
the right of action in this Bank, in cases in which
the privilege is exclusively personal, or in any case,
merely on the ground that a question might possibly be raised in it, involving the constitution, or.
constitutionality.of a law, of the United States.
When lawg were heretofore passed for raising
a revenue by a duty on stamped paper, the tax was
quietly acquiesced in, notwithstanding it entrenched so closely on the unquestionable power of the
States over the law of contracts; but had the same
law which declared void contracts not written upoD stamped paper, declared, that every parson
holding such paper should be entitled to. bring
his action "in any Circuit Court" of the United
States, it is confidently bplieved that there could
have been but one opinion on the constitutionality of such a provision. The whole jurisdiction
over contracts, might thus have been taken from
the State Courts, and conferred upon those of the
United States. Nor would the evil have rested
there; by a similar exercise of power, imposing a
stamp on deeds generally, jurisdiction over the
territory- of the State, whoever might be parties,
even between citizens of the same State-jurisdiction of suits instituted for the recovery of legacies

uF

'I. UNITED STATES.

ordistributive portions of intestates'estates-juris-

182-1.

diction, in fact, over almost every possible case, O5born
mightbe transferred to the Courts of the United
V.
States. Wills may be required to be executed on U. S. BanL
stamped paper; taxes may be, and have been, imposed upon legacies and distributions; and, in all
such cases, there is not only a possibility, but -a
probability, that a question may .arise, involving
the constitutionality, construction, &c. of a lav of
the United States. If the circumstance, that the
questions which the case involves, are to determine
its character, whether those questions be made in.
the case or not, then every case here alluded to,
may as well be transferred to the jurisdiction of
the United States, as those to which this Batik is
a party. But still farther, as was justly insisted
in argument, there is not a tract of land in the United States, acquired under laws of the United
States, whatever- be the number of mesne transfers that it may have undergone, over which the
jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States
might not be extended by Congress, upon the very principle on which the right of suit in this Bank
is here maintained. Nor is the case of the alien,
put in argument, at all inapplicable.
The one
acquires its character of individual property, as the
other does his-political existence, under a law of the
United States; and there is not a suit which may
be instituted to recover the one, nor an action of
ejectment to be brought by the other, in which a
,'ight acquired under a law of the United States,
does not lie as essentially at the basis of the right
of action, as in the suits brought by this Bank,

CASES IN TIIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
.

Osborn

It is no answer to the argument, to say, that thie

law of the United States is but ancillhry to the

V.

constitution, as to the alien; for the constitution,

Bank.

could do nothing for him without the law: and,
whether the question be upon law or constitution,
still if the possibility of its arising be a sufficient
circumstance to bring it within the jurisdiction of
the United States Courts, that possibility exists
with regard to every suit affected by alien disabilities; to real actions in time of peace-to all
actions in time of war.
I canndt persuade myself, then, that, with these
palpable consequrences in vie:v, Congress ever
could have intended to vest in the Bank of the
United States, the right of suit to the extent here
claimed. And, notwithstanding the confidence
with which this point has been argued, an examination of the terms of the act, and 'a consideration
of them with a view to the context, will be fou nd
to leave it by no means a clear case, that such is
the legal meaning of the act of incorporation.
To be sure, if The act had simply and substantively
given the right " to sue and be stied in the Circuit
Courts of the United States," there could have
been no question made upon the construction of
those words. But such is not the fact. The
words are, not that the Bank shall be made able
and capable in law, to sue, &c., but that it shall,
"by a certain name," he made able and capable in law to do the various acts therein enumerated. And these words, under the force of
which this suit is instituted, are found in the
ordinary incorporating clause of this act, a clause

O1 THE UNITED STATES.

which is well understood to be, and which this 1824.
Court, in the case of Deveaux, has recognised to be, %Osborn
V.
little more than the mere common place or formula
U.S.Bankis
corporation
a
of
ofsuc h an ac.t. The name
the symbol of its personal existence; a misnomer
there is fatal tQ a suit, (and still more fatal as to
other transactions.) By the incorporating clause,
a name is given it, and, with that name, a place
among created beings; then usually follows an
enumeration of the ordinary acts in which it may
personate a natural man; and amongthose acts,
the right to sue and be sued, of which the Court,
inDeveaux's case, very correctly remarks, that it
is "a power which if not incident to a corporation,
is conferred by every incorporating act, and is not
understood to enlarge the jurisdiction of any particular Court, but to give. a capacity to the corporation to appear as a corporation in any Court
which would by law have cognizance of the cause
if brought by individuals." With this qualification, the clause in question will be construed, as an
enumeration of incidents, instead of a string of
enactments; and such a construction is strongly
countenanced by the concluding sentence of the
section . for, after running through the whole routine of powers, most .of which are unquestionably
incidental, and needed no enactment to vest them,
it concludes thus: "and generally to do and execute all and singular the acts, matters, and things,
which to them it shall and may appertain to do."
And, in going over the act, it will be found, that
whenever it is contemplated to vest a-power not
incidental, it is done by a specific provision, made

uASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

the subject of a distinct clause; such is that power
to transact the business of the loan-office of the
S
V. United States. And, indeed, there is one section
U.S.Bank. of the act, which strikingly exhibits
the light in
which the law-makers considered the incorporating
clause. I mean the tenth; which, notwithstanding that the same clause in the seventh section,
which is supposed to confer this sweeping power
to sue, confers also, in terms equally conWrehensive, the power to make laws for the institution,
and "to do and execute all and singular the matters and things, which to them it shall and may
appertain to do," contains an enactment in the
following words: "that they shall have power to
appoint such officers, clerks, and servants, under
them, for executing the business of tho corporation, and to allow them such compensation for
their services respectively, as shall be reasonable;
and shall be capable of exercising such other
powers and authorities for the well governing and
ordering the officers of the said corporation, as
shall be prescribed by the laws, regulations, and
ordinances, of the same ;" a section which would
have been altogether unnecessary, had the seventh
section been considered as enacting, instead of
enumerating and limiting. I consider the incorporating clause, then, not as purporting the absolute
investment of any power, but as the usual and formal declaration of the extent to which this artificial should personate the natural person, in the
transactions incident to ordinary life, or to the peculiar objects of its creation ; and, therefore, not
vesting the right to sue in the Courts of the United
1824.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

879

States, but only the right of personating the na- 1824.
tural man in the Courts of the United States, as it Osbom
V.
might, upon general principles, in any other Courts
U.S.Bank,
conis
say,
I
this,
And
jurisdiction.
of competent
sonant to the decision in Deveaux's case, and sustained by abundant evidence on the face of the act
itself. Indeed, any other view of the effect of the
section, converts some of its provisions into absolute nonsense.
It has been argued, and I have no objection to
-admit, that the phraseology of this act has been
varied from that incorporating the former Bank,
with a view to meet the decision in Deveaux's case.
But it is perfectly obvious, that in the prosecution
of that design, the purport of Deveaux's case has
been mfisapprehended. The Court there decide,
that the jurisdiction of the United States depended, (1.) on the character of the cause, (2.)
on the character of the parties; that the Judiciary Act confined the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts to the second class of cases, and the in,corporating act contained .no.-words that purported to carry it further. Whether the legislative power of the United States could extend it as
far as is here insisted on, or what words iyould be
adequate to that'purpose, the case neither called
on the Court to decide, nor has it proposed to decide. If any thing is to be inferred from that decision on those points, it is unfavourable to the
sufficiency of the words inserted in the presenc
act. For, the argument of the Court intimates,
that where the Legislature propose to give juris'o
diction to the Courts of the United States, they do

tASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Osborn

TJ. S. V.
Bank.

it by a separate provision, as in the case of the
action of.debt for exceeding the sum authorized
to be loaned. And on the words of the incorporating section, it makes this remark, "that
it is not
understood to enlarge the jurisdiction of any particular Court, but to give acapacity to the corporation
to appear as a corporation in any Court, which
would by law have cognizance of the cause if
brought by individuals. Ifjurisdictionis given by
this clause to the federal Courts, it is equally
given to all Courts having original jurisdiction.
and for all sums, however small they be." Now,
the difference of phraseology between the former
act and the present, in the clause in question, is
this : the former has these words, "may sue and
be sued, &6. in Courts of record or any other
place whatsoever ;" the present act has substituted these words, "in all State Courts having
competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court
of the United States." Now, the defect here
could not have been the want of adequate words,
had the intent appeared to have boon, to enlarge
the jurisdiction of.any particular Court. For, if
the Circuit Courts were Courts of record, the
right of suit given was as full as any other words
could have made it. But, as the Court in its own
words assigns the ground of its decision, the clause
could not have been intended to enlarge the jurisdiction of the State Courts, and therefore could
not have been intended to eniirge that of the
federal Courts, much less to hicve extended it to
the smallest sum possible. Therefore it concludes,
:hat the clause is one or"mere enumeration. con.

UF TiE UNITED b'rA'TES.

raining, as it expresses it, " the powers which, if 1824.
not incident to a corporation, are conferred by Osborn
V.
every incorporating act, and are not understood to
enlarge," &c. If, then, this variation had in view U.S.BanL.
the object which is attributed to'it, the'words intended to answer that object have been inserted so
unhappily as to neutralize its influence; but, I
think it much more consistent with the respect
due to the draftsman, who was known. to have
been an able lawyer, to believe that, with such
an object in view, he would have pursued a much
more plain and obvious course, and given it a
distinct and unequivocal section to itself, or at
least have worded it with more marked attention.
This opinion is further supported, by considering
the absurdities that a contrary opinion would lead
to.
A literal translation of the words in question is
impossible. Nothing but incorisistencies present
themselves, if we attempt to apply it without a reference to the laws and constitution of the United
States, forming together the judicial system of the
Union. The words are, "may sue and be sued,
&c., in any State Court having competent jurisdiction, and in any Circuit Court of the United
States." But why should one member of the
passage be entitled to an enacting effect, and not
the residue ? Yet, who will impute to the Legisla-

ture or the draftsman, and intention to vest a jurisdiction by these words in a State Court? I do
not speak of the positive effect; since the failure
of one enactment, because of a want either of
power to give or capacity to receive, will not conVOL. IX

ii.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

882

1824.
Osborn

V.
U. S. Bank.

trol the effect as to any other enactment. I speak
of the intent or understanding of-the law-maker;
who must have used these words, as applicable to
the State Courts, in an enacting sense, if we suppose him to have used them in that sense, as to the
Courts of .the United States. Yet I should be
very unwilling to impute to him, or to -the Legislature of the country, ignorance of the fact,
that such an enactment, if it was one, could not
give a right to sue in the State Courts, if the right
did not exist without it. Or, in fact, that quch
enactment was altogether unnecessary, if the legislative power, which must give effect to such an
enactment; was adequate to constitute effectually
this body corporate.
But why should this supposed enactment go
still farther, and confer the ,capacity to be sued,
as well as to sA.e,, either in the Courts of the one
jurisdiction or the other? Did the lawgivers suppose that this corporation would not be subject to
suit, without an express enactment for that purpose.also? Or was it guilty of the more unaccountable mistake, of supposing that it could confer upon individuals, indiscriminately, this privilege of
bringing suits in the Courts of the Unitsd States
against the Bank ? that too, for a cause of action
originating, say, in work and labour, or in a special action on the case, or perhaps, ejectment to
try title to land mortgaged by a person not having
the estate in him, or purchased of a tortious holder for a banking house ? I cannot acquiesce in the
supposition; and yet, if one is an enactment, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

takes effect as such, they are all enactments, for 1824.
they are uttered eodernflat.\
Osborn
v.
My own conclusion is, .that none of them are
B=k,
S.
u.
at
or,
declaratory;
merely
all
enactments, but
most, only enacting, in the words of the Court, in
the case of Deveaux, that the Bank may, by its
corporate name and netaphysical existence, bring
suit, or personate the natural man, in the Courts
specified, as though it were in fact a natural person; that is, in those cases in which, according to
existing laws,.suits may be brought in the Courts
specified respectively.
Indeed, a more unrestricted sense given to the
. ;rds of the act, could not be carried into execution ; a literal exercise of the right of suit, supposed to be granted, would be impossible. Can
the Bank of the United States be sued (in the literal language of the act) "in any Circuit Court
of the United States?" in that of Ohio, or LouiLocality, in this respect,
siana, for instance?
cannot be denied to such an institution; or, at
least,.it is only incidentally, by distress infinite, or
attachments for instance, that such a uit could be
maintained. Nor, on the other band, could the
Bank sue literally in any Circuit Court of the United States. It must, of necessity, be confined to
the Circuit Court of that district -in which the defendant resides, or is to be found. And thus, at
last, we circumscribe these general words, by reference to the judicial system of the United States,
as it,
existed at the time. And why the same restriction should not have been imposed, as- to
amount, which is imposed as to all other suit6rs,

8GASES IN THE SUPRLbIE COURT

884
1824.
"-.'~'
0

"hru

sbo

to wit, 500 dollars and upwards, is to me inscrutable, except on the supposition that this clause was

not intended for any other purpose than that which
have supposed. The United States have suffered no other suitors to institute a suit in its Courts
for less than that sum, and it is hard to conceive
why the Bank should be permitted to institute a
suit to recover, if it will, a single cent. This consideration is expressly drawn into notice by this
Court, in the case of Deveaux, and if it was entitled to weight then, in fixing the construction of
the incorporating section, I sec no reason why it
should be unnoticed now.
I will dwell no longer on a point, which is in
fact secondary and subordinate; for if Congress
can vest this jurisdiction, and the people will it,
the act may be amended, and the jurisdiction vested. I next proceed to consider, more distinctly,
the constitutional question, on the right to vest
the jurisdiction to the extent here contended for.
And here I must observe, that I altogether misunderstood the counsel, who argued the cause for
the plainfiff in error, if any of them contended
against the jurisdiction, on the ground that the
cause involved questions depending on general
principles. No one can question, that the Court
which has jurisdiction of the principal question,
must exercise jurisdiction 6ver every question.
Neither did 1 understand them as denying, that
if Congress could confer on the Circuit Courts
apIiellate, they could confer original jurisdiction.
The argument went to deny the right to assume
jurisdiction on a mere hypothesis. It was one of

J.S. Bank. I

OF THE UNITED STATES.

description, identity, definition; they contended, 1824.
that until a question involving the construction or Osborn
administration of the laws of the United States
v.
did actually arise, the casus federis was not U.S.Bank.
presented, on which the constitktion authorized
the government to take to itself the jurisdiction of
the cause. That until such a question actually
arose, until such a case was actually presented,
non constat, but the cause depended upon general principles, exclusively cognizable in the State
Courts ; that neither the letter nor the spirit of the
constitution sanctioned the assumption of jurisdiction on the part of the United States at any previous stage.
And this doctrine has -my hearty concurrence in
its general application. A very simple case may
be stated, to illustrate its bearing on the question
of jurisdiction between the two governments. By
virtue of treaties with Great Britain, aliens holding
lands were exempted from alien disabilities, and
made capable of holding, aliening, and transmitting their estates, in common with natives. But
why should the claimants of such lands, to all
eternity, be vested with the privilege of bringing
an original suit in the Courts of the United States?
It 'is true, a question might be made, upon the effect of the treaty, on the rights, claimed by or
through the alien; but until that question does
arise, nay, until a decision against the right takes
place, what end has the United States to subserve
in claiming jurisdiction of the cause? Such is
the present law of the United States, as to all but
this one distinguished- party; and that law was

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUI'|

1824.
Osborn

V.
U. S. Bank.

passed when the doctrines, the views, and ends of
the constitution, were, at least, as well understood
as they are at present. I attach much importance
to the 25th section of the judiciary act, not only
as a measure of policy, but as a cotemporaneous
exposition of the constitution on this subject ; as
an exposition of thc words of the constitution, deduced from a knowledge of its views and policy.
The object was, to secure a uniform construction
and a steady, execution of the laws of the Union.
Except as far as this purpose might requile, the ge-neral government had no interest in stripping the
State Courts of their jurisdiction; their policy
would rather lead to avoid incumbering themselves
with it. Why then should it be vested with jurisdiction in -a thousand cai cs, on a mere possibility
of a question arising, w.Ach question, at last, does
not occur in one of them ? Indeed, I cannot perceive how such a reach of jurisdiction can be asserted, without, changing the reading of the constitution on this subject altogether. Trihe judicial
power extends only to " cases arising," that is, actual, not potential cases. The framers of'the constitution knew better, than to trust such a quo miWus fiction in the hands of any government.
I have never und*erstood any 6ne to question the
right of Congress to vest original jurisdiction in
its inferior Courts, in cases cring properly within the description of "cases vrising under the lIvs
of the United States;" but surely it most first be
ascertained, in some pr.oper il'bde, that the cases
are, such as the constituii6dn. desdribes. By possibility, a constitutional question May be raised in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

any conceivable suit that may be instituted; but 1824.
that would be .a very insufficient ground for assu- Osborn
ming universal jurisdiction; and yet, that a quesv.
tion has been made, as that, for instance, 'onthe U. S.Bank.
Bank charter, and may again be made, seems still
worse, as a ground for extending jurisdiction.
For, the folly of raising it again in every suit institutedby theBank, is too great, to suppose it possible. Yet this supposition; and this alone, would
seem to justify vesting the Bank with an unlimited
right to sue in the federal Courts. Indeed, I cannot perceive how, with ordinary correctness, a
question can be said to be -involved in a cause,
which only may possibly be made, but which, in
fact, is the very last question that there is any probability will be made; or rather, how that can any
longer be denominated a question, which has been
put ouit of existence by a s6lemn decision. The
constitution presumes, that the decisions of the supreme tribunal will be acquiesced in;*and after
disposing of the few questions which the constitution refers to it, all the minor questions belong
properly to the State jurisdictions, and never were
intended to be-taken away in mass.
Efforts have been made to fix the precise sense
of the constitution, when it vests jurisdiction in the
general government, in "cases arising under the
laws of the Tqnited States." To me, the question
appears susceptible of a very simple solution; that
all depends upon the identity of the case supposed; according to which idea,'a case may be such
in its very existence, or it may become such in its
progress. An action mav "live, move, and have

CASES IN THE SUPREME CWURT

1824.

its being," in a law of the United States; such is
that given for the violation of a patent-right, and
V. four or five different actions given by this act of
U. S.Bank. incorporation; particularly that against
the President and Directors for over-issuing; in all of which
cases the plaintiff must count upon the law itself
as the ground of his action. And of the other description, would have been an action of trespass, in
this case, had remedy been sought for an actual
levy of the tax imposed. Such was the case of the
fbrmer Bank against Deveaux, and many others
that have occurred in this Court, in which the suit,
in its form, was such as occur in ordinary cases,
but in whish the pleadings or evidence raised the
question on the law or constitution of the United
States. In this class of cases, the occurrence of a
question makes th'e case, and transfers it, as provided for under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, to the jurisdiction of the United Smttea.
And this appears to me to present the only so.kpir
and practical construction of the constitution on
this subject; for no other cases does it regard as
necessary to place under the control of the general
government. It is only when the case exhibits
one or the other of these characteristics, that it is
acted upon by the constitution. Where no question is -raised, there can be no contrariety of construction; and what else had the constitution to
guard against? As to cases of the first description, ex necessitate rei, the Courts of the United
States must be susceptible of original jurisdiction;
and as to all other cases,. I should hold them, also,
susceptible of original jurisdiction, if it were pracOsborn

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ticable, in the nature of things, to make out the 1824.
definition of the case, so as to bring it under the Osbom
constitution judicially, upon an original suit. But
v.
Bank.
S.
U.
his
in
defendant
the
control
can
until the plaintiff
pleadings, I see no practical mode of determining
when the case does occur, otherwise than by permitting the cause to advance until the case for
which the gonstitution provides shall actually arise.
If it never occurs, there can be nothing to complain
of; and such are the provisions of the twenty-fifth
section. The cause might be transferred to the
Circuit Court before an adjudication takes place;
but I can perceive no earlier stage at which it can
possibly be pledicated of such a case, that it is one
within the constitution; nor any possible necessity
fdr transferring it then, or until the Court has acted
upon it to the prejudice of the claims of the United
States. It is not, therefore, because'Congress may
not vest an original jurisdiction, where they can
constitutiqnaliy vest in the Circuit Courts appellate
jurisdiction, that I object to this general grant of the
right to sue; but, because that the peculiar nature
of this jurisdiction is such, as to render it impossible to exercise it in a strictly original form, and
because the principle of -a possible occurrence of
a question as a ground of, jurisdiction, is transt.endingthe bounds of the constitution, and placing it on a groundwhicfi will admit of an enor-mous accession, if not an unlimited assumption,
of jurisdiction.
But,dismissing the question of possibility, which,
I must think, would embrace every other case as
well as those to which this Bank is a party, in what
VOL.IX.

112

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
'
Osbora"

v.

U. S. Bank.

sense can it be predicated of this case, that it ii
one arising under a law of the United States? It
cannot be denied, that jurisdiction of this suit in
equity could not be entertained, unless the Court
could have had jurisdiction of the action of trespass, which this injunction was intended to anticipate. And, in fact, there is no question, that the
Bank here maintains, that the right to sue extends
to common trespass, as well as to contracts, or any
other cause of action. But suppose trespass in
the common form instituted; the declaration is
general, and. the defendant pleads not guilty, and
goes to trial. Where is the feature in such a
cause that can give the Court jurisdiction ? What
question arises under a law of the United States?
or what question that must not be decided exclusively upon the lex loci, upon State laws ? Take
also the case of a contract, and in what sense can
it be correctly predicated of that, that in common
with every other act of the Bank, it arises Out of
the law that incorporates it? May it not with
equal propriety be asserted, that all the crimes and
all the controversies of mankind, arise out of the
iat that called their progenitor into existence ? It
is notbecause man was created, that he commits a
trespass, or incurs a debt; but because, being indued with certain faculties and propensities, he is
led byan appropriate motive to the one action or the
other. Sound philosophy attributes effects to their
proximate causes. It is but pursuing the grade of
creation from one step to another, to deduce the
acts of this Bank from State law, or even divine
law, with as much correctness as -from the law of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

891

its immediate creation. Its contracts arise under 1824.
its own acts, and not under al law of the United Osborm
States; so far from it, indeed, that their effect,
v.
their construction, their limitation, their concoc- U. S. Bank.
tion, are all the creatures of the respective State
laws in which they originate. There is a satisfactory illustration of the distinction between contracts which draw their existence from statutes,
and those which originate in the acts of man, afforded by this act of incorporation itself. It will
be unnecessary to look beyond it. The action of
debt before alluded to, given by the ninth clause
of the seventh section, against the directors, to any
one who will sue, is one of those factitious or sta-tute contracts which exist in, and expire with, the
statute that creates it. Not so with the ordinary
contracts of the Bank; upon the e~piration of the
charter, they would be placed in the state of the
credits of an intestate before administration; there
is no one to sue for them; but the moral obligation would remain, and a Court of equity would
enforce it against their dektors, at the suit of the
individual stockholders. Nor would this be on the
principle of contracts executed under power of
attorney; for, the law applicable to principals
would govern every question in such causes. All
the acts of the corporation are executed in their
own right, and not' in Mke right of another. A
personal existence, with all its incidetits, is given
to'them, and it is in right of that existence that
they are capable of acting, and do act.
Not, indeed, in another point of view, is it
strictly predicable of this Bank, that its acts arise

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

out of, because its existence is drawn from, a law of
It is because it is incorporabsborm the United States.
ted, not because incorporated by a law of the (Jni' v.
.S.Bark. ted States, that it is made capable of exercising
certain powers incidentally,, and of being vested
with others expressly. The same effects would
follow, if incorporated by any other competent lkgislative power, The law of the United States
creates the Bank, and the common law, or State
law more properly, takes it up and makes it what
it is. Who-can deny, that in many points the incidents to such an institution may vary in different
Stateg, although its- existence be derived from the
general goverpment? It is the case with the natural alien, when adopted into the national family.
His rights, duties, powers, &c., receive always a
shade from the lex loci of the State in which he
fixes his domicil.
.If this right to sue could be vested at all in the
Bank, it is obvious that it must have been for one or
more of three causes:. 1. That a law of the United
States incorporated it; 2. That alaw of the United
States vested in it the power to sue; or, 3. That
1824.

"the.power to defend itself from trespasses as applicable to this case strictly, or to contract debts
as applicable to the Georgia case, was conferred
on it by a law of the United States expiessly.
The first I have considered. On the second, no
one would have the hardihood to contend, that such

a grant has any efficacy, unless the suits come
within the description of cases arising under a
law of the United States, independently of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ona

grant of the right to sue; and it only remains to 1824.
ObM
add a few more remarks on the third ground.
osbotu
Of the power to repel trespasses, and to enter
v.
into contracts, as mere incidents to its creation, I U.S.Bazuk
trust I have shown, that neither comes within the
description of a case arising under a law of the
United States. But where will we find, in the law
in question, any express grant of power relative to
either? The contracts on which the Georgia case
is founded, are declared on as common promissory
notes, payable to bearer. 'Now, as mere incidents, I have no doubt of an action being sustainable in a State Court in both cases. But if an
express grant is relied on, as bringing this, .or the
case of a contract, within the description of "a
case arising under a law of the. United States,"
then I look through the- law in vain for any express
grant, either to make the contract, or repel the
trespass. It is true, the sweeping terms with
which the incorporating section concludes, import,
that "by that name it shall and may be lawful for
the Bank to do and execute all and singular tha
acts, matters, and things, which to them it shall and
may appertain to do." But this contains no grant
of either, since the inquiry, at last, must be into
the incidents bf such aD institution, and, as incidents, they needed not these words to sustain
them; nor could those words give any more force
to the right. So that, at last, we are referred to
the mere fact of its corporate existence, for the
bags.of either of the actions, or either of the
powers.here insisted on, as bringing this cause
wRhin the constitutional definition. Havivg a le-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

gal existence as an incorporated banking institu.
tion, it has a right to security in its possessions,
O
v.
and to the performance of its contracts ; but that
. S. Bank. right will be precisely the same, if incorporated by
a State law, or even, as was held in the case of
Terrett v. Taylor, if having a common law corporate existence. The common law, or the State
law, is referred to by the law of th United States,
as the source of these incidents, when it speaks of
the Acts which are appurtenant to it; and I know of
no other law that can defin6 them, or confer them
as incidents. Suppose a naturalization act passed,
-which, after specifying the terms and conditions
upon which an alien shall become a citizen, proceeds to declare, "that, as a citizen, he shall lawfully do and execute all and singular the acts, matters, and things, which to ' a citizen,' or 'to him as
a citizen,' it shall and may appertain to do," would
not these words be a mere nullity ? His new existence, and the relations with the society into
which he is introduced, that grow out of that connexion, give him the right to defend his property
or his existence, (as in this case,) and to enter into
and enforce those contracts which, as an alien, he
would have been precluded from. He was no
more a citizen, without an act of Congress, than
this was a Bank. Finally, after the most attentive
consideration of this cause, I cannot help thinking,
that this idea of taking jurisdiction upon an hypothesis, or even of assuming original, unlimited jurisdiction, of all questions arising under a law of
the United States; involves some striking inconsistenoif. A Court may take cognizance of a ques-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

895

tion in a cause, and enter a judgment upon it, and 1824.
yet not have jurisdiction of the cause itself. Such Osbom
are all questions of jurisdiction, of which every U.
Court, however limited its jurisdiction, must have . B'b
cognizance in every cause brought before it. So,
also, I see not why, upon the same principle, a
law expressly violating the constitution, may not
be made the groundwork of a transfer of jurisdiction. Cases may arise, and would arise, under
such a law ; and if the simple existence, or possibility of such a case, is a sufficient ground of jurisdiction, and that ground sufficient to transfer the
whole case to the federal judiciary, the least that
can be said of it is, that it was not a case within
the mischief intended to be obviated by the constitution. I shall say no more on this subject, but
proceed to one which blso acts forcibly on my
judgment in forming my opinion in this cause.
I will not undertake to define the limits within
which the discretion of the Legislature of the
Union may range, in the adoption of measures for
executing their constitutional powers. It is, very
possible, that in the choice of means as "proper
and necessary" to carry their powers into effect,
they may have assumed a.latitude not foreseen at
the adoption of the constitution. For example,
in order to collect a stamp duty, they have exercised
a power over the. general law of contracts; in order to secure debts due the United States, they
have controlled the State laws of estates of deceased persons and of insolvents' estates; in the
distributions and the powers of idividuals themselves, when insolvent, in the assignment of their

CASES IN THE SU1PREME COURT

1824.

own estates; in the exercise of various powers,

'-Ofl
Osborn

they have taken jurisdiction over crimes which tho

V.

U. S.Bank.

State laws took cognizance of; and all this, being
within the range of their discretion, is aloof from
judicial control, -while unaffectedly exercised for
the purposes of the constitution. Nor, indeed, is
there much to be alarmed at in it, while the same
people who govern the States, can, where they
will, control the, Legislature of the United States.
Yet, certainly, there is one limit to this chain of
implied powers, which. must lie beyond the reach
of legislative discretion. No one branch of the
general government can new model the constitu-

tional structure of the other.
Much stress was laid, in the argumsnt, upon the
necessity of giving co-ordinate extent to the several departments of 'a government; but it was altogether unnecessary to bring this consideration into
the -present case. As a ground of policy, this is
not its proper place; and as a ground of construction, it must be needless, when applied to a con .
stitution in which the judicial'power so very far
transcends both the others, in its acknowledged
limits.
The principle is, that every government should
possess the means of protecting itself; that is, of
construing and enforcing its own laws. But
this is not the half of the extent of the judicial
power of the Union. Its most interesting pro-vince, is to enforce the equal administralioiz of
laws, and systems of laws, over which the kegislative power can exercise no control. And tbus:
the judicial power is distributed into the two

OF THE UNITED STATES.

124.
elaises : .1. That which is defined by tile circuinO3,born
8tanees'of the ease; and, 2. That• which depends "'"
v.
lirst,
the
Ou
persun.
the
of
upon the circumstances
S.J33l1k.
U.
adeis
end
the
that
show,
to
I Jbave, endeavoured
quately effected by the pr ovisions of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and, practically, can be
exercised in no other way. But with regard to
the second class, the argument turns against the
United States; and every reason that may be urged in favour of eking out the jurisdiction in the
first class of cases, reacts forcibly to confine the
jurisdiction strictly within its constitutional limits,
as to the second class. When the alien, or the
oitizen of another State, or the grants of another
State, are implicated, the State Courts open their
tribunals to the judiciary of the United States, and
recognise their power a co-ordinate. Their citiZens, their' territory, their laws, all are subjected
to a power quite foreign to the States, and judicial
power is literally poured out upon the Courts of
the Union, without stint.
How interesting, then, is it to the Statqs, that
he number of those persons who claim the privilege of coming into the Courts of the United
Cases, since
States shbuld be strictly limited!
t ey arise out of laws, &c. of the United States,
mult.be very limited in number; but persons may
bripg jit 9 the :Courts of the United States any
question .and every question, and, if this law be
crrectly construed, for any, the very smallest possible amount.
But if the plain dictates of our senses be relied
on, what state of fact have we exhibited here?
VOL. IX.

113

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
k

Osborn

V.

U. S. Bank.

Making a person, makes a case; and thus, a government whi,!h cannot exercise jurisdiction unless an
alien or citizen of anotl(,r State be a party, makes

a party which is neither alien nor citizen, and
then claims jurisdiction because it has made' a
case. If this be true, why not make every citizen
a corporation sole, and thus bring them all into
the Courts of the United States quo "minus?
Nay, it is still worse, for there is not only an evasion of the constitution implied in this doctrine,
but a positive power to violate it. Suppose every individual of this corporation were citizens of'
Ohio, or, as applicable to the other case, were citizens of Georgia, the United States could not give
any one of them, individually, the right to sue a
citizen of the same State in the Courts of the
United States; then, on what principle could that
right be communicated to them in a body? But
the question is equally unanswerable, if any single
member of the corporation is of the same State
with the defendant, as has been repeatedly adjudged.
One of the counsel who a, gued this cause in
behalf of the Bank, has denominated it a bundle
of faculties. This is very true; but those faculties are substituted for the organization of a natural person ; and it is perfectly certain, that when
it comes into this Court, it must be treated as a
person. It is altogether inadmissible, to refine
away the principles of jurisprudence, so as to consider it in any other light than that of a person.
As such, it sues out a writ, declares, pleads, takes
judgment, and levies an execution. If it is not a

OF TIlE UNITED STi'ES.

person, it has no standing in this Court ; it must, 182.1.
therefore, abandon this suit, or be subjected to
V.
personal disabilities. Gentlemen havea right to
take what ground here they please, to $ust. in this u.S. Bak.
action; but it is perfectly clear to me, that the act
of Congress was intended to vest this right as a
personal right, or not at all. Let any one look
through this act, and notice the unrestricted latitude that has been'issumed in vesting the right to
sue both by and against this Bank, andihe will see,
that either there is no general right to sue given
in the seventh section, now relied on, or that it is
given under the general power granted to pass all
laws necessary to carry the powers of the general
government into execution. The proviso to the
17th section is a remarkable proof of this. It puts
the limits of judicial power altogether out of view.
If Congress, in legislating on this subject, did intend such a grant as is here contended for, it must
be presumed that they did not'advert to the consideration, that granting to an individual a right
to sue, was enlarging the jurisdiction of the Court.
It never can be supposed, that they meant to assume the power of adding to the number of persons who might constitutionally become suitors in
the Courts of the United States. But every difficulty vanishes, when we limit the meaning of the
language of the act, by a reference to the context. In fact, a general power to bring actions in
the Courts of the United States, is so peculiarly
and explicitly personal on the face of the constitution, that it is hard to perceive how Congress
could have for a moment lost siaht of the restric-

CASES IN TIE SUI'REIME COURT

1824.

'.,-,
V.
U.S.Jlank.

tions imposed, in this respect, upon the judicial
power.
Nor had the Bank any idea that this power was
vested in it, upon the ground that every possible
case in which it might be involved, in litigation,
came within the constitutional defiiition of cases
arising unifer laws, &c. of the United States. In
its averments, those on which it claims jurisdiction, it simply takes two grounds : 1. That it was
incorporated by an act of Congress; 2. That the
right to sue was given it by an act of Congress.
But there is no averment, that the cause of action
was a case arising under a law of the United States.
It well knew, that it was a case emphatically arising 9 ut of an act of the. State of Ohio, operating
upon the domic'il of tile Bank, which, although
purchased in right of an existence metaphysically
given it by Congress, was acquired and held aocording to the laws of Ohio, acting upon its own
territory. Technically, these averments cover
only two grounds ; they affirm, 1. That the Bank,
being incorporated by Congress, had, therefore, a
right to sue ; 2. That being incorporated, and having the right to sue conferred upon it by an act
of Congress, therefore, it could maintain this aotion. But yet neither, nor both of these, could
give the right, unless in one of the cases defined
in the constitution, which case is not the subject
of an averment. I would not willingly place the.
case on the ground of mere technicality; -and,
therefore, oily make the observation to show, that
the ground assumed in argument, is an afterthought. I believe that, until'this a'gument,.the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ground now made was never thought of; and I am
at a loss to conceive how it is possible to maintain
the position, that all possible cases in which this

1824.
OsbotA

Y.

Bank shall sue or be sued, come within the de- V.s .Bank

scription now contended for. Tike, for instance,
a trespass or a fraud committed by the Bank, and
suit brought by the injured party, in what sense
could they be said to be eases arising under a law
df the United States ?- Or, take the case of eject-

ment, suppose to recover part of the premises of
the banking house in Philadelphia, and not a ques;
tion raised in the suit, but what arises under the
territorial laws of the country, and what circunstances characterize that as a case of the proper
description to give this Court jurisdiction ? If this
catise of action arises under a statute, why is riot
-the statute referred to, and the provision particutaly relied on, if there is any other than what the
averfnents specify ?
Various instances have been cited and relied
on, in which this right of suit in the Courts of the
United States has been given to particular officers
of the United States. But on these I would remark, that it is not logical to cite as proofs, the exercise of'this right,. in instances which may themselves be the subject of constitutional questions.
It cannot be intended to surprise this Court into
the recogniticn of the constitutionality of the laws
to cited. But there is a stronger objection; no
such instance is in point, until it be shown that
Congress has authorized such officers lo bring
their private contracts and privae cntroversies
into the Courts of the United States. In all the

CASES IN THE SUPRE'ME COURI

/1824.

cases cited, the individual is acting distinctly as
the organ of government; but let them take the
.san. character of a mere contractor,
a factor,. a broker,
U.S.Bank. a common carrier, and then let laws authorizing
them to sue in the Courts of the United States be
passed, and I will acknowledge the cases to be in
point; though I willistill dispute the principle, that
a repetition of error can convert an act into law or
truth. The distinction is a clear one between all
these cases and the Bank. The latter is a mere
agent or attorney, in sorme instances; in "others,
and especially in the cases now before the Court,
it is a private person, acting on its own account,
notclothed with an official character at all. But
the acts of public officers are the acts of government; and emphaticaily so, in suits by the
Postmaster-General; the money to be recovered
being the property of the United States, it may be
considered that they are parties to the suit, just as
those States are to the suits by or against their Attorney-General, where he is by law authorized to
bring and defend suits in his own name officially.
Wken the United States are parties, the grant of
jurisdiction is general. But, there is express law
also for every contract that the Postmaster enters
into, or it will be in vain for him to bring his suit
in his own name or otherwise. It would be in vain
'or him to rely simply on his being made Postmaster under an act of Congress; in which point
al6ne, there would seem to exist any analogy between his case and that of the Bank.
As to the instance of the action given under the
patent law, it has been before remarked, that.sio

OF THE UNITED STATES.

9th

entirely is its existence blended with an act of 1824.
Congress, that to prosecute it, it is indispensable
s
that the act should be set forth as the ground of
v.

action. I rather think it an unfortunate quotation, U.S.Bank.

since it presents a happy illustration of what we are
to understand by those' cases arising under a law
of Congress, which in their nature admit of an exercise of original jurisdiction. The plaintiff must
recover, must count upon the act of Congress; the
constitutional characteristic appears on the record
before the defendant is called to answer;- and the
repeal of the statute before judgment, puts an end
to his right altogether. Various such cases may be
cited. But how the act of Congress is to be introduced into an action of trespass, ejectment, or
slander, before the defendant is called to plead,
I cannot imagine.
Upon the whole, I feel compelled to dissent from
the Court, on the point of jurisdiction ; and this
renders it. unnecessary for me to express my sentiments on the residue of the points in the cause.
Decree affirmed, except as to interest on the
amount of the specie in the hands of the defendant, Sullivan.

