OF THE UNITED STATES..

1824.
Kirk
V.

[LocAz LAw.j

KipK and others, Plaintiffsin Error,
V.

SftmT, ex. dem. PENiN, Defendant in Error.
The act of Pennsylvania, of 1779, "for vesting the estates of the late
proprietaries ofgennsylvania, in this Commonwealth," did not con
6scate lands of the proprietaries which were within the lines of manors; nor were the same confiscated by the act of 1781, for-establishing a land office.
The staiute ofulinitations of Pennsylvania, of 1705, is inapplicable to
an action Qfejectment, brought to enforce the unpaid purchase monay, for landsof the proprietaries within the manors for which warrants had issued.
Wor is the statute of limnitations of 1785, a bar to such an action.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania.
This was an ejectment, brought by the defendant
in error, in the Court below, to recover the possession of certain lanuls in Yorkv county, in the
State of Pennsylvania. On the 4th- of March,
1681, Charles 11. granted to William Penn, the
ancestor of the lessor of -the plaintiff below, that
tract of country which now constitutes the State of
Pennsylvania. , The grant contains special powers
-to erect manors and'to alien the lands, with liber-ty to the alienees to hold immediately of the proprietor and his heirs, -notwithstanding the statute
of quia emptors... On the I1th af July, in the
same year, William Penn, having interested many
persons in his grant, agreed with "the paventuVol. IX.
3

Smith.

242

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Khk
Kirk

v.
Smith.

rers and purchasers" in England, on "certain conditions and concessions," which, being for their
mutual advantage, were to be obligatory in the
future management of the property and settlement
of the province. The 9th of these conditions is,
that "in every 100,000 acres, the Governor and
proprietary, by lot, reserveth ten to. himself,
which shall lie but in one place." In the year 1762,
a warrant was issued for the survey of the manor
of Springetsbury. This warrant recites a former
survey of the same land, in 1722, as a manor;
states the general outlines of such former survey,
and directs a resurvey. This resurveying was
made, and returned into the land office in 1768,
where it has remained ever since. This resurvey
included the lands claimed by the plaintiffs in error, which were held under warrants, of which the
following is a specimen :
"Pennsylvania, ss: BY THE PROPRIETARIES.
"Whereas, lFartholomew Sesrang, of the county of Lancaster, hath requested that we would
grant him to take. up two hundred acres of land,
situate between Codorus creek and Little Conewaga creek, adjoining the lands of Killian Smith
and Philip Heintz, or%the west sidd of the Susquehannah river, in the sdid county of Lancaster, for
which he agrees to pay to our use the sum offifteen pounds ten shillings, current money of this
province, for each hundred acre ; and the yearly
'quit-rent of one halfpenny sterling for every acre
thereof.
"These are, therefore, to authorize and require
you to survey, or cause to bdr surveyed, unto the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said Bartholomew, at the place aforesaid, according to the method of townships appointed, the said
quantity of 200 acres, if not already surveyed or
appropriated; and make return, thereof into the
secretary's office, in order for further confirmation;
for which this shall be your sufficient warrant:
which survey, in case the said Bartholomew fulfil
the above agreement within six months from the
date hereof, shall be valid; otherwise void.
"Given under my hand and seal of the land
office, by virtue of certain powers from
the said Proprietaries, at Philadelphia,
[L. 5.] this eighth day of January, Anno Domini oile thousand seven hundred and
" GEORGE THOMAS.
forty-two.
"To Wm. PARSONS, Sarveyor General."
In virtue of this warrant, a survey of the land
claimed by Caleb Kirk, one of the plaintiffs in error, was made on'the 12th of. October, 1747, in
favou'r of Jacob Wagner, the ihen holder of the
warrant, by various mesne transfers. The title
was regularly deduced by various conveyances,
from Wagner to Kirk, accompanied with possession. No grant was ever issued for the land. Ten
pounds, a part of the consideration, were paid
about the date of the warrant, and there was no
proof ofthe payment of the residue. It appeared
to have been the usage of the proprietaries, not to
insist upon the terms of the contract, by which the
survey was declared to be void, unless the agreement was fulfilled within six months from the date
of the warrant, and large arrearages of purchasf
money remained due after the surveys were made.

24.3
1824.
Kirk

Y.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
r.k
Kirk

v.

Smitb.

bodli within and without the manors. The only
distinction appears to have been, that the reserved
lands were sold by special contract; and the lands
not reserved, were sold at stated prices.
At the commencement of the war of the American revolution, the proprietary went to Great
Britain, where he remained ; and in the year 1779,
the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act, entitled "an act for vesting the estates of the late propt:ietaries of Pennsylvania, iri this commonwealth."
The ejdctment was brought in the year 1819, and
on the trial of the cause, the question wlether the
land in controversy was included within the lines
of the manor of Springetsbury, as surveyed under
the warrant of 1762, was left to the jury, who
found that it was included within those lines. The
opinion of the Court below, was, that if the land
was within those lines, the right of the plaintiff
below was excepted out of the general operation
of the act of 1779, and was not vested in the commonwealth. The court also instructed the jury,
that the statute of limitations of 1'705, commonly
called the-" seven years law," was inapplicable to
the case. To these instructions, the defendant's
counsel excepted, and a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff having'been rendered in the Court below, the cause was brought by writ of error to this
Court.

.March 141h,
18s.

The cause was argued by Mr. Clay and Mr.

Webster for the plaintiffs in error, and by the Attorney General and Mr. Sergeant for.the defendants in error.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

245

On the part of the plaintiffs in error, it was 1824.
contended, 1. That the rights derived to the plainKirk
V.
tiffs below, were proprietary,and not manorial.
Being in their origin_ proprietary, they were not, Smith.
and could not be, affected by the survey of a manor
in 1768, subsequent to their commencement.
2. That the rights, being proprietary,and not
manorial, vested in the Commonwealth of Pensylvania, by the right of conquest, and the act of
confiscation of 1779. The 7th section confirms
all persons, and, consequently, the plaintiffs below, in their rights, derived from the proprietaries.
The act must be -construed according to its intention, ascertained by a comparison of all its parts.
proprietary
The intention was to confiscate the
rights, wherever situated; and to reserve the private or Manorial rights,. wherever located. -If a
proprietary right was situated within a manor, it
was to be confiscated. If it were part of the
manor, that is, of the right springing out of the
manor, it was .reserved. There is no reservation
to the pr6prietaries of the arrears of purchase
money due within manors. There is only an exception from the operation of the abolition of quitrents and arrears of purchase money, within manors; and this exception must be construed to
mean the case of lands bought as part of the
manor. It would be to contradict the whole
scope and meaning of the act, to construe it as
abolishing proprietary rights every where but in
manors, and to leave. them there in full vigour.
According to this view of the act, we shall have a
consistent and congruous interpretation. The pub-

246

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
k
Kirk

V.

Smith.

lie rights of the proprietaries, wherever situated,
will have been confiscated; and the private rights,
wherever situated, will have been preserved. The
Court will look to the nature of the thing, and
not to the accident. If a proprietary right be
situated within a manor, it will be abolished, because it is proprietary. Such is the construction
which the local Legislature itself has put upon
this statute, by the act of 1781, for establishing
the land office,a and by the act of 1784V These
acts are cotemporaneous, and in pari materia.
If, then, the rights of the proprietors were vested
in the State, there remained nothing in them; the
legal title passed to the Commonwealth, and, consequently, they could hot maintain this action of
.ejectment. But if any was reserved, it was only
the arrears of the purchase money, and not the
title, which they might sue for in any manner.
3. That whatever might be the nature of the
claim, (manorial or proprietary,) it was barred by
the statute called the seven years law, passed in
1705, whether the consideration money is paid or
not. This limitation of seven years, appears to
have been a favourite period of protection in
Pennsylvania. William Penn enacted a law to
that effect, in England, the year after he obtained
his charter;' and again, in 1700, the same period
is provided., And a short period of limitation to
a 1 Laws of Penn. 529. preamble and sec. 5.
b 2 b. 102.

c 1 lb. 48.
d 5 lb. 416. art. 16.
e B. Franklin'sAI~p. 9, 10.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

247

protect possessions, is believed to have been the .1824.
favourite policy of all the colonies. The act of
Kirk
1705, to afford the protection which it intends to
V.
Smitb.
enthe
That
1.
circumstances:
two
give, requires
try should .be under an equitable estate. .2. That
there should have been seven years quiet posses
sion. The intention of the act was to protect
the property. The vendQr was at liberty to enforce payment of the consideration money, by all
legal means. Even the laRd itself was not withdrawn from the operation of a judgment. After
seven years, the title was complete, but it was
still liable to execution. If the plaintiffs in ejectment can recover, it is because they have a lien.
Now, if the lien were express, it would have been
barred by the lapse of twenty years; and no lien,
created by operation of law, can be more durable,
than one created by express act of the party. To
support this right of recovery, would be to uphold
a remedy after the right is gone, and to make the
remedy immortal, whilst the right is temporary.
4. That ihe payment of the purchase money
ought to have been presumed; and, consequently,
a perfect equitalile title in the defendants, barring
the action of ejectment. The length of time
elapsed, would have authorized a jury to presume
a charter, patent, or deed. The fact of actdal
payment being made out by presumption, the
Courts of Pennsylvania adopt the Chancery'principle of considering that as done which ought to
a Ricard v. Williams, 7'lTeat. Rep. 119.
b Id. 109.-, 1 PHil. Ev. 119, 120. 125.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

V.
Sith-

be done.- When a party, entitled to a conveyance, does every thing necessary to be done, in
order to obtain a decree for a specific performance,
he stands by the local law, in a situation to support or defend an action for the p.ossession of the
land.
5. That the plaintiffs below were barred by the
statute of limitations of 1785.0 If we had entered by disseisin, our right would have been protected. We entered claiming the whole fee. Our
title and our possession were, therefore, exclusive; that is to say, adverse to every other title or
possession. It is said that it was not adversary,
because we claim from them: but the mortgagee
claims from the. mortgagor, and, nevertheless, is
barred, after twenty years. The idea of an amicable possession, is founded upon confounding
the case with that of leases, reversions, and remainders. If the vendee purchases the whole
estate, his possession, from the moment of his
entry, is adverse to that of the vendor.d But,
from the period of the survey of 1768, there was
an adverse state of possession. The proprietaries set up .their manorial or private right against
their public or proprietary right, and from that
epoch, inconsistent and opposing titles vere
brought into being. From that moment, the statute of limitations began to run. There is no
a Moody v. Vandyke, 4 Binn. 41. Vincent v. Huff, 4 Scrgt.
and Rawle, 301.
b Griffith v. Cochrane, 5 Binn. 105.
c 2 Laws of Penn. 299.

d Blight v. gochester, 7 Wieat. &p. 535.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

249

escape from this dilemma: either the survey of 1824.
i"
the manor did not affect, in any way whatever, the '0
Kirk
previous proprietary right, or it did, and was an
v.
attempt t6 reappropriate to the use of the manor, Smitd
what had been -appropriated before. In the first
case, the right was confiscated; in the latter it is
barred.
For the defendants in error, it was stated, that,
by the royal charter to William Penn, of 1681,
he derived an absolute right of ownership to the
territory within the limits described, and power to
grant, subject to no restribtions but such as he
thought fit to impose upon himself. He came to
Pennsylvania in 1682; and the powers of government~and rights of property were always kept distinct, the former being exercised by the General
Assembly, and the latter by means of an agency,
constituting what is called a land office. Two
principles were early settled, that no sales were
to be made, nor settlements permitted, till the
Indian-title should be extinguished; and that no
title. could origifiate but by grant from William
Penn. In the establishment of the land office,
it was originally intended that no title should
begin but by warrant and survey. But this was
soon broken in upon; every kind of irregularity
occurred; and, finally grew up the title by settlement and improvement.* All these inceptive
rights were under the proprietary, and they were
to be consummated by payment of the purchase
a 2 Smith7s Laws of Pet= I37. Note.
VOL. IX,

92

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

250
1824.
Kirk
Kw-k

V.
Smith.

money and issuing the patent. For that purpose,
the warrant fixed a price and time of payment;
and where t&iere was'no warrant, the price of the
.time was to be paid, which was called "common
terms." The mass of the.country was opened by
opening the land office, but this did not include
proprietary tenths and manors. These last vere
appropriated by tirtue of his own right of ownerohip, and are not to be understood as meaning a
manor in a legal sense, with its court and train of
feudal appendages. The term did not mean a
private reservation, for his own separate upe, to be
taken out of the market, and granted .in a different
mode It meant only' a portion of country, separated from the common mass, so as not to be open
to purchasers (on common terms) or to settlers.
The peculiar and appropriate' mode of granting
in a manor, was a warrant to agree. It was, in
faict, an exception out of the country offered for
sale. No particular form of exceptions was necessary, and none was pursued#" He was subject
to. laws, but only to his own laws. He might be
considered as saying, " So much I will sell at a
fixed price; so much at the value to be agreed."
W. Penn died in 1718, and a dispute arose with
Lord zBaltimore respecting the bouindary line of
Maryland,b which was settled by an agreement
between the two proprietaries, in 1732, and ratified by decree in Chancery, in 1750.0 The line
a 4 DaU. Rep. 407.
b 2 Smith, 133. Note.
0 Penn v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Fes. 444.

OF THE UNITED Sr.ATES.

-was finally run in 1768, and ratified by the King
in Council, in 1769. In 1732, the Marylanders
encroaching, and the Indians growing uneasy,
Sir W. Keith, at the request of the latter, issued
an order to surveythe manor of Springetsbury,
which was accordingly surv.eyed in that year. The
land office was not then open west of the Susquehannah, the Ifidian title not being extinguished.
In 1736, before the land office was opened, Thomas Penn, the proprietary, recognised and adopted
the survey, and thereby gave it validity. In. 1762,
the survey of 1732 having been mislaid or lost,
Gov. Hamilton issued a warrant of resurvey,
which was duly returned into the land office, in
1768, where it has since remained.
When the revolution occurred, the descendants
of the proprietary were the owners of all the vacant lands in the province; they had the legal
estate in.
all lands, to which individuals had only
acquired ineeptive rights, for the purpose of enforcing the terms; they were entitled to all purchase money, and to all quit-rents; they had also
private estates subject to the ordinary legislftion.
The whole, as -then existing, may be arranged
into three classes. (1.) Their private estates,
which may be at once dismissed. (2.) Estates or
rights in lands not included, in. the limits of manors: and these might be legal, or legal and equitable. (3.) Estates or rights in lands included
within'the limits of manors: which might also be
legal, or legal' and equitable. 'And the nature of
their legal right to kinds witlid a manor, would
depend upon the nature of the equity of the oc-

1824.
-j
Kirk
V.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SU'REME COURT

1824.: cupant. Whether his 'equity be more. or less, is
of no consequence at law, -since it does not diKirk
v.
minish the extent or' power of the -legal right.
Smitb. These inceptive rights are passed from hand to
hand; by deed; they descend, are devised, and
"sold by the Sheriff; and ev'ery body knows thdir
nature, and the liabilities to which they arxe subject. The deeds frequently express it, as in the
present instance. Hence the lapse of time affords
no presumption of the payment of the purchase
money, or completion of the title. In truth, there
isno such thing in Pennsylvania as the presumption of a grant.
' This was the state of things at the period
of
the revolution. That event, ipso facto, determined the powdrs, of government conferred by the
charter, but left the rights of property exactly as
they stood before, in which state they remained
until the act of 1779. That act devests the estate
of the ptoprietaries, only by vesting it in the
Commonwealth'. It, therefore, devests no further
than it vests; and as to all besides, leaves it on
the same footing as before. It did not at all
change the relation between the proprietaries 'and
those who. had purchased their lands. 'They then
had, and still have, a land office, to receive purchase moneys and grant patents. The Commonwealth land offf6e, vil1 "htt receive the purchase
money of lands included in the limits of manors,
nor will they grant patents for itL The act thus
bad the effect of making a partition, and from
that time forward there have, in fact, been two land
offices in Pennsylvania. Great indulgence has

OF THE UNITED STATES.

been shown in the collection of the purchase 1824.
money; but the.tenure has never undergone any
Kirk
V."
change, and it has never been doubted that the
legal title remained in the proprietors and the
Commonwealth, respectively, and that they might
at any time enter, to enforce the terms of sale.
The act of 1779 did not assert that the estates
of the. proprietaries had been .devested by the
revolution, nor could that proposition now be
maintained, if the question were open. It did
not profess to confiscate their property, nor could
it justly do so, for they had committed no offence.
Neither did it assert a right of conquest. The
act was not passed to benefit individuals, nor to
alter or lessen their just liability. It was .a partition between the Commonwealth and the proprietary of all their estates, legal and'equitable, of
which the manor lines, were the lines of division.
It left the proprietors, then, their vacant lands,
their legal estates, and all else within the manors.
The terms of the act give no countenance to the
idea, that the legal title was assumed by the Commonwealth, leaving, the purchase money to the
proprietaries. The reservation is of privat.e rights.
But the whole of this question has been long
since disposed of, and it is now considered as
settled law in Pennsylvania, that the legal estate
is in the descendant of the proprietaries, as a security for the purchase moneys
As to.the seven years law of 1705, it hasnever
a

4 Dal Rev.

02. 41Q.

C. C. 6 Li of Penn. 205.

Penn v. Klynej 1 Peter' Rep.

2ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

254
1824.
Kikt

*.

been heard of since the time of its enactment,
and we are, therefore, compelled to look for a
construction of itconsistent with its disuse. Itis
a retrospective law in its very terms, and, having
performed its office at the.time, has been ever
since disused. No such construction as that insisted on, ever could have been given to it.
As to the presumption of payment, it must be
founded, in every such case, both upon the length
of time, and the omission to do what would be done
if the presumed fact did not exist. It is a presumption merely, and may be repelled by circumstances, showing why an earlier demand has not
been made.a No such presumption, therefore, exists, unless the forbearance be unusual, or contrary to what might have been expected. But it has
been. the universal practice to forbear. If there
had been a payment, there would have, been a patent. Where the fact to be proved must appear
by deed, the presumption, from length of time,
does not arise.' The surveys, if made, were never returned ; therefore, there could have been no
payment. The receiver general's books will show
what has been paid.
The statute of limitations of 1785, is not a bar.
To make possession a bar, it must be adverse.o It
may,be adverse as to one, and not as to another.
A possession under one, is not adverse to him.
a Phai. Ev.i18, 119.

b 1b. 117,118.
c 1DallU.7.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

255

Possession under an agreement, is not adverse;a 1824.
and ouster cannot be presumed where the possesvk
Kirk
T.
sion is not only under, but according to .the agreement. To maintain a title, or a claim, of adverse Smtbo
possession, such possession must be adverse at its
commencement, and so continue for twenty years.
There must be, at least, a claim, or colour of title,
adverse or hostile; though it is not necessary that
it should be a good title.' A person who enters
without claim, or colour of title, is deemed to be in
possession in subservience to the legal owner, and
no length of time will make it adverse., The doctrine of adverse possession must be strictly taken,
and the fact must be made out by clear and positive proof, and not by inference. Every presumption is in favour of a possession, in subordination
to the title of the true owner.e If the defendant has
acknowledged the plaiptiffs title, he cannot, .aferwards, dispute it! So, ani acknowledgment, by a
person under whom the defendant claims, that he
went into possessin under the lessors of the
plaintiff, is conclusive against the defendant, as to
tenancy. And though it may not have that effect,
yet it willprevent'possession from being adverse.F
a Barr v. Graz, 4 Wheat. Rep. 213.
b Branett v. Ogden, 1 Johns. Re'p. 230.

Doe v.CampbellH, 12

Johns. Rep. 365.
c2 Caines,183.

13 Johrns. Pe. 118.

d 16 Johns. Rep. 293..
e 3 Johns. Cas. 124. 8 Johns. Rep. 220. 9 Johns. Rep. 163.
12 Johns. Rq. s65. 1O Johns. Rep. 475.
f f Caines, 444. 2 Caines,215. 3 Johns. Rep. 499.
g 2 Johns..Gas. 358. 4Joins.Rep. 230.

250

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. In the present case, it is not disputed, that the de'-'"'Kirk- fendants
went into possession underthe proprietors,
•
v. -and nothing has since occurred to change the chaSmi.
racter of the possession. No one could hold adversely, unless he came in .by title paramount to
the proprietary; and no title against the Commonwealth, or granitee of the Commonwealth, can be
acquired by length of time.a The possession of
lands held by warrant and survey, is nQt adverse
to, but under the Commonwealth.
The cause was continued to the present term
fdr advisement.
February5. : Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL deliveied the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered
by the Circuit Court for the District of Pennsylvania,
in favour of Penn's lessee, who was plaintiff in a
:writ of ejectment. The case depends on a bill of
exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court, expressed in a charge to the jury.
On the 4th of March, in the year 1681, Charles.
11. granted to, William Penn, the ancestor of the
plaintiff in the Circuit Court, that tract of country
which now constitutes the State of Pennsylvania,
By thfis grant, the property in the soil, as well as
ii the right of goverriment, Was conveyed to William Penn and his heirs, in fee simple.
The grant contains special powers to erect monors, and'to alien. ftie lands, with liberty to the
a .lrris v. Thomas, 5 Binney, 77.
?) M'Coy v. Dickinson Collegej 4.Serg.4 Rawle, 305.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

alienees to hold immediately of the proprieto.r and
his heirs, notwithstanding the statute of quia evmptores. OnthellthofJuly, in the same year, William Penn, having interested many persons in his
grant, agreed with the "adventurers and purchasers" in England, on "certain conditions or concessions," which being for their mutual advantage,
were to be obligatory in the future management of
the property and settlement of the province. The
9th of these conditions is, that "in every 100,000
acres, the governor and proprietary,: by lot, reserveth ten to himself, which shall lie but in one
place."
It would seem as if this article should be construed as restraining the power ;f the proprietor.
Being the absolute owner of the soil, it was in his
power, independent of contract, to sell, or not to
sell, any part of it. But, as the value of the lands
must necessarily depend on the. progress of settlement, it was obviously the interest of the great
purchasers and adventurers, as well as of the proprietor, that he should open the country generally
to emigrants. It was also the interest of the proprietor, to make large reservations for his private
use, that he might avail himself of the increased
value to be derived from settlement. To prevent
his checking the advance of the settlements by unreasonable reservations, this article fixes the proportion of land which h may take out of the general stock offered to the public. The great mass
of land was ir the market, to be acquired by any
adventurer, at a given price; but out of this mass,
Vol..

X.

33

57*
1824.
K

Y.
srnit.

'-2r58
1824.
'll Kirk

v.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the proprietor reserved for himself one tenth, to
lie in bodies of not less than 100,000 acres.
The survey reserving these lands .forhis own use,
whether distingbished by the common appellation
of manor, or by any other name, was not to give
any new title to the proprietor. The sole effect
was,. to separate the land so surveyed from the
common stock, and to withdraw it from the market. The survey was notioe to all the world, that
the land was not. subject to individual appropriation on the common terms, but could be acquired
only by special contract.
It was not the intention, because it could not be
the interest of the proprietor, to continue all these
manors, or reserved lands, as unoccupied wastes,
but to sell them at such advanced price as the continuing progress of settlement and increase 'of population would justify. The lands reserved, ftnd
the lands not reserved, belonged equally to the
proprietor, and' were equally for sale. The only
difference between them was, that the lands not
reserved, were offered to the public at a fixed price,
while those.which were reserved, could be acquired only by special agreement. This difference
produced the distinction, of which we have hoard in
argument, and which seems to have been well understood in Pennsylvania, between warrants on the
common terms, and warrants to agree.
In the year 1762, a warrant was issued for the
survey of the manor of Springetsbury. This warrant recites a former, survey of the same land, in
1722, as a manor, states the general outline.s of
such former survey, and directs a resurvey. This

OF THE UNITED STATES.

resurvey was made, and returned into. the land
office, in the year 1768,
- where it has remained
ever since, among the documents of the land
titles in Pennsylvania.
This resurvey included the lands of the plaintiffs in error, which were held under warrants, of
which the following has been selected as a specimen:
"Pennsylvania, ss.: BY

THE PROPRIETARIES.

"Whereas, Bartholomew Sesrang, of the county of Lancaster, bath requested that we would
grant him to take up two hundred acres of land,
situate between Codorus creek and Little Conewaga creek, adjoining the lands of Killian Smith"
and Philip Heintz, on the west side ofhe Susquehannah river, in the said county of Lancaster, for
which he agrees to pay to our use the Bum of fifteen pounds ten shillings, current money of this
province, for each hundred acres; and the yearly
quit-rent of one halfpenny sterling for every acre
thereof.
" These are, therefore, to authorize and require
you to survey, or cause to be surveyed, unto, the
said Bartholomew, at the place aforesaid, according to the method of townships appointed, the said
quantity of 200 acres, if not already surveyed or
appropriated, and make return thereof into the
secretary's office, in order for further confirmation;
for which this shall be your sufficient warrant:
which survey, in case the said Bartholomew fulfil

Z59
1824.
Kirk

v.
Smit.

!26U
1824.
Kirk

V.
9mith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURt'

the above agreement within six months from the
date hereof, shall be valid; otherwise void.
"Given under my hand and seal of the land
office, by virtue of 'certain powers from
the said Proprietaries, at Philadelphia,
[1,. s.] this eighth day of January, Anne Domini one thousand seven hundred and
forty-two.
GEORGE THOMAS.
" To Wr. PARSONS, Surveyor General."
In virtue of this' warrant, a survey of the land
claimed by Caleb Kirk, one of the. plaintiffs in
error, was made on the 12th of October, 1747,
in favour of Jacob Wagner, the then bolder of
the warrant, by various mesne transfers. The
title was regularly deduced by various conveyances, from Wagner to Kirk, accompanied with
possession.
No grant.has been issued for the lands. . Ter
pounds, in part of the consideration, were paid,
about the date of the warrant, and' there is no
proof of the payment of the residue.
It appears to have been the common usage, for
the proprietaries.to give great indulgence to the
purchasers of lands, for the purchase money. Although, by the terms of the contract, the survey
was declared to be -void, unless the agreement
were fulfilled i!1 six months, yet the proprietaries
appear not to have been in'the practice of availin' themselves of this condition. Large a-rearages of purchase money remained due after the
surveys iveie made, which, as the grants were
withheld, were debts upon interest, secured in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

best possible manner. This credit was mutually 1824.
the settlement of Kirk
advantageous. By accblerating
•
the province, it was beneficial to the proprietaries;
and the purchaser could terminate it wheneverit Smith.
ceased to be beneficial to himself.
Until the war of our revolution, this state of
thirgs appears to have continued. The settlements advanced with great rapidity. Manors were
surveyed, lands were sold, and large arrearages
were due for purchases made, both within and
without the manors. The only distinctioii appears
to have been, that the reserved lands were sold
by special contract, and the lands not reserved;
were sold at stated prices.
When the war of our revolution commenced,
the proprietary went to Great Britain, and. was,
consequently, to be considered as a British subject, not as an American citizen. The iight to
confiscate his pr6perty, or to leave it untouched,
was in the - government of Pennsylvania. The
Legislature of that State, for reasons satisfactory
to itself,\ tooi a middle course. In 1779, an act
was passed, entitled "An act for vesting the estate
of the late proprietaries of Pennsylvania in this
Commonwealth." This ejectment was brought
in the year 1819.
On the trial of the cause, the question, whether
the land in controyersy was included within the
lines of the manor of Springetsbury, as surveyed
under the warrant of 1762, was left to the jury,
who have found that it was included within them.
The opinion of the Judges who tried the cause,
was, that if the land was within those lines, the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

262
1824.
K
Kirk

v.

Smith.

right of the plaintiff, in that Court, was excepted
out of the general operation of the act of 1779,
and was not vested in the Commonwealth.
To this opinion an exception was taken, which
has been supported in this Court by arguments,
in part, applicable to warrants of every description; and, in part, to those only which were issued
on the common terms.
In that part of the argument which applies to
all warrants, the plaintiffs in error contend, that
the 5th section of the act of 1779, vests all the
rights of the proprietary in the commonwealth,
with the exception of those only which are reserved by other sections of the same act ; and that
the right to the purchase money, which then remained unpaid, is comprehended within the general words of the 5th section, and not excepted in
any other section.
In considering this argument, it will be necessary to examine the 5th section critically, and to
ascertain its extent with precision.
It enacts, " that all and every the estate, right,
title, interest, property, claim, and demand, of
the heirs," &c. "or others claiming as proprietaries of rennsylvania," "to which they, or any of
them, were entitled, or which to them were
deemed to belong on the 4th day of July, 1776,
of, in, or to, the soil and land contained within
the limits of the said province," " together with
the royalties, franchises, lordships, and all other
the hereditaments and premises comprised, mentioned, or granted in the same charter or letters
patent of the said King Charles the second, (ex-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

263

cept as hereinafter is excepted,) shall be, and they 1824
Mrk
are hereby vested in the Commonwealth of Pennv.
sylvania."
Smith.
which
that
of
description
the
of
The first part
the Legislature intended to vest in the Commonwealth, comprehends all the rights of the proprietaries in the " soil and land" of Pennsylvania, but
comprehends nothing else. It would not, we presume, be contended, that this part of the description would embrace the purchase money due"for
laud, if any such case existed, which had" been
sold and conveyed by the proprietary, and for the
purchase money of which a bond had been taken.
This act could not, we presume, be. pleaded in
bar to an action of debt on a bond given to secure the. payment of money du(: for land. This
section, at least, is directed against the laded
estate of the proprietary, not against his claims
for money.
If this first part of the description does not
reach debts on account of land sold, neither does
the second; It seems almost useless to observe,
that a debt for land sold, is neither "a royalty,
franchise, lordship, or other hereditament;" and
that it forms no part of the premises granted in
the charter.
The subsequent part of the section vests nothing.
It contains only a more ample description of the
absolute and unqualified manner in which the
property,- previously described,-is to vest in th"
Commoniealth. It is freed and discharged from
every incumbrance, claim, or demand what~oever,
asfully as if the said charter, &c. "and all other

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
K
k
Kirk

V.

Smith.

the estate, right, and title, of the said proprieta,
ries, of, in, and to the same premises, were herein
transcribed and repealed."
It is unnecessary to comment on the particular
words of the legislature, which are regularly and
technically applicable to the charter, because it is
too obvious for controversy, that the whole design
and effect of the clause is to show, that the property
described in the preceding confiscating clause, is
to vest in the Commonwealth, freed from- every
trust, limitation, or incumbrance whatsoever. But
the property comprehended in the confiscating
clause, was land only; and the land of the proprietaries, together with the royalties, &c. annexed
to it.
If, then, the particular subject of this-controversy be within the 5th section of the act of 1779, it is
because it is to be considered as land to which the
proprietaries were entitled. If not so considered,
the 5th section does not vest it in the Commonwealth. If it be o considered, the next inquiry is,
whether it be within the exceptions made by the
act.
The 8th section provides and enacts, "that all
and every the private estates, lands and hereditaments of any of the said proprietaries, whereof
they are now possessed, or to which they are now
entitled, in their private several right or capacity,
by devise, purchase or descent; and likewise all
thef land called and known by the name of 'the
proprietary tenths,' or manors, which were duly
surveyed and returned into the land office, on or
before the 4th day of July, in the year 1776, toge-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ther with the quit or other rents, and arrearages of
rents, reserved-out of the said proprietary tenths,
or manors, or any part or parts thereof, which have
been sold, be. confirmed, ratified and established
forever, according to such estate or estates therein,
and under such limitations, uses, and trusts, as in
and by the several and respective reservations,
grants, and conveyances thereof, are.]directed and
appointed."
This section reserves the private estates of the
proprietaries, "and likewise all the lands called
and known -by the name of 'the proprietary
tenths,' or manors, which were duly surveyed and
returned into the land office, on or before the 4th
day of July, in the year 1776."
That the manor of Springetsbury was dulys urveyed, and returned into the land office before the
4th of July, 1776, has not been controverted in this
Court, so far as respects land not sold before the
resurvey, which constitutes the question now under particular consideration; and that the land
for which this ejectment was brought, lies within
the survey describing the external boundaries of
that manor, is established by the verdict of the jury. The dilemma, then, presented to the plaintiffs
in error, is a fair one. The legislhture did or did
not consider the right reserved by the proprietary
to re-enter and avoid the warrant, or to're-grant
the land, as an estate or interest in the soil, as land,
even before such right was asserted. If it was
so considered, and, as land, was confiscated by the
5th section,*then it was likeivise so considered in
the 8th section; and, as land, was excepted 4nd
34
~
YiL. Ix

265
1824.
Kirk

V.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
"J":'

v
Smith.

saved to the proprietary. If the Legislature considered this right merely as a claim to money, secured on the land, then it is not confiscated by the
5th section, but remains to the proprietor, unaffected by it. We can perceive no principle of sound
construction, by which, comparing the 5th and 8th
sections with each other, the 5th shall, so far as
respects land in manors, be made more comprehensive than the 8th ; no principle by which the
confiscating clause shall be made broader than
the saving clause.
It was necessary to reserve the quit-rents expressly in the 8th section, because they may, on
fair construction, be understood to be comprehended in the 5th section; and, consequently, to be
vested in the Commonwealth, if not expressly excepted. The quit-rents would not, indeed, be confiscated by that part of the section which relates to
soil or land; but may very well pass under the
words " oyalties, franchises, lordships, and all
other the hereditaments and premises comprised,
mentioned, and granted in the same charter, or
some of them." The quit-rent is a heroditament,
reserved under the very words of the charter, and
annexed to the seignory. It would not be absolutely improper, to term it "royalty," since similar
reservations are generally to be found in grants
made to'individuals in the royal governments. The
express exception of quit-rents, therefore, without
mentioning the arrears of purchase money furnish no argument in favour of the plaintiffs in erfor. The qttit-rents were excepted in the 8th section. because they would, if not excepted, have

OF THE UNITED STATES

267

been vestedin the Commonwealthby the 5th. The
arrears of purchase money were notexcepted, because they did not pass by ;he 5th section. But 1824.
if the quit-rents were not comprised in the 5th see
tion, theywere abolished in the 9th, and might Krk
therefore, without impropriety, .be included in.th,- Smith.
exception of the 8th, so.far as respects manors.
There is nothing in the Act of1779, which would
lead to the-opinion, that the-Legislature was actuated by a spirit of hostility against the Penn fami:
Ty- No disposition is shown to confiscate the debts
generally, which were due to that family. The
grearobject of the act was, to-transfer the right to
the o78sl of Pennsylvania, from the.proprietary to
the Commonwealth.- This was.a great. and a iational object;: It was of the more pressingimpor
tance at the moment, because no fneans existed at
the time of obtaining titles to ungranted lands, in
consequence of which, as the 4th section recites.
"multitudes of inhabitants were daily emigrating
from the State.'. In accomplishing this great object, theLegislature was not unmindful of die ties
by which Pennsylvania had been formerlyconnected with the proprietor; In dd'ditiontt ihe private
:estates. of.the familyato the manors. actually-sur.
veyed,. and.ta'the, quit-rents received on the lands
sold within those manors, 120,UO0 pounds sterling
are bestowed on the family, among other considerations, "in remembrance of the enterprising spirit
which distinguished the founder of Pennsylvania."
Not only, then, is there nothing in the act evincing
that vindictive, hostile temper, which would justi-t
Nr the Court.in extendinr it. he. fcon.rnrction,. to.

CASES 1N TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
%Kirk
v.
Smith.

objects not fairly embraced by its terms, but its
whole spirit is in opposition to the idea. Taking
this view 6f the subject, we shduld be astonished,
indeed, to find, that the same Legislature which left
untouched the accruing quit-rents on the lands
sold within the manors, as well as those which
were in arrear, should seize the arrears olpurchase
money within the same manors ; that the Legislature should spare, so flr as respected the manors,
that which partook, in its nature and essence, of
the proprietary character, and should seize that
which was, in its essence, private debt, and was
distinguishable from other private debts in nothing
but in the manner in which it was secured.
The 5th and 8th sections, then, leave the arsears of purchase money due for land sold within
Ihe manors, precisely in the situation in which the
act found them.
.- Both parties have resorted to the 9th and 10th
sections of the act.
The 9th section discharges all the lands held
under the late proprietaries, not within the tenths
or manors, from quit-rpents, or arrearages of quitrents, and arrearages of purchase money. And
the 10th section provides " that the said arrearages of purchase money," other. than for lands.
within the said tenths and mianors, shall be accounted to be due-Eiid payable to the Commonwealth."
No man who reads this act, will be at a loss
for the motive wbich induced the draftsman of
the bill'to introduce the 9th section. The 5th and
8th-taken together, would leave all the lands of'

OP THE CN.ITED S'TATE8.

269

Pennsylvania still chargeable with quit-rents, and 1824.
would vest those not within the manors, in the
Kirk
Commonwealth. It was. the intention of the Lev.
Smith.
the
within
not
lands
the
discharge
to
gislature
manors, from this burthen, and a section was necessary for that purpose. Read the section, omitting the words respecting the purchase money of
lands not within the manors, and it expresses,
with plainness and perspicuity, the idelt which has
been suggested. All who are acquainted Wiith
our course of legislation, know, that after a bill
has been framed, and the language adapted to its
objects, amendment: are sometimes introduced
into it, in a late stage 'of its progress, without
being sufficiently cautious to change the language
vhich was adapted to the original matter, so as
to fit it to the new matter contained in the amendient. This can alone account for the perplexity
and confusion of ahe 9th and 10th sections of this
act. The 9th section, which is so perfectly clear
without the words respecting the arrearages of
purchase money for lands not within the manors..
is so embarrassed and confused with them, as to
be scarcel) intelligible; and the whole office of
the.10th section is, fo ves in the Commonwealth
a part of that which the 9th had abolished. Courts
must, however, give to these sections that interpretation which seems best to comport with the
intention of the Legislature.
The 8th section had confirmed to the proprietors, for eveir, the quit-rents reserved in the manors. The 9th, which was intended to abolish all
quit-rents -on all ether land;, comeneres with

270

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

general words, which in themselves would comprehend the quit-rents of the manors, and produo'i
a conflict between the two sections, were not
1824. those general words limited and explained afterKi'k wards. But tkfy are limited and explained by
Smith. the words "other.than the quit or other rents, reserved within the proprietary tenths, or manors,
before mentioned." Between the general words,
however, with which the clause commences, and
those words of limitation, which have been just
recited, are introduced the words, "and arrearages
of purchase money for lands not within the tenths
or manors aforesaid." Because the words of limitation apply to the quit-rents only, and not to the
purchase money, it has been supposed that the
purchase money for lands within, as well as without, the manors, has been abolished, and that
the concluding words of the section, that the
" same lands shall be held free and discharged
therefrom, for ever," apply to the purchase money
of lands within the manors, as-welI as to the quitrents of lands not within the manors.
This construction cannot, we think, be ustained. The general words which introduce the
section, required the exception and limitation afterwards introduced, so far as respected quitrents; but the words respecting purchase money,
contain their limitation within themselves. The
words of description exclude lands within the
manors. No general words are applied to the
purchase money, which require subiequent explanaion or diminution. The words of limitation
,no. rt,. in themseive2. appdrjable (0 IIuiL-rcnLs

OF THE UNITED STATES.

only. When, then, we come to the enacting part 1824.
of the clause, which ordains that the " same
v.
lands-and other hereditaments, shall be held free
Smith.
and discharged therefrom, and from the paymen
there~of, for ever;" -and ask, what are. the same
lands? and from what are they discharged? the
only answer which can be made to the question is,
that "the same lands" are lands not within the
manors;, and that the discharge is "from all quitrents other than the quit or other rents reserved
within the proprietary tenths or manors, before
mentioned," "and arrearages of purchase money
for lands not within the tenths or manors afore
said." That the Legislature deemed it necessary,
by one of these sections, to take from the proprietaries the arrearages of purchase money not within
the manors, and by the other, to vest them in the
Commonwealth, is proof that this was not done
by the 5th.
The inference to be drawn, as we think, from
the 9th section, that the Legislature never lost
sight of the distinction .set up between manors
and the general terr;*ztzy uf the Commonwealth,
is strengthened by the language of the 10th section, which provides and enacts, ".that, in order
to preserve equality among the purchasers of land
under the said late proprietaries, the said arrears
of purchase money, other than for lands within
the said tenths and manors, shall be accounted
to be due and payable to the Commonwealth."
Now, if the Legislature had pupposed itself, by
the preceding section, to have abolished all the
arrears of purchase money due from lands within

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

272
1824.
k
Kirk

v.
Smith.

the manors, how would it- "preserve equality
among the purchasers," to coerce the.payment of
the purchase money for lands without the manors,
to the Commonwealth? Or, what motive can be
assigned for discharging those within the manors
from paying for their lands, and requiring payment from those without the manors. It would
be a caprice for which it would be impossible to
account.
Where the language of the Legislature is clear,
Courts cannot be permitted to assume an intention repugnant to that language, because it imports what they think unreasonable; but words
are not to be forced out of their natural meaning,
to produce what is unreasonable, if not absurd.
The plaintiffs in error also r°ely on the 6th section of the act establishing a land office, passed
in 1781, as amounting, unequivocally, to a confiscation of the rights of the proprietary in the land
in contest.
This proposition is sustained, by applying to all
lands, words which are, indeed, general in themselves, but which are, obviously enough, used by
the Legislature with reference to particular lands,
the right to which was vested in the Commonwealth by the act of 1779.
This act does not purport to be an act of confiscation, but an act for opening a land office for
the lands of the Commonwealth. It does not pitrport to be an act-of acquisition, but of disposition
of that which had been previously acquired. It
commences with a recital, that " many of the
lands in the State. heretofore taken up," &c.,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'are yet unpatented, and the purchase inouy,
and arrearages of purchase money, thereon due,
are vested in the Commonwealth;" " and the
owners and holders of such rights, since the shutring up of the land office, have not had it in their
power to pay in the purchase money and obtain
patents: for 'emedy whereof, be it enacted, that
an office be erected," &c.
The subsequent regulations, then, respecting
the payment of the purchase money, were in
tended for such purchase money only as was already vested in the Commonwealth; and the unpatented lands referred to, are those only, the
purchase money due on which was then vested
in the Commonwealth. It is important, too, in
the construction of this act, to recollece that
the framers of the act of 1779 could not have
intended any interference, by means of a land
office, or otherwise, with the manors. They
remained the propery of the proprietaries, who
were themselves to receive the arrears of purchase
.money, and to complete the titles. The whole
act being framed for the property of the Commonwealth, the general words of the 6th -section must
be understood to be limited to the subject matter
.of the act; that is, to the property of the Commonwealth.
The act directs, that patents shall be issued for
lands for which the purchase money shall be received: and the 16th section directs, that the land,
so granted, " shall be free and clear of all reservations and restrictions, as to mines, royalties,
quit-rebts, or otherwise" Now, the act of 1779
VoL. IX,

273

1824.
Kirk

V.

Smith

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

OW74
1824.
-

Kirk

v.
Smith.

expressly reserves for. the proprietors the quitrents within the manors.

This act, then, cannot

be construed to authorize the issuing patents for
lands within the manors, unless it be also construed to be a confiscation, by implication, of
property expressly reserved for, and vested in individuals, by a preceding act of the Legislature.
This construction, to be justified, must be unavoidable.
But the 12th section appears to the Court to
deserve some consideration. That section declares, "that nothing in the act shall be construed
to extend to lands, not granted in the usual forms
of the land office."
There were, then, lands in Pennsylvania, "not
granted in the usual forms of the land office."
As this case comes on after a general verdict,
on an exception to a charge given by the Court to
the jury, it is incumbent on the person taking the
exception, to show that the charge is erroneous. If
it comprehended this act, of which the Court is
not satisfied, still it is incumbent on the exceptor
to show that lands within manors were " granted
in the usual forms of the land office." This fact
is not shown.

The act of 1783 is ob viously limited to the same
subject to which the act of 1781 applies. All arguments founded on this act are liable, too, to this
additional objection. It was enacted after the
treaty of peace, when the power of the State Legislature over the estate of William Penn, real and
personal, had ceased.
We come now to that part of the argument which

OF THE UNITED STATES

275

applies particularly to warrants issued-on the con-

mon terms, for lands afterwards surveyed as a
manor.
It is contended by the plaintiffs in error, that,
,
such lands, though comprehended geographically Kirk
V.
within the lines of a manor, are not legally a part Smit.
of it; and are not, therefore, either as to the land
itself, or as to the purchase moniey, saved to the
proprietaries, under the act of 1779.
The reservation in the 8th section of that act, iz
of "all the lands called and known by the name of
'the proprietary tenths, or manors,' which -wereduly surveyed and returned into the land. office,
on or before the 4th-day of July, 1776."
It has not been suggested, that the lands which
may happen to be held by common warrants with.
in a manor, are distinguished by a different appellation, and are "not called and knowx by the ge.
neral name given to. all the adjoining lands within
the survey;" but it is contended, that such are not
brought within that part of the description, which
requires that they should be "duly surveyed."" Although lands for which a conditional warrant had
previously issued, be, in fact, mirveyed as a manor.
it is insisted that such survey was not duly made.
This is giving to the word " duly,"'a meaning
which, in the opinion of the Court; was not intended by the Legislature.
The act of 1779 conferred no new right oh the.
Penns, but left them in possession of their pre-ex.
istingrights, whatever they might be, within a described territory.. It did not interfere with any
controversy which might eiist between Pcun and

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

276
1824.
-

Kirk

'versy

v.

Smith.

others within that territory, but left such contro.
to be decided between the parties, as if the
law had never been passed. The act is simply an
adjustment between Penn and the Commonwealth.
It refers to a fact of public notoriety, as 'marking
the lines of division between them. That fact is.
a survey, duly made and returned into the land
office, before the 4th of July, 1776. The survey
must be understood as one entire thing, describin(
the particular tract of couritry surveyed, and 1hw
words "duly made,' mean, made according to tdw
forms prescribed b5y law or usage. It was very
well known, that, within these sut oys,; sonic landg
were sold, and some were not sold. On nil which
were sold, quit-rents were received, and on some
of them, the purchase money was still due. With
the land, if not sold, with the quit-rents and pun.
chase money, if sold, the Legislature, as has been
already shown, declares its purpose not to interfere. There is nothing- in the language, nor ii..
there any thing in the character of the transaction,
which would lea*d to the opinion that the Legisla
ture intended to discriminate between the different rights of the proprietaries within the manors.
The hand of government is not laid upon the manors, and all the rights of the proprietaries within
those boundaries, whether to land, purchase money,
or quit-rents, remain untouched. There can be
no conceivable reason for supposing, that the Lo
gislature meant to inquire into the dates of the
warrants evidencing ihe sale of lands, while the
right to sell was acknowledged, and to discharge
one contract ot'sale within the untoucheil buunda.

OF THE UNITED STATES

ry, while another remained valid. The words 1824.
make no such distinction, and we can perceive
Kirk
v.
nothing in the nature of the property which -will
Smith.
it.
making
in
Court
justify the
If we trace these words, "manors," and"proprietary tenths,'" to their first use, we shall find reason to confirm, not to change, the sense in which we
suppose them to have been used in the act of 1779.
By the 19th section" of the charter, license is
granted to William Penn, and his heirs, "to erect
any parcels of land, within the province aforesaid,
into manors." There is no restriction on this
power, which confines its exercise to lands which
are vacant at the time. There was, then, no want
of power in Penn to comprehend'within a manor
lands which were actually sold. The rights of the
purehaser, the tenure by which he held his property, could not be changed, nor would they be changed, by including his land within the. survey of a
manor.
The proprietary tenths originate in the "1conditionsor concessions agreed on between William
Penn and certain, adventurers and purchasers, on
the 11th of July, 1681. The 9th condition, or
conces.sion, is:. "In every 100,000 acres, the governor and proprietary, by lot, reserveth ten to
himself,which shall lie but in one place."
Nowi, it is very. apparent that, suppQsing this stipulationto be. a fundamental law, and to enure to
the benefit of all -the inhabitants, it can only restrain -the proprietary from reserving more than
ten out of every 100,000 acres of land, and compel
him tolay it offin one body. If within any survey

278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of 10,000 acres, there should be some lands previously granted, the survey'would certaiuly not.impair those grants ;hor would those' graz ts vitiate
1824. the survey. The respective rights of the u'arties
m& would depend upon the law, which would decide
. that the purchaser should hold his land, on complying with .-the- conditions of the purchase; and
that, on his failing to complywith them, the proprietary might either indulge him by giving further
time, or. might re-enter-and hold the land, or regrant it. ' In the event of re-entry, it can scarcely
be contended, that this land would not be considered as a part of the proprietary tenth, provided
it did not swell the amount of the reservation beyond the tenth which might be legally reserved.
The including of -lands previously sold, within a*
urvey-of a reserved tenth, as it would give the
proprietary no new right against the purchaser,
might sink so much of his reservation, but could'
produce no bther question than might arise between him and the purchaser, respecting the validity of the sale. These are questions with which
the Legislature of 1779 manifested no intention to
interfere. 'It will not, we presume, be doubted,
that the words "manors"'and ".proprietary tenths,"
have the same meaning throughout the act ; that
theyalways designate the same lands; that, when'
used'in reference to quil-rents.'thpy have the same
meaning as when used in reference to the arrears
of purchase money.
Now, it appears, from the statement of the testimony made in the charge of the Court to the
jury, which is the oihly regular informatiozi of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

279

evidence given in the cause, that an agreement

1824.

was entered into, in 1736, between the proprie-

%.'
Kirk

tary and a number of the inhabitants, by which
he engaged -to make them tides for certain specifled quantities of land in their possession, 6n the
common terms. This agreement is stated to have
been afterwards carried into execution. The contract, as stated, contains unequivocal proof of
having been made under the idea that the survey
'of -1722 was valid, that it related to lands within
the lines of that survey, a'nd that the land within
its lines was considered as a manor. That survey
may not have been attended with those circumstances which would bring it within the saving of
the act of 1779, and, certainly, in this. cause" is
not to be considered as a valid survey of a manor.
It was, nevertheless, believed, in 1736, by the
parties to this contract, to be a manor; and those
proceedings which took place respecting lands
within it, are, consequently, such as might take
place respecting lands within a manor. We find
sales of land made to fifty-two persons, upon the
common terms, and grants made to them according to contract. When the final survey was made,
comprehending ihese lands "as beipg part of the
manor of Springetshury , were they less a part of
that manor because they were granted as a part
of it before that survey was made? When, in
1779, the Legislature- excepted from confiscation
the quit-rents ".reserved out of the said proprietary tenths or manors," is it credible that they
intended to create a distinction, never heard of
before, between the quit-rents on lands lying.

V.
Smirth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. within the lines of the manor, and sold as part ot
"ir
the manor, to depend on the terms or the time of
Kirk
V'. the grant?
Smith.
The defendants in the Circuit Court gave in
evidence, fifteen instances of lands lying within
the manor being settled for on the common terms.
Were these lands 'excluded from the manor by
being so settled for? Did the Legislature of
1779, when about to save for the proprietaries
the quit-rents reserved out of manors or proprietary tenths, or out of land comni6nly called
and'known by the name of manors or proprietary tenths, which were duly surveye'd and toturned into the land office, on or beforo the
4th of July, 1776, fix its mind on the survey to
which reference is made, or on the dates and
terms of the grants made for lands within the survey? If on the survey, then the Jangtiage expresses the intention; if some other distinction
was designed, it is strange that no words were
inserted pointing to such distinction. The Legislature intended .to confiscate the estates of the
proprietaries in part, and 'in part only. The line
of partitipn between the Commonwealth' and the
Penn family, was to be drawn. It was the province of wisdom and of justice to make this line
a plain one. It was proper that the Commonwealth, -and Penn, and the people of Pennsylvaniia, should be able distinctly to discern it. If
the lines of the manors, as surveyed and returned
in the land office, before the 4th of July, 1776,
constitute the dividing lines between the parties,
they are plainly and distinctly drawn. If some

OF THE UNITED STATES.

imaginary distinctions tire to be made between
the lands comprehended within those lines, or the
quit-rents reserved onthose which had been sold,
the whole certainty of the division is lost, unless
some other line, equallI plain, equally' rational,
and equally justified by the words of the act, can
be substituted. Is this practicable in the case
before the Court? Extensive saleswere made in
a tract of country, supposed by the seller and the
purchaser to be a manor. Other sales were made,
containing in the contracts no intrinsic evidence
that the parties understood the lands to be within
a manor. The purchase money, in both cases,
is paid, and deeds are made, reserving the usual
quit-rents. To. ascertain the real boundaries of
the manor, to make a legal survey of it, if one
had not before been made, a warrant of resurvey
is issued, and a survey made and returned into
the land office, comprehending both these classes
of lands, with others which were at the same time
vacant, as being within the manor. When the
Legislature saves to the proprietaries the quitrents out of lands sold within the manors, can a
distinction have been intended between those
lands which were qold as part of the manor before,
and those which were sold after the resurvey?
If it be assumed, where the warrants contain no
evidence of being intended for manor lands, that
the parties or the proprietaries were ignorant of
their being comprehended within a manor, whatdifference, in reason, can this make? The ladids
were eqiialfy liable to quit-rents in the one case
and the other. They were equally within a manor,
VOLt. IX.

36

1824.
Mirk

v.
SmLtb.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

V.
Smih

whether known or not known to be within it.
Could the Legislature have a motive in the one
case more than in the other, for abolishing these
quit-rents? If the motive existed, it would be
shown in.the language adopted. But the search
for it in the language of the Legislature, would
be ao fruitless as in the reason of the case. The
Court cannot set up this -distinction.
If the word manor, when used as describing
territory within which quit-rents are saved, comprehends lands sold before the resurvey, then:the
same word, when applied to the arrears of purchase money, retains the same meaning.
It has been urged in argument, that the Legislature intended clearly to distinguish between the
rights of Penn, as an individual, and his rights as
proprietor. The first were reserved; the last
were confiscated. This distinction, so far as respects the subject of the prosent controversy, is
not to be found in the law. The 8th section confirms to the proprietaries all their private estates,
"and likewise all the lands called and known by
the name of the proprietary tenths or manors."
These proprietary tenths.or manors, then, did not
compose a part of, but were in addition to, their
private estates. They were held too by precisely
the'same title by which other lands in Pennsylvania, not sold nor reserved, were held Nor was
there any new modification of that title. They
were withdrawn from the mass of property offered
for sale on the common terms; .but were still held
by Penn, solely as proprietor under the charter.
The quit-rents, too, were clearly an appendage

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the origial grant, retained on the lInds which
were sold, and retained by Penn in his chaiacter
as proprietor. Yet these are expressly saved to
him. There is, then, in the act of 1779, no intention to make the private and proprietary rights
of Penn the criterion by which the line of partition between him and the Commonwealth should
be ascertained; but there is a clear intention to
divide his proprietary estate, and to make his surveys of manors the criterion by which this line of
partition should be ascertained.
This result is, we think, very clearly produced,
so far as respects the soil, by the 5th and 8th sections; and is, we think, produced not less clearly
with respect to the arrears of purchase money, by
the 9th and 10th sections. Strike out those sections, and there is nothing in the act which can
reach the arrears of purchase money, within or
without the manors. They wduld, like other debts,
remain the property of the creditor. The 9th section expressly abolishes "the arrearages of purchase moneys for lands not within the tenths or
manors aforesaid ;" and if, as we think, the tenth,
or manor, was in the minds of the Legislature, described by a survey thereof, made according to
law or usage, and returned into the land office before the 4th of July, 1776, then the lands on which
the arrearage of purchase money is claimed, in
this case, are within one of the aforesaid tenths, or
manors.
We think, then, that the lands, or the purchase
money, which the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court

286
1824.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

V.

Sit.

claim in this case, are not confiscated by aziy act
of the State of Pennsylvania.
Before we take leave of the act of 1779, it may
be proper to inquire, whether it has any operation
on the lands lying within the manors, and vhich
had been sold, but not granted, the term* of sale
not havin'g bedn complied with. It will be recollected, that those on whose property this law acted,
were the subjects of an enemy, and that the Legislature possessed full power over their estates.
Having the -power to confiscate absolutely, they
might modify that power in its exercise, as to them
might seem proper. The 7th section provides
and enacts, that &ll the rights, &c. which were derived from the proprietaries, or to which any person other than the said proprietaries were entitled,
"either in law or equity," by virtue of any deed,
patent, warrantor survey, of,in.
or to any part or
portion of the lands contained within the limits of
.this State, or by virtue of any location filed iithe
land office before the 4th of July, 1776, shall be,
and they are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established for ever, according to such estate or estatbs,
rights or interests, and under such limitations or
uses as in and by the several and respective grants
and cobveyanoes thereof are directed and appointed.
This secion comprehends all the lands withii
the State, whether within or without the manors,
to which any individuals, had derived a title from
the proprietaries, either in iaw or equity, by virtue
of any deed, patent, warrant or survey, and confirms such title according to the estate, right or in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

285

terest conveyed. That the section operates alike 1824.
on lands within and without the manors, and that Kirk
v.
it confirms titles under warrants or surveys, fo7
Smith.
cerare
paid,
been
has
money
which the purchase
tain. It is equally certain, that it does not interfere with the arrears of purchase money which may
still be lue, because that whole subject is taken
up and disposed of in the 9th and 10th sections of
the act. The doubt is, whether it has any influence on any lands, the purchase money for which
"had not been paid; and if any, how it affects the
title to such lands.
The right of re-entry was reserved as a security for the payment of the purchase money, but
does not appear to have been exerted, and was
probably considered in the light of a mortgage, to
be used merely as the means of enforcing the fulfilment of the contract, not as absolutely terminating
the estate. That the proprietaries looked on for
a great number of years, and saw lands held under
warrants void on their face, for the failure to fulfil
the contract within the specified time of six .months,
and never, in a single instance, so far as appears in
the.,case, or has been alleged in argument, attempted to avoid the estate, would certainly, afford a
strong equity to such purchaser against the pr.oprietary, should such an attempt be made. And that
ejectments were maintained on such titles, is also
evidence of the opinion entertained of them in the
Courts of Pennsylvania. It seems to hav been
understood by all, that the proprietary was to avail
-himself of the condition in the Ivarrant, for no
other purpose than to coerce the payment of the

M6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Mrk

v.

purchase money. This became, from usage, a
kind of tacit agreement, which their real interest
required all parties to observe. Yet, when a new
state of things was introduced, it was natural for
that numerous class of pur.chasers, who had not
paid .up the whole of the purchase money, to be
uneasy at the hazard in which their titles were involved ; and their representatives would very naturally feel disposed to quiet their minds, on this
interesting subject. It would not be unreasonable,
to suppose the existence of a disposition to make
the contract expressly what it was understood to
be, and to do away the forfeiture, except as a mode
of enforcing payment of the arrears of purchase
money. The confirmation of titles, by their own
terms void, for non-payment of the purchase money, accompanied with the preservation of the
right to the purchase .money, admits of the construction, that the clause of forfeiture'may be used
to enforce the payment of those arrears, but not as
extinguishing the estate. At all events, this section has the samne application to lands within, as
to lands without the manor; and the construction
it has received with respect to the one, may.serve
as a rule for the other.
The next exception to be considered, is to that
part of the charge, which declares the act of 1705,
commonly called'the seven years law, to be inapplicable to the case. That act enacts, " that
seven years quiet possession of lands within this
province, which were first entered 6n upon an
equitable rights shall for ever give an unquestionable title to the same against all, during the es-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tate whereof they are or shall be possessed, except 1824.
in cases of infants," &c.
v.
It has been contended, that this act is merely
smithi
it
opinion,
this
of
support
in
retrospective; and,
has been said, that for more than one hundred
years it has never been resorted to in the Courts
of Pennsylvania.
To this argument it is answered, that the language of the act is prospective, that it purports
to be an act of limitations, that it is found among
the printed statutes of Pennsylvania, and that its
operation has never been denied, so far as we are
informed, in any of the Courts of that State. During the irregularities which take place in the first
settlement of a country, an act of limitations is
peculiarly desirable, and it would bo strange if
Pennsylvania should have remained entirely without one. The 16th section of the laws agreed
upon in England, enacts, "that seven years quiet
possession shall give an unquestionable right, except in cases of infants," &c. An act of the same
import as to possession, without any exception in
favour of infants and others, was passed in 1700,
butwas repealed in England, in 1705, in which
year the act was passed which is now under
consideration. The people of Pennsylvania had
one uniform and constant wish on. this subject.
Neither the 16th section of the laws agreed on in
England, nor the repealed act of 1700, can be
considered as retrospective; and there is some
difficulty in giving this construction to the act of
1705. But, the Courts of Pennsylvania having
never considered this act as having the effect of

288
1824.
Kik"
v. Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

an act of limitations, this Court is not inclined to
go furtheri than they have gone. If, however, it
were to beso considered, it must be governed by
those rules which apply to acts of limitation gonerally.
One of these, which has been recognised in the
Courts of England, and in all others where the
rules established in those Courts have been adopted, is, that possession, to give title, must be adversary. The word is not, indeed, to be'found in
the statutes; but the plainest dictates of common
justice require that it should be implied. It would
shock that sense of right which must be felt
equally by legislators and by Judges, if a possession which was permissive, and'entirely consistent with the title of another, should silently bar
that title. Several cases have been decided in
this Court, in which the principle seems to have
been considered as generally acknowledged ;a
and in the State of Pennsylvania particularly, it
has been expressly recognised. To allow a different construction, would be to make the statute
of limitations a statute for the encouragement of
fraud-a statute to enable one man to steal the
title of another by professing to hold, under it.
No laws admit of such a construction.
The true question then is, whether the occupancy of those who held under these conditional
warranuts, was consistent with, or adversa F .,to,
a, See Alexander v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch, 462. Base v. Gray,
4 WFwat. Rep. 213. MA'Clary v. Ross,-.3 lheat.. 'Rep. 116.
Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. Rep. 59.

- OF THE UNITED STATES.

289

the title -of the proprietaries.? Upon the answer 1824.
to this question, it seems difficult to entertain a
serious doubt. It is reasonable to suppose that
v.
the practice of selling lands on credit, and of Smith.
issuing warrants in the form of that which is inserted in this case, and of holding the legal tide.
to secure the payment of the purchase money,
prevailed from the first proceedings under the
charter, until the declaration of ipdependence, a
period of near one hundred years. In the particular case before the Court, credit was given from
the year 1742; and we are not informed, and,
consequently, have no reason to suppose, that
this indulgence was singular. The legislation of
Pennsylvania on the subject, justifies the contrary
opinion; for we perceive among their printed statutes, several of a late date, giving farther time to
pay in the purchase money for lands sold before
the 10th of December, 1776. These acts of farther indulgence, continued for such a length of
time, furnish strong evidence that the cases were
very numerous to which those acts would apply;
and show, too, that in the opinion of the Legislature, no act of limitations had barred the claim.
Now, this practice, in which the proprietaries,
and a great portion of the population of Pennsylvania, concurred, is incompatible with the idea
that the tide of the purchaser became adversary to
that of the proprietary, within six months after
the date of the warrant of survey. In the case
before the Court, the survey was made, in fact,
upwards of five years after the, date of the warrant. Is it conceivable that the surveyor, who
1o,01.
37

290
1824.
Kirk
'' V.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was an agent of the proprietary, would have made
the survey, had he supposed it to confer a title
adversary to that of his principal? a title which
would enable the holder, by remaining quiet only
one year and three months longer, to set the
proprietary at defiance, and to hold the land discharged from the contract by which it was acquired. The very practice of holding back the
title* and of giving such extensive indulgence for
the payment of the purchase money, seems to demonstrate a general opinion, that, so long as this
state of things continued, the title to .the land
was still in the proprietary, and the purchaser acknowledged his title. 'The occupation of the
purchaser was with the consent of the proprietary, and, consequently, not hostile to his rights.
The proprietary permitted the purchaser to hold
the land, subject to his claim to the purchase money; and the purchaser held under the admission,
that the land rcmained liable to the purchase
money, and that the proprietary might, at any distance of time, assert his title to it, so far at least
as to secure his purchase money. There seems
to have been a mutual understanding and a mutual confidence between the parties. How far the
proprietary may have had it in his power to violate this confidence, by seizing the land, and refusing to convey it on a tender of the residue of
the purchase money, is a question which does not
appear ever to have been determined, or ever to
have occurred. But, certainly, during this state
of things, the purchaser could not be considered

OF THE UNITED STATES..

as holding a possession adversary to the title which 1824.
he acknovledged.
V.
It has .been contended, that the .survey of the
smith,
under
estate
the
of
manor was a determination
the warrant, and the assertion of an adversary title,
from which time the act of .limitations began to
run.
There is certainly nothing in the fact itself,
which supports this proposition. All the transactions of the parties contradict it. There is no fact
which shows a disposition in the proprietary to reenter on any lands for which a war -ant had previously been granted; nor is any case of such re-

entry shown, from the first settlement of Pennsylvania. Several instances are mentioned, of grants
completed on the common terms, within the manor
of Springetsbury, while it was considered by the
parties as a manor.. No inference, then, is to be
drawn from the facts in the case, favourable to the
conclusion, that te survey of a tract of country as
a manor, was considered as determining the estates
created by surveys on warrants previously issued,
the conditions of which bad not been fulfilled by
the purchasers. This must be a conclusion of law,
from the single act of survey, so inflexible as not
to be influenced by the intention with which that
act was performed, and the opinion prev.iling at
the time, as attested by usage, or the argument
cannot be sustained.
But how is this conclusion of law to be. supported ? The survey of a large tract of land cannot beconsidered as an entry on a smaller tract within
its lines, as an ouster of the occupant, or even as a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

292
1824.
Kirk

V.

Smith.

trespass on him. How, then, can such survey be
considered as having any legal effect different
from the intention with which it was made ? It is
indispensable to the argument, to maintain that the
mere act of survey does, of itself, in point of law,
show an intention inconsistent with the continuance of any conditional estate, within the limits of
the manor. This the plaintiffs in error have endeavoured to maintain; and for this purpose have
contended, that a new title, which they call the
"manorial title," and which they say is distinct
from the proprietary title, was created by the survey: that the plaintiffs in error hold under the
proprietary title; the plaintiffs in ejectment, under
the rhanorial title. Their claims are, consequently, adversary to each other.
But this argument cannot be reconciled with
the fact. No new title was created by the survey. There was no source from-which titlecould
be derived, othei than from the proprietary himself. The survey wds, not to give a new title, but
to separate a certain tract of land from the general mass, which was offered to every adventurer.
The effect of this survey was, not to avoid contracts already made, but to give notice to the public, thati these lands were thereafter to be acquired
by special contract only. The act of 1779 found
this to be the existing state of things; and, in dividing the estates of the proprietaries between
the Commonwealth and the former owners, adopted the lines of the manors as the lines of partition
between them. This created no new title, but left

OF THE UNITED STATES.

293

to the proprietaries their former title, within the 1824,
described boundaries.
Kirk
V.
in
the
law
either
We perceive, then, nothing,
Smith.
show
to
tends
which
or the fact-of this transaction,
that the possession of the plaintiffs in error has
been adversary to the rights of the person under
whom he originally claimed.
Having considered the act of 1705 as if it were
an act of limitations, all the reasoning which has
been applied to that act, applies also to the act of
1785, on which the 8th exception is founded. The
several treaties forpned with Britain, have a very
important influence on the time which has elapsed
since the war between the two countries.
The opinion that the plaintiffs in ejectment have
still a right, notwithstanding the acts of 1705 and
1785, to proceed at law, presupposes their consent
to the continuance of the original title, created by
the warrant; for if the possession taken under the
warrant or survey was not continued with the consent of the proprietary, it immediately became adversary, and the act of limitations immediately
commenced. If, then, there be any case in which
this assent is not to be presumed, that is a case in
which the plaintiff in ejectment is barred by the act
of 1705 or 1785.
If, as the Court thinks, the rights of the propriethries were converted, by long acquiescence in the
usage which must have been known to them, of
selling the lands, as being liable only for the purchase money; or, by the 7th section of the act of
1779, or by both, united, into a mere right to the
purchase money, still the remedy of proceeding

294

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

V.
Smith.

against the land for the purchase money remains,
and is not taken away by the act of 1779. That
act, having reserved the purchase money for the
proprietor, must, of course, be construed to reserve
his remedy, unless it was expressly taken away.
It is not easy to point out any other remedy than
this, by ejectment. The original purchaser has
transferred; and were his representatives even
still liable for the purchase money, which is far
from being admitted, they may not be able to pay
it, if they could be found. It was not on their personal responsibility, but on the land itself, that the
vendor relied. His claim was attached. to the
land, and passed with it. The remedy reserved is
on the land, not on the person. It would be difficult to form an action at law against the person ;
and in Pennsylvania, there is no Court of Chancery, even if a bill in equity could be sustained. The
remedy must be by ejectment.
There are other exceptions in the record, which,
though not pressed, have not been waived. It was,
therefore, the duty of the Court to examine them.
The result of that examination is, that the only serious questions in the cause are those which grow
out of the acts of 1705 and 1779. These having
been rightly decided, there is no error, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice JOHNSor4, dissented.-The reasoning upon this cause, must be utterly unintelligible
to those who hear it, unless premised by the following state of facts:
The grant to William Penn, vested in him and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

295

his heirs, both the soil and sovereignty of the State 1824.
of Pennsylvania, subject to a few reservations of
Kirk
V.
here.
noticed
to
be
material
not
right and power,
But, before his colony took their departure from Smth
England, he entered into a variety of stipulations,
restricting the exercise of both his power and
rights over the territory which they were about to
occupy. These are known by the epithets of his
conditions or concessions; and it is by one of the
articles of this instrument that he precludes himself from setting ppart more than one tenth of the
soil, for the several and individual use of his family. The rest was to be granted out to settlers,
on terms which were to be-common to all except
those who purchased within the proprietary tenths,.
with whom he was at liberty to contract, as he
pleased for the sale of his lands.
By the 17th section of the charter, there was
power given to the proprietary to erect manors,
with right 'of court-baron, frank-pledge, &e., and
to grant the land therein, for -estates, which the
grantees could not devest of the incident of being
held directly of the manor, or the grantee of the
manor, who is denominated lord of the manor.
The manor of Springetsbury, within which this
land lies, was surveyed for the use of the proprietaries, and surveyed as a manor. There was evidence in the cause belowi of its having been laid
off as early as 1722, but it was certainly resurveyed in 1768; and as the Court below rested the
case upon the effect of the resuriey, as equivalent
to an original appropriation, I presume the case'
does not require that we should look beyond it.

296

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

v.

Smith.

The titles under which the defendants below (and
plaintiffs in appeal,) defend their possession, originated in 1747 and 1748, and would be entitled
to unquestionable precedence, but for the following facts: The warrants of survey contain a condition in these words, "which survey, in case the
said A. B. fulfil the above agreement within six
months from the date hereof, shall be valid, otherwise void." The agreement here referred to
was, to pay a sum of money, (called, with reference to its fixed amount, the common terms,)
in six months. A portion, about one third, of this
sum, it appears, was paid, but there was nothing
in the cause to sustain the payment of the residue,
*unless it was possession, lapse of time, and supposed acquiescence of the proprietaries. When
the manor was surveyed in 1768, there were many
of these individual land-holders comprized within
the lines then laid off, all holding on the common
terms; and there were, afterwards, many other
tracts sold, upon what are called, in the peculiar language of that country, the terms agreed ;
13y which is understood, according to a value to
be adjusted, without confining the vendor to the
common terms. Such tracts were sold out to the
purchasers of this class, s Penn's individual property. Upon all these lands there were reserved
a small annual sum, called quit-rents. In the
year 1779, the Legislature passed an act, entitled,
an act "for vesting the estates of the late proprie"taries of Pennsylvania in this Commonwealth,"
by one section of which, the proprietary tenths, or
manors, are granted to the proprietaries. " toge-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ther with the quit-rents and other rents reserved
thereon." By another, all the lands of the State,
except those within the tenths or manors, are
exempted from quit-rents, and released from any
lien for balances of purchase money, which purchase money is vested in the Commonwealth.
The question is, whether the lands within the
manors, granted out to individuals ptevious to surveying the manors, are entitled to the benefit of
these exemptions, in common with all lands of
the same class within the State; and the action
below is an attempt to exclude from that benefit
those prior grantees, under the idea that they are
excepted by the effect of the reservations infavour
of the proprietaries. And this supposed right of
the proprietaries is asserted through the medium
of an action of ejectment, under the idea that the
legal estate is in the grantee of the manor, and
only an equitable interest in the tenant, the prior
purchaser.
The received doctrines on the subject of what
creates a legal estate in a grantee, it must be observed, are altogether peculiar in the State of
Pennsylvania. A warrant, a survey, and payment
of the consideration money, is held to give an absolute estate in fee, though not consummated by
a patent. This subject came on to be considered
by this Court, as early as the year 1799; and the
law was then clearly recognised to be as I here
state it. Judge Iredell uses the expression, as applied to a title so acquired, " a legal title, -as distinguished from an equitable title."
a 3 Dallw, 457.-465.
VoL. IX.

297
1824.
Mirk

V.
Smitb.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182 4.
kk
Kirk

V.
Smit

The peculiarities of the, form in which this
question comes up, must be attributed to local
practice. ' The charge given by the Court, on summing up to the jury, is copied into the record,
and exceptions taken to those parts of it which
were unfavourable to the defendants below. These
exceptions were ten.in number; but only the 4th,
7th, 8th, and 10th, hav been insisted on in argument here. Of these,. I consider the last in
numerical order as proper first to be noticed. It
is expressed in these words: " Because the evidence exhibited manifested the absence of legal
title in the plaintiff's lessee, whereas the Court
charged the jury, that he was possessed of the legal title, and as such, entitled to recover in this
action."
The Court below has considered the title of the
defendants below as a mere equitable title; all its
conclusions, from first to last, have their basis in
this doctrine. And had it been shown in argument that this idea was sustained by a course of
decisions in the State Courts, I certainly should
not feel myself at liberty to contest it. But every
thing conspires to satisfy me, that the estate vested
in the warrantee upon the execution of a.survey,
was never considered in any other light than a
legal estate, in the jurisprudence of that country.
Whatever may be the correct legal construction
of the words of the warrant, if such has been the
practical construction, communis error facit jits,
and it is now too late to criticise on the meaning
of terms.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

My reasons for adopting this opinion are the
following:
1. I look in vain through the statutes of that
State, for any legal provision for entering, avoiding, and regranting lands, for failure in paying
the arrears of purchase money. On the contrary.
I find an act passed on the 9th of April, 1751.
which furnishes a legislative exposition of the lau
on this subject. By the provisions of that act.
the treasurer is authorized to issue an execution
fbr the arrears of purchase money due on lands
granted prior to the 10th of December, 1776, and
to levy on and sell the land so granted. Thal
the warrants and survey created in favour of the
State a debt and a lien, is unquestionable; and
this is all that the State affirms in passing this law;
but, by the same legal provision, it negatives the
idea of the property in the soil having ceased to
exist in the tenant. No change in this respect
was effected by the act of 1779, commonly called
the vesting act, since that act only confirms individual c. fates according to their existing qualities.
Nor has the. legislative power been altogether
silent on the subject of forfeiture and regrantin :
for, by the 10th article of the concessions, there
is provision made for regranting lands which may
become forfeited for failing, for three yeaps, to
seat and improve them. Nor do I believe that
there can be produced in the history of the jurisprudence of that country, an instance in which
this power of regranting has been extended to any
other case.

1824.
Kirk
'.

s,,,,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
r
Kirk

V.

2. I think this opinion follows as a corollary to
the proposition, that payment of the considera-

tion money vests a legal estate. For why should
a patent be unnecessary, if there remained any
act to be done on the part of the proprietary, in
order to pass a legal estate? It may be contended,
that this doctrine results from the peduliar jurisprudence of that State, in which, for want of
Courts of equity, the Courts of law have adopted
the maxim, that we must consider that as done
which ought to be done. But to this there is a
brief and unanswerable reply. Such might be
the reason where a 'patent is demanded, and the
fees tendered; but such demand and tender have
never been insisted on as necessary in support of
the general effect of payment of the consideration
money, to vest a fee simple absolute, without a
patent.
Some analogy may be supposed to exist between this case, and that of mortgagor and mortgagee. But, if so, the relation is reversed, and
the converse of the rights and liabilities of the
mortgagee results from it. For, the debtor conveys the fee to the creditor, in the ordinary form
of mortgaging, and retains only the right to redeem. Here the creditor conveys the estate cum
onere. And the question as to the interest vested
in the defendants below, whether it was legal or
equitable, still recurs. If legal, it bears an analogy with an estate in fee subject to a charge, rather than to an estate subject to a mortgage; in
which former case, the creditor could not maintain ejectment.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The only analogy, in my judgment, between 1824.
this estate, and any one known to the common
Kirk
law, is that of a feoffment on condition. The warV.
rant is the deed, the survey the livery of seisin, Smith.
and the condition is a condition in deed, as distinguished from a condition in law; and it is also a
condition subsequent. In which case, it is clear,
that the estste is a legal estate, and remains good
until enty made for the forfeiture, by some one legally authorized. This leads to the questions,
whether, previous to their formal entry on bringing this ejectment, such an entry was made ? Whether legally made? And what were its legal effects ?
Unless the manorial appropriation of 1768 can
be considered as an entry, it is not pretended
that any legal eviction of the defendants below
ever took place. And as to that, I think it perfectly clear, that it could, on no principle, operate as
a legal eviction. It was an act, on every principle, perfectly consistent with the full and unmolested enjoyment of the premises in question. And
this consequence follows, whether we consider it
in the light of a simple designation of metes and
bounds, over which the original proprietary rights
were retained, or, what appears to be the more
proper view, as an original grant, converting it
from an interest existing in the proprietary, in his
political capacity, into an estate held by him in his
individual relations to the society, of which lie was
both a member and a ruler. In the first view,
there was no sensible chapge made in the estate,
as it existed previously in this, and the whole ter-

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
,hKirk
V.
Smith.

ritory; and in the second, the interest acquired.
or efibct produced, could be nothing beyond that
of a grant to aryindividual, other than the proprietary. In the latter case, it is perfectly clear, that
running the circumscribing lines, would be no
trespass or eviction. These appropriations to the
proprietary, were intended to operate'exclusively
upon unseat6d territory. On that which had been,
previously surveyed to individuals, they could produce no effect whatever; otherwise they' might as
well have dispossessed those who held by a perfect, as those who held by an inchoate title. Although circumscribed by the lines of the manor,
the seated tracts composed no part of the thing
appropriated; they could not have been estima_ed as any part of the proprietary's tenths; and
there never was a doubt of his righthaving still
existed, to extend the limits of his survey, so as
to take in as much land as he was deprived of by
these prior included individual appropriations. A
different construction would be greatly to his prejudice, inasmuch as he might, by possibility, have
lost the whole of his tenths, by taking in the grants
to others. This view of the subject, I shall again
have reason to recur to, on another point.
But, if this circumscribing. survey could, on any
principle, be held equivalent to an entry, it is still
necessary to maintain that it was a legal entry.
And this I am prepared to negative, upon various
grounds. It is obvio: , tha't such an entry must
be justified, either on tite ground cf personal right
V1 lego] I ,,t'o,.

A mere arbitr., %power to resur-

vey, did vi: t exist in the pro ,rie!,,rv : the uro'inr

303

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of Pennsylvania had taken the form of a State, governed by a wise and beneficent government, in
which the will of the proprietaryhad been subjected to the public will, and his allodial interests
circumscribed to his purchase money and quitrents, and his reserved tenths. As to the land
seated under warrants to individuals, he was bound
by his own concessions and the legislative will ;
and I see no power delegated by law to any one
to enter and evict for failure to pay the consideration money reserved on such appropriations ; nor
have we been told of any practice on this subject,
that could be construed into a national acquiescence, in the exercise of such a power. The debt
and the lien remained, but the right of eviction
and regranting for non-payment, was never legalized nor asserted, nor could it, in any case, have
been tolerated, without a tender of that part of the
consideration money which had been already paid.
Again, an entr& for condition broken, inust be
made as such, and- with intent to produce the legal
effects of an entry; a mere casual friendly passing
of the boundaries of the premises will be unconsequential; but here, he sole object of the survey
of 1768, was to appropriate unseated land, and not
to assert a title to that which had been previously
appropriated. The present claim is but an after
thought; a speculation upon the possible effect of
an act not intended to produce eviction.
This leads to another conaideration, operating
against both the fact and legality of this supposed
entry, for condition broken. It is agreed, on all
hands, 'that -proof of the full payment of the con-

1821.
KIrL

v.

Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824
Kirk

v.
snb.

sideration money, would have been conclusive
against the title of the plaintiffs below. But why
may not .presumption of such a payment arise
from length of time and acquiescence ? and that
of the plaintiff below be left as a fact to the jury ?
If resumption of a patent may, under circumstances, be left to a jury in favour of possession, much
more so may a fact so much less solemn in its nature, and more difficult of proof, as payment. In
this case, and in all cases arising in Penhsylvania,
such a fact may well be submitted, since in practice it has superseded the issuing of a patent, and
may well tempt the parsimony of purchasers,
since the expense of a patent has become an expense of supererogation. The long forbearance
and acquiescence of the proprietaries, can be referred only to one of three causes: a consciousness that they had acquired nothing in the seated
lands within their manorial appropriations; that
they had no right to enter on the premises previously seated; or, that the title init was perfected
by payment. All which would operate against
both the fact and legality of the supposed entry.
From these considerations, I am led to adopt
the opinion, that the title of the defendants below
was a legal title, and the better title ; that if voidable, it could be avoided only by entry for conditions broken. That no such entry was made, or
was intended to be made, or could be legally
nade ; and that they were, therefore, entitled to a
charge in their favour. With this view of the
subject, it may not be necessary for me to go farther. But it comportw with the practibe of this

vi,' THE UNITED STATES,

Court, that I should express an opinion on the 1824.
other points in the cause.
Kirk
V.
And fifst, as to the bearing of the act of confisSmith.
suit.
this
of
cation, on the subject
The Court below appears to have considered a
manor in the light of a geographical tract, or portion of territory designated by metes and bounds.
I, on the oontrary, consider the term as designating an estate or legal interest within the geographical limits. In this sense, nothing will be cornprized in the meaning of the words of the 8th
section of the law, but those -tracts of land within
those limits which were held of the manor; or,
in the peculiar language of that country,. granted
on terms to be agreed. It is very clear, that the
8th section of the act of confiscation was not intended to convey to the proprietaries any interest
not previously existing in them. Now, how did
a manorial appropriation operate upon the lands.
that had been seated previous to such appropriations? It is clear that it vested no interest in
such lands, nor any thing incident to them. If
the whole purchase money had been paid, the individual's estate was consummated. And if the
whole was not paid, it is admitted in the charge,
that the proprietary could not change the tenure
or the terms of purchase. And so far were these
previously seated tracts from being considered in
law as making part of the manor, that the proprietary's right to indemnify himself from adjacent unseated territory, for the deduction from
his tenths, caused by these excepted tracts, has
begn solemnly recognised in that Court. Then.
39
Vox. XX.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1824.
i
Kirk

v.

Smith.

though within the manor, they were not of the
manor; as well might an island or an oasis be
denominated water or desert. And there were
unan:werable reasons, in justice and policy, why
such land should have been so considered. It is
asserted that the proprietaries never, in fact, exercised any of those privileges and powers within
the tracts denominated manors, which were authorized by the charter. But this consideration
has no influence upon'my opinion; for, 1st, I see
no reason, except the intervention of the revolution, why the proprietaries, or lords of the manors,
may not have assumed thn exercise of those privileges. In case of escheats, tiLUru can be no
doubt that they would have asserted one manorial
right, and were probably prevented from asserting
all, only because in the actual state of the province, they would have been burthensome, and
unproductive. But, 2dly, They did assert one
important privilege within those limits, a privilege
which they were precluded by law from exercising
beyond those limits. This was the right to demand a higher price for the lands within their
manors, than that to which they had restricted
themselves in the State at large. And this appears to me to establish a familiar and definite
ground of discrimination, by which to determine
the operation of this act of confiscation, in any
given case. Was the land held on the common
terms, or the terms agreed? It cannot be disputed that the general purpose of the act of confiscation was, to distinguisn between the land
appropriated to the individual use of the propric-

O(" 'PRE UNIED STATE.-7

307

taries, and that over which they were held to ex- 1824.
ercise only a political power, or fiduciary interest.
Kirk
V.
proindnidual
They were permitted to acquire an
Smi.
;
State
the
of
territory
perty in one tenth of the
and the lands so appropriated, as well as the proceeds of the sale of such lands, were meant to
be set apart to them, while that which had been
seated by individuals, as a part of the unappropriated nine tenths, reserved to the community,
-was intended to be confiscated. Any other construction would go to imply, that the State had
reserved to the proprietaries, territory which was
no part of their legal tenths; and, also, that but
for this reservation, the act of confiscation would
have devested individual interests not intended to
be confiscated.
But let us examine more particularly the provisions of .this act, with a view to determining its
just construction. And here let me premise, that,
for all the purposes of this suit, I care not whether the 9th section of the act vests in the proprietaries the balances due on the tracts within the
manor, -sold on the common terms, or not. The
question here is, whether they are entitled to
judgment in a suit in 9jectment, and of consequence, to a writ of possession, for I cannot distinguish the one from the other. I wholly reject
the doctrine of suing for possession, and recovering
money; of suing for land, and recovering pounds,
shillings and pence. Such a perversion of means
might proceed from positive legislation; and, in
the State of Pennsylvania, where an amalgamation of law and equity necessarily grows out of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
(irk

V.

Smith.

the want of an equity jurisdiction, the practice
has grown up, of giving an alternative judgment
in such cases, for either the land or the money,
or rather for the money to be levied on the I'1d.
But this Court is expressly prohibited from thus
confounding legal and equitable proceedings, and
the whole opinion of the Court below proceeds
on a recognition of the necessity of puriuing the
two classes of legal and equitable rights, by their
appropriate remedies. I have said, and in this I
do not understand myself as differing from this
Court, that the only practical effect of the terms
of the warrants to individuals is, to create a debt
and a lien; but surely a tenant may covenant to
stand seised, subject to a charge in gross, and yet
retain the legal estate. And even in the drdinar)
case of a mortgage, where the legal estate passes
from the debtor to the creditor, and the converse
of the present case exists, an assignment of the
debt is no conveyance of the legal estate to the
assignee. A Court of equity will pass the one as
an incident to the other; but in a Court of law,
the assignee could not maintain ejeetment. And
that is the only question here. If-it be said, that
although in this suit the plaintiff below may not
be entitled to recover the land, but may avail himself of this form of action to recover the purehaso
money due, I consider it as an abandonment of
the question; for, the debt, if existing, was but
an equitable lien, and the remedy here resorted
to, is a common law remedy. I think, however,
I shall show, that although the debt exists, the
lien is taken away by the act of confiscation; and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

309

though the debt be due, it is not due to these par- 1824.
ties, but to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Mirk
V.
In following this act of confiscation through the
detail of its provisions, we find, that after four see- Smith.
tions, setting forth the views and motives of the
Legislature, the fifth section, or "first enacting
clause, contains a general assumption of the soil
and sovereignty of the State, and a revocation of
the charter toPenn, as fullyto use itsownlanguage,
"as if the same were therein transcribed and repealed." The sixth section asserts the future exclusive appropriation of the "soil and lands, hereditaments and premises, to be in the Legislature
of the State;" and, under the operation of these
two clauses, it is very clear, that every right, civil
and political, of the proprietaries, "of, in, or to the
soil" of Pennsylvania, derived under the charter,
was (subject to the exceptions in the same act)
vested in the Commonwealth, "freed and discharged," as the act expresses it, "from and against
all estates, uses, trusts," "charges,, inc'umbrances,
titles, claims, and demands whatsoever." And all
the title which they now hold therein, they hold
by virtue of the provisoes contained in the 8th and
9th sections. But to understand the force and
meaning of those two sections, I deem it material.
that the language and effect of the 7th section
should be duly weighed. This section contains a
general confirmation of all the estates, legal and
equitable, derived from the proprietaries, their officers, &o. or otherwise, or to which any person
or persons, oiie7 tk an the proprietaries,were entitled, either by deed, patent, warrant, or sztrrc,'.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
k
Kirk

,..

s.,ith.

on the 4th of July, 1776. This clause operates in
favour of all persons "other than the proprietaries," and confirms, unquestionably, the estates of
these defendants below, in common with every
other citizen. The next proviso, (8th section,) is
confined to the subject of the estates and interests
of the proprietaries. And here it is obvious, that
three subjects claimed the attention of the Legislature. Their estates and interests were distributable into three classes : they held property acquired, in common with every other individual,
"by devise, purchase, descent," &c.; they held
other property, under the reservation of a tenth of
the soil, to their individual use ; and they held, or
claimed, a third class of interests, as proprietaries,
which clashed with that eminent domain, which
was now about to be assumed by the State of
Pennsylvania. The latter, the State determined
to confiscate, and compensate them for; the former
two, to preserve to them unviolated. And these
considerations draw a line of demarkntion between
the subjects of this act, infinitely more definite and
rational, than that marked out by trees or streams.
The estates held upon the common terms, were
those which constituted the third class; and the
phraseology of the act appears to me to be in perfect accordance with the general intent. On
this point, I hold it to be an important fact, that,
without exception, throughout these two sections,
tenths and manors are never used apart; they are
constantly considered synonimous and equivtdent.
Now, although a manor may, by common accepta!ion, be considered as a geographical section, 0

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tenth is a term of comparison and quantity, and 1824.
has direct relation to that interest which the pro- "77h'
V.
prietaries had acquired, and might acquire, as a
sitb.
consiI
soil.
the
in
property
distinct individual
der, therefore both manor and tenth, as here used,
as designating estate and interest, and not geographical limits. And why should it be held a
reservation, by geographical limits ? Let it be
remarked, that it is no immaterial question to the
defendants in the Court below, not only as it affects their interests, but as it affects their claims
upon the justice and impartial legislation of
country. There can be no reason assigned, why
they should be excluded from the benefits which
this act confers upon citizens of their class, and, in
fact, subjected ,to confiscation. There are important interests growing out of this act to all
other landholders, upon common terms ; they are
exempted from quit-rents, and the lien for the balance of purchase money is taken from off their
lands. Can there be a reason assigned, why
those of this class who, by the caprice or cupidity
of the proprietaries, or their agents, have been
embracedwithin the lines of their surveys, should
be excluded from the common benefits extended
to their fellow citizens? The injustice of such a
dmcrimination is conclusive on the construction
of thea ct, if an act is to be construed according
to the intent, of the Legislature. With regard to
those who held of the:manor, or held, as is usually
said, on terms.agreed, the case is widely different.
It is the effect of their own individual contracts
with the proprietary. They are; by the nature of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
R
Kirk

V-.

Smith.

their relation to the proprietaries, distinguished
from those of the other class, and have nothing to
complain of. Their quit-rents and arrears were
considered as debts due to their landlord, and the
Legislature intended to take from the Penns nothing which belonged to them in their individual
capacity.
Again; extending the construction of the act
to the geographical limits of the manor, leads to
the most absurd consequences.
It has been insisted, that it was lawful, in -urveying the manors, to include within their boundaries the grants to individuals. This is readily
conceded; and the inference from the fact, is directly the reverse of what has been attributed to
it. Did the Legislature mean, by the proviso in
favour of the Penns, to reserve to them their legitimate tenths; or did they mean, by possibility,
to reserve to them half the State ? There cannot
be a doubt that, although any particular survey had
embraced half a county, yet if the vacant land within it had amounfed to no more than a tenth, the
appropriation would have been duly made, and valid. But could the Legislature ever have intended to exclude all the individuals thus circumscribed, from the common benefits of grantees on the
common terms? to have subjected them to the most
odious and unmerited exceptions? Could the
State have intended to permit the proprietaries,
under the pretext of surveying a tenth, to cast their
net over half its limits? It was for the very reason
that including individual surveys made them no
part of the manor, that the right to include previous

OF THE UNITED STATES.

locations to individuals was tolerated. It had not
entered into the mind of man to conceive, that
they thereby produced any change in the relation
which subsisted between those individuals and the
Commonwealth; or could expose them to be separated from the mass of the community, in the
several legislation of the State; or exclude them
from an equal participation in all the benefits of
the revolution. But by this geographical construction, without any act or offence on their part,
they are shut out from immunities extended to
others, who had no greater claims upon the community than themselves.
Bt again; if we are to construe this act without a reference to its general spirit and intent, we
have but to carry the principle through, in order
to involve us in irreconcilable absurdity, and such
as will oblige us, for the purpose of common
sense, to come back to the very principle of construction which I would apply to the law throughout. A liberal construction of the 8th section,
vests in the Penns the whole geographical contents of their manors, whether sold or unsold; and
then adds to the grant the rents reserved out of
the parts sold. The words are, "All the lands,
&c. duly surveyed, &c., together with the quk
or other rents, or arrearages of rent, reserved out
of the said proprietary tenths, or manors, or any
part or parts- thereof sold." Now, to reduce this
section to the standard.of common sense, we have
at once to reject the geographical limits, and circumscribe the thing granted to the estate or interest existing in the Penns at the time specified,
VOL. IX.

40

1824.
Kirk

Smith.

$14

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824. Nor is it immaterial, to note the particalar phrak Kirk seology here made use of. The words are, "reserIV: ved out of the said proprietary tenths, or manors,
Smith. or the part or parts thereof which have been sold."
Now the lands sold to these defendants below, were
sold out of the general funds of the State, and the
quit-rent on these was reserved out of the land of
the.State, and not of the manor, for that had no
legal existence when this sale and reservation
were made. The land was not sold as part of the
manor, .nor was the rent reserved out of part of
the manor.
But, secondly; there is not a pretext for this
supposed resulting legal estate in the Penns, except the assumed reservation to them of the balance of purchase money on the grants held within
their lines upon common terms. And how does
this stand ? It will be found tobe only an implied
gtant, to which this implied legal estate is appended; an implication tacked to another implication; and finally, as the concluding link of this
ehain of implication, that ejectment is the remedy
reserved for the recovery of that balance of the
purchase money, which is itself the subject of the
first implication.
If the rights of the Penns be circumscribed by
the. positive enactments of this law, then are they
not only precluded from all claim to the balances
due by this class of gl~antees, but also from those
doe by every description of purchasers; for there
ig, no positive provision in the law which vests
those balances in them. Their quit-rentsare expressly reserved to them in the-maxors, but not so,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

315

with their balances of purchase money. But in 1824.
the 9th and 10th sections, these arrearages of pur-'
Iirk
chase money are excepted from the provisions of
V.
the Lw, without any express declaration to whom Smith.
they shall belong; and from this, an implication is
supposed to result in their favour. But surely, so
far as relates to the balances due by the general
grantees, the implication is so far from being a
necessary implication, that its bearing is altogether
the other way; the implied intent of the Legislature is against a construction so obviously inconsistent with the general purposes of that body; a
construction producing such an unjust, unreasonable, and improbable discrimination between innocent aid equally meritorious men of the same class.
Construe the act so as to confine the grant to the
Penns to their private interests in the manors, and
it becomes sensible and consistent throughout; and
while it secures to them, on the one hand, all the
interests which, as individuals, they are entitled to;
on the other hand, you extend to all other indiv:dual citizens, one uniform rule of legislation and
relief
Again; there is no reason for supposing that
when the Legislature uses the terms tenths and
manwrs aforesaid, in the 9th section, or the said
tenths and manors, in the 10th section, that it uses
them in any other sense than that in which they
are used in the 8th section. The terms used, in fact,
identify their meaning. But a correct construction of the terms used in the 8th section, in describing these tenths, or manors, is fatal to all implication in favour of the Penns. with referencei to any

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.

interest in the lands legally seated, previous to
K irk'h their appropriation. The words are, "tenths, or
v. .manors, duly surveyed and returned into th
Smith.
land office." But who will deny, that these words
are to be construed with reference to the intent
and effect of such surveys? And what 'was that
intent and effect ? simply to appropriate unseated
lands. Would these proprietaries have been content in laying off these surveys, to have been precluded and deprived of half their interest by previous surveys, over which they could not have exercised the right of 'Selling or retaining, as they
thought proper ? If not, then, so far as relates to
previously ceded lands, they never were appropriated by them, and it cannot be predicated of them,
that in the sense of the parties they were surveyed
ad returned.
The construction now contended for, is obviously an after thought of the plaintiffs below, growing
:entirely out of a supposed ambiguity in the words
of the confiscation act, and would have been strenuously resisted, had they been so applied when
their surveys of manors were first made.
. Again; the rule of construction applicable to
leases and wills are not essentially different in their
principles. In legislating on this subject, the
State had assumed all the rights, and, at least,
could exercise all the powers of a manor-holder, in
making his last will. Although by the charter, the
purchasers under manors are restricted from any
alienation of their.purchases, by which they might
be devested of the incident of holding directly of
the manor, it is obvious that such a change of

OF 'iHE UNrTED STATES.

'317

estate might be produced, by the act of the manor- 1824.
holder. Suppose, then, the grantees of the ma- " Kirk
V.
nor of Springctsbury had sold any portion of the
soil, and devested it of this incident, lying, we may
suppose, in the very centre of the whole, would a
devise in the very words of this act, "to wit, of the
manor of Springetsbury, s duly surveyed and returned," have been construed to carry the portion
previously disposed of? Or, to pursue the analogy further; suppose the purchase money unpaid,
and a covenant by indenture of the tenant to pay
the money to the vendor and his heirs, and even to
hold the land charged with the payment, would a
devise of the manor carry the money so reserved,
or the devise of the debt carry the freehold in the
land sold ?
But, on this doctrine of implication I will make
another observation. It is rebutted by the provisions of the instrument itself; and, in the case of
a will, would be considered as an undisposed residue; for, when we look through the whole act,
and find this 8th section to be the only one which
purports to give any thing to the proprietaries,
their whole interest having been previously confiscated; and when, -in this section, we find their in-,
dividual interests in the soil of the State, whether
acquired as other individuals, or as proprietary
appropriations, darefully designated, and even to
the arrearages of quit-rents on such lands, expressly reserved to them; surely the implication
arises, that this section was intended to embrace
the whole provision meant to be made for them
out of the common patrimony of the State.

CASES IN TIM sUPREME COURT

The omission to mention and reserve the arrearages of purchase money due on the manorial
Kirk
v.
sales, might, with much greater reason, be urged
Smitb. as raising a presumption against their claims even
to those balances. This, however, I reject; and
for a reason which serves to throw some light
upon the subsequent clauses of this statute; which
is, that as the. Legislature, in so many words,
recognises these alienations as individual sales;
they very properly considered the balances due
thereon -asprivate debts; and, as no confiscation
of private debts could be implied -from the enacting clauses of the act, so no express reservation
of such balances was deemed necessary. The
subsequent exceptions in favour of balances due
on manorial lands, therefore, I consider as intended only to guard against an extension of the
words of the law to such individual contracts.
The nine tentht of the soil, and the balances of
*purchase money due on such parts as had passed
to individuals, they considered as the property of
the body politic, and appropriated it as such to
the State. "The one tenth set apart for the
proprietaries, they propose to put on the same
footing with their'individual interests, properly so
called, and with it, to.Teserve. to them the balances due on the lands appropriated to themselves.
These are fair and consistent inferences, if not
positive enactmnrts; but it would be much more
consistent with the positive enactmeats, to hold,
that all the balances due on the lands cirpumserihed by the manorial lines, were still at the disposition of the Legislature, -than that they meant to

1824.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

confer on the Penns more than they have declared, 184.
or made discriminations among the citizens at
Kirk
large, which no reason or policy could justify.
.
Upon the questions that have been raised upon Smith.
the operation of the law, commonly called the
seven years law, or the law of 1705, (though of
much greater antiquity,) it may be proper to make
a few remarks.
I cann6t see a reason why this law should have
been supposed obsolete, more especially with reference to the early day in which it must have
acted upon the interests of the parties in this
cause. On the contrary, it appears to have been
a favourite law of the colony, for wt find it enacted and re-enacted, in opposition. to reiterated repeals by the King in council, as will be seen by
reference to Carey and Bioren's edition of the
Laws. In the same work, we find it printed under sanction of the Legislature, and republished
under the same authority, as lately as 1810. Indeed, upon reference to the concessions which
composed the fundamental laws of the. colony,
we find the very law in'its present terms; and are
led to the conclusion, that its constitutional character gave it a peculiat sanctity in the eyes of
the Commonwealth. Another consequence, also,
results fr6m its very early enactment; which is,
that, contrary to a ground taken in argument, it
must be construed as having a prospective effect,
since it was adopted at a time when there could
not have existed a case for it to govern, if solely
retrospective. Of this law it has been remarked,
that for 116 years it does not appear that a cause

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

v.

Smith.

has been won or lost on thebasis of it. And had
the decisions of the State Courts, prior to the revolution, been preserved, the observation would
have had its influence. But in the absence of
reports of such adjudications, there cannot exist
such satisfactory evidence on the subject as to
sustain the fact. One thing is very certain, that
some beneficial, influence must have been felt from
its existence, or it would not have bebn"so often
and so pertinaciously insisted on by the colonists.
If it covered their estates in no other way than by
preventing suits, its great purposes were answered; and its sovereign influence, in this respect,
may well be inferred, from the assumed non-existence of decisions at law. It preserved health, if
it did not cure disease. At present, it is unquestionably repealed by the act of 1785, for the two
acts cannot stand toget:1er. The latter act extends the limitation of suits to twenty-one years;
but if the limitation of seven years would produce the same effect, then would the prior law
repeal the latter, or'render it a mere nullity. And
this accounts for its not having been heard of for
the last forty years, which may be called the period of reported causes. Its repeal, however, at
that time, has no influence upon its previous effect
upon the rights of these parties.
It has been reimarked of this law, as incontestable, that it could not convert an equitable into a
legal estate: But-this doctrine appears to me to
do more than render the law obsolete; it renders
it a mere nullity in its origin. Wha is gained by
an estate's continuing an eguitableestate ? From

OF THE UNITED STATES.

its inherent strength, unaided by the law, if accompanied with continued possession, it would
continue a good equitable estate; and why should
not the comprehensive words, "shall for ever give
an unquestionable title against all," be construed
into a transmutation from an equitable into a legal
title? How can any but a good legal title be
denominated an unquestionable title? and why
should not all comprise ligal as well as equitable
claimants? The opinion below supposes the signification of those terms to be circumscribed by
the words " during the- estate." But from this I
must dissent, since these words do not necessarily
conveythat meaning, and are more properly applied
to the distinction of estates into terms for years,
estates for life, estates in fee, in tail, &c.; all
which may be either legal or equitable. Neither
can I acquiesce in that part of the opinion, which
considers a discharge from the purchase money of
the land, as a necessary consequence of giving
effect to the seven years law, as agairst the plaintiffs below in this cause; for the lien might continue, though a legal and absolute estate be vested
in the defendants below. And, to prevent the
operation of this law in favour of the possession,
lest the claim for the purchase money should incidentally be barred, appears to be inverting the
order of things; for, by the acts limiting suits on
contracts, the suit for the purchase money might
by possibility-be barred; while the remedy to recover the land was still in full fo-ce, being of
longer duration. The superior purpose of quieting estates of freehold, also would. under that
VdJL. rX.

,I'

1824.
Kirk

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

322

1824.
k
Kirk

v.

Smh.

doctrine, be controlled by the inferior one of enforcing open contracts, or implied covenants.
While the most ordinary means of adjusting contracts for the sale of lands on credit remained in
practice, there could be no danger, in giving credit on sales, of losing both land and money, as
the Court supposes. But if that consequence did
follow, non constat, but that the public interest,
as well as private tranquillity, might have been
promoted by it.
To me it appears, that this seven years law has
had a sovereign influence over the rights of property in that State. I have no doubt that it is
under its influence the doctrine has grown up,
that 'a possessor of the soil need not produce a
patent to protect his freehold ; as well as the doctrine, that those words which, on the face of the
warrant, would seem a condition, shall not be
held to produce n ore than a contract and a lien.
But if this se en years law did not quiet the
possessic rf the defendants below, I confess I
am at a loss to understand the principle upon
which that effect is denied to the limitation act of
1785. Was their estate void or voidable, legal
or equitable? In every point of view, the law
appears to me to operate in their favour.
The opinion below is thus expressed: " Possession, to create a bar by length of time, must
be adverse, which it cannot be, if the defendant's
entry was under a title derived from the plaintiffs." That a possession, to sustain a bar under
the act, must be adverse, is unquestionable. But
when the Court comes, in the next member of the

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

323

period, to explain what is meant by an adverse 1824.
possession, we find the doctrine asserted, that a Kirk
possession cannot, be held adverse to the title of
Y.
him from whom it is derived. This doctrine I smith
hold to be altogether untenable; and this sentence
alone, though every other idea be put out of the
case, would, in my view of the subject, entitle
the plaintiffs here to a reversal of the judgment.
The title acquired by a vendee is most peculiarly
adverse to that of him from whom he purchases.
But under what view of the subject could these
plaintiffs be held mere tenants at will to the parties plaintiffs below? or their possession any other
than an adverse possession? They did not hold
as the agents or representatives of .those through
whom they derived the title. From the time of
entering info possssion, they held in virtue of
the estate in themselves, and not that of -any
other. If the idea is, that the proprietaries might
at any time have entered upon them, and in that
sense, the estate was held at their will, the answer is, that is one of the very cases that the act
of limitation provides against; for-it takes away
that volition in the proprietary, unless the entry
be made in twenty-one years. But the fact was
not so ; these tenants did n6t hold at the will of
the proprietaries, for all those wfio acquired under
the common terms were taken under the care of
the law, and we find act upon act to regulate the
proceedings of the proprietary towards them. The
right to turn them out by the shoulders never existed in the proprietary; he must have resoi ted to
his entry, or suit, to recover possession they were

324

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Kirk

V.

considered as holding a freehold, and the law did
not entitle him to resume possession arbitrarily.
It was the doctrine of that State; that his rights
were restricted to the payment of the
purchase
money and quit-rents, at least until he tendered a
return of advances and improvements. It cannot
be imagined that the reservation of quit-rents converted the purchasers into tenants at will ; neither
principle nor authority would sanction the idea.
Nor can I perceive any thin'g either in the legal
relations or contracts of these parties, that could
sustain the doctrine that the possession o.f the defendants was permissive, and identified with that
of the proprietary. A tenancy at will, must be the
result of contract, express or implied.; but a freehold granted on condition, is not converted by forfeitur& into a tenancy at will. Yet, had it been
otherwise, surely lapse of time, general acquiescence, and received opinion, ought tobe held to produce the same cansequences as to the tenure of
property in 'this State, which were produced by
the same causes in England upon the tenure by
copy of court-roll. That which was in its origin
nothing but a tenure at will, retains now nothing
of its origin bot tho formula which attests its his.
tory.
To conclu,e let the estate of these defendants
below be considered as either void or voidable,
and I see not how the act of limitations is to be
escaped by their antagonist. If voidable, on failure to pay the purchase money, the entry is expressly taken away by that statute; and if void,
they cannot be reduced lower than to the grade

OF THE iJNITED STATES.

of tenants by sufferance, with regard to whom entry and suit was just as indispensable, as with regard to any other tenure. (Co. Lit. 57.) In the
application of the doctrines on the statute of limitations, the incidents to the two tenures ought not
to be confounded.
Judgment affirmed.

[DEvIsE.
ROBERT

CONIDITION PIECEDENT OIL SUBSEqU-NT.)'

J. TAYLOR and others, Appellants.
V.

JOHN THOMPSON MASON,

Respondent.

Ri.B., being seised of lands in Maryland, made three instruments of
writing, each purporting to be his will. The first, dated in 1789,
gave his whole estate to his nephew, J. T. M., after certain pecuniary legacies to his other nephews and nieces. In the second will,
dated in 1800, the testator gave his whole real estate to J. T. Ml.,
during his life; and after his death, to his eldest son, A., in tail,
on condition of his changing his name to .. Barnes, with remainder to the heirs of his nephew, J. T. M., lawfully begotten, for
eve;, on their changing their sumrnames to Barnes.
The third will, which was executed after the others, and probably in
1805, after some small bequests, proceeded thus: 1 give the whole
of my property, after complying with that I have mentioned, to
the male heirs of my nephew, J. T. M., lawfully egllen, for
ever, agreeably to the law of England, which was the law of our
State before the revolution, that is, the oldest male heir to take
all, on the following terms: that the name of the one that may hare
the right at the age of twenty-one, with his consent, be changed
to A. Barnes, by an.act of public authority of the State, without
any name 'added, together with his taking an oath, before he has

~3255
1824.
Taylor

v.
M n,

