OF THE UNITED STATES.

since the cause may be disposed of without enter-. 1824.
ing upon the discussion of them.
Sebree
v.
It .is the opinion of the Court, that the .Circuit
Court erred in instructing the jury, that the records Dofr.
aforesaid entitled the plaintiff to a verdict; and the
judgment must, therefore; be reversed, and a ve• irefacias.de ovo be awarded.
Judgment accordingly.

[Lix Loci.]
KERR, Appellant,
V..
The D.visEEs oF A. MooN, Resgondents,
The disposition of real property, by deed or will, is subject to the"
laws of the country where It is Eituated.
Where the devisor was entitled to warrants for land in the Viiginim
Military District, in the State of Ohio, under the laws and ordinances of Virginia, on account of his military services, and made
a will in Kentucky, devising the lands, which was duly proved and
registered according to.the laws of that State: Hd,that although
the title to the land was merely equitable, and that not to any specific tract ofland, it'cquld not pass, unless by a will proved and registered accordingto the laws of Ohio.
Even addiiftng it to have been pirsonal property, a person claiming
" under a will proved in one State, cannot intehueddle with, or sue for,
the effects of 'a testator in another State, unless the will be proved
In thelatter State, or it is permittid by somelaw of that State.
Letters testamentary give to an"executor no authority to sue for tfie
personal estate of his testator, out of the jurisdiction of the State
by which they were granted.
Under the statute of Ohio, which permits wills made in other States

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

566

1824.
,

'-'
Kerr
v.
Moon.

concerning property in that State, to be proved and recorded in the
.

Court of the county where the property lics, it imiut appear that te
requisitions of the statute have been pursued, in order to give the
will the same validity and effect as if made within the State.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
Feb. 20th.

.'farch 15th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Scott for the
appella-it, and by Mr. Brush for the respondents.
Mr. Justice WAsM.IaTON delivered the opinion

of the Court.
The respondents filed their bill in the Circuit
Court for the District of Ohio, in which it is stated, that Archelaus Moon was, in his lifetime, entitled to warrants for 4000 acres of land in the
Virginia Military District, between the Scioto and
Little Miama rivers, jn the State of Ohio, under
the ordinances and laws of Virginia, on account
of his services as a captain in the Virginia line on
continental establishmeni, during tho war of the
-revolution. That, being so entitled, he, on-the 8th
of May, 1796, in the county of Fayette, in Kentucky, where he resided, duay made and pulblishod
his last will and testament, which, after his decease, in the same year, was proved and admitted
to record in the Caurt of that county; an authenticated copy whereof, with the probate annexed,
is made an exhibit, and referred to as part .of the
bill. That by this will, the testator devised the
aforesaid land to the complainants, his widow and
children. The bill then sets forth, that on the 2d
of January, 1809, four warrants, for 1000 acres

OF rHE UNITED STATES.

each,. were granted to Robert Price, assignee of 1824.
C. Friend, and MarJosiah P. Moon, and George
•
I-Herr
V.
tha his wife, formerly Martha Moon, who are deMoon.
children
only
the
as
scribed in the assignment,
and representatives of Archibald Moon, deceased;
which warrants were, some time in the shme or he
succeeding year, assigned by Price to the defendant Kerr, who, in March, 1810, made fifteen entries or locations thereon, amounting in the whole
to 3723 acres, leaving 277 acres unlocated. That,
some time in the winter of 1811, the complainants
gave notice to Kerr of their claim to the said warrant6 and land, and of their intention to prosecute
the same, personally, in writing, and by a publication in a newspaper printed in Chilicothe. That
Archelaus and Archibald Moon were the same
name and person, and that Josiah P. Moon and
Martha Friend were hi. children by his first wife,
and were disinherited by the aforesaid will. That
the defendant had notice that the assignment to
Price was fraudulent. The.bill prays a discovery
of the matters so alleged,, and a decree thatthe defendant Kerr assign the evidences of title to the said
Alands to the complainants, and Por general relief.
The answer admits that the defendant purchased from Robert Price, in September, 1809, four
several land. warrants, for 1000 acres each, for
which he paid and secured to be paid to said
"Paice, the sum of 2663 dollars. That the warrants -issued for the military services of Archibald
Moon, and that they were assigned to the defendant at.the time of his purchase. That in March,
1810, and at different times thereafter, the defen-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
Xer

V.

Moon.

dant made various entries of land on the said
Swarrants, in the Virginia military district, believing

his title to said warrants to be unquestionable ; and
that the lands so located are owned either by the
said defendant, or by Ihose to whom he had sold
them. The defendant denies the notice charged
in the bill, except that, in the winter of 1811, he
saw the publication in whic.h the claim of the complainants was asserted, before which'time he had
sold a great part of the lands to different persons
for a valuable consideration, the principal .part of
which he had received, and that some of the purchasers have made valuable improvements on the
lands. He denies all knowledoe of the will, or
that the complainants are the heirs or devisees of
said Moon.
To this answer a general replication was put in,
and a number of depositions were taken and appear in the record. 'The material Wacts which they
establish are, the execution of A[oon's will; the
proof of it,. and its admission to record in the
County Court of Fayette, in Kentucky; the destruction by fire of the Clerk's office of that
County in 1802 or 1803, with most of its records;
and that an attested copy of the above will was
procured and admitted to record in the said County
.Court, in conformity with a special act ;f the
State of Kentucky, for supplying the evidence,of
deeds, wills, and other records of the said office,
which had been consumed. That the testator was
sometimes called Archelaus, and at other times
A'ehibald; and that he h d four children -by his
first wife, of whom Josiah P. and Martha were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

two, and six children by his last wife, whd, with
his widow, are the plaintiffs in this suit.
After a reference -to the Master, and the coming
in of his report, a final decree was made thereon,
that the defendant, Kerr, assign to the complainants all the warranfts, entries, and surveys procured under the warrants granted to Price, and by
him assigned to the defendant; that Kerr was
to be paid by the complainants, for his trouble and
expense in locating and surveying the said lands,
at the rate ofZ12 10s. per 1000 acres ; and also,
the sum of 487 dollars-and 48 cents, which he had
paid for taxes on the said lands, with interest thereon. From this decree an appeal was taken to this
Court.
The objection principally relied upon by the appellant's counsel is, that no estate in the lands in
controversy passed by the will of Archelausfloon
to the respondents, because the same wag not proved and recorded in any Court of the State of
Ohio, where the landcs lie, in conformity with the
existing laws of that State. By an ordinance of
Congress, for the government of the territory
north-west of the river Ohio, passed on the 13th
of July, 1787, it is declared, that, until the Governor and Judges should adopt laws as prescribed by
that ordinance, estates in the territory might be
devised or bequeathed by wills in writing, signed
and sealed by the testator, (being of full age,) and
attested by three witnesses; provided such wills
should be duly proved and recorded within one
VOY.. IX.

72

569
1824.
-Kerr

v.

Mon.

57
TOCASES

i824.
.

IN THE SU REME COURT

year after proper Magistrates, Courts, and Registers .should be appointed'for that purpose.
-Itis an unquestionable principle of general law,
that the title to, and the disposition of real property, must be exclusively subject to the laws of the
country where it is .situated. This was decided
in the case of the UMited States v. Crosby,
(7 1-ranch, 115.) . The application of this principle to the present case, is controverted by the
counsel for the respondents, upon the following
grounds:
1. That the interest of the testator
in these
lands ought to be considered and treated as personal estate, and, therefore, it might well pass by
a ivill, proved and admitted to record in the State
where the testator.died.
2. That by an act of the Legislature
of Ohio,
passed on the 25th of January, 1816, authenticated copies of wills, proved according to the laws
of any, State or Territory of the United States,
relating to any estate within that State, are allowed to be proved in the Court of the county where
guch estate shall be; and when so proved and
admitted to record, theyI are declared to be good
and valid in'law, as wills made in the State.
3 That 'ah no objection was made in the Circuit Court to the admission -of the authenticated
copy ofthiswill, it ought not to aVail the appellant
in.this Court.
1. It can by no means be admitted, that this
is to be. considered in the light of personal property, notwithstanding the title of Moon rested merely upon a'legislative reservation in his favour by

OF TIE UNITrEr STA'riEs.

the State of Virginia, which was to be afterwards 1824
perfected by the grant of a warrant, and by a loHKerr
cation, survey and patent. Although his title to
.
any particular tract of land was, in the first in'onf.
stknce, altogether uncertain, and, even after locatidn, was purely equitable, still the subject matten"
of the devise was land, the title to which could not
be acquired or lost,. except in the way prescribed
by the laws of Ohio. But could it even be conceded, that this was personal property, it would
still be property within the State of Ohio; and we
hold it to be perfectly clear, that a person claiming
und era will proved in one State, cannot intermeddle with, or sue for, the effects of a testator in
another State, unless the will be proved in that
other State, or unless he be permitted to do so by
some law of that state. In the case of Doe v.
M'Farland,(9 Crauch, 151.) it was decided, that
letters testamentary gave to the executors mo atthority to sue for the personal estate of the testator, out of the jurisdiction of the power by which
the letters were gratud.
2. The next reason assigned why- the general
principle above laid down does not apply to this
case, is deemed by the Court altogether insufficient;because, whatever benefit the devisees might
have derived under the act of the 25th of January,
1816, had !hey pursued the iequisitions it prescribes, as to which we give no opinion, it is a
sufficient answer to the argument drawn from that
at, to observe, that its requisitions were not pursued. It permits ..authenticated copies of wills,
proved according to the laws of any State of this

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1824.
6 Kerr
v.
.

Union, relating to any estate within that State,
to be offered for probate in the Court of the county
where the estate lies, and authorizes the sa.me to.
be there recorded; and it then proceeds to declare
the effect of such recording 'to be; to render the
will good and voIid, as if it had been made in the
State, subject, neiertheless, to be contested as
the original might have been. But it does not
appear that the copy of this will was offered for
probate and admitted to record. Had it.been
so
offirerd, it might have been contested, and for any
thing that we can say, the sentence of the Court
of Probate might have been not to admit it to
record.
.3.The last point remains to be, considered.
That, the objection to the validity of this will to
pass the .lands in controversy to the respondents,
was not made in the Court below, ishighly probable, as we observe that it is not noticed, much
less relied upon, in the answer. Neverthelesb,.the
will, duly proved and recorded, according to the
laws of Ohio,. constituted the sole. title under
which the plaiptiffs in the Court*-below claimed
the lands in.dispute. It was as essential, therefore, to the establishment of that title, to allege
in the-bill, and to prove by the evidence, or by
the admission of the defendant, thadthis will had
been proved and -recorded, according to the laws'
of Ohio, as to set forth and prove the existence
of the will itself. The defect in tie title of the"
respondents appeais upon the face of the 'bill,
and as it.contains no allegation that a copy of the
Will had been duly proved and' recorded, the de-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fendant cannot be said to have admitted those
facts by not denying them in
• his answer.
The Court erred, therefore, in decreeing an assignment of all the warrants, entries, and surveys
under the warrants, to the complainants.
Considering, as. we must, in the present state of
the cause, that A. Moon died intestate as to these
lands, they of course descend to those persons who
are entitled to the same according to the laws of
Ohio; and this is a subject fit to be decided by the
Court below, to which the cause must be remanded for further proceedings.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings.

[Loc.L I.w.]
MEREDITH

and bthers, Appellants,
V.

PICIET

and others, Respondenft

Under the following entry, " H. R. enters SOO acres in Kentucky,
by virtue of a warrant for-military services performed by him in
the last war, in the fork ef the first fork of LVck ng, running up
each fork for quantity ;" it appeared in evidence, that at the first
fork of Lidking, the one fork was known and generally distinguished by the name of the South fork, and the other by the name
of the main Licking, or the Blue Lick fork, and that some miles
above this place the South fork again forked: hed, that the entry
could not be satisfied with lands lying in the first fork.

573
1824.
Meredit

v.
Picket.

