OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE
DIVISION, AVCO CORP. v. UNITED AUTOMOBILE,
AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT
WORKERS OF AMERICA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 97-463. Argued February 23, 1998-Decided May 18, 1998
Petitioner Textron Lycoming Reciprocating Engine Division (Textron)
and respondents-an international union and one of its locals (hereinafter Union), which represented approximately 500 Textron employees-were parties to a collective-bargaining agreement that prohibited
the Union from striking for any reason and required Textron to notify
the Union before entering into any agreement to "subcontract out" work
that would otherwise be performed by Union members. After Textron
announced plans to subcontract out enough work to cause roughly onehalf of the Union members to lose their jobs, the Union filed the present
complaint, which, inter alia, alleged that Textron had fraudulently induced the Union to sign the collective-bargaining agreement, and sought
damages and a declaratory judgment that the agreement was voidable
at the Union's option. The complaint invoked §301(a) of the Labor
Management Relations Act as the basis of federal subject-matter jurisdiction, but did not allege that either party had ever violated the terms
of the collective-bargaining agreement. The District Court dismissed
the complaint for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, concluding that the
cause of action alleged did not come within §301(a). The Third Circuit reversed.
Held Because the Union's complaint alleges no violation of the collectivebargaining agreement, neither this Court nor the federal courts below
have subject-matter jurisdiction under §301(a), which confers jurisdiction only over "[s]uits for violation of contracts." While a federal court
may, in the course of resolving a dispute concerning alleged violation of
a collective-bargaining agreement, adjudicate the affirmative defense
that the contract was invalid, see Kaiser Steel Corp. v. Mullins, 455
U. S. 72, 85-86, it has no jurisdiction to resolve such a contention independently of, rather than ancillary to, its power to adjudicate "[sluits
for violation of contracts." Here, since the Union neither alleges that
Textron has violated the contract, nor seeks declaratory relief from its
own alleged violation, §301(a) jurisdiction does not lie. The Union's

654 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of the Court
reliance upon the fact that it seeks a declaration of voidability under
the federal Delaratory Judgment Act rests on several less than certain
assumptions, Skelly Oil Co. v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 339 U. S. 667,
distinguished, but is in any event inadequate because there is no indication that either party has any interest in the contract's voidability, and
hence no case or controversy on this issue giving the Union access to
federal courts. Pp. 656-662.
117 F. 3d 119, reversed.
SCALuA, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, KENNEDY, SOUTER, THOMAS, and GINSBURG, JJ., joined. STEVENS, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 662.
BREYER, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, post, p. 662.

Timothy B. Dyk argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Andrew M. Kramer and Daniel H.
Bromberg.
Stephen A. Yokich argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Daniel W. Sherrick, Marsha S.
Berzon, James B. Coppess, and Laurence Gold.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The sole question presented for review is whether federal
courts have subject-matter jurisdiction of this case under
§301(a) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 61
Stat. 156, 29 U. S. C. § 185(a).
JUSTICE SCALIA

Petitioner, Textron Lycoming Reciprocating Engine Division (Textron), employs at its Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
plant approximately 500 members of respondents, the United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers
of America and its Local 187 (hereinafter UAW or Union).
From April 1, 1994, to April 1, 1997, Textron and the Union
were parties to a collective-bargaining agreement that pro*Solicitor General Waxman, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Lisa
Schiavo Blatt, FrederickL. Feinstein, Linda Sher, Norton J Come, and
John H. Ferguson filed a brief for the United States as amicus curiae
urging affirmance.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

hibited the Union from striking against Textron for any reason and, through the adoption of a separate memorandum
agreement, required Textron to give the Union seven days'
notice before entering into any agreement to "subcontract
out" work that would otherwise be performed by Union
members. In June 1994, Textron announced that it planned
to subcontract out a volume of work that would cause
roughly one-half of the Union members to lose their jobs.
Thereafter, in November 1995, the Union filed the present complaint in Federal District Court, alleging that Textron fraudulently induced the Union to sign the collectivebargaining agreement. Specifically, the Union claims that
both before and during negotiations it repeatedly asked Textron to provide any information it might have regarding
plans to subcontract out work that would otherwise be performed by Union members; and that during negotiations,
Textron had in fact completed such a plan, but despite the
Union's repeated requests said nothing about its existence.
As redress, the Union seeks "a declaratory judgment that
the existing collective bargaining agreement between the
parties is voidable at the option of [the] UAW," and "compensatory and punitive damages... to compensate [the Union
and its members] for the harm caused by [Textron's] misrepresentations and concealments and to deter other Employers
from similar conduct." App. 19. The Union does not allege
that either it or Textron ever violated the terms of the
collective-bargaining agreement. As the basis of federal
subject-matter jurisdiction, the complaint invokes § 301(a) of
the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. § 185(a). 1
1

The Union's brief before this Court asserts, in a footnote and without
elaboration, that "there may well be jurisdiction over this case under 28
U. S. C. § 1331 as well as under §301, since the case 'arises under' the
federal common law of contract." Brief for Respondents 23, n. 11. That
issue was not contained within the Question Presented in the Petition for
Certiorari, which read:
'Vhether Section 301 of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 29
U. S. C. § 185, which confers federal jurisdiction over '[sluits for violation
of contracts between an employer and a labor organization,' permits a

656 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of the Court

The District Court dismissed the complaint for lack of
subject-matter jurisdiction, concluding that the cause of action it set forth did not come within § 301(a). The Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed, 117 F. 3d 119 (1997);
we granted certiorari, 522 U. S. 979 (1997).
II
Section 301(a) of the Labor Management Relations Act,
1947, provides:
"Suits for violation of contracts between an employer
and a labor organization representing employees in an
industry affecting commerce as defined in this Act, or
between any such labor organizations, may be brought
in any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties, without respect to the amount in
controversy or without regard to the citizenship of the
parties." 61 Stat. 156, 29 U. S. C. § 185(a).
By its terms, this provision confers federal subject-matter
jurisdiction only over "[s]uits for violation of contracts."
The Union, and the Government in an amicus brief filed in
support of the Union, contend that this includes suits alleging that a contract is invalid. Focusing on the breadth of
the word "for," the Government argues that §301(a) "is
broad enough to encompass not only a suit that 'alleges' a
violation of contract, but also one that concerns a violation
of contract, or is intended to establish a legal right to engage
in what otherwise would be a contract violation." Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae 11 (footnotes omitted). It
is true enough, as the Government points out, that one of
the numerous definitions of the word "for" is "[i]ndicating
the end with reference to which anything acts, serves, or is
done; .... As a preparation towards, against, or in view of;
having as goal or object; .... With the purpose or object
of; ...with a view to." Webster's New International Dicunion to sue in federal court to declare a collective bargaining agreement
voidable in the absence of any alleged violation of the agreement."

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

tionary 984 (2d ed. 1950) (def. 2). Even applying that definition, the Government must make a considerable stretch
to bring the present case within it. This suit obviously does
not have as its "purpose or object" violation of any contract.
The most the Government can assert (and it falls short of the
definition) is that the suit seeks to facilitate "what otherwise
would be ... contract violation[s]." Brief for United States
11 (emphasis added).
More basically, however, it is a "fundamental principle of
statutory construction (and, indeed, of language itself) that
the meaning of a word cannot be determined in isolation, but
must be drawn from the context in which it is used." Deal
v. United States, 508 U. S. 129, 182 (1993). Accord, Cohen v.
de la Cruz, ante, at 220. It is not the meaning of "for" we
are seeking here, but the meaning of "[s]uits for violation
of contracts." That phrase cannot possibly bear the meaning ascribed to it by the Government. No one, for example,
would describe a corporation's harassing lawsuit against a
competitor as a "suit for unfair competition," even though
that is precisely its "goal or object." In the same vein, a
suit "for violation of a contract" is not one filed "with a view
to" a future contract violation (much less to facilitate action
that "otherwise would be" a contract violation). It is one
filed because a contract has been violated,just as a suit "for
unfair competition" is one filed because unfair competition
has occurred. In this context, the word "for" has an unmistakably backward-looking connotation, i. e., "[i]ndicating the
cause, motive, or occasion of an act, state, or condition; hence,
because of; on account of; in consequence of; as the effect
of; for the sake of; as, cursed himself for showing leniency."
Webster's New International Dictionary 984 (2d ed. 1950)
(det 7). "Suits for violation of contracts" under § 801(a) are
not suits that claim a contract is invalid, but suits that claim
a contract has been violated.
This does not mean that a federal court can never adjudicate the validity of a contract under §301(a). That provision

658 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of the Court

simply erects a gateway through which parties may pass into
federal court; once they have entered, it does not restrict the
legal landscape they may traverse. Thus if, in the course
of deciding whether a plaintiff is entitled to relief for the
defendant's alleged violation of a contract, the defendant interposes the affirmative defense that the contract was invalid, the court may, consistent with §301(a), adjudicate that
defense. See Kaiser Steel Corp. v. Mullins, 455 U. S. 72,
85-86 (1982). Similarly, a declaratory judgment plaintiff accused of violating a collective-bargaining agreement may ask
a court to declare the agreement invalid. But in these cases,
the federal court's power to adjudicate the contract's validity
is ancillary to, and not independent of, its power to adjudicate "[s]uits for violation of contracts."
This would seem to be the end of the matter. Here, the
Union neither alleges that Textron has violated the contract,
nor seeks declaratory relief from its own alleged violation.
Indeed, as far as the Union's complaint discloses, both parties
are in absolute compliance with the terms of the collectivebargaining agreement. Section 301(a) jurisdiction does not
lie over such a case.
The Union, however, asserts that the outcome is altered
by the fact that it seeks relief pursuant to the Declaratory
Judgment Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2201.2

It argues that in order

to determine whether §301(a) jurisdiction lies over the
declaratory-judgment aspect of its suit, we must look to the
character of the threatened action to which its suit would
interpose a defense, which in this case would be Textron's
action for breach of the collective-bargaining agreement. It
relies on our decision in Skelly Oil Co. v. PhillipsPetroleum
2The

Declaratory Judgment Act provides, in relevant part, that "[iln a
case of actual controversy within its jurisdiction, . . .any court of the
United States, upon the filing of an appropriate pleading, may declare the
rights and other legal relations of any interested party seeking such declaration, whether or not further relief is or could be sought." 28 U. S. C.
§2201(a).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

Co., 339 U. S. 667 (1950), which held that a declaratory action
asserting a federal defense to a nonfederal claim was not a
"civil actio[n] arising under the ... laws ... of the United
States" within the meaning of the federal-question jurisdiction statute, 28 U. S. C. § 1331. This argument makes
several assumptions that we do not think can be indulged.
First, it assumes that facts which were the converse of
Skelly Oil-i.e., a declaratory-judgment complaint raising a
nonfederal defense to an anticipated federal claim--would
confer § 1331 jurisdiction. That is not clear. It can be argued that anticipating a federal claim in a suit asserting a
nonfederal defense no more effectively invokes § 1331 jurisdiction than anticipating a federal defense in a suit asserting
a nonfederal claim. (The latter, of course, is barred by the
well-pleaded-complaint rule, see Rivet v. Regions Bank of
La., 522 U. S.470, 475 (1998).) Perhaps it was the purpose
of the Declaratory Judgment Act to permit such anticipation, see Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Construction Laborers Vacation Trust for Southern Cal., 463 U. S. 1, 19,
n. 19 (1983), but Skelly Oil did not present that issue, and
some of its language suggests that the declaratory-judgment
plaintiff must himself have a federal claim. 3 No decision
3

",Priorto [the Declaratory Judgment] Act, a federal court would entertain a suit on a contract only if the plaintiff asked for an immediately
enforceable remedy like money damages or an injunction .... The Declaratory Judgment Act allowed relief to be given by way of recognizing
the plaintiff's right even though no immediate enforcement of it was
asked." Skelly Oil Co. v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 339 U. S. 667, 671-672
(1950).
"[Ilt has been settled doctrine that where a suit is brought in the federal
courts 'upon the sole ground that the determination of the suit depends
upon some question of a Federal nature, it must appear, at the outset,
from the declaration or the bill of the party suing, that the suit is of that
character.' But 'a suggestion of one party, that the other will or may set
up a claim under the Constitution or laws of the United States, does not
make the suit one arising under that Constitution or those laws."' Id., at
672, quoting Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U.S. 454, 464
(1894).

660 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of the Court

of this Court has squarely confronted and explicitly upheld
federal-question jurisdiction on the basis of the anticipated
claim against which the declaratory-judgment plaintiff presents a nonfederal defense; and neither the Union nor the4
Government cites such a decision by any other federal court.
Second, the Union's Skelly Oil argument assumes that
what would suffice to sustain a declaratory-judgment action
premised on § 1331 federal-question jurisdiction would suffice
to sustain a declaratory-judgment action brought under
§301(a). But the language of the two provisions is quite
different. Whereas § 1331 authorizes "civil actions arising
under the .

.

. laws .

.

. of the United States" (which can

arguably embrace a civil action presenting a defense to a
federal claim), § 301(a) authorizes only "[s]uits for violation
of contracts."
But assuming (without deciding) that the converse of
Skelly Oil confers § 1331 jurisdiction, and that what suffices
for § 1331 suffices for § 301(a) as well, the Union's prayer for
a declaration that the collective-bargaining agreement was
voidable is in our view inadequate to save the present suit,
because it does not, and as far as the record shows it never
did, present a case or controversy giving the Union access
to federal courts. That is obviously so at the present time,
because the collective-bargaining agreement, whether voidable or not, has expired; the only question is whether the
parties had any concrete dispute over the contract's voidability at the time the suit was filed.
4

1n Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Construction Laborers Vacation
Trust for Southern Cal., 463 U. S. 1 (1983), we observed, with seeming
approval, that "[f]ederal courts have regularly taken original jurisdiction
over declaratory judgment suits in which, if the declaratory judgment
defendant brought a coercive action to enforce its rights, that suit would
necessarily present a federal question." Id., at 19. The cases brought
forward to support that observation, however, were suits by alleged
patent infringers to declare a patent invalid, which of course themselves
raise a federal question. See id., at 19, n. 19.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

We see no evidence that they did. To be sure, Textron
vigorously contested the complaint's allegations of fraud that
are the asserted cause of the claimed voidability as well as
of the claimed damages; but that is no indication that Textron
had any interest in defending the binding nature of the contract. Indeed, there is not even any indication that the
Union had a concrete interest in establishing the nonbinding
nature of the contract. This was not (as one might have
expected in a declaratory-judgment suit of this sort) a situation in which the Union had threatened to strike over the
contracting-out, and Textron had asserted that a strike
would violate the collective-bargaining agreement. The
Union never threatened to strike. As far as appears, the
company that had just eliminated the work of half its Williamsport employees would have been perfectly willing to be
excused from a contract negotiated when the Union was in a
stronger bargaining position, and the Union had no intent or
disposition to exercise a theoretical option to avoid a contract
that was better than what it could negotiate anew. The fact
that the fraud damages claim, if successful, would establish
a voidability that (as far as appears) no one cared about, does
not make the question of voidability a "case of actual controversy," 28 U. S. C. §2201, over which federal courts have
§301(a) jurisdiction. "The Declaratory Judgment Act of
1934, in its limitation to 'cases of actual controversy,' manifestly has regard to the constitutional provision [Art. III, § 2]
and is operative only in respect to controversies which are
such in the constitutional sense." Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Haworth, 300 U. S. 227, 239-240 (1937). See also Public
Serv. Comm'n of Utah v. Wycoff Co., 344 U. S. 237, 242-243
(1952).
Because the Union's complaint alleges no violation of the
collective-bargaining agreement, neither we nor the federal
courts below have subject-matter jurisdiction over this case

662 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of BREYER, J.

under §301(a) of the Labor Management Relations Act. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.
concurring.
If the Union's allegations are true, it seems clear that petitioner violated its statutory duty to bargain in good faith.
Our conclusion that the federal courts do not have §301(a)
jurisdiction over the Union's suit therefore comports with
the important goal of protecting the primary jurisdiction of
the National Labor Relations Board in resolving disputes
arising from the collective-bargaining process. As the
Court has long recognized, "[it is implicit in the entire structure of the [National Labor Relations] Act that the Board
acts to oversee and referee the process of collective bargaining." H. K. PorterCo. v. NLRB, 397 U. S. 99, 107-108 (1970).
"Congress evidently considered that centralized administration of specially designed procedures was necessary to obtain
uniform application of its substantive rules." Garner v.
Teamsters, 346 U. S. 485, 490 (1953). The rules governing
disputes that arise out of the collective-bargaining process
are within the special competence of the National Labor Relations Board. Cf. San Diego Building Trades Council v.
Garmon, 359 U. S. 236, 245 (1959). The fact that the Board
undoubtedly has more expertise in the collective-bargaining
area than federal judges provides an additional reason for
concluding that Congress meant what it said in §301(a) and
for rejecting the Union's and the Government's broad reading of the "[s]uits for violation of contracts" language.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

JUSTICE BREYER, concurring in part and concurring in
the judgment.
I agree with the first five pages of the Court's opinion.
See ante, at 654-658. I also agree with the Court that the
Union failed to show (or even to allege) a significant likelihood that it would strike and that Textron would then sue it

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

for breach of its collective-bargaining agreement. See ante,
at 661. I write separately, however, because this factual
circumstance has more significance than the Court's opinion
suggests. See ante, at 658-660. Indeed, in my view, if the
Union had shown that a strike and consequent employer
breach-of-contract lawsuit were imminent, then the Declaratory Judgment Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2201, would have authorized the District Court to adjudicate this controversy. Unlike the Court, I would not leave the matter undecided.
My conclusion flows from the following two legal propositions: Proposition One. The Declaratory Judgment Act
permits a federal court to "declare the rights and other legal
relations of any interested party" as long as there exists an
"actual controversy" that is "within [the] jurisdiction" of a
federal court. 28 U. S. C. §2201(a).
PropositionTwo. Section 301 of the Labor Management
Relations Act, 1947 (LMRA), 29 U. S. C. § 185(a), permits a
federal court to adjudicate both an employer's claim that
a contract's (i. e., a collective-bargaining agreement's) "no
strike" clause forbids an ongoing strike and the related
Union defense that it is free to strike because the contract
itself is invalid. See ante, at 657-658; Brief for Petitioner
29 ("[B]efore enforcing an agreement, courts must adjudicate
affirmative defenses such as fraud.., in the collective bargaining process"); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae
13-14; Kaiser Steel Corp. v. Mullins, 455 U. S. 72, 85-86
(1982).
Proposition One means that the Declaratory Judgment
Act gives a federal court the power to declare the "rights"
and "legal relations" of both union and employer where the
"controversy" described in PropositionTwo is "actual," e. g.,
where the strike and consequent employer lawsuit is imminent. Moreover, this Court has pointed out that "[f]ederal
courts have regularly taken original jurisdiction over declaratory judgment suits in which, if the declaratory judgment
defendant [such as the employer here] brought a coercive

664 TEXTRON LYCOMING RECIPROCATING ENGINE DIV.,
AVCO CORP. v. AUTOMOBILE WORKERS
Opinion of BREYER, J.

action to enforce its rights, that suit would necessarily present a federal question." FranchiseTax Bd. of Cal. v. Construction Laborers Vacation Trust for Southern Cal., 463
U. S. 1, 19 (1983). Hence the characterization of the Union's
"no valid contract" claim as a "defense" that could not independently support §301 jurisdiction is beside the point. See
ibid.; Public Serv. Comm'n of Utah v. Wycoff Co., 344 U. S.
237, 248 (1952) (in declaratory judgment context, "it is the
character of the threatened action, and not of the defense,
which will determine whether there is federal-question jurisdiction in the District Court"); see also 10A C. Wright, A.
Miller, & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure §2767,
p. 741 (2d ed. 1983) ("federal nature of the right claimed not
to exist is crucial to jurisdiction").
This conclusion draws support in principle from the Declaratory Judgment Act's basic objective, which is "to permit
adjudication of either party's claims of right." Franchise
Tax Board, supra, at 19, n. 19. And the conclusion draws
support in practice from the prevalence in the lower courts
of "reverse" declaratory judgment actions that focus upon a
party's likely defense, including actions found in contexts such
as that now before us. See, e. g., El Paso Bldg. & Constr.
Trades Council v. Associated Gen. Contractorsof Am., 376
F. 2d 797, 799-800 (CA5 1967) (union threatened to strike,
then filed declaratory judgment action for determination
of contract's validity, and court took jurisdiction under § 301);
McNally Pittsburg,Inc. v. InternationalAssn. of Bridge,
Structural, and Ornamental Iron Workers, 812 F. 2d 615
(CA10 1987) (where actual controversy existed with union,
employer allowed to seek prospective declaration that contract was invalid); Mobil Oil Corp. v. Oil, Chemical and
Atomic Workers Int'l Union, AFL-CIO, 483 F. 2d 603 (CA5
1973) (same), rev'd on other grounds, 504 F. 2d 272 (1974)
(en banc). Cf. Walker Process Equipment,Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 382 U. S. 172, 176 (1965) (one
likely to be sued for patent infringement "need not await the

Cite as: 523 U. S. 653 (1998)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

filing of a threatened suit by the patentee; the validity of the
patent may be tested under the Declaratory Judgment Act").
I cannot find any reason for an exception that would forbid
"reverse" declaratory judgment actions in labor law contexts
such as this one. To the contrary, this Court has suggested
that the availability of declaratory judgment actions furthers
the LMRA's basic purposes. See Textile Workers v. Lincoln
Mills of Ala., 353 U. S. 448, 454-455 (1957) (§301 designed
to promote "industrial peace" by "provid[ing] the necessary
legal remedies"); id., at 455-456 (quoting from floor statement of Representative Barden, 93 Cong. Rec. 3656-3657
(1947), that "the section... contemplates not only the ordinary lawsuits for damages but also such other remedial proceedings, both legal and equitable, as might be appropriate
...[including a suit] under the Declaratory Judgments Act
in order to secure declarations from the Court of legal rights
under the contract"); Smith v. Evening News Assn., 371 U. S.
195, 199 (1962) ("[Section] 301 is not to be given a narrow
reading"). And the Government, in an amicus curiae brief,
tells us that such an action would not interfere with the National Labor Relations Board's administration of federal
labor law. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae
27 ("The Board... has concluded in this and other cases...
that a suit under Section 301(a) to declare a contract voidable
based on fraud in the inducement does not unduly intrude
upon its authority").
Thus Declaratory Judgment Act jurisdiction would lie in a
case like this one, provided, however, that the declaratory
judgment plaintiff demonstrates an "actual controversy."
28 U. S. C. §2201(a); Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth,300 U. S.
227, 239-240 (1937). The Union failed to make any such
showing here, and for that reason I agree with the Court's
ultimate conclusion.

