OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT
No. 97-372.

Argued March 4,1998-Decided March 31, 1998

The Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) obligates exporters, importers, and
domestic shippers, 26 U. S. C. § 4461(c)(1), to pay 0.125 percent of the
value of the commercial cargo they ship through the Nation's ports,
§ 4461(a). The HMT is imposed at the time of loading for exports and
unloading for other shipments. §4461(c)(2). It is collected by the Customs Service and deposited in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
(Fund), from which Congress may appropriate amounts to pay for harbor maintenance and development projects and related expenses.
§ 9505. Respondent United States Shoe Corporation (U. S. Shoe) paid
the HMT for articles the company exported during the period April to
June 1994 and then filed a protest with the Customs Service alleging
that, to the extent the toll applies to exports, it violates the Export
Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, § 9, cl. 5, which states: "No Tax or Duty shall
be laid on Articles exported from any State." The Customs Service
responded to U. S. Shoe with a form letter stating that the HMT is a
statutorily mandated user fee, not an unconstitutional tax on exports.
U. S. Shoe then sued for a refund, asserting that the HMT violates the
Export Clause as applied to exports. In granting U. S. Shoe summary
judgment, the Court of International Trade (CIT) held that it had jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1581(i) and that the HMT qualifies as a tax.
Rejecting the Government's characterization of the HMT as a user fee,
the CIT reasoned that the tax is assessed ad valorem directly upon the
value of the cargo itself, not upon any services rendered for the cargo.
The Federal Circuit affirmed.
Held,
1. The CIT properly entertained jurisdiction in this case. Section
1581(i)(4) gives that court residual jurisdiction over "any civil action...
against the United States ... that arises out of any [federal] law...
providing for. . . administration and enforcement with respect to the
matters referred to in [§ 1581(i)(1)]," which in turn applies to "revenue
from imports." This dispute involves such a law. The HMT statute,
although applied to exports here, applies equally to imports. That
§ 1581(i) does not use the word "exports" is hardly surprising in view of
the Export Clause, which confines customs duties to imports. More-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 360 (1998)
Syllabus
over, 26 U. S. C. §4462(f)(2) directs that the HMT "be treated as... a
customs duty" for jurisdictional purposes. Such duties, by their very
nature, provide for revenue from imports and are encompassed within
28 U. S. C. § 1581(i)(1). Accordingly, CIT jurisdiction over controversies regarding HMT administration and enforcement accords with
§ 1581(i)(4). Pp. 365-366.
2. Although the Export Clause categorically bars Congress from imposing any tax on exports, United States v. InternationalBusiness Machines Corp., 517 U. S. 843 (IBM), it does not rule out a "user fee" that
lacks the attributes of a generally applicable tax or duty and is, instead,
a charge designed as compensation for Government-supplied services,
facilities, or benefits, see Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372, 375-376. The
HMT, however, is a tax, and thus violates the Export Clause as applied
to exports. Pp. 366-370.
(a) The HMT bears the indicia of a tax: Congress expressly described it as such, 26 U. S. C. §4461(a), codified it as part of the Internal
Revenue Code, and provided that, for administrative, enforcement, and
jurisdictional purposes, it should be treated "as if [it] were a customs
duty," §§4462(f)(1), (2). Prior cases in which this Court upheld flat and
ad valorem charges as valid user fees do not govern here because they
involved constitutional provisions other than the Export Clause. IBM
plainly stated that the Export Clause's simple, direct, unqualified prohibition on any taxes or duties distinguishes it from other constitutional
limitations on governmental taxing authority. 517 U. S., at 851, 852,
857, 861. Pp. 366-369.
(b) The guiding precedent for determining what constitutes a bona
fide user fee in the Export Clause context remains this Court's timetested Pace decision. The Pace Court upheld a fee for stamps placed
on tobacco packaged for export. The stamp was required to prevent
fraud, and the charge for it, the Court said, served as "compensation
given for services [in fact] rendered." 92 U. S., at 375. In holding that
the fee was not a duty, the Court emphasized that the charge bore no
relationship to the quantity or value of the goods stamped for export.
Ibid. Pace establishes that, under the Export Clause, the connection
between a service the Government renders and the compensation it receives for that service must be closer than is present here. Unlike the
fee at issue in Pace, the HMT is determined entirely on an ad valorem
basis. The value of export cargo, however, does not correlate reliably
with the federal harbor services, facilities, and benefits used or usable
by the exporter. The Court's holding does not mean that exporters are
exempt from any and all user fees designed to defray the cost of harbor

362

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.
Opinion of the Court

development and maintenance. It does mean, however, that such a fee
must fairly match the exporters' use of port services and facilities.
Pp. 369-370.
114 F. 3d 1564, affirmed.
GINSBURG, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for
the United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor
General Waxman, Assistant Attorney General Hunger,
Kent L. Jones, David M. Cohen, Todd M. Hughes, and Lara
Levinson.
James R. Atwood argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Brian S. Goldstein, Steven S. Weiser,
Laurence M. Friedman,Paul A. Horowitz, and Robert A.
Long, Jr.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Export Clause of the Constitution states: "No Tax or
Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State."
JUSTICE GINSBURG

*Hardy Myers, Attorney General of Oregon, Michael D. Reynolds, Solicitor General, David Schuman, Deputy Attorney General, and Robert M.
Atkinson, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief for the State of Oregon
as amicus curiaeurging reversal.
Briefs of amici curiaeurging affirmance were filed for Addison Wesley
Longman et al. by Carlos Rodriguez and Todd C. Fineberg;for the Aluminum Co. of America et al. by Melvin S. Schwechter, John C. Cleary, and
Julie A Coletti; for Baxter Healthcare Corp. et al. by Mark S. Zolno and
Michael E. Roll; for Boise Cascade et al. by Steven P. Florsheim,Robert
B. Silverman, and Erik D. Smithweiss; for Cobe Laboratories, Inc., et al.
by Lynn S. Baker, Thomas E. Johnson, and Gregory W. Bowman; for
General Chemical Corp. et al. by Patrick D. Gill, John S. Rode, and Eleanore Kelly-Kobayashi; for the National Industrial Transportation League
by Nicholas J DiMichael; and for Texaco Refining and Marketing, Inc.,
et al. by Steven H. Becker and Charles H. Critchlow.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Amoco Chemical Co. by Robert E.
Burke and Christopher E. Pey; for Arctic Cat, Inc., et al. by Robert J
Hennessey; for New Holland North America, Inc., et al. by Munford Page
Hall II and John B. Rehm; and for Totes-Isotoner Corp. et al. by John M.
Peterson and George W. Thompson.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 860 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

U. S. Const., Art; I, §9, cl. 5. We held in United States v.

InternationalBusiness Machines Corp., 517 U. S. 843 (1996)
(IBM), that the Export Clause categorically bars Congress
from imposing any tax on exports. The Clause, however,
does not rule out a "user fee," provided that the fee lacks
the attributes of a generally applicable tax or duty and is,
instead, a charge designed as compensation for Governmentsupplied services, facilities, or benefits. See Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372, 375-376 (1876). This case presents the
question whether the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT), 26
U. S. C. § 4461(a), as applied to goods loaded at United States
ports for export, is an impermissible tax on exports or, instead, a legitimate user fee. We hold, in accord with the
Federal Circuit, that the tax, which is imposed on an ad valorem basis, is not a fair approximation of services, facilities,
or benefits furnished to the exporters, and therefore does not
qualify as a permissible user fee.
I
The HMT, enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, 26 U. S. C. §§ 4461-4462, imposes a uniform charge on shipments of commercial cargo through the
Nation's ports. The charge is currently set at 0.125 percent
of the cargo's value. Exporters, importers, and domestic
shippers are liable for the HMT, §4461(c)(1), which is imposed at the time of loading for exports and unloading for
other shipments, §4461(c)(2). The HMT is collected by the
Customs Service and deposited in the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund (Fund). Congress may appropriate amounts
from the Fund to pay for harbor maintenance and development projects, including costs associated with the St. Lawrence Seaway, or related expenses. § 9505.
Respondent United States Shoe Corporation (U. S. Shoe)
paid the HMT for articles the company exported during the
period April to June 1994 and then filed a protest with the
Customs Service alleging the unconstitutionality of the toll

364

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.

Opinion of the Court

to the extent it applies to exports. The Customs Service
responded with a form letter stating that the HMT is a statutorily mandated fee assessment on port users, not an unconstitutional tax on exports. On November 3, 1994, U. S. Shoe
brought this action against the Government in the Court of
International Trade (CIT). The company sought a refund
on the ground that the HMT is unconstitutional as applied
to exports.
Sitting as a three-judge court, the CIT held that its jurisdiction was properly invoked under 28 U. S. C. § 1581(i); on
the merits, the CIT agreed with U. S. Shoe that the HMT
qualifies as a tax.

907 F. Supp. 408 (1995).

Rejecting the

Government's characterization of the HMT as a user fee
rather than a tax, the CIT reasoned: "The Tax is assessed
ad valorem directly upon the value of the cargo itself, not
upon any services rendered for the cargo ....

Congress

could not have imposed the Tax any closer to exportation,
or more immediate to the articles exported." Id., at 418.
Relying on the Export Clause, the CIT entered summary
judgment for U. S. Shoe.
The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, sitting as a
five-judge panel, affirmed. 114 F. 3d 1564 (1997). On auxiliary questions, the Federal Circuit upheld the CIT's exercise
of jurisdiction under § 1581(i) and agreed with the lower
court that the HMT applied to goods in export transit.'
Concluding that the HMT is not based on a fair approximation of port use, the Federal Circuit also agreed that the
HMT imposes a tax, not a user fee. In making this determination, the Court of Appeals emphasized that the HMT does
not depend on the amount or manner of port use, but is determined solely by the value of cargo. Judge Mayer dissented; in his view, Congress properly designed the HMT as
a user fee, a toll on shippers that supplies funds not for the
I The Government does not here challenge the determination that the
HMT applies to goods in export transit.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 360 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

general support of government, but exclusively for the facilitation of commercial navigation.
Numerous cases challenging the constitutionality of the
HMT as applied to exports are currently pending in the CIT
and the Court of Federal Claims. 2 We granted certiorari,
522 U. S. 944 (1997), to review the Federal Circuit's determination that the HMT violates the Export Clause.
II
As an initial matter, we conclude that the CIT properly
entertained jurisdiction in this case. The complaint alleged
exclusive original jurisdiction in that tribunal under 28
U. S. C. § 1581(a) or, alternatively, § 1581(i). App. 26. We
agree with the CIT and the Federal Circuit that § 1581(i) is
the applicable jurisdictional prescription. The key directive
is stated in 26 U. S. C. §4462(f)(2), which instructs that for
jurisdictional purposes, the HMT "shall be treated as if such
tax were a customs duty."
Section 1581(a) surely concerns customs duties. It confers exclusive original jurisdiction on the CIT in "any civil
action commenced to contest the [Customs Service's] denial
of a protest." A protest, as indicated in 19 U. S. C. § 1514,
is an essential prerequisite when one challenges an actual
Customs decision. As to the HMT, however, the Federal
Circuit correctly noted that protests are not pivotal, for Customs "performs no active role," it undertakes "no analysis
[or adjudication]," "issues no directives," "imposes no liabilities"; instead, Customs "merely passively collects" HMT payments. 114 F. 3d, at 1569.
Section 1581(i) describes the CIT's residual jurisdiction
over
2

According to the Government, some 4,000 cases raising this claim are
currently stayed in the CIT, with more than 100 additional cases stayed
in the Court of Federal Claims. See Brief for United States 4.

366

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.
Opinion of the Court

"any civil action commenced against the United States
... that arises out of any law of the United States providing for -

"(1) revenue from imports or tonnage;
"(4) administration and enforcement with respect to
the matters referred to in paragraphs (1)-(3) of this
subsection .... "
This dispute, as the Federal Circuit stated, "involve[s] the
'administration and enforcement' of a law providing for revenue from imports because the HMT statute, although applied
to exports here, does apply equally to imports." 114 F. 3d,
at 1571. True, § 1581(i) does not use the word "exports."
But that is hardly surprising in view of the Export Clause,
which confines customs duties to imports. Revenue from
imports and revenue from customs duties are thus synonymous in this setting. In short, as the CIT correctly concluded and the Federal Circuit correctly affirmed, "Congress
[in §4462(f)(2)] directed [that] the [HMT] be treated as a customs duty for purposes of jurisdiction. Such duties, by their
very nature, provide for revenue from imports, and are encompassed within [§ ]1581(i)(1)." 907 F. Supp., at 421. Accordingly, CIT jurisdiction over controversies regarding the
administration and enforcement of the HMT accords with
§ 1581(i)(4). 3
III
Two Terms ago, in IBM, this Court considered the question whether a tax on insurance premiums paid to protect
"Because we determine that the CIT has exclusive jurisdiction over
challenges to the HMT under § 1581(i)(4), it follows that the Court of Federal Claims lacks jurisdiction over the challenges to the HMT currently
pending there. See 28 U. S. C. § 1491(b). The plaintiffs in these challenges may invoke § 1631, which authorizes intercourt transfers, when "in
the interest of justice," to cure want of jurisdiction. See also § 610 (as
used in Title 28, the term "court" includes the Court of Federal Claims
and the CIT).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 860 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

exports against loss violated the Export Clause. Distinguishing case law developed under the Commerce Clause,
517 U. S., at 850-852, and the Import-Export Clause, id., at
857-861, the Court held that the Export Clause allows no
room for any federal tax, however generally applicable or
nondiscriminatory, on goods in export transit. Before this
Court's decision in IBM, the Government argued that the
HMT, even if characterized as a "tax" rather than a "user
fee," should survive constitutional review "because it applies
without discrimination to exports, imports and domestic
commerce alike." Reply Brief for United States 9, n. 2.
Recognizing that IBM "rejected an indistinguishable contention," the Government now asserts only that HMT is "'a
permissible user fee,"' Reply Brief for United States 9,
n. 2, a toll within the tolerance of Export Clause precedent.
Adhering to the Court's reasoning in IBM, we reject the
Government's current position.
The HMT bears the indicia of a tax. Congress expressly
described it as "a tax on any port use," 26 U. S. C. §4461(a)
(emphasis added), and codified the HMT as part of the Internal Revenue Code. In like vein, Congress provided that, for
administrative, enforcement, and jurisdictional purposes, the
HMT should be treated "as if [it] were a customs duty."
§§ 4462(f)(1), (2). However, "we must regard things rather
than names," Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S., at 376, in determining
whether an imposition on exports ranks as a tax. The crucial question is whether the HMT is a tax on exports in operation as well as nomenclature or whether, despite the label
Congress has put on it, the exaction is instead a bona fide
user fee.
In arguing that the HMT constitutes a user fee, the Government relies on our decisions in United States v. Sperry
Corp., 493 U. S. 52 (1989), Massachusetts v. United States,
435 U. S. 444 (1978), and Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport
Authority Dist. v. Delta Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S. 707 (1972).
In those cases, this Court upheld flat and ad valorem charges

368

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.
Opinion of the Court

as valid user fees. See United States v. Sperry Corp., 493
U. S., at 62 (1 percent ad valorem fee applied to awards
certified by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal qualifies
as a user fee and is not so excessive as to violate the Takings
Clause); Massachusetts v. United States, 435 U. S., at 463467 (flat federal registration fee imposed annually on all civil
aircraft meets genuine user fee standards and, as applied to
state-owned aircraft, does not dishonor State's immunity
from federal taxation); Evansville-VanderburghAirport Authority, 405 U. S., at 717-721 (flat charge for each passenger
enplaning, levied for the maintenance of State's airport facilities, does not run afoul of the dormant Commerce Clause).
Those decisions involved constitutional provisions other than
the Export Clause, however, and thus do not govern here.
IBM plainly stated that the Export Clause's simple, direct,
unqualified prohibition on any taxes or duties distinguishes it
from other constitutional limitations on governmental taxing
authority. The Court there emphasized that the "text of the
Export Clause... expressly prohibits Congress from laying
any tax or duty on exports." 517 U. S., at 852; see also id.,
at 861 ("[T]he Framers sought to alleviate.., concerns [that
Northern States would tax exports to the disadvantage of
Southern States] by completely denying to Congress the
power to tax exports at all."). Accordingly, the Court reasoned in IBM, "[olur decades-long struggle over the meaning
of the nontextual negative command of the dormant Commerce Clause does not lead to the conclusion that our interpretation of the textual command of the Export Clause is
equally fluid." Id., at 851; see also id., at 857 ("We have
good reason to hesitate before adopting the analysis of our
recent Import-Export Clause cases into our Export Clause
jurisprudence.... [M]eaningful textual differences exist [between the two Clauses] and should not be overlooked."). In
Sperry, moreover, we noted that the Takings Clause imposes
fewer constraints on user fees than does the dormant Commerce Clause. See 493 U. S., at 61, n. 7 (analysis under Tak-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 360 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

ings Clause is less "exacting" than under the dormant Commerce Clause). Afortiori,therefore, the Takings Clause is
less restrictive than the Export Clause.
The guiding precedent for determining what constitutes a
bona fide user fee in the Export Clause context remains our
time-tested decision in Pace. Pace involved a federal excise
tax on tobacco. Congress provided that the tax would not
apply to tobacco intended for export. To prevent fraud,
however, Congress required that tobacco the manufacturer
planned to export carry a stamp indicating that intention.
Each stamp cost 25 cents (later 10 cents) per package of tobacco. Congress did not limit the quantity or value of the
tobacco packaged for export or the size of the stamped package; "[t]hese were unlimited, except by the discretion of the
exporter or the convenience of handling." 92 U. S., at 375.
The Court upheld the charge, concluding that it was "in no
sense a duty on exportation," but rather "compensation
given for services [in fact] rendered." Ibid. In so ruling,
the Court emphasized two characteristics of the charge: It
"bore no proportion whatever to the quantity or value of the
package on which [the stamp] was affixed"; and the fee was
not excessive, taking into account the cost of arrangements
needed both "to give to the exporter the benefit of exemption from taxation, and ... to secure ... against the perpetration of fraud." Ibid.
Pace establishes that, under the Export Clause, the connection between a service the Government renders and the
compensation it receives for that service must be closer than
is present here. Unlike the stamp charge in Pace, the HMT
is determined entirely on an ad valorem basis. The value of
export cargo, however, does not correlate reliably with the
federal harbor services used or usable by the exporter. As
the Federal Circuit noted, the extent and manner of port use
depend on factors such as the size and tonnage of a vessel,
the length of time it spends in port, and the services it requires, for instance, harbor dredging. See 114 F. 3d, at 1572.

370

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES SHOE CORP.
Opinion of the Court

In sum, if we are "to guard against... the imposition of
a [tax] under the pretext of fixing a fee," Pace v. Burgess, 92
U. S., at 376, and resist erosion of the Court's decision in
IBM, we must hold that the HMT violates the Export Clause
as applied to exports. This does not mean that exporters
are exempt from any and all user fees designed to defray the
cost of harbor development and maintenance. It does mean,
however, that such a fee must fairly match the exporters'
use of port services and facilities.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit is
Affirmed.

