OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN PACKING COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 85, 86. Argued- November 29, 1905.-Decided December 18, 1905.
Appellant without authority settled on a tract of land on Afognak Island,

Alaska, prior to 1891, and erected a cannery. -After the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 1100,, it applied for a survey of the land occupied by it
and deposited the money therefor. The survey was made, approved and
forwarded to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. On December
24, 1892, the President, under provisions of the said act of March 3, 1891,
by proclamation, declared the whole island reserved for fish culture. The
survey was rejected on that and other grounds and appellant was ordered,
to leave the island, which it did. Thereupon it sued in the Court of
Claims for value of its improvements and for loss of business. The claim
was disallowed except for cost of survey. In affirming the judgment
held that:
The mere settlement upon public lands and making improvements thereon
without taking some steps required by law to initiate the settler's right
thereto, is wholly inoperative as against the United States.
This rule is not affected as to lands in Alaska by any. provisions of the act
of May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, providing a civil government for Alaska.
Although the occupation and cultivation of public lands with a view to
predmption confers a preference over others in the purchase of such lands
by the bona fide settler which will enable him to protect his possession
against other individuals, it does not confer any vested rights as against
the United States.
Under tLe preemption laws a purchaser availing of .the provisions of the
act of March 3, 1891, to purchase land in Alaska acquires no vested rights
by the mere deposit for the survey or until the purchase price is paid to,
and receipt given therefor by, the proper land officer, and until this is
done' Congress may withdraw the land from entry and sale although
inchoate rights of settlers may be defeated.
The provisions of § 14 of the act of March 3, 1891, authorized the reservation of the land for fish culture, and the exercise of this reserved power.
terminated all the rights 6f one who as a mere trespasser had settled
thereon and made improvements prior to the Passage of the act.

THIS is an appeal from a judgment of'the Court of Claims,
rejecting a claim of the Russian-American Packing Company

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

571

Statement of the Case.

for the value of certain improvements erected by it on the island of Afognak, off the coast of Alaska. The Packing Company was incorporated in 1889, under the laws of California,
for the purpose of carrying on the business of packing salmon
on the island of Afognak; and for that purpose purchased and
shipped materials for a cannery and buildings to be used in canning salmon, and also, without authority or license from. the
United States, took possession of a tract of about 159.52 acres
of land, and erected thereon buildings, machinery, etc., at a
cost of about $45,000. Prior to this time no one had been in
possession of this tract. Claimants remained in possession for
four years, and until December 24, 1892, and carried on a canning business at a profit of about $100,000, about $35,000 of
which was subsequent to the passage of the act of March 3,
18,91.
On April 1, 1892, claimant applied to the Surveyor General
for a survey of the tract, under the act of 1891, and deposited
in the subtreasury at San Francisco $433.80, as the estimated
cost of such survey. The survey was made, was approved
March 15, 1893, and forwarded to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office. Prior to December 24, 1892, the tract
so occupied had not been reserved by the United States for
fish culture, or any other purpose; nor had the same been purchased or applied for by any other person. On that day the
President issued a proclamation declaring the whole island reserved for the purpose of establishing thereon a United States
fish culture station, and warned all persons to depart therefrom. In July, 1893, claimantwas informed of this proclamation by agents of the Government, and ordered to leave the
island, which it did, and has not returned thereto. On January 15, 1895, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, in
passing upon the survey transmitted to him, addressed a letter
to the Surveyor General, calling 'attention to the President's
•proclamation, and rejected the survey on that ground, as well
as upon the ground that the survey was not in square form, as
required by statute. No appeal was taken from his decision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

199 U. S.

The court found as a conclusion of law that claimant was not
entitled to recompense for the value of the improvements, nor
for the loss of profits arising from its removal from the island;
but was entitled to recover the amount deposited for the expense of the survey.
Mr. Alexander Britton, with whom Mr. Aldis B. Browne was*
on the brief, for appellants in this case and in No. 86 argued
simultaneously herewith.'
The United States is liable to the claimant for the loss of its
improvements placed upon the public lands in Alaska under a
claim of occupancy, and the loss of its business carried on upon
such lands caused by the act of the executive branch of the
Government in withdrawing same from disposition and reserving them for public purposes. The Government is so liable,
both upon general principles of law and also by virtue of the
act of Congress approved May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24.
The Packing Company entered upon Afognak Island in the
year 1889 and erected many and valuable improvements
thereon, relying upon its right of possession and its belief that
Congress would by future legislation provide a means whereby
it and other claimants to public lands in Alaska could obtain
title thereto. Congress did enact such legislation by the act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095.
The Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, does not apply. See
Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 333.
The declaration in § 8 of the act of May 17, 1884, was a solemn assurance by Congress that the persons in possession of the
public lands of Alaska should be permitted to acquire title
thereto without being disturbed in their possession. It was in
the nature of a statutory contract whereby the United States
obligated itself to protect the settlers of Alaska and confer
upon them title to the lands occupied by them without the
danger of any interference or molestations by others, even the
I Royal Packing Company v.

United States, p. 579 post.

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

573

Argument for Appellants.

United States itself. Young v. Goldsteen, 97 Fed. Rep. 303;
United States v. Tichenor, 8 Sawyer, 142, 152.
This contractual obligation of the Government under the act
of 1884 was similar to its obligations under an Indian treaty.
United States v. Carpenter,111 U. S. 347.
All acts of Congress providing means of disposing of its vacant public lands are in the nature of contracts, obligating the
United States to grant the individual a patent whenever he has
complied with the provisions of law in that particular case.
Whenever the individual, in good faith, initiates a claim by
settlement, occupation and improvements, he thereby acquires
an inchoate right, which must ripen into a perfect title, whenever
he has completed his period of residence, amount of cultivation,
or other specific requirement of the law. Stark v. Stars, 6 Wall.
415; Garland v. Wynne, 20 How. 6; Lindsay v. Hawks, 2 Black,
554; Landes v. Brandt, 10 How. 348, 372; Gibson v. Choteau,
13 Wall. 92, 100; Land Company v. Rush, 168 U. S. 589; In re.
Hastings & Dakota Ry., 18 L. D. 511, 518; Hagen v. Nor. Pac.
Ry., 26 S. Dak. 312; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 513; L. L. &
G. Ry. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S.
761; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456; Brown v. Hitchcock,
173 U. S. 478.
It is contrary to the most elementary principles of public
land law to say that patent alone can divest the United States
of the power of disposing of land, and it is equally erroneous to
say that no reciprocal obligation exists unless the United States
can force the individual claimant to complete his claim by actual payment for the land. Every act of Congress authorizing
settlement upon or entry of its vacant public lands holds out
the obligation of the Government to grant the patent. .The
actual settlement, the occupation and improvement of the land,
are the material factors, and rights are thereby acquired which
the United States cannot and will not repudiate. Osborn v.
United States, 33 C. Cl. 304; and see General Circular, Land
Department, June 3, 1891, promulgating regulations under
the actof March 3, 1891.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

199 U. S.

The deposit which was made was in excess of the purchase
price of the land, and thus was a complete compliance by the
claimant with each and every requirement of the law, and
brings it well within the decisions cited supra.
Mr. Frederick De C. Faust, special attorney, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Pradtwas on the brief, for the United
States in this case and in No. 86.
The mere fact of the entry by appellant upon these lands
five years after the passage of the act of 1884, created no contractual obligation under said act on the part of the United
States to convey title to the same or to respond in damages for
failure so to do.
Young v. Goldsteen, 97 Fed. Rep. 303, does not sustain appellant's contention. When the appellant occulied these lnids
in 1889 and erected its improvements thereon it did so not only
without authority or license under the act of 1884, but in the
face of an express warning by Congress that nothing in the act
should be construed as a promise. or agreement to put in force
in that district the general land laws of the United States.
* Appellant cannot recover under any provision in the act of
1891. Under that act the President had authority to withdraw
Afognak Island and appellant settled thereon with knowledge
of that fact. The contention of appellant that acts of Congress as to disposal of public lands are contracts does not avail
as the act itself reserved this right to withdraw the island from
sale, and appellant's acts were done with knowledge of that
power after the act, and it was a mere trespasser before that
time. Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, 87; Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187, 194; United States vi Braddock, 50 Fed. Rep.
669; 8 Ops. Atty. Genl. 72; 10 Ops. Atty. Genl. 57; 11 Ops.
Atty. Genl. 462. Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 333 distinguished.
Appellants acquired no vested interest that could not be impaired by a subsequent withdrawal of the land for sale. Rector
v. Ashley, 6 Wall. 151; Campbell v. Wade, 132 U. S. 37.
Appellant's contention that the deposit was in excess of the

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

575

Opinion of the Court.

total price of the-lands, and so constituted payment of the purchase price, is wholly without merit. The deposit was made,
not as payment for the land, but solely'to pay, first, the estimated cost of making the survey, and, second,' the estimated
cost of the clerical work necessary to be done in the office of
the ex officio surveyor-general. This was the only. object of the
deposit, and it was required before the ex officio surveyorgeneral was empowered to even authorize the survey to be
made. Where the amount thus deposited is greater than the
cost of the land, the triplicate certificate may thereafter at the
final stage of the proceedings be surrendered in payment of the
land, but it becomes available for this purpose only after all
the other requirements had been fully complied with under the
act. Rev. Stat. § 2403.
The United States derived no benefit whatever from the erection of these buildings. The appellant company has not attempted to sell or otherwise dispose: of or to remove the buildings from this landMR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is well understood that the mere settlement upon public
lands without taking some steps required by law to initiate the
settler's right thereto, is wholly inoperative as against the 'Uni-.
ted States. Lansdale v. Daniels, 100 U. S: 113, 116; Maddox
v. Burnham, 156 U. S. 544; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Colburn, 164 U. S. 383.
Petitioner, however, bases its right to recover upon certain
statutes which, it is insisted, recognized the right of the petitioner to settle upon this island and make the improvements in
question. The first of these is the act of May 17, 1884, "providing a civil government for Alaska," (23 Stat. 24),- wherein
it was enacted by section 8 "that the Indians or. other persons
in said District shall not be disturbed in the possession of any
lands actually in their use or occupation, or now claimed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

them but the terms under which such persons may acquire title
to such lands is reserved for future legislation by Congress."
It is quite clear that this section simply recognized the rights
of such Indians or other persons as were in possession of lands
at the time of the passage of the act, and reserved to them the
power to acquire title thereto after future legislation had been
enacted by Congress. As the petitioner did not take possession of this land until five years after the act of 1884 was passed,
it was a mere trespasser and not in a position to avail itself of
any contract which might be extorted from the language of the
act in favor of the Indians or other persons who might have
been in possession of the land at the passage of the act.
That this act was intended merely as a preliminary to future
legislation and for the temporary protection of Indians and other
settlers is made more manifest by secti9n 12 of the same act:
"That the Secretary of the Interior shall select two of the
officers to be appointed under this act, who, together with the
Governor, shall constitute a commission to examine into and
report upon the condition of the Indians residing in said Territory, what lands, if any, should be reserved for their use, what
provision shall be made for their education, what rights by
occupation of settlers should be recognized, and all other facts
that may be necessary to enable Congress to determine what
limitations of conditions should be imposed when the land laws
of the United States shall be extended to said District."
So far from Congress intending by this act to invite a settlement upou public lands in Alaska, a contrary inference arises
from a subsequent clause of section 8, that "nothing contained
in this act 'shall be construed to put in force in said District the
general land laws of the United States."
We come now to the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095,
1100, section 12 of which provides:
"SEC. 12. That any citizen of the United States twenty-one
years of age, and any association of such citizens, and any incorporation incorporated under the laws of the United States,
or of any State or Territory of the United States, now author-

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

577

Olinioh of the Court.

ized by law to hold lands in the Territories now or hereafter in
possession of and occupying public lands in Alaska for the purpose of trade or manufactures, may purchase not exceeding one
hundred and sixty acres, to be taken as near as practicable in 'a
square form, of such land at two dollars and fifty cents per
acre.,
Section 13 provides for a survey, a deposit of the cost of such
survey, a report to. the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and an approval by him of the survey, and for the final
issue of the patent. Section 14 of the act is important, and
reads as follows:
"SEC. 14. That none of the provisions of the last two preceding sections of this act shall be so construed as to warrant
the sale of any lands belonging to the United States
to which the natives of Alaska have prior, rights by virtue of
actual occupation, or which shall be selected by the United
States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries on the island of
KadiaX and Afognak for the purpose of establishing fish-culture
stations. . . . And there shall be reserved in all patents
issued under the provisions of the last two preceding sections
the right of the United States to regulate the taking of salmon
and to do all things necessary to protect and prevent the destruction of salmon in all the waters of the laids granted'frequented by salmon."
Even if section 14 had not been enacted, it would not follow
that petitioner, by sections 12 and 13, became entitled to a
patent of the United States by procuring a survey of such lands.
We have had occasion in several cases to hold that, although
the occupation and cultivation of public lands with a view to
preemption confers a preference over others in the purchase of
such lands by the bona fide settler, which will enable him to
protect his possession against other individuals, it does not
confer a vested right as against the United States in the land
so occupied. Such a vested right, under the preemption laws,
is only obtained when the purchase money has been paid, and
receipt from the proper land officer given to the purchaser.
VOL. cxcIx- -'87

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Until this has been done it is competent for Congress to withdraw the land from entry and sale, though this may defeat the
inchoate right of the settler. Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187.
When this payment is made, the other prerequisites having
been complied with, the settler is then entitled. to a certificate
of entry from the local Land Office and ultimately to a patent.
The Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, 87; Campbell v. Wade,
132 U. S. 34, 38; Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S. 491.
The case of Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 314, is much relied
upon by the petitioner, and is carefully criticised and distinguished by Mr. Justice Field in the Yosemite Valley case. In
that case proofs were taken and decided both by the Register
and the Receiver of the Land Office to be sufficient, and the
money was paid by the claimant, and received by the Commissioner; but through misconduct or neglect the Register refused
afterward to permit claimant to enter the section, and it was
held that the right of the preemptor thus acquired could not
be impaired by a selection of land by a subsequent act of Congress. Commenting on this case Mr. Justice Field observed in
the Yosemite Valley case (p. 93) that:
"The whole difficulty in the argument of the defendant's
counsel arises from his confounding the distinction made in all
cases, whenever necessary for their decision, between the acquisition by the settler of a legal right to the land occupied by him
as against the owner, the United States; and the acquisition by
him of a legal right as against other parties to be preferred in
its purchase, when the United States have determined to sell.
It seems to us little less than absurd to say that a settler or any
other person by acquiring a right to be preferred in the purchase of property, provided a sale is made by the owner, thereby
acquires the right to compel the owner to sell, or such an interest in the property as to deprive the owner of the power to control its disposition."
But if there were any doubt regarding the rights of the petitioner in connection with the above case, they are completely
resolved by the language of section 14 of the act, which declares

ROYAL PACKING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 579
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the provisions of the preceding sections shall not be so
construed as to warrant the sales of any lands belonging to the
United States which shall be reserved for public purposes, or
selected by the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries on the islands of Kadiak and Afognak, for the purposes of establishing
a fish-culture station. As the President exercised the rights
thus reserved, and declared the whole island appropriated for
the purpose of establishing a fish-culture station, and warned
all persons to depart therefrom, it is clear that the rights, if
any, previously acquired by the settlement were terminated by
the proclamation. Petitioner gained no additional consideration from the improvements put upon the land, since, if for no
other reason, these were made prior to the act of 1891, when it
was a mere trespasser and occupying the land without a shadow
of title.
Affirmed.

ROYAL PACKING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 86.

Argued November 29, 1905.-Decided December 29, 1905.

Decided on authority of Russian-American Packing Company v. United
States, ante, p. 570.

Mr. Alexander Britton, with whom Mr. Aldis B. Browne was
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. FrederickDe C. Faust, Special Attorney, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Pradtwas on the brief, for the United
States.1
PER CURIAM. This case depends upon a similar state of facts,
involves the same questions of law as those in the preceding case,
and is also
Affirmed.
IThis case was argued simultaneously with, and upon the same briefs as,
Rusasian-American Packing Company v. United States, ante, p. 570.

