OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 64.

Argued November 9, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

A preemptor made an agreement with a party advancing money to pay
one-fourth of the expenses of making final proof to repay such party
a certain portion of the proceeds of sale provided that after obtaining
title he could find a purchaser and sell the land at its proper value.
Held that there was no mortgage, deed of trust, or agreement for specific
lien, but that the agreement was only a promise to pay in case of sale
and could not be enforced against the land, and that it therefore was
not void under ยง 2262, Rev. Stat.

By the admissions in the pleadings in this case, on December 1, 1890, the defendants in error, together with one Edmund
F. Gross, as parties of the first part, entered into a contract
with the plaintiff in error, which stipulated: "That for and in
consideration of the covenants hereinafter mentioned, the
parties of the first part agree to pay one-fourth of all expenses
accruing to the party of the second part in making final proof
to S.W. j of the N.W. , the N. , of the S.W. , and the S.W. of the S.W. I of sec. 14, all in township 58, north of range 19
west, in St. Louis County, Minn., and receiving title thereto,
and the party of the second part agrees and binds himself to
pay to the parties of the first part one hundred dollars in cash
upon the delivery of these presents for locating him on said
land, and he further agrees to give the parties of the first part
one-fourth part of the price and proceeds that may hereafter
be obtained for the sale of said land after he has obtained title
thereto from the United States, deducting the one-fourth expense as above provided, and can find a purchaser for and sell
the same at its proper value."
The parties of the first part fully complied with all the
stipulations of this contract. The plaintiff in error, who at the

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time of the contract was proceeding under the preemption law,
made his final proofs, and on December 19, 1891, received a
patent. On October 18, 1895, he sold the pine timber on the
land and paid to the parties of the first part one-fourth of the
amount received by him therefor. Edmund F. Gross subsequently assigned to Albert F. Gross, one of the defendants in
error, all of his right, title and interest in the contract. On
July 17, 1902, the plaintiff in error sold and conveyed the land
to the Onondaga Iron Company. This action was brought in
the District Court of the county of St. Louis, Minnesota, to
recover one-fourth part of the moneys received by him on said
sale.. Judgment was entered in the District Court in favor
of the plaintiffs, 91 Minnesota, 1; 92 Minnesota, 367, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and thereupon
this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. Roger S.Powell for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas J. Davis and Mr. John E. Davies for defendants in error.
MR. JuSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The case turns upon the construction of the contract and
its alleged conflict with section 2262, Rev. Stat., the pertinent
part of which is,
"Before any person claiming the benefit of this chapter is
allowed to enter lands, he shall make oath before the receiver
or register of the land district in which the land is situated.
. . . That he has not settled upon and improved such land
to sell the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate
it to his own exclusive use; and that he has not, directly or
indirectly, made any agreement or contract, in any way or
manner, with any person whatsoever, by which the title which

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

he might acquire from the Government of the United States
should inure in whole or in part to the benefit of any person
except himself."
The defendants in error insist that the title was to be in no
manner affected by the contract; that it was simply a promise
on the part of the preemptor to pay a certain sum of money,
the amount thereof to be determined by the proceeds of a sale
which he might subsequently make; that he was under no
obligations to make any sale, and if he did not they would have
no claim upon him. On the other hand, the plaintiff in error
invokes the doctrine laid down in Anderson v. Carkins, 135
U. S. 483, that by the terms of the contract the title which he
acquired from the Government was in part to inure, indirectly
at least, to the other parties to the contract. He insists that
the purpose of Congress was to secure to the pre~mptor the
full benefit of the property patented to him; that this purpose
is emphasized by the use of the words "directly or indirectly,"
and that any contract by which third parties were to acquire
a portion of the property or a share in the proceeds of any sale
of the property was really a contract which operated indirectly
to traisfer the title in part to such third party. Under such
construction a contract by which the preemptor should agree
to mortgage the land after acquiring title would be void, because on failure to pay and by foreclosure of the mortgage the
mortgagee might acquire title.
The question is not free from doubt. The contract did not
directly affect the title; that was to be absolutely vested in the
patentee, undisturbed by any claim of the lefendants in error.
He was not bound to do anything by which any portion of the
title should pass to them, directly or indirectly. On the other
hand, its effect was to cast a limitation on the full benefit of
the property, for while the patentee was under no obligation
to sell, he was required to divide the proceeds if and when he
made a sale.
It may be well to examine the decisions of the courts, Federal
as Well as State, and also the rulings of the Land Department.

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
199 U. S.

Court.
Opinion of tile

Before doing so, however, we quote the corresponding provisions of the Federal statutes respecting homesteads. Sees. 2290
2291 and 2296, Rev. Stat. In his application for a homestead
entry the applicant must make. affidavit that his "application
is made for his exclusive use and benefit, and that his entry
is made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation,
and not either directly or indirectly for the use or benefit of
any other person." And before a certificate or patent is issued
he must make affidavit "that no part of such land has been
alienated, except as provided in section 2288." That section
refers to the transfer for church, cemetery or school purposes,
or for the right of way of railroads. The land shall not "in
any event become liable to the satisfaction of any debt con-

tracted prior to the issuing of the patent therefor."
Under these provisions it has been held that a contract to
convey the whole or part of the land made prior to the perfection of his equitable right by one seeking pre6mption or a
homestead is void, and will not be enforced in the courts, Anderson v. Carkins, supra; and, if known to the Department, will
prevent the passing of the legal title. Such has been the uniform ruling of the Land Department, as well as of the courts,
state and Federal.
With respect to a mortgage or deed of trust executed under
like ircumstances, the decisions of the Land Department have
been all to the effect that such mortgage or deed of trust is not
an alienation within the scope of the homestead statute or
forbidden by the preamption law, especially where, in the case
of a pregmption, the mortgage is given to secure money borrowed to complete the purchase of the land. See, in reference
to preemptors, Larson v. Weisbecker, 1 L. D. 422, Opinion of
Secretary-Teller; In re William H. Ray, 6 L. D. 340, Opinion
of Acting Secretary Muldrow; Haling v. Eddy, 9 L. D. 337,
Opinion of Secretary Noble; Murdock v. Ferguson, 13 L. D. 198,
Opinion of Assistant Secretary Chandler. With reference to
a homestead entryman, see Mudgett v. Dubuque & Sioux City
R. R. Co., 8 L. D. 243, Opinion of Secretary Vilas; Dawson v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S

Higgins, 22 L. D. 544, Opinion'of Secretary Smith; Kezar v.
Horde, 27 L. D. 148, Opinion of Secretary Bliss. In addition,
see Lawson v. Reynolds, 28 L. D. 155, in which Secretary Hitchcock held that a "written agreement executedby a homesteader and operating as a mere lease of part of the premises
and the grant of an easement, the use of which would tend to
improve and increase the value of the land as a hoinestead, is
not an alienation of any part of such land, and no bar to the
perfection of the entry." See also Kingston v. Eckman, 22
L. D. 234, in respect to an entry under the timber and stone
act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, as amended by ,the act of
August 4, 1892, 27 Stat. 348, the provisions of which statute
in reference 'to the oath of the applicant are similar to those
in the preemption act.
There has been some division in the courts upon the question. In Brewster v. Madden, 15 Kansas, 249, the Supreme
Court of that State, in an opinion delivered by the writer of
this, held that a mortgage given by a preemptor prior to the
entry of the lands was void, reaching this conclusion largely
on the proposition that at the time the pre~mption act was
passed (1841) mortgages always in form conveyances Were
then regarded by the profession generally as conditional
alienations. To like effect were the early rulings of the Supreme Court of Minnesota, Mc Cue v. Smith, 9 Minnesota, 252;
Woodbury v. Dorman, 15 Minnesota, 338, though these rulings
were subsequently distinctly overruled by the same court.
Jones v. Tainter,.15 Minnesota, 512; Lang v. Morey, 40 Minnesota, 396. Bass v. Bulcer, 6 Montana, 442, deciding the same
way, was also overruled in Norris v. Heald, 12 Montana, 282.
The large majority of state decisions follow these later rulings.
See, in case of preemptions, Wilcox v. John, 21 Colorado, 367;
Christy v. Dana, 34 California, 548; Christy v. Dana, 42 California, 174; Camp v. Grider, 62 California, 20; and in reference
to homesteads, Fuller v. Hunt, 48 Iowa, 163; Dickerson v.
Bridges, 147 Missouri, 235; Weber v. Laidler, 26 Washington,
144; Spiess v. Neuberg, 71 Wisconsin, 279; Kirkaldie v. Larra-

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bee, 31 California, 456; Orr v. Stewart, 67 California, 275; Stark
v. Duvall, 7 Oklahoma, 213. In Orrell v. Bay Manufacturing
Company, 83 Mississippi, 800, the court held that the prohibition of the alienation of public land by parties who have taken
the preliminary steps to acquire the same under the homestead laws, and who have not perfected" their entries, has
reference to an absolute sale of the land, or some part of it,
and in that case the leasing of trees on the land for turpentine
purposes and the sale of trees was held not an alienation within
the meaning of the statute.
Obviously, the trend of the authorities is strongly in favor
of the proposition that a mortgage or deed of trust by one
seeking an entry under the preemption or homestead laws of
the United States, made prior to the perfection of his equitable
right, is valid. These authorities would fully sustain the
decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota in the present
case.
Further, in the case at bar, there was no mortgage, deed of
trust or agreement for a specific lien of any kind. It was
simply a promise to pay money in case of a sale by the patentee,
the amount of the payment to be determined by the sum
received on the sale. It was a promise which in no event could
be enforced against the land. It was only a personal obligation of the patentee. It might never be enforced against him,
and could not be except upon his sale of the land. Of course,
it would not be contended that a mere promise to pay money
by one seeking to acquire title under a homestead was not
binding, and if the only effect of the contract is to measure
the sum which the patentee agrees to pay by that which he
may receive when he sells the land, it cannot be held that a
contract has been made for an alienation of the title in whole
or in part, or that the land was not acquired for the sole use
and benefit of the patentee.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota was right,
and it is
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, McKENNA

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concur MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

and MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

The power to evade the restrictions imposed by Congress
upon the right to acquire land by preemption, which it seems
to me must result from the construction now given to the act
of Congress as applied to the contract in controversy, causes
me to state the reasons for my dissent.
There is no controversy as to the applicable statute, and no
question of fact as to the existence and terms of the contract.
The bald question, therefore, is, Was the contract in conflict
with the requirements of section 2262, Rev. Stat.?
By that section the preimptor, before being allowed to enter
land, was obliged to make oath, as follows:
" '
That he has not settled upon and improved such
land to sell the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it to his own exclusive use; and that he has not,
directly or indirectly, made any agreement or contract, in any
way or manner, with any person whatsoever, by which the
title which he might acquire from the Government of the
United States should inure in whole or in part to the benefit
of any person except himself;
By the contract here in question, which was entered into
prior to the making of the statutory affidavit, the defendants
in error, and one other person-whose interest has since been
acquired by one of the defendants in error-agreed to pay
.one-fourth part of the expenses of the plaintiff in error, the
proposed pre~mirptor, to be incurred by him in perfecting his
entry, he, on the other hand, agreeing to pay one hundred
dollars in cash "for locating him on said land," and binding
himself to give to the other parties to the agreement "onefourth part of the price and proceeds that may hereafter be
obtained for the sale of said land after he has obtained title
thereto from the United States, deducting the one-fourth
expense as above provided, and can find a purchaser for and
sell the same at its proper value."

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
199 U. S.

WHITE, MCKENNA and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

My mind cannot perceive how this contract can be held
valid, testing its provisions by the statutory prohibitions, forit is settled that the requirement of specific statements in the
affidavit implies a prohibition. against the doing of that which
the preemptor must swear in the affidavit that he had not
done.
Let me consider what the statute thus requires the preemptor to swear, in connection with the contract, in order to
test the conflict between them. The preemptor must swear
"that he has not settled upon and improved such land to sell
the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it
to his own exclusive use." Could this statement have been
truthfully made in view of the agreement by which the preemptor bound himself after his purchase, if he sold the land,
to pay to the other parties to the contract one-fourth part of
the purchase price? Further, the statute requires the preemptor to swear "that he has not,, directly or indirectly, made
any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with any

person whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire
from the Government of the United States should inure in
whole or in part to the benefit of any person except himself."
Was the affidavit made by the pre mptor in this case true
when, at the time it was made, he had executed a contract
or agreement by which, when the property was sold, onefourth of the price should go to the benefit of the other parties
to this contract? Concede that technically the contract did
not purport to be an agreement on the part of the preimptor

to convey the legal title to one-fourth part of the land to the
other parties to the agreement, can it in reason be said that
the agreement did not directly or indirectly provide that the
title when acquired should inure in whole or in part to the
benefit of other contracting parties? To my mind the statute
seems so plain and the terms of the contract to be so clearly
in violation of its provisions that there can reasonably be no
room for construction.
But it is said the statute simply prohibits agreements on

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, McKENNA

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

the part of the preemptor, by which the title which he might
acquire would inure in whole or in part to the benefit of any
other person than himself; therefore, to constitute a violation
of the statute, it must be found that the contract bound the
preemptor, after he had acquired the land, to convey a onefourth interest in the title to the land. But this disregards
the fact that the statute expressly forbids the doing of the
prohibited thing, either "directly or indirectly," and prohibits "any agreement or contract," in any way or manner
whatsoever, by which the title to be derived from the Government of the United States should inure, in whole or in part,
to the benefit of any person except the preemptor. It is clear,
to my mind, that the words "directly or indirectly and in any
manner" were obviously intended to embrace evasions and
subterfuges by which the policy of the statute might be frustrated-that is, the prohibition against giving to another person than the pre~mptor the benefit, in whole or in part, of the
results of acquiring the land from the United States.
In Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483, dealing with an
affidavit of a homesteader, where the requirements were less
stringent than exacted in preemption cases, it was decided
that the existence of an agreement to convey after patent a
part of the land to another was void as against public policy.
To me that case is decisive of this. It is said, however, there
the obligation was to convey the land, whilst here there was
no obligation on the part of the preemptor to convey or to
sell the land after he acquired it, but only an obligation if he
did sell to pay the one-fourth of the proceeds. But it cannot
be meant by this to say that there was no contract, because
the agreement was so purely potestative on :the part of the
preemptor as not to imply an obligation, since the contract
is enforced by the decree now rendered. Suppose, however,
that the contract could be divided and held to imply an obligation to pay over to another a portion of the purchase price,
after the obtaining of a patent, only in case the pre~mptor
chose to sell, does such construction relieve the contract from

HAFEMANN v. GROSS.
199 U. S.

WHITE, MCKENNA

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

the prohibitions of the statute? It seems to me not, because
to so hold would simply be to permit mere form and not substance to control.

In Pollocc v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,

157 U. S. 429, the question was whether Congress could, in
levying an income tax, include as part of the taxable income
revenues derived from real estate. It was held that it could
not be done, because substance was to control, and that to include rents in the income taxed was to impose a direct burden
on the owner of the real estate. After quoting from Co. Lit.
45, the declaration "For what is the land but the profits
thereof," and a passage in Jarman on Wills, stating that a
devise of the rents and profits or of the income of lands passes
the land itself, both at lay and in equity, the court said (p. 581):
"The real question is, is there any basis upon which to rest
the contention that real estate belongs to one of the two great
classes of taxes, and the rent or income which is the incident
of its ownership belongs to the other? We are unable to perceive any ground for the alleged distinction. An annual tax
upon the annual value or annual user of real estate appears
to us the same in substance as an annual tax on the real estate, which would be paid out of the rent or income."
This being the rule settled by this court, simply as to the
right to receive the fruits of real estate, I do not perceive why,
in view of the. sweeping prohibitions of the act of Congress,
the existence of a continued obligation to pay over the price
of real estate to another person when sold, does not amount
to an agreement giving to such person, at least indirectly, an
interest in the land itself.
Having said that, in my opinion, there was no ambiguity
in the statute as applied to the contract, it seems to me unnecessary to consider the decided cases. But I refer briefly
to them. True it is that there are rulings of state coufts and
of the Land Department, holding that an agreement to execute a mortgage upon prempted land is not within the prohibition of the statute. When the opinions so holding are
analyzed it will be seen that they proceed upon the theory

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
WHITE, McKENNA

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

that the spirit of the statute does not embrace transactions

of that character. For the purposes of this case, however, it
does not seem to me essential to say whether or not such rulings are correct, as an agreement to mortgage to repay a given
sum advanced, to enable the preemptor to improve the land,
might well be held not to be within the spirit of the prohibitions of the statute, and yet such rulings would not be
controlling as to an agreement like the one here in question,
especially if the contract is construed as amounting to a perpetual obligation to transfer to a third person upon a sale of
the land a given portion of the price. Such a contract at once
puts the person in whose favor it is made in the attitude, not
of a lender entitled to receive back his loan with simple interest, but in the position of a speculator who is to benefit
from the enhancement in value of the land which may arise
in the future, without reference to the amount of any expenditure by him made, a character of transaction which it
was the express purpose of the act of Congress to forbid.
Myers v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291, 295. And from another point
of view such a transaction puts the preemptor making it in a
position where his piain interest is not to improve and develop
the land to its full capacity, because the labor expended for
that purpose would ultimately inure in case of a sale of the
land to the benefit of a third person.
Deeming that the contract in question was within the
prohibitions of the act of Congress and void as against public
policy, I do not think the court should lend its aid to its enforcement, and I therefore dissent, and am authorized to state
that MR. JUST.ICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concur
therein.

