212

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement nf the Case.

199 U. S.

MARVIN v. TROUT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
Nos. 19, 20.

Argued October 24, 25, 1905.-Decided tIovember 13, 1905.

A certificate of the presiding judge of the state court made after the decision
to the effect that a Federal question was considered and decided, cannot
confer jurisdiction on this court where the record does not otherwise show
it to exist.
When the court makes such a certificate and orders it to be attached to and
form part of the record itself, it may be sufficient to show that Federal
questions were bfore the state court decjded by it so that this court may
pass upon those questions which are specified, but the statement that
the plaintiff in error made a general contention that the statute involved
and proceedings thereunder were an invasion of his private rights in violation of the Constitution is too vague to.raise any Federal question.
The suppression of gambling is within the police power of the State, and it
may make a judgment against those winning the money a lien upon property owned by another and in which the gainbling is conducted with the
knowledge and consent of the owner, and such a statute does not deprive the owner of his property without due process of law.
Such a statute does not deprive the owner of the property upon which the
judgment is made a lien of his property without due process of law because it does not provide for trial by jury in the action to enforce the lien.
The State can give the whole or any part of the amount recoverable under
such a statute to the informer.

plaintiff in error in these cases seeks to review the judgments of the Supreme Court of Ohio, affirming judgments
tecovered against him by the defendant in error in one of the
Circuit Courts of Ohio. The two cases involve the same question, which relates to the validity of the sections of the statute
of the State of Ohio in regard to gambling, known as sections 4270, 4273 and 4275 of the Revised Statutes of that
State. The sections are set forth in the margin. 1
THE

I SEc. 4270. If any person, by playing at any game, or by means of any

bet or wager, loses to any other person any sum of money or other ,thing
of value, and pays or delivers the same, or any part thereof, to the winner,
the person who so loses and pays, or delivers may, at any time within six

months next after such loss and payment or delivery, sue for and recover

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The defendant in error commenced these actions in the
Court of Common Pleas of Hancock County, under section 4275,
for the purpose of making certain judgments, recovered by her
against other parties, a lien on the property of the plaintiff in
error to the extenit of those judgments. The defendant demurred to the petition in each case. One of the grounds of
demurrer was that the petition showed a former judgment in
favor of defendant for the same cause of actiQn. The demurrers
were sustained, and judgments to that effect were affirmed on
error by the Circuit Court, but the Supreme Court reversed
them and remanded the cases for further proceedings. 62
Ohio St. 132. The defendant then answered, and the cases
went to trial in the Common Pleas, where plaintiff recovered
judgments in her favor. On appeal in each case, to the Circuit Court of Hancock County, a trial was had de novo, which
resulted in judgments in favor of plaintiff, 24 Ohio Circuit
Court Rep. 333, which were affirmed, without any opinion, by
the Supreme Court of Ohio.

70 Ohio St. 437.

The defendant

below has brought the cases here by writs of error.
The following are-the facts upon which the questions arise:
the money or thing of value so lost, and paid or delivered, or any part
thereof, from the winner thereof, with costs of suit, by civil action founded
on this chapter, before any court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 4273. If the person losing such money or thing of value as provided
in section forty-two hundred and seventy does not, within the time therein
specified, without collusion or deceit, sue, and with effect prosecute, for the
money or thing of value so lost and paid or delivered, any person may sue
for and recover the same with costs of suit, against any winner as aforesaid,
for the use of the person, prosecuting the same.
SEc. 4275. The property, both real and personal, of a defendant, against
whom a judgment is rendered under this chapter, either for fines, costs or
to recover money, or other thing of value, lost or paid, shall be liable therefor, without exemption, and such judgment shall be a lien thereon until
paid; if the owner of the building in which the money was lost knowingly
permits it to be used for gaming purposes, such building and the real estate
upon which it stands shall be liable therefor in the same manner; and the
guardian or trustee of a minor, insane person or idiot, who permits any
property under his charge to be used for gaming purposes, and the same
becomes liable on account thereof, shall be liable to his ward for the amount
thereof.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

At the. March Term, 1895, of the Court of Common Plas for
Hancock County, the defendant'in error brought her action
under the above section 4273, to recover from the defendants
in that suit, who were named Clifford, Gassman and Marvin
(the last named being this plaintiff in error), moneys alleged
to have been lost by the plaintiff's husband in gambling (and
won by them), between the twentieth day of March, 1893, and
the nineteenth day of March, 1894. She subsequently brought
another action at the September Term, 1896, in the same Court
of Common Pleas, against the same parties, to recover moneys
alleged to have been so lost and won between March 19 and
June 19, 1894. In the first action she recovered $3,473 and
costs against all three defendants, and in the second she recovered $1,300 and costs against the same defendants. Those
judgments were subsequently reversed on error/ by the Circuit Court, as to Marvin, and affirmed as to the other defendants.
The plaintiff below then commenced these actions in the
Court of Common Pleas of Hancock County against the defendant Marvin as the owner of the premises in which the
gambling was carried on, to make the judgments theretofore
obtained by her against Clifford and Gassman a lien upon the
building of which Marvin,. the defendant, was the owner, on
the ground that he knowingly permitted the same to be used
by them for gambling purposes. The petition in each case
stated in substance the ownership by defendant Marvin of the
property where the gambling was carried on; that Clifford and
Gassman carried on gambling there in violation of law; that
the defendant knowingly permitted his building to be so used.
The petition then alleged the recovery of a judgment by plaintiff against the defendants Clifford, Gassman and Marvin, for
the amount stated in the judgment; that the action was brought
pursuant to section 4273 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, to
recover from the defendants money staked and betted by
plaintiff's husband, and the judgment recovered was for the
amount found by the court to have been staked and betted

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by plaintiff's husband and won by the defendants; that the
judgment was, on error, reversed as to Marvin, but affirmed
as to the other defendants, and that the judgment remained
in full force as to them and was wholly unpaid; that the said
games of chance, "on which said money was staked and betted
and lost" by plaintiff's husband, to the defendants Clifford
and Gassman, were played at the rooms in defendant Marvin's
building, and while defendant knowingly permitted the same
to be used by them for su~h purpose. The prayer was to
have the judgment declared a lien on the, building, and that
it be sold, etc.
The defendant in his answer in each case admitted the
fi.he premises at the times alleged in the petition,
ownership
and also the recovery of the judgment as stated in the petition,
and that such judgment as to the defendant Marvin was reversed, and the defendant denied the other allegations in the
petition. He subsequently filed an amended answer setting
up the Ohio statute of limitations. The cases were tried sub-,
stantially as one case in the Common Pleas and resulted in
judgments in favor of the plaintiff. Upon appeal to the Circuit
Court a retrial of the case was had. 24 Ohio Circuit Court Rep.,
supra. On that trial it was admitted that at the times mentioned in the petition the premises described therein were used
for gambling purposes by Clifford and Gassman, "that they
are the same premises in which the money described in judgment or represented by the judgments set up in the petition,
are claimed to have been lost, but not admitting that plaintiff's husband, in fact, gambled with Clifford and Gassman
between March 19, 1893, and June 20, 1894, it is admitted for
the purposes of this action, that if he did, such gambling was
done in the building and upon the premises of the defendant
described in the petition." It was also conceded' that the
judgments were rendered against Clifford and Gassman, and
that they occupied no other premises, and conducted no
gambling during the periods specified in the petition except
upon the premises described in the petition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

In the course of the trial the judgments against Clifford and
Gassman were offered and received in evidence, under a general objection on the part of the defendant Marvin.
The plaintiff also proved, outside the record of the Clifford
and Gassman judgments, by a witness called by her, the fact
of the gambling and the amount lost and the place where it
was lost. The witness having stated that he had lost the
money to the full amount represented by the judgments, in
gambling, was asked to state whether he had lost it at Clifford
and Gassman's. This question was objected to at the very
moment that the witness answered that he had, the objection
being as follows: "Counsel on behalf of defendant Marvin objected to the above answer and moved the court to strike out
so much of the answer as relates to the fact and the extent
of the loss, on the ground that it is not alleged in the petition
and is not an issue of fact in the case. Which motion the court
overruled, to which ruling of the court the defendant then and
there excepted."
The witness then again stated, under this objection, that
the moneys were lost at gaming in this building and were
represented by these judgments, and that the moneys were
lost as stated in the petition and at Clifford and Gassman's.
There was also evidence given on the trial tending to prove
that the premises were not only used by Clifford and Gassman
for gambling purposes during the times mentioned in the petition, but that such user was with the knowledge of the defendant Marvin, and that he knowingly permitted the same.
Upon the trial the defendant gave no evidence.
The Circuit Court, in giving judgment for the plaintiff, found
these facts, and stated, 24 Ohio Circuit Court Rep., supra,,that
in an action under section 4275, to subject the premises where
the gaming was carried on and the money lost, to the payment
of a judgment recovered against the winner, such judgment,
when not impeached for fraud or collusion, was conclusive that
the moneys lost and winnings secured, which caused the
plaintiff's injury, were lost in gaming, and were won by the

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

defendant in the judgment; that the same were won and lost
in violation of law, and that the plaintiff in consequence thereof
sustained damages to the amount of the judgment; that such
judgments as to these facts are not open to dispute by the
owner of the premises, in an action against him under that
section.
The defendant Marvin then brought the cases by writs of
error to the Supreme Court of the State for review, where
they were affirmed, without any opinion, but some weeks
after the mandate to the court below had been issued from
the Supreme Court, that court, on motion of the plaintiff
in error, ordered what is termed a "journal entry" to be made,
as follows:
"Journal Entry.
"Whereupon, on motion of said plaintiff in error, William
Marvin, the court order it to be certified and made part of the
record of this case and of the judgment of affirmance heretofore entered herein, that this action is founded upon sections
forty-two hundred and seventy-three (4273) and fortytwo
hundred and seventy-five (4275) of the Revised Statutes of
Ohio on the subject of gaming.
"It is further certified that said plaintiff in error set up in
his petition in error, asking the reversal of the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Hancock County, Ohio, that said sections
of said statutes and the proceedings of said Circuit Court had
thereunder were repugnant to section one, article fourteen,
of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
and repugnant to article one, section nine, and article one,
section ten, and section three of article three of said United
States Constitution. Also that said sections of said statutes
and the proceedings had thereunder were claimed and set up
by plaintiff in error to be an invasion of his private right of
property in violation of said Constitution and amendments.
That said judgment of affirmance was in favor of the validity
of said statutes and of said proceedings had thereunder, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S..

that they were not repugnant to any of the provisions of said
Qonstitution or of the amendments thereto."'
Mr. George F. Pendleton for plaintiff in error:
We concede that the decisions of the Supreme Court..of
Ohio both under the gaming laws above cited, and under the
liquor laws so far as they have touched the points at issue
hete, are against -us on the question of the validity of the proceedings and of the statutes. The question whether the Fourteenth Amendment is violated has seldom been before the
Supreme Court of Ohio, and we claim it has not been carefully
conisidered in any gaming or liquor case. Binder v. Finkbone,.25 Ohio St. 103; Mullen v. Peck, 49 Ohio St. 447; Goodall
v. Brewing Co., 56-Ohio St. 257; Goodman v. Hailes, 59 Ohio
St. 342; Hoss v. Layton, 3 Ohio St. 353; Cooper v. Rowley, 29
Ohio St. 547; Bellinger v. Griffith, 23 Ohio St. 619.
To declare a judgment against one man a lien-on another's
real estate seems to us, at least, a very dangerous innovation
in the law.
-The right of trial by. jury is secured to the citizens by the
constitution and statutes of Ohio. Ohio Const. 1851, Art. 1,
§ 5; Rev. Stat., of Ohio, .§3130.
The police power vested in the State of Ohio as a sovereign
State to safeguard the morals of the people, and to discourage
the vice of gambling must be exercised within the limitations
of the Constitution, Federal and state. And that to so shape
proceedings as to work a forfeiture or virtual confiscation of a
man's real estate for the private benefit of a third person, or
any third person who suffered no personal loss from the gamblihg complained of is not a valid exercise of such police power.
It violates the personal right of property of the individual,
and invades his constitutional right of property, and is tantamount to the taking of it away from him without due process
of law. Every exercise of the police power of the State, to be
valid, must be reasonable. Railroad Company v. Keith, 67
Ohio St. 279, 292, and cases cited on p. 283; State v. Marble,

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

72 Ohio St. 21, 33; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165' U. S.578, 591; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.
319; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Plessy v. Ferguson, 1ag
U. S. 537, 550; Wisconsin, M. & P. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson. 179
U. S.287, 301; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 398; Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Connelly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540, 558; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.223;
Freund on Police Powers, §63.
Defendant in error is the wife of the gambler who lost the
money at the gambling, but the right of action by said statute
is not given to her as wife of the loser, for she would have had
the same statutory right to recover if she had been the, wife of
any other gambler. Section 4273 gives the right to sue after
six months to "any person."
A volunteer, a third party to the gambling, and who lost
nothing by it cannot lawfully recover from the winning gambler a judgment for the alleged losses of the losing gambler
who refuses to prosecute. It would amount to taking priVate
property of one person and giving it to another and this cannot be done. Railroad Company v. iKeith, 67 Ohio St. 279,
292; Bowman v. Middleton, 1 Bay, 250; Cooley Const. Lim.,
6th ed., 198; Taylor v. Commissioners, 23 Ohio St. 22; 84.
A judgment in favor of such third party and against such
gambler' cannot lawfully operate as a statutory lien to bind
the property of the owner of the real estate upon which the
gambling was done, such owner being neither a party to the
gambling nor to the judgment. Binder v. Finkbone, 25 Ohio
St. is clearly wrong and should not be followed.
A judgment in favor of such third party cannot lawfully be
held to conclude the owner of the real estate, who is not a
party thereto.
One rule of evidence should not be meted out to the winning
gambler who actually pocketed the winnings, if any, and a
more strenuous and illiberal rule applied to take the property
of the owner from him because of his alleged knowledge and
consent to have the gambling done in his rooms.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

The petitions against plaintiff in error set forth no causes of
action, and the demurrers thereto sustained by the lower
courts ought also to have been sustained by the Supreme Court
of Ohio.
The making of this judgment conclusive violated plaintiff
in error's right of property under the constitutions. 2 Tiedeman, State and Federal Control, § 178, p. 871 and authorities
cited.
Taking of the property from the owner as a punishment for
allowing an illegal business, to be conducted in some of' the
rooms, and giving it as a gratuity to another person, can find
no justification within the protection to the owner, of his private property, guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth Amendment. Cooley Const. Lim., 6th ed., pp. 208, 707; United
States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; United States v. Cruikshank, 92
U. S.214; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Edson v. Crangle,
62 Ohio St; 49.
No authority justifies a law, and the proceedings thereunder,
that virtually confiscates a man's estate and gives the proceeds
to a third person, under the circumstances of these cases.
2 Tiedeman, State and Federal Control, § 152, p. 763; Welch
v. Stowell, 2 Dougl. (Mich.) 332; State v. Saunders, 66 N. H. 39.
Mr. Jo7n Poe for defendant in error:
As to jurisdiction.
This court would not assume jurisdiction because of the
complaint that the holding of the state courts deprive plaintiff in error of any rights guaranteed to him by the Fifth, Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth or Ninth Amendments referred to, for these
were not intended to limit the powers of the States in respect
to their own people but to operate on the national government
only. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 132, 166, and cases
there cited.
Second. The claim here sought to be made is that the
statutes of Ohio referred to are repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, but as we have seen no such claim was

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

set up or made in the trial courts of Ohio, it follows that this
court would have no jurisdiction to entertain these cases for
that reason. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 181; Brooks v)'Missouri, 124 U. S. 394; French v. Hopkins, 124 U. S. 524; Powell
v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, 439; Morrison v. Watson,
154 U. S. 111; Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535; Sayward v: Denny,
158 U. S. 180; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 146, 160.
As to ex post facto law: this law has practically been in force
since 1824. Q. & C. Stat. 664; 3 Curwen, 2483; 63 0. L. 163;
73 0. L. 250. For distinction between ex post facto and retroactive law, see Sturgis v. Carter,114 U. S. 511, 519; Society
v. Wheeler, 2 Gall. 139; Rairden v. Holden, 15 Ohio St. 207.
The statute is in the nature of a police regulation and it is
within the power of the State to make and enforce such a r.egulation. Binder v. Finkbone, 25 Ohio St. 103; Code of Iowa
Liquor Sales, § 2422; Polk County v. Hierb, 37 Iowa, 361;
Lafrance v. Krayer, 42 Iowa, 147; Berthoff v. O'Riley, 74 N. Y.
509; Hurd's Rev. Stat., Illinois, §§ 127, 132; Illinois Dram
Shop Act, 1 St. and Cur. 973; Bell v. Cassem, 158 Illinois, 45;
Booth v. Illinois, 186 Illinois, 43; S. C. 184 U. S. 425.
The liability to seizure attaches to the thing. If a man uses
his property for the purposes of the violation of the laws, he
loses his right to have it at all. Dobbins v. Distillery, 96 U. S.
395, 400; The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1; United States v. "Brig
Malek Adhel, 2 How. 40; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 114; Schooner
Ann, 9 Cranch, 289; The Little Charles, Brockenbrough's Rep.;
United States v. Distillery, 2 Abbott, 192; Rev. Stat., U. S.,
§§ 2802, 2867.
Under § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment, the privileges
and immunities not to be infringed are those of citizens of the
United States, for nothing is said there of those belonging to
citizens of the States. This is a remarkable omission if it was
intended thereby to protect him against the legislation of his
own State. Slaughter House Case, 16 Wall. 36, 37.
The right to a jury trial did not exist in this case; but if it
did the right has been waived. No demand was made for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. So

trial; no objection was made to the trial court proceeding to
try it; and it is too late on error in the Supreme Court of the
State for the first time to complain that there should have
been a jury trial. Elithorpe v. Buck, 17 Ohio St. 72; Adler v.
Whitbeck, 44 Ohio St. 568; Cockran's Heirs v. Loring, 17 Ohio
409, 425; Coal & Oil Co. v. Verner, 22 Ohio St. 372; Culver v.
Rodgers, 33 Ohio St. 637; Bonewitz v. Bonewitz, 50 Ohio St. 373.
This is not a case for a jury. No judgment for money is
sought. It is not an action to recover money but to enforce
a statutory lien. -Binder v. Finkbone, supra; Trout v. Marvin,
62 Ohio St., 132.
MR. JUsTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error seeks to reverse the judgments herein,
based on the gaming.;.statute of Ohio, because, as he insists,
that statute is unconstitutional n several different grounds:
First because it is (as he avers) an unconstitutional extension
of the police power of the State, resulting in the taking of the
property of the plaintiff in error for the benefit of the defendant in error, or, in other words, it results in the taking of the
property of the plaintiff in error without his consent for a
private purpose, and that it is an invasion of his private right
of property, in violation of the Federal Constitution; second, because the statute denies or does not provide for, an exercise of
the right of trial by jury, and, therefore, a judgment founded
upon it is obtained without due process of law; third, because
the judgment first obtained against the persons who actually
won the money is made conclusive evidence against the plaintiff in error, of the amount of money thus lost, although he
was neither a party nor privy to that judgment, as it was
reversed as to him, and he was thereupon dismissed from the
case.
A reference to the record does not show that any one of
these questions was raised, either by the pleadings or on the
trial of the case. The only evidence that any question was

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

raised in the Supreme Court, assailing the validity of the
statute as a violation of any provision of the Federal Constitution, consists-of a statement in the petition in error to
the Supreme Court, that the st.atute was a violation of certain
sections of the Federal Constitution, and in the certificate of
thie Supreme' Court of Ohio, which that court ordered to be
made a part of the record, and which is above set forth. It
is a certificate from the court as distinguished from one by
an individual judge.
The petition in error does not show that any question involving the Federal Constitution was actually argued or brought
to the attention of the Supreme Court. It is well settled, in this
court, that acertificate from a presiding judge of the state court,
made after the decision of the case in that court, to the effect
that a Federal question was considered and decided by the
court adversely to the plaintiff in error, cannot confer jurisdiction on this court, where the record does not otherwise show
it to exist; that the effect of such a certificate is to make more
certain and specific what is too general and indefinite in the
record itself, but it is incompetent to originate the Federal
questiom Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163 U. S. 63;
•Henkel v. Cincinnati, 177 U. S. 170; Fullerton v. Texas, 196
U. S. 192. As the certificate in the case at bar was made by
the court, and was ordered by it to be attached to and form
part of the record itself, it is perhaps sufficient to show that
some questions of a Federal nature were before that court and
decided by it. It is true the certificate is quite loose -in its
statement as to what was the nature or character of these
questions. It is certified that the plaintiff in error contended
that the sections of the statute and the proceedings of the
Circuit Court had thereunder were repugnant to those sections
of the Constitution of the United States. referred to in the
certificate. By reference to them it will be seen that section 1,
Article 14, contains several provisions quite distinct from,
and having no relation to, each other, and the certificate does
not state which one of the provisions of that section was claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Oninion of the Court.

199 U. S.

to have been violated by the statute in question. Section 9 of
Article 1 has itself seven subdivisions, and it would be difficult even to guess which particular provision the plaintiff in
error claimed was violated by the statute. Section 10 of the
same Article is also referred to as having been violated by the
statute; also Article 3, section 3, which relates to the trial of
all crimes by jury. Then there is stated to have been made
by the plaintiff in error a general contention that the statute
and proceedings thereunder were an invasion of his private
right of property in violation of the Federal Constitution and
its amendments.
A more general statement of the presentation of the Federal
questions to a state court could scarcely be made. It is almost
impossible to determine from such certificate what Federal
question was decided in the case. We have heretofore held
that an objection very similar to this raised no Federal question. Clarke v. McDade, 165 U. S. 168.
Assuming, however, that by reference to the first section
of the Fourteenth Amendment, the question of the illegal
extension of the police power of the State may be raised, under
the claim that a judgment founded upon the statute 'would
permit the taking of the property of the plaintiff in error without due process of law, we are of opinion that the objection is
without merit. For a great many years past gambling has
been very generally in this country regarded as a vice to be
prevented and suppressed in the interest of the public morals
-and the public welfare. The power of the State to enact laws
to suppress gambling cannot be doubted, and, as a means to
that end, we have no doubt of its power to provide that the
owner of the building in which gambling is conducted, who
knowingly looks on and permits such gambling, can be made
liable in his property which is thus used, to pay a judgment
against those who won the money, as is provided ift the statute
in question. That statute, or one somewhat similar to it
(withfut the conclusive feature of the judgment as evidence
,in the action to charge the property of the owner of the build-

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing where the gambling was carried on), has been in force in
Ohio ever since, at least, 1831, and similar legislation is found
upon that-subject or upon that of the regulation of the sale of
liquor, in most of the States of the Union. The plain object
of this legislation is to discourage, and, if possible, prevent
gambling. The liability of the owner of the building to make
good the loss sustained, under the circumstances set forth in
the statute, was clearly part of the means resorted to by the
legislature for the purpose of suppressing the evil in the interest of the public morals and welfare. We are aware of no
provision in the Federal Constitution which prevents this kind
of legislation in a State for such a purpose. To say that it
must be limited to a provision allowing a recovery of the money
by the one who lost it, would be in effect to hold invalid all
legislation providing for proceedings in the nature of qui tam
actions., Statutes providing for actions by a common informer,
who himself had no interest whatever in the controversy other
than that given by statute, have been in existence for hundreds
of years in England, and in this country ever since the foundation of our Government. The right to recover the penalty or
forfeiture granted by statute is frequently given to the first
common informer who brings the action, although he has no
interest in the matter whatever except as such informer. Bl.
Com. vol. 3, chap. 9, m. p. 161; and vol. 2, chap. 29, m. p. 437; 2
Hawk. P. C., 8th ed., 368; 1 Selwyn, Law of N. P. 621; Dozier
v. Williams, 47 Mississippi, 605; Beadleston v. Sprague (A. D..
1810), 6 Johns. 101; Caswell v. Allen, 10 Johns. 118; Parker v.
Colcord (A. D. 1819), 2 N. H. 36; Pike v. Madbury (A. D. 1841),
12 N. H. 262; Commonwealth v. Churchill (A. D. 1809), 5 Massachusetts, 174.
Legislation giving an interest in the forfeiture to a common
informer has been frequent in Congressional legislation relating to revenue cases. It is referred to in the act of March 3,
1797, 1 Stat. 506, and cases arising under its provisions are
to be found in 10 Wheat. 246, United States v. Morris, and
6 Pet. 404, McLane v. United States.
VOL. oxcix-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

And in 1861, in 12 Stat. 292, 296, sec. 11, one moiety of the
forfeiture is given "to him who shall first sue for the same."
There can be no doubt of the right of the Government to
give the whole instead of a moiety of the forfeiture to the
informer..
Second. The contention on the part of the plaintiff in error,
that the statute violates the Federal Constitution, because it
does not provide for or permit trial by jury, is equally without merit. Maxwell v. Dow, i76 U. S. 581.
Third. The contention that the statute violates the first
section of the Fourteenth Amendment, because under it, as is
averred, a judgment against those who won the money at
gambling, when not impeached for fraud or collusion, is conclusive evidence. of the amount lost in an action against the
owner of the property where the money was lost, who was
neither party nor privy to such judgment, cannot in the state
of this record be here raised. Upon the trial the defendant in
error offered the judgment against Clifford and Gassman in
evidence, and it vas received under a general objection made
by the plaintiff in error. By reference to the record it appears
that the plaintiff in error on the trial conceded that the judgment was rendered against- Clifford and Gassman. The formal
putting in evidence of a judgment, the existence of which was
conceded, can raise no question whatever. At a subsequent
stage of the trial oral evidence was given outside of the record
of the judgments (under objection by the plaintiff in error
that there was no such issue in the case), of the amount of
money that was in fact lost at play, and that it was represented
by and was as large as the amount stated in the judgment
offered in evidence.
One of the grounds of objection to the evidence, made by
the 'plaintiff in error, was that neither the fact nor the extent
of the loss was alleged in the petition or was an issue in the
case. The petition in, substance contained both averments
and the answer denied them. There was such an issue, although defendant in his objection overlooked it. The ob-

MARVIN v. TROUT.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jection was -overruled and the evidence given. It surely cannot now be pretended that the plaintiff in error was thereby
harmed. Can he now be heard to say that the statute is void
because of the conclusive character which he avers is therein
given to the judgment, when there was proof outside the
record (given against his own objection and averment that
the fact was not in issue) showing the amount of money lost?
If the statute do mean that such prior judgment is conclusive,
what legal interest has the plaintiff in error in the question
when there is other evidence in his case, although given against
his objection, that there was no issue on that fact? The whole
statute is not void, even if it mean that the judgment is conclusive, and when other evidence is given the (alleged) invalid
provision is eliminated in such case, and the party who insists
there is no issue as to loss, not being harmed, cannot raise the
question: Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 311; Clark
v. Kansas City, 176 U. S. 114, 118. The statement of the
Circuit Court as to the conclusive character of a judgment was,
as applied to the plaintiff in error, a mere abstraction. It does
not appear even by the certificate of the Supreme Court that
the plaintiff in error claimed the protection of the first section
of the Fourteenth Amendment, on the ground of the alleged
erroneous decision of the court below on this question, nor
does it appear that the Supreme Court itself gave any opinion
upon br determined it. These facts must appear in the record.
Dewey v., Des Moines, 173 U. S.193, 197; Chapin v. Fye, 17.9
U. S.127. The certificate that the plaintiff in error claimed
the protection of that section is fully satisfied by treating it
as raising the question of the invalidity of the statute on the
ground of an illegaf extension of the police power, and also
because it did not permit a trial by jury, and thereby, as contended, denying due process of law. These grounds we have
already considered. We cannot and ought not to assume that
the Supreme Court, in this state of the record, took cognizance
of the question of the conclusiveness of the judgment, and the
certificate does not show that the court did so.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

In what has been said we do not wish it to be understood
that this court intimates an opinion upon the alleged invalidity
of the statute upon the above ground. We simply say that
the plaintiff in error cannot raise that question.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Ohio are
Affirmed.

RANKIN v. BARTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 125.

Submitted October 17, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905.

A national bank is an instrumentality of the United States, the administration. whereof is vested in the Comptroller of the Currency, who, in case of
insolvency, appoints the receiver and directs his acts. The liability for
assessment on the stock dates from the order of the Comptroller who decides when it is necessary to institute proceedings therefor, and his determination is conclusive. This power is derived from a statute of the United
States and cannot be controlled or limited by state statutes.
Where the state court has held th. a suit to collect assessment by the receiver of a national bank under directions of the Comptroller of the Currency is barred by a state statute of limitations, a Federal question is involved and the writ of error will not be dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. Whiteside for plaintiff in error, cited Kennedy v.
Gibson, 8 Wall. 498;, Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673; United States
v. Knox, 102 U. S. 422; Germanica National Bank v. Case, 131
U. S. Appendix, 144; Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. S. 684; Aldrich v. Yates, 95 Fed. Rep. 78; Aldrich v. Campbell, 97 Fed.
Rep. 663; Deweese v. Smith, 97 Fed. Rep. 309; Studebaker v.
Perry, 102 Fed. Rep. 947; Aldrich v. Skinner, 98 Fed. Rep. 375.
Mr. George A. Vandeveer and Mr. F. L. M'Jartin for defendant in error:
There is no Federal statute of limitations applicable to this

