OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the, Case.

199 U. S.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel.
BROOKLYN CITY RAILROAD COMPANY v. NEW
YORK STATE BOARD OF TAX COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT 'OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 79.

Argued April 17, 18, 19, 1905.-Decided May 29, 1905.

A license fee is a charge for the privilege of carrying on a business or occu
pation and is not the equivalent or in lieu of a property tax, and a provithe grant of a franchise for a license fee does not, in the absence
sion in.
of express stipulations of exemption, relieve the property employed in
the business from the ordinary burdens of property taxation and amount
to a contract of exemption from further taxation, within the'impairment
of contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
The legislation challenged in this case, being in terms an amendment of
the general tax law of New York and subject to the provisions of that
law in respect to notice and review by certiorari of the action of the
assessing board, is not obnoxious to the charge of a lack of due process
of law; nor is due process shown to be wanting by a failure to require a
return of the valuation of the franchise held by a corporation separately
from that of the tangible property held under the franchise.

THIS case, like the preceding, involves the special franchise

tax law of New York. The facts are these: On Decenber 22,
1853, the relator was authorized by the city of Brooklyn to
construct, maintain and operate street surface railroads upon
specified streets, and required to enter into a good and sufficient bond conditioned for the faithful performance of all the
terms and stipulations in the resolutions granting the authority.
On December 30 of that year a bond in the sum of $200,000
was duly executed by the relator and that has ever since been
kept in force. The terms and stipulations as to the construction and operation of the railroad need not be mentioned.
The resolutions contained these further provisions.
"The rates of fare for each passenger and the license fee for

BROOKLYN CITY R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
199 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

each car to be paid annually into the city treasury shall be on
the respective lines above mentioned:
"1. Furnam street route, fare not to exceed five cents,
license fee, $50. 2. Court street route, fare not to exceed
four cents, license fee, $20. 3. Powers street route, fare not
to exceed five cents, license fee, $20. 4. Flatbush avenue
route, fare not to exceed five cents, license fee, $20. 5. Fulton
avenue route, fare not to exceed four cents, license fee, $20.
.6. Myrtle avenue route, fare not to exceed four cents, license
fee, $20. 7. Sands street route, fare not to exceed five cents,
license fee, $10. 8. Front street route, fare not to exceed
five cents, license fee, $10."
This action of the city of Brooklyn was validated by the
state legislature. Other contracts were made by the city of
Brooklyn with other companies. Those companies were subsequently consolidated with the relator, which, on the first
of January, 1900, held forty-five similar contracts with the
municipalities for the construction, maintenance and operation
of street surface railroads in the present boroughs of Brooklyn
and Queens. Some of these contracts required the annual
payment of a certain percentage of the gross receipts. Subsequently, under due legislative authority the contract arrangements between the relator and the city were modified in
respect to the amount of the annual license fee. The statute
authorizing the modification contains this clause:
"The said license fees shall be taken in full satisfaction for
the use of the streets or avenues, but the same shall not release
said company from any obligations required by law to keep
such streets or avenues, or any part thereof, in repair, which
said obligations and the contracts, laws oK ordinances creating
and enforcing the same are hereby continued in full force and
operation."
Mr. Charles A. Collin, with whom Mr. William F. Sheehan
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.1
'For abstract of argument see ante, p. 23.

VOL. cxcix-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Mr. Julius M. Mayer, Attorney General of the State 1 of
New York, and Mr. Louis Marshall for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICWE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Do these license fees stand as an equivalent for property
taxes so that a stipulation in respect to them relieves the
property from liability to ordinary taxation? This certainly
would not be the general rule. A license fee is understood to
be a charge for the privilege of carrying on a business or occupation, and is not the equivalent or in lieu of a property tax.
Take the vast volume of occupations; which are subject to
licenses from either the Nation or the State. Who supposes
that in the absence of some express stipulation the fees charged
for those licenses operate to relieve the property employed in
the business from the ordinary burdens of property taxation?
The precise question as to the effect of an ordinance imposing
a license fee for cars used on a street railroad was before the
Court of Appeals in Mayor &c. v. Broadway &c. R. R. Company, 97 N. Y. 275, in which, on page 282, the court said:
"The contract of the defendant arises from the provisions
of its charter by which it agrees to pay a certain sum reserved
therein in consideration of the privileges conferred thereby.
It is neither a tax, nor is it a penalty, and hence the technical
rules as to penal actions or suits to recover a tax which are
invoked by the appellant have no application."
Further, in the statute modifying the license fees, which
was accepted by the relator, it was expressly stated that they
should "be taken in full satisfaction for the use of the streets
or avenues." Clearly, therefore, the fees being imposed for a
specific purpose, they cannot exempt the relator's property
from the tax imposed by the special franchise tax law.
It is further objected that there was a failure of due process
of law in that the special franchise tax law did not indicate
I For abstract of argument see ante, p. 24.

BROOKLYN CITY R: R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
199 U. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

any principle or method for ascertaining the value of the intangible property included in the special franchise, and that
the state board did not make any separate valuation of the
tangible property, and did not adopt or proceed upon any
principle or method in valuing the totality of the tangible and
intangible property, but necessarily indulged in mere speculation and, guesswork instead of exercising judgment in making
the valuation.
We are of opinion that this objection is without merit. The
sections relating to the taxation of special franchises were
enacted as amendments to'and part of the general tax law of
the State, and are to be construed accordingly. By one
section the valuation is to be determined by the state board
of tax commissioners. By another the owner of every such
franchise is required to make a written report to the state
board, containing a full description of the franchise, a copy of
the special grant, ordinance or contract under which it is held,
or, if possessed or enjoyed under a general law, a reference to
such law, a statement of any condition, obligation or burden
imposed upon the franchise, together with such other information as the state board may require; and that board is authorized to require, from time to time, further reports containing information upon such, matters as it may specify.
Not only that; after making the valuation the state board is
required to give notice in writing to the owner of the franchise,
stating the valuation, and that on a day specified, not less than
twenty nor more than thirty days thereafter, it will meet to
hear and determine any complaint against such assessment,
and this notice must be served at least ten days before the day
fixed for the hearing. At the hearing the owner may file a
statement under oath specifying the respect in which the
valuation is incorrect; testimony may be taken and a full investigation had. Another section provides for a review of the
assessment by writ of certiorari. These provisions were all
complied witfi. Notice was given to the relator, and on the
day fixed for the hearing it appeared and filed its objections.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Thereafter it took out a writ of certiorari to review the proceedings of the tax board. Surely by this due process of law
was secured. It will not do to say that the valuation of a piece
of property is mere guesswork. True, it is often largely a
matter of opinion, and mathematical exactness is not always
possible. Various elements enter into and affect an opinion
respecting the value of a given piece of property, and all that
can be required is that the assessing board exercise an honest
judgment based upon the information it possesses or is able to
acquire. That valuation is of the property as a totality, and
it is unnecessary in making an assessment to disintegrate the
various elements which enter into it and ascribe to each its
separate fraction of value. Oftentimes the combination itself
is no inconsiderable factor in creating the value. We are of
the opinion that the relator was not denied due process of law
in the valuation and assessment of its franchise.
We see nothing else in the record calling, for notice, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is
Affirmed.

