OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

after. He made no acknowledgment of the receipt of the
notice, failed to pay the premium and asked no extension of
time. Finally, on the twenty-second day of April, the forfeiture was noted on the books of the company. We think
that the statute was complied with and that the forfeiture.
was legal.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the latter court with instructions to
enter judgment for the defendant.
Reversed.

CORKRAN

OIL AND

DEVELOPMENT

COMPANY

v.-

ARNAUDET.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 22.

Argued October 24, 25, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905..

A petition for rehearing to the Supreme Court of the State is too late to
raise Federal questions in that court unless the petition is entertained
and the point passed on.
Although title may be claimed in the state court under a Federal statute,
if the decision of that court rests on a ground independent of that statute,
and involving no Federal question the writ of error will be dismissed.
THIS

was a petitory action commenced by the Corkran Oil

and Developmennt Company in tile Eighteenth Judicial Dis-

trict Court for the )arish of Acadia, Louisiana, on the sixth
day of December, A. D. 1901, against Laurent Arnaudet and
others, to recover possession of certain real property. Plaintiff alleged that the land was claimed by Anthony Corkran
during his lifetime, an(d by his heirs and legal representatives
after his death, and that said claim, known as the "Corkran
grant," was finally confirmed to Corkran's heirs and legal

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

representatives by an act of Congress of February 10, 1897,
and a patent was issued to them in accordance with the act.
That Corkran died in about the year 1819, and his succession
was duly opened in St. Landry parish, where he resided, and
where the property was situated, and that petitioner acquired
title to said property from Corkran's heirs and descendants
by acts of sale on various dates specified, said dates being subsequent to November 10, 1901. That neither Corkran and
wife, nor any of his heirs, legal representatives or descendants,
ever sold or disposed of their rights, title or interests in the land
before the sales to petitioner, and petitioner was now the just,
true and legal owner of the property. Notwithstanding which,
defendants, without legal right or title and against petitioner's
rights, had entered upon gnd now possessed and held said property and refused to deliver the same to petitioner as of right.
The act of Congress referred to is as follows (29 Stat. 517,
c. 213):
"CHAP. 213. An act to quiet title and possession with respect
to certain unconfirmed and located private land claims in
the State of Louisiana.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House o1 Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That all
the right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the
lands situate in the State of Louisiana, known as the located
but unconfirmed private land claims therein, aggregating about
eighty thousand acres, and specifically described in the list or
tabular statement accompanying the report, dated February
nineteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, made by the surveyor
general of Louisiana to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, under a resolution of the United States Senate of De-.
cember second, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, and which
report and list were communicated to the Senate by the Secretary of the Interior on March eighth, eighteen hundred and
eighty, as Senate Executive Documerit numbered one hundred
and eleven, Forty-sixth Congress, second session, shall be, and
the same are hereby, directed to be granted, released, and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

linquished by the United States, in' fee simple, to the respective owners of the equitable titles thereto, and to their respective heirs and assigns forever, as fully and completely, in every
respect whatever, as could be done by patents issued therefor
according to law.
"SEC. 2. That nothing -contained in this act shall in any
manner abridge, divest, impair, injure, or prejudice any valid
right, title, or interest of any person or persons in or to any
portion or part of the lands mentioned in said first section, the
true intent of this act being to relinquish and abandon, grant,
give, and concede any and all right, interest, and estate, in
law or equity, which the United States is or is supposed to be
entitled to in said lands, in favor of all persons, estates, firms,
or corporations who would be the true and lawful owners of
the same under the laws of Louisiana, including the laws of
prescription, in the absence of the said interest and estate-of
the United States.
"SEc.

3. That the Department of the Interior shall cause

patents to issue for such lands, and such patents shall issue in
the name of the original claimant as appears in the list or
schedule aforesaid, and when issued shall be held to be for the
use and benefit of the true and lawful owners as provided in
sections one and two of this act."
The patent is as follows:
"The United States of America to all to whom these presents
shall come,
'.'Greeting:

"Whereas', by the act of Congress approved February 10th,
A. D. one thousand 'eight' hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
'An act to quiet title and possession with respect to certain
unconfirmed and located private land claims in the State of
Louisiana,' it is provided[Here follows the act of February 10, 1897, in full.]
"And whereas, the private land claim of Anthony Corkran, appears in the list of claims embraced in the aforesaid
Senate Executive Document numbered one hundred and eleven.

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
199 U. S.

185

Statement of the Case.

and, therefore, stands confirmed and entitled to (a patent
under the terms of the) act of Congress hereinbefore recited.
"And whereas, the aforesaid claim has been regularly surveyed as section forty-seven in township nine, south of range
two west in the southwestern district of Louisiana, containing
five hundred and eighty acres and ninety hundredths of an
acre as appears by the plat and descriptive notes thereof on
file in the General Land Office of the United States duly approved by Chas. F. Dickinson, U. S.'surveyor general for the
State of Louisiana, on the thirtieth day of October, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven, which said plat and
descriptive note are herein inserted and made a part of these
presents, and are in the words and figures following, to wit:
[Plat and descriptive note.]
"Now know ye, that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises herein set forth, and in conformity
with the provisions contained in sections two and three of the
aforesaid act of the tenth day of February, one thousand and
eight hundred and ninety-seven, has given and granted and
by these presents does give and grant unto the said Anthony
Corkran and to his heirs and assigns the tract of land embraced and described in the foregoing survey.
"To have and to hold the said tract of land with the appurtenances unto the said Anthony Corkran his heirs, assigns and
successors in interest forever."
Dated November 22, 1897.
The defendants filed exceptions, and also answered, admitting that Anthony Corkran, or Cochran, claimed the land in
question, and that it was patented to Corkran and his heirs
under and according to the act of February 10, 1897, which
was fully set forth in the preamble to the patent; and they
asserted that the true intent of said act of Congress fully appeared from the second section of the act, and that "under
and by virtue of the laws of Louisiana, all the right, title and
interest of Anthony Corkran and his heirs in and to the land
claimed by plaintiff, and patented as aforesaid to Anthony

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

Corkran and his heirs, had been divested long prior to the
issuance of the aforesaid patent, and was held in full and complete ownership long prior to the date of said patent by the
authors of defendants, and by defendants, under valid and
perfect titles, by and under the laws of Louisiana, including
the laws of prescription."
That the authors of defendants and defendants themselves
had acquired by true and valid title all the right, title, interest
and estate at law or in equity in the lands patented to Anthony
Corkran and his heirs prior to the issue of the patent, by virtue of the laws of Louisiana providing for the sale of all lands
situated within its borders for non-payment of taxes, by
mesne conveyances of said lands from the purchaser at a tax
sale December 2, 1882, for unpaid taxes assessed on said realty
for the year 1881; and that since said tax sale the real estate
in question has always been in the possession of the purchaser
at that sale and the authors of defendants and the defendants
themselves, and been occupied by them as owners in undisturbed and quiet possession. Defendants further pleaded in
bar of the action and in support of their title "the prescription
of three, five and ten years, and that the prescription of three
years established by article 233 of the Louisiana constitution
of 1898 is a complete bar to this action." Defendants also
asserted that they had paid taxes on said property during the
time of their possession and had placed thereon valuable improvements, amounting in the aggregate to upwards of twenty
thousand dollars. The trial court decided the case on the
merits, and found that defendants claimed title to the land in
controversy through Henry Gellert, who purchased the land
at a tax sale in 1882, for taxes assessed against said lahd in
the name of Anthony Corkran or his heirs, and set forth the
facts on which the court held that the land in controversy was
subject to such assessment and sale. The trial court held
that the defendants were protected by the prescription of
three years, provided in article 233 of the constitution of 1898,
as well as the prescription of three and five years pleaded,

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and entered judgment for defendants. On appeal, the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the case
being reported 111 Louisiana, 563.
That court found as facts that under the act of February 10,
1897, a patent issued on November 22, 1897, to Anthony
Corkran and his heirs and assigns for the lands in controversy
in this suit; that there was not in the record any previous application for the land or entry thereof by Anthony Corkran, but
that the records of the Land Department showed that in 1816
the land was surveyed by Deputy United States Surveyor
Aborn, by virtue of "an order from the principle deputy surveyor of the western district, State of Louisiana, and in conformity with a certificate, B No. 1151, from the board of commissioners of the said western district" for Anthony Corkran;
that this map and proc~s verbal were approved May 21, 1817,
by Gideon Fritz, principal deputy surveyor; that the land
vas again surveyed in 1875 by P. A. Thibodaux, deputy surveyor, and across his map is written "Claimed by Anthony
Corkran-no confirmation found;" that the officers of the
United States Land Office refused to dispose of the land under
the general land laws of the United States, and finally Congress passed the act of 1897; that on December 27, 1882, the
tax collector of the, parish of St. Landry executed a deed in
favor of Hqenry Gellert, which was recorded on the same day
in the conveyance book of that parish, reciting that on the
second day of December, 1882, he had adjudicated to said
Gellert at public sale the land in controversy, "being the
property of Anthony Corkran or his heirs, as per assessment
roll of the State of Louisiana of the year 1881, to satisfy a
debt due the said State for the unpaid taxes" for said year;
and that "the present defendants are admittedly in possession
of the land patented to Anthony Corkran or his heirs." And
the court held "that the land in controversy was subject to
taxation and sale for non-payment of taxes," and that the
objection that it was not so subject was untenable.
As to the objection that the tax deed was invalid because

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

of indefiniteness of description the court held that the presumption, after the great lapse of time, was that the assessment roll to which the deed referred was sufficiently precise
and definite and was correct and regular, and that defendants
were justified in relying on the presumption of regularity in
the absence of actual attack upon the tax proceedings.
The court held further that the argument of plaintiff that
Corkran and his heirs were without right of any kind in the
land in controversy would leave the Government, so far as
they were concerned, free to make such disposition of said
land as it might think proper, for the result of such argument
would be to throw them out of court for want of interest in
the subject-matter, their rights resting exclusively upon the
Government's acts. The court said:
"If Corkran or his heirs had no claim of character such as
could be enforced or legally entitled to have been recognized,
he Government could impose such conditions to the voluntary recognition of the same as it thought proper, and the
parties claiming under the act of recognition would be forced
to accept them or nothing.
"There is no one before the court claiming rights under the
Government adverse to the rights acquired by the parties
under the Government, and whatever rights the Government
itself might have had, or grounds for objection, it had expressly
renounced and waived, not only in favor and behalf of Anthony
Corkran or his heirs, but of any other person who would have
had legal rights had the Government itself had none when
those rights attached. This renunciation or waiver could as
legally and properly have been made by the Government in
behalf and in favor of this class of persons as it could have
been made in favor of the Corkran heirs, and that this renunciation and waiver was intended to cover and protect
the rights of the latter class appears or the face of the act of
Congress.

.

"Grant that the act of Congress was an original grant to
the Corkran heirs as of date of its passage; it was none the less

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

a grant coupled with conditions and charges in favor of third
parties, and the Corkran heirs were forced to accept the grant
with the conditions attached. They could not accept it as
far as it might be favorable to them, and repudiate its effect
as to other parties.

.

.

.

There are no persons claiming

adverse rights, and, the Government having expressly renounced and waived her own, plaintiff cannot, through her,
urge them."
The court pointed out that counsel, notwithstanding the
provisions of article 233 of the constitution of 1898 as to the
prescription of three years barring an action seeking to annul
a tax title, had brought a direct petitory action against defendants in actual possession of the property which they
claimed. The' court continued:
"On the trial of the case defendants established that they
and their authors had been in possession as they had
alleged;

.

"Defendants evidently relied in their pleadings and proof
upon article 233 of the constitution, upon the strength of the
defensive position which they would hold, when they should
have shown an actual corporeal possession of the property
claimed by themselves and their authors for nineteen or
twenty years as owners, and have traced their rights back to
a tax sale.
" .
Defendants do not plead prescription against the
petitory, but upon an incidentally raised action of nullity.
The sale referred to was strictly a sale for taxes. The property was proceeded against as property belonging to Anthony
Corkran or his heirs, and, as matters have now shaped themselves, it must be taken to have belonged to' them at the time
of the sale. The defendants and their authors not only had
corporeal possession prior to 1898, but it extended before the
institution of this suit for three years after the adoption of
the constitution of 1898 so that this possession was itself protected permanently from attack by plaintiff by article 233,
independently of the merits of the tax title

.

.

.

even

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

199 TJ. S.

had the property at the time of the tax sale not been segregated from the public domain, and even though their title to
the property had been void.

.

.

.

This permanent pro-

tection to possession is equivalent to legal ownership.
v. Roberts, 13 How. 472.

.

.

.

Pillow

Plaintiff had certainly the

right even on its own theory to attack defendants' tax title
after February, 1897; having failed to institute its proceeding
within the three years from the date of the adoption of the
constitution, their right of action was forever barred. In re
Lockhart, 109 Louisiana, 740.
"We think the defendants have sustained their defense under
both of the prescriptions invoked-that of ten years acquirendi causa, and that of three years, under article 233 of the
constitution."
Mr. Kenneth Baillio, with whom Mr. Hampden Story and
Mr. E. B. Dubuisson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
As to the jurisdiction of this court.
Both parties claim title under a Federal statute, under
which the validity of the titles set up is made to depend upon
a correct interpretation of the laws of Louisiana, ergo that
interpretation is a Federal question. This necessarily follows from the very language of ยง 709, Rev. Stat. The right
granted to this court, under that section, to reexamine and
reverse or affirm a final judgment of the highest court of a
State, where any title, right, privilege or immunity is set up
under a statute of the United States, and the decision is against
such title, right, privilege or immunity, is not confined to a
review of the state court's interpretation of the statute underwhich it was claimed, but extends also to a review of the
state court's decision on the validity of the title set up. Smith
v. Maryland, 6 Cranch, 286; Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 359.
Mr. Donelson Caffery, Jr., and Mr. Gilbert L. Dupr, with
whom Mr. Donelson Caffery, Mr. J. Sully Martel and Mr.
P. J. Chappin were on the brief, for defendants in error:
As to the jurisdiction.

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
199 U. S.

191

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Before it can be said that any right or title under a statute
of the United States has been denied, it is necessary to overcome the judgment of the state court upon a question of local
or state law. To do this, the Supreme Court of the United
States has no jurisdiction under ยง 25 of the judiciary act.
Poppe v. Langford, 104 U. S. 770; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S.
309; Lyttle v. Arkansas, 22 How. 193; Telluride Power Co. v.
R. G. Western R. R., 175 U. S. 639; S. C., 187 U. S. 569; Dibble
v. Land Co., 163 U. S. 63.
The question here is not one of the correctness of the
state decision brought up by the writ, but of jurisdiction
in this court to review the case in the absence of a Federal
question. The cases cited by plaintiff in error are not applicable.
The Federal question must be considered as not decided
when a question of state law intervenes, and is decisive of
the case. To give jurisdiction, the Federal question must
be necessary to the judgment or decree complained of. Detroit
R. R. v. Guithard, 114 U. S. 133; Choteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S.
200; State v. Board of Liquidation, 98 U. S. 140; McManus v.
O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590;
Adams v. Burlington R. R., 112 U. S. 127; Chapman v. Goodwin, 123 U. S. 548; Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 400; Water
Works v. Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 29; DeSausure v. Gaillard, 127
U. S. 234; Israel v. Arthur, 152 U. S. 262; Wailes v. Smith, 157
U. S. 276; Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 565; San Franciscov. Strell,
133 U. S. 567.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, Mr. John SpaldingFlannery and
Mr. James L. Autry also for defendants in error, submitted
on the question of jurisdiction:
Whether the conclusion reached was correct depends entirely upon the proper construction and application of the
provisions of the state constitution to the facts found. It does
not in anywise depend upon the Constitution or laws or authority of the United States. A writ of error to review such

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

a judgment will not lie. Chapman v. Crane, 123 U. S. 540;
Wells v. Goodnow, 150 U. S. 84.
Where the decision of the state Supreme Court rests on an
independent ground of law, not involving any Federal question, this court has no jurisdiction. Water Works Co. v. Sugar
Co., 125 U. S. 18.
The ground of the decision in the state courts was independent of any claim of right under the statute of 1897, and
its adjudication involved no Federal question and the writ of
error must be dismissed. Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361;
Carothersv. Mayer, 164 U. S. 325; Moran v. Horsky, 178 U. S.
205.
If the accident that either one or both of the parties to the
controversy claimed title under the United States was to be
considered as sufficient to bring it within the jurisdiction of
this court, then every controversy involving the title to such
lands, whether it involved merely the inheritance, partition,
devise, or sale of it, would with equal propriety be subject to
examination by this court. Moreland v. Page, 20 How. 522;
Carpenter v. Williams, 9 Wall. 785; Martin v. Marks, 97 U. S.
345.
The mere averment of the existence of a Federal question
is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction; a real and not
a fictitious Federal question is essential to give this court
jurisdiction over the judgment of state courts, and when it
appears that the alleged Federal question upon which jurisdiction is invoked is wholly without foundation the writ of
error will be dismissed. Sawyer v. Piper,189 U. S. 154,156,157.
The attempt to assert a Federal question for the first time
in a petition for rehearing is too late unless it appears that the
court entertained the petition and disposed of the question.
Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S. 192.
having made the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the. court,
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

In the progress of the case in the trial court no Federal

CORKRAN OIL COMPANY v. ARNAUDET.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

question as such was specifically raised, but when it reached
the 'Supreme Court it was assigned for error that if article 233
of the constitution of Louisiana of 1898 had the effect of validating the tax sale to Henry Gellert it was in violation of Article
5 of the.amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
Counsel for plaintiff in error admit that this was a misreference,
but contend that it was corrected by the petition for rehearing filed after judgment, which alleged a violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, but this came too late, unless the
petition was entertained and the point passed on. Fullerton
v. Texas, i96 U. S. 192. And this petition was denied without any observations.
The petition for the writ of error from this court and the assignment of errors herein set up Federal questions, but they
form no part of the record on which to determine whether a
Federal question was decided by the state court. Leeper v.
Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Chapin v. Fye, 179 U. S. 127. And
counsel further state "that in so far as the errors assigned are
said to have violated the due process of law provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, they are not pressed."
If it be conceded that plaintiff specially set up and claimed
title to the land in controversy under the act of Congress of
February 10, 1897, that would not be sufficient to give jurisdiction unless the state courts had decided against such title.
But that was not the decision here. What was decided was
that the prescribed period having elapsed, article 233 of the
Louisiana constitution operated as the equivalent of legal
title through the tax deed. The correctness of this conclusion depended on the proper construction and application of
the provisions of the state constitution on the facts found,
and n6t on the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The state constitution of 1898 was adopted and went into
effect May 12, 1898. La. Const. 1898, p. 88. Article 233
provided:
"No sale of property for taxes shall be set aside for any
VOL. c:icix-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

cause, except on proof of dual assessment, or of payment of
the taxes for which the property was sold prior to the date
of sale, unless the proceeding to annul is instituted
within three years from the adoption of this constitution, as
to sales already made.
.
" Constitution 1898, p. 61.
The record showed that defendants and their authors had
been, since 1882, in quiet, peaceable possession of the property
in question under a tax title, the validity of which had not
been impeached by any direct proceeding; that more than
three years had elapsed before the institution of the present
action since the adoption of the constitution (and more than
that since the passage of the act of February 10, 1897, and the
issue of the patent, November 22, 1897), and that at any time
within such three years plaintiff or its authors might have
instituted suit against defendants to annul the sale.
And the decision of the state Supreme Court that, in these
circumstances, article 233 made good defendants' title rested
on a ground independent of the act of 1897, and involved no
Federal question.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 84.

Argued October 13, 16, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905.

The power of taxation is exercised upon the assumption of an equivalent
rendered in the protection of tle property and person of he taxpayer,
and if such equivalent cannot possibly be rendered because the property
taxed is wholly beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing power the taxation
thereof within the domicil of the owner amounts to a taking of property
without due process of law.
While there may be individual cases where the weight of the tax neces-

