OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

ceding, in which opinions have just been announced, there are
no such differences as put them outside the scope of the reasoning of those opinions. Therefore, the judgments in them
are
Affirmed.

GLEASON v. WHITE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 188.

Argued and Submitted March 16, 17, 1905.-Decided May 29, 1905.

Two official surveys of a tract of land bordering on navigable waters were,
with an interval of thirty years, duly made, approved and filed in the
Land Department at Washington. By the earlier survey a fractional
section was divided into two lots, by the later into seven. These divisions
conflicted. After the later survey two patents were issued, one using
the description in the first and conveying the entire fractional section,
the other following the second survey and conveying only part of the
section. As to a portion of the ground these patents conflicted. In an
action at law in the state court the second patent prevailed as to the
tract in conflict.
Held that, in the absence of findings of fact (there being evidence tending
to show that the first patentee took with full knowledge of the two surveys,
the later one having been made partly at least at his request, and it also
appearing that by the decision he received the full number of acres to
which he was by the earlier survey entitled and for which he paid), the
judgment in favor of the second patentee for the part in conflict ought
not to be disturbed.

IN 1845 fractional township 53 south, range 42 west, in
Dade County, Florida, was surveyed and a plat thereof was
approved and filed in the office of the surveyor general in
Florida, and also in the office of the Land Department of
Washington. By this survey fractional section 19 was divided into two lots, numbered 1 and 2, containing 164.84
acres. In 1875 a resurvey was made of the township, plats of
which were also duly approved and filed in the office of the

GLEASON v. WHITE.
Statement of-the Case.

199 U. S.

surveyor general in Florida and with the Land Department
at Washington. By this new survey said section 19 was
divided into 7 lots, containing in the aggregate 337.76 acres.
The difference between the two surveys of section 19 is shown
in the folldwing plats:
Plat 1875.

Plat 1845.

SEC./.9.

IOn June 24, 1878, a patent was issued to William H. Gleason,
on a homestead application, for a tract described as lots 1 and
2 of section 19, containing 164.84 acres, according to the official
plat of the survey of 1845. Plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, claims by deed from the patentee. On May 4, 1885,
lot 5 of section 19, according to the survey in 1875, was patented by the United States to Florida as swamp land, and
thereafter deeded by the State to the defendant. In 1898 this

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S.

action to recover a part of lot 5 was commenced in the Circuit
Court of the Seventh Judicial Circuit of Florida, in and for
Dade County. The case was tried by the court without a
jury; a judgment rendered for the defendant was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State, and thereafter brought to
this court on writ of error. Included in the action was lot 1
of section 19, as shown by the plat of .1875, but as judgment
was rendered for the plaintiff in respect to that tract, it is unnecessary to further refer to it. There was a stipulation as to
certain facts, with a provision that testimony of further facts
might be received, and that the court might view the premises.
The findings of the court recite that it viewed the premises,
and upon the stipulated facts, and further testimony incorporated in a bill of exceptions, found generally for the defendant
as to lot 5.
Mr. George M. Robbins for plaintiff in error:
The jurisdiction of this court is invoked because plaintiff
in error asserted, in the state courts, his right to land in lot 5,
under a patent issued by the United States and the statutes
governing the survey and contents of divisions of the public
lands, and this right was denied.; and because the rights of the
parties also involved a consideration of the swamp land grant
of September 28, 1850. St. Paul & Pa. R. R. Co. v. Schurmeier, 7 Wall. 272; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Live
Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47; Kean v. Calumet Canal &
Imp. Co., 190 U. S. 452.
The United States having once granted this land under a
patent it did not pass by the swamp land patent to the State.
Stone v. United States, 2 Wall. 525; Hooper v. Scheimer, 23
How. 235; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall 92.
The plat by which Gleason made his entry and received his
patent showed that he had a water boundary to the entire
fractional section on the east. The state court gives him a
boundary on land (lot 5) for the south half of the north half
of his entry. The rule is that where a section is made frac-

GLEASON v. WHITE.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tional by the interference of water an entryman of land shown
by the plat to be bounded by the water, takes to the water.
This is not a case where the claimant would have to go into
another section to reach the water, nor where there is a bayou
which may be supposed to be the water meandered, instead
of the shore of the bay; but it is a case coming clearly within
the rule stated.
Meanders are ran to define the general course of the shore
and it is not customary to run ordinates from the meander
lines to get the exact shore line, in making the government
surveys. From this it results that shore lots sometimes con.tain a considerable excess and sometimes a considerable deficiency of land, as compared with the acreage returned by the
surveyors. In the present case the patent was issued after
the resurvey had developed the existence of the excess, and
the fact that all the land in the fractional section was granted
is evidence that the Government intended to relinquish any
claim it might have to the excess land. Had it been the intention to set aside the survey of 1845 as a fraud on the Government, the patent to Gleason would not have been issued
in 1878, after the survey of 1874 had exposed 'the liberality
of the first survey in the matter of acreage returned. Harden
v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371; Mitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406;
Kean v. Calumet Canal & Imp. Co., 190 U. S. 452.
The court erred in holding that the patent to William H.
Gleason of all of fractional section 19, shid township and
range above, was not a decision of the Land Department that
the greater part of each lot into which said section was divided
by the plat under which the Gleason patent issued, was not
swamp and overflowed land, so that no land in said section
passed to the State under the swamp land act.
The court erred in holding that land which appeared to be
covered by waters of Biscayne Bay by the official plat in effect
September 28, 1850, the date of the swamp land grant, could
have been granted by that act, and in holding that title to
the land in controversy in lot 5, as shown by the survey of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S.

1874, passed to the State by the act of 1850 and was state
land at the time of the patent to Gleason, and that the subsequent patent to the State was but a recognition of a title
existing in the State since 1850.
The foregoing ass~gnments may be discussed together.
It was argued in the state courts by the defendant that
when the Government patented lot 5, as per pat of 1875,
to the State, this was an adjudication of its swamp character,
and as the act of September 28, 1850 (known as the swamp
land act) made a grant of swamp lands in prcesenti, the title to
the lot had really been in the State since September 28, 1850,
and the attempt to patent it to Gleason in 1878 was abortive.
The fallacy is obvious. There was no lot 5 on 6eptember 28, 1850. At that time fractional section 19 was divided
into but two lots, numbered 1 and 2. It was decided by the
Land Department that neither of these two lots belonged to
the State under the swamp land act, when the patent was
issued to Gleason in 1878. The action of the Government in
patenting the entire fractional section to Gleason was conclusive as to its non-swamp character. The Department had
lost jurisdiction over the matter in 1885 when it attempted
to grant lot 5 to the State.
Titles to lands patented by the Government to private
parties, which might by any possibility be classified as swamp,
would be very insecure were this position of the defendant
tenable. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Rogers Locomotive
Machine Works v. American Emigrant Co., 164 U. S. 559;
Mich. Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589.
The court erred in holding invalid the claim of the plaintiff
under the statutes of the United States governing the surveys
of the public lands, and the statutes relating to homestead
entries and patents issued thereon to the land in controversy
in this suit situated in lot 5 as shown on the plat of 1874.
Act of February 11, 1805, 2 Stat. 313; §§ 2396, 2397, Rev.
Stat.; act of April 5, 1832, 4 Stat. 503.

GLEASON v. WHITE.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Edward L. White defendant in error in propria persona:
Upon the facts the legal proposition is whether the patents
to Gleason conveyed the entire north half of this fractional
section as shown on the plat of the survey of 1874-1875; or
whether it only embraced the area contained in lot 1 of the
survey of 1845, 4s bounded by the lines drawn on the map
.and the lengths and boundaries of these lines as thereon
marked, for which no field notes are shown.
The line of commencing at the southeast corner of this
section on the plat of 1845 and running thence N. 2' W.,
80.60 chains is not a meander line, according to any authority
defining such a line. Lots 1 and 2 of survey of 1845 are
bounded on all sides by straight lines. Turner v. Parker, 14
Oregon, 340; Railroad Co. v. Schurmier, 7 Wall. 272.
As to the manner of taking distances from one point to
another on navigable waters the measurement is by its meanders, and not in a direct line. See Rayburn v. Winant 16
Oregon, 318; Johnson v. Pannel, 2 Wheat. 206.
In all of the cases cited by counsel for plaintiff in error, in
which the questions of water boundaries are decided, the field
notes are given, showing that the lines were run to the water
boundary at some point, as required by statute. No case is
cited in which the field notes were not used to show the point at
which the line reached the water. Counsel for plaintiff in
error admits that the distance given from the northwest corner
to the Bay is too short. It is too short because it was never
run by any survey made in 1845, of which any field notes are
given, but was simply plotted by the draughtsman to show
the area of the lot. The rule "That the call for distance must
give way to the natural boundary," applies, only to cases
where the field notes show that the line was actually run to
such boundary.
There is strong corroborative evidence that no interior subdivisional survey was made of this township in 1845, and
therefore there was no original survey to be obliterated, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

accounts for the absence. of any, field notes of a subdivisional
survey of this township in 1845.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The case was tried by the court without a jury. No special
findings of fact having been made, and the proceedings in the
trial court having been approved by the Supreme Court of the
State, without an opinion, we must affirm the judgment if
there be evidence sufficient to sustain it, although there may
be other testimony of a contradictory nature.' It is not our
province to weigh conflicting testimony in a case coming to
us as this does.
It is-undoubtedly true that the official surveys of the public
lands of the United States are controlling. Stoaeroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240; Russell v. Maxwell Land Grant Co., 158
U. S. 253; United States v. Montana Lumber and Manufacturing Co., 196 U. S. 573; Whitaker v. McBride, 197 U. S. 510.
Here we have two conflicting official surveys and plats, and,
by mistake of the Land Department, two patents have been
issued, which, in a certain aspect of the surveys and plats,
also conflict. It is one of those unfortunate mistakes which
sometimes occur, and which necessarily throw confusion and
doubt upon titles. Since it was discovered the Land Department has wisely refused to extend the confusion by further
patents under the survey of 1875.
The patent to Gleason was three years after the last survey,
which, in so far as it conflicted with the prior survey, superseded
that and became the official record of the Land Department.
Notwithstanding this, the patent purports to convey lots 1
and 2 as shown by the survey of 1845. Undoubtedly the
mistake arose because the homestead entry, which must have
been five years before the patent, was made before the survey
of 1875, and at that time the official record was the plat of
1845, which showed only the two lots. Through carelessness,

GLEASON v. WHITE.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and not recognizing the change made by the survey of, 1875,
the patent refers to the survey of 1845, relying upon the
description in the homestead entry. The land patented
amounted to 164.84 acres. The homestead law allowed one
to enter 160 acres, and as the patent covered 4.84 acres more
than the amount allowed for a homestead, the patentee paid
the Government price for the excess, $6.05. The contract of
McKay for the survey of 1845 was a contract to survey the
exterior lines of township 53, and while the field notes of the
west line of the township are preserved, his notes of the east
and subdivision lines are not to be found in the Land Department. The plat, as will be seen, shows an east line running
north 2 ° west, 80.60 chains, a south line 22.61 chains from the
west line, and a north line 19.81 chains, making almost a
rectangle, and containing the number of acres described in the
patent. East of this township appears Biscayne Bay, according to each plat. The plat ipade in 1875 shows a south line
22.35 chains, very nearly the same as that of the plat of 1845,
but the north line is 59.92 chains, making an almost complete
quarter of the N. W. sec. 19. The field notes of the survey of
1875 show that the surveyor found on the line between sections 18 and 19, at a distance of 40.35 chains from the west
township line, an old quarter section post, and set a new one
in place of it. It would seem a not unreasonable conclusion
from this that McKay in 1845 in fact surveyed a tract of land
east of lots 1 and 2, but that when the plat was made either his
field notes had disappeared or were ignored in running the lines
of the north half of section 19. It further appears that the
survey" of 1875 was requested by the patentee, William H.
Gleason, who stated that the survey of the entire township
was entirely or almost entirely obiiterated. It also appears
that Gleason, when he received his patent, took title to what
was substantially the west half of the northwest quarter and
the west half of the southwest quarter of section 19, the east
line, as shown by the plat, being almost a straight line, running north and south. It does not seem that he could have

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

been mistaken as to the land that he was acquiring from the
Government, for he must have lived on it five years in order
to have perfected his homestead. He could not have been
ignorant of the large tract lying east of what was described in
the plat of 1845 as "lot 1." The official plat at the time of the
patent was the plat of the survey of 1875. He was chargeable
as matter of law with notice of that plat. More than that, as
the survey was at his instance, it is a reasonable assumption
that in fact he knew what the lines of that survey and plat
were. Under those circumstances full justice is done if a
patent title to lands outside his lines as shown by the plat of
1845, is sustained, for he still is protected in the tract bounded
by those lines and amounting to 164.84 acres. To give him
twice that amount of land would be enabling him to profit
by a mistake of the Government-a mistake of which he was
cognizant. Under those circumstances we are of opinion that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida must be and
it is
Affirmed.

HYDE v. SHINE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 406.

Argued February 21, 23, 1905.-Decided May 29, 19.

Section 1014, Rev. Stat., authorizes a removal from a judicial district in
a State to the District of Columbia. Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1.
Where the indictment charges that a conspiracy was entered into in a District, the trial court of that District has jurisdiction of the offense
although the overt acts carrying out the conspiracy were committed in
another jurisdiction.
While this court does not approve the practice of indicting citizens in courts
far distant from their residence if they can be tried in courts of their own
jurisdiction, § 1014, Rev. Stat., contains no discrimination based upon

