MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
/
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 46.

Submitted November 2,1905.-Decided December 4, 1905.

In the absence of legislation by Congress, a State has full power to improve its lands and promote the general health by authorizing dams
across interior streams, although previously navigable to the sea.
Nothing in the existing constitution of South Carolina interferes with the
common-law powers of the State over its navigable waters.
The interdiction of statutes impairing the obligation of contracts does not
prevent a State from properly exercising its police powers for the public
good notwithstanding contracts previously entered into between individuals may be affected.
While the police power of a State is subject to limitations there is a wide
discretion as to its exercise in the legislature, with whose determination
as to what is and what is not necessary the courts ordinarily will not
interfere.
Except where property is taken for which compensation must be made,
private interests are subservient to the exercise of the police power and
must give way to general schemes for the public health.
Courts may take judicial notice that the. public health is greatly affected
by the existence of swamp lands and the reclamation of such lands is a
proper exercise of the police powers.
Where there is a practical destruction, or material impairment of value, of
lands by overflowing them as the result of construction of dams, there
is a taking within the meaning of the Federal Constitution which demands
compensation, but otherwise when the owner is merely put, as in this
case, to additional expense in warding off the consequences of the overflow.
A court of equity is not bound to enjoin a public work authorized by statute, until compensation is paid where no property is directly appropriated, especially where it is difficult to ascertain the damage, if any,
and the statute contains reasonable provisions for compensation.
Although a river may, for purposes of transit and travel, be a highway, in
the prohibition in the constitution of South Carolina against special
legislation in regard to highways, that word is used in its ordinary sense
and the prohibition is inapplicable to water highways.
A general law enacted by a legislature may be repealed, amended or disregarded by a subsequent legislature, and a special act is not necessarily
invalid because the legislature dispensed with certain formalities required by a general law in regard to the passage of such act.

THIS was a bill in equity filed March 4, 1903, by Manigault

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

199 U. S.

to enjoin the damming or otherwise obstructing Kinloch Creek,
in the county of Georgetown, South Carolina. A demurrer to
the bill was sustained, and the bill subsequently dismissed.
See 123 Fed. Rep. 708.
It seems that, in 1898, the plaintiff and the two defendants,
Springs and Lachicotte, together with one Ford, were adjoining riparian owners on the Santee River, at the mouth of
Kinloch Creek. The creek furnished access as a highway to
all the proprietors on its banks. At that time the defendants
constructed a*d m across the creek for their own purposes.
Objection was inade to this by plaintiff and by Ford as an
interference with their rights of passage and irrigation. Plaintiff also complained that the effect was to compel him to raise
the dikes around his lands. As a result of long negotiations,
a compromise was effected and a contract entered into in
August, 1898, between defendants under the name of S. M.
Ward & Company of the first part and plaintiff and Ford of
the second part, whereby it was agreed that the obstructions
should continue until December 31 of that year, when they
should be removed, so as to give the parties complaining a clear
passage through the creek.
This removal was effected and matters allowed to remain
as they were until 1903, when the General Assembly of the
State passed an act, reciting the necessity of draining the low
lands on the Santee River, whereby their taxable value would
be greatly enhanced. Authority was given to the defendants
by name to erect and maintain a dam across Kinloch Creek,
with a proviso that they should be liable for all -iuch damages
as might be established in any court of competent jurisdiction
by any landowner claiming that his land had been damaged
by reason of the erection of the dam.
Mr. Henry A. M. Smithjfor appellant:
There was a contract. It was under seal and contained
mutual concessions and covenants. Storm v. United States,
94 U. S. 76; Park Bros. v. Kelly, 49 Fed. Rep. 625.

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The statute impairs the contract. Oregon &c. Co. v. Winsor,
20 Wall. 64; Hulse v. Bonsach Machine Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 864.
The statute is not a valid exercise of the police power. It
is a franchise grant. This court has not as yet attempted to
define the police power. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S.
11.
It must, however, have some relation to the public
good or health. Re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 110; Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 133; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 661.
This statute is not a measure intended for the public health,
safety, or morals. Under the police power the State may
destroy obnoxious or pernicious property or substances, but
it cannot appropriate them for public use. It is prohibitive,not constructive, as applied to the use of individual property
or the regulation of individual pursuits. It can destroy diseased
cattle, or impure foods, or liquor, or obscene pictures, or any
article adjudged to be obnoxious to the public health, morals
or safety-but it cannot appropriate and use them for public
or private purposes, save under the exercise of the power of
eminent domain and aftier due compensation. Leovy v. United
States, 177 U. S. 621, is not applicable.
The State may take this property under its power of eminent
domain but it must compensate the owner. The distinction
between the two powers is clear.
Under the police power, the State can regulate the use .but
not destroy the existence of private property, except where
that property is in itself positively pernicious to the public
welfare, and its existence forbidden by law, in which case the
individual is not entitled to receive compensation for the
damage incidental to such regulation.
Under the power of eminent domain, the State can appropriate private property for public purposes, but only on condition of full compensation to the party whose property is appropriated. Const. South Carolina, art. I, § 17.
As to navigable rivers in South Carolina see Const., Art. I,
§§ 28, 29; Code of Laws, 1902, tit. X, ch. XXVIII, § 1335;
McCullough v. Wall, 4 Rich. 68; Shands v. Triplett, 5 Rich.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

199 U. S.

Eq. 78. As to the value of riparian rights see Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall.
57; Steamboat Co. v. Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 682; Illinois
Central v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 445.
The rules laid down in these cases are not affected by Shively
v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141.
Although the rights of a riparian proprietor are not absolute,
but subject to a servitude, viz., the right of the dominant
sovereignty, state or Federal, to improve navigation. In all
other respects his rights, when once vested, are the same as
those of any other landowner, subject to no servitude as such,
but subject, of course, to the right of the dominant sovereignty,
state or Federal, to take or appropriate his riparian properties
for public use, but upon payment of compensation.
So' far from the statute being a statute to improve navigation, it is intended to destroy navigation, and by closing the
creek to prevent all access by riparian proprietors.
The taking by statute of the private property of a person
or corporation is not due process of law. Yates v. Milwaukee,
10 Wall. 504; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Missouri
Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 417; Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 383; Muhlker v. New York & H. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544.
The cases relied on by the defense, Willson v. Black Bird
Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet.- 247; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall.
713, are inapplicable and can be distinguished.
The statute is special legislation under Const. South Carolina, Art. III, § 34. The General Assembly shall not enact
local or special laws to lay out, open, alter or work roads or
highways. Dean v. Spartanburg,59 S. Car. 110; State v. Queen,
62 S. Car. 250; Grocery Co. v. Burnett, 61 S. Car. 211.
A navigable stream is a highway, Heyward v. Chisolm, 11
Rich. 263, and it is so declared by the constitutional and
statutory provisions.
The statute is void under §§ 31, 34, of the Code of Laws,
1902, prohibiting the passage of private laws without notice.

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Theodore G. Barker for appellees.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.JUSTICE BROWN,

The gravamen of the bill is the alleged impairment by the
statute of 1903 of the contract entered into in 1898, by which
defendants agreed to remove the dam then existing, and to
allow such creek to remain open and unobstructed.
It was also charged that the constitution of South Carolina
declaring that all navigable waters should forever remain
public highways was a privilege annexed to and constituting
a part of the value of the lands, and that the damming of the
creek, except for the purpose of the public health, welfare and
safety and without due compensation therefor, was a destruction of the property of the plaintiff and a deprivation
thereof without due process of law.
The specific injury complained of is that the plaintiff is the
owner of a rice plantation on the North Santee River, bordering on Minim Creek, a tributary of the Santee, and lying in
part just opposite the mouth or entrance of Kinloch Creek;
that, relying on the agreement of the defendants, he had also
purchased a millsite on the Santee, which could be used for a
rice mill or a saw mill, the chief element of value of which was
the water connection by means of a canal with Bluff Back
Creek, accessible only through Kinloch Creek, and the consequent necessity of keeping Kinloch Creek open and unobstructed; that Kinloch Creek is a water highway, navigable
by vessels into the Santee River and thence into the ocean;
that the erection and retention of a dam across Kinloch Creek
would not only interrupt his use of Kinloch Creek and Bluff
Back Creek by preventing access to the public landing on the
state road from his plantation on Kinloch Creek, but would
obstruct the inflow of the tide of the Santee River through
Minim Creek, causing the water from the river to flow back
upon the banks to the plantation opposite the mouth of Kin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

loch Creek, and would thus compel him to raise and strengthen
his banks.
1. The first question considered by the court below was
whether Kinloch Creek was a navigable water of the United
States, as defined in the case of The Montello, 11 Wall. 411;
S. C., 20 Wall. 430, or navigable, as navigable streams are
defined by the constitution and the laws of South Carolina.
The court was of opinion, based apparently upon affidavits
not sent up with the record, that the creek was not a navigable
stream under these definitions.
But the bill alleges that " Kinloch Creek is a navigable stream
or water highway," and the cause was determined upon demurrer to the bill, which admits the allegation of the bill that
the creek was navigable. As an original proposition we have
repeatedly held that, in the absence of legislation by Congress,
a State has power to improve its lands and promote the general
health by authorizing a dam to be built across its interior
streams, though they were previously navigable to the sea
by vessels engaged in the coastwise trade.. This was decided
in Willson v. Black Bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245, in a brief
but cogent opinion by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall. An act of
the State of Delaware gave the defendant the right to build a
dam across the Black Bird Creek, the constitutionality of which
act was attacked as an abridgement of the rights of those
who had been accustomed to use it for the purposes of navigation. "But this abridgement," said the court (p. 251), "unless it comes in conflict with the Constitution or a law of the
United States, is an affair between the government of Delaware and its citizens, of which this court can take no cognizance." The act was sustained. See also Pound v. Turck,
95 U. S. 459; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Huse v.
Glover, 119 U. S. 543.
. We do not think the provision of the constitution of South
Carolina interferes with these common law powers of the State
over its navigable waters. In Escanaba Company v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678, 688, it was held that the right of bridging naviga-

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

ble streams extended to the State of Illinois, notwithstanding
that the ordinance of 1787, for the government of the Northwest Territory, contained a clause declaring that "the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and
the carrying places between them, shall be common highways
and forever free." The power to span these rivers by bridges
was put, partly upon the theory that the limitations upon the
power of the State whilst in a territorial condition ceased to
have any operative force except as voluntarily adopted, by
her after she became a State of the Union, and partly upon the
theory, as said Mr. Justice Field, page 689, that "all highways,
whether by land or water, are subject to such crossings as the
public necessities and convenience may require, and their
character as such is not changed, if the crossings are allowed
under reasonable conditions, and not so as to needlessly obstruct the use of the highways."
So also in Cardwell v. Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205, a provision
in the act admitting California, that "all the navigable waters
within the said State shall be common highways and forever
free," was held not to deprive the State of the power possessed
by it to authorize the erection of bridges over navigable waters.
Said the court, page 211, "the clause, therefore, in the act admitting California, quoted above, upon which the complainant
relies, must be considered, according to these decisions, as in
no way impairing the power which the State could exercise
over the subject if the clause had no existence." To the same
effect, Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; Hamilton v. Vicksburg &c. R. R. Co., 119 U. S. 280, 284.
In Lake Shore &c. R. R. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365, it was
held that the act of September 19, 1890, conferring upon the
Secretary of War the authority to direct the alteration of such
bridges so as to render navigation easy and unobstructed, did
not deprive the States of authority to bridge such streams.
While all of these cases turned upon the power of the State
to authorize the erection of bridges, the same principle applies
where the legislature deems it necessary to the public welfare

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

to make other improvements for the reclamation of swampy
and overflowed lands, though certain individual proprietors
may thereby be subjected to expense. The question whether
Kinloch Creek could be obstructed without the permission of
the Secretary of War does not arise in this case, and is specially
disclaimed by the plaintiff. See Lake Shore &c. Railroad Co.
v. Ohio, 165 U. S.365; Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S.621,
633; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.410; Montgomery v. Portland, 190 U. S.89.
The main argument was addressed to the question whether
the contract of August, 1898, providing for the removal of the
obstruction on December 31 and the free ingress and egress
through the creek thereafter, was impaired by the act of the
General Assembly of 1903, permitting the defendants by name
to construct and maintain the dam in question.
It is the settled law of this court' that the interdiction of
statutes impairing the obligation of contracts does not prevent
the State from exercising such powers as are vested in it for
the promotion of the common weal, or are necessary for the
general good of the public, though contracts previously entered into between individuals may thereby be affected. This
power, which in its various ramifications is known as the police
power, is an exercise of the sovereign right of, the Government
to protect the lives, health, morals, comfort and general welfare of the people, and is paramount to any rights under contracts between individuals. Familiar instances of this are,
where parties enter into contracts, perfectly lawful at the time,
to sell liquor, operate a brewery or distillery, or carry on a
lottery, all of which are subject to impairment by a change of
.policy on the part of the State, prohibiting the establishment
or continuance of such traffic ;-in other words, that parties
by entering into contracts may not estop the legislature from
enacting laws intended for the public good.
While this power is subject to limitations in certain cases,
there is wide discretion on the part of the legislature in determining what is and what is not necessary-a discretion which

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

courts ordinarily will not interfere with. The leading case upon
this point is that of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge,
11 Pet. 420, in which a franchise to maintain a ferry between
Cambridge and Boston, under which a bridge was subsequently
erected, was held to be subject to the power of the legislature
t establish a parallel bridge between the same points. In
Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, a charter to a lottery company for twenty-five years was held to be subject to te power
of the State to abolish lotteries altogether. Similar cases
announcing the same principle are Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. $.
645; Beer Company v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Butchers'
Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; New Orleans Gas
Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 672; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 665; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226.

It only remains to consider, in connection with this branch
of the case, whether the act of the General Assembly of 1903
was a proper exercise of the police power of the State. Of this
we have no doubt. Although it was not an exercise of that
power in its ordinarily accepted sense of protecting the health,
lives and morals of the community, it is defensible in its
broader meaning of providing for the general welfare of the
people, by the reclamation of swampy, overflowed and infertile
lands, and the erection of dams, levees and dikes for that
purpose. We have often held that private interests are subservient to that right, except where property is taken for which
compensation must be paid, and must give way to any general
for the reclamation or improvement of such lands.
scheme
Indeed,
this seems to have been within the contemplation
of Congress in its act of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, to
enable the States to reclaim the swamp lands within their
limits, the first section of which enacts that "To enable the
State of Arkansas to construct the necessary levees and drains
to reclaim the swamps and overflowed lands therein, the whole
of those swamp and overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for
cultivation . . .
VOL. oxcIx-1

shall be, and the same are hereby, granted

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

to said State." Section 4 extends this provision to the other
States. Although the act has no direct bearing on this case,
it recognizes an intent on the part of Congress to allow the
States to regulate the disposal of overflowed lands, as the
legislature shall deem best for the public interests. That the
act of the General Assembly in question was passed upon this
theory is indicated by its. recitals, that "by reason of the
drainage and protection, of said lands from overflow, their
taxable value will be greatly enhanced, and without the dam
provided for in this bill a large part of the land bordering on
said creek will eventually become abandoned and valueless,
as some portions of it now are," and that this "is the only
feasible and practicable scheme for the drainage of said lands."
This was the reason given for the passage of the act of the
General Assembly of Delaware in the Black Bird Creek case,
already cited. Chief Justice Marshall observed (p. 251): "The
value of the property on its banks must be enhanced by excluding the water from the marsh, and the health of the inhabitants probably improved. Measures calculated to produce these objects, provided they do not come into collision
with the powers of the General Government, are undoubtedly
within those which are reserved to the States." Several subsequent decisions have confirmed the power of the State to
deal, in the absence of Congressional legislation, with their
rivers, for the purposes of their internal improvement, such as
Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84, wherein the right of Mississippi
to change the channels or courses of rivers within the State for
the purpose of improvement was sustained, and Atkinson v.
Philadelphia &c. R. R. Co., 2 Fed. Cases, 105, Case 615, a
decision by Mr. Justice Baldwin of this court.
The whole subject was recently discussed in the case of
Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S.621, wherein was vindicated
the right of the State of Louisiana to authorize the construction
and maintenance of levees, drains and other structures necessary and suitable to reclaim swamp and overflowed lands,
although there was evidence that the stream there concerned

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(Red Pass) was useful for some minor purposes of interstate
commerce: There was testimony that luggers or yawls chiefly
used by fishermen to carry-oysters to and from their beds
sometimes went through this pass, but it was not shown that
passengers ever went through it, or that freight destined for
any other State was ever carried through it.
In delivering an exhaustive opinion in this case, Mr. Justice Shiras observed (p. 636): "We think that the trial court
might well take judicial notice that the public health is deeply
concerned in the reclamation of swamp and overflowed lands.
If there is any fact which may be supposed to be known by
everybody, and, therefore, by courts, it is that swamps and
stagnant waters are the cause of malarial and malignant fevers,
and that the police power is never more legitimately exercised
than in removing such nuisances."
While, as already observed, there is a general allegation in
the bill that Kinloch Creek was a navigable stream, and was
capable of navigation by vessels in the Santee River and thence
into the ocean, there is no allegation that it was ever used for
that purpose, and the opinion of the court was that it certainly
was not a navigable water of the United States, or a public
highway under the laws of South Carolina. But, however this
may be, we. are of opinion that the State had full power, in
the absence of legislation by Congress, to authorize the construction of this dam for the avowed purposes of this act.
2. The second assignment of error, that the plaintiff was
deprived of his property without compensation, and hence
without due process of law, is also unsound.
The only allegation of the bill in that connection is that the
construction of the dam was not only a destruction of plaintiff's right of navigation and of his access to his lands through
Kinloch Creek, but has caused the water to fall back to some
extent on the plantation on Minim Creek, just opposite the
mouth of Kinloch, so as to compel the plaintiff to raise his
dikes. We do not think the overflow to the minor extent indicated constitutes. a taking of property within the meaning of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

the law, when the damage can be prevented by raising the
banks, or that if the damage stated did in fact result, that it
would justify the interposition of a court of equity.
The question whether the overflow of lands copstitutes "a
taking" within the constitutional provision has been discussed
in several cases in this court. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166; Transportation Company v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635;
Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179
U. S. 141; Atwater v. Trustees, 124 N. Y. 602.
A recent case is that of United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445, wherein it was held that where the Government had placed
dams and other obstructions in the Savannah River in such
manner as to hinder its natural flow, and to raise the water so
as to overflow plaintiff's lands and to cause a total destruction
of their value, the proceeding must be regarded as an actual
appropriation of the land, and created an obligation upon the
Government to make compensation for the land. The case
was distinguished from that of Mills v. United States, 46 Fed.
Rep. 738, wherein the damage consisted in obliging the plaintiff to raise the levees around his rice fields to prevent the
flooding of the fields in high water. "Obviously," said the
court, in commenting upon that case, "there was no taking of
plaintiff's lands, but simply an injury which bould be remedied
at an expense, as alleged, of $10,000, and the action was one to
recover the amount of this consequential injury. The court
rightfully held that it could not be sustained." A still more
recent case is that of Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217,
in which it is held that danages to lands by flooding as a result of revetments erected by the United States along the
banks of the Mississippi River to prevent erosion of the
banks from natural causes, are consequential and do not constitute a taking of the lands flooded within the meaning of
the Constitution.
We think the rule to 'be gathered from these cases is that
where there is a practical destruction, or material impairment
of the value .of plaintiff's lands, there is a taking, which de-

MANIGAULT v. SPRINGS.
199' U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mands compensation, but otherwise where as in this case
plaintiff is merely put to some extra expense in warding off
the consequences o the overflow.
The damage claimed by the plaintiff in the interruption of
access to his lands and the impairment of his right to navigate
the creek does not demand separate consideration. We have
repeatedly held that where the Government of the United
States has, for the purposes of improving the navigation of a
river, erected piers or other structures by which access to
plaintiff's land is rendered more difficult, there is no claim for
compensation. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141. We see no reason why the same
principle should not apply to cases where the state legislature,
exercising its police power, directs a certain dam to be built,
and thereby incidentally impairs access to lands above the
dam. In both cases the sovereign is exercising its constitutional right-in one case in improving the navigation of the
river, and in the other in draining its low lands. and thereby
enhancing their value for agricultural purposes.
It is suggested that the agreement of 1903 created an easement of access to plaintiff's land, Ladd v. Boston, 151 Massachusetts, 585; Hogan v. Barry, 143 Massachusetts, 538, and
that the statute of South Carolina must be construed as overriding private rights of property, and not merely as putting
an end to the rights of the public, and as giving to plaintiff a
claim for damages for the taking of that easement. But it
does not necessarily follow that an injuniction should issue.
Apparently this covenant did not apply to the millsite, since
this was purchased after the covenant was made, but, however this may be, a court of equity is not bound to enjoin a
public work authorized by statute, until compensation is paid,
where no property is directly appropriated. This is particularly true where the damage is difficult of ascertainment at
the time and a reasonable provision is made by the law for
compensation. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; Backus v.
Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557; Cherokee Nation v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of tne Court.

199 U. S.

Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641; Beasley v. Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co., 191 U. S.492; Haverhill Bridge Proprietorsv.
Essex County Commissioners, 103 Massachusetts, 120; Parker
v. Catholic Bishop, 146 Illinois, 158. The state cases are
numerous on this point.
In view of the incidental, character of the damage probably
resulting to plaintiff's land from the erection of this dam, and
the careful provision of the act that the defendants shall be
liable for such damage, we do not think, at least in the absence
of an allegation that the defendants are financially irresponsible,
that a court of equity would be authorized to enjoin the erection until the damages, which, if they exist at all, must be
very difficult of ascertainment, shall be paid.
3. It is also assigned as error that the act of 1903 is obnoxious to the following provisions of the constitution of
South Carolina, Article III, section 34, that "The General
Assembly of the State shall not enact local or special laws
concerning any of the following subjects, or for any of the
following purposes, to wit: . . . II. To lay out, open,
alter or work roads or highways."
As the case comes from, a Federal court. the auestion is
properly before us.
Admitting that, for the purposes of transit and travel, a
river may be considered a highway-and that seems to have
.been adjudged by the Supreme Court of South Carolina, Heyward v. Chisholm, 11 Rich. 253,-we think that, in connection
with the words "To lay out, open, alter or work roads," the
word "highway" is used in its ordinary sense, and as an
equivalent to a public road. The power given by this section
is evidently inapplicable to water highways, which are neither
'laid out, opened, altered or worked in the ordinary sense of
,these words.
4. It is also urged that the act was 'passed without the
formality required by the Revised Statutes of South Carolina
of 1893, in which it is declared that no bill for the granting
of any privilege or immunity, or for any other private purpose

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

I

Syllabus.

whatsoever, shall be introduced, or entertained in either house
of the General Assembly except by petition, to be signed by
the persons desiring such privilege, of which sixty days' notice
shall be given to all persons interested, and be published in
the newspaper having the largest circulation in the county
where such privilege is to be enjoyed, once a week for three
weeks, etc.
As this is not a constitutional provision, but a general law
enacted by the legislature, it may be repealed, amended or
disregarded by the legislature which enacted it. This law was
doubtless intended as a guide to persons desiring to petition
the legislature for special privileges, and it would be a good
answer to any petition for the granting of svich privileges that
the required notice had not been given; but it is not binding
upon any subsequent legislature, nor does a. non-compliance
with it impair or nullify the provisions of an act passed without the requirement of such notice.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

PETRI v. F. E. CREELMAN LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 49.

Argued November 7, 1005,-DLcded December 4, 1905.

Where it is plainly apparent on the record that the only matters tried and decided in the Circuit Court were demurrers to pleas to the jurisdiction, and
the petition upon which the writ ot error was allowed asked only for the review of the judgment which decided that the court had no jurisdiction, no
bill of exceptions or formal certificate in respect to the matter decided is
required and the writ of error will not be dismissed because authenticated

