OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

199 U. S.

McGUIRE v. BLOUNT.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 6. Submitted January 18, 1906, restored to docket January 30, 1906, orally argued
October 12 and 13, 190.-Decided October 30, 1966.
While courts will guard against any attempt of an interested judge to force
himself upon litigants, if the record does not clearly establish the disqualification relied upon this court will not disturb the judgment on that
ground.
The plaintiff in ejectment must recover on the strength of his own title,
which must be sufficiently established to warrant a verdict in his favor,
and in the absence of that open, notorious and continuous adverse possession necessary to prove a title by prescription, he may be defeated if the
defendant is not a mere trespasser or interloper and shows an outstanding
and subsisting title in a stranger.
Spanish documents coming from official custody and bearing on their face
every evidence of age and authenticity and which otherwise are entitled
to admissibility as ancient documents will not be excluded because subjected to various changes of possession during the transition of the Government of Florida from Spain to the United States and during the Civil
War, where it does not appear that they were ever out of the hands of a
proper custodian, that the originals were lost, or there had been any
fraudulent substitution.
Proceedings had many years ago to convey title under Spanish laws kre not
to be scrutinized with a view to discovering defects, and, if sufficient under
the Spanish system, they will not be upset on technical objections to their
regularity even if such objections might have been successfully urged in
the forum where, and at the time when, the proceedings were had.
Where the court would be bound to set a verdict aside for want of testimony
to support it, it maykdirect a finding in the first instance and not await
the enforcement of its view by granting a new trial.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin Micou, with whom Mr. Hilary A. Herbert,
Mr. E. T. Davis and Mr. Simeon S. Belden were on the brief
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William A. Blount in propria persona, and for other respondents, and with whom Mr. A. C. Blount, Jr., was on the

brief.

McGUIRE v. BLOUNT.
199 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mu. JUSTiCE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This casewas begun in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida to recover in ejectment
certain lands described in the declaration. The defendants
answered, and issues were joined as to the right of possession of
the lands in question.
Upon the trial, after the testimony was submitted and 'the
cause argued, the court instructed the jury to find for the defendants. Upon writ of error this judgment was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 121 Fed. Rep. 1020.
The plaintiffs, when the case was called for trial, filed a written motion or petition, challenging the right of the presiding
judge to hear the case, and praying that he "recuse" himself.
The petition was denied and the judge presided at the trial of
the case. The ground of the petition for recusation was that
the wife of the judge had acquired an interest in the property
which was the subject matter of the litigation. The petition
was not sworn to, and while a statement was made of the desire
of the plaintiffs to offer testimony in support thereof, the names
of witnesses were not furnished, no affidavits were filed, and no
definite statement made of what witnesses would say if permitted to testify. The judge overruled this motion, stating
that his wife had no interest in the property, and with a view
to convey an interest the vendor had tendered a quitclaim deed
to his wife, which had been declined, and no delivery ever made
thereof or title vested in her. Later the judge placed on file
an affidavit of a real estate agent, stating substantially the same
facts.
While the courts cannot too carefully guard against any attempt of an interested judge to force himself upon litigating
parties, and should scrupulously maintain the right of every
litigant to an impartial and disinterested tribunal for the determination of his rights, we find in this record nothing establishing or offering to establish in any legitimate way the disqualification relied upon because of a pecuniary interest in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

controversy resulting from his wife's alleged ownership of a
part of the land in question.
The petitioners, who were plaintiffs in the original case,
sought to recover the tract of land as the heirs of one Gabriel
Rivas. The tract originally owned by him consisted of about
three hundred "arpents" of land near the city of Pensacola,
Florida.
The defendants at the trial undertook to defeat the plaintiffs'
right of recovery, not by establishing a perfect title in themselves, but relied upon showing the divestiture of the plaintiffs'
title as heirs of Gabriel Rivas. It is elementary law that the
plaintiff in ejectment must recover upon the strength of his
own title, which must be sufficiently established to warrant a
verdict in his favor. McNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352, 362;
Watts v. Lindsey, 7 Wheat. 158.
A defendant in ejectment, who is not a mere trespasser or
interloper, may show an outstanding and subsisting title' in a
stranger to defeat the plaintiff's right of recovery. Love v.
Simms, 9 Wheat. 515; Smith v. McCann, 24 How'. 398; King v.
Mullins, 171 U. S. 404, 437.
Relying on this right, the defendants sought to show, by the
production. of certain ancient documents, bound together, styled
a protocol, that Gabriel Rivas' will had been established by
proceedings had during the Spanish control of Florida, which
showed that Rivas, who had received the lands in controversy
by grant of November 10, 1806, from Morales, intendant, etc.,
of Spain, had died on April 28, 1808, his will being probated by
certain proceedings approved by the governor of Florida on
May 2, 1808. In this protocol proceedings are shown for the
sale of the three hundred (300) arpents of lands, which belonged
to Rivas, resulting in a sale to one Gregario Caro, which sale
purports to have been approved by the civil and military governor of West Florida. These original documents, evidencing
the probate of the will of Rivas and the sale of the lands, including those in controversy, were presented to this court, having
been admitted in testimony at the trial against the objections of

McGUIRE v. BLOUNT.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs under the stipulation that they came from the custody
of the surveyor general of the United States, keeper of the archives. Many objections are urged to the authenticity and
admissibility of these documents as well as to the regularity of
the proceedings under the Spanish law. The production of the
originals of these documents has given the court an opportunity to inspect them. They bear upon their face every evidence
of age and authenticity. There is nothing about them to suggest that they have been forged or tampered with. They present an honest as well as ancient appearance and come from
official custody. To such public and proprietary records the
courts have applied the rules of admissibility governing ancient
documents. 3 Wigmore Evid. sec. 2145, and notes. With
reference to such documents and records it is only necessary to
show that they are of the age of thirty years and come from a
natural and reasonable custody; from a place where they might
reasonably be expected to be found. 3 Wigmore, sees. 2138
and 2139. While the testimony tends to show that these documents were subjected to various changes of possession during
the transition of the government of Florida from Spain to the
United States and upon the evacuation of Pensacola during the
civil war, there is nothing to establish that they were ever out
of the hands of a proper custodian. Nor is there proof to show
that the originals were lost, or any evidence of a fraudulent
substitution of a made-up record in the interest of parties to be
benefited thereby.
In view of the frequency with which these proceedings have
been given express or tacit recognition in subsequent official
investigations and conveyances of the lands, corroborating the
inference of genuineness to be gathered from the appearance
and history of these documents, and the possession of the lands
conveyed, we have no question that the court properly admitted
them in evidence.
Admitting the correctness of this ruling, the inquiry follows,
Did the judicial sale operate to divest the Rivas heirs of title to
the lands? The lands were purchased at the sale on October 20,
VOL. cxcIx-I 0

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

1817, by one Gregario Caro. The sale to Caro was duly approved and confirmed on October 21, 1817. Caro conveyed to
Fitzsimmons, Smythe and Chebeaux on October 22, 1817.
The sale in the judicial proceeding was recited in this deed,
which was "passed" or approved by Masot, civil and military
governor of West Florida.
Various technical objections have been urged as to the regularity of the proceedings. Some of these might have possibly
availed had they been urged as objections to their regularity in
the forum where they were had. But it is to be remembered
that we are here dealing with proceedings had eighty-five years
ago, under a foreign system of laws, by which it was undertaken
to convey title to the premises. Such proceedings are not to
be scrutinized with a view to discovering defects. They were
sufficient in the view of those who undertook to pass title to the
lands under the Spanish .system, and 'our courts should have
neither the right nor the disposition to upset such titles by a
nice examination of the regularity of the proceedings. Every
presumption is in favor of the authority and authenticity of
such proceedings. Strother v. Lucas, -12 Pet. 410, 438. If this
were not so great confusion and uncertainty of titles would
arise, especially when title depends upon the action of early
colonial governors undertaking to exercise the sovereign power
which they represented. Such authority is presumed to be
legitimate and regularly exercised. United States v. Arredondo,
6 Pet. 691, 727. Moreover, it appears that sale of the land
has been made under the title conveyed by the proceedings
and the conveyance to Gregario Caro, and the sale has been subsequently held sufficient to convey the title by the. commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of May 8, 1822, for
ascertaining titles to lands within the Territory of Florida.. The
report of the commissioners was subsequently ratified and confirmed by act of Congress of April 22, 1826. 4 Stat. 156.
While this action of the commissioners and of Congress may
not have concluded others claiming the property, it was based
upon the judicial proceedings evidenced by the protocol and is

McGUIRE v. BLOUNT.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

strong evidence of their authenticity and regularity. Those
claiming in the chain of title from this conveyance have made
sale of many pieces of the property, various conveyances have
recited the proceedings under the will of Rivas and the conveyance to Caro, and to upset them and declare them of no effect would be to unseat many titles to real estate, conveyances
which have stood for years without question. We have no
hesitation in reaching a conclusion, under the facts shown in
this record, that title to the lands of Gabriel Rivas, under whom
the plaintiffs in ejectment claim title as heirs, was divestedby
the proceedings had under the Spanish authorities in Florida,
and the conveyance of the lands therein to Caro, from whom by
other conveyances many persons have acquired title to the land
in controversy.
Nor are we more impressed by the claim that the plaintiffs
were in adverse and continuous possession of the property so as
to acquire title by prescription. The alleged possession of the
plaintiffs has not been of that character which could ripen into
a prescriptive title. The alleged agent of the plaintiffs may
have had some occupation of a part of the territory, not embracing the lots in controversy, and it appears that he obtained
the payment of the rent from certain tenants of a land company
known as the Pensacola City Company, which derived title in
the chain of conveyances running back to Gregario Caro. But
it also appears that this agent for the heirs of Rivas was engaged
in looking after the lands for the land company, for a time at
least, and that he purchased the outstanding title of one Chebeaux, who also derived title under Caro. The plaintiffs certainly did not establish or introduce testimony fairly tending
to establish that open, notorious, continuous, adverse possession
which gives a title by prescription. While the defendants below
did not show complete title in themselves, they were not mere
interlopers or trespassers, but were claiming the lands under
deeds, and were entitled to shomwas a defense in ejectmeint an
outstanding title in another. It is strinuously urged that,
whatever the merits of the controversy, there was sufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

proof to require a trial judge to submit the case to a jury, but
no rule is better established in this court than that which permits a presiding judge to direct a verdict in favor of one of the
parties when the testimony and all the inferences which the
jury could justifiably draw therefrom would be insufficient to
support a different verdict. It is clear that where the court
would be bound to set aside a verdict for want of testimony to
support it, it may direct a finding in the first instance and not
await the enforcement of its view by granting a new trial.
Elliott v. Chicago, M. & St. P. R'y Co., 150 U. S. 245; Union
Pacific R'y. Co. v. McDonald, 152 U. S. 262; Anderson County
Commrs. v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227; Delaware, L. & W. R. R. v.
Converse, 139 U. S. 469.
This view of the case warranted an instruction directing a
verdict at the trial in favor of the defendants, and renders it
unnecessary to consider the other errors alleged to have been
committed at the trial.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

GUTHRIE v. HARKNESS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No.9. Submitted, April 6,1905; ordered for oral argument, May 8, 1905; argued October 16,1905.-Decided October 30, 1905.

States have no power to enact legislation contravening Federal laws for the
control of national banks, but such banks are, for actions against them
at law or in equity, deemed citizens of the States in which they are located,
and the Federal courts have such jurisdiction only as they have in cases
between individual citizens of the same States.
The shareholder has a common law right, for proper purposes and under
reas6nable regulations as to time and place, to inspect the books of the
corporation of which he is a member.
The possibility of the abuse of a legal right affords no ground for its denial,
and while an examination of the books of a corporation should not be
granted for speculative or improper purposes, it should not be denied
when asked for legitimate purposes.

