OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

cause, except on proof of dual assessment, or of payment of
the taxes for which the property was sold prior to the date
of sale, unless the proceeding to annul is instituted
within three years from the adoption of this constitution, as
to sales already made.
.
" Constitution 1898, p. 61.
The record showed that defendants and their authors had
been, since 1882, in quiet, peaceable possession of the property
in question under a tax title, the validity of which had not
been impeached by any direct proceeding; that more than
three years had elapsed before the institution of the present
action since the adoption of the constitution (and more than
that since the passage of the act of February 10, 1897, and the
issue of the patent, November 22, 1897), and that at any time
within such three years plaintiff or its authors might have
instituted suit against defendants to annul the sale.
And the decision of the state Supreme Court that, in these
circumstances, article 233 made good defendants' title rested
on a ground independent of the act of 1897, and involved no
Federal question.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 84.

Argued October 13, 16, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905.

The power of taxation is exercised upon the assumption of an equivalent
rendered in the protection of tle property and person of he taxpayer,
and if such equivalent cannot possibly be rendered because the property
taxed is wholly beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing power the taxation
thereof within the domicil of the owner amounts to a taking of property
without due process of law.
While there may be individual cases where the weight of the tax neces-

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. 5:

Statement of the Case.

sarily falls unequally on account of special circumstances the general
rule'is that in classifying property for taxation, some benefit to the
property taxed is a controlling consideration, and a plain abuse of the
power in this respect may justify judicial interference.
The proper use of a legal fiction is to prevent injustice and the maxim
mobilia sequuntur personam may only be resorted to when convenience
and justice so require. That doctrine does not apply to tangible personal property permanently located in another State where it is employed and protected, acquires a situs and is subject to be there taxed
irrespective of the-domicil of the owner; and an attempt on th4 part of
the State in which the owner is domiciled to tax such property amounts
to a deprivation of property without due process of law within the piltview 6f the Fourteenth Amendment.
So held in regaid to the taxation of cars owned by a transit refrigerating
company and which were permanently employed without the .tate in
which the company was domiciled.

procepeding was begun by a statement filed by the
revenue agent of the Commonwealth in the Jefferson County
Court, praying that certain personal property 'belonging to
the plaintiff in error be assessed for taxation for state, county
and municipal taxes, and be also adjudged to pay a penalty
of twenty per cent on the aggregate amount of .the tax.
To this statement the Transit Company filed certain demurrers and answers, upon which, and upon'the deposition of
the controller of the company in St. Louis, Missouri, the case
went to a hearing, and resulted in a finding of facts that the
Transit Company was the owner of two thousand cars in September, 1897, 1898, 1899 and 1900, to which years the recovery
was limited, of the value of $200 each; that its cars were employed by the companyby renting thegin to shippers, who took
possession of them from time to time. at Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
and used them for the carriage of freight in the 'United States,
Canada and Mexico, the company being paid by the railroads
in proportion to the mileage made over their lines; that the
correct method of ascertaining the number of cars which should
be assessed for taxation was to ascertain and list such a proportion of its cars as, under a system of averages upon their
gross earnings, were shown to be used in the State of Kentucky,
during the fiscal year, the court finding by this method that
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
A.rgument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S.

there were subject to assessment in Kentucky twenty-eight
cars for the year 1897, twenty-nine for the year 1898, forty for
the year 1899, and sixty-seven for 1900.
The court also found that the cars other than those mentioned were not liable to assessment.
The order of the County Court was affirmed by the Circuit
Court, and an appeal taken to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, which reversed the judgment of the court below, and
found that the company was liable to taxation upon its entire
number of two thousand cars, and directed the court below to
enter judgment against it for the taxes appropriate to this
number. 80 S.W. Rep. 490.
To review this judgment this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. William H. Field and Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey for
plaintiff inerror:
Section 4020, Kentucky Statutes, as applied in this case
violates the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The legislature of Kentucky had no power to authorize the
assessment for taxation of tangible personal property which
has acquired a taxable situs outside the territorial limits of
the State and in other jurisdictions.
The growth of the country has produced properties which
lie partly in one and partly in another sovereignty and it is
competent, in ascertaining the value of such property for
taxation, to consider the value of the whole 'as affecting the
value of each part. West. Un."Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S.
1; Pittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Ry. -v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439.
Property also which, while not connected into -one whole as
a railroad may be considered by the union of its rails, or a
telegraph line by the union of its wires, may yet, through a
unity of use, take a character similar to a physical unity. In
such cases a State, in valuing that part within the sovereignty,
may take into consideration the value of the whole. Adams
Exp. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.194; Adams Exp. Co. v. Indiana,
165 U. S. 194; Adams Exp. Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S.172.

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plantiff in Error.

So also as to vessels plying the ocean or rivers. In Hays v.
Pacific Mail, 17 How. 596; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471;
St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196; Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia,
198 U. S. 299, the tax was held valid or invalid in accordance
with the determination of the actual situs. So also in reference
to ordinary personal property. In State Tax on Foreign-held
Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, the State could tax bonds of Pennsylvania
corporations held by non-residents of Pennsylvania. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.212, held that this decision has been
cut down to the precise point that the bonds could not be taxed
because they were held out of the State. And see as to the
rigiht of States to tax personal property in the State notwithstanding the fact that the owner is not in the State. Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 524; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188
U. S.93; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Pittsburg Coal Co.
v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S.309;
Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 145.
It is impossible to ascertain how many cars constantly
moving are in any State on any named day and a State has a
right to devise a fair method of ascertaining the average number without regard to what is the particular car and to tax
the average number of cars in the State although the owner
may be a non-resident corporation. Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.22; Am. Refrigerator Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S.
70; Union Refrigerator Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149.
These cases establish that personal property capable of acquiring a situs separate from the domicil of the owner can be
taxed where it has acquired such situs and that the rule of
mobilia sequuntur personam is a fiction which must give way
to facts, and has been broken down upon that side. See also
D., L. & W. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S.341.
The right. to tax personalty as well as realty rests upon the
fact that such personalty as well as realty is situated within
the territorial jurisdiction of the sovereignty levying the tax.
The domicil of the owner is an immaterial circumstance in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plai-'tiff in Error.

199 U. S.

case of personal as well as of real property and property of
the character sought to be reached in this case is capable of
acquiring and does acquire a situs in every sovereignty in
which it is used.
Either personal property may be taxed both by the State
in which its owner resides and by the State in which it has its
situs, or alone by the State in which it has its situs. The ai'
sence of the owner does not exclude power to tax, and the
absence of the property excludes the power to tax, in other
words, that actual situs is as essential an element of the power
to tax in the case of personal property as in the case of real
property. Revenue statutes of a State can have no extraterritorial effect and cannot affect property, the taxable situs
of which is elsewhere. The cars of this plaintiff in error have
a taxable situs outside of Kentucky, and this court has upheld
their taxation elsewhere. Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S.
149.
It is thus established beyond question that these cars of the
plaintiff in error actually acquire a situs of their own, distinct
from the domicil of their owner, beyond the territorial limits
of the State of Kentucky, and that they are subject to taxation
by those jurisdictions in which they may be found. 1 Cooley,
Taxation, 3. ed., 84.
"Taxation and protection are.reciprocal," and in the foundation of the Government's right to tax the property of its citizens
there lies the corresponding duty upon the Government to protect that property. 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 2, 22, 27;
Rorer on Interstate Law, 204; State v. Fdlkenbridge, 3 Green
(N. J.), 320; Wilkey v. City of Pekin, 19 Illinois, 160; New
Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 310; People v. Commissioner, 35
N. Y. 441; Pullman v. Twombley, 29 Fed. Rep. 658; Baldwin
y. Shine, 84 Kentucky, 502.
This being a fundamental principle of taxation, a State which
assumes the right to tax property that is situated beyond its
limits iannot perform the corresponding duty to protect that
property. As the property is protected by the State wherein

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

it is located, in return for that protection there arises to that
State the right of taxation. A State which can afford no protection to property, because the property is not within its
imits, has, in reason, no right to exercise the power of taxation,
for there is no consideration therefor. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 394; D., L. & W. v. Pennsylvania,198 U. S.341.
Mr. Henry L. Stone, with whom Mr. Samuel B. Kirby' and
M3.. Robert W. Bingham were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
Plaintiff in error is liable to taxation in the place of its
donricil, on all of its tangible personal property.
The general assembly of the State of Kentucky had power
and jurisdiction to provide that the personal property of all
residents of that State, or of corporations organized under the
laws of that State, -whether in or out of that State, should be
taxed in that State. 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 86; Commonwealth v. Hays, 2 B. Mon. 1; Barret v. Henderson, 4 Bush.
255; act of 1852, 2 Stant. Rev. Stat. Kentucky, 253; act of
1886, §§ 3, 12, art. I, Gen'l Stat. Kentucky, 1887, pp. 1035,
1038.
Where one is taxed for his personalty at the place of domicil,
it is in general immaterial that some or even the whole of it
is at the time out of the State. Cooley on Tax., 3d ed., 644,
citing Boyd v. Selma, 96 Alabama, 150; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss,
100 U. S.491; Goldgart v. People, 106 Illinois, 25; Foresman
v. Byrns, 68 Indiana, 247; Lose v. State, 72 Indiana, 285;
Griffith v. Watson, 19 Kansas, 23; Commonwealth v. Hays, 8
B. Mon. 1; Frothingham v. Snow, 175 Massachusetts, 59;
Horne v. Green, 52 Mississippi, 452.
The proper place for the taxation of a corporation in respect
to its personalty is the place of its principal office, unless some
other rule is prescribed by statute. 25 Am. & Eng. Ency. of
Law, 152, title "Taxation;" Burroughs on Tax., 186; Pullman
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 36.
Double taxation in the same State not forbidden by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

state constitution may be valid. Bank v. Pierce Co., 20
Washington, 675; State v. Branin, 23 N. J. L. 484; People v.
Roberts, 32 App. Div. N. Y. 113; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117
U. S. 136; Bank v. Coleman, 135 N. Y. 231.
Taxation is not double unless it bears upon the same property, within the same jurisdiction. Bradley v. Bauder (Ohio),
19 Am. L. Reg. (N. S.) 774. It is not double taxation when
the same property is taxed for the same year in two different
States or .axing jurisdictions, where each has a right to
lay taxes thereon. Grigsby Construction Co. v. Freeman, 108
Louisiana, 435.
The legislature, following the adoption of the present constitution of the State of Kentucky, by the enactment of the
revenue law of November 11, 1892, which contained section 4020, endeavored to reach all property that could be
lawfully made subject to taxation in that State.
In the absence of a statute a State cannot tax property
such as that of the plaintiff in error, used as it is, passing into
or through a State, and acquiring no permanent situs therein.
Indiana v. Pullman Car Co., 16 Fed. Rep. 193; Pullman
Co. v. Nolan, 22 Fed. Rep. 276; Irwin v. New Orleans, St. L.
& C. R. Co., 94 Illinois, 105; Tax Court v. Pullman Co., 50
Maryland, 452. In some States statutes to that effect have
been declared unconstitutional. State v. Stephens, 146 Missouri,
662.
It is only by virtue of a local statute that the taxation of a
proportion of such property on the basis of mileage or gross
earnings can be sustained in a State other than that of the
domicil of the owner. Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141
U. S. 18, 36; American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174
U. S. 70, 82; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177
U. S. 149.
No such statute has been enacted in Kentucky. No method
has been devised for the assessment of a portion of the tangible
property, consisting of cars passing over railroad lines into and
through that State and acquiring no permanent situs, on the

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

basis of mileage or gross earnings, either by the Railroad
Commission, Board of Valuation and Assessment, or the county
assessor.
Plaintiff in error did not show that it had been taxed on
cars in other States. It should not be allowed to shelter itself
under the plea that it is in the power of other States and
countries to tax its cars on the basis of mileage or gross earnings, without showing that power has been exercised by legislation in such States and countries, respectively, and that it
-has paid taxes thereunder.
The right to tax the movable personal or tangible property
of the plaintiff in error is not based on the principle that the
laws of the State of the domicil of plaintiff in error protect
such property, but on the solid ground that the laws of that
State protect such domestic corporation, the person of the
owner of such property, and, as a consideration for such protection, that State is entitled to tax all of its personal property,
because it is a creature of the laws of that State. Norfolk &
Western v. Board of Public Works, 97 Virginia, 23; Commonwealth v. Dredging Co., 122 Pa. St. 386; Swift's Estate, 137
N. Y. 77; Leonard v. New Bedford, 16 Gray, 292; Baltimore v.
Railroad Co., 50 Maryland, 274; Baltimore v. Northern Central,
50 Maryland, 417.
after making the foregoing statement,.
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

In this case the question is directly presented whether a
corporation organized under the laws of Kentucky is subject
to taxation upon its tangible personal property, permanently
located in other States, and employed there in the prosecution
of its business. Such taxation is charged to be a violation of
the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Section 4020 of the Kentucky statutes, under which this
assessment was made, provides that "All real and personal
estate within this State, and all personal estate of persons re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court,

199 U. P

siding in this State, and of all corporations organized under
the laws of this State, whether the property be in or uut of this
State, .
shall be subject to taxation, unless the same
be exempt from1 taxation by the ConstitutiOn, and shall be
assessed at its fair caqh value, estimated at the price it would
bring at a fair voluntary sale."
That the property taxed is within this description is beyond.
controversy. The constitutionality of the section was attacked not only upon the ground that it, denied, to the Transit
Company due process of law, but also the equal protection of
the laws, in the fact that railroad companies were only taxed
upon the value of their rolling stock used within the State,
which was determined bv the proportion which the number of
miles of the railroad in the State bears to. the whole number of
miles operated by the company.
Thf power of taxation, indispensable to the existence of every
civilized government, is exercised upon the assumption of ad'
equivalent -rendered to the taxpayer in the protection of his
person an'd property, in adding to the value of such property,
or in the creation and maintenance of public -conveniences in
which he shares, such, f t instance, as roads, bridges, sidewalks,
pavements, and schools for the education of his children. If
,the taxing power be in no position to render these services, or
otherwise to benefit the person or property iaxed, and such
property be wholly within the taxing power of another State,
to which it may be said to owe an allegiance and to which it
looks for protection, the taxation of such property within the
domicil of the owner partakes rather of the nature of an extortion than a tax, and has been repeatedly held by this court
to be beyond the power of the legislature and a taking of property without due process of law. Railroad Company v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; State Tax on Foreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall.
300; Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall. 490, 499;
Delaware &c. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341, 358.
In Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, it was held,
after full consideration, that the taking of private, property

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without compensation was a denial of due process within the
Fourteenth Amendment. See also Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97, 102; Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 164
U. S. 403, 417; Mount Hope Cemetery. v. Boston, 158 Massachusetts, 509, 519.
Most modern legislation upon this subject has been directed
(1) to the requirement that every citizen shall disclose the
amount of his property subject to taxation and shall contribute
in proportion to such amount; and (2) to the voidance of
double taxation. As said by Adam Smith in his "Wealth of
Nations," Book V., Ch. 2, Pt. 2, "the subjects of every State
ought to contribute towards the support of the Government as
nearly as possible in proportion to their respective abilities;
that is, in proportion to the revenue which they respectively
enjoy under the protection of the State. The expense of Government to the individuals of a great nation is like the expense
of management to the joint tenants of a great estate, who are
all obliged to contribute in proportion to their respective interest in the estate. In the observation or neglect of this maxim
consists what is called equality or inequality of taxation."
But notwithstanding the rule of uniformity lying at the basis
of every just syAtem of taxation, there are doubtless many individual cases where the weight of a tax falls unequally upon
the owners of the property taxed. This is almost unavoidable
under every system of direct taxation. But the tax is not
rendered illegal by such discrimination. Thus every citizen
is bound to pay his proportion of a school tax, though he have
no children; of a police tax, though he have no buildings or
personal property to be guarded; or of a road tax, though he
never use the road. In other words, a general tax cannot be
dissected to show that, as to certain constituent parts, the
taxpayer receives no benefit. Even in case of special assessments imposed for the improvement of property within qertain
limits, the fact that it is extremely doubtful whether aparticular lot can receive any benefit from the improvement does
not invalidate the tax with respect to such lot. Kelly v. Pitts-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

burgh, 104 U. S. 78; Amesbury Nail Factory Co. v. Weed, 17
Massachusetts, 53; Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264; Louisville &c.
R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S. 430. Subject to
these individual exceptions, the rule is that in classifying property for taxation some benefit to the property taxed is a controlling consideration, and a plain abuse of this power will
sometimes justify a judicial interfereiice. Norwood v. Baker,
172 U. S. 269. It is often said protection and payment of
taxes are correlative obligations..
It is also essential to the validity of a tax that the property
shall be within the territorial jurisdiction of the taxing power.
Not only is the operation of state laws limited to persons and'
property within the boundaries of the State, but property
which is wholly and exclusively within the jurisdiction of another State, receives none of the protection for which the tax
is supposed to be the compensation. This rule receives its
most familiar illustration in the cases of land which, to be taxable, must be within the limits of the State. Indeed, we
know of no case where a legislature has assumed to impose a
tax upon land within the jurisdiction of another State, much
less where such action has been defended by any court. It is
said by this court in the Foreign-heldBond case, 15 Wall. 300,
319, that no adjudication should be necessary to establish so
obvious a proposition as that property lying beyond the jurisdiction of a State is not a subject upon which her taxing power
can be legitimately exercised.
The argument against the taxability of land within the jurisdiction of another State applies *ith equal cogency to tangible
personal property beyond the jurisdiction. It is noi only beyond the sovereignty of the taxing State, but does not and
cannot receive protection under its laws. True, a resident
owner may receive an income from such property, but the
same may be said of real estate within a foreign jurisdiction.
Whatever be the rights of the State with respect to the taxation of such income, it is clearly beyond its power to tax the
land from which the income is derived. As we said in Louis-

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

viUle &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 396: "While
the mode, form and extent of taxation are, speaking generally,
limited only by the wisdom of the legislature, that power is
limited by principle inhering in the very nature of constitu,tional Government, namely, that the taxation imposed must
have relation to a subject within the jurisdiction of the taxing Government." See also McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 429; Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596, 599; St.
Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, 429, 431; Morgan v. Parham,
16 Wall. 471, 476.
Respecting this, there is an obvious distinction between the
tangible and intangible property, in the fact that the latter is
held secretly; that there is no method by which its existence
or ownership can be ascertained in the State of its situs, except
perhaps in the case of mortgages or shares of stock. So if the
owner be discovered, there is no way by which he can be reached
by process in a State other than that of his domicil, or the collection of the tax otherwise enforced. In this class of cases
the tendency of modern authorities is to apply the maxim
mobilia sequuntur personam, and to hold that the property may
be taxed at the domicil of the owner as the real situs of the
debt, and also, more particularly in the case of mortgages, in
the State where the property is retained. Such has been the
repeated rulings of this court. Tappan v. Merchants' National
Bank, 19 Wall. 490; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491; Bonaparte v. Tax Court, 104 U. S. 592; Sturges V. Carter, 114 U. S.
511; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Blaclkstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189.
If this occasionally results in double taxation, it much oftener
happens that this class of property escapes altogether. In the
case of intangible property, the law does not look for absolute
equality, but to the much more practical consideration of collecting the tax upon such property, either in the State of the
domicil or the situs. Of course, we do not enter into a consideration of the question, so much discussed by political economists,
of the double taxation involved in taxing the property from

OCTOBER TERM, 19Um.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

which these securities arise, and also the burdens upon such
property, such as mortgages, shares of stock and the like-the
securities themselves.
The arguments in favor of the taxation of intangible property
at the domicil of the owner have no application to tangible
property. The fact that such property is visible, easily found
and difficult to conceal, and the tax readily collectible, is so
cogent an argument for its taxation at its situs, that of late
there is a general consensus of opinion that it is taxable in the
State where it is permanently located and employed *andwhere
it receives its entire protection, irrespective of the domicil of
the owner. We have, ourselves, held in a number of cases
that such property permanently located in a State other than
that of its owner is taxable there. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5;
American Refrigerator Transit Company v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70;
Pittsburg Coal Company v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Old Dominion
Steamship Company v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299. We have also
held that, if a corporation be engaged in running railroad cars
into, through and out of the State, and having at all times a
large number of cars within the State, it may be taxed by taking as the basis of assessment such proportion of its capital
stock as the number of miles of railroad over which its cars are
run within the State bears to the whole number of miles in all
the States over which its cars are run. Pullman's Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. . 18.
There are doubtless cases in the state reports announcing
the principle that the ancient maxim of mobilia sequuntur personam still applies to personal property, and that it may be
taxed at the domicil of the owner, but upon examination they
all or nearly all relate to intangible property, such as stocks,
bonds, notes and other choses in action. We are cited to none
applying this rule to tangible property, and after a careful
examination have not been able to find any wherein the ques-

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion is squarely presented, unless it be that of Wheaton v.
Mickel, 63 N. J. Law, 525 where a resident of New Jersey was
taxed for certain coastwise and seagoing vessels located in
Pennsylvania. It did not appear, however, that they were
permanently located there. The case turned upon the con-,
struction of a state statute, and the question of constitutionality
was not raised. If there are any other cases holding that the
maxim applies to tangible personal property, they are wholly
exceptional, and were decided at a time when personal property
was comparatively of small amount, and consisted principally
of stocks in trade, horses, cattle, vehicles and vessels engaged
in navigation. But in view of the enormous increase of such
property since the introduction of railways and the growth of
manufactures, the tendency has been in recent years to treat
it as having a situs of its own for the purpose of taxation, and
correlatively to exempt at the domicil of its owner. The cases
in the state reports upon this subject, usually turn upon the
construction of local statutes granting or withholding the
right to tax extra-territorial property, and do not involve the
constitutional principle here invoked. Many of them, such,
for instance, as Blood v. Sayre, 17 Vermont 609; Preston v.
Boston, 12 Pickering, 7; Pease v. Whitney, 8 Massachusetts 93;
Gray v. Kettel, 12 Massachusetts, 161, turn upon the taxability
of property where the owner is located in one, and the property
in another, of two jurisdictions within the same State. sometimes even involving double taxation, and are not in point
here.
One of the most valuable of the state cases is that of Hoyt
v. Commissioners of Taxes, 23 N. Y. 224, where, under the New
York statute, it was held that the tangible property of a resident actually situated in another State or country was not to
be included in the assessment against him. The statute declared that "all lands and all personal estate within this State"
were liable for taxation, and it was said in a most instructive
opinion by Chief Justice Comstock that the language could not
be obscured by the introduction of a legal fiction about the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

situs of personal estate.

199 U. S.

It was said that this fiction involved

the necessary consequence that "goods and chattels actually
within this State are not here in any legal sense, or for any
legal purpose, if the owner resides abroad;" and that the maxim
mobilia sequuntur personam may only be resorted to when convenience and justice so require. The proper use of legal fiction
is to prevent injustice, according to the maxim "in fictione
juris semper wquitas existat." See Eidman v. Martinez, 184
U. S. 578; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 206. "No fiction," says Blackstone, "shall extend to work an injury; its
proper operation being to'prevent a mischief or remedy an inconvenience, which might result from a general rule of law."
The opinion argues with great force against the injustice of
taxing extra-territorial property, when it is also taxable in the
State where it is located. Similar cases to the same effect are
P~ople v. Smith, 88 N. Y. 576; City of New Albany v. Meekin,
3 Indiana, 481; Wilkey v. City of Pekin, 19 Illinois,160; Johnson
v. Lexington, 14 B. Monroe, 521; Catlin v. Hull, 21 Vermont,
152; Nashua Bank v. Nashua, 46 N. H. 389.
In Weaver's Estate v. State, 110 Iowa, 328, it was held by the
Supreme Court of Iowa that a herd of cattle within the State of
Missouri, belonging to a resident of Iowa, was not subject to
an inheritance tax upon his decease. In Commonwealth v.
American Dredging Company, 122 Penna. St. 386, it was held
that a Pennsylvania corporation was taxable in respect to
certain dredges and other similar vessels which were built,
but not permanently retained outside of the State. It was
said that the non-taxability of tangible personal property
located permanently outside of the State was not "because of
the technical principle that the situs of personal property is
where the domicil of the owner is found. This rule is doubtless true as to intangible property such as bonds, mortgages
and other evidences of debt. But the better opinion seems to
be that it does not hold in the case of visible tangible personal
property permanently located in another State. In such cases
it is taxable within the jurisdiction where found and is exempt

UNION TRANSIT CO. v. KENTUCKY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at the domicil of the owner." The property in that case, however, was held not to be permanently outside of the State, and
therefore not exempt from taxation. The rule, however,
seems to be well settled in Pennsylvania that so much of the
tangible property of a corporation as is situated in another
State, and there employed in its corporate business, is not taxable in Pennsylvania. Commonwealth v. Montgomery &c.
Mining Co., 5 Pa. County Courts Rep. 89; Commonwealth v.
,Railroad Co., 145 Pa. St. 96; Commonweqlth v. Westinghouse
Mfg. Co., 151 Pa. St. 265; Commonwealth v. Standard Oil Co.,
101 Pa. St. 119. The rule is the same in New York. Pacific
Steamship Company v. Commissioners, 46 How. Pr. 315.
But there are two recent cases in this court which we think
completely cover the question under consideration and require
the reversal of the judgment of the state court. The first of
these is that of the Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188
U. S. 385. That was an action to recover certain takes imposed upon the corporate franchise of the defendant company,
which was organized to establish and maintain a ferry between
Kentucky and Indiana. The defendant was also licensed by
the State of Indiana. We held that the fact that such franchise had been granted by the Commonwealth 'f, Kentucky
did not bring within the jurisdiction of Kentucky for th6 purpose of taxation the franchise granted to the same company
by Indiana, and which we held to be an incorporeal hereditament derived from and having its legal situs in that State. It
was adjudged that such taxation amounted to a deprivation
of property without due process of Jaw, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, as much so as if the State taxed the
land owned by that company; and that the officers of the State
had exceedd their power in taxing the whole franchise without making a deduction for that obtained from Indiana, the
two being distinct, "although the enjoyment of both are essential to a complete ferry right f6r the transportation of persons
and property across the river both ways."
The other and more recent case is that of the Delaware &c.
VOL. cxcix-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U._. 341. That was an
assessment upon the -capital sto6k of the railroad company,
wherein it was contended that the assessor should have deducted from the value of such stock certain coal mined in Pennsylvania and owned by it, but stored in New York, there
awaiting sale, and beyond the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth at the time appraisement was made. This coal was
taxable, and in fact was taxed in the State where it rested for
the purposes of sale at the time when the appraisement in
question was made. Both this court and the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania had held that a tax on the corporate stock is
a tax on the assets of the corporation issuing such stock. The
two courts agreed in the general proposition that tangible
property permanently outside of the State, and having no
situs within the State, could not be .taxed. But they differed
upon the question whether the coal involved was permanently
outside of the State. In delivering the opinion it was said:
"However temporary the stay of the coal might be in the particular foreign States where it was resting at the time of the
appraisement, it was definitely and forever beyond the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. And it was within the jurisdiction
of the foreign States for purposes of taxation, and in truth, it
was there taxed. We regard this tax as in substance and in
fact, though not in form, a tax specifically levied upon the
property of the corporation, and part of that property is outside and beyond the jurisdiction of the State which thus assumes
to tax it." The decision in that case was really broader than
the exigencies of the case under consideration required, as the
tax was not upon the personal property itself but upon the
capital stock of a Pennsylvania corporation, a part of which
stock was represented by the coal, the value of which was held
should have been deducted.
The adoption of a general rule that tangible personal property in other States may be taxed at the domicil of the owner
involves possibilities of an extremely serious character. Not
only would it authorize the taxation of furniture and other

UNION TRANSIT CO.
199 U. S. MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and

n.

KENTUCKY.

the CHIEF JUSTICE,

dissenting.

property kept at country houses in other States or even in
foreign countries, of stocks of goods and merchandise kept at
branch establishments when already taxed at the State of their
situs, but of that enormous mass of personal property belonging to railways and other corporatiotis which might be taxed
in the State where they are incorporated, though their charters
contemplated the construction and operation of roads wholly
outside the State, and sometimes across the continent, and
when in no other particular they are subject to its laws and
Ientitled
to its protection. The propriety of- such incorporations, where ho business is done within the State, is open to
grave doubt, but it is possible that legislation alone can furnish
a remedy.
Our conclusion upon this branch of the case renders it unnecessary to decide the second question, viz: WhetheT the
Transit Company was denied the equal protection of the laws.
It is unnecessary to say that. this case does not involve the
question of the taxation of intangible personal propqty, or of
inheritance or succession taxes, or of qtestions arLing between
different municipalities, or taxing districts within the same
State, which are controlled by different considerations.
We are of opinion that the cars in question, so far as they
were located and employed in other States than Kentucky,
were not subject to the tacing power of that Commonwealth,
and that the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
M. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.
It seems to me that the result reached
is
a desirable one, but I hardly underprobably
by the court
stand-how it can be deduced from the Fourteenth Amendment, and as the Chief Justice feels the same difficulty, I think
it proper to say that my doubt has not been removed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES:

