ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

vestigate for himself, and of non-responsibility for mistakes,
would require an independent investigation of a fact which the
Government had left in no doubt. We think the Court of
Claims correctly allowed this item.
3. As to the compensation for the so-called "foot s6rvice,"
for carrying the mails up and down the steps at the elevated
railroad stations, the delivery of the mail at the foot of the
steps would not have been sufficient, and the contractor agreed
to deliver the mail into the post offices, mail stations and cars.
The statement of facts shows that the preceding contractor had
delivered 'the mail on the platform of the stations at the door
of the cars. We think the contract was not exclusively for
wagon service, but, reasonably construed, required the delivery
of the mail into the elevated stations in such wise as to be
placed in the cars, and consequently required it to be carried
upstairs without extra allowance of pay. We find no error in
disallowing this claim for extra compensation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

ROGERS v. PECK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
No. 368.

Argued November 6,1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

The Governor of Vermont has ample power to .grant reprieves to persons
sentenced to death for murder.
It is only where fundamental rights, specially secured by the Federal
Constitution, are invaded that the Federal courts will .interfere with a
State in the administration of its law for the prosecution of crime, and it
will not be presumed that if the freedom of a person properly convicted
of murder and sentenced to death, is improperly restricted that the
state authorities will not afford the necessary relief.
Federal courts will not, by writs of habeas corpus, reverse the proceedings
of state court! while acting within their jurisdiction inder statutes which

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

do not conflict with the Federal Constitution, and the decision of the
state court that it is not necessary for the court to refix the day for execution of a person already sentenced by the court and reprieved by the
Governor, where the reprieve definitely sets the day, is one wholly within
state practice and is not controlled by Federal Constitution or laws.
Due process of law, guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, does not
require the State to adopt a particular form of procedure, so long as the
accused has had sufficient notice and adequate opportunity to defend
himself in the prosecution, and the State may determine, free from
Federal interference or control, in what courts crime may be prosecuted
and by what courts the prosecutions may be reviewed.
Statutes should be given a reasonable construction with a view to make
effectual the legislative intent; and the granting by the Governor of a
State of a reprieve to a person sentenced to death in order that an appeal
may be heard in this court, from an order of the District Court dismissing a petition in habeas corpus proceeilings, is not such an interference
by state authorities in a proceeding in the Federal courts in violation
of § 766, Rev. Stat., as will make the sitbsequent confinement and
execution of the prisoner a deprivation of liberty or life without due
process of law.

THE appellant, Mary Mabel Rogers, having been convicted
and sentenced in the county court of Bennington in the State
of Vermont of the crime of murder in the first degree, filed
her petition on June 19, 1905, for a writ of habeas corpus 9gainst
the sheriff and superintendent of the state prison, in the District Court of the United States for the District of Vermont.
The petition, having been heard, was denied on June 22, 1905.
From that order an appeal was taken to this court.
The conviction of appellant was had at the December term,
1903, of the Bennington County Court, and she was sentenced
to be confined at hard labor in the state prison at Winsor until
the third day of November, 1904, and on and after that day
to be kept in solitary confinement until February 3, 1905, on
which day she should suffer the penalty of death by hanging.
On the first day of February, 1905, the Governor of the State
of Vermont reprieved the execution of sentence until June 2,
1905. On April 29, 1905, the appellant presented a petition
for a new trial to two judges of the Supreme Court of Vermont.
On May 5, 1905, the judges made an orler allowing the petition for new trial to be filed, and fixed May 10 for the hearing

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 V. S.

Argument for Appellant.

thereof. After hearing before the Supreme Court, sitting at
Montpelier, Washington County, on May 30 an order was made
dismissing the petition and refusing the new trial. Rogers v.
State, 77 Vermont 454. On June 1, 1905, the execution of sentence was further reprieved by the. Governor until June 23,
1905. Thereupon appellant filed her petition in the Federal
Court for. the writ of habeas ,corpus, which was dismissed, as
heretofore stated. On the date of the dismissal of her petition
(June 22, 1905), the Governor further reprieved the execution
of the sentence until, December 8, 1905. The appeal to this
court was allowed on June 22, 1905. The petitioner (appellant) averred that, by the various proceedings in the state
courts and her incarceration in the prison in solitary confinement, she has been restrained of her liberty and is about to
be executed without due process of law, guaranteed for her
protection by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. T. L. Jeffords and Mr. T. W. Moloney, with whom Mr.
F. M. Butler was on the brief, for appellant:
As to solitary confinement:
Whenever a citizen is denied a right guaranteed by the
Constitution, or subjected to a penalty forbidden by it, the
Federal courts may grant relief. Medley's Case, 134 U. S.
160; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
As to time of execution under §§ 1997-1999, state statutes,
the court should have appointed a'time for the execution after
the reprieve and failing to do, 'subsequent proceedings are
without due process of law. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516.
A Federal court has jurisdiction to discharge from custody
of state officials any person restrained of liberty in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. Minnesota v. Brundage, 188 U. S. 499; Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S 184; Leeper
v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
This is a case of peculiar urgency as the error is being com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee,

199 U. c.

mitted since judgment was rendered and error is not assigned
to the court but habeas proceedings are resorted to to reach
state officers acting improperly. Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S.
284; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101; Light Co. v. Newport,
151 U. S. 527; Pepke v. Cronan, 155 U. S. 100; Re Nagle, 135
U. S. 1; Re Loney, 134 U. S. 372.
While the Constitution neither grants nor forbids the Governor of a State the right to stay execution of a sentence, as
held in Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138, it does forbid
the Governor from executing a person without a valid sentence of a court.
The court in which the trial was had and the one in which
the sentence was renewed were not constituted according to
the state constitution, §§ 989-993, 1007-1012. State statutes
and the statute establishing those courts are unconstitutional.
Const., Vermont, ch. 2, p. 4; State v. Peterson, 41 Vermont, 515.
Courts illegally constituted, whose judgments and sentences
are void, do not furnish the citizen with due legal process.
Rogers v. Alabama, 195 U. S. 257. The person convicted could
not waive any of her rights in a capital case. People v. Barberi,
149 N. Y. 256.
The petitioner is improperly detained; the reprieve of the
Governor since the commencement of these proceedings is an
unlawful interference therewith under § 756 Rev. Stat. and
the detention and sentence thereunder are void and illegal.
Mr. Clarke C. Fitts, Attorney General of the State of Vermont, for appellee:
As to power of the Governor to grant reprieves see § 11, ch. 2,
Const., Vermont, and amendments.
There is no statute of the State relating to the subject. An
averment that appellant is detained in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States, and is restrained in
violation of the Constitution of the United States is merely an
averment of a conclusion of law and not of fact, and is not
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction. Sawyer v. Piper, 189

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

U. S. 154; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Craemer v.
Washington, 168 U. S. 124; E-x parte Cuddy, 131 U. S. 280;
Kohl v. Lehlback, 160 U. S. 293.
The granting of a reprieve in Vermont, is an executive function. It is favor to the prisoner. In re Cross, 146 U. S.. 277.
The Federal Constitution neither grants nor forbids to the
Governor of a State the right to stay the execution of a sentence. Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 141. "
The exercise of the executive power in granting a commutation, respite, or reprieve not being in any sense a judicial proceeding, notice is not a matter of right. It rests wholly within
the discretion of the power granting the favor. Holmes v.
Jennison, 14 Pet. 598, opinion of Catron, J.
Notice is not necessary. The authority of the Governor to
fix a certain date for the execution to take place is an incident
to the power to grant reprieves. New Jersey v. Heller, 63
N. J. L. 105.
The reprieve is not a new sentence, and the execution under
it is not by way of a new sentence, but by reason of the expiration of a temporary suspension of the original sentence. E.x
parte Fleming, 60 Mississippi, 910.
There are no decisions of the courts of Vermont upon this
question, but long continued practice of the executive depar tment of the state government has established this course of
procedure. It was last exercised, we believe, by Governor Proctor, in the case of Phair ii 1879, and the executive records show
numerous instances of reprieves for a short length of time to
expire sooner than the end of the next session of assembly.
As to the failure, if any, of the state Supreme Court to appoint a time for executing the sentence, that is a matter of
state procedure. . Lambert 'V. Barrett, 159 U. S.663; Brown v.
New.Jersey, 175 U. S. 174; Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S. 57;
Louisville & Nashville v..,chmidt, 177 U. S. 230.
Any question relating to procedure in the state court cannot
be raised by habeas corpus. A writ of error is the proper ilemedy to review judgments and practice of state courts. In re

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

199 U. S.

Frederich, 149 U. S. 70, 78; Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S.
184; In re Schneider, 148 U. S. 162; In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 479.
As to appellant's complaint that her rights under the Constitution of the United States have been infringed because she
has "been denied the right of appeal for a correction of errors
of the trial court." As there is'no Supreme Court of the State
of Vermont to which she has the right to appeal for a correction
of the errors which she alleges occurred on her trial in County
Court, the contention does not involve a Federal question.
See cases cited supra and Porter v. Foley, 24 How. 415; Tuttle
v. Railroad Co., 168 U. S. 131.
But the point is not well taken in fact.
A State may provide one judicial system for one county and
another for an adjoining county, so long as it does not abridge
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
nor deprive any person of his rights without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws in the same county. Missouri v. Lewis,
101 U. S. 33.
The manner of appellant's confinement is not a Federal question nor is it before this court. It is not the duty of this court
to consider questions not raised by the appellant in her petition
for a writ. The statute requires her to fully set forth the facts
concerning her detention. Rev. Stat. § 754; Kohl v. Lehlback,
160 U. S.296; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.241; Craemer v. Washington, 168 U. S. 124.
There is no definition of the term "solitary confinement" in
the Vermont law, or in the decisions of the Vermont courts.
Medley's Case, 134 U. S.160, relates to an ex post facto law and
does not apply to this case, and see McElvaine v. Brush, 142
U. S.155.
In such a case as this the infliction of solitary confinement
by the second sentence is not in itself a distinct and separate
punishment. Murphy v. Massachusetts, 177 U. S. 155.
The reprieve contained no order as to the manner of confinement. Neither the constitution nor the statute of Vermont

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

make any regulation in such a case. If, then, the superintendent of the prison held her in solitary confinement, which was
unlawful, that restraint was not an act of law, but his illegal
act, and the appellant's rights would be against him. This
court has nothing to do with the wrongs which may have been
inflicted by an individual upon the appellant. It is only to
inquire into what the State has done. Murphy v. MassachuSetts, supra; People v. Trezza, 128 N. Y. 536.
Appellant raised no Federal qtiestion in her trial, made no
motion in the state Supreme Court for a stay of execution nor
to be re-sentenced, or sought relief in the state court for the
alleged wrong she claims to be suffering, by being held under the Governor's reprieve. She should have first gone there
for protection. Cases cited supra and Pepke v. Cronan, 155
U. S.100.
Under the writ of habeas corpus, the court can exercise no
appellate jurisdiction over the proceedings of the trial court
or courts of the State, nor review their conclusions of law or
fact and pronounce them erroneous. See also In re Frederich,
149 U. S.70, 78; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.371; Ex parte
Curtis, 106 U. S.371; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.651; Ex
parte Wilson, 114 U. S.417; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.241;
Stevens v. Fuller, 136 U. S.468.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

For the reversal of the judgment and order of the District
Court of the United States, discharging the writ and remanding her to the custody of the Vermont authorities, appellant
relies upon the following specifications of error:
"First. Because the petitioner was and is deprived of her
liberty by the State, and subjected to the punishment of solitary confinement without any statute authorizing such punishment, and without aliy sentence of any court directing such
punishment, and therefore without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Coirt.

199 U. S.

"Second. Because the Supreme Court of Vermont, having
taken jurisdiction of the petition for a new trial, and having
failed to comply with the requirements of law in respect of
ordering a stay of execution and fixing the time for the execution of the petitioner, has failed to fix a day for the execution,
and the Governor of Vermont has no right or authority to
fix such a day, and the petitioner is being held to be executed
in accordance with a precept not authorized by law, and which
is not in and of itself due process of law.
"Third. Because the State of Verniont, having failed to
maintain an appellate court in the county of Bennington, as
required by its constitution, has deprived the relator of the
opportunity to be heard by a court of competent jurisdiction, and thus deprived her of due process of law.
"Fourth. Because the Governor of Vermont, having issued
his order requiring execution of the petitioner on December 8,
while proceedings were pending in the courts of the United
States for her relief on habeas corpus, said order of the Governor is to be deeined null and void, and the petitioner should
be released from custody thereunder."
We shall notice these several assignments in the order named.
As to solitary confinement of the prisoner, it is not contended
that she was not properly sentenced in this respect by the
court of original jurisdiction. The statute of the State of
Vermont (Vt. Stat. § 2007) provides:
"When execution is not to take place until after six months
from (late of sentence, the court at the same time shall sentence the respondent to hard labor in the state prison or house
of correction until, three months before the time fixed in the
sentence of death for the execution thereof, and shall also sentence him to solitary confinement in the state prison or house
of correction from the bxpiration of the sentence to hard labor
until the time of execution."
The court in sentencing the appellant to be hanged on the'
first Friday of February, 1905, in pursuance of this statute,
imposed a sentence of three months at hard labor until within

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

three months of the time fixed for the execution, and three
months of solitary confinement next before the day of execution.
The complaint in this behalf is not of a sentence alleged to
have been imposed in violation of law, but because of the manner in which the appellant has been kept in confinement in
prison after the original (lay fixed for the execution of the sentence. She alleges that she is suffering solitary confinement
without due process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. If she is held in such confinement by
the state authorities-which the record does not disclose, the
confinement shown being close rather than solitary-we are
of the opinion that no case within the Federal protection is
made. Medley's Case, 134 U. S. 160, is cited, and relied upon
by counsel. That case presented an entirely different question. It was there held that a sentence under a state law
passed after the commission of felonious homicide, affixing
the punishment of solitary confinement for a period of six
months in addition to the death penalty, was an ex post facto
law within the meaning of section 10, Article I, of the Federal
Constitution, and therefore void. In Rooney v* North Dakota,
196 U. S. 319, it was held that a statute which substituted
close confinement in the penitentiary for a period before execution longer than had theretofore been authorized for confinement in jail, was not an ex post facto law. In the present case
no sentence or law is being violated, and, assuming the appellant to be held in solitary confinement, there is nothing to prevent her having relief at the hands of the state authorities,
and nothing to show that the appellant is being deprived of
her liberty in violation of any right secured to her by the Federal Constitution.
The extent of the right of the Federal courts to interfere by
the writ of habeas corpus with the proceedings of courts and
other authorities of a State is carefully defined by statute.
When a prisoner is in jail he may be released upon habeas corpus when held in violation of his constitutional rights. Rev.
Stat. § 753. In the case before us, assuming for this purpose
VOL. CxcIx-28

OCTOBER TERIM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

that the appellant has properly been convicted and sentenced
of one f the gravest offences known to the law, she is properly
restrained of her liberty while in custody, for the purpose of
making the sentence effectual. If her custodian is improperly restricting her freedom more than is necessary or legal
under state law, there is no reason to suppose that the state
authorities will not afford the necessary relief. And certainly
there is nothing in this branch of the case to justify Federal
interference with the local authority entrusted with the keeping of the prisoner.
The reluctance with which this court will sanction Federal
interference with a State in the administration of its domestic
law for the prosecution of crime has been frequently stated in
the deliverances of the court upon the subject. It is only where
fundamental rights, specially secured by the Federal Constitution, are invaded, that such interference is warranted. Ex
parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642; In re Converse, 137 U. S. 624; Allen
v. Georgia, 166 U. S. 138; Hodgson v. Vermont, 168 U. S. 262;
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; In re. Frederich, 149
U. S. 70.
As to the second assignment of error, arising from the failure
of the Supreme Court of Vermont to grant a stay and fix a time
for execution of the sentence when it entertained and denied
the petition for a new trial, at the time of the ruling in this behalf the prisoner had been reprieved until June second. The
decision was made before that day had arrived (May 30). It
is diffiduit to perceive any good reason for requiring the court
to fix a time for sentence which was already definitely set by
the reprieve of the Governor. It was the opinion of the Supreme Court of Vermont that it was not required to do so, and
this decision cannot be reversed by Federal authority. It has
been so frequently ruled by this court, that it is scarcely neceessary to cite cases, that the e(leral courts will not by writs of
habeas corpus un(lertake to reverse the proceedings of the state
courts, while acting within their jurisdiction under statutes
which do not conflict with the Federal Constitution. In re

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Shibuya Jugiro, 140 U. S. 291; In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272.
Whether, when the Governor had issued a reprieve which
carried the date of execution beyond the time of decision in the
Supreme Court, such action rendered unnecessary the fixing
of a new day for execution, was purely a question of state practice, not controlled by the Federal Constitution or laws, and
upon which the state court had final jurisdiction. Lambert v.
Barrett, 159 U. S. 660.
As to the third assignment, that the State of Vermont had
failect to maintain an appellate court in the county of Bennington as required by its constitution, and thereby deprived the
appellant of an opportunity to be heard in review by a court
of competent jurisdictionJ the State has the right to determine
for itself the courts in which crime may be prosecuted, and
the appellate tribunals, if any, to which such causes may be
carried for review. McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687.
Due process of law, guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment,
does not require the State to adopt a particular form of. procedure, so long as it appears that the accused has had sufficient
notice of the accusation and'an adequate opportunity to defend himself in the prosecution.- Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586.
The appellant had the right, by the laws of the State, to
have a jury trial before a competent court. Upon exceptions,
duly and seasonably taken for errors of law alleged to have
occurred upon the trial, the appellant had a right to review in
the Supreme Court (Vt. Stat. § 1961), whether this court should
be held in each county or at the state capital for all the counties, is entirely a (uestion of state procedure, presenting no
Federal (uestion for review here.
The fourth assignment of error calls for the consideration
of § 766, Rev. Stat. of the United States, as amended. 27
Stat. 751. This section provides in substanc-e that any pro,
ceeding against a person imprisoned or confined or restrained

OCTOBER TERM, 1005.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

of his liberty, in any state court, or by authority of any State,
pending the proceedings or appeal in habeas corpus cases yij the
Federal courts, and until final judgmefit therein, and after final
judgment of discharge, shall be null and void. The contention
for the appellant in this behalf is that the order further staying
execution of the sentence by the Goverridr of Vermont, made
on June 22, 1905, granting a reprieve until December 8, of the
same year, was made pending the habeas corpus proceedings in
the Federal courts, and is therefore void. The order of reprieve was made on June 22, the day upon which the writ was
dismissed and appeal allowed to this court,. just after the petitioner was remanded to the custody of the state authorities and
very shortly before the appeal here was allowed... The power of
the Governor of Vermont to grant reprieves in cases of murder
is ample. Constitution of Vermont, chap. 2, § 11, Amendnient, Art. 8. And such power is neither granted nor withheld by the Federal Constitution. Storti v. Massachusetts, 183
U. S. 138.
It is perfectly apparent that it was exercised in the present
instance for the very purpose of permitting the prisoner to
appeal. to this court, and not to render ineffectual or in anywise
interfere with the jurisdiction and orders of the Federal courts.
Statutes should be given a reasonable construction with a view
to make effectual the legislative intent in their enactment.
The object of this statute is apparent. It requires the state
courts and authorities to make no order and entertain no proceeding which shall interfere with the full examination and
final judgment in a habeas corps proceeding in the Federal
courts, I, re Shibuya Jugir, 140 1'. 8. 291, and in no wise to
interfere with the judgment if it shall result in a restoration of
the petitioner's freedom when wrongfully inlprisoned or restrained. The proceedings annulled are "against the person
so imprisoned," etc. The statute aims to entirely prevent
action which shall interfere with the perfect freedom of the
Federal courts to inquire into the case and make such orders
and render such judgment as they shall see fit.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

. The reprieve granted has had the effect doubtless intended
by the chief executive of the State, to allow the cause to be
heard upon appeal in this court. To denominate such an order a proceeding against the prisoner would do violence to the
terms of .the statute and defeat, not carry out, its purpose.
We are unable to find that the appellant has sustained any
violation of rights secured by the Federal Constitution by the
proceedings of the executive or judicial departments of the
State of Vermont. The final order is affirmed, mandate to
issue at once.

SOUTH CAROLINA r. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 10.

Argued April

11, 1905.-Decided December 4, 1905.

Persons who sell liquor are not relieved from liability for the internal revenue
tax imposed by the Federal Government by the fact that they have no
interest in the profits of the business and are simply the agents of a
State which, in the exercise of its sovereign power, has taken charge of
the business' of selling intoxicating liquor. They are persons within the
meaning of sections 3140, 3232 and 3244 Rev. Stat.
The National Government is one of enumerated powers, and a power enumerated and delegated by the Constitution to Congress is comprehensive
and complete, without other limitations than those found in the Constitution itself.
To preserve the even balance between the National and state governments
and hold each in its separate sphere is the duty of all courts, and preeminently of this court.
The Constitution is a written instrument, and, as such, its meaing does
not alter. Its language, as a grant of power to the National Government, is general ana, as changes come in social and political life,
it embraces all new conditions within the scope of the powers conferred.
In interpreting the Constitution recourse mpust be had to the common law,
and also to the position of the framers of the instrument, and what they

