ROYAL

fNSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.

353

Syllabus.

199 U. S.

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 7.

Argued October 17, 18, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

The owner of an estate in Porto Rico mortgaged the property to a bank,
the mortgage being granted by notarial act describing the property and
the fruits thereof and declaring that it was all planted in cane except
certain specified parts including the sugar manufactory and that the
loan secured was to enable the borrower to develop and keep the plantation; as additional collateral the owner delivered to the bank a policy of
fire insurance on "stock of sugar and molasses deposited in the sugar
manufactory on the estate" which was not to take effect, however, until
several months thereafter; after the policy took effect and during its
life the sugar house and stock was burned; action was not brought unbil
more than fifteen but less than twenty years thereafter. Meanwhile the
bank had become bankrupt and a special master appointed with power
to collect the assets thereof. In an action by the special master on the
.policy the company denied liability and the plaintiff's capacity to sue,
also pleading prescription. The lower court permitted one of the parties
claiming an after-acquired interest in the policy antagonistic to the
plaintiff to be joined as party plaintiff. A verdict was rendered for
both against the company. In sustaining the verdict, Held, that:
Where the decree appointing a special master gave him express authority
to sue to collect all assets of the bankrupt, the fact that he was merely
designated as special master did not deprive him of the special powers
to sue conferred on him by the decree.
Under the law in force in Porto Rico the growing crop was, by operation of
law, included in the mortgage to the bank even though it had not expressly purported to embrace the fruits growing upon the mortgaged
premises.
The growing crop continued to be affected by the mortgage after its harvest
or manufacture. into sugar up to the time of its removal or warehousing.
The rights of the mortgage creditor attached to indemnity for insurance
upon the mortgaged property, including the crops, provided the -loss
occurred after the execution of the mortgage..
In countries governed by the civil law a mortgage is indivisible and where
junior incumbrances have not acquired rights necessitating a different
course a mortgagee may assert the entirety of his mortgage rights against
any or all of the property affected by the mortgage.
In the absence of express Spanish legislation affecting Porto Rico the law
-prior to the extension -of the Civil Code. thereto-in 1889 concerning.. limi-

VOL. cxcIx---23

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

tations of personal actions, is that generally prevailing under Spanish
law and in this case the twenty-year term applied and not the fifteenyear term applicable under the Civil Code after its extension to Porto
Rico.
Amendments are within tho sound discretion of the trial court and not
susceptible of review on error except for a clear abuse, and in this case
there was no such abuse nor was there any impropriety in allowing the
amendment joining the additional party plaintiff.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Wayne MacVeagh, Mr. Francis H. Dexter and Mr. John Spalding Flannery
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Fritz V. Briesen for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether a judgment upon a verdict enforcing against the
plaintiff in error a contract of fire insurance is erroneous, is
the general question for decision. The record is confused,
the pleadings involved and the errors assigned numerous.
We shall, therefore, at the outset state the contracts with
which the controversy is concerned, the pleadings and such

uncontroverted facts as are essential to be borne in mind in
order to comprehend the issues raised by the assignments of
error.
On September 15, 1884, the Royal Insurance Company
issued its fire policy in favor of An tonio Amadeo, "estate
owner of Quebrada Arenas Maunabo," to. the amount of
sixteen hundred pounds sterling, "on stock of sugar and molasses deposited in the sugar manufactory on the estate Quebrada Arenas," the risk only to begin two months and four
days thereafter, viz., on November 19, 1884, and embracing
the period between that date and November 19, 1885.
On September 19, 1884, four days after the -taking out of
the policy, Antonio Amadeo, the insured, by a notarial act
acknowledged that he had received a loan from the Caja de

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

355

Opinion of the Court.

Ahorros, a bank of Ponce, Porto Rico, amounting to $15,036.27,
which he obligated himself to repay in two instalments, due
in February and March, 1885. It was recited in the act
that the -money was lent to enable Aynadeo "to attend to the
developing and keeping of a sugar plantation by him owned."
The act also described the plantation as the estate of Que-'
brada Arenas, gave the quantity of land, which it was de-

clared was all planted in cane, except where used for pasturage and where covered by a sugar manufactory and other
appurtenant buildings. A mortgage in favor of the lender
was granted by the notarial act upon all the property described "and the fruits thereof."
On the sixth of February, 1885, the sugar manufactory on
the estate of Quebrada Arenas was burned, and there was
destroyed in the factory sugar and molasses alleged to be
equal in value to the sum of the insurance. It was shown
that some of the sugar and molasses was in hogsheads and
some was in pans and other apparatus going through the
process of manufacture.
Prior to the year 1901, in a court of the island of Porto Rico,
the Caja de Ahorros was declared a bankrupt and trustees were
appointed and took charge of its assets. In the year 1901
proceedings were begun in the United States District Court
for Porto Rico by creditors of the bankrupt against the trustees, and Robert A. Miller was appointed a special master
with power to collect the assets of the bankrupt estate. On
April 23, 1902, Miller, as special master, commenced this action on the policy. The declaration averred the appointment
of Miller and the authority given him to collect the assets of
the Caja de Ahorros. The execution of the policy of insurance and mortgage of the plantation was then recited, and
it was averred that the Caja de Ahorros as a mortgage creditor was entitled to the avails of the policy of insurance, and
therefore had a right to enforce the same.
The declaration was demurred to, first, on the ground that
Miller as special master was without authority to sue; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

second, that the action was prescribed, no reference being made
to the period of limitation relied upon. A general demurrer was also filed. The court overruled the special demurrers
and sustained the general demurrer because of the want of
precision in some of the averments of the declaration, which
was afterwards remedied by amendment.
To the declaration as amended three pleas Were tiled, the
general issue, a prescription of six years and a prescription of
fifteen years. A demurrer was sustained to the plea bf six
years, joinder was had on the general issue, and a replication
was filed setting up various acts, which it was alleged were
interruptive of the alleged bar of fifteen-year limitation. Subsequently an additional plea was filed, averring in substance
that on September 3, 1884, Antonio Amadeoby way of pledge
had assigned the policy of insurance in question to a bank
styled the Credito Mercantil, free from any claim of the Caja
de Ahorros, the alleged mortgage creditor, and that by judicial proceedings the policy had been sold and purchased by
Faid Credito Mercantil, ahd as neither the Caja de Ahorros nor
Miller were the transferaes of the Credito Mercantil, the plaintiff -was not entitled to recover. A replication was filed denying all the averments of the plea, but admitting that Antonio Amadbe, op a date not named, had deposited the policy
as collateral security with the Credito Mercantil, and that
that oorporation had, after the fire, bought in the policy at a
judicial sale by it provoked, and had subsequently transferred the policy to one Lucas Amadeo. Upon this replication issue was joined by the defendant. Subsequently the
court allowed Lucas Amadeo to become a party plaintiff and
permitted amendments to the declaration to accomplish this
result. These amendments averred the delivery of the policy, as collateral security by Antonio Amadeo to the Credito
Mercantil, the date not being given, the sale, long after the
fire, of the policy under judicial proceedings, and its purchase
by the Credito Mercantil, and the subsequent transfer thereof
by the Credito Mercantil to Lucas Amadeo. It being besides

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

357

Opinion of the Court.

alleged that by the effect of this transfer Lucas Amadeo became a part owner of the policy "subject to the mortgage of
the insured to Caja de Ahorros."
No answer was filed to
complaint.
An
exception
was, however, noted
the amended
to the action of the court in permitting Lucas Amadeo to be
joined as plaintiff.
" The cause came on for trial. After the impanelling
of a
jury the court allowed the defendant to file six additional
pleas, which were to be considered as traversed upon the record, and which were, in substance, as follows: 1st. That the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover on the policy because Antonio Amadeo in obtaining the insurance had misdescribed
the property or concealed material facts. 2d. That no recovery could be had in favor of the Caja de Ahorros or Miller, because no other person than Antonio Amadeo had any
interest in the policy by operation of law, and no other per'son had any right in the policy by a conventional assignment
from the insured, or, if there had been such an assignment,
no notice thereof had been given the company, and its consent had not been indorsed on the policy, as .required by its
terms. 3d. Because Antonio Amadeo had materially increased
the risk, without the knowledge and consent of the defendant, after the issue of the policy. 4th. That recovery could
not be had,- because the insured had not within fifteen days
after the fire furnished adequate proof of loss, as required by
the policy. 5th. That recovery could not be had, because
petroleum and other inflammable oils had been stored upon
the premises contrary to the terms of the policy. 6th. Because ihe claim made by the insured following the fire was
false and fraudulent and the fire occurred by the incendiarism of the insured.
At the trial, evidence having been admitted tending to
show the bringing by Miller, special master, of a suit in the
District Court of the United States to foreclose the mortgage
against the plantation executed by Amadeo, it was stipulated
by both parties that no sale of the plantation to enforce the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

mortgage thereon had yet been made. There was a verdict
and judgment in favor of Miller, special master, and Lucas
Amadeo, for the amount of the policy and interest.
Putting out of view for the present the question of the correctness of the action of the court in allowing Lucas Amadeo
to be made a party plaintiff, it results that the issues arising
on the trial were all embraced under the following headings:
1. Had the plaintiff capacity to sue, even if a cause. of action in favor of the Caja de Ahorros was shown by the declaration? or
2. If Miller had the capacity to sue, did the Caja de Ahorros,
as a result of the mortgage, acquire any right in or to the
avails of the policy of insurance, and if so, did such right
arise by operation of law without the existence of a transfer
by the insured of his rights under the policy and the acceptance of such transfer by the company?
3. If the right to enforce the policy obtained by operation
of law without assignment by the insured, could the Caja de
Ahorros enforce the right by suing on the policy and without
previously exhausting its remedies against the other property
embraced by the mortgage?
4. Even if the Caja de Ahorros was vested with the rights
of the insured and could exert such rights by suit on the policy without previously exhausting the other mortgaged property, had there been such misrepresentations by the insured
in taking the policy or such failure after taking it to comply
with its terms as precluded the right to recover?
5. In any event, Was the action barred by the prescription
of fifteen years?
And as the foregoing questions embrace every proposition
covered by the errors assigned, except as to the right to join
Lucas Amadeo as a party plaintiff, we come to consider the
questions in the order stated, before passing on the error alleged to have arisen from an asserted improper joinder of
parties.
First. The court found that the appointment of Miller as

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

special master gave him express authority to sue to collect
all the assets of the Caja de Ahorros. As the record of the
appointment of Miller, although introduced in evidence, does
not form a part of the bill of exceptions, we must assume that
the ruling of tile court was correct, and this being assumed it
obviously results that the court below rightly held that the
mere designation as special master did not have the effect of
depriving Miller of the substantial powers conferred upon him
by the decree of the court appointing him.
Second. The proposition that the Caja de Ahorros acquired
no right to the policy of insurance in virtue of the mortgage
involves two contentions, which require distinct consideration; the one, the proper construction of the policy and the

other the operation of the law of Porto Rico upon the policy
when properly construed. The first rests upon the assertion
that the sugar and molasses covered by the policy was a distinct lot of sugar and molasses, warehoused on the plantation at
the time of the issue of the policy, and therefore had no legal
relation to a subsequent mortgage of the plantation itself;

and the second, that in any event sugar and molasses in the
manufactory on the plantation was movable property, not
susceptible of being mortgaged under the 1aw of Porto Rico.
The policy covered a "stock of sugar and molasses deposited
in the sugar manufactory on the estate 'of Quebrada Arenas.' "
It is true that the word deposited when standing alone might

well be considered as referring to exclusively sugar and molasses then existing, and in the sugar house.

But the correct-

ness of this construction is negatived by the fact that tle risk
under the policy was not to attach at the (late of the policy,
but in two months and four (lays thereafter. When this period of the commencement of the risk is considcred in conicetion with the place at which the property insure(l was siteted,
viz., a sugar manufactory upon a sugar plantation, oil which
there was a growing crop, we think the policy must he held to
have covered sugar to come into the sugar house on the plantation as the result of the future operation of the factory. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

this conclusion is fortified by the indefinite description given
of the property insured, which was not of a given number of
commercial packages of sugar and molasses, held in a warehouse, but merely a stock of sugar and molasses, a description
embracing such stock in whatever form existing, and which
might be in the factory at the time the risk attached.
Additional force to the construction we give the policy
likewise results from the course of the trial below, since it
appears that no objection was noted to the introduction of
testimony showing that the property destroyed, for which a
claim under the policy had been made by the insured, consisted of sugar and molasses which was in the sugar house as
the result of the process of manufacture of the growing crop
therein carried on, and moreover no instruction was asked
upon the hypothesis that if the property destroyed was of that
character it was for that reason alone not covered by the insurance or embraced in the mortgage.
The policy then embracing a stock of sugar and molasses
to come into the sugar house on the plantation as the result
of the manufacture of the crop which was growing thereon
at the time the policy was issued, the question then is, Did
the mortgage creditor, in virtue of the mortgage, acquire a
right to the avails of the policy?
Undoubtedly, as a general rule under the Spanish law in
force in Porto Rico at the time of the giving of the mortgage,
only real property was the subject of mortgage. (Mortgage
Law of 1880, Art. 114; Mortgage Law of 1893, Art. 110, War
Department translation.) But by that law a mortgage extended to the "natural increase, improvements, growing crops
and rents not collected when the obligation falls due, and the
value of indemnities allowed or due the owner for insurance
on the property mortgaged or by virtue of condemnation by
right of eminent domain." (Mortgage Law of 1880, Art. 118;
Mortgage Law of 1893, Art. 110.) And the Mortgage Law
of 1880 as well as the Mortgage Law of 1893, moreover provided as follows:

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

"In accordance with the provisions of the preceding article,
the following shall be considered mortgaged together with
the estate, provided they belong to the owner of the estate,
although they are not mentioned in the contract:
"3. Crops, which at the time the obligation falls due, are
growing on the trees and plants, or have already been harvested, but not yet removed or warehoused.
"5. Indemnities awarded or due the owner of the mortgaged realty, either for the insurance thereof or for the crops,
provided the damage occurred after the creation of the mortgage, or on account of condemnation of the land by the right
of eminent domain." (Mortgage Law of 1880, Art. 119; Mortgage Law of 1893, Art. 111.)
To grasp the import of the provisions just quoted a general
understanding of the system of mortgages prevailing in the
countries governed by the civil law is necessary. By that law
the title to mortgaged property remains in the mortgagor and
the effect of the mortgage is not, therefore, to deprive the
mortgage debtor of his right to administer the property before the obligation falls due. In other words, wxhilst the mortgage dismembers the ownership by depriving the 'owner of
the right of abusus, and therefore divests him of the perfect
ownership, it leaves him the imperfect ownership, with the full
usus and fruclus of the property mortgaged. Generally, in
such countries, and by operation of law, growing crops are
included in a mortgage, yet as such crops are naturally thereafter to become movable by their harvesting as an incident
of administration and of the uss arnd fructus, the right of
the owner to realize by gathering the crops and disposing of
the same before the mortgage becomes due exists, such gathering and realizing being considered as a mobilization of the
crop, therefore taking it beyond the scope of the mortgage.
See Code Nap. Art. 2118; P. Pont, Privileges et Hypotheques,
vol. 1, p. 353, sees. 360, 362. Indeed, under the Napoleon

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Code this power of the debtor to administer the mortgaged
property by an act of administration, done without fraud and
in good faith, is, by. a writer on that code, asserted to be so
complete that his right to produce the mobilization of a crop
is deemed to arise by a mere sale of the crop as growing without any actual concurrent severance of the crop from the
realty. (Ibid. See. 363.)
It will be observed that, although, generally speaking, the
Spanish law, in force in Porto Rico conforms to the theories
just stated, it restricts the right of administration and power
to mobilize a growing crop to narrower limits than is the case
under the Code Napoleon. Thus, by the terms of paragraph
3 of the Code for Porto Rico, the power of the mortgage debtor
to administer is controlled by a provision causing crops which
are harvested at the time the mortgage falls due to remain
subject to the mortgage, despite the harvesting, provided
they have not yet been "removed or warehoused." And
it will also be observed that paragraph 5 of the same code, as
to indemnities arising from insurance on crops, further restricts the power of administration vested in the mortgagor
by declaring that, as to indemnities arising from insurance on
the crops, the right of the mortgage creditor attaches, even
although at the time of the loss the mortgage debt had not
become due, provided the damage occurred "after the -creation
of the mortgage." This meaning, plainly resulting from the
terms of paragraph 5, is also sustained, as we shall have occasion hereafter to show, by the act governing in Porto Rico
concerning the procedure for the enforcement of mortgages,
wherein the right is conferred upon the mortgage creditor to
impound the avails of insurance upon crops destroyed by fire
before the coming due of the obligation, but not collected before such maturity. In other words, the right, of the mortgage
debtor under the power of administration and by virtue of
paragraph 3, to mobilize the crop and thus remove it from the
operation of the mortgage, ceases to exist, by the very terms
of paragraph 5, upon the destruction by fire of the mortgaged

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

crop, the law treating such. destruction as irrevocably fixing
the character of the crop as immovable, and causing the indemnity as its representative to be no longer subject to mobilization.
The crop here in question was one of growing cane, whose
harvesting depended upon the treatment of the cane at the
sugar factory. It is not questioned by either party to the
record, and indeed we think it clearly results from the mortgage law to which we have referred, that the crop which is
therein subjected to the mortgage is not simply a growing
product, but the harvested crop, which in the case of growing
sugar cane necessarily includes the result of treating the cane
at the sugar house-that is, a crop of sugar and molasses.
From the text of the law we have quoted and the exposition just given of its gen~eral import, the following conclusions
result:
First. That the growing crop was, by operation of law, included in the mortgage to the Caja de Ahorros, even although
the mortgage had not, as it did, expressly purported to embrace the fruits growing upon the mortgaged property.
Second. That the grcwing crop of .cane continued to be affected by the mortgage after its harvest or manufacture into
sugar up to the time of its removal or warehousing.
Third. That the rights of the mortgage creditor attached
to indemnity for insurance upon the mortgaged property,
including the crops, provided the loss occurred after the execution of the mortgage.
Under the construction which we have given the policy of
insurance, these propositions are decisive in favor of the right
of the mortgage creditor, unless it be that the sugar and molasses in question, although it had come from the growing cant
and was at the time of the fire in the sugar house as the result
of the manufacture from such cane, or was in the process of
manufacture, was yet not subject to the rights of the mortgage
creditor, because it is to be considered as having been then
"warehoused" within the meaning of that word as employed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

in paragraph 3 of Article 119 of the law of 1880, which we
have quoted. But to so hold would be at one and the same
time to admit and to deny the rights of the mortgage creditor
to the avails of the crop and to the indemnity arising from the
insurance. This must follow, because it is impossible to conceive of the harvesting of growing sugar cane without at the
same time presupposing the existence in the sugar house of
sugar and molasses as the result of the harvesting. We construe the warehousing referred to in the provision of the mortgage law in connection with the word "removed," with which
it is associated. In other words, we construe it as relating
to a distinct act of warehousing, separate from the mere existence of the manufactured product in the sugar house wherein
it was made.
As, then, the mortgage by operation of law embraced the
crop, and as also by operation of law the mortgage creditor
was entitled to the benefits of the indemnity resulting from
the insurance, it follows that the right of the mortgage creditor
did not depend upon an assignment of the policy, and the contentions upon that subject are without merit.
The doctrine common to countries governed by the civil
law is that a mortgage is indivisible. Code Napoleon, Art. 2114;
Paul Pont, Privileges et Hypotheques, vol. 1, p. 319, par. 330
et seq. And we think it is not to be doubted that the law of
Spain, in this respect, was not different. Schmidt, Civil Law.
of Spain and Mexico, p. 180, Art. 853., The mortgage being
indivisible, the mortgage creditor had an undoubted. right
to assert the entirety of his mortgage rights against any or
all of the property affected by the mortgage.
The contention pressed at bar, that the mortgage creditor
tad no cause of action to recover the insurance money subject to his mortgage because the law gave the power to proceed to enforce the mortgage by what is known in the Spanish
law as via executiva, we think is without merit. The existence of the summary remedy does not tend to the implication
that the creditor might not, if he elected so to do, proceed

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

365

Opinion of the Court.

via ordinariato obtain judicially a decree recognizing his right
of mortgage on the insurance money and enforcing payment
of the amount.
This is illustrated by a provision (Art. 161) in the general
regulations, put in force in 1893 for the execution of the mortgage law, wherein it is provided that where an indemnity for
insurance on property covered by a mortgage becomes due in
consequence of the destruction of the property by fire, before
the maturity of the mortgage debt, the creditor has a right
to compel- the deposit of the sum of the insurance to await
the period of the maturity of the mortgage obligation. Manifestly if the mortgage creditor be endowed with this
right before his mortgage debt becomes due, the right of such
creditor to proceed separately to recover the insurance money
after his debt becomes due must obtain. This case does not
require us to pass upon, and we therefore do not decide whether,
under the Spanish law, if there was a junior incumbrancer
having some special right in or to the avails bf the insurance
money, such junior incumbrancer would be entitled to compel the mortgage creditor to exhaust the other property covered by the mortgage before attempting to irrevocably impute
or apply the proceeds of the insurance to the pro tanto extinction of the mortgage debt.
Fourth. All the questions concerning alleged misrepresentation in obtaining the policy, of misdescription of the property, of a material increase of the risk of incendiarism, and of
the failure to make the due proofs of loss required by the policy, depend for their ultimate determination upon questions
of fact, which were concluded adversely to the plaintiff in
error by the verdict of the jury. Although they are referred
to, ag they are not pressed in the brief of the plaintiff in
error, we content ourselves with saying that we think the
court, as to the matters in question, correctly applied the law
to the state of the proof.
Fifth. The fire occurred on February 6, 1885. Suit wa3
brought on April 23, 1902, and Lucas Amadeo was made a

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court,

199 U. S.

party plaintiff on May 13, 1903. In other words, even although
the cause of action on the policy only arose within a reasonable
time after the making of proofs of loss, more than fifteen years
elapsed between the arising of the cause of action and the
bringing of this suit. Both parties at bar admit that the action on the policy was personal in its nature, and barred by
the term of prescription governing actions of that character.
As we have seen, the defendant (plaintiff in error here)
specially pleaded and relied upon the prescription of fifteen
years. The applicability of that prescription is based upon
article 1964 of the civil code, which provides: "A mortgage
action prescribes after twenty years, and those which are personal and for which no special plan of prescription is fixed,
after fifteen years.
As both parties. concede that there was no special term of
prescription fixed by the civil code for an action upon an insurance policy, it follows that the right to sue on the policy
was barred by the limitation in question, if that limitation
applied. The defendants in error-the plaintiffs below-deny
its alplicability, and insist that the term of prescription was
twenty years, and, moreover, insist that, even if the fifteenyear term applied, the action was not barred, because of interruptions of the 'rescription asserted to result from the proof
as to alleged demands and acknowledgments. The trial judge,
whilst rejecting the claim of the plaintiffs as to the twentyyear prescription, and maintaining that of the defendant as
to the fifteen-year prescription, yet held the action not barred,
because of the interruptive effect which the court considered
arose from certain demands or acknowledgments, which it
was deemed were established by the proof. Before coming
to consider the alleged errors on this subject we must determine whether the time of prescription was fifteen years, as
asserted by the defendant and held by the trial court, or
twenty years as contended by the plaintiffs.
The loss under the policy occurred in 1885, and the right
of action arose, therefore, in that year. Tlge civil code was

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

not then applicable to Porto Rico, not having been extended
to that island by Royal Decree until 1889, and the claim that
the twenty-year prescription is the only controlling period is
based upon that fact. Whilst it is conceded that by the terms
of the civil code personal actions were barred by fifteen years,
the argument is that by the code actions which arose prior
to its promulgation were to be controlled by the prior law,
which, it is insisted, was twenty years. The provision of the
code relied upon to maintain this proposition is article 1939,
which reads as follows:
"Article 1939. Prescription, which began to run before the
publication of this code, shall be governed by the prior laws;
but if, after this code became operative, all the time required
in the same fpr prescription has elapsed, it shall be effectual,
even if, according to said prior laws, a longer period of time
may be required."
As the fifteen years fixed by the code for the bringing of
personal actions had not elapsed between the promulgation
of the code and the bringing of this action, it follows that the
controversy was not within the terms of the proviso, and therefore the limitation of the cause of action is to be determined,
not by the code provision fixing fifteen years, but by the prior
law. What was the term of prescription of personal actions
under the prior law is, therefore, the. question.
In the absence of express legislation concerning Porto Rico,
what was the prior law applicable to that island concerning
the limitations of personal actions, must be fixed by ascertaining the period of prescription for personal actions generally
prevailing under the Spanish law. Schmidt, Civil Law of
Spain and Mexico, p. 35. Whilst the general Spanish law,
prior to the promulgation of the civil code, is to be (lerived
from a review of the successive Spanish codes, nevertheless
the Spanish law prevailing prior to the code is- primarily to
be found in the code known as the Novisima Recopilacion.
By Law 5, Title VIII, Book 11, of the Novisima Recopilation, it appears that the term of prescription of personal ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

tions was twenty years. White, New Recopilacion, vol. 1,
p. 96. And from an edition of the Spanish Codes, with concordance and notes, published at Madrid in 1850, under the
text of the Novisima Recopilacion in question (vol. 9, p. 458),
it appears that the limitation of twenty years as to personal
actions, as expressed in the text of the Recopilacion, prevailed
as early as 1348, in the code known as the Ordenamiento de
Alcald.
Moreover, the Supreme Court of Spain has held, in repeated
decisions, that the provision found in the Novisima Recopilacion, above alluded to, was the general law of Spain on the
subject, in force prior to the adoption of the civil code, and
that by that law the limitation of personal actions was twenty
years. References to a Spanish publication, in which many
such decisions are reported, are given in the margin.1
It follows that the court below erred in applying the fifteenyear period of prescription, and that as twenty years had not
elapsed from the time the cause of action arose to the bringing of the suit on the policy, the right to sue was not barred
by limitation.
But it is insisted that, as the trial judge erred, either in admitting evidence or in the legal effect which he gave to the
evidence admitted, concerning acts which wereheld adequate
to interrupt the; course of the fifteen-year prescription, there
should be a reversal, despite the fact that it is now decided
that a longer period of prescription controlled, concerning
which the acts of interruption were wholly irrelevant, and
I Decisions of the Supreme Court of Spain, sitting at Madrid, reported
in the Jurisprudencia Civil, holding the period of prescription of twenty
years applicable to personal actions: Sentence of January 21, 1863, vol. 8,
p. 54, No. 20; Sentence of March 17, 1865, vol. 11, p. 326, No. 92; Sentence
of April 8, 1865, vol. 11, p. 469, No. 139; Sentence of June 4, 1886, vol. 60,
p. 24, No. 7a; and Sentence of October 3, 1892, vol. 72, p. 142, No. 40 of
the last mentioned Sentence. See also Sentence of March 24, 1892, vol. 71,
p. 307 (after the enactment of the code); Sentence of March 9, 1865, vol. 14,
p. 264, No. 75; Sentence of May 12, 1874, vol. 30, p. 56, No. 181; Sentence
of April 1,1884, vol. 54, p. 548, No. 137; Sentence of March 12, 1888, vol. 61,
p. 404, No. 89; and Sentence of April 19, 1901, yol. 91, p. 556, No. 105.

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

therefore not in any way prejudicial. We cannot yield our
assent to the proposition. The contention that there should
be a reversal because the defendant might have introduced
evidence at the trial in support of certain defenses set up in
its answer other than prescription, if it had not relied upon
the certainty of securing a reversal by this court of any judgment which might be obtained against it, because of what
was deemed to be the erroneous rulings as to the interruption
of the prescription, is without merit. What term of prescription was applicable to the action was a disputed question at
the trial; and we cannot admit that the defendant, by neglecting to make full defense and by speculating on the chances
of a verdict in its favor, could secure the right to a reversal
of a verdict and judgment against it because of an error of
law which in a legal sense occasioned no possible prejudice.
And equally without, merit is the contention that there would
be prejudice if there be not a reversal, because in this court,
relying upon the sufficiency of the errors assigned relating to
the action of the court concerning the proof of interruption
of the fifteen-year prescription,, there was a neglect to assign
other substantial errors, which it is asserted the trial court
committed as to the admissibility of certain evidence and the
striking out of various answers of a witness who had given tpstimony under a commission. As we are at liberty, however,
despite the absence of an assignment of error on the subject,
to consider a plain error arising on the record, we have given.,
our attention to the subjects referred to, and content ourselves
with saying that we think they are devoid of merii,.
It remains only to consider the error alleged to have been
committed by the trial court in allowing Lucas Amadeo to
be made a party plaintiff.
The elementary rule is that amendnients are within the
sound discretion of the trial court, and7.are not susceptible of
review on error, except for a clear abuse. Gormley v. Bunyan, 138 U. S. 623.
The objection made at the trial to the amendment was that
voL. cxcix-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

it substituted a new party and an entirely new cause of action.
That there was no clear abuse in this case we think results
from article 156 of the Law of Civil Procedure for Cuba and
Porto Rico, War Department Translation of 1899, providing
as follows:
"Causes of action against several persons, or by several
persons against one, arising from the same source of title or
based upon the same cause of action, may be joined and brought
in one action."
The claims of both parties depended upon the contract of
insurance. There was no inherent antagonism between the
two claims, since the amendment making Lucas Amadeo a
party expressly alleged that his rights in and to the policy
were subordinate to thuse of Miller, special master. We consider the provision of the code of procedure above quoted as
analogous to the provision in the codes of a number of the
States of the Union, by which an action is required to be
brought in- the name of the real parties in interest, and it is
allowable to join as parties plaintiff those having an interest
in the recovery sought. Fireman's Ins. Co. v. Oregon Railroad Co., 45 Oregon, 53; Fairbanksv. San Francisco & North
Pacific Ry. Co., 115 California 579; Home Ins. Co. v. Gilman,
112 Indiana 7; Winne v. Niagara Fire Ins. Co., 91 N. Y.
185, 192; Pratt v. Radford, 52 Wisconsin 114.
The contention in the argument that the permitting of Lucas Amadeo to be joined as plaintiff was in legal effect a consolidation of pending causes, which could not be made after
answer filed, relying on article 157 of the code of civil procedure, was not made below, since the ground of objection made
at the trial was that the amendment substituted a new party
and an entirely new cause of action, not that it was merely too
late to permit the amendment.
But it is further contended that as the bill of exception
states, that no evidence was offered proving or tending to
prove any transfer, by the Credito Mercantil of the policy sued
on to Lucas Amadeo, therefore there was no proof whatever

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MILLER.
199 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

tending to establish title in Lucas Amadeo to the policy, and
hence there must be a reversal. On the state of the record,
however, this objection is not available. The amended declaration making Amadeo a party, and alleging a transfer to
him by the Credito Mercantil, was not traversed. It is argued,
however, that no express traverse was necessary, because the
plea of the general issue filed to the declaration before the allowance of the amendment must be applied to the amendment,
and, therefore, the amended declaration should be regarded as
having been traversed. Conceding, for the sake of the argument, the rule ordinarily to be as stated, and further conceding that that rule obtained under the procedure in Porto
Rico, we do not think that it is here applicable. We say this
because the record establishes that the case was tried upon the
hypothesis that the transfer to Amadeo by the Credito Mercantil was not disputed, but on the contrary was an admitted
fact in the case. Thus, when the court came to charge the
jury, it enumerated specifically various issues of fact which
they were to determine, and among those issues was not embraced any controversy whatever upon the fact of the transfer
by the Credito Mercantil to Lucas Amadeo, as alleged in the
amendment to the declaration, and no exception was taken to
the action of the court in this particular. Moreover, although
various instructions were asked to be given to the jury, on behalf of the defendant, no request was made which in any way
intimated that the defendant disputed the 'fact that Lucas
Amadeo had acquired the interest, if any, of the Credito Mcrcantil in the policy in question, as alleged in the amended declaration. Indeed, we think the record affirmatively establishes that the case was tried below upon the assumption by
all the parties that if there was a right to recover on the part
of Miller, special master, and Lucas Amadeo had properly
been joined as a party plaintiff, a joint recovery was not improper.
Judgment affirmed.

