CLARK v. ROLLER.
199 U. S.

541

Syllabus.

CLARK v. ROLLER.
ROLLER v. CLARK.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 72, 451.

Argued November 9, 10, 1905.-Decided December 4, 1905.

Semble a bill for partition cannot be made the means of trying a disputed
title.
If upon a bill of partition a defendant claims a paramount title and possession on grounds which give color to his claim and against which the
plaintiffs at least are not entitled to equitable relief, the proper course
is to suspend the bill and give the plaintiffs an opportunity to sue at law.
Mississippi-Morris v. State, 8 S. & M. 762; Hurt v. State, 25 Mississippi, 378.
Missouri-Prior to alteration effected by constitutional amendment of 1875
(as to which see State v. Simms, 71 Missouri, 538), in State v. Ross,
29 Missouri, 32; State v. Kattlemann, 35 Missouri, 105; State v. Brannon,
55 Missouri, 63.
New York-Prior to alteration effected by the Code of Procedure (as to
which see People v. Palmer, 109 N. Y. 413), in Guenther v. People, 24
N. Y. 100; People v. Dowling, 84 N. Y. 478; and see People v. Cignarale,
110 N. Y. 23, 30.
Oregon-State v. Steeves, 29 Oregon, 85.
Tennessee-Campbell v. State, 9 Yerg. 333; Slaughter v. State, 6 Humph.
410, 415.
Texas-Jones v. State, 13 Texas, 168.
Virginia-Before alteration by statute (as to which see Briggs v. Commonwealth, 82 Virginia, .554), doctrine enforced in Stuart v. Commonwealth,
28 Gratt. 950. Reinstated by later statute, as to which see Forbes
v. Commonwealth, 90 Virginia, 550, and Benton v. Commonwealth, 91
Virginia, 782.
Washington-State v. Murphy, 13 Washington, 229.
Wisconsin-State v. Martin, 30 Wisconsin, 216; State v. Hill, 30 Wisconsin,
416; State v. Belden, 33 Wisconsin, 120. (But not in cases of misdemeanors-Rasmussen v. State, 63 Wisconsin, 1.)
Georgia, owing to constitutional provisions, and by statute in the States
of Indiana, Kansas and Kentucky, when a new trial is granted on motion
of an accused he may be tried again for the greater offense of which he was
acquitted on the first trial (Morris v. State, 1 Blackf. 37; Veatch v. State,
60 Indiana, 291; State v. McCord, 8 Kansas, 232; Commonwealth v. Arnold,
3 Kentucky, 1),

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.'

199 U. S.

If a bill for partition is dismissed for laches and want of jurisdiction as
against a defendant claiming a paramount title, and afterwards the
court proceeds to decree a partition and sale, the dismissal is not a bar
to a subsequent petition of the defendant to come in and oppose the
creation of a cloud upon his title.
A decree confirming and adopting a report of commissioners recommending a conveyance of part of the land to certain of the parties and a sale
of the residue and distribution of the proceeds as thereafter ordered
when the sale was confirmed by the court, is not a final decree.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leo Simmons for appellant in No. 72 and appellee in
No. 451.
Mr. John E. Roller pro. se, with whom Mr. J. 0. B. Roller
was on the brief, for intervenor and appellee in No. 72 and for
appellant in No. 451.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill- brought by
the Clarks for partition of certain land in the'District of Columbia, and a cross appeal by Roller, to protect his rights in case
the whole record should be held to be brought up by the appeal.
A short history of the case is necessary to make the questions
intelligible. The bill was filed on November 24, 4893. On
January 23, 1894, Roller petitioned to be made a party on the
ground that he claimed the title, and two days later his petition
was granted. On February 13 he answered, setting up a tax
title in himself and the exercise of all rights of ownership and
possession for nearly half a century, and also a previous decree
between the parties. By a supplemental bill the plaintiffs alleged defects in the tax title and prayed that it might be declared void. The previous decree referred to was rendered in
an earlier suit, which was like the present, except that it made
Roller a party. In that suit Roller demurred on the grounds
of laches and that the bill ought not to be maintained until the

CLARK v. ROLLER.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs had established their title at law, and the bill 'was
dismissed as against Roller in general terms. There was testimony that the judge stated that he dismissed the bill for
laches and on the other grounds set up.
On May 5, 1896, the present bill was dismissed as to Roller,
on the grounds that, the court had no jurisdiction as against
him, that the bill was made multifarious by joining him, and
that the plaintiffs were barred from equitable relief against him
by laches. The next alay the court ordered partition and appointed commissioners. The same month Roller entered an
appeal from these decrees, which, however, was dismissed on
October 24, 1898, for failure to give security for costs. On
May 29, 1896, the commissioners made return, and on June 30,
1896, their report was confirmed. A conveyance of a part of
the property was ordered, and a sale of the rest. It was further ordered that, on a ratification of the sale by the court and
payment, the purchase money should be brought into court to
be disposed of under its direction. A sale was not advertised
until June, 1901. On July 26, 1901, Roller made a new application to come in, on the ground that the proceedings should
have stopped after the decision and decree as to him, that he
was in possession, and that the sale had not taken place, and
if it did would be a cloud upon his title. On September 9, 1901,
answers were filed to this petition, denying Roller's title and
possession, and setting up that the possession was in one of the
defendants in partition, and that the matters alleged had been
adjudicated by the decrees in the cause. On November 6, of
the same year, Roller's new petition was denied by the Supreme
Court. He appealed, and in 1902, the mandate being filed on
February 20, 1903, the decree of the Supreme Court was reversed by the Court of Appeals of the District, and the cause
was remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of the court. The opinion is reported 19 App. D. C.
539.

In that opinion it was stated that the proper course was to
suspend proceedings under the bill in order to give the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

plainants reasonable time to establish their title at law. An
application for rehearing was denied, and it was stated that the
plaintiffs virtually conceded that the decree of partition was at
least premature, but relied on the ground that it became final
at the expiration of the term at which it was rendered. The
plaintiffs, on November 27, 1903, filed a paper alleging that
they were in possession and that the matter was adjudicated
as against Roller, and Atood upon the record. Thereupon, on
January 6, 1904, a final decree was entered by the Supreme
Court, dismissing the bill without prejudice. This was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals on May 24, 1904. From the latter
decree the parties have taken the present appeals. It will be
seen from what had preceded that - the bill was dismissed because the plaintiffs, by their election of November 27, 1903,
had declined to accept the suggested suspension of the bill and
to proceed at law. The question is whether, generally, and
specially in the stage the case had reached, the condition attached to further proceeding with this cause was right.
A preliminary question is raised by the defendant Roller, who
argues that the previous decree of the Court of Appeals reversing the denial of his petition to come into the case a second
time-was a final decree and settled the merits of the case. No
doubt it did pass upon the merits as we have explained, but it
was not a final decree. It contemplated and required further
proceedings, and not until the plaintiffs had elected to stand
upon the record could it be known what those proceedings
would be. Only then was it determined that the bill should
be dismissed rather than suspended with a possibility that after
a suit at law the partition might go on.
It was adjudicated in the other suit that the plaintiffs were

not entitled to have Roller's claims disposed of summarily as
an incident to a suit for partition., and therefore they cannot
be heard to maintain inthis Suit that those claims are absurd.
Indeed, whatever may be the final result, it is obvious that
Roller shows a good deal more than a naked averment of title.
That he holds under a tax sale is not disputed, although it is

CLARK v. ROLLER.
199 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

argued that the sale wasijvoid. He kept the land fenced from
shortly after his purchase in 1887 into 1892, and he sets up that
his possession continued when the suit was brought. He paid
the taxe.s on the land, except for one year, and hp says that the
payment for that year was omitted by oversight. So far as
general principles go we certainly should not reverse the decision Qf the Court of Appeals that the petitioners ought to establish their title at law before partition should be decreed. Wilkin v. Wiikin, 1 Johns. Ch. 111. Giffard v. Williams, L. R.
5 Ch. 546. "A bill for partition cannot be made the means
of trying'a disputed title." Bolton v. Bolton, L. R. 7 Eq. 298a,
300. Potterv. Waler, 2 De G. & Sm. 410, 417.
It would seem from what we have quoted that this was pretty
nearly admitted before the Court of Appeals, but it was and is
argued that the point was not open. It is said in the first place
that when the bill was dismissed as against Roller, on May 5,
1896, that was-a final decree as to him, and that he could not
be heard later in this court. No doubt the decree was final as
to what it decided, and be is not likely to quarrel with it. But
it would- be an extraordinary result of a decision that nothing
could be done to a party's prejudice in a suit, if it were held to
preclude him from reappearing at a later stage to protest when
the court was about to cast a cloud upon his title. If later
unexpected features arose, we see nothing in the dismissal of
the bill as against Roller to prevent his again being heard.
That dismissal gave him a right to expect that a sale of property to which he was recognized as having a colorable claim
would not be ordered until the title of the plaintiffs was made
good. Even if he properly should have been allowed to remain
a party to the bill in order 'to make sure that no decree should
be ma(le prejudicial to his rights, as to which we need not express an opinion, the dismissal of him from the suit, on the
ground that no such decree could be made, cannot be turned
into a weapon against him to prevent his objecting to the decree when it is made in fact.
It is argued further that the decree of June 30, 1896, con.Vo,. cxcix--35

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

firming the commissioners' report, was final. But this cannot
be so. The set off of a parcel to certain parties was part of a
scheme of division by which other parties were to be paid in
money, and those to whom the land was set off were to receive
a small additional sum. The whole plan, therefore, was, dependent upon a sale of the remaining land,"which had not taken
place, and which'required the confirmation of the court. If the
sale produced a much smaller sum than expected, the set-off
necessarily would fall, and a new order would be required. The
whole matter was in fieri, and subject to change if for any reason it became necessary or desirable to change the plan. See
Iowa v. Illinois, 151 U. S. 238; McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio
Central Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 536; Keystone Manganese & Iron Co.
v. Martin, 132 U. S. 91. In Willard v. Willard, 145 U. S. 116,
it is true, an appeal was entertained from a general decree of
sale for partition. The question whether the decree was final
was not considered, but there there was no such element of
unc4rtainty in the scheme as in the present. Whatever the
resilt of this sale it was the proper means of division and was
to take place in any event.
3he argument took a-wider range than the matters which we
have discussed, but we deem nothing further material for the
decision of the case. The detendant Roller seeks to have us
now consider his title and declare it good. But it is obvious
that he gets all that he can hope for by his intervention when
partition is postponed to a trial at law. With regard to the
plaintiffs' contention that they are in possession, if they desire
to rest on .,that they can. If they prefer to sue and to settle the
matter, it is not likely that Roller Will deny the possession which
in this case he affirms. But to secure the plaintiffs' rights the
decree may be modified so as to allow them a reasonable time
to sue, the bill to be dismissed unless they do so, and it may be
decree that in case a suit is brought
-'vfthe
made a conditio
Roller shall admit that he is in possession as he now avers.
Decree modified and affirmed.

