OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

later roads had authority or not would not affect the title to
the land.
The land seems to have been con-eyed to the defendant in
error after the plaintiff in error had taken possession, but that
is immaterial. In the District of Columbia a conveyance by
a disseisee is valid. Matthews v. Hevner, 2 App. D. C. 349,
357; Roberts v. Cooper, 20 How. 467, 483; Peck v. Heurich, 167
U. S. 624, 629, 630. A question is raised as to improvements,
but it was not raised below and is not open here.
Judgment affirmed.

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 32.

Submitted October 30, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Where suit is brought in the district of defendant's residence by plaintiffs
who are citizens of other States than that of defendant, the Circuit Court
has jurisdiction although pliintiffs are not themselves citizens of the
same State.

THIS was an action of assumpsit brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of West
Virginia by, as described in the summons, "Francis B. Sweeney,
a resident in and citizen of the State of New York, and Halbert
J. Porterfield, a resident in and citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, partners doing business under the firm name and
style of Sweeney & Porterfield," against "Carter Oil Company,
a corporation created, organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of West Virginia, and as such a citizen
thereof," to recover damages in the sum of $20,000.
The declaration, filed May 4, 1903, followed the summons

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
199 U S.

Statement of the Case.

as to the citizenship of the parties, and contained ten special
counts, most of them laying the damages at $20,000, and the
common counts. An account stated was annexed giving
items, running from 1900 to 1901, aggregating $20,912.42.
The record discloses that on February 3, 1904, the court
entered an order overruling a motion "to dismiss this action
for the want of jurisdiction apparent upon the face of the
proceedings in this, that the plaintiffs are residents of different
States seeking to sue a defendant of another State." On
February 15, 1904, the court set aside that order, sustained
the motion to dismiss, and entered judgment for defendant.

May 10, 1904, the judge holding the Circuit Court filed a
certificate "that the judgment of dismissal made in this cause
on February 15, 1904, at the present term of this court, is
based solely on the ground that the record does not show
that the controversy is one, in my opinion, between citizens
of different States, but that it appears from the record that
one-of the plaintiffs, to wit, Francis B. Sweeney, is a resident
in and citizen of the State of New York, and that Halbert J.
Pprterfield is a resident in and citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, while the defendant is a corporation created axid
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of West
Virginia, and domiciled in the Northern District of West
Virginia, and no other ground of jurisdiction appears from the
record; and the case is dismissed only for the reason above
stated, that 'is, that the controversy is not between citizens
of different States, as is required by the Federal statutes to
confer jurisdiction on this court, but one of the plaintiffs being
a citizen of one State, to wit, the State of New York, and the
other plaintiff being a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania,
cannot, in my judgment, be joined as plaintiffs and sue in this
court, a defendant residing in the Northern District of, West
Virginia, and consequently the proper citizenship of different
States does not exist, and that the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of West Viriginia has no
jurisdiction." This writ of error was granted the same day.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199

tT. S.

Mr. V. B. Archer and Mr. W. S. Chesley for plaintiffs in
error, cited:
Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3
Cranch, 267; Removal Cases, 1.00 U. S. 457; Young v. Parker,
132 U. S. 26; Ballin v. Lehr, 24 Fed. Rep. 193; Pitkin County
Mining Co. v. Markell, 33 Fed. Rep. 386, quoting debate in
Cong. Rec., March 3, 1887, vol. 18, p. 2724; Robei-ts v. Railway Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 577; 18 Ency. P1. & Pr. 193, 195;
1 Foster's Fed. Prac., 3d ed., 76; Hooe v; Jamieson, 166 U. S.
395; Davis v. County Court, 88 Fed. Rep. 705; Jellinik V.
Copper Co., 177 U. S. 1; Iron Co. v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631;
Cotton Press Co. v. Insurance Co., 151 U. S. 368; Carter on
Jurisdiction of Federal Courts, 120; McCormick v. Walthers,
133 U. S. 41; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172.
Mr. George L. Roberts, Mr. Reese Blizzard and Mr. Charles
Gibbs Carter for defendant in error, cited:
Act of March 3, 1887, ch. 373, § 1; act of August 13, 1888,
ch. 866, § 1; act of March 3, 1891, ch. 517, §§ 4, 5, 6; Harvey v.
Richmond Railway Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 19; Miller v. Penna. R.
R. Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 289; Laskey v. Mining Co., 50 Fed.
Rep. 634; Grace v. Am. Cent. Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278; Peper v.
Fordyce, 119 U. S. 467; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.,
194 U. S. 48; Thomas v. Trustees, 195 U. S. 207; Black's Law
Dict., 1032; Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267; Hepburn v.
Elzy, 2 Cranch, 445; New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91;
Iron Company v. Stone, 121 U. S. 632; Barney v. Baltimore, 6
Wall. 280; Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Merchants v. Insurance
Company, 151 U. S. 368; Hooe v. Jamieson, 166 U. S. 395.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction
in that the controversy was not between citizens of different
States, within the meaning of the statute, because plaintiffs
were citizens of different States as between themselves, and
could not be joined in an action against a citizen of West

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
199 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

Virginia. That was the sole point determined below, and the
correctness of the conclusion is the sole question for determuination here.
Defendant does indeed argue that the judgment should be
affirmed because the declaration, though stating a sum of
money to be due plaintiffs in excess of two thousand dollars,
did not aver that this was "exclusive of interest and costs;"
and did not, aver that defendant was "a resident or inhabitant
of the Northern District of.West Virginia,' nor was that fact
"apparent from the record;" and because the citizenship of
plaintiffs and defendant was not averred with sufficient directness. None of -these points was raised below, and, as the
record stands, they call for no consideration.
The judicial power under the Constitution extends to "controversies between citizens of different States."
The first section of the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected
by that of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, provides
"that the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,
of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where
the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs,
the sum or value of two thousand dollars, . . . or in
which there shall be a controversy between citizens of different
States, in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
.
.
and
interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid,
no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts against
any person by any original process or proceeding in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, .but where the
jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence -of either the plaintiff or the
defendant;

.

.

."

The controversy here was "between citizens of different
States;" the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was founded on
diversity of citizenship; and the suit was brought in the district of the residence of the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U S.

We do not feel warranted in construing the words "controversy between' citizens of different States" to mean "controversy between citizens of the same State and citizens of
another State," and unless that is done this judgment must
be reversed.
In our opinion defendant, being a citizen of West Virginia,
and a resident of the district in which it was sued, and plaintiffs being citizens of other States than West Virginia, the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
The general subject was considered in Smith v. Lyon, 133
U. S. 315, the opinion of the court being delivered by Mr.
Justice Miller. In that opinion it is pointed out that the first
clause of the act of 1887 describes the jurisdiction common to
all the Circuit Courts of the United States as regards the
subject matter of the suit, and as regards the character of the
parties, who by reason of such character may, either as plaintiffs or defendants, sustain suits in Circuit Courts; while the
next sentence in the same section undertakes to define the
jurisdiction of each one of the several Circuit Courts of the
United States with reference to its territorial limits; and after
quoting the latter clause in full Mr. Justice Miller said:
"In the case before us, one of the plaintiffs is a citizen of
the State where the suit is brought, namely, the State of
Missouri, and the defendant is a citizen of the State of Texas.
But one of the plaintiffs is a citizen of the State of Arkansas.
The suit, so far as he is concerned, is not brought in the State
of which he is a citizen. Neither as plaintiff nor as defendant
is he a citizen of the district where the suit is brought, The
argument in support of the error assigned is that it is sufficient
if the suit is brought in a State. where one of .the defendants
or one of the plaintiffs is a citizen. This would be true if there
were but one plaintiff or one defendant. But the statute
makes no provision, in terms, for the case of two defendants
or two plaintiffs who are citizens of different States. In the
present case, there being two plaintiffs, citizens of different
States, there does not seem to be, in the language of the statute,

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

any provision that both plaintiffs may unite in one suit in a
State of which either of them is a citizen."
Referring to the language of section 11 of the judiciary
act of 1789, giving jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, "where
the suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State," the following from
the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in Strawbridge v. Curtiss,
3 Cranch, 267, was quoted: "The court understands these
expressions to mean that each distinct interest should be
represented by persons, all of whom are entitled to sue, or
may be sued, in the Federal courts. That is, that where the
interest is joint, each of the persons concerned in that interest
must be competent to sue, or liable to be sued, in those courts,"
'which construction it was said has been adhered to from that
day io this, notwithstanding the statute has been re~nacted
and recast several times since that decision. New Orleans v.
Winter, 1 Wheat. 91; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172.;
The Sewing Machine Companies, 18 Wall. 553, and Peninsular
Iron Company v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631, were cited in reiteration
of the rule that "if thereare several co-plaintiffs, the intention
of the act is that each plaintiff must be competent to sue, 'and
if there are several co-defendants, each defendant must be
liable to be sued, or the jurisdiction cannot be entertained."
And the rule was held applicable, under the act of 1887, especially in view of the fact that that act was mainly designed
to restrict the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts.
But if these citizens of Missouri and Arkansas had sued the
defendant, a citizen of Texas, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of his residence in Texas, we
perceive no reason why that court would not have had jurisdiction.
And this would be so if that defendant had Sued those
plaintiffs in his district in Texas if he there obtained service
of process upon them.
In McCormick Harvesting Machine Company v.' Walthers,
134 U. S.41, 44, we said: "The judiciary.act of 1789 provided
VOL. cxcIX-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

that no civil suit should be brought before the Circuit or
District Courts against an inhabitant of the United States by
any original process in any other district than that whereof
he was an inhabitant or in which he should be found at the
time of serving the writ, 1 Stat. 79, c. 20, § 12, and the act of
1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, § 1, contained a similar provision.
This liability of the defendant to be sued in a district where
he might be found at the time of serving process was omitted
in the act of 1887, but he still remained liable to suit in the
district of the residence of the plaintiff as well as in his own
district; and as he could not be sued anywhere else, we held
in Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, that where there were two
plaintiffs, citizens of different States, the defendant, being a
citizen of another State, could not be sued in the State of either
of the plaintiffs. Mr. Justice Miller points out, in delivering
the opinion of the court, that the evident purpose of Congress
in the act of 1887 was to restrict rather than enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, 'while,' he says, 'at the same
time a suit is permitted to be brought in any district where
either plaintiff or defendant resides.' " In that case plaintiff
was a citizen of Nebraska and brought suit in the Circuit Court
of the District of Nebraska against an Illinois corporation,
service being made on defendant's managing agent in Nebraska,
as provided b the state statute. Defendant answered and
then on leave withdrew the answer and filed a plea to the
jurisdiction. The plea was overruled, and thereupon defendant went to trial on the merits upon issue joined on that answer.
It was held that the objection to the jurisdiction, if it could
be urged at all, must be confined to want of power to entertain the suit outside of defendant's own district, and that it
was without merit.
Many decisions in respect of removal of cases of diverse
citizenship are to the same effect. Thus in The Removal Cases,
100 U. S. 457, the provision of .the act of 1875 that as to suits
"in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of
different States, . . . either party may remove said suit

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

into the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper
district," was construed to mean "that when the controversy
about which a suit in the state court is brought is between
citizens of one or more States on one side, and citizens of other
tteg on the other side, either party to the controversy may
remove the suit to the Circuit Court, without regard to the
position they occupy in the pleadings as plaintiffs or defendants. For the purposes of a removal the matter in dispute
may be ascertained, and according to the facts the parties to
the suit arranged on opposite sides of that, dispute. If in such
an arrangement it appears that those on one side, being all
citizens of different States from those on the other, desire a
removal, the suit may be removed." Young v. Parker, 132
U. S. 267; Ballin v. Lehr, 24 Fed. Rep. 193; Pitkin County
Mining Company v. Markell, 33 Fed. Ret. 386; Roberts v.
Pacific & A. Railway & Nay. Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 377.
The contention in the present case seems to be that because
defendant could not sue plaintiffs in the Circuit Court of New
York, or that of Pennsylvania, therefore plaintiffs could not
sue defendant in the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of West Virginia. But this does not follow from the terms of
the statute by which jurisdiction is conferred generally where
plaintiffs are residents and citizens of States different from
that of the residence and citizenship of defendant; and, moreover, defendant could, if it had a cause of action, have sued
plaintiffs in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of West
Virginia and proceeded with the action if they were served
with process in such district. The clause vesting jurisdiction
should not be confounded with the clause determining the
particular courts in which the jurisdiction must be exercised.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to be proceeded in
according td law.

