TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 34.

Argued October 31, 1905.-Decided Decemober 4, 1905.

Plaintiffs in error were tried for murder in the court of tirs't instance in the
Philippine Islands and were acquitted of the crime of murder and convicted'of the crime of assault and were sentenced to six months' imprisonment and a fine. . They appealed to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, which reversed that judgment and found them guilty of
homicide and sentenced them to various terms from eight to fourteen
years' imprisonment and a fine. On a writ of error seeking to review
the judgment on the ground that the action of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands amounted to putting the accused in second jeopardy,
Held, that:
There is.a vital difference between an attempt of-the Government to review
a verdict of acquittal in the court of first instance, and the action of the
accused in himself appealing from a judgment. which convicts him of
one offense while acquitting him from the higher one charged in the indictment. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, distinguished.
Where upon the indictment of a greater offense Uthe one accused is found
not guilty thereof but guilty of a lower offense included therein, and upon
appeal from that judgment a new trial is granted by the appellate court,
the accused can, on the new trial, be tried for the greater offense in the
indictment, and such new trial does not amount to placing him in'jeopardy
a second time for the same offense within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution or of the provisions in that regard in the Philippine Act of
July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691.
The appeal of the accused in such case amounts to a waiver to the plea of
second jeopardy by asking that he be again tried for the offense for which
he has once been convicted and if that request be granted he must take
the burden with the benefit and go back for the new trial upon the whole
case.
Quwre, whether the constitutional provision against second jeopardy was intended to apply to a judgment under these circumstances.
In reversing the lower court and it:elf convicting the accused on such appeal, the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands acted within its powers,
and in ordinai'y procedure in the courts of that country under the act of
July 1, 1902.
THE

plaintiffs in error were pro

"le(ed against in the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

199 U. S.

of first instance of the province of Bulacan, Philippine Islands,
upon a complaint accusing them of causing the death of Benito
Perez "with great cruelty and evident premeditation
by means of blows given with the butts of guns, they co~peraIn other words, the accused were
ting one with the other."
complained of as guilty of murder in the first degree.
They were tried in the court above mentioned and were acquitted of the crime of murder and convicted of the crime of
assault, which is included in the crime of murder charged in the
complaint, and they were therefore sentenced by the court to
suffer a penalty of six months' imprisonment and to pay a certain sum to the heirs of Perez, with subsidiary imprisonment in
case of insolvency.
All three of the accused appealed to the Supreme Court 6f
the Philippine Islands from the judgment and sentence of the
trial court. The Supreme Court, having heard the case, reversed the judgment of the court of first instance and convicted
the accused of the crime of homicide (in substance, murder in
the second degree), which is included in and is a lower degree
of the crime charged in the complaint, but is a higher degree of
crime than that of which the accused were convicted in the
court below. Two of them (Angeles and Trono) were sentenced
to fourteen years, eight months and one day, and Natividad to
imprisonment for eight years and one day, and all three to the
payment of an indemnity to the heirs of the deceased.
The accused have brought the case here by writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, for the purpose
of reviewing the judgment of that court.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton and
Mr. Maurice Kelly were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
In convicting plaintiffs in error of homicide after their acquittal thereof by the court of first instance the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands placed them for the same offense twice
in jeopardy, in violation of the Declaration of Rights in section 5
of Civil Government Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691; Kepner

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

v. United States, 195 U. S. 100; United States v. Ball, 163 U. S.
662.
Jeopardy terminates with an acquittal by the trial court, and
no further proceedings may be had in the appellate tribunal
without placing the accused under a second jeopardy. This
principle is now settled law and as such incorporated into
the criminal jurisprudence of the Philippine Islands. When the
plaintiffs in error in this case were acquitted by the court of
first instance of the charge of homicide their jeopardy was
ended, and they could not again be tried for that offense without being put twice in jeopardy therefor.
By appeal from the conviction of assault the accused did not
waive their immunity from second jeopardy on the charge of
homicide. Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574; Thompson v. Utah,
170 U. S.343, are directly opposed to Hardingv. United States,
1 Wall., Jr., 127, Fed. Cas. No. 15,301.
In practically all jurisdictions where the common law prevails it has been uniformly held that the accused cannot waive
his immunity from second jeopardy of punishment for the
-greater felony by appeal from conviction of a lesser. The question has been raised in many States where the common law prevails, and, we believe, has always been answered in the negative,
except in Ohio and South Carolina. People v. Dowling, 84
N. Y. 478; Guenther v. People, 24 N. Y. 100; People v. Cignarale, 110 N. Y. 23, 30; Stuart v. Commonwealth, 28 Gratt. 950;
State v. Martin, 30 Wisconsin, 216; State v. Hills, 30 Wisconsin, 416; State v. Belden, 33 Wisconsin, 120; Slaughter v. State,
6 Humph. 410; Brennan v. People, 15 Illinois, 511; Barnett v.
People, 54 Illinois, 325; Sipple v. People, 10 Bradwell, 144;
Morris v. State, 8 S. & M. (Miss.) 762; Johnson v. State, 29
Arkansas, 31; State v. Tweedy, 11 Iowa, 350; State v. Ross, 29
Vissouri, 32; State v. Kattleman, 35 Missouri, 105; Johnson v.
4tate, 27 Florida, 245; Golding v. State, 31 Florida, 262; Denison v. State, 31 La. Ann. 847; State v. Murphy, 13 Washingon, 229; Bell v. State, 48 Alabama, 684; Berry v. State, 65
Alabama, 163; Brown v. United States, 52 S.W. Rep. 56; Jones

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

199 U. S.

v. State, 13 Texas, 168; State v. Stevens, 29 Oregon, 85; People
v. Knapp, 26 Michigan, 112,.113; People v. Comsto.cl, 55 Michigan, 405, 407; George v.State, 59 Nebraska, 163; State v. Kettle, 2 Tyler (Vt.), 472.
In several States there are statutory provisions permitting
the retrial for .the greater offense, but no such 'tatute exists in
the Philippine Islands; see § 270, Kentucky Code of Practice;
Rev. Stat. Indiana, § 141; § 274, Code of Kansas. On the
strength of these statutes the courts of these States have held
that where a new trial is granted the' accused may be again
tried for the greater offense of which he was acquitted on the
first trial. Commonwealth v. Arnold, 83 Kentucky, 1; Morris
v. State, 1 Black, 37; Veatch v. State, 60 Indiana, 291; State v.
MeCord, 8 Kansas, 232.
In California the court held that, on new trial, the accused
cannot again be .prosecuted for ariy crime ot which he was acquitted on the first trial without violating the second-jeopardy
clause of the.state constitution. People v. Gilmore, 4 California, 376; People v. Gordon, 99 California, 227;- ee also
Waller v. State, 104 Georgia, 505. Against these cases are
some in Ohio and South Carolinh holding that the appeal
amounts to a. waiver.
These eases show that in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi,
Nebraska, New York, Oregon. Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Washington'and Wisconsin, and in the Indian Territory
the rule is the accused cannot waive his immunity from second
jeopardy, and on new trial he can only be prosecuted for the
crime of which he stood convicted. In Kentucky, Indiana and
Kansas there is a. different rule based on statutory provisions,
to the effect that "a new trial places the parties in the same
position as if no trial had been had." The California courts,
however, hold, on a similar statutory provision, that there can
be no second prosecution for the offense of which the defendant
was acquitted on first trial.* In Georgia and Missouri the common-law rule has been changed by the constitution, and in Ohio
.MissoUri,

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

and South Carolina the courts have adopted a different doctrine from that prevailing at the common law. Thus, nineteen
States and the Indian Territory have held that there can be no
waiver. In Ohio and South Carolina the courts have set aside
the common-law rule. In the five remaining States the statutory -or constitutional provisions have expressly changed the
rule where new trial is granted on defendant's motion.
The English courts have gone so far in support of the maxim
that no man ought to be twice brought in danger of his life for
one and the same crime that they have always refused a new
trial in cases of felony where the indictment is valid. Rex v.
Mawbey, 6 T. R. 619; -Regina v. Bertrand, L. R. 1 P. C. 520.
See United States v. Gibert, 2 Sumn. 19; People v. Comstock, 8
Wend. 549.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The right of trial by jury is not involved in this case, Dorr
v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, 148; nor the right of the Government in accordance with the Spanish procedure to appeal
from a judgment of acquittal. That claim of the prosecuting
authority in the Philippine Islands is adjudged to be a violation against the guarantee of second jeopardy. Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S. 100. The only issue here is a different
and distinct aspect of the second jeopardy question. The sole
question is whether the Supreme Court of the Philippines, by
adjudging the, defendants guilty of homicide upon the hearing
of their appeal from the judgment of the court of first instance
which found them guilty of assault only, placed them in jeopardy a second time for the crime of homicide, in violation of
the second jeopardy provisions of the act of July 1, 1902, 32
Stat. 692.
The right of appeal from courts of first instance to the Supreme Court or Audiencia was conferred by §43, G. 0. No. 58,
December 18, 1899, 1 Laws Phil. Com., 1087, §§ 32, 42, 43, 50.
The jurisdiction of courts of first instance to try offenses of the
character involved here is conferred by the act of the Philip-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

•199 V. S.

pine Commission of June 11, 1901, § 56, No. 136, 1 Laws Phil.

Com., 252. That act abolished, the existing Audiencia or Supreme Court, and substituted the present Supreme Court of the
Philippines, § 39, providing for appeals to that court from judgments of courts of first instance, § 18. Under these provisions
of law and the decisions thereon the Supreme Court has jurisdiction on appeal in criminal cases identical with that of the
old Audiencia, and has authority to review the whole case, both
upon the facts and the 'law. United States v. Atienza, 1 Philippine Rep. 736; United States v. Abijan, 1 Philippine Rep. 83.
These decisions are in harmony with those of this court to the
effect that in general an appeal removes a cause entirely, subjecting the law and facts to a review and retrial. United States
v. Goodwin, 7 Cr. 108; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658.
An appeal in a criminal case is not a necessary element of
due process of law, but is merely a privilege accorded the accused by statute, and any one who avails of the privilege-assents thereby to the conditions attached to it. McKane v.
Durston, 153 U. S. 684; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272; Kohl
v: Lehlback, 160 U. S. 293; Murphy v. Massachusetts, 177 U. S.
155. The state authorities are in full accord. Commonwealth
v. Arnold, 83 Kentucky, 1; Briggs v. Commonwealth, 82 Virginia, 554; State v. Hart, 33 Kansas, 218, 222; People v. Palmer,
109 N. Y. 413.
As to the right to increase the punishment, under Spanish
procedure in the Philippines, as continued by us, if an accused
were convicted by the trial court, the Audiencia upon review
might raise or lower his puhishment or acquit him altogether.
United States v. Kepner, 1 Philippine Rep. 397. If the defendants felt aggrieved at the decision, and could produce new evidence, a trial de novo before the court of first instance was open
to them under the law, § 42, G. 0. 58. By taking their appeal defendants assented to the conditions upon which it was
granted and thereby waived any right to plead the judgment
of the court of first instance as a bar to their conviction for a
higher offense by the Supreme Coi~rt upon. appeal.

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

527

Argument for the United States.

This Philippine proceeding is not a review on alleged errors
of law alone, or an ordinary motion for a new trial, which
in this country, if granted, would result in sending the case
back to another jury for a new trial. This appeal of defendants is itself a new trial on their own motion, and is properly
submitted as such to the appellate court.
When in any criminal case in which a single offense is charged
a verdict of guilty is set aside or reversed and a new trial
granted, the effect is to annul the judgment below as effectually as if there had been no trial. United States v. Keen, 26
Fed. Cas. 686; 4 Blackstone, 336, 337; Lockwood v. Jones, 7
Connecticut, 436; Zaleski v. Clark, 45 Connecticut, 397; Rassmussen v. State, 63 Wisconsin, 1; Bailey v. State, 29 Georgia,
579; Regina v. Drury, 3 Cox Crim. Cas. 544.
On the main question, whether the accused was twice in
jeopardy, the state courts are not in harmony. But the sound
view is, despite adverse authorities, that a new trial on defendant's motion wipes out the previous determination and leaves
no former jeopardy against the constitutional inhibition. United States v. Harding, 26 Fed. Cas. 131; United States v. Keen,
26 Fed. Cas. 686; People v. Palmer, 109 N. Y. 413; State v.
Bradley, 67 Vermont, 465; State v.. Behmer, 20 Ohio St. 572;
Commonwealth v. Arnold, 83 Kentucky, 1; Bailey v. State, 26
Georgia, 579; Small v. State, 63 Georgia, 386; State v. Terreso,
56 Kansas, 126; Kansas v. McCord, 8 Kansas, 232; Veatch v.
State, 60 Indiana, 291; Bohanan v. State, 18 Nebraska, 57.
The reasoning of the numerous cases which follow the contrary doctrine is not satisfactory. That there is no implied
acquittal which is conclusive is the better rule, and so far as
any rule at all has been laid down by Federal judges, they take
this ground.
If constitutions mean what is claimed, statutes providing
that a new trial annuls the previous judgment are invalid.
But Mr. Justice Miller in Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221,
held that a State could abolish by constitutional amendment
or by legislation the rule of implied acquittal of a higher offense

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion ofthe Court.

199 U. S.

upon conviction for a lower grade, and reopen the case upon a
new trial to the entire original charge. The Philippine law is
tantamount to such a statute in a State; and Justices Grier
and McLean have said or implied, in United States v. Harding
and -United States v. Keen, supra, that the Federal Constitution does not throw the protection against second jeopardy
around a criminal who seeks a new trial.
MR.JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error seek a reversal of the judgment in their
case on the ground that the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands had no power to reverse the judgment of the court of
first instance, and then find them guilty of a higher crime than
that of which they had been convicted in that court, and of
which higher crime that court had acquitted them, and they
contend that such conviction by the Supreme Court of the
islands was a violation of the act of Congress, passed July 1,
1902, 32 Stat, 691, a portion of the fifth section of that act providing that "no person for the same offense shall be twice put
in jeopardy of punishment."
This language is to be found in connection with other language in the same act, providing for the rights of a person accused of crime in the Philippine Islands. The whole language
is substantially taken from the Bill of Rights set forth in the
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, omitting
the provisions in regard to the right of trial by jury and the
right of the people to bear arms, and containing the prohibition
of the Thirteenth Amendment, and also prohibiting the passage
of bills of attainder and ex post facto laws.
The important question to be determined is, whether this
action of the Supreme Court of the Islands did violate the act
of Congress, by placing the accused twice in jeopardy.
The mealing of the phrase, as used in the above-mentioned
act of Congress, was before this court in Kepner v. United

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, decided in May, 1904, 195 U. S.100, where will be found
a very full discussion- of the subject. The plaintiff in error in
that case had been acquitted of the crime charged against him
in the court of first instance, but the Government, not being
satisfied with the decision, appealed to the Supreme Court, and
that court reversed the judgment of acquittal and found Kepner guilty of the crime of which the court of first instance had
acquitted him, and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment, and suspended him from any public office or public trust,
and deprived him of the right of suffrage. This court, upon
writ of error, held that, in reversing upon the appeal of the Government, the judgment of the court of first instance, and itself
convicting the accused and pronouncing judgment against him,
the Supreme Court of the Islands violated the provision in question, and its judgment was therefore reversed and the prisoner
discharged. It was also held that the Government had no
power to obtain a review of a judgment or decision of the trial
court acquitting an accused party, and that the phrase in question was to be construed as the same phrase would be construed
ifn
the instrument from which it was originally taken, viz., the
Constitution of the United States, and that the settled and
well-known meaning of the language, as used in the Constitution, must also be taken when the same language is used in the
act of Congress, and not as it might possibly be construed with
reference to Spanish law or Spanish procedure.
The difference between that case and the one now before the
court is obvious. Here the accused, while acquitted of the
greater offense charged in the complaint, were convicted of a
lesser offense included in the main charge. They appealed
from the judgment of the court of first instance and the Government had no voice in the matter of the appeal, it simply
followed them to the court to which they appealed. We regard
that fact as material and controlling. The difference is vital
between an attempt by the Government to review the verdict
or decision of acquittal in the court of first -instance and the
action of the accused person in himself appealing from tho
Voi. cxcix-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

judgment and asking for its reversal, even though that judgment, while convicting him of the lower offense, acquits him of
the higher one charged in the complaint.
We may regard the question as thus presented as the same
as if it arose in one of the Federal courts in this country, where,
upon an indictment for a greater offense, the jury had found
the accused not guilty of that offense, butguilty of a lower one
which was included in it, and upon an appeal from that judgment by the accused a new trial had been granted by the appellate court, and the question was whether, upon the new. trial
accorded, the accused could be again tried for the greater offense set forth in the indictment, or must the trial be confined
to that offense of whioh the accused had previously been convicted, and which conviction had, upon his own motion, been
set aside and reversed by the higher court.
This question has given rise to much diversity of opinion in
the various state courts. Many of them have held that the new
trial must be confined to the lesser offense of which the accused
had been convicted on the first trial, while other courts have
held precisely the contrary, and that upon a new trial the
whole case was open as if ther had been no former trial. Most,
if not all, of these two classes of cases have been cited by the
respective counsel in this case and will be found in their briefs
herein. It would be unprofitable to cite and refer to each of
them in detail here. They have been carefully examined.
Those cases which limit the new trial proceed upon the
ground, as stated in People v. Dowling, 84 N. Y. 478, 483, by
Folger, Chief Judge, as follows:
"The matter at the bottom is the constitutional provision
that 'No person shall be subject to be twice put in jeopardy for
the same offense' (Const. of N. Y. Art. 1, par. 6), and yet new
trials are granted in criminal cases on the motion of the accused, and if he gets a new trial he is thus subject to be twice
put in jeopardy. This is (lone on the ground, that by asking
for a correction of errors made on the first trial, he does waive
his constitutional protection, and does himself ask for a new

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

531

Opinion of the Court.

trial, though it brings him twice in jeopardy. But that waiver,
unless it be expressly of the benefit of the verdict of acquittal,
goes no further than the accused himself extends it. His application for a correction of the verdict is not to be taken as
more extensive than his needs. He asks a correction of so much
of the judgment as convicted him of guilt. He is not to be
supposed to ask correction or reversal of so much of it as acquitted him of offense. He, therefore, waives his privilege as
to one, and keeps it as to the other. It is upon this principle,
that where, by a verdict of guilty on one count or for one offense, and an acquittal on or for another, there has been a partial conviction on.an indictment, and on writ of error there has
been a reversal of the conviction, the acquittal still stands good,
and is, as to that count or offense, a bar. As to that, the plea
of autrejois acquit can be upheld, though the plea of autrefois
convict cannot be upheld as to the offense of which the verdict
was guilty. The waiver is construed to extend only to the precise thing concerning which the relief is sought."
But in the subsequent case of People v. Palmer, 109 N. Y;
.413, 419, the effect of the statute of New York, known as sections 464 and 544 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, was under
consideration. Those sections enacted as follows:
"SEc. 464. The granting of a new trial places the parties in
the same position as if no trial had been had .
.
"SEC. 544. When a new trial is ordered, it shall proceed in
all respects as if no trial had been had."
The statute was held valid, and that it did not violate the
constitutional provision against subjecting a person to be
twice put in jeopardy for the same offense, as the jeopardy was
incurred with the consent of and as a privilege granted to the
defendant upon his application.
And generally, it may be said that the cases holding that a
new trial is not limited in the manner spoken of proceed upon
the ground that in appealing from the judgment the accused
necessarily appeals from the whole thereof, as well that which
acquits as that which condemns; that the judgment is one en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

tire thing, and that as he brings up the whole record for review
he thereby waives the benefit of the provision in question, for
the purpose of attempting to gain what he thinks is a greater
benefit, viz., a review and reversal by the higher court of the
judgment of conviction. Although the accused was, as is said,
placed in jeopardy upon the first trial, in regard not only to the
offense of which he was accused, but also in regard to the lesser
grades of that offense, yet by his own act and consent, by appealing to the higher court to obtain a reversal of the judgment,
he has thereby procured it to be set aside, and when so set
aside and reversed the judgment is held as though it had never
been. This was in substance decided in United'States v. Harding et al., tried in the United States Circuit Court in 1846, 26
Fed. Cas. 131, before Mr. Justice Grier, then a member of this
court, and this is the ground substantially upon which the decisions of the other courts are placed.
In Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, it was stated by Mr.
Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion of the court, that it
was admitted that by the law of Missouri, as it stood at the
time of the homicide, the prisoner having been convicted of
murder in the second degree upon an indictment charging him
with murder in the first degree, if that conviction was set aside
he could not again be tried for murder in the first degree. That
law was in force at the date of the homicide for which Kring
was sentenced to death, but it was subsequently, and before
his retrial, changed so as to deprive him of the benefit to which
he would otherwise have been entitled, and this court held that
that change was, as to him, ex post facto and void. It was also
said by the court that there was "no question of the right of
the State of Missouri, either by her fundamental law or by an
ordinary act of legislation, to abolish this rule, and that it is a
valid law as to all offenses committed after its enactment. The
question here is, Does it deprive the defendant of any right of
defense which the law gave him when the act was committed
so that as to that offense it is ex post facto?" This court answered that question in the affirmative.

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In our opinion the better doctrine is that which does not
limit the court or jury, upon a new trial, to a consideration of
the question of guilt of the lower offense of which the accused
was convicted on the first trial, but that the reversal of 'the
judgment of conviction opens up the whole controversy and
acts upon the original judgment as if it had never been. The
accused by his own action has obtained a reversal of the whole
judgment, and we see no reason why he should not, upon a new
trial, be proceeded against as if no trial had previously taken
place. We do not agree to the view that the accused has the
rigit to limit his waiver as to jeopardy, when he appeals from
a judgment against him. As the judgment stands before he
appeals, it is a complete bar to any further prosecution for the
offense set forth in the indictment, or of any lesser degree
thereof. No power can wrest from him the right to so use that
judgment, but if he chooses to appeal from it and to ask for its
reversal he thereby waives, if successful, his right to avail himself of the former acquittal of' the greater offense, contained
in the judgment which he has himself procured to be reversed.
It is urged, however, that he has no power to waive such a
right, and the case of Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, is cited as
authority for that view. We do not so regard it. This court
held in that case that in the Territory of Utah the accused was
bound, by provisions of the Utah statute, to be present at all
times during the trial, and that it was not within the power of
the accused or his counsel to dispense with such statutory requirement. But on an appeal from a judgment of this nature
there must be a waiver to some extent on the part of the accused when he appeals from such judgment. When the first
trial is entered upon he is then put in jeopardy within the
meaning of the phrase, and yet it has been held, as late as
United States v. Ball, 163 U. S. 662, 671 (and nobody now
doubts it), that if the judgment of conviction be reversed on
his own appeal, he cannot avail himself of the once-in-jeopardy
provision as a bar to a new trial of the offense of which he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

convicted. And this is generally put upon the ground that by
appeal he waives his right tb the plea, and asks the court to
award him ,a new trial, although its effect will be, if granted,
that he will be again tried for the offense of which he has been
once convicted. This holding shows that there can be a waiver
of the defense by reason of the action of the accused. As there
is, therefore, a waiver in any event, and the question is as to
its extent (that is, how far the accused by his own action may
be deemed to have waived his right), it seems much more rational and in better accord with the proper administration of
the criminal law to hold that, by appealing, the accused waives
the right to thereafter plead once in jeopardy, when he has obtained a reversal of the judgment, even as to that part of it
which acquitted him of the higher while convicting him of the
lower offense. When at his own request he has obtained a new
trial he must take the burden with the benefit, and go back for
a new trial of the whole case. It does not appear to us to be
a practice founded on solid reason to permit such a limited
waiver by an accused party, while himself asking for a reversal
of the judgment.
There is also the view to be taken that the constitutional provision was really never intended to, and, properly construed,
does not cover, the case of a judgment under these circumstances, which has been annulled by the court at the request of
the accused, and there is, therefore, no necessity of relying upon
a waiver, because the correct construction of the provision does
not make it applicable.
A further question is made as to the power of the Supreme
Court of the Islands to reverse the judgment appealed from and
itself convict the accused on appeal. The Supreme Court, in
so doing, acted within its power and jurisdiction. It is a result
of the ordinary procedure in the courts of that country, proceeding under the act of Congress already referred to. See
statement of the procedure in the case heretofore cited, Kepner
v. 'United States, 195 U. S. 100.

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
is right, and it is
A/firmed.
MR. JUSTicE HOLMES concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN, dissenting.

The plaintiffs in error were tried by one of the courts of first
instance in the Philippine Islands for the crime of murder.
The trial was before a single judge, without a jury, and simply
upon a written complaint filed by an individual with a justice
of the peace. The judge who tried the accused found them not
guilty of murder, and guilty only of assault. For the latter
offense they were each sentenced to six months' imprisonment.
Upon appeal by the accused to the Supreme Court of the Islands, the judgment of the trial court, was reversed, and two
of the accused were condemned to the penalty, each one, of
fourteen years, eight months and one day of reelusi6n temporal,
the other one to the penalty of eight years and one day of
prisi6nmayor, and all three to the indemnification of five hundred Philippine pesos to the heirs of the deceased.
I did not so state in a separate opinion in Kepner v. United
States, 195 U. S. 100, but my concurrence in the judgment in
that case was upon the ground that from the moment of the
complete acquisition of the Philippine Islands by the United
States, and without any act of Congress, or a proclamation of
the President upon the subject, the people of those Islands
became entitled, of right, to the benefit of all the fundamental
guarantees of life, liberty and property to be found in that instrument. Hence, my approval of the view, announced in
Kepner's case, that the accused was entitled to the benefit of
the jeopardy clause of the Constitution.
Assuming that it was competent for the court of first instance
to proceed without a jury against the accused upon a mere
complaint by an individual, I desire to express my concurrence
in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice McKenna, so far as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

199 U. S.

holds that the accused in the present case were entitled to the
'benefit of the jeopardy clause of the Constitution, and that
after their acquittal in the tribunal 'assuming jurisdiction to
try them for the crime of murder they could not thereafter, in
any appellate tribunal, deriving its authority from the United
States, be again tried for that crime or for any crime more serious than the one of which they were convicted in the court
of first instance.
But I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
the present case upon the broader ground that, as the Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the land; as
that instrument declares that except in cases arising in the land
or naval forces, or in the militia when in actual service in time
of war or public danger, "no person shall be held to answer for
a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment
or indictment of a grand jury," and that "the trial of all
crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury;"
and as the people of the Philippine Islands are as much under
the authority and jurisdiction of the United States as are the
people within the limits of the several States and of the organized Territories of the United States, the prosecution of the
accused, based only upon the written complaint of an individual, filed with a justice of the peace, and their trial by a single
judge,, was without authority of law, and a nullity from beginning to end. I repeat substantially what has been said by me
in former cases, that no person, within the territory and subject to the sovereign jurisdiction of the United States, can be
legally deprived of his life or liberty for crime committed by
him against the United States, except in the mode prescribed
by the Constitution of the United States. I am unable to perceive how a principle declared by the supreme law of the land
to be essential in all prosecutions for crime against the-United
States ,can be recognized as applicable to a part of the- people
subject to the sovereign jurisdiction of the United States, and
yet be denied to another part of the people equally subject to
the national authority. No tribunal or officer deriving its au-

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

McKENNA and WHITF, JJ., dissenting.

thority from the United States can disregard the mandatory
injunctions of the Constitution by which the Government of
the United States is created, and under the sanction of which
alone that Government exists and performs its functions. It
may be that the application of these principles to the Philippine Islands and to the people who inhabit them may, particularly in criminal prosecutions, prove sometimes to be inconvenient. But no authority exists anywhere to set aside plain
provisions of the supreme law of the land, and substitute the
law of convenience for the written fundamental law.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

WHITE,

with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the judgment of the court.
When the United States acquired the Philippine Islands the
system of jurisprudence which prevailed there was different
from our Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence. Trial by jury was unknown. The trial court, called the court of first instalce, had
full authority to find the facts and adjudge the law, subject,
however, to a review by a higher court of both the facts and law.
This system was continued substantially by the orders of the
President and the act of July 1,1902, providing for the government of the Islands.
Therefore when Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.100, was
decided I was of opinion that under such a system there could
be no justifiable foundation for the plea of autrejois acquit, resulting from a judgment of acquittal by the lower court, when
such judgment had been reversed by the higher court; in other
words, that there could be no foundation for the plea of autrelois acquit arising from an acquittal in a case where the acquittal
was subsequently reversed as a result of a right to review, not
only the law but the facts, given by the very statutes which
provided for the trial. The court, however, decided otherwise,
and I joined in a dissent to the opinion. The Kepner case is
not overruled. It is said to be so clearly distinguishable as

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
MCKENNA and WHITF, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S..

not to call for much attention. I think otherwise. What was
the Kepner case, and what is this?
Kepner was charged with the crime of embezzlement. He
was tried in the court of first instance, without a jury, and
acquitted. Upon the appeal of the United States to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands the judgment of the
court of first instance was reversed, and he was found guilty
and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. This court reversed
the judgment and discharged Kepner on the ground that by
his trial in the court of first instance he had been in jeopardy,
and to try him again upon the merits, even in an appellate
court, was to put him a second time in jeopardy for the same
offense. In the case at bar the plaintiffs in error were charged
with murder. They were tried in the court of first instance
without a jury. They were convicted of simple assault. They
appealed to the Supreme Court, and that court reversed the
judgment of the court of first instance and convicted them of
murder in the second degree. I will not stop to demonstrate
that the conviction of the lesser crime of assault was an acquittal of the greater charge of murder. It has been made
unnecessary by clear concession in the opinion that plaintiffs
in error were acquitted of murder. Indeed (though it probably
makes no difference in principle) it was explicitly so found and
pronounced in the judgment of the court of first instance.
There is an exact parallel, therefore, between this case and the
Kepner-case in all particulars but one. In the Kepner case the
appeal was by the United States; in the case at bar it was by
the accused, and this difference is especially made the ground
of decision. It is, in effect, held that because the defendants
(plaintiffs in error) appealed and sought a review, as authorized by the statute, of the minor offense for which they were
convicted, the United States was given the right to try them'
for the greater offense for which they were acquitted. In some
of the cases quoted in the opinion such a result is said to arise'
from the consent of the accused, deemed to be given by taking
an appeal. An accused would not purposely and consciously

TRONO v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S,

MCKENNA and WHITE, JJ., dissenting.

appeal from an acquittal of a grave crime and cast from himself the immunity that such an acquittal gives him. Should
such consent be imputed? Let it be remembered that we are
dealing with a great right, I may even say a constitutional
right, for the opinion of the court discusses the case as though
it were from a Circuit Court of the United States. Should such
a right be narrowly or grudgingly considered? Should it be
put in balance with other rights and lost by their exercise? I
think that the guarantees of constitutions and laws should not
be so construed. The life and liberty of the citizen are precious things-precious to the State as to the citizen, and concern
for them is entirely consistent with a firm administration of
criminal justice. I submit that the State seeks no convictions
except in legal ways, and because it does not it affords means
of review of erroneous rulings and judgments, and freely affords
such means. It does not clog them with conditiohs or forfeit
by their exercise great and constitutional rights. Yet in my
judgment such is the effect of the decision just rendered.
The opinion says that as the accused takes up the whole
record for review, "he thereby waives the benefit of the provisions in question (once in jeopardy) for the purpose of attempting to gain what he thinks is a greater benefit, viz., a
review and reversal by the higher courts of the judgment of
conviction." I repeat again, that constitutional guarantees
and statutory remedies, should not be put in such barter; that
a defendant should not be required to give up the protection
of a just (it must be so regarded for the sake of the argument)
acquittal of one crime as the price of obtaining a review of an
unjust conviction of another crime.
In the opinion in the Kepner case it was said: " It is'not necessary to determine in this case 'Whether the jeopardy provision
in the Bill of Rights would have become a part of the law of
the Islands without Congressional legislation." Resting the
decision on that legislation, the court further observed: "How
can it be successfully maintained that this expression of fundamental rights, which have been the subject of frequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
McKENNA

and

WHITE,

JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

adjudication ir- the courts of this country, and the maintenance
of which has been ever deemed essential to our Government,
could be used by Congress in any other sense than that which
has been placed upon them in construing the instrument from
which they were taken?
"It is a well-settled rule of construction that language used
in a statute which has a settled and well-known meaning, sanctioned by judicial decision, is presumed to be used in that sense
by the legislative body. The Abbottsford, 98 U. S. 440."
If this language expresses a proper and determining test of
once in jeopardy against the appeal of the United States, it
must also be the test of once in jeopardy against the appeal of
the accused in the case at bar. By that test the judgment
should be reversed. Here and there may be found a decision
which supports the exposition of once in jeopardy expressed in
the opinion. Opposed to it is the general consensus of opinion
of American text books on criminal law and the overwhelming
weight of American decided cases. Which may we suppose
Congress adopted in its legislation, the interpretation of a few
cases (able, it may be, and highly sanctioned by the reputation
of the courts that-delivered them), or the interpretation of the
courts of a large number of the States of the Union?- See cases
in the margin.'
THE CHIEF JUSTICE also

dissented.

1 Alabama-Bell v. State, 48 Alabama, 684; Berry v. State, 65 Alabama, 117;

Sylvester v. State, 72 Alabama, 201.
California-Peoplev. Gilmore, 4 California, 376; People v. Apgar, 35 California, 389; People v. Gordon, 99 California, 227.
Florida-Johnson v. State, 27 Florida, 245; Golding v. State, 31 Florida, 262.
Illinois-Brennan v. People, 15 Illinois, 511; Barnett v. People, 54 Illinois,
325.
Iowa-State v. Tweedy, 11 Iowa, 350; State v. Helni, 92 Iowa, 540.
Louisiana-State v. Dennison, 31 La. Ann. 847; State v. Victor, 36 La. Ann.
978.
Michigan-People v. Knapp, 26 Michigan, 112, 114; People v. Comstock,
55 Michigan, 405, 407.
Minnesota-State v. Lessing, 16 Minnesota, 75.

