RIGGINS v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

RIGGINS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT' OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALXBAMA.
No. 169.

Submitted November 9, 1905.-Decided December 11, 1905.

The writ of habeas corpus will not issue unless the court under whose warrant petitioner is held is without jurisdiction, nor can the writ be used
merely to correct errors.
The vrit will not be granted when there is a remedy by writ of error or
appeal, except in rare and exceptional cases, and where, as in this case,
nothing in the record discloses special circumstances justifying a departure from the regular course, the writ should be quashed and the
petition dismissed.
RIGGINS and Powell were indicted under §§5508, 5509, Revised Statutes, in the District Court for the Northern Division
of the Northern District of Alabama) at the October Term,
1904, thereof; and on the twenty-fourth day of October, 1904,
the indittment was remitted to the next session of the Circuit
Court in and for that Division and District by order of thM Circuit Court, the District Judge presiding. A capias was issued
to take Riggins into custody to answer the indictment, October 26, 1904. On the same day a severance was ordered as
between Powell and Riggins, and thereupon Riggins filed his
petition for habeas corpus; the writ was issued; the marshal
made his return; the Circuit Court, held by the District Judge,
heard the case and discharged the writ and remanded Riggins
to custody; a bill of exceptions was signed and sealed, and an
appeal to this court was prayed, allowed and perfected, by the
giving of a bond in the penal sum of two hundred and fifty
dollars, which was approved by the judge; certificate of certain
questions of jurisdiction was filed; as also assignments of error;
and a citation was issued and served; all on the said twentysixth day of October, 1904. The opinion of the District Judge
will be found reported 134 Fed. Rep. 404.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

The petition for habeas corpus alleged that Riggins was restrained of his liberty by the United States marshal under the
capias issued on the indictment, a copy of which capias was
attached, as also a copy of the indictment. That indictment
in brief set up that Riggins and others entered into a conspiracy to take one Maples, a citizen of the United States of African
descent, from the state officers, to whose custody he had been
lawfully committed under a charge of murder, and to hang him
until he was dead, and that said conspiracy was formed and its
purpose executed because Maples was of African descent. The
petition averred that the indictment charged no offense punishable under the laws of the United States; that the indictment did not show that Riggins had violated any right, privilege or' immunity guaranteed to Maples under the Constitution
of the United States; or that any Federal law was violated
providing for the punishment of such offense; and that it did
not appear from the indictment that the conspiracy, combination or confederation therein alleged was formed or entered into
under any law of the State of Alabama, or that any law of that
State authorized its citizens or other persons to enter into any
conspiracy to injure, threaten-or oppress Maples by denying to
him, by reason of his race, the right, privilege and immunity of
a trial by jury to determine his guilt or innocence on an indictment for murder pending against him in the courts of.Alabama.
Mr. Lawrence Cooper for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General 'Purdyfor the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is settled, that the writ of habeas corpus will not issue unless
the court under whose warrant petitioner is held is without
jurisdiction, and that it. cannot be used merely to correct errors.
Ordinarily the writ will not be granted when there is a remedy

RIGGINS v. UNITED STATES.
199, U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by writ of error or appeal, yet in rare and exceptional cases it
may be issued, although such remedy exists.
In New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89, it was held that Congress
intended to invest the courts of the Union and the justices and
judges thereof with power upon writ of habeas corpus to restore to liberty any person within their respective jurisdictions
held in custody, by whatever authority, in violation of the
Constitution or any law or treaty of the United States; that
the statute contemplated that cases might arise when the power
thus conferred should be exercised during the progress of proceedings instituted in a state court against the petitioner on
account of the very matter presented for determination by the
writ of habeas corpus; but that the statute (lid not imperatively
require the Circuit Court by that writ to wrest the petitioner
from the custody of the state officers in advance of his trial in
the state court; and that while the Circuit Court had the power
to do so, and could discharge the accused in advance of his
trial, if restrained in violation of the Constitution, it was not
bound in every case to exercise such power immediately upon
application being made for the writ. The conclusion was that
in a proper exercise of discretion the Circuit Court should not
discharge the petitioner until the state court had finally acted
upon the case, when it could be determined whether the accused, if convicted, should be put to his writ of error or the
question determined on habeas corpus whether he was restrained
of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the, United
States.
These principles were fully discussed in the cases of the appeals of Royall from judgments in habeas corpus in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia.
117 U. S. 241. And in addition Royall made an original application to this court for a writ of habeas corpus, which was
denied upon the grounds stated in the previous cases. 117
U. S.254.
While special reasons may exist why this should be the rule,
in respect of proceedings in state courts, which are not appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

cable to cases in the courts of the United States, nevertheless
we have frequently applied the same principle to such cases.
In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211; In re Lancaster, 137 U. S. 393;
In re Huntington, 137 U. S. 63; .Ex parte Mirzan, 119 U. S.
584.
In Chapman's case we held that it was a judicious and salutary general rule not to interfere with proceedings pending in
the courts of the District of Columbia or in the Circuit Courts
of the United States in advance of their final determination.
And we said:
"XWe are impressed with the conviction that the orderly administration of justice will be better subserved by our declining
to exercise appellate jurisdiction in the mode desired until the
conclusion of the proceedings. If judgment goes against petitioner and is affirmed by the Court of Appeals and a writ of
error lies, that is the proper and better remedy for any cause of
complaint he may have. If, on the other hand, a writ of error,
does not lie to this court, and the.Supreme Court of the District was absolutely without jurisdiction, the petitioner may
then seek his remedy through application for a writ of habeas
corpus. We discover no exceptional circumstances which demand our interposition in advance of adjudication by the courts
of the District upon. the merits of the case before them."
In In re Lancaster, this court denied an application for leave
to file a petition for habeas corpus in the circumstances stated
in the opinion, which opinion was as follows:
"The petitioners were indicted under sections 5508 and 5509
of the Revised Statutes, on the 20th of November, 1890, in the.
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Georgia, and have
been taken into custody. They have not invoked the action
of the Circuit Court upon the sufficiency of the indictment by
a motion to quash or otherwise, but ask leave to file in this court
a.petition for a writ of habeas corpus, upon the ground that the
matters and things set forth and charged do not constitute any
offense or offenses under the laws of the United States, or cognizable in the Circuit Court, and that for other reasons the in-

RIGGINS v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dietment cannot be sustained. In this posture of the case we
must decline to interfere."
We are of opinion that the rule therein laid down should have
been followed by the Circuit Court.
True, the present case is not one of the issue of the writ of
habeas corpus in respect of confinement under state authority,
nor of an application to this court for the writ, but is the case
of custody taken under a capias issued on an indictment returned in the District Court and removed to the Circuit Court,
and an application to that court for the writ before defendant
had been compelled to take any step in the cause.
Defendant might have raised his objections to the indictment
by motion to quash or otherwise. If the indictment were held
good, as we are advised by the opinion of the Circuit Court it
would have been, defendant would have pleaded and gone to
trial, and might have been acquitted. If convicted, the remedy
by writ of error was open to him.
There is nothing in this record to disclose that there were any
special circumstances which justified a departure from the rgular course of judicial procedure. That departure is contrary
to the views we have heretofore explicitly expressed, and if we
acquiesce in this method of invoking our jurisdiction, we shall
find ourselves obliged to decide questions in advance of final
adjudication, contrary to the settled rule, and to many decisions we have heretofore announced upon the subject.
If we should affirm or reverse the final order in this case, we
should recognize a proceeding below, which we would not ourselves have entertained; and we are not disposed to hold that
this manner of testing such questions as are argued here ought
to have been pursued.
Final order reversed and cause remanded with a direction to the
Circuit Court to quash the writ of habeas corpus and dismiss
the petition without prejudice.

