OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

JACK v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 54.

COURT Of TIE STATE OF kANSAS.

Argued November 8, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

This court is bound by the decision of the highest court of a State that a
state statute does not violate any provision of the state constitution and
is valid so far as that instrument is concerned.
The first ten amendments to the Federal Constitution operate on the National Government only and were not intended to, and did not, limit the
powers of the States in respect to their own people.
A State cannot by statute grant immunity to a witness from prosecution
by the United States for violation of a Federal statute, or prevent the
testimony given by him under compulsion of the statute from being used
against him in a prosecution by the United States, and the absence of
such immunity from prosecution by the United States, does not necessarily invalidate the statute under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The provisions in the Kansas anti-trust law, as construed by the highest
court of that State, compelling witnesses to testify as to violations of the
act, and granting immunity from prosecution for violations testified to,
or the use of the testimony against the witness, are not void under the
Fourteenth Amendment, because immunity from Federal prosecution is
not granted; and one committed, in accord with the provisions of the
statute, for contempt for refusing to testify to acts within his knowledge
is not deprived of his liberty without due process of law.
THE plaintiff in error seeks to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Kansas, affirming a judgment
against him of imprisonment for contempt, entered by direction
of the District Court of Shawnee County, in that State. The
plaintiff in error had been duly subpoenaed as a witness to
appear before the above-mentioned District Court and was
examined before that court under and by virtue of the provisions of section 10 of chapter 265 of the Laws of Kansas of
1897. Gen. Stat. 1901, ยง7873. The statute is known as the
Kansas anti-trust act. Section 10 is reproduced in the margin.1
1 Section 10, being section 7873, General Statutes, 1901, reads-

"The several District Courts of this State and the judges thereof shall
have jurisdiction, and it shall be their duty, upon good cause shown and

JACK v. KANSAS.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The proceeding was commenced in September, 1903, by the
Attorney General and County Attorney of Shawnee County,
and those officers presented to the court their verified application, informing it of the existence of combinations 'of persons
engaged in the operation of coal mines in Osage County to
fix the price of coal at the mines, and the price to be charged
to purchasers; that the members of the combination met at a
place in Shawnee County monthly to fix the minimum price
to be charged for coal, and that they would not sell coal for
less than the minimum price so fixed, and that the agreements
thus entered into were by them carried out and executed. The
plaintiff in error was engaged in operating a coal mine in
Osage County, and was named in the application as one who
had a knowledge concerning the existence of the combination,
and a subpoena was thereupon asked for to be served upon him.
The district judge granted the application. The subpoena was
duly served, and the plaintiff in error appeared pursuant thereto
before the district judge and answered some questions that were
propounded him by the Attorney General or County Attorney.
Other questions were put to him in relation to his knowledge
of the meetings, and as to ihe existence of any agreement beupon written application of the County Attorney or the Attorney General,
to cause to be issued by the clerk of said court subpenas for such witnesses
as may be named in the application of a County Attorney or Attorney General, and to cause the same to be served by the sheriff of the county where
such subpcena is issued; and such witnesses shall be compelled to appear
before such court or judge at the time and place set forth in the subpoena,
and shall be compelled to testify as to any knowledge they may have of the
violations of any of the provisions of this act; and any witness who fails or
refuses to attend and testify shall be punished as for contempt, as provided
by law. Any person subpoenaed and examined shall not be liable to criminal
prosecution for any violation of this act about which he may testify. Neither
shall the evidence of any such witness be used against him in any criminal
proceeding. The evidence of all witnesses so subpoenaed shall be taken
down by the reporter of said court, and shall be transcribed and placed in
the hands of the County Attorney or the Attorney General, and he shall, in
the proper courts, at once prosecute such violator or violators of this act
as the testimony so taken shall disclose. Witnesses subponaed as provided
for in this section shall be compelled to attend from any county in the
State."

OCTOBERI TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S.

tween the operators of the coal mines of Osage County, anai
with regard to the fixing of the price of coal to be sold to residents and citizens of Kansas. The plaintiff in error refused
to answer these questions and assigned reasons for such refusal
at some length, but the chief ground now relied on in this court
as forming a Federal question is that the statute violated the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Federal Constitution; that the statute did not furnish a broad enough indemnity, and the judgment of imprisonment deprived him of his
liberty without due process of law.
The court held that the excuses given for declining to answer were insufficient, and thereupon instructed and directed
the witness to answer the questions propounded to him, but
he still refused to do so. Whereupon the court found him
guilty of a direct contempt of court in refusing to answer the
questions, and ordered that he be committed to the jail of
Shawnee County until he should answer them, but not beyond
a period of thirty days.
The plaintiff in error then appealed from the judgment
rendered against him to the Supreme Court, where it was
affirmed in May, 1904. To review that judgment of affirmance the plaintiff has brought the case here by writ of error.
Mr. W. H. Rossington, Mr. Charles Blood Smith, Mr. J. T.
Pringle and Mr. R. B. Gillerly submitted for plaintiff in error:

The court erred in denying to the plaintiff the protection
claimed under ยง 10 of the Bill of Rights and the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
Whether the origin of the Federal and state constitutional
guaranty is to be traced to the common law, or, as some contend, found its genesis in the statute of Edw. II, 1307-1326,
long before the adoption of the Federal Constitution the
principle had become part of the common law.
Liberally translated, the maxim, "nemo tenetur seipsum
accusare," means that any person, whatever the nature of the
action, may refuse to answer any question put to him as a

JACK v. KANSAS.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

witness, the answer to which will render or tend to render him
punishable for a crime, or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture
or render him infamous.
The immunity is not confined to a case in which the individual claiming it is a party, nor is it confined to a criminal
prosecution. It may be invoked by any person whose testimony is sought, whether the proceeding be civil or criminal.
In .the United States there is a constitutional guarantee
which protects every witness. In re Nickell, 47 Kansas, 734;
Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562. It is a prohibition acting directly on the court. Emery's Case, 107 Massachusetts, 184. Dealing as it does with a principle of civil
liberty the guaranty must be liberally construed. State v.
Faulkner, 75 S. W. Rep. 116, 135; Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 631.
Immunity *granted by legislative enactment in order to deprive a witness of his right to silence must be as broad and
comprehensive as the mischief which would follow the deprivation of the right.
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591;
Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra.
The witness should be protected from answering, because
his testimony might subject him to a criminal prosecution and
to the forfeitures and penalties prescribed by the Federal antitrust act, as to which the immunity granted by ยง 10 is entirely
unavailing.
The court below erred and is not sustained by Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591. The immunity of the witness should
not be circumscribed. 1 Burr's Trial, 245; People ex rel. v.
Forbes, 143 N. Y. 219; Stevens v. State, 50 Kansas, 712, 717.
Interstate shipments were involved in these cases and to compel the witness to answer questions would have put him in
jeopardy of Federal prosecution.
The witness should not be compelled to answer where he
alone knows the facts and of which the judge must himself
necessarily be ignorant. Foot v. Buchanan, 11"S Fed. Rep. 161.
A state legislature cannot discharge a witness from an of-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

fense committed against the National laws. The immunity
granted by the bankrupcty act, the same being not as broad as
the interstate commerce law, isnot sufficient to protect the
witness against offenses under the state laws, and therefore
the witness can not be compelled to testify. In re Nachmann,
114 Fed. Rep. 995; In re Shora, 114 Fed. Rep. 207; In re Smith,
112 Fed. Rep. 509; In re Kantner, 117 Fed. Rep. 356. See also
People v. Nussbaum, 67 N. Y. Supp. 492, 500; United States
v. McKae, 3 L. R. Ch. App. Cas. 79.
The denial of the claim of immunity interposed by these
witnesses was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States and deprived them of
their liberty without due process of law.
If compelled to answer the witness may be subjected as
well to testimony of facts and circumstances forming links in
a chain of evidence which would convict him of crime against
the National law. This entire procedure, as against one actually or supposedly involved in the commission of an offense
under the act, is a denial of the due process of law prescribed
by the Fourteenth Amendment.
As to what is due process of law and the law of the land see
Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, 368; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S.
416, citing Capel v. Childs, 2 Cromp. & Jer. 574; Windsor v.
McVeigh, 93 U. S.274; Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S.320; Dun
v. Hoboken L. &c. Co., 18 How. 276; Bank v. Okely, 4 Wheat.
244; Darlmouth College Case, 5 Wheat. 581; Ex parte Wall,
107 U. S.289; Kennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 481.
Mr. Edwin A. Austin, with whom Mr. C. C. Coleman, Attorney General of the State of Kansas and Mr. Otis E. Hengate
were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The constitutionality of the act of the State of Kansas in
its general effect, so far as involved in the writ of error of a
person convicted of a violation thereof, has been sustained
by this court. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447; National Oil
Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S.115.

JACK v. KANSAS.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The scope and meaning of this act, as determined by the
Supreme Court of the State, conclude this court in determining
whether or not such statute and constitution violate the Federal Constitution. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447.
The Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution
does not so limit the State that a witness examined under this
law is justified in refusing to answer because the immunity
afforded by ยง 10 of the act does not protect him against criminal
prosecutions, fines and forfeitures for violations of the Federal
anti-trust law. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 608; People
v. Nussbaum, 67 N. Y. Supp..492, and other cases cited by
plaintiff in error are inapplicable.
The provisions of the Fifth Amendment against compelling
a witness to testify against himself, are limitations only upon
Federal action, and do not apply to prosecutions or proceedings in state courts. Thorington v. Montgomery, 147 U. S.
490. Nor did the Fourteenth Amendment change the whole
theory of the relations of the state and Federal governments
to each other or of both governments to the people. In re
Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436.
The Fourteenth Amendment did not add to the privilege
and immunities of citizens of the several States, and it did not
so enlarge the effect of the former amendments that they now
apply to the States and the citizens thereof. Maxwell v. Dow,
176 U. S. 581; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516.
As to the double jeopardy clause in the Fifth Amendment
it has been held that the same act might, as to its character,
tendencies, and the consequences it involved, constitute an
offense against both the state and Federal governments, and
might draw to its commission the penalties denounced by
either as appropriate to its character in reference to each.
Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; United States v. Marigold, 9 How.
560; Moore v. Illinois, 14 How. 13; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.
371; Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 75, 85. See also West v.
Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258. 'As to what is due process of law
see cases cited by plaintiff in error and also Pennoyer v. Neff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

95 U. S. 733; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 104; Kilbourn v.. Thompson, 103 U. S. 182; Hagar v. Reclamation
District, 111 U. S. 708; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 468.
To find any Federal constitutional restraint of the States,
the court must say that imprisonment by a state court of a
recalcitrant witness refusing' to testify, though granted full
immunity from prosecution by that jurisdiction, because his
disclosures might subject him to the possibility of prosecution
under some Federal law, constitutes a deprivation of liberty
without due process of law, using that term only in its own
proper vigor and meaning. So there is no question involving
the language of the Fifth Amendment not taken and not used
in the Fourteenth Amendment, and as to this see Hurtado v.
California, supra.
Authority to determine what ciimes are punishable and to
provide for their punishment is a part of the general police
power of a sovereign and independent State, and, not being
conferred by the Constitution of the United States upon the
Federal Government, remains with the separate States of the
Union. The Fourteenth Amendment does not create, narrow
or widen police power, but leaves it as it was before that
Amendment was adopted. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 554; Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 134; French v. Asphalt Co., 181 U. S.
329; Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 436.
The possibility that the testimony might contain disclosures
tending to show a violation of the anti-trust law of some other
State or of the United States is not a real and probable danger
of criminal prosecution, within the constitutional privilege
against giving self-incriminating evidence. PeopZe v. Buitler
Street Foundry, 201 Illinois, 236.
The rule of the common law of England had reference only
to matters penal by that law, and a discovery could not be
refused because the disclosure would subject the witness to
criminal prosecution by some other sovereignty. King v.
Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301; Brown v. Walker, supra.
If the full pardon by the State is ineffectual because it does

JACK v. KANSAS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not extend to Federal offenses, then the State is limited in its
power to legislate concerning its domestic affairs.
Because, as the States cannot affect Federal powers or Federal offenses, no immunity in a state statute can be broad
enough to include immunity from Federal prosecutions.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 128.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court of Kansas has held in this case that the
statute under which the plaintiff in error was sentenced to be
imprisoned for a contempt of court was a valid statute, and
did not violate either the constitution of the State or of the
Federal Government.
One portion of the statute in question has already been
passed upon by this court and decided to be a valid provision
as construed by the state court. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.
447. The decision in that case has no application to the
section involved herein.
It is contended on the part of the plaintiff in error that the
court below denied to him the protection of section 10 of the
bill of rights of the constitution of Kansas, and also denied
to him the benefit of the provision of the Fifth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, that no person should
be compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself, and also that he has been deprived of the benefit of the
Fourteenth Amendment. We are bound by the decision of
the Supreme Court of Kansas that the statute in question
violated no provision of the constitution of that State, and
that it was a valid statute so far as that instrument was concerned. This doctrine is familiar, and a few of the many cases
upon the subject are cited in Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.
supra.
It has been so frequently held, as not to warrant the citation
of many authorities, that the first ten amendments to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Federal Constitution operate on the National Government only,
and were not intended to, and did not, limit the powers of the
States in respect to their own people. Spies v. Illinois, 123
U. S. 131; Brown v. New Jersey,, 175 U. S. 172, 174. That
portion of the Fifth Amendment, therefore, already cited, has
no application in a proceeding like this, in a state court, under
a state statute.
The plaintiff in error, however, contends that the denial of
his claim of right to refuse to answer the questions was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, and deprived him of his liberty without due
process of law. This, in reality, is the sole question in the
case. He contends that the immunity granted by the state
statute, while enforcing the giving of testimony which may
incriminate the party interrogated, as a violator of that statute, is not (and could not be) broad enough to provide immunity from prosecution under the Federal anti-trust statute,
and that compelling him to answer questions under such circumstances, which might incriminate him as a violator of the
Federal anti-trust statute, and upon his refusal condemning
him to imprisonment, deprived him of his liberty without due
process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the statute is therefore void. The state statute
could not, of course, prevent a prosecution of the same party
under the United States statute, and it could not prevent the
testimony given by the party in the State proceeding from
being used against the same person in a Federal court for a
violation of the Federal statute, if it could be imagined that
such prosecution would be instituted under such circumstances.
Is this fact fatal to the proceeding? We think not. Assuming for this purpose that if the statute failed to give sufficient
immunity from prosecution or punishment, it would violate
the Fourteenth Amendment, and that an imprisonment by
virtue of the statute would be depriving the witness of his
liberty, without due process of law, we come to an examination of the extent of the immunity in this case.

JACK v. KANSAS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question has been before this court in cases somewhat
similar to this, although they arose under Federal statutes.
In Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, the immunity provided for by section 860 of the Revised Statutes was held not
to 1)e broad enough to enable the prosecution to insist upon an
answer from the witness. In the subsequent case of Brown
v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, the statute there involved was held
to afford complete immunity to the witness, and he was therefore obliged to answer the questions that were put to him,
although they might tend to incriminate him. In that case
it was contended, on the part of the witness, that the statute
did not grant him immunity against prosecutions in the state
courts, although it granted him full immunity from prosecution by the Federal Government. This contention was held
to be without merit. While it was asserted that the law of
Congress was supreme, and that judges and courts in every
State were bound thereby, and that therefore the statute granting immunity would probably operate in the state as well as
in the Federal courts, yet still, and aside from that view, it was
said that while there might be a bare possibility that a witness
might be subjected to the criminal laws of some other sovereignty, it was not a real and probable danger, but was so
improbable that it needed not to be taken into account.
The Supreme Court of Kansas has held in this case that in
the proceeding under the section in question the witness can
only be asked material questions relating to information regarding any alleged violation of the statute relating to transactions within the State, and that it would not be material,
and consequently not permissible, to ask a witness in relation
to matters of interstate commerce, which might constitute a
violation of the Federal anti-trust act. Therefore, the opinion
continued, if in the course of an examination properly made,
in regard to transactions within the State, information should
incidentally be given which might possibly be used in a prosecution under the Federal act; such possible prosecution did not
operate as a reason for permitting the witness to refuse to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

answer; that it could not be presumed that under such circumstances any Federal prosecution would ever take place,
and that it was, within the reasoning of Brown v. Walker,
supra, a danger so unsubstantial and remote that it was not
necessary (as it was impossible) for the statute to provide
against it. We regard this as a sound view. We do not believe that in such case there is any real danger of a Federal
prosecution, or that such evidence would be availed of by the
Government for such purpose. We think the legal' immunity
is in regard to a prosecution in the same jurisdiction, and when
that is fully given it is enough. The principles underlying
the provision itself have been thoroughly treated in the above
cited cases, and it would be out of place to here renew their
discussion.
We are of opinion that no Federal right of the plaintiff in
error has been violated, and the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Kansas must, therefore, be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissented.

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 61.

Submitted November 9, 1905.-Decided November 29, 1905.

The interest which arises in an entryman by his entry, who can fulfil the
conditions of settlement and proof in case of his death, and to whom the
title passes depend upon the laws of. the United States; and a suit brought
by an heir, claiming under the law of a State, against the grantee of the
widow who perfected title and obtained the patent involves the construction of sections 2291 and 2292, Rev. Stat,, and other statutes relating to homesteads, and can be removed on that ground from the state court
to the Circuit Court of the United States.
Under sections 2291 and 2292, Rev. Stat., the widow of the entryman is

