NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 171
199 U.S.

Syllabus.

the foreclosure and sale, the public interests are to be regarded,
and not simply private purposes, wishes or prejudices.
One thing more requires notice. It is contended that the
terms of the decree are too broad; that they give to the Mason
City Company not merely the use of the bridge and its approaches, including therein connections with western roads
terminating at Omaha, but also the use of all side or spur
tracks connecting the Union Pacific Railroad with private
industries, and the track extending northward from the main
line of the Union Pacific to the old ferry crossing. On the
argument counsel for the appellee stated that his company
made no claim to a right to use these tracks. If the language
of the decree is open to this misconstruction 'it should be corrected, and the Circuit Court may make such correction on
proper application.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA took no part in the decision of this
case.

NEDERLAND LIFE .INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. MEINERT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

No. 11.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 18, 1905.-Decided November 6, 1905.

Promptness of payment -f life insurance premiums is essential and although
forfeitures are not generally regarded with favor they are necessary and
should be fairly enforced in regard to such payments. A statute requiring
notice of time of payment of premium and effect of non-payment thereof
should not be construed so as to make it a trap for either the company
or the assured.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U.S.

Where the assdred has received the statutory notice, containing in the words
of the statute a statement as to the effect of non-payment of the premium,
the fact that a mistaken additional statement as to the forfeiture of the
policy by reason of such non-payment, was contained in the notice is
not such a failure to comply with the terms of the statute as will prevent
a forfeiture of the policy where it appears that after default the assured
received another notice in regard thereto, had an opportunity to reinstate
the policy by payment of the premium, within a specified time according
to the policy, but made no payment for over three years, and did not
ask for any extension of time, and the company had noted the, forfeiture
on its books.

MRs. MEINERT, the plaintiff below, filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Indiana her amended
complaint, by leave of court, against the petitioner, the insurance company, to recover $5,000 on a certain policy of insurance for that sum on the life of her deceased husband, William
Meinert. She obtained judgment or the trial before a judge
without a jury, which was affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 127 Fed. Rep. 651. This court allowed a writ of
certiorari to review that judgment and the case is now here
upon the return to that writ.
The material facts are the following: The company, on the
fifth day of March, 1896, issued the policy in suit in consideration of the payment of quarterly premiums of $25.25, each on
or before the fifth days of March, June, September and December in each year for five years; after that the payments were
to be $64.25 for the following fourteen yers or until the previous death of the insured, should his death occur before the
expiration of the specified period. Four quarterly payments
of $25.25 each were made, the last one having .been made on or
before December 5, 1896. No other instalment of premium.
was ever paid. The assured died on the twenty-fourth day of
March, 1900. Over three years and three months had passed,
therefore, since the last payment of any premium. Meinert,
up to the time of his death, lived at Evansville, Ind.
On the fifteenth day of February, 1897, the company sent
him by mail a written notice as follows:

NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 173
199 U. 4.

Statement of the Case.

"Nederland Life Insurance Co. (Ld.).
"Established in Amsterdam, (Holland), 1858.
"United States Branch, 874 Broadway, New York City.
"Pursuant to Chapter 690 of the Insurance Law of 1892 of
the State of New York, you are hereby notified that the quarterly premium of $25.25 on policy No. 58,021 will fall due on
the 5th day of March, 1897, if the policy be then in force. The
conditions of your policy provide that unless such'premium
shall be paid at the United States Branch Office of the company, or to a person authorized to collect such premium holding
the company's receipt therefor, by or before that date, the
policy and all payments thereon will be forfeited and void,
except-as to the right to a cash surrender value or paid-up
policy.
"L. I. DuBOURCQ,
"President of the U. S. Branch.
"If payment is made to the company directly it can be done
by valid draft, check, postal or express money order made out
to the order of the United States Branch of the Nederland
Life Insurance Co. (Ld.)."
This notice was duly received by the assured February 16,
1897.
On Saturday, April 3, 1897, the company sent him bv mail
another notice, as follows:
"Nederland Life Insurance Co., Limited.
"Established 1858, Amsterdam, Holland,
"United States Branch, 874 Broadway, New York.
"New York, April 3, 1897.
"William Meinert,
"217 Law Ave., Evansville, Ind.
"Dear Sir: The premium on your policy which fell due on
the 5th March has not been paid and the policy is therefore

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Petitioner.

199 U. S.

null and void. I beg to inform you, however, that if the same
is paid within ten days your policy will be reinstated.
"L. I. DuBOURCQ, President.
"Policy No. 58,021."
This notice was received by him in due course of mail on
Monday, April 5, 1897, but he never acknowledged its receipt
and never took any steps to have the policy reinstated. On
April 22, 1897, the company entered on the appropriate records
of its office the declaration that the policy was forfeited and
lapsed for failure to pay instalment of premium.
It was agreed between the company and the assured that
the provisions printed or written upon the back of the policy
were to be taken as part of it, as fully as if they were set forth
at length on its face, and signed by the parties. One of them
was article 2, which reads as follows:
" In case of non-payment of any annual premium or instalment thereof within thirty days after the same shall fall due,
this policy shall be null and void, subject, however, to provisions
as to cash surrender and paid-up policy values. The company
will, however, as a matter of favor and not of right, mail notice
to the insured or the assignee at the last address furnished by
him or them to the company, to the effect that the policy may
be reestablished by the payment of the annual premium or
instalment thereof still due, within ten days after mailing
notice."
The application for the insurance, which by agreement was
also made part of the contract, provided that "this application
shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, the
place of said contract to be the principal office in the United
States of said company in the city of New York."
Mr. John L. Cadwalader, with whom Mr. George Coggill and
Mr. George W. Wickersham were on the brief, for petitionerThe premium notice sent to Meinert by the petitioner was
in conformity to the New York statute, and the cases relied

NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 175
199 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

on by the Circuit Court of Appeals do not sustain the judgment.
See Mutual Life v. Phinney, 178 U. S. 327.
Section 92 of the insurance laws of New York is not applicable to this case but the place of the contract was the State of
Indiana. See Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hill, 193 U. S. 551;
Equitable Life Assurance Soc. v. Clements, 140 U. -S. 226;
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Cohen, 179 U. S. 262; Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Hathaway, 106 Fed. Rep. 815, to the effect that the
statutory provision of New York in reference to forfeitures
has no extra-territorial effect, and does not of itself apply to
the contracts made by a New York company outside of that
State. Phelan v. N. W. Mutual, 113 N. Y. 147; Schad v.
Security Mutual, 155 N. Y. 640; Hicks v. Nat. Life Ins. Co.,
60 Fed. Rep. 690; Prov. Svgs. Life v. Nixon, 73 Fed. Rep.
144; Equitable Life v. Nixon, 81 Fed. Rep. 796; Born v. Home
Ins. Co., 81 N. W. Rep. 676; Smith v. Continental Ins. Co., 79
N. W. Rep. 126, relied on by respondent as to the notice and
its effect, all are distinguished, and the decision in N. Y. Life
Ins. Co. v. Dingley, 93 Fed. Rep. 153, is clearly wrong.
The insured's acts in connection with the policy show that
he abandoned it. Lone v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 33 Washington, 577; Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 214; Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Hill, 193 U. S. 551, 560; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Phinney,
178 U. S. 327, 344. "De Frece v. National Life Ins. Co., 136
N. Y. 144; Baxter v. Brooklyn Life Ins. Co., 119 N. Y. 450;
Carter v. Brooklyn Life Ins. Co., 110 N. Y. 15, do not apply
to this case.
Mr. G. K. Denton, with whom Mr. Albert J. Beveridge and
Mr. Larz A. Whitcomb were on the brief, for respondent:
The repudiation of the contract by the company before the
expiration of the time for the payment of the premium, excused the insured from thereafter making a tender of the same.
See authorities collected 4 Ency. P1. & Pr. 630, note 1. See
also Hanna v. Phelps, 7 Indiana, 21; House v. Alexander, 105
.Indiana, 112; Tobin, v. Young, 124 Indiana, 512; Turner v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Cour.

199 U. S.

Perry, 27 Indiana, 163; Blair v. Hamilton, 48 Indiana, 32;
Willcuts v. Northwestern Mutual &c. Co., 81 Indiana, 312;
Phonix Ins. Co. v. Hinesley, 75 Indiana, 1.
This principle has been applied to the payment of premiums
in the following cases: Manhattan Life v. Smith, 44 Ohio St.
156; Sourwine v. Supreme Lodge K. of P., 12 Ind. App. 447;
Heinlein v. Ins. Co., 101 Michigan; 250; Union Central Life Ins.
Co. v. Caldwell (Ark.), 58 S. W. Rep. 355; National Mutual v.
Home Benefit (Pa.), 37 Atl. Rep. 519; Guetspow v. Mich. Mut.
(Wis.), 81 N. W. Rep. 652; Supreme Lodge v. Davis (Col.), 58
Pac. Rep. 595; Supreme Council v. Bailey (Ky.), 55 S.W.
Rep. 888; Dennison v. Masonic Society, 69 N. Y. Supp. 291;
TeBow v. Wash. Life, 69 N. Y. Supp. 289, and authorities cited;
Sullivan v. Industrial Ben. Assn., 26 N. Y. Supp. 186.
Payment or tender of payment of premiums is not necessary
where the insurers have already declared the policy forfeited
or done any other act which is tantamount to a declaration
on their part that they will not receive it if tendered. May
on Insurance, ยง 358; 19 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed., 57.
The notice was not in compliance with the New York statute.
Phelan v. N. W. Ins. Co., 113 N. Y. 147; McDougall v. Prov.
Savings Society, 135 N. Y. 551; N. Y. Life v. Dingley, 93
Fed. Rep. 153. There was no abandonment of the contract.
Strauss v. Mut. Reserve, 36 S.E. Rep. 352; S.C., 39 S.E. Rep.
55; A. L. of H. v. Black, 123 Fed. Rep. 650; Ebert v. Mutual
Reserve, 83 N. W. Rep. 506; Met. Life Ins. Co. v. Bowser, 20
Ind. App. 557; Taylor v. Mutual Reserve, 97 Virginia, 60;
Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Hinesley, 75 Indiana, 1.
MR. JUSTICE

P)ECKHAM,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in favor of the plaintiff below for the recovery
of the amount found due upon the policy in question is based
on the above-mentioned facts, the courts holding that the
policy was not forfeited but was in full force because of the

NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 177
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alleged failure of the company to comply with the law of New
York in relation to giving the notice provided for therein.
The provision in question is found in section 92, chapter 690,
of the Laws of New York for 1892. The section is set forth
1
in the margin.
The alleged failure to comply with the terms of the section
consists in prefixing the words, "the conditions of your policy
provide," to the notice required by the statute, which provides
that the notice shall state'that "unless such premium
.
then due shall be paid .
.
by or before the day it falls
1 Laws of New York, chap. 6 0, sec. 92.
"92. No forfeiture of policy without notice.-No life insurance corporation doing business in this State shall declare forfeited, or lapsed, any policy
hereafter issued or renewed, and not issued upon the payment of monthly
or weekly premiums, or unless the same is a term insurance contract for one
year or less, nor shall any such policy be forfeited, or lapsed, by reason of
non-payment when due of any premium, interest or instalment or any
portion thereof required by the terms of the policy to be paid, unless a
written or printed notice stating the amount of such premium, interest,
instalment, or portion thereof, due on such policy, the place where it should
be paid, and the person to whom the same is payable, shall be duly addressed and mailed to the person whose life is insured, or the assignee of the
policy, if notice of the assignment has been given to the corporation, at his
or her last known post office address, postage paid by the corporation, or
by an officer thereof, or person appointed by it to collect such premiums,
at least fifteen and not more than forty-five days prioi to the day when tile
same is payable.
"Thenotice shall also state that unless such premium, interest, instalment, or portion thereof, then due, shall be paid to the corporation, or to a
duly appointed agent or person authorized to collect such premium by or
before the day it falls due, the policy and all payments thereon will become
forfeited and void except as to the right to a surrender value or paid-up
policy as in this chapter provided.
"If the payment demanded by such notice shall be made within its time
limited therefor, it shall be taken to be in full compliance with the requirements of the policy in respect to the time of such payment; and no such
policy shall in any case be forfeited or declared forfeited, or lapsed, until
the expiration of thirty days after the mailing of such notice.
"The affidavit of any officer, clerk or agent of the corporation, or of any
one authorized to mail such notice, that the notice required by this section
has been duly addressed and mailed by the corporation issuing such policy,
shail be presumptive evidence that such notice has been duly given."
voi. cxcix-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

due" (March 5, 1897) "the policy and all payments thereon
will become forfeited and void," etc., whereas, by reference
to the policy, article 2, indorsed on the back thereof, it will
be seen that if the premium is not paid within thirty days after
the same shall fall due, the policy shall be null and void. The
notice thus mistakenly states that the policy "by its conditions" will become void, etc., while in truth it is the language
of the statute which the notice uses.
The company contends that the law of New York does not,
-for the reasons stated in the brief of counsel, apply to the particular facts set forth herein, and it also* contends that the
notice which was in fact given fully complied with the terms
of the law. We pass over the first contention without discussion, because we are of opinion that, assuming the New
York statute to apply, the notice given by the company was
sufficient, and the policy was forfeited long before the death
of the plaintiff's husband.
Referring to the statute, it is seen that by omitting the
above-mentioned words, "the conditions of your policy provide," the rest of the notice actually given does comply with
the terms of the statute. The notice informed the assured
that unless the premium which would fall due on the fifth of
March, 1897, if the policy was then in force, should be paid by
or before that date, the policy and all payments thereon
would become forfeited and voi, except as to the right to a
cash surrender value or paid-up policy. This is exactly what
the statute required the notice to state. The statute does not
require the notice to state that the policy would become forfeited only after the expiration of thirty days after the payment became due, or notice was mailed, in case such payment
were not made, but it says distinctly that the notice shall
state that failure to pay the premium by or before the date it
falls due will forfeit the policy and all payments thereon.
Why should the mistaken statement as to the conditions of
the policy prove fatal, when the exact language of the statute
as to the contents of the notice is used? The error of fact as

NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 179
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the consequence of a failure to pay, as contained in the
notice, would be exactly the same, if the words above referred
to had been omitted, because the statute provides that the
assured shall, nevertheless, have thirty days after mailing the
notice before a forfeitare can be asserted. There can be no
doubt that the premium did become due on the fifth of March,
and the thirty days' extension simply permitted a payment
within that time to save a forfeiture.
Now whether the statement in the notice were incorrect because of a failure to state accurately the conditions of the policy,
or because of a failure to tell the assured the subsequent provisions in the statute as to forfeiture, is not in either case material, so long as the notice follows the statute, and if it do
that it is good, even though it contains such a mistake as is set
forth herein. The purpose of the statute was to prevent a forfeiture by the non-payment of the premium when due, because of inadvertence or forgetfulness, and when the assured
receives the very notice required by the statute its purpose is
fulfilled, although the notice contains in another respect such
a mistake as does this notice. It is most unreasonable to hold
that a statement of the consequence of the failure to pay the
premium when due, mistakenly attributed in the notice to a
provision in the policy, should be held fatal, when the same
statement, without attributing it to a provision in the policy,
would be a fulfillhent of the requirements of the statute. In
either case there would be an error as to the time of forfeiture,
but there would also be a correct statement, in the very words
of the statute, of the time the premiim was payable, its amount
and where it could be paid. In such case to assume that an
injury might follow is, as we think, to assume an ignorance or
carelessness on the part of the assured, which is unreasonable
as well as improbable. A spark of intelligence on the part of
the assured would prompt him to refer to his policy and he
would then see the mistake of -fact made in the notice as to the
length of the time he had in which to pay in order to prevent a
forfeiture. If he thought the notice rightly stated the fact as

OCTOBER TERM, 1905
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

to forfeiture, the natural result would be greater care to pay
or some application to extend the time of payment on or before the day when the payment became due. Of that day he
had the ample notice provided in the statute. It is scarcely
possible to imagine any* injury resulting from this error, although extraordinary and wonderful things do sometimes
occur. Courts, however, cannot proceed upon the theory
that policyholders are non compotes mentis, and that the natural result of such a mistake of fact upon a person of ordinary
intelligence cannot be assumed in the case of a holder of a
policy of insurance. It cannot reasonably be assumed that
the assured might be betrayed into not doing at all what the
notice tells him must be done on or before a certain day in
order to save a forfeiture, because the notice omits to tell him
of the extended time before the forfeiture can really be enforced,
nor can such failure be anticipated as the result of the mistake.
So long as the assured has in fact the notice required by law
we are of opinion that such a mistake, as was made in this case,
is immaterial.
The cases from the New York courts do not decide
contrary
to our decision herein. In Phelan v. The Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Company, 113 N. Y. 147, the notice was not
like the one in this case. The notice spoken of there, it was
held, did not comply with the statute, because it was not
given in its words, and the language actually used was held
by the majority of the court to be so far from complying with
the statute in a material manner as to render it of no use.
The court said that the notice, instead of saying that the
policy would become forfeited and void, said that "members
neglecting so to pay are carrying their own risks," and that
the latter words, while they might be comprehensive to those
versed in the language of insurers and accustomed to their
phfaseology, were not the language of the statute and did not
embody the notice which the statute required.
The other case, Schad v. Security Mlutual Life Association,
155 N. Y. 640, affirmed without any opinion the decision of the

NEDERLAND LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. MEINERT. 181
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Appellate Division of the Supreme Court reported in 11 App.
Div. 487, where it was held that a statement that in case of the
non-payment of the premium when it became due the policy
would cease to be in force, did not comply with the notice
required by the statute, that if the premium was not paid
when due the policy and all payments thereon would become
forfeited and void.
In McDougall v. Provident Savings Life Assurance Society,
135 N. Y. 551, it was held that where the policy was out of the
ordinary form a notice, which did not follow literally the words
of the statute, but contained a statement reminding the assured of the time and place when and where to make any payments required by the terms of the contract, the amount
thereof, and the effect of non-payment was sufficient.
A statute of this kind should not be construed so as to make
it a trap for either side. Forfeitures, though generally not
regarded with favor by courts of equity, yet are necessary,
and should be fairly enforced, in cases of life insurance.
Promptness of payment is essential in such business. New
York Life Ins. Co. v. Statham, 93 U. S. 24, 30.
Where, therefore, the assured has in truth received notice
(as provided by statute) of the time of payment of the premium,
its amount and where it can be paid, and a statement is made
in the words of the statute itself as to the effect of non-payment, a mistaken additional statement like the one made here
ought not to be held a failure to comply with the terms of the
statute and .thus prevent a forfeiture which thd assured evidently contemplated.
We are aware of the case of New York Life Insurance Co. v.
Dingley, 93 Fed. Rep. 153, but we cannot agree with the views
therein expressed.
The case before us shows no evidence of any injury to the
assured on account of the notice. He received, as the record
shows, another notice on the fifth of April, informing him
that his policy was forfeited, but that it could be reinstated
by the simple payment of tht premium within ten days there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

after. He made no acknowledgment of the receipt of the
notice, failed to pay the premium and asked no extension of
time. Finally, on the twenty-second day of April, the forfeiture was noted on the books of the company. We think
that the statute was complied with and that the forfeiture.
was legal.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the latter court with instructions to
enter judgment for the defendant.
Reversed.

CORKRAN

OIL AND

DEVELOPMENT

COMPANY

v.-

ARNAUDET.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 22.

Argued October 24, 25, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905..

A petition for rehearing to the Supreme Court of the State is too late to
raise Federal questions in that court unless the petition is entertained
and the point passed on.
Although title may be claimed in the state court under a Federal statute,
if the decision of that court rests on a ground independent of that statute,
and involving no Federal question the writ of error will be dismissed.
THIS

was a petitory action commenced by the Corkran Oil

and Developmennt Company in tile Eighteenth Judicial Dis-

trict Court for the )arish of Acadia, Louisiana, on the sixth
day of December, A. D. 1901, against Laurent Arnaudet and
others, to recover possession of certain real property. Plaintiff alleged that the land was claimed by Anthony Corkran
during his lifetime, an(d by his heirs and legal representatives
after his death, and that said claim, known as the "Corkran
grant," was finally confirmed to Corkran's heirs and legal

