FARRELL v. O'BRIEN

89

Syllabus.

199 U. S.

1
FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.

APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 193.

Argued April 4, 5,1905.-Decided Iay 29, 1905.

Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked not only on the
ground of diverse citizenship but also on a constitutional question, the
mere averment of the latter is not sufficient if it is so wanting in merit
as to be frivolous and, under such circumstances, if an appeal and a petition for certiorari are both pending, as in this case, the appeal will be
dismissed; but if the correctness of the decree or) the general issue should
be considered the writ will be allowed and the record on appeal treated
as a return thereto.
As the authority to make wills is derived from the State and the requirement of probate is but a regulation to make a will effective, matters of
pure probate, in the strict sense of the words, are not within the jurisdiction of courts of the United States.
Where a state law, statutory or customary, gives to the citizens of the
State, in an action or suit inter partes, the right to question at law the
probate of a will or to assail probate in a suit in equity the courts of the
United States in administering the rights of citizens of other States or
aliens will enforce such remedies. The action or suit inter partes, however, must relate to independent controversies and not to mere controversies which may arise on an application to probate or a mere method
of procedure ancillary to the original procedure.
The statutory procedure of the State of Washington for probate of wills
relates to nuncupative wills as well as ordinary wills, and the authority
conferred on the courts to contest a will is a part of the probate procedure, and 'does not cause a contest to be a suit inter partes, and therefore the Circuit Court of the United States, in a case where jurisdiction
is based on diverse citizenship, is without jurisdiction to declare either
the non-existence of a nuncupative will or the nullity of the probate
thereof by the probate ,court.
Where the state statute provides that within a fixed period after its ad'mission to probate interested parties may question the validity of a will
or its probate, and the statute applies to written and nuncupative wills,
the preliminary admission of a nuncupative will to probate and the
temporary control taken of the property, both real and personal,by the
probate court without the notice required by statute, do rot so deprive
the parties of their property without due process of law within the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment as to afford a constitutional basis
'.Originally docketed as O'Calloghan v. O'Brien.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States in a suit
where diverse citizenship exists to enjoin the enforcement of the decree
of probate, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.

THIS suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the UnitedStates for the District of Washington, Northern Division, by
the filing on June 20, 1901, of a bill on behalf of Hannah
O'Callaghan and Edward Corcoran, appellants in this court.
The defendants were Terence O'Brien, as administrator of the
estate of John Sullivan, and Marie Carrau. W. M. Russell
and S. F. Coombs, who are joined as appellees, were the sureties
on a bond given by Marie Carrau, on the appeal taken by her
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It was averred that the complainants, aliens and residents
of Ireland, were the first cousins and the sole heirs at law and
next of kin of one John Sullivan, who died on September 26,
1900, in the city of Seattle, State of Washington, intestate,
leaving a large amount of real and personal property. The
appointment by the Superior Court of King County, State of
Washington, of a special administrator and the subsequent appointment of the defendant O'Brien and his qualification as
general administrator, were next averred. O'Brien and his
co-defendant were alleged to be citizens of the State of Washington. The remaining averments were, in substance, that
the defendant Marie Carrau, confederating with certain named
relatives, had manufactured a pretended nuncupative will of
John Sullivan, in favor of said Marie Carrau, under which will
she was claiming to be the sole legatee and devisee of all his
property. The will purported to have been made about
11 o'clock on the night previous to the death of Sullivan, in
the presence of Marie Carrau and her relatives, and the testa=
mentary words employed or the substance thereof were alleged
to be the following:
"I want you to remember' and witness that I will all my
property and personal effects, worth many thousands of dollars, to be the money and property of your sister, Marie Carrau.
I am sick, and we know not what might happen."

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

It *as averred that on the application of the defendant
Carrau, and after the appointment of O'Brien as general administrator, the alleged nuncupative will was admitted to
probate, and at the time of the filing of the bill stood as illegally
probated on the records of the Superior Court of King County,
State of Washington. It was, however, charged that the said
Superior Court, in assuming to probate said nuncupative will,
acted wholly without jurisdiction in the premises, for the
reason that the estate bequeathed exceeded the value of two
hundred dollars, and because no legar citations had been
issued out of said court, and ten days had not elapsed between
the filing of the will and the hearing of the proof offered in
support of the same. It was further averred that under the
laws of the State of Washington real estate could not be disposed of by a nuncupative will.
Further averring that the state court, on the application of
Marie Carrau, was about to make and enter a decree distributing to her the whole of the Sullivan estate upon the execution
of a bond conditioned for the payment of her proportion of the
indebtedness of the estate, to which decree the defendant
O'Brien, administrator, it was averred, would yield obedience,
and that said Marie Carrau on receiving possession would
transfer the estate to others, and alleging that such an order
and the action of the administrator thereunder would violate
the due process clause of the Corlstitution of the United States,
an injunction and the appointment of a receiver was prayed.
It was also prayed that a decree might be made adjudging the
alleged nuncupative will to be null and void, and perpetually
restraining the defendant Carrau from setting up any title or
claim thereunder, and adjudging and decreeing the complainants to be the only heirs at law of the decedent and entitled
to receive his estate, and commanding the defendant administrator to surrender possession thereof to and account therefor
to the complainants.
On behalf of O'Brien, administrator, there was filed what was
termed a "stipulation and answer," signed by the complain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

ants and their solicitor and the administrator. In this paper
the appointment of O'Brien was recited, and there was also
embodied a disclaimer of any interest of said administrator in
the subject matter of the controversy between complainants
and the defendant Marie Carrau, or any knowledge in respect
thereto other than as shown by the records. It was stipulated
that no costs should be taxed against the administrator, and
that complainants should not be put to proof of the allegations
of the bill, so far as the same affected the administrator, and
that the stipulation hould be taken as and for an answer of
said defendant administrator to the bill of complaint.
After other proceedings in the cause, not essential to be
stated, an answer was filed on behalf of the defendant Carrau.
Briefly stated, the answer admitted the death of Sullivan,
affirmed the validity of the alleged nuncupative will and of the
probate thereof, and further averred that under the laws of
Washington a nuncupative will, duly proved and probated,
"devises both real and personal property to any amount in
value." After specially answering each of the allegations in
the bill, it was, in substance, averred, "by way of defense and
as questioning the jurisdiction of the court," that the court in
which the alleged will had been probated had the sole, original
and exclusive jurisdiction of the probation of said will and the
management of the estate of the decedent; that in said court
various persons, including one Eugene Timothy Sullivan, a
resident of the State of Washington, had filed their verified
petitions, claiming each to be the sole heir of the decedent;
that certain of said claimants (Sullivan not being one of the
number), and also the complainants and the State of Washington, had commenced in the state court proceedings to contest the validity of the alleged will, and that such proceedings
were at issue and were still pending.
Testimony was taken by commission and otherwise, under
an agreement providing that the same might be read in evidence in any suit or proceeding which was then or might thereafter be pending in a state or Federal court affecting the estate

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

of John Sullivan. Both during the taking of the testimony and
at the hearing which followed, the objection to the jurisdiction
of the court was reiterated and exceptions were reserved.
A decree was entered in favor of complainants. 116 Fed.
Rep. 934. In substance the decree found the complainants
to be the next of kin of the decedent; that O'Brien was the
duly qualified administrator; that the alleged nuncupative
will was not made; that the Washington court acted wholly
without jurisdiction in the probate of the alleged will, and
hence the proceedings in respect thereto were void. It was
decreed that the complainants, as first cousins of the deceased,
were entitled to share equally in the assets of his estate, and
the defendant O'Brien was directed to recognize their right.
The defendant Carrau was perpetually restrained from setting
up any claim to said estate, under the alleged will or otherwise.
On appeal the -Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree
of the Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction in that court over
the subject matter and because of the absence of necessary
parties, who, if made parties, would oust the court of jurisdiction, and the cause was remanded, with directions to dismiss
the bill at the cost of complainants. 125 Fed. Rep. 657. The
cause was appealed to this court. Following the filing of a
motion to dismiss such appeal, an application was made on
behalf of the complainants below for the allowance of a writ
of certiorari, and the determination of these two motions was
postponed to the hearing on the merits.
Mr. James B. Howe, with whom Mr. Samuel H. Piles, Mr.
George Donworth, Mr. Charles H. Farrell and Mr. Frederic D.
McKenney were on the brief, for the petitioners.
On the motion to dismiss. This court has jurisdiction and
the appeal should not be dismissed. Jurisdiction below did
not depend entirely on diverse citizenship. Northern Pacific
v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526; Ayers v. Polsdorfer, 187 U. S.585;
Howard v. United States, 184 U. S. 676; Huguley Mfg. Co. v.
Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290; Loeb v. Columbia Town-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioners.

199 U. S.

ship, 179 U. S. 472; Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S.359; Colorado Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S.138.
The bill also invoked the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
because the case involved the construction and application of
the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent complainants from
being deprived of their property without due process of law,
under authority of the State of Washington, by a judgment
of the state court and proceedings thereon, all rendered and
taken without jurisdiction and without notice to complainants.
As to effect of words "dependent" and "invoked" see
Florida Central v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Cases supra; Am. Sug.
Ref. Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Press Pub. Co. v.
Monroe, 164 U. S. 105, 112; Spreckels v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397.
The bill stated a case involving the application of the Constitution of the United States. See laws of Washington, 1,895,
p. 197, § 1; Corcoran v. Bell, 78 Pac. Rep. 945, and as to nuncupative wills see Laws, 1854, p. 315, § 23; Pierce's Code,
§ 2321, 2331; Ballinger's Jode, § 6083; Code of 1881, § 1330;
and as to service of process, Pierce's Code, §§ 335-337. Also
as to jurisdiction of Superior Court of Washington, Const.
Washington, Art. XXVII, § 10 and Art. IV, § 6.
The question presented by the bill was not simply whether
the decree probating the will was valid or void, but, being void
for want of jurisdiction in the court to render it, the attempt
to take the property of the complainants by authority of the
void decree and under authority of the state court, was a
violation of their rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.
See Fayerweather v. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276.
No judgment of a court is due process of law if rendered
without jurisdiction in the court or without notice to the party.
Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S.226, 234; Earle v. McVeigh, 91 U. S.503, 510; Winsor
v. MeVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 277; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S.409,
417; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, 368; Ex parte Wall, 107
U. S. 289; Cooley's Const. Lim. 353; Lavin v. Savings Bank,
18 Blatchf. 1; Roller v. Stolly, 176 U. S.398.

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

The essential elements of due process of law are notice and
an opportunity to defend. Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427.
The decree of probate was void. Dolan v. Jones, 79 Pac.
Rep. 640; Corcoran v. Bell, 78 Pac. Rep. 945; National Exchange Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257; Smith v. White, 32 Washington, 414; Ball v. Clothier, 34 Washington, 299; In re Leonard's Will, 65 N. J. L. 167; Randolph v. Bayne, 44 California,
370; Charleboisev. Bourdon, 6 Montana, 373; Ashurst v. Fountain, 67 California, 18; Spencer v. Houghton, 68 California, 82;
Haws v. Clark, 37 Iowa, 356; Boales v. Shules, 29 Iowa, 507;
Jones & Magee Co. v. Boggs, 63 Iowa, 589; Sprote v. Marshall,4
Iowa, 344; Hodges v. Brett, 4 Iowa, 345; Melbourn v. Fouts, 4
Iowa, 346; Fernekes v. Case, 75 Iowa, 152; Joinerv. Delta Bank,
71 Mississippi, 382; Hunsaker v. Coffin, 2 Oregon, 107; Northcut v. Lemery, 8 Oregon, 317, 323; Lewis v. Bishop, 19 Washington, 312; Everett Water Co. v. Fleming, 26 Washington, 364.
To allow judgment, rendered without jurisdiction for want
of notice, to be used as a muniment of title to take the property of complainants from the possession of the administrator,
who holds it in trust for them, is an act forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment, and one which can be prevented by injunction before it is consummated, instead of being annulled
after its execution. Waterworks v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65;
Walla Walla v. Water Works, 172 U. S. 1; Pac. Elec. R. Co. v.
Los Angeles, 194 U. S. 112; Pac. Gas. Imp. Co. v. Ellert, 64
Fed. Rep. 421; Nashville &c. Ry. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168.
As to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court where the amount
involved is sufficient for jurisdictional purposes and the r:equisite diversity of citizenship exists, a Circuit Court of the
United States has jurisdiction in equity to enjoin one from
asserting and enforcing a decree of a state court obtained by
fraud and rendered without jurisdiction, where there is no
adequate remedy at law. Howard v. Cordova, 177 U. S. 609;
Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 155; Huntington v. Laidley, 176
U. S. 668; Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 590; Arrowswith v.
Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; National Surety Co. v. State Bank, 120

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioners.

199 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 593; McNeil v. McNeil, 78 Fed. Rep. 834; Graver
v. Faurot, 76 Fed. Rep. 257.
While the probate of a will ex parte is a proceeding in rem
over which a Circuit Court of the United States does not exercise jurisdiction, yet when a state court of general jurisdiction
has jurisdiction by a proceeding inter partes to annul a will and
its probate, a Circuit Court of the United States in such State
has jurisdiction jt lgw or in equity, as the nature of the case
may require, to give the same relief, when the amount involved is sufficient and the requisite diversity of citizenship
exists. Richardson v. Green, 159 U. S. 264; S. C., 61 Fed.
Rep. 432; Crabbe v. Williams, 187 -U. S. 645; Williams v.
Crabbe, 117 Fed. Rep. 193; Wart v. Wart, 117 Fed. Rep. 766;
Sawyer v., White, .122.Fed. Rep. 223; Kieley v. McGlynn (Broderick's Will), 21 Wall. 503; Ellis Y. Davis, 109 U. S. 485; Gaines
v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608; McDonald v. Jordan, 178 U. S: 229; Everhart v. Everhart, 34
Fed. Rep. 82; Broadhead v. Shoemaker, 44 Fed. Rep. 5i8;
Kirby v. Railroad Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 551.
The statute of Washington having given an equitable right
to the heirs of a decedent to contest the will in a Superior Court
of the State, exercising general equity jurisdiction, by a proceeding inter partes, and the Supreme Court of the State having
decided that the suit to enforce such right is of an equitable
nature, the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Washington has jurisdiction to enforce the same right in
this suit. Cases supra and Clayson v. Clayson, 26 Washington,
253; Stratton v. Tallman, 25 Washington, 295; Higgins v.
Nethery, 30 Washington, 239; Bower v. Bower, 5 Washington,
225 Mason v. McLean, 6 Washington, 31; Hill v. Hill, 7
Washington, 408; Purdy v. Purdy, 13 Washington, -164; Boman
v. Boman, 49 Fed. Rep. 329; Land Title Co. v. Asphalt Co.,
.127 Fed. Rep. 1; U. S. Ship Building Co. v. Conklin, 126 Fed.
Rep. 132; Jones v. Mutual Fidelity Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 506.
United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109.
As the question of jurisdiction lay at the threshold, and the

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

intent of the act of March 3, 1891, was that that question
should be determined by this court, the Circuit Court of Appeals should properly have suspended any consideration of the
case upon the merits until that question could be determined
upon certificate.
Mr. William F. Hays, Mr. J. P. Houser, Mr. Joseph W.
Robinson and Mr. John H. Mitchell for respondents submitted:
Jurisdiction was not invoked upon Federal grounds. If
diversity of citizenship is eliminated nothing is left. This appeal should be dismissed. Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47;
Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290; Loeb
v. Columbia County, 179 U. S. 472; Am. Sugar Co. v. New
Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Howard v. United States, 184 U. S. 676;
Northern Pacific v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526; Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359; Florida Central v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321.
The decree of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
was final and cannot be reviewed in this court. Section 6,
act of March 3, 1901, 1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 903; Rule 8 of this.
Court; Carrauv. O'Callaghan, 125 Fed. Rep. 657; United States
v. Taylor, 147 U. S. 695; Ayres v. Polsdorer, 187 U. S. 589.
As to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court the conclusion
reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals was based upon the
constitution and statutes of Washington. Section 6, Art. IV,
Const. Washington.
Sections 851-867, Hill's Ann. Code, contain express provisions for a contest of any will admitted to probate for any
cause affecting the validity of the will, but that this must be
done by petition to the Superior Court, having jurisdiction and
administering such estate. Stratton v. Tallman, 25 Washington, 295; S. C., 29 Washington, 317; Re Al/sted's Estate, 27
Washington, 175; Filley v. Murphy, 30 Washington, 1, 5. And
see §§ 6110, 6347-6377, 2 Ballinger's Code, authorizing the
trial and determination in the probate department of the
state court, of all questions of heirship, as well as the right to
take under wills.
VOL. CXCIX-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

199 U. S.

Such a contest necessarily requires that court to determine
the question of kinship as an issue incident to the right to
contest the will, and the state court in construing these
statutes has uniformly held this to be the law. The probate
department has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction so to do.
Cases supra and Webster v. Seattle Trust Co., 7 Washington,
651; Griffin v. Warburton, 23 Washington, 231; Browder v.
Finney, 30 Washington, 74; In re Murphy's Estate, 30 Washington, 9; Church v. McMillan, 31 Washington, 643.
The Federal courts have never assumed to exercise jurisdiction over probate matters, except owing to some peculiar
statute in the one class of cases, or a clear misapprehension of
what has been decided in certain other cases. Bedjord Quarries
Co. v. Thomlinson, 95 Fed. Rep. 208; Walker v. Brown, 63 Fed.
Rep. 204; Wahl v. Brown, 63 Fed. Rep. 680; In re Cilley, 58
Fed. Rep. 977; Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485; Simmons v. Saul,
138 U. S. 430; Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503; Reed v. Reed,
31 Fed. Rep. 53; In re Aspinwall's Estate, 83 Fed. Rep. 952;
Oakley v. Oakley, 64 Fed. Rep. 246; Blythe v. Hinckley, 84
Fed. Rep. 250. And see Wahl v. Franz, 100 Fed. Rep. 680.
Under the laws of the State of Washington, a will may be
probated ex parte, and when so probated, it amounts to nothing
more nor less than the institution of a special proceeding,
which does not become final for one year, during which time
any person interested may file a petition in contest and litigate
every question going to the validity of the will, its execution
or the probate thereof.
Even if the Federal and the state courts have concurrent
jurisdiction whichever court first assumes jurisdiction will
proceed to a final determination without any interference from
any other court. In re Joseph's Estate, 50 Pac. Rep. 786.
A petition to probate a will is the beginning of a special
proceeding. The order admitting to probate is not final so
long as proceedings may be taken to revoke the probate. In
all subsequent stages the contest is but a part of the proceeding to probate the will and is not a new and distinct proceed-

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing. Higgins v. Nethery, 30 Washington, 239; Estate of Abbie
H. H. Stuart, 34 Washington, 362; Zimmerman v. So. Relle,
80 Fed. Rep. 417; Hughes v. Green, 84 Fed. Rep. 833; Nugent
v. Phila. Traction Co., 87 Fed. Rep. 251; Marks v. Marks, 75
Fed. Rep. 322; Taylor v.-Taintor, 16 Wall. 370; Gamble v.
San Diego, 79 Fed. Rep. 500.
When the statute requires notice of the proceeding to probate or contest a will, the judgment of the court cannot be
collaterally attacked for want of notice if the party not notified
may still contest the will by appeal and trial de novo or by a
statutory action, suit or other proceeding. 16 Enc. P1. & Pr.
1004; Hall v. Hall, 47 Alabama, 290; Herring v. Ricketts, 101
Alabama, 340; Dickey v. Vann, 81 Alabama, 425; Wetmore
v. Parker, 52 N. Y. 450. All questions to be determined in
this action are now or have been pending in the state court of
Washington, and were so pending, before the Federal court
assumed jurisdiction and so far the state courts, in the exeapise
of the powers and duties lodged with them, have held that the
probate court In re Estate of John Sullivan, deceased, acquired
jurisdiction to probate the nuncupative will and that the decree
probating the same found all the jurisdictional facts required
by the statute.
It is conceded that the probate court, administering this estate, must distribute the estate and in making a decree of distribution, it must necessarily determine who the heirs and legatees of this estate are, if any there be. So far, the state
courts have held the will valid and the nuncupative statute
constitutional. The Federal court will not now hold that the
probate court had no jurisdiction and annul the decree entered
therein to maintain its jurisdiction.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss the appeal and the application for
the allowance of a writ of certiorari will first be passed upon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

While the alienage of complainants and the citizenship of respondents was alleged, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
not invoked solely upon that ground. It was asserted in the
bill that the requirements of the Code of Washington had not
been complied with in respect to the preliminary issue of citations to the next of kin of the decedent; that the hearing on
the application to probate the alleged nuncupative will was
had before service of citations in the mode prescribed by law,
and as at the time of the filing of the bill six months had elapsed
without lawful probate of the will, the title of complainants
to the property as heirs and next of kin of the intestate had
become absolute. The use by the defendant Carrau of the decree of probate as a muniment of title with which to obtain
from the administrator under the authority of the state court
the property of complainants in the custody of the administrator was, as a consequence, asserted to amount to a deprivation of property without due process of law, in violation of the
Constitution of the United States.
The statute which it was asserted limited the authority of
the Washington court to probate the nuncupative will in question, to a lawful probate thereof within six months of the speaking of the testamentary words, is as follows:
"No proof shall be received of any nuncupative will unless
offered within six months after speaking the testamentary
words, nor unless the words or the substance thereof be first
committed to writing and a citation issued to the widow or next
of kin of the deceased, that they may contest the will if they
think proper." Pierce's Code, 2352.
It is settled that the mere averment of a constitutional question is not sufficient, where the question sought to be-presented
is so wanting in merit as to cause it to. be frivolous or without
any support whatever in reason. Fayerweather v. Ritch, 195
U. S. 276, 299. We think that the alleged violations of Federal
right based upon the Fourteenth Amendment were so unsubstantial and devoid of rnarit that they furnish no real support
to the contention that the decree of the Circuit Court of Ap-

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opiriion of the Court.

peals was not final. From this it follows that the motion to dismiss must prevail. But we are not thereby relievedof the duty
of considering the correctness of the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, because in our opinion .the case is one in which the
writ of certiorari should be allowed. We therefore dismiss the
appeal and grant the application for certiorari, treating tb
record filed on the appeal as a return to that writ. Before
coming, however, to dispose of the case, we observe that we do
not at this moment state the reabons by which we are led to the
conclusion that the rights asserted under the Constitution of
the United States were so wholly wanting in merit as not to
afford a basis for the appeal, because those reasons will be made
manifest when we come to consider the question whether the
bill was one within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The issue first for decision is, Did the Circuit Court of Appeals
rightly hold that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction of
the case made by the bill?
The solution of the question is not free from complexity.
Original reasoning is not, however, required, since the subject
has been previously considered by this court. We come, therefore, to an analysis of the leading cases. It results from the
analysis which we have made of the bill that by necessary effect
it assailed the previous probate and the existence of the will,
and, besides, under the hypbthesis that a will and probate
might be found to exist, sought to limit the operation and effect
of-the will. The subject, therefore, has a twofold aspect, the
power of Federal courts to entertain jurisdiction concerning
the probate or the revocation of the probate of wills, where the
requisite diversity of citizenship exists, and the power of those
courts, where such diversity obtains, to adjudicate concerning
rights against the estates of decedents. Whilst we shall consider these two subjects separately, to avoid repetition we shall
first consecutively analyze the cases concerning both subjects.
In Hook v. Payne, 14 Wall. 252, certain distributees of an
estate over which an administrator had been appointed in a
court of Missouri, alleging diversity of citizenship, filed their

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

separate bills in a Circuit Court of the United States, for the
purpose of annulling releases which they had given as to their
distributive shares to the administrator, on the ground of his
fraud, and also sought to annul settlements alleged to have
been fraudulently made in the Probate Court, and to have a decree against the administrator for the amount of their distributive .shares. The several suits were consolidated. The trial
court, by an interlocutory decree, set aside the releases and
the settlements made by Hook (the administrator) with the
county court, and appointed a master to state an account with
Hook as administrator. Moreover, the master was directed to
inquire what other persons were interested in the estate, and
to report what payments, if any, had been made to them, and
what was due to them respectively at the date of the report.
The report of the master not only accorded the relief claimed
by the complainants, but restated the accounts of the administrator, and in effect reported a scheme of distribution of the
estate. The report was approved by the trial court. In this
court the decree, in so far as it concerned the rights of the
complainants, was affirmed. In so far as it attempted to distribute the estate and to deal generally with the rights of
persons, other than the complainants, the decree was reversed,
the court saying (p. 255):
"We are of opinion that all that part of the decree which attempts to settle the rights of the parties, who were neither plaintiffs nor defendants in the original suit, must be reversed.
"We do not propose, in this case, to lay down any precise
rule on the subject of adjusting administrator's accounts in the
Federal courts, or how far certain persons, not made parties to
the original suit, or incapable of being madte parties by reason
of their citizenship, may or may not come in before the master,
on a general accounting, and protect their rights; nor do we
intend to go into that question."
In Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503, the case was this: A suit in
equity was brought in the Circuit--Court for the District of California by the alleged heirs at law of Broderick to set aside the

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

probate of his will, to have the same declared a forgery, and to
recover the assets of Broderick's estate, much of which consisted of real property. The defendants were the executors,
and several hundred persons who were in possession of portions
of the real estate, claiming ownership thereof as purchasers at
sales made by the executors. The estate had been administered upon and distribution had been fully made before the institution of the suit. The first contention which the court disposed of was that a court of equity had no jurisdiction of the
subject matter of the suit, the same being vested exclusively
in the probate court of the city and county of San Francisco.
In sustaining this objection the court, through Mr. Justice Bradley, said (p. 509):
"As to the first point, it is undoubtedly the general rule,
established both in England and this country, that a court of
equity will not entertain jurisdiction of a bill to set aside a will
or the probate thereof. The case of Kerrick v. Bransby, decided by the House of Lords in 1727, is considered as having
definitely settled the question. Whatever may have been the
original ground of this rule (perhaps something in the peculiar
constitution of the English courts) the most satisfactory ground
for its continued prevalence is, that the constitution of a succession to a deceased person's estate partakes, in some degree,
of the nature of a proceeding in rem, in which all persons in the
world who have any interest are deelned parties, and are concluded as upon res judicata by the decision of the court having
jurisdiction. The public interest requires that the estates of
deceased persons, being deprived of a master, and subject to
all manner of claims, should at once devolve to a new and competent ownership; and, consequently, that there should be
some convenient jurisdiction 'id mode of proceeding by which
this devolution may be effected with least chance of injustice
and fraud; and that the result attained should be firm and
perpetual. The courts invested with this jurisdiction should
have am)hi powers both of process and investigation, and sufficient opportunity should be given to check and revise proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

ings tainted with mistake, fraud, or illegality. These objects
are generally accomplished by the constitution and powers
which are given to the Probate Courts, and the modes provided
for reviewing their proceedings. And one of the principal reasons assigned by the equity courts for not entertaining bills on
questions of probate is, that the Probate Courts themselves
have all th'e powers and machinery necessary to give full and
adequate relief.
"In England after the acts of Parliament had authorized
devises of real estate, the same position was assumed by courts
of equity in regard to such devises; it being held that any
fraud, illegality, or mistake affecting their validity could be
fully investigated and redressed in the courts of common law,
where only devises were cognizable."
After a full review of authorities, holding that a court of
equity did not possess power to annul the probate of a will, and
in concluding its opinion, referring to a statute of the State of
California, the court observed (p. 519):
"The statute of 1862 has been referred to, which gives to the
District Courts of California power to set aside a will obtained
by fraud or undue influence, or a forged will, and afiy probate
obtained by fraud, concealment, or perjury. Whilst it is true
that alterations in the jurisdiction of the state courts cannot
affect the equitable jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the
United States, so long as the equitable rights theinselves remain, yet an enlargement of equitable rights may be administered by the Circuit Courts, as well as by the courts of the.State.
And this is probably a case in which an enlargement of equitable rights is effected, although presented in the form of a
remedial proceeding. Indeed, much of equitable jurisdiction
consists of better and more effective remedies for attaining the
rights of parties. But the statute referred to cannot affect
this suit, inasmuch as the statute of limitations would still apply
in.full force, and would present a perfect bar to the suit."
In Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10, the facts were these: A
will of Daniel Clark had been probated in the Second District

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana.

Distribu-

tion of the estate had been completed, when certain parties
brought an action in the court named to annul the alleged will
and to recall the decree by which it was probated. The hlleged daughter of Daniel Clark was made a party defendant,
and it was averred that suits had been brought by her against
the plaintiffs, in a Circuit Court of the United States, as heir at
law of her father, to recover certain property alleged to belong
to his estate, and that the existence of the decree of probate was
an obstacle to the proper defense of those suits, and made it
necessary to sue to annul the will and avoid the decree of probate. Application was made to remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States, which the state court refused,
on the ground that the suit involved merely a probate matter,
and was therefore not cognizable in the Federal court. From
a final decree of the state court in favor of the plaintiffs the
cause was brought to this court. It was decided that the state
court erred in refusing to permit the removal. In the opening
passage of the opinion the court pointed out that, whilst the suit
was, in form, one to annul the alleged will of Daniel Clark and
to recall the decree by which it was probated, it was in reality
a suit brought against the devisee, and by strangers to the
estate, to annul the will as a muniment of title, and to restrain
the enforcement of the decree by which its validity had been
established so far as it affected their property. The court observed:
"It is, in fact, an action between parties; and the question
for determination is, whether the Federal court can take jurisdiction of an action brought for the object mentioned between
citizens of different States, upon its removal from a state court."
The decision in the case of Broderick's Will, concerning the
want of power in a court of equity to probate a will or revoke
its probate, was expiessly approved. But, referring doubtless
to the concluding passage in the opinion in that case, it was observed that if such equitable power was vested in the state
courts the Federal courts sitting in the States where such stat-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

utes existed might exercise concurrent jurisdiction in a case
between proper parties. Considering the want of authority
of Federal courts, as such, over the probate of wills, it was declared (p. 21):
"There are, it is true, in several decisions of this ecourt, expressions of opinion that the Federal courts have no probate
jurisdiction, referring particularly to the establishment of wills;
and such is undoubtedly the case under the existing legislation
of Congress. The reason lies in the nature of the proceeding to
probate a will as one in ram, which does not necessarily involve
any controversy between parties: indeed, in the majority of instances, no such controversy exists. In its initiation all persons are cited to appear, whether of the State where the will is
offered, or of other States. From its nature, and from the
want of parties, or the fact that all the world are parties, the
proceeding is not within- the-designation of cases at law or in
equity between parties of different States, of which the Federal
courts have concurrent jurisdiction with the state courts under
the judiciary act; but whenever a cofitroversy in a suit between
such parties arises respecting the validity or construction of a
will, or the.enforcement of a decree admitting it to probate,
there is no more reason why the-Federal courts should not take
jurisdiction of the case than there is that they should not take
jurisdiction of any other controversy between the parties."
Having decided that the suit was in all essential particulars
one inter partes, for equitable relief to cancel an instrument
alleged to be void and to restrain the enforcement of- a decree
alleged to have been obtained by false and insufficient testimony, the court was brought to consider whether the law of
Louisiana allowed such equitable relief, and said (p. 20):
"There are no separate equity courts in Louisiana, and suits
for special relief of the nature here sought are not there designated suits of eq\uity. But they are none the less essentially
such suits; and if by the law obtaining in the State, customary
or statutory, they can be maintained in a state court, whatever
designation that court may bear, we think they may be main-

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained by original process in a Federal court, where the parties
are, on the one side, citizens of Louisiana, and, on the other,
citizens of other States."
In Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S.485, the will of Mrs. Dorsey had
been duly proved in a Probate Court of Louisiana, and the universal legatee named therein had been recognized and put in
possession of the estate under the will. Some time after a bill
was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States against him
for the two-fold purpose of setting aside the probate and annulling the will, on the ground that it had been made under undue
influence, and for similar reasons, the annullment was prayed
of a conveyance which had been made by the deceased to the
universal legatee. An account of the rents and profits, etc.,
was also prayed. A demurrer to the bill was sustained and the
case came to this court. It was decidcd that the court below
had rightly sustained the demurrer. In the course of the
opinion the court declared (p. 497):
"The original probate (of wills), of course, is mere matter of
state regulation, and depends entirely upon the local law; for
it is that law which confers the power of making wills, and prescribes the conditions upon which alone they may take effect;
and as, by the law in almost all the States, no instrument can
be effective as a will until proved, no rights in relation to it,
capable of being contested between parties, can arise until preliminary probate has been first made. Jurisdiction as to wills,
and their probate as such, is neither- included in nor excepted
out of the grant of judicial power to the courts of the United
States. So far as it is ex parte and merely administrative, it is
not conferred, and it cannot be exercised by them at all until,
in a case at law or in equity, its exercise becomes necessary to
settle a controversy over which a court of the United.States may
take cognizance by reason of the citizenship of the parties."
The court expressly reaffirmed the want of power in a Federal
court of equity to set aside the probate of a will in the absence
of a state statute giving the right in the courts of the State to
such equitable relief, it being reiterated (p. 494):

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

"It is well settled that no such jurisdiction belongs to the
Circuit Courts of the United States as courts of equity; for
courts of equity as such, by virtue of their general authority
to enforce equitable rights and remedies, do not administer
relief in such cases. The question in this aspect was thoroughly
considered and finally settled by the decision of this court in
the case of Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503."
Coming to consider whether, by the customary or statute
law of Louisiana, there existed power in the courts of that State,
as a matter of equitable cognizance, to entertain a suit to annul
a will and set aside its probate, it was decided that no such
right existed, but that, on the contrary, the Louisiana law,
whilst denying such right, afforded relief in an action at law,
where the recovery of property was sought, by permitting the
validity of a will and its probate, when asserted as a muniment
of title, to be collaterally questioned. The court said (p. 499):
"It remains, therefore, in the present case to inquire whether
the complainants are entitled, under the laws of Louisiana, to
draw in question, in this mode and with a view to the decree
sought, the validity of the will of Sarah Ann Dorsey and the
integrity of its probate.
"An examination of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana on the subject will disclose that a distinction is made
in reference to proceedings to annul a will and its probate,
according to the objects to be accomplished by the judgment
and the relation of the parties to the subject. If the administration of the succession is incomplete and in fieri, and the
object is to alter or affect its course, the application must be
made to the court of probates, which, in that case, has possession of the subject and exclusive jurisdiction over it. If, on
the other hand, the succession has been closed, or has proceeded
so far that the parties entitled under the will have been put in
possession of their rights to the estate, then the resort of adverse claimants must be to an action of revendication in the
courts of general jurisdiction, in which the legal title is asserted as against the will claimed to be invalid, making an issue involving that question."

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Following this statement the court made an exhaustive review of the decided cases in the State of Louisiana, establishing the proposition just previously quoted; and, as a necessary
result of this conclusion, the court declared that in Gaines v.
Fuentes it had been merely assumed that relief in the nature of
an equitable remedy was allowed by the law of Louisiana, under
which the probate of a will could be set aside, saying (pp.
499, 503):
"It was assumed [in that case], and not decided, that the
said suit brought in the state court was one which, under the
laws of the State, its courts were authorized to entertain for
the purpose of granting the relief prayed for. The point decided was, that if it were it might properly be transferred to a
court of the United States."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The case of Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10, was such an action of nullity, but, as before remarked, the point decided in
that case was not that it would lie, according to the law of
Louisiana, but that if it would lie in the state court it was removable to the Circuit Court of the United States, because it
presented a controversy wholly between citizens of different
States."
In Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, it was decided that a
Federal court cannot exercise original jurisdiction in respect to
the administration of the estate of a decedent, and that it cannot, by entertaining jurisdiction of a suit against the administrator draw to itself the full possession of the estate, or the
power of determining all claims against or to it. It was, however, decided that where the estate of a deceased person is ready
for distribution, but no adjudication has been made as to the
distributees, the Circuit Court can entertain jurisdiction in favor
of citizens of other States to determine and award their shares
in the estate. It is true that the bill filed in the case assailed
the validity of the probate of a document which disposed, ifn
favor of two corporations, of a house and lot in the city of
Pittsburg. But the trial court gave effect to the document as

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

a declaration of trust, and the controversy on that branch of
the case was not pressed on the appeal.
Let us, then, first deduce the principles established by the
foregoing authorities as to the power of a court of the United
States over the probate or revocation of the probate of a will.
An analysis of the cases, in. our opinion, clearly establishes the
following:
First. That, as the authority to make wills is derived from
the State and the requirement of probate is but a regulation to
make a will effective, matters of pure probate, in the strict
sense of the words, are not within the jurisdiction of courts of
the United States.
Second. That where a state law, statutory or customary,
gives to the citizens of the State, in an action or suit inter partes,
the right to question at law the probate of a will or to assail
probate in a suit in equity the courts of the United States in
administering the rights of citizens of other States or aliens
will enforce such remedies.
The only dispute possible under these propositions may
arise from a difference of opinion as to the true significance of
the expression "action or suit inter partes," as employed in the
second proposition. When that question is cleared up the
propositions are so conclusively settled by the cases referred
to that they are indisputable. Before coming to apply the
propositions we must, therefore, accurately fix the meaning
of the words action or suit inter partes.
The cited authorities establish that the words referred to
must relate only to independent controversies inter partes, and
not to'mere controversies which may arise on an application to
probate a will because the state law provides for notice, or to
disputes concerning the setting aside of a probate, when the
remedy to set aside afforded by the state law is a mere continuation of the probate proceeding, that is to say, merely a
method of procedure ancillary to the original probate, allowed
by the state law for the purpose of giving to the probate its
ultimate and final effect. We say the words action or suit

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inter partes must have this significance, because unless that be
their import it would follow that a State may not allow any
question to be raised concerning the right to probate at the
time of the application, or any such question thereafter to be
made in an ancillary probate proceeding without depriving
itself of its concededly exclusive authority over the probate of
wills. This may be readily illustrated. Thus, if a state law
provides for any form of notice on an application to probate a
will and authorizes a contest before the admission of the writing to probate, then it would follow, if the words suit or action
of inter partes embrace such a contest, the proof of wills, if contested by a citizen of another State or alien, would be cognizable in the courts of the United States and hence not under the
exclusive control of the state probate court. Again, if a State
authorized a will to be proved in common form, that is, without
notice, and allowed a supplementary probate proceeding by
which the probate in common form could be contested, then,
again, if such a contest be a suit inter partes it would also be of
Federal cognizance.
Having fixed the meaning of the words action or suit inter
partes we come to apply the propositions deduced from the
decided cases, in order to test the question of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court over the relief prayed for in the bill, so far
as relates to the annulment of the probate. This requires us
to determine, whether by custom or by the statute law of the
State of Washington, the courts of that State had the power
of administering the relief prayed for on that subject in the
bill by Ai independent suit as distinguished from the exercise
of probate jurisdiction originally or merely ancillary. There
is no pretense of any custom in the State of Washington beyond the scope of the authority conferred upon the courts of
the State by the laws thereof. The question, therefore, re-,
duces itself to a narrow compass, that is, what remedies do the
laws of Washington create for the purpose of the probate of
wills and the revocation of a probate, and are those remedies
exclusively probate in their character or necessarily merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

ancillary thereto, or do they confer upon the state courts
general legal or equitable authority on the subject merely because of the existence of a controversy? That is to say, is a
will contest under the laws of Washington an ordinary action
or suit between parties or a special probate proceeding directly
ancillary to or concerning the probate of the will?
By section 5 of article IV of the constitution of Washington
it was provided that there should be in each of the organized
counties of the State a superior court, and by section 6 of the
same article original jurisdiction was conferred upon such
court in equity cases and cases at law, and over specified
crimes, etc., and it was vested with original jurisdiction "of
all matters of probate." By such statute such courts, in the
exercise of their jurisdiction over matters of probate, were
authorized:
"1. To take proof of wills, and to grant letters testamentary
and of administration.
"2. To settle the estates of deceased persons, and the
accounts of executors, administrators, and guardians.
"3. To allow or reject claims against the estates of the deceased persons as hereinafter provided.
"5. To award process, and cause to come before them all
persons whom they may deem it necessary to examine, whether
parties or witnesses or, who, as executors, administrators, or
guardians, or otherwise, shall be intrusted with or in any
way accountable for any property belonging to any minor,
orphan, or person of unsound mind, or estate of any deceased
person.
"6. To order and cause to be issued all writs which may be
necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction." Ballinger's
Annotated Codes and Statutes of Washington, sec. 6075.
Applications for the probate of a will or for letters testamentary are required to be made to the judge of the Superior
Court having jurisdiction, and he is authorized, in the case of
ordinary wills, on the exhibition of the will, to receive the proof

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and grant a certificate of probate, or if such will be rejected to
issue a certificate of rejection. Ballinger, §§ 681, 862, 6100.
Testimony given in support of a will is to be reduced to writing, signed by the witnesses, and certified by the judge of the
court, and wills admitted to probate are required to be recorded. Ballinger, §§ 6105, 6106.
After defining a nuncupative will, the statutes of Washington provide as follows:
"No proof shall be received of any nuncupative will, unless
it be offered within six months after speaking the testamentary
words, nor unless the words, or the substance thereof, be first
committed to writing, and a citation issued to the widow or
next of kin of the deceased, that they may contest the will if
they think proper." Ballinger, § 4606.
Proceedings to contest a will after admission to probate or to
secure probate after a certificate of rejection are regulated by
the following sections of the code:
"If any person interested in any will shall appear within one
year after the probate or rejection thereof, and, by petition to
the superior court having jurisdiction, contests the validity of
.said will, or prays to have the will proven which has been rejected, he shall file a petition containing his objections and exceptions to said will, or the rejection thereof. Issues shall be
made up, tried and determined in said court respecting the
competency of the deceased to make last will and testament,
or respecting the execution by the deceased of such last will
and testament under restraint or undue influence or fraudulent
representation, or for any other cause affecting the validity of
such will." Ballinger, § 6110.
"Upon the filing of the petition referred to in the next preceding section, a citation shall be issued to the executors who
have taken upon them the execution of the will, or to the administrators with the will annexed, and to. all legatees named
in the will residing in the State, or to their guardians if any of
them are minors, or their personal representatives if any of
them are dead, requiring them to appear before the court on
VOL. CXCIX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

a day therein specified, to show cause why the petition should
not be granted." Ballinger, § 6111:
"If no person shall appear within the time aforesaid, the
probate or rejection or such will shall be binding, save [as] to
infants, married women, persons absent from the United States,
or of unsound mind, a period of one year after their respective
disabilities are removed." Ballinger, § 6112.)
"If, upon the trial of said issue, it shall be decided that the
will is for any reason invalid, or that it is not sufficiently proved
to have been the last will of the testator, the will and probate
thereof shall be annulled and revoked." Ballinger, § 6114.
These statutory provisions have been decided by the Supreme Court of Washington to apply as well to a contest of a
nuncupative will as to one of an ordinary will. State ex rel.
Stratton, Attorney General, v. Tallman, Judge, 25 Wash. 295;
29 Wash. 317.
We are of the opinion that the sections in question authorize
a proceeding for contest only before the court which has admitted the will to probate or rejected the application made for
probate, and that the authority thus conferred concerning the
contest is an essential part of the probate procedure created by
the laws of Washington, and does not, therefore, cause a contest, when filed, to become an ordinary suit between parties.
This is plainly indicated by the fact that the proceeding provided by the statute concerns not only revocation of the probate
of a will, but also the right to petition for the probate of a will
where an application to probate it had been previously rejected. The context of the legislation in question also clearly
establishes that the authorized proceeding is but supplementary
to, and a continuation of, the original proceeding in probate.
This is indicated both by the form of the petition which is required to be filed and the character of the proof which may be
considered on that petition. That the statute does not contemplate a formal suit, but a mere summary and ancillary proceeding, is shown by the circumstance that the petitioner is
merely required to state in his petition "his objections and

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

exceptions to said will, or to the rejection thereof," and on the
statement of these objections in the petition, without the formality of the technical pleadings customary in ordinary suits
inter partes, the statute requires that specified issues be then
made.up for hearing. And, further, the terms of section 876
treat the contest as not an ordinary suit between parties, since
it is made the duty of the court to revoke the probate if for any
reason the will is invalid, or if "it is not sufficiently proved to have

been the last willof the testator." Moreover, it is evident that
the statute contemplates that the court, when acting on a contest filed under its provisions, is not confined to the exertion of
powers which would properly be exerted in an ordinary suit
inter partes, since the statute causes a decree in favor of the
petitioner, revoking a will already admitted to probate, to
inure not only to the benefit of the particular contestant, but
to be operative as to the whole world. This follows from the
provision of the statute saying that if the court finds in favor
of the petitionr who sought the revocation of a probate "the
will and the probate thereof shall be annulled and revoked."
It is insisted in argument that the Supreme Court of Washington has referred to a will contest under the statutes of that
State as a suit or action, and from this the inference is deduced
that the proceeding is one inter partes,in the broad sense of the
term, and not a part of the probate proceedings. But we do
not consider that the cases relied on do more than use the term
suit or action as a convenient form of expression. The view
taken by the Supreme Court of Washington as to the substantive nature of a will contest is illustrated by its opinion in
Hunt v. Phillips, 34 Washington, 362, where the court, in
opening its opinion, referred to the case before it as "a proceeding in contest of the will," etc.
But the opinion of the Supreme Court of Washington as to the

nature of a will contest under the statute of Washington does
not depend upon the mere inference deducible from the characterization which the court has given to that proceeding. In
Montrose v. Byrne, 24 Washington, 288, it was expressly held

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

that the statutory proceeding to establish a will was special in its
charactet, so much so that in a contest concerning the same
the parties were necessarily limited to the question of the execution or validity of the will and the right to admit the same to
probate, and therefore issues concerning the construction of
the will or the vesting of property thereunder could not be considered in a contest proceeding.
It follows that as the Circuit Court of the United States had
no jurisdiction to admit a will to probate, or to entertain a pure
probate proceeding, and as the remedy afforded by the laws of
Washington to secure the probate or the revocation of the probate of a will were proceedings of a purely probate character,
'and not an action or suit inter partes, the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly decided that the Circuit Court, although there
was diversity of citizenship, was without jurisdiction of the
cause so far as the bill sought a declaration of the non-existence
of a will and the consequent nullity of the probate.
It remains only to consider the bill under its other aspects.
The contention that the state court in admitting the nuncu-

pative will to probate violated the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States rests upon two propositions: (a) The law of the State, it
is contended, required that proof of an alleged nuncupative will
should be offered within six months after the speaking of the
testamentary words, and that notice should issue to the next
of kin as a prerequisite to the power to entertain the application for probate. As here it is said the proof established that
the hearing as to probate was had without the notice required
by the statute, therefore the admission to probate was a violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. (b) As under the
laws of Washington it is asserted real estate could not be devised by a nuncupative will, therefore, the contention is, the
Probate Court had no jurisdiction over such real estate or the
rents, issues and profits thereof, and hence an attempt by
that court to exert authority over that character of property

FARRELL v. O'BRIEN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amounted to depriving the heirs at law of such property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We are of opinion that the proposition, resting upon the want
of notice, did not furnish a basis for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The contention rests upon the assumption that
the failure to give the notice under the state law was so essentially a prerequisite to a hearing on the question of probate that
a probate made without the notice was null and void, and could
collaterally be so treated. In State ex rel. Stratton, Attorney
General, v. Tallman, Judge of the Superior Court, 25 Washington, 295, the contrary doctrine was expressly held. That case
concerned a collateral controversy relating to the very estate
here in question. The Attorney General had filed in the Probate Court. a motion praying for the vacation of the order
admitting the will to probate, and to set aside all the proceedings leading up to the probate of the will, upon the
grounds that the court acquired no jurisdiction to hear any
evidence in support of the will, because no citation was issued
as required by law as the citation was issued on the day it
bears date, and was immediately returned by the sheriff without making any effort to find any of the heirs of deceased or
any person interested in the estate, and because the deceased
never made or attempted to publish and declare the will. The
Probate Court having refused to entertain the motion, for the
reason that the State was not an interested party, original proceedings by mandamus were commenced in the Supreme Court
.of the State to compel the court to hear and decide the motion.
The Supreme Court, however, refused the writ, on the ground
that any appropriate proceeding to contest the probate was
provided in the statutes, which gave a year in which to make
the contest, and that, conceding the interest of the State, it
nevertheless could not by a mere motion raise the question of
the validity of the probate. But, let us concede, for the sake
of the argument only, that under the Washington statutes the
requirement of notice was essential to the preliminary probate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

and if by its omission the parties were deprived of or lost their
right to deny the existence of the will, or to question its probate, that the absence of the notice might afford substantial
ground to contend that rights protected by the Constitution of
the United States had been violated. These concessions, however, cannot control this case. As the theory of the bill was,
and as undoubtedly it was also the law of Washington, that
despite the mere preliminary admission to probate, there was
full right to assail the existence of the will and its probate, which
was not lost by the failure to give notice, it must follow that
such omission did not deprive of the right to a hearing, which
right was adequately conferred by the statute, wholly irrespective of whether the notice on the preliminary probate had or
had not been given. Indeed, the contention made on this
subj ect amounts to asserting that every state law which provides for a probate in common form is repugnant to the due
process clause of the Constitution, even although under the
state statutes full and adequate probate remedies are provided
by which interested parties may subsequently, within a time
fixed by law, be heard in the probate proceedings to question
the existence of a will or its probate. When the result of the
proposition is thus ascertained it becomes obvious that it is not
only opposed to the theory upon which the bill was framed, but
is so in conflict with the adjudications of this court, to which
we have previously referred, that it is devoid of all foundation
in reason to such an extent as to prevent it from affording a
basis for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
We think also the claim of the want of due process of law
arising from the contention that in the State of Washington a
nuncupative will does not pass title to real estate, and therefore
a violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment would arise if the Probate Court acted upon the contrary
assumption, was clearly devoid of all reasonable foundation.
It is not denied that under the law of Washington, in cases of
intestacy as well as of testacy, both real and personal property
is taken into the control of and is administered by the Probate

THE ELIZA LINES.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Court. And as it is obvious on the face of the bill that the averment referred to was wholly subordinate to the determination
of the existence of the alleged nuncupative will and the validity
of the probate thereof, a question over which the Circuit Court
did not have jurisdiction, it results that the bill upon constitutional or other grounds, did not present a case warranting
the court in passing upon the construction and effect of the
will.
There was no error in the action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and its judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

THE ELIZA LINES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 12. Argued April 11, 12, 13, 1905.-Decided October 30; 1895.

'A vessel bound on a voyage from Pensacola to Montevideo with a cargo of
lumber under a charter party, "the dangers of the seas, fire and navigation always mutually excepted" was abandoned, justifiably, in consequence of dangers of the seas and was afterwards picked up by salvors and
brought into Boston. The master who was at St. John was notified
and claimed the vessel and cargo from the salvors, stating his intention
to repair the vessel and complete the voyage, to which cargo-owners
objected claiming that the voyage was abandoned and they were entitled to the cargo and obtained an order for its sale. The Circuit Court
held that the master should have been allowed to complete the voyage
and earn freight and charged the cargo-owners personally with the net
freight. Held error, and that the abandonment of the vessel by the master and crew gave the cargo-owners the right to refuse to go on with the
voyage and that they were not to be treated as guilty of breach of contract for preventing the continuance of the voyage by their refusing to
do so and procuring the sale.
An open cessation of performance with the intent to do no more, even if
justified, excuses the other party from further performance on his side.
The same principles which apply to the making of a contrct apply to the
breach of it, and to nonperformance of the conditions attached to the other
side.
If there is no injustice it is desirable that the maritime law of this country
and of England should agree.

