PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

I

Syllabus.

whatsoever, shall be introduced, or entertained in either house
of the General Assembly except by petition, to be signed by
the persons desiring such privilege, of which sixty days' notice
shall be given to all persons interested, and be published in
the newspaper having the largest circulation in the county
where such privilege is to be enjoyed, once a week for three
weeks, etc.
As this is not a constitutional provision, but a general law
enacted by the legislature, it may be repealed, amended or
disregarded by the legislature which enacted it. This law was
doubtless intended as a guide to persons desiring to petition
the legislature for special privileges, and it would be a good
answer to any petition for the granting of svich privileges that
the required notice had not been given; but it is not binding
upon any subsequent legislature, nor does a. non-compliance
with it impair or nullify the provisions of an act passed without the requirement of such notice.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

PETRI v. F. E. CREELMAN LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 49.

Argued November 7, 1005,-DLcded December 4, 1905.

Where it is plainly apparent on the record that the only matters tried and decided in the Circuit Court were demurrers to pleas to the jurisdiction, and
the petition upon which the writ ot error was allowed asked only for the review of the judgment which decided that the court had no jurisdiction, no
bill of exceptions or formal certificate in respect to the matter decided is
required and the writ of error will not be dismissed because authenticated

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.'

199 U. S.

by a judge other than the trial judge and not made at the term in which
the judgment was entered.
The rule that repeals by implication are not favored and a repeal will not
be implied unless there be an irreconcilable conflict between the two statutes applies especially where the prior law is a special act relating to a particular case or subject and the subsequent law is general in its operation.
The special provisions of the act of March 2, 1887, 24 Stat. 442, relating to judicial districts of Illinois, were not repealed by the general terms of the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
PLAINTIFFS in error, suing as aliens and residents of Antwerp, Belgium, commenced this action in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern Division of the Northern
District of Illinois, to recover damages for an alleged libel'
Two Illinois corporations and a number of persons were made
defendants. The bill as to the corporations alleged citizenship
in Illinois, and, as- to all the defendants, except the Creelman Lumber Company and F. E. Creelman, one of the individual defendants, the bill alleged that the defendants resided in the district and division where the suit was brought.
The Creelman Lumber Company and F. E. Creelman filed
pleas to the jurisdiction of the court, based upon the fact that
each of them, before and at the time of the commencement of
the suit, although citizens of the State of Illinois, were residents
of a different district from the one in which the suit was brought,
that is, the Southern District of Illinois. To these pleas the
plaintiffs demurred, and, on a hearing, a District Judge, holding the Circuit Court, overruled the demurrers, and held the
pleas to the jurisdiction good. The plaintiffs electing to stand
upon their demurrers to the pleas, the action as to the defendants in question was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Some
time afterwards a bill of exceptions was signed by a Circuit
Judge, in which was recited the action taken by the trial court
upon the demurrer to the jurisdictional pleas aforesaid, and
the cause was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals. That
court, however, dismissed the writ of error, and on the receipt
of its mandate, about a year after the entry of the judgment
of dismissal above referred to, there was filed in the trial court

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

a certificate of the Circuit Judge, in which was set out the
proceedings had in the cause, and it was certified, for the purpose of a writ of error from this court, that the only question
involved in such writ of error was one of jurisdiction.- It was
also certified that the judge who had heard the cause resided
in the Southern District of Illinois, and was not within the
territorial limits of the Northern District of Illinois. Cotemporaneous with the filing of the certificate a writ of error was
allowed, and in the petition and assignments of errors it clearly
appeared that the writ of error was prosecuted solely upon the
question of jurisdiction arising from overruling of the demurrers to the pleas to the jurisdiction.
Mr. Consider H. Willett for plaintiffs in error submitted:
Plaintiffs being aliens, having a cause of action against defendants, citizens of Illinois, some residing in the Northern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois where suit was
brought, a duplicate summons could issue to defendants residents of the Southern District of Illinois. T. &c., R. R. v.
Atl. &c. R. R., 49 Fed. Rep. 608; Goddard v. Mailler, 80 Fed.
Rep. 422; Steel & Iron Co. v. Chormann, 105 Fed. Rep. 532;
Hughes Fed. Pro., 234.
Rev. Stat. § 740, § 1 of the act of May 4, 1858, 11 Stat.
272, is still in force and effect, and authorized and justified
the procedure adopted, and gave the court jurisdiction, of the
defendants by virtue of the service on them of the duplicate
writ. See also act of March 2, 1887, amending § 536, Rev.
Stat.; United States v. Fisher, 109 U. S. 143; and the act of
August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433.
The fact that the first statute is special and the later statutes
are general creates a presumption that the first special statute
is to be construed as remaining an exception to the general
statutes, such general statutes making no provision for the
particular case where more than one defendant are parties to
a suit. Pearce v. Bank, 33 Alabama, 693; McFarlandv. Bank,
4 Arkansas, 410; Thorp v. Adams, L. R. 5 C. P. 125; Fitzgerald

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

199 U. S.

v. Champenys, 30 L. J. N. S. Eq.. 782; State v. Rackley, 2 Iliana, 249; Stockett v. Bird, 18 Maryland, 484, 489; Crane v.
Reeder, 22 Michigan,. 322; Fosdick v. Ferrysburg, 14 Ohio St.
472; Brown v. County Commissioners, 21, Pa. St. 37; Rounds v.
Waymart Borough, 81 Pa. St. 395; Harrisburg v. Sheck, 194
Pa. St. 53; Morrison v. Fayette Co., 127 Pa. St. 110; Murdock's
Petition, 149 Pa. St. 341; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556;
Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83.
Rev. Stat., § 740, was not repealed by implication by the
act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. _470. Nor by the act of
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, 555, nor by the act of August
13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, 437. M'Micken v. Webb, 11 Pet. 25;
Phillips v. Moore, 100 U. S. 208; United States v. Mooney, 116
U. S. 104; Ames v. Hager, 30 Fed. Rep. 129; E. Tenn., Va.
& Ga. R. R. v. Atlanta & Fla. R. R., 49 Fed. Rep. 608;
Goddard et al. v. Mailler et al., 80 Fed. Rep. 422.
No statute has attempted to expressly repeal the applicable
provisions -of the statute and the proper mode of practice is
thereby provided. Henderson's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652.
Where several affirmative statutes relate to- the same
subject matter, but have different objects, none is repealed,
but all stand.. Gibson v. Ackerman, 70 Ill. App. 399; Casey v.
Harned, 5 Clark (Ia.), 1; Deposit Co. v. Frick, 152 Pa. St. 231;
Mills v. State, 23 Texas, 235; United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S.
546; People v. McAllister, 10 Utah, 357; Re Garnett,11 Utah, 289.
Repeals by implication are not favored. Connor v. So.
Express Co., 37 Georgia, 397; Bruce v. Schuyler, 4 Gilm. (Ill.)
221; People v. Barr, 44 Illinois, 198; Casey v. Harned, 5 Clark
(Ia.), 1; Goddard v. Boston, 37 Massachusetts (20 Pick.), 407,
410; McCartee v. Orphan Asylum So., 9 Cowen, 437; Dodge v.
Gridley, 10 Ohio St. 173; Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342;
McCord v. Smith, 1 Black, 459; Arthur v. Homer, 96 U. S. 137;
Red Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 596; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109
U. S. 556; Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682; Frost v. Wenie, 159
U. S. 46; United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136, 147; United
States v. New York, 160 U. S. 598, 609; United States v. Great-

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

house, 166 U. S. 601, 605; United States v. Lee Yen Tah, 185
U. S. 213.
Mr. David S. Lansden with whom Mr. John M. Lansden,
Mr. Angus Leek and Mr. M. Paul Noyes were on the brief,
for defendants in error:
The act of March 3, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts, 18 Stat. 470, is a general independent act intended to recast the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, and
repealed § 740, Rev. Stat., providing that if there were two or
more defendants, residing in different districts of a State, a
suit not of a local nature might be brought in a district where
one of the defe'ndants resided and a duplicate writ issued to
the marshal of any other district in which any defendant resided. See also further restriction by the act of March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433.
Defendants in error are inhabitants of the Southern District
of Illinois and were served with process in that district. The
plaintiffs in error are aliens. The defendants in error, therefore, could not be sued in the Northern District of Illinois, in
which district this suit was brought, although the other defendants were residents of said Northern District. McCormick
Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S. 41; Denton v. InternationalCompany,
36 Fed. Rep. 1; Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Greeley v. Lowe,
155 U. S. 58; Construction -Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; New
Jersey Steel & Iron Co. v. Chormann, 105 Fed. Rep. 532;
Jenkins v. York Cliffs Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 807; Freeman v.
American Surety Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 549; French v. Spencer,
21 How. 228; Gibson v. United States, 194 U. S. 182; M'Iver v.
Ragan, 2 Wheat. 25; Denn v. Reid, 10 Pet. 524; United States
v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95; Potter's Dwarris, 221; Hankins v.
The People, 106 Illinois, 628; Cooley, Const. Lim. 64; Sutherland, Stat. Con. § 328; Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414;
Harwood v. Wentworth, 162 U. S. 547; NationalBank v. Guthrie,
173 U. S. 528; Waite v. Santa Cruz, 184 U. S. 302; Arms v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Ayer, 192 Illinois, 601; Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 U. S.
1; Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion to dismiss the writ of error first requires our- attention. It is urged that the writ should be dismissed because the bill of exceptions fied below and the certificate made
as to the question of jurisdiction on this writ of error were
authenticated by a judge other ihan the trial judge, and
further, because the certificate was not made at the term in
which the judgment complained of was entered. We are relieved, however, from the necessity of considering these objections, for the reason that the judgment of dismissal and the
prior proceedings clearly exhibit the ground upon which the
judgment was based, and plainly make apparent on the record
the fact that the only matter tried and decided in the Circuit
Court were demurrers to pleas to the jurisdiction, and that the
petition upon which the writ of error was allowed asked only
for the review of the 'judgment, which decided that the court
had no jurisdiction of the action. This being the state of the
record, no bill of exceptions or formal certificate in respect to
the matter decided was required, and the question of jurisdiction alone was sufficiently certified to this court, as required
by the act of March 3, 1891. 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, sec. 5;
Interior Construction & Improvement Company v. Gibney, 160
U. S. 217, and cases cited; Chappell vi United States, 160 U. S.
499, 507.
We pass then to a consideration of the merits. The plaintiffs in error insist that the Circuit Court for the Northern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois had jurisdiction
over the defendants, who, being citizens of Illinois, were residents of the Southern District of that State, because such
jurisdiction was expressly conferred by section 740, Rev. Stat.,
and by the terms of a special act relating to the judicial dis,

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

493

Opinion of the Court.

tricts in Illinois, approved March 2, 1887. 24 Stat. 442. On
the contrary, in effect, the defendants in error maintain that
the court below rightly held that it had no jurisdiction over
the defendants who resided in the Southern District of Illinois,
because section 740 of the Revised Statutes had been repealed
by the Judiciary Acts of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, and
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, and because no such jurisdiction
was given by the special act of March 2, 1887, and if it was
conferred by that act, the act was repealed by the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1887.
In order, as far as may be, to narrow the question for decision
to the case before us, we shall come first to consider the contentions concerning jurisdiction, based on the special act of
March 2, 1887, which deals alone with the State of Illinois,
since, if we conclude that that act gave the jurisdiction and
,has not been repealed, we will be relieved of the necessity of
determining whether the general provision (Rev. Stat. 740),
applicable to all States having more than one judicial district,
is yet in force.
In approaching the consideration of the special act relating
to the Illinois districts we shall assume, for the purposes of
such consideration, that the provisions of section 740, Rev.
Stat., were repealed by any or all of the Judiciary Acts, of
March 3, 1875, and the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by
the act of August 13, 1888.
In coming to consider the special act two questions arise:
1. Did the terms of that act give jurisdiction to the Circuit
Courts of the United States in Illinois as to all the defendants
in a civil action where there were two or more such defendants
residing in different districts of the State? 2. If the act conferred such jurisdiction, was it repealed at the time of the bringing of the action?
First. The special act of March 2, 1887, was entitled, "An
act to amend section 536 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, relating to the division of the State of Illinois into

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

judicial districts." At the time of the passage of this special
act there were two judicial districts in the State of Illinois,
the Northern and the Southern. The first section of the act
took certain counties from the Southern District and added
them to the Northern District. The second section divided
the Northern District as enlarged into two divisions. The
third section fixed the place and times of holding courts in said
divisions of the Northern District. The fourth section, relating to jurisdiction, was as follows:
"SEc. 4. That all civil suits not of a local nature, and

criminal prosecutions, must be brought in the division of the
said Northern District of Illinois where the defendant or defendants resid, or the offense is committed; but if there are
two or more defendants in civil suits residing in the different
divisions or districts the action may be brought in either in
which either of bhe defendants may reside. When the defendant is a non-resident of the district, action may be brought in
either division of said district wherein the defendant may be
found."
The remaining sections contain provisions rendered necessary by the change in both districts and. the subdivision of the
Northern District.
The first part of the opening sentence of section 4 clearly
lays down the general rule controlling suits against residents
of the Northern District, and directs in what division of that
district suit may be brought. This general rule being thus laid
down, the sentence proceeds to carve out an exception in the
following language: ". . . but if there are two or more
defendants in civil suits residing in different divisions or districts, the action may be brought in either in which either of
the defendants may reside.". In other words, the exception
plainly confers jurisdiction, in the cases for which it provides,
upon the courts of either district, and as to such exception
gives the right to bring the suit in either district, and if brought
in the Northern District requires it to be brought in the division
of that district in which one of the defendants resided. The

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

text making this provision is free from ambiguity, and, if its
plain import be followed, is decisive. But the argument is
that the words "or district," contained in the sentence, were
manifestly a mistake, and should be read "of the district," so
as to cause the sentence to read as follows: "but if there are
two or more defendants in civil suits residing in the different
divisions of the district, the action may be brought in either in
which either of the defendants may reside." To adopt this
view, however, would compel us to strike ou the word "or"
and insert in its stead the words "of the," and to strike out
the word "districts" and insert in its stead the word "district."
To. do this would be not interpretation, but legislation. It
is insisted, however, that this would not be the case, because
to thus restrict the section in question is compelled by a consideration of the subject with which it dealt and the purpose
which Congress had in mind in enacting the statute; that is to
say, the argument is that, as by the act the purpose of Congress was only to divide the Northern District of Illinois into
two divisions and to deal exclusively with the district thus
subdivided, therefore the words used must be construed so as
to cause them to relate exclusively to such subject matter.
This argument, however, misconceives the avowed purpose of
the act as shown by its title and its context. The title, as we
have seen, expressly purported to deal with and amend the
section of the Revised Statutes creating two judicial districts
in Illinois, and the very first section of the act dealt with the
Southern as well as with the Northern District. And that the
mind of Congress was addressed to the existence of two districts in the State, and that the wisdom of legislating on that
basis was present to its mind, is shown, not only by the provisions in question, but by the subsequent sections of the act,
wherein frequent mention is made of both districts.
And the error of the assumption, that because the act of
Congress primarily provided for the division of the Northern
District, therefore that body could not fiave contemplated a
provision concerning the right of election to bring a suit in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

either of the districts of the State where two or more defendants resided in the different districts, is refuted by legislation
enacted at the same session of Congress in which the Illinois
act was passed-that is, by an act approved February 28,
1887,-two days before the approval of the Illinois act dividing the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri into divisions, in which act it was provided in the fourth section as
follows, 24 Stat. 424, 425:
"SEc. 4. That hereafter all suits to be brought in the courts
of the United States in Missouri, not of a local nature, shall be
brought in the division having jurisdiction over the county
where the defendants, or either of them, reside; but if there be
more than one defendant, and a part of them reside in different divisions or districts of said State, the plaintiff may sue
in either division of either district where one of such defendants resides, and send duplicate writs to the other division or
distriet directed to the marshal of said district, on which said
wrio shall be indorsed, by the plaintiff or his attorney, that
the same is a duplicate of the original writ sued out of the court
of the proper division and district.

"

Now, it will be observed that Congress in this provision uses
the very words found in the Illinois act, accompanied with
such directions as to service of process as leaves no possible
room for contention that the words "division or district" were
used by Congress as synonymous and without a comprehension
of the plain distinction which existed between them. And, as
we shall proceed hereafter to demonstrate, the prior and subsequent legislation of Congress relating to the division of States
into judicial districts, or of a judicial district into divisions, all
demonstrate that in enacting such legislation Congress usually
deemed it wise to provide for joining in a single action in either
district a number of defendants residing in the particular
State, but in different districts thereof.
Holding, as we do, that the special act of 1887, as to Illinois,
conferred jurisdiction upon a court of either district in a civil
cause wherein two or more defendants resided in different

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

districts in the State, we are brought to consider the second
question, which is, was the act in question repealed by the
act of March 3, 1887, as corrected :by the act of August 13,1888?
As previously said, we assume, for the purposes of the argument, that the effect of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1875,
was to repeal section 740, Rev. Stat., conferring in general
terms throughout the United States the character of jurisdiction referred to, and we also concede, for the sake of the argument, that if the act of 1875 had not caused a repeal of section 740, the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act of
August 13, 1888, did so. Does it follow from these concessions,
however, that the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1887, as corrected,
repealed the special act, which was approved only one day
before the approval of the Judiciary Act of 1887?
Undoubtedly the act of 1887, in the first section thereof,
declared the general rule to be that no civil suit should be
thereafter brought in a Circuit or District Court by any original "process of [or] proceeding" in any Other district than that
whereof the defendant was an inhabitant, and that where the
jurisdiction was founded only on the fact that the action was
between citizens of different States, suit should be brought
only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or
defendant. So, also, the act contained a general clause repealing all laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of the act.
It is elementary that repeals by implication are not favored,
and that a repeal will not be implied, unless there be an irreconcilable conflict between the two statutes. And especially
does this rule apply where the prior law is a special act relating
to a particular case or subject and the subsequent law is general in its operation. To hold, then, that the general terms of
the act of 1887 repealed the special and particular provisions
of the act of 1887, relating to the districts in Illinois, we must
conclude that there was such conflict between the two that it
cannot reasonably be inferred that Congress intended that the
two should coexist.
VOL. cxcix-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

The conclusion, in effect, therefore, would have to be that
it cannot be supposed that Congress intended, when it legislated generally concerning the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States, to leave in force a special act as to the districts
in Illinois, which would take those districts out of the general
rule otherwise governing elsewhere. But to adopt this proposition would compel us to ignore the entire course of legislation
by Congress concerning the courts of the United States from
the beginning, both prior to and after the adoption of the general act of 1887. By the original Judiciary Act (1 Stat. 73, 79)
suits were permitted to be brought, either in a Circuit or District Court, in the district whereof the defendant was an inhabitant or wherein he was found at the time of serving the
writ. Each State then practically constituted a single judicial
district. Whilst thi§ general provision was in force many
special acts were passed by Congress creating more than one
district in a State, and providing that where a suit was brought
against two or more defendants residing in different districts
in a State, the plaintiff might sue in either district. See act
of June 18, 1838, see. 4, as to Mississippi districts, 5 Stat. 248;
act of January 18, 1839, sec. 7, as to Tennessee, 5 Stat. 314;
act of February 6, 1839, sec. 5, as to Alabama, 5 Stat. 315;
act August 11, 1848, see. 5, as to Georgia, 9 Stat. 281; act
March 3, 1849, sec. 3, as to Iowa (State made into divisions),
9 Stat. 411; and act February 10, 1855, sec. 9, as to Ohio,
10 Stat. 606.
If the theory of irreconcilability between such statutes and
the existence of a general provision to the contrary necessarily
involved in the argument to establish that the special Illinois
statute was repealed by the act of 1887 be sound, it must follow that either these special acts, passed long after the Judiciary
Act of 1789, never took effect, or that the consequence of their
passage was to destroy the provision of the Judiciary Act,
prescribing the place where civil suits might be brought, which,
of course, is an impossible hypothesis.
Now, it was not until May 4, 1858 (11 Stat. 272), that a

PETRI v. CREELMAN LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

general law was passed, making a provision like unto that
contained in the special acts to which we have referred, of
general application throughout the United States; and it was
this general provision which was subsequently incorporated
into section 740, Rev. Stat. And, even after the passage of
the act of 1858, in at least one special act, Congress incorporated a like provision to that we have been considering. Act
February 24, 1863, sec. 9, as to Michigan, 12 Stat. 662.
And the refutation of the argument- of inherent incompatibility between a general rule regulating jurisdiction and
a special act departing from that rule as to a particular State
which results from a consideration of the legislation of Congress
from the beginning to the time of the adoption of the act of
1875, likewise results from a consideration of the legislation
since that act. Thus, under the contention, which we have
assumed to be sound, the effect of the passage of the act of
1875 was to repeal the provisions of section 740, Rev. Stat.
This being the case, it resulted that the act of 1875 announced
the general rule as to jurisdiction, which was in conflict with
the rule theretofore generally prevailing under the terms of
section 740, Rev. Stat. But that Congress did not deem that
a special provision as to a particular State or States was irreconcilable with the existence of the general rule, is conclusively
shown by the fact that after the adoption of the act of 1875
various special acts were passed dividing particular States into
two or more districts, or dividing a district or districts into
divisions, and expressly declaring that in civil suits, not of a
local nature, two or more citizens of the State might be joined
as defendants, although residing in different districts of the
State, and that suit might be brought in either district. See
act as to Louisiana, 1881, 21 Stat. 507, sec. 2; as to Mississippi,
1882, 22 Stat. 102, sec. 3; as to Missouri, Feb. 28, 1887, sec. 4,
24 Stat. 425. To which may be added the statute relating to
Illinois, which we are considering.
Indeed, the legisla~ion of Congress pince the passage of the
act of 1887, under the hypothesis of the repeal of section 740,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S,

Rev. Stat., by that act, also demonstrates that it was considered that the passage of a special statute as to a particular
State, vesting jurisdiction in the courts of either district within
the State, where two or more defendants resided in different.
districts therein, was not irreconcilable with the existence of a
general rule to the contrary in a statute having a general operation. This is shown by the fact that a special law of the character stated has been enacted as recently as 1894. Act as to
Mississippi, 28 Stat. 115, sec. 4. The subject matter dealt with
by that act-viz., the division of a judicial district of Mississippi
into minor subdivisions-is like unto the Illinois act which we
are considering, and the identical language used in the Illinois
act, "division or district," is also found in the Mississippi act,
accompanied, however, with a provision leaving no possible
room to contend that it was not the intention of Congress to
allow the joinder in one action of defendants residing in different districts within the State. Section 4 of the act reads as
follows:
"SEC. 4. That if there be more than one defendant in a
cause and the defendants reside in different divisions of the
said Southern District, or any of the defendants reside in the
Northern District, the plaintiff may sue in either division or
district where any defendant resides, and send duplicate writs
for the other defendant or defendants [to] the other division
or district where such defendant or defendants reside, and said
writs when executed and returned into the court from which
they issued shall constitute one suit and be proceeded in accordingly."
Concluding, as we do, that the special act of March 2, 1887,
relating to the judicial districts of Illinois, was in force at the
time of the bringing of this action and still remains in force,
and that by the terms of section 4 of the act and under the
pleadings in the action jurisdiction was conferred upon the
Circuit Court of the Northern Division of the Northern District
of Illinois over all the defendants named in the declaration, as
well those residing in the Southern District as those residing

FOPPIANO v. SPEED.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in the Northern District of Illinois, it follows that the court
below erred in overruling the demurrers to the pleas to the
jurisdiction and rendering judgment of dismissal, and such
judgment must, therefore, be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings.
Reversed.

FOPPIANO v. SPEED.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 67 and 68. Argued November 9, 1905.-Decided December 4, 1905.
Since the passage of the Wilson Act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, there
is a distinction between the right to sell intoxicating liquors on vessels
engaged in interstate commerce and other businesses conducted on such
vessels.
Under the provisions of that act a State may, in the exercise of its police
powers, exact a license fee as a condition of the right to sell intoxicating
liquor over the bar on board of a steamboat while within the boundaries
of the State, notwithstanding such boat is navigating the Mississippi
River and is engaged in interstate commerce.
Such a license fee is not a tax on the boat, crew, passengers or liquor sold,
nor a fee for navigating the river, the imposition of which would be an
interference with the commerce clause of the Constitution, nor does it in
any way violate the freedom of the navigation of the Mississippi River as
guaranteed by treaties and statutes.
The fact that the boat is personal property owned by a corporation of
another State does not make it a part of the territory of that State, and
exempt those thereon from the police regulations of another State in
regard to the sale of intoxicating liquor while within the boundaries of
the latter State.

plaintiff in error was compelled to pay for a license to
sell liquors while on a ferryboat at the city of Memphis, in the
State of Tennessee, the ferryboat plying between ports in the
States of Arkansas and Tennessee. The license was demanded
THE

