ESTES v. TIMMONS.
199 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

ESTES v. TIMMONS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

OKLAHOMA.
No. 74.

Submitted November 10, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905,

The decision of the proper officers of the Land Department on questions of
fact in a contest is conclusive on the, courts and, in the absence of fraud
in preventing a party from presenting his case, the decision is not subjected to review by the courts by a charge of perjury against the witnesses.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. D. Luckett for appellant:
In a -case like this the courts will look into the record of
proceedings in the Land Department, not for the purpose of
ascertaining whether that Department came to a correct conclusion of fact from conflicting evidence, but to determine
whether or not the judgment of the Department was right an(
just as between the parties and not the result of: 1. Error of
law committed by the Department officials; 2. Fraud comnitted by the prevailing party; 3. Or imposition upon the

Department officials by the prevailing party without which
the decision would have been the other way. Garlandv. W1ynn,
20 How. 5.
In many cases the court has examined the entire proceeding

in the Land, Department, including' the testimony taken in a
contest case, to determine whether a patent issudd and involved in the suit had been obtained rightfully or not. Barnard v. Ashley, 18 How. 43; Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 How. 7;
Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554; Carr v. File, 156 U. S. 494;
Johnson v. Townsley, 13 Wall. 72; De Canibra v. Rogers, 189
U. S. 119; United States v. Throckniorton, 98 U. S. 61; Baldwin
v. Stark, 107 U. S. 463, distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905,
Opinion of the Court.

199 J. 9,

Mr. J. H. Everest for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
13ill in equity to declare appellee trustee of appellant of the
south half of the southeast quarter of section 18, T. 10 N.,
R. 4 E., in the county of Pottawatomie, Oklahoma. Appellee
holds patent of the United States. The charge is that he obtained the patent by imposition and fraud practiced upon the
Land Department. The trial court sustained a demurrer to
the bill and entered a judgment dismissing it. The judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. 12
Oklahoma, 537.
The essential averments of the bill are that the land is a
part of Sac and Fox reservation in the Territory of Oklahoma,
which was thrown open to settlement and homestead entry
under the homestead laws of the United States, September 22,
1891, under the proclamation of the President of the United
States, issued September 18, 1891. 27 Stat. 989. The appellant
was qualified to make settlement and entry of said land, and
immediately after 12 o'clock noon of September 22, and before
any other qualified person, settled upon the land. Immediately
thereafter he commenced to erect a dwelling house and established his residence thereon, and cultivated and improved the
same in compliance with the homestead laws. On the twentyfifth of September he made a homestead entry thereon at the
land office at Oklahoma City. Appellee filed an affidavit contesting the entry, in which he falsely and fraudulently alleged
that he made settlement on the land immediately after 12 o'clock
noon of September 22, 1891, and prior to appellant. The contest came on for hearing on the fifth of July, 189, and after
hearing the register and receiver of the local land office held
that appellee was the prior settler, and appellant's entry was
canceled and appellee was allowed to enter the land May 21,
1894. On the twenty-sixth of September, 1894, appellant
filed an affidavit of contest against appellee and his entry,

ESTES v. TIMMONS.
199 IT. s.

Opinion of the Court.

alleging that appellee was not qualified to make entry for the
reason that he entered upon and occupied the land and other
parts of the reservation prior to noon of the twenty-second day
of September, 1891, and after $eptember 18, 1891. The contest was heard and the land officers found adversely to the
contention. This ruling was affirmed successively by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary
of the Interior, and patent issued to the appellee. The appellant alleges that, upon the hearing and trial before the register
and receiver, appellee "wilfully, intentionally and fraudulently, intending to deceive and mislead and misinform said
register and receiver, procured and introduced the testimony
of witnesses, AV. L. Hartman, Clarence Hartman, Sam Cole,
David L. Timmons, John Eaton and H. W. Darrow, who, at the
instigation and procurement of the said defendant (appellee)
testified before said register and receiver, in substance and
effect, that the said defendant did .not enter upon or occupy
any of.said lands so opened to settlement as aforesaid before
1.2 o'clock noon of September 22, A. D. 1891, and subsequent
to September 18, A. D. 1891, and to the effect that they were
with said defendant (luring said period and all of the time;
which said testimony was false, and known by said defendant
to be false when he procured and introduced the same." The
appellant also alleges that the Commissioner and Secretary
of the Interior were deceived and misled as to the facts in the
case by said false and fraudulent testimony.
An amendment to the bill, filed by permission of the trial
court, alleges that after testimony was taken in the contest,
and before any decision had been rendered by the register and
receiver, appellant filed a motion to reopen the hearing in said
contest, and that he be allowed to introduce further testimony.
The motion was overruled, and a motion was then made for
a new trial. Both motions were supported 'by affidavits, and
it is alleged that the register and receiver were influenced to
overrule the motions and were deceived by the false and
fraudulent testimony of appellee and his witnesses, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

said officers misconstrued and misapplied the law, in that the
all cases
rules aid praitice of the Land Department require ifi
where fraud or perjury has been committed in any hearing
the same shall be reopened or a new trial granted, when such
fact is shown to the office or depdrtment where pending, regardless of technicalities. A*like allegation is made in regard
to the ruling of the Commissioner of the General Land Office
and the Secretary of the Interior.
One of the affidavits attached to the motions was that of
John Eaton, a witness in the contest proceedings for appellee,
who testified to the settlment of the latter upon the land on
the tienty-second (lay of September, 1891, after the opening
of the reservation. Eaton states in his affidavit that he made
his depositioit by inducement of appellee and while he, Eaton,
was intoxicated, and coming to reflect upon the injury he had
(lone, he voluntarily reveals his perjury. He also.states that
he was not in Oklahoma on the twenty-second of September,
but was in Kentucky, arriving there about the fifteenth or
sixteenth of September. The affidavits of his brother and
nephew corroborate his statement. There is an affidavit of
one of the attorneys for appellant that he had been informed
before the hearing of the contest by appellant that one George
Stratton knew and had sworn in an affidavit, supporting appellant's affidavit of contest, that he was with appellee on the
land in controversy on the twenty-second day of September,
1891, and was told by appell e that hehad been on the reservation before it Was opened. Stratton was written to, the affidavit states, to appear at the hearing, but did not appear.
The affiant tried to see Stratton, but was prevented by inclement weather, but read his affidavit to him through the
telephone, between the town of Wewoka and his residence.
He replied that the affidavit was true. He, however, refused
to come to town on account of the weather, and the notary
refused to go to Stratton's for the same reason. It was stated
that Stratton could not be communicated with earlier. No
date is given of the communication with Stratton. The affi-

ESTES v. TIMMONS.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

davit -is dated March 4, 1899. The officers of the Land Department held the showing insufficient.
The contention of the appellant is that the Land Department was imposed upon and that this imposition constitutes
a ground of review of its decision by the courts. Garland v.
Wynn, 20 How. 6; Barnard v. Ashley, 18 How. 43; Lytle v.
Arkansas, 22 How. 193; Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554; Carr
v. File, 156 U. S. 494; De Cambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119,
are relied on to support the contention.
Appellant, distinguishing between fraud and imposition
practiced by a party upon the Land Department, makes the
latter a ground of jurisdiction in the courts. His case demands this, as no fraud was practiced upon him to prevent him
from fully presenting his case. He admits that a finding of
facts upon contradictory testimony is conclusive, not only in
the Land Department, but upon the courts. It is, however,
in effect, contended that if perjury can or shall be imputed to
the witnesses the character of the decision changes and becomes reviewable, and this not in an ex partei proceeding, but
in a contested proceeding, where everything was open and took
place upon notice. No case justifies this extreme view. It is
certainly not called for by the facts of the case at bar. The
land was thrown open to entry on the twenty-second day of
September, 1891. Appellant made an entry/ and appellee contested it. The contest came on for hearing July, 1892, and
decision rendered in 1894. Appellee then made entry and appellant instituted a contest. After some preliminary steps,
and by consent of the parties, the case was set for hearing
June 10, 1898. There was a continuance until September 12,
and another until the 29th, both at the instance of appellant.
The case was closed October 28. Motion to reopen the case
was made January 27, 1899. Five witnesses besides Eaton and
appellee testified to the latter's qualification to enter the land.
At the hearing, October 12, 1898, the divorced wife of Eaton
testified on behalf of appellant that she knew of the opening
of the Sac and Fox reservation for settlement, anal at that time

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

she and Eaton were on the way to Kentucky, having started
in July, 1891. The attorney for the appellant, in the affidavits
referred to, excused himself for not having moved for a contintance of the hearing .after this testimony was given, on the
ground that he could not give the names and residence of the
witnesses by whom Eaton's presence in Kentucky could be
proven, as required by rule 24, for the reason that the witness
had informed him she did not know any ,person who would be
likely to know the date other than the brother and relatives
of Eaton, and they would not testify without his consent. He
gave as another reason that he was fearful if he disclosed the
fact that he was seeking evidence in Kentucky Eaton would
flee the country, and, as appellee had sought to confuse and
conceal the identity of Eaton, the flight of -the latter would
make the evidence of no utility to appellant. In view of this
statement'of the proceedings how can it be said imposition
was practiced upon the Land Department? A great deal of
the testimony was taken in the presence of the register and
receiver. They as officers, given by law the duty and function
of judgment, passed upon the weight of the evidence, its contradictions and the imputations to which it and the witnesses
who gave it were subject. They exercised a like judgment
upon the new testimony which was submitted on the motions
to reopen and for new trial, upon the diligence in procuring
it and its value upon the issue between the parties. They considered it and decided against it. They exercised the judgment which the law invested them with power to make. Their
function would be useless if it did not extend that far, and
every decision they should make could be subjected to review
by the courts by a charge of perjury against a witness. Against
such power of review the decisions are clear. Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514; United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233; Lee
v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48; United States v. Throckmorton, 98
U. S. 61.
Decree affirmed.

