DONOVAN
199 U. S.

v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
Syllabus.

court did not do so. So as to the petition for writ of error
from this court, or the assignments of error here. They form
no part of the record on which it is to be ascertained whether
the state court decided a Federal question.
We are of opinion that no Federal question was raised at
the proper time and in the proper way, and, moreover, that
no Federal question was involved or decided.
Writ of error dismissed.

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 5.

Argued January 5, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Although its functions are public, a railroad company holds the legal title
to the property employed in the discharge of its duties, and while it
must under all circumstances do everything reasonably necessary for
the accommodation of passengers and shippers, it may use its property
to the best advantage of the public and itself, and for that end may make
reasonable rules and regulations for the use of its property consistent
with the purposes for which it is created and not inconsistent with legally
established regulations. When not unnecessary, unreasonable or arbitrary a railroad may make arrangements with, including the granting
of special privileges to, a single concern to supply passengers arriving at
its terminals with hacks and cabs, and it is not bound, at least in the
absence of valid state legislation requiring it to do so, to accord similar
privileges to other pfrsons, even though they be licensed hackmen. Such
an exclusive arrangement is not a monopoly in the odious sense of the
word, nor does it inv6lve an improper use by a railroad company of its
property.
Public sidewalks and streets are for use by all on equal terms for proper
purposes subject to valid regulations prescribed by the constituted authorities.
Where there is a continuing trespass by a number of parties, and a suit of
law could only determine a particular controversy at a particular time,
a court of equity may meet such an unusual emergency and by a comprehensive decree determine finally the controversy between the parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

avoid a multiplicity of suits and conserve the public interest; and so held
that the Pennsylvania Company could maintain a suit against hackmen
combined together in disregard of its regulations, enjoining them from
congregating upon the sidewalk adjacent to its terminal at Chicago so as
to interfere with the ingress and egress of passengers.
The rights of a railroad company as abutting owner of the sidewalks adjacent to the property on which its station stands and those of its passengers are not paramount to the rights of the general public to legitimately
use tl~e sidewalk, and licensed hackmen unless forbidden. by local regulations may, within reasonable limits, use a public sidewalk in properly
prosecuting their calling so long as such use does not obstruct others in
legitimately using it upon equal terms.

THIS suit involves some questions as to the relative rights
of the parties in the use of a railroad passenger station and
depot grounds, and in the use of the public sidewalk and street
adjacent to such station and grounds.
The facts out of which the controversy has arisen are clearly
established, and may thus be summarized:
By a lease executed in 1871 the Pennsylvania Company, a
corporation of Pennsylvania engaged in transporting passengers
and freight by railroad, acquired the possession and control of
the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway and all its
rolling stock and property-the latter railway extending from
Pittsburg to a passenger station at or near tile corner of Canal
and Adams streets in Chicago.
In 1880 the lessee company erected on the leased premises
a new passenger house, now known as the Union Passenger
Station, which ever since has been and is now occupied and
used by it and its tenants, the Chicago and Alton Railway
Company, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company,
and the Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway
Company. The companies just named occupy and use that
station under a perpetual lease by which the Pennsylvania
Company, as between it and its tenants, has charge of the
station with authority to control and. manage all trains therein
as well as all watchmen and employ6s in the business there
transacted.

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

This passenger station is the only terminus in Chicago of
each of those lines of railway, and through that station alone
can the several companies using it conduct an exchange of
passengers and baggage and the transportation and handling
of the United States mail and express parcels.
The extent of the business done at that station is indicated
by the statement that the Chicago and Alton Railway Company controls and operates in the transaction of what is commonly called interstate business over one thousand miles of
railway; the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, over seven thousand miles; the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company, over six thousand miles; the Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company,
over fourteen hundred miles; and the Pennsylvania Company,
over one thousand miles.
At this station the average number of passengers arriving
and departing is over thirty thousand each day; the average
number of parcels of baggage daily received and delivered, is
over two thousand two hundred; and the average number of
tons of United States mail daily received and delivered is over
two hundred and fifty. Passenger trains to the number of
two hundred and fifty arrive and depart each day. This
statement does not include the large number of express parcels
daily handled at the station.
All tickets of interstate passengers arriving and departing
from this station, known as through tickets, have attached to
each a check or coupon for conveyance through Chicago to the
station of the connecting line of railroad designated on such
tickets and not running into or out of the passenger depot of
the Pennsylvania Company. The latter company and the
other companies named have contracts for the use of a line
of omnibuses or conveyances for the performance of the services
called for by such coupons or che cks, and those omnibuses or
conveyances form the only regular connecting lines of transportation between the Pennsylvania Company's station and
the stations of other railways in Chicago.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U S.

Besides the Pennsylvania Coinpany's station there'are five
other railway stations in Chicago.
The main entrance to and exits from the Pennsylvania Com.pany's station for passengers, for employ~s and for the public
using the station, is on Canal street about one hundred feet
north of Adams street. Substantially all passengers, whether
arriving or departing, pass through that entrance which is at
the head of a flight of stairs leading down to and up from the
station platform upon which trains arrive and depart.
The present suit was instituted by the Pennsylvania Company against the defendant Donovan and others, citizens of
Illinois, for the purpose of protecting that company in the
enjoyment of certain alleged rights and privileges in respect
of its passenger station and depot grounds in Chicago. The
plaintiff alleged that those rights had been violated by the
defendants, and, unless enjoined from so doing, they would
continue to violate them to its great damage.
After referring to its efforts for many years to protect incoming and outgoing passengers from extortion and annoyance practiced by local hackmen, expressmen and hotel runners congregating about its station and noisily soliciting the
patronage of passengers, the plaintiff, besides stating the above
facts, alleged that it was comp'elled in 1894 to institute a
partial hack service of its own; and for the purpose of protecting the rights of passengers, it made on the thirty-first day
of December, 1894, an arrangement or contract with one
Eighme for the purpose of furnishing sufficient carriage and
cab service to passengers arriving at its station, and gave to
him for a carriage stand a small piece of ground, about thirtytwo feet wide and about ten feet long, in the northwest corner
of its passenger station at the corner of Madison street, near its
power house, requiring him to keep at all times clean vehicles,
carriages and cabs with uniformed,' honest and competent
drivers, who would be satisfactory to the company; to make
charges for the use of such carriages and cabs only in accordance with the ordinances of the city of Chicago; that Eighm.e

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

had been allowed to place an agent inside the company's
station to notify passengers that suitable cabs and carriages
could be obtained from such agent; that by means of such
arrangement the company made full provision for the wants
of incoming passengers desiring cabs or carriages for transportation from its station to any part of Chicago. The arrangement 6r agreement with Eighme was terminated by the
company' on the thirty-first day of January, A. D. 1902, and
a similar arrangement was made with the Parmelee Transfer
Company, which thereafter succeeded Eighme in the same
business, and now carried it on in the same manner.
The plaintiff charged a conspiracy and confederation among
the defendants-hack drivers and members of the Chicago
Hack, Coup6 and Cab Drivers' Union-to injure its business
and property rights, alleging that they daily gathered in numbers from eight to twenty men at a time, in rows and groups,
upon the sidewalk in front of its main entrance, entered the
company's station at its main entrance by twos and threes
at a time without plaintiff's consent and against its express
objections, and in loud and boisterous voices and manner
solicited incoming passengers and baggage for their vehicles;
that defendants, by their numbers and noisy calls, harassed
and annoyed passengers, sometimes forcibly laying hold of
them when leaving the station in order to secure their patronage, to the annoyance and confusion of passengers and to the
injury and damage of the plaintiffs; that the number of the
defendants, upon the arrival of each train at the entrance and
within'the station, soliciting business had become so great
that by their boisterous actions and obstruction of the sidewalk and the interior of plaintiff's station without its consent,
they had in large part deprived plaintiff of its lawful property
rights in the street frontage and of the free and full use of its
station and property, and thereby created and continued a
private nuisance damaging to the plaintiff's property, depriving it of the full, lawful, beneficial use Qf its station and street
frontage and of the main entrance thereto, and had prevented

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Ca.

199 U. I.

and now daily prevented it from securing to passengers a free
and uninterrupted passage from and to its station and -to
arriving and departing trains; and that by such acts of the
defendants great and substantial damages were inflicted upon.
plaintiff's property different in kind and degree from that
suffered by the general public, incapable of computation and
which could not be compensated at law.
It was further averred in the bill that the defendants asserted the right-and acted upon that claim and assertionto enter the station of the plaintiff at all times in such numbers
as suited their purposes, to remain there and occupy such
portions of the station as they saw fit in soliciting the custom
of incoming passengers regardless of the consent or the regulations of the plaintiff or the use to which its property is lawfully devoted, and to the prejudice of its duties and business
as a common carrier, and by their actions largely deprived the
plaintiff of the control of its property, to its irreparable loss
and damage.
Alleging that its rights could not be effectively protected
except by the decree of a court of equity, the plaintiff prayed
that the defendants be perpetually enjoined from "entering
the station" of the plaintiff "for the purpose of soliciting the
custom of incoming passengers for cabs, carriages, express
wagons or hotels, respectively; and that the occupation of the
sidewalk and street abutting the main entrance of your orator's
said station by said defendants for the purpose of soliciting
custom of passengers for their said cabs, carriages, express
wagons and hotels be decreed to be a nuisance to your orator
and damaging to its property; and that said defendants and
each of them and all persons acting in concert with them, whose
names are unknown to your orator, may be perpetually enjoined from congregating singly or in larger numbers upon the
said sidewalk at the main or any other entrance of your orator's
said station for the purpose of plying their respective vocations
as hackmen, cabmen, expressmen or hotel runners, and from
interfering with or soliciting the custom of any of the passengers

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

upon the sidewalk adjoining said station at any main or other
entrance to said station; and that your orator may have such
other and further relief in the premises as the nature of its
case may require and to your honors shall seem meet"
The defendants filed an answer putting in issue the material
allegations of the bill, and insisting upon their legal .right to
have their vehicles in the public street in front of the company's station, and to go upon the plaintiff's depot grounds
or into its station as well as to stand upon the sidewalk in
front of the main entrance to the station for the purpose of
soliciting the business of incoming or outgoing passengers.
A motion for an injunction against the defendants was heard
upon the pleadings and upon affidavits filed by the respective
parties. The Circuit Court granted a ,preliminary injunction
to the effect that the defendants and all persons claiming to
act under their authority, direction or control, or to whom
notice of the court's order or injunction should come, refrain
"from entering the passenger station of complainant at the
corner of Adams and Canal streets in the city of Chicago, to
solicit custom of the incoming passengers for cabs, carriages,
express wagons or hotels, and do absolutely desist and refrain
from congregating upon the sidewalk in front of, adjacent to
or about such entrances to said passenger station and from
soliciting the custom of passengers for cabs, carriages,. express
wagons or hotels until the further order of the court in the
premises."
The defendants appealed from that order and it was affirmed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals, except the last clause thereof,
which was modified by restraining the defendants "from congregating upon the sidewalks in front of, adjacent to, or about
the entrance of the appellee company's, passenger station and
from there soliciting the custom of passengers, so as to interfere with the ingress and egress of passengers and employ6s."
Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 215. Subsequently, a final decree was passed in the Circuit Court in conformity with the above order of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Petitioners.

199 U. S.

That decree, upon appeal by the defendants, was affirmed in
the latter court and the case is now before this court upon writ
of certiorari sued out by the defendants.
Mr. Richard J. Cooney, with whom Mr. James R. Ward was
on the brief, for petitioners:
The petitioners are licensed hackmen and expressmen of the
cityf of Chicago, and are common carriers of passengers and
baggage and of express. They are carrying on their vocation
under the ordinances of Chicago, and are governed by the
municipal law of Chicago. Art. V, ch. 24, Hurd's Stat. Ill.,
p. 62, § 1, cls. 9, 42.
No corporation or individual can acquire an exclusive right
to their use for mefely private purposes, and the ordinance
must be reasonable, uot oppressive, or such as will create a
monopoly or grant special privileges or are in their nature
class legislation, and must not be against public policy; if so,
they are void. The ordinances must operate impartially, and
they cannot discriminate between the same class, and they
must be uniform and apply to all alike. Trotter v. Chicago,
33 Ill. App. 206; Chicago v. Trotter, 136 Illinois, 430; Chicago
Dock Company v. Garrity,115 Illinois, 155; Tugman v. Chicago,
78 Illinois, 405; Chicago v. Rumpff, 45 Illinois, 90; Kinmundy
v. Mahan, et al., 72 Illinois, 462; East St. Louis v. Wehrung,
50 Illinois, 28; Danville v. Noone, 103 Ill. App. 290. See ordinances Rev. Code Chicago, § 498; Lindsay v. Anniston, 27
L. R. A. 436.
This being the case the use of the street with the consent
and acquiescence of the municipal authorities cannot be enjoined at the suit of an abutting property owner. Doane v.
Elevated R. R. Co., 165 Illinois, 510; Murphy v. Chicago, 29
Illinois, 279; Stetson v. Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 75 Illinois,
74; Petterson v. Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 75 Illinois, 588; Burlington & Q. R. R. Co. v. McGinniss, 79 Illinois, 269; Peoria
& R. I. Co. v. Shertz, 84 Illinois, 135; Penn. L. Ins. Co. v.
Heiss, 141 Illinois, 35; Corcoran v. Chicago and Madison R. R,

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

287

Argument for Petitioners.

Co., 149 Illinois, 291; White v. Elevated R. R. Co., 154 Illinois,
620; P. C. C. & St. L. Co. v Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Truesdalo
v. Grape Sugar Co., 101 Illinois, 561; Dunning v. Aurora, 40
Illinois, 480; Bliss v. Kennedy, 43 Illinois, 67; White v. Elevated
Railroad Co., 154 Illinois, 626; County of Cook v. G. W. R. R.
Co., 119 Illinois, 218; Tibbets v.: W. & St. Ry. Co., 54 Ill. A1pp.
108; Chicago v. Union Building Assn., 102 Illinois, 380; Clark
v. Donaldson, 104 -Illinois, 639; Union Coal Co. v. La Salle,
136 Illinois, 119; Hessing v. Scott, 107 Illinois, 600; Miller v.
Webster, 62 N. W. Rep. 648. The above citations apply to
corporations as well as private individuals. Gen. Electric R. R.
Co. v. Chicago St. R. R. Co., 66 Ill. App. 362; Pennsylvania
Co. v. Chicago, 181 Illinois, 289; § 12, Art. II, Const. Illinois,
1870; Hurd's Stat., 1901, 72, 1385, 1378, 1381.
The, ordinances of the city of Chicago passed in pursuance
of the authority delegated to it by -the legislative department
of the State, have the effect of a statute passed by the general
assembly. Water Works v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 481.
The respondent in coming into the State of Illinois seeking to
do business here, owes obedience to the constitution and the
laws of the State, and the ordinances of the city of Chicago,
enacted in pursuance thereof, and is answerable thereto for
acts of nonfeasance or of misfeasance committed in said city.
St. Louis v. W. U. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 102; Chi. & Mil. "Ry.
Co. v. Sloan, 169 U. S. 137.
To permit the respondent to exercise the power and prlivilege and enjoy an immunity denied to other common carriets,
would be beyond the power of the general assembly and in
violation of § 22, Art. IV, Illinois Constitution. Noel v. The
People, 127 Illinois, 594; Horwich v. Walker, 205 Illinois, 495.
The title to the sidewalks.and the fee of the streets and
control thereof, at the entrance to and abutting the Union.
Passenger Station of the Pennsylvania Company, are vested
exclusively in the city of Chicago, for public use. Penn. Co.
v. Chicago, 181 Illinois, 296; Barnes v. Dist. of Col., 91 U. S.
547.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Petitioners.

199 U. S.

The respondent devotes its property to a use in which the
public has an interest, and subjects its property to be controlled
by such regulations as may be "prescribed by law," by the
legislative authorities of the State and the city. Cutting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 84; Brass v. Stoesser,
153 U. S. 400; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 531; Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S. 112; I. C. R. R. Co. -v. Willenborg, 117 Illinois,
209.
The Pennsylvania Company could not lawfully under the
constitution and laws of the State of Illinois, exclude from its
station in Chicago, duly licensed cabmen, and so discriminate
against them as to derive a profit from the maintenance of a
monopoly given to the Parmelee Company. Neither is a court
of equity open to the litigant whose acts are violations of law,
and opposed to public policy and the organic and statute law
of the State, and who seeks its sanction and aid to enforce a
contract ultra vires, and maintain a monopoly. Hack Company
v. Sootsam, 84 Michigan, 194; Union R. Co. v. Langlois, 9
Montana, 419; McConnell v. Hays, 92 Kentucky, 465; Union
Co. v. Dohn, 153 Indiana, 10; Cravens v. Rogers, 101 Missouri,
246; Lindsay v. Anniston, 104 Alabama, 267.
The relation of carrier and passenger is not involved in this
case, nor is it exercised upon this record, but the exercise of
police power and the authority to prevent and regulate monopolies and regulate sidewalks and traffic -on the same are
involved, attributes of State's sovereignty which belong exclusively to the State and its political subdivisions and agents.
United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 11; Barnes v. Dist. of Col.,
91 U. S. 547; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 63;.New York
v. Miln, 11 Pet. 139.
If respondent is injured, for which it has a right to complain, it has an adequate remedy at law, and where respondent
his an adequate remedy at law relief in equity will not be
granted. Richards v. Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co., 124 Illinois, 516;
Railroad Co. v. Drake, 148 Illinois, 226; Railroad Co. v. Scott,
132 Illinois, 429, Railroad Co. v. Robbins, 159 Illinois, 598;

DONOVAN ..v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

Gault v. RailroadCo., 157 Illinois, 125; Rigney v. City of Chicago,
102 Illinois, 64; Railroad Co. v. Ayer 106 Illinois, 511; Railroad Co. v. Reich, 101 Illinois, 157; Railroad Co. v. Stein, 65
Illinois, 75; Ottawa G. L. Co. v. Graham, 28 Illinois, 73; Railroad Co. v. Grabill, 50 Illinois, 242.
Where the relief prayed for, if granted, would be of great
injury to.the petitioners and not of a corresponding benefit .to
the respondent, an injunction will be denied. Pratt v. N. Y.
C. R. R. Co., 35 N. Y. Supp. 577; Gray v. Railroad Co., 126
N. Y. 509; High on Injunction, 596; H. H. Co. v. Padell, 5
Del. Ch. 435; Fernes,v. Railroad Co., 121 N. Y. 505; Railroad
Co. v. Adams, 28 Florida, 656; Ammerman v. Dean, 132 N. Y.
355; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Railroad Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 981;
Nason v. Sanborn, 45 N. H. 171.
The outside facilities for hackmen at a depot must be equal;
there can be no privileges shown there. Godbout v. St. Paul
Union Depot Co., 47 L. R. A. 532.
A railroad company or depot cannot make arbitrary rules
discriminating as to who may occupy stands as provided by
such depot, and as to who shall solicit passengers therefrom.
Ray oil Passenger Carriers, §§ 113-115; Fetter on Carriers of
Passengers, vol. 1, § 245, p. 638; 26 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
2d ed., 505; Montana Union Ry. Co. v. Langlios, 8 L. R. A. 753,
and note citing authorities; Markham v. Brown, 8 N. H. 523;
Craven v. Rogers, 42 Am. & Eng. Ry. Cas. 656; Mari(tt v.
Railroad Co., I. C. B. (N. S.) 499; In re Palmer and Railroad
Co., L. R., 6 C. P. 194; Camblos v. Railway Co., 9 Philadelphia,
411; Express Company v. Railroad Co., 57 Maine, 188; Summitt
v. State, 8 Lea, 413; Mississippi v. Reed, 76 Mississippi, 211;
Indianapolis U. Ry. Co. v. Dohn, 153 Indiana, 10; Lucas v.
Herbert, 37 L. R. A. 376; Cole v. Rowen, 13 L. R. A. 848; Indian River S. B. Co. v. East Coast.Transpt. Co., 28 Florida, 387.
Equity should not aid the respondent in its unlawful design
of giving the exclusive right at its depot to one common carrier
to the exclusion of others and monopolize the business of carriage and appropriate a portion of the public thoroughfare and
VOL.

6

xcxi-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

199 U. S.

quasi-public property to its own private use and the use of the
Parmelee Transfer Company to the exclusion of other common carriers
Mr. Edgar A. Bancroft, with whom Mr. Frank J. ,Loesch
and Mr. Charles F. Loesch were on the brief, for respondent:
Cabmen and expressmen have no right to enter a railroad
station for the purpose of soliciting patronage there without
the consent of the railroad company.
The stations, like the railroads, are impressed witr a public
use and are open to all having contractual relations with the
company or its passengers; but this does not embrace the
right to carry on, any private business in any station or train
without the consent of the company. It may grant an exelusive license to one person to solicit custom or incoming
passengers in its station, and exclude all others from the like
privilege. Jencks v. Coleman, 2 Sumn. 221; Commonwealth
v. Powers, 7 Met. 596; Barker v..Midland Ry. Co., 18 C. B.
46; S. C., 86 E. C. L. R.A5; Marriott v. London & S. W. R. Co.,
1 C. B. (N. S.) 499; S C., 87 E. C. L. R. 498; Beadell v. Eastern
Counties Ry.,Co., 2 C.'B. (N. S.) 509; S. C., 89 E. C. L. R. 509;
Painter v. London &c. Ry. Co., 2 C. B. (N. S.) 702; S. C., 89
E. C. L. R. 701; Barney v. D. R. Martin, 11 Blatch. 534;
Barney v. Oyster Bay Steamboat Co., 67 N. Y. 301; Express
Cases, 117 U. S. 1, Old Colony R. Co. v. Tripp, 147 Massachusetts, 35; Commonwealth v. Carey, 147 Massachusetts, 40;
Fluker v. Railrod Co., 81 Georgia, 461; Griswold v. Webb, 16
R. I. 649; Chicago, St. L. & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. Pullman Co.,
139 U. S. 79; Smith v. N. Y., L. E. & W., 149 Pa. St. 249;
AT. Y. Cent. R. Co. v. Fly'nn, 74 Hun, 124; N. Y. Cent. R. Co.
v. Sheeley, 27 N. Y. Supp. 185; Brown v. N. Y. Cent. Ry. Co.,
75 Hun, 355;S C., 46 N. E. 'Rep. 1145; Summitt v. State, 76
Tennessee, 413; Lucas v. Herbert, 148 Indiana, 64; N. Y. R. R.
Co: v. Scoville, 71 Connecticut, 136; Snyder v. Union Depot
Co., 19 Ohio Cir. Ct. Rep. 368; Kates v. Cab Co., 107 Georgia,
636; Godbout v. St. Paul Union Depot, 79 Minnesota, 188; N. Y.

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Cent. R. Co. v. Warren, 64 N. Y. Supp. 781; Boston & Albany
R. Co. v. Brown, 177 Massachusetts, 65; Boston & Me. R. Co.
v. Sullivan, 177 Massachusetts, 230; N. Y. &c. R. Co. v. Bork,
23 R. I. 218; St. Louis Drayage Co. v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 39; Pennsylvania Co. v. Donovan, 120 Fed.
Rep. 215; Hedding v. Gallagher, 72 N. H. 377.
Respondent has the legal right to free and unobstructed
entrance to its passenger station from Canal street; such right
is a property right; and the obstruction of such entrance by
the .petitioners gathering there in large numbers to ply their
vocation, is a private nuisance.
The allegations of respondent's bill are fully sustained by
the proof. Benjamin v. Storr, L. R. 9 Com. P1. 400; Lyon v.
Fishmongers Co., 1 App. Cases (H. L.), 662; Fritz v. Hobson,
L. R. 14 Ch. Div. 542; Jaques v. Natl. Exhibit Co., 15 Abb.
'N.C. 250; Hallock v. Scheyer, 33 Hun, 111; Flynn v. Taylor,
53 Hun, 167; Callanan v. Gilman, 107 N. Y. 360; Cohen v.
Mayor, 113 N. Y. 532; Flynn v. Taylor, 127 N. Y. 596; Carter
v. Chicago, 57 Illinois, 283; Field v. Barling, 149 Illinois, 557;
Newell v. Sass, 142 Illinois, 104; Hart v. Buckner, 54 ]Ped. Rep.
925; McDonald v. Newark, 42 N. J. Eq. 136; 2 Dillon on Mun.
Corp., 4th ed., §587; and n. § 656a; 1 Lewis on Em. Domain,
2d ed., 170, 196; 1 Am. & Eng. Corp. Rep., 47; 1 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 225, 238; Elliott on Roads, 2d ed., 761;
Branahan v. Hotel Co., 39 Ohio St. 333; Lahr v. Met. El. R.
Co., 104 N. Y. 268; Hedding v. Gallagher, 72 N. H. 377.
Injunction is the only adequate remedy in the case at bar.
1 Spelling on Injunctions, 2d ed., § 338; 2 Lewis on Eminent
Domain, 2d ed., § 638; 1 High on Injunction, §§ 816, 820;
Hilliard on Injunctions, 2d ed., §328; 2 Dill. on Mun. Corp.,
4th ed.,, § 661; Elliott on Roads, 2d ed., §709; cases supra and
Pennsylvania Co. v. Chicago, 181 Illinois, 289; Carterv. Chicago,
57 Illinois, 283; Edwards v. Haeger, 180 Illinois, 99, 108;
Lowery v. Pekin, 186 Illinois, 387; Chicago Gen. Elec. Ry. Co.
v. C., B. .& Q., 181 Illinois, 605, 611; London & N. W. R. Co.
v. Lancashire & Yorkshire Co., L. R. 4 Eq. Cases, 174, 178;

OCTOBER TERM, -1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

N. Y. Cent. R. Co. v., Warren, 64 N. Y. Supp. 781; Goodson v.
Richardson, 9 Ch.App. 221 ; Seattle Gas & Electric Co. v. Citizens
Light& Power Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 588.

The cases cited by appellant can be distinguished and are
inapplicable to the case at bar.
MR. JusTicE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

As this case is before us on writ of certiorari, we can dispose
of all questions arising on the record.
Upon the pleadings two principal inquiries arise: First,
whether the Pennsylvania Company having made an arrangement with the Parmelee Transfer Company to furnish at its
passenger station, from time to time, all vehicles necessary for
the accommodation of passengers arriving there on its trains
or on the trains of other railroad companies may legally exclude from its depot grounds or passenger station all hackmen
or expressmen coming to either for the purpose only of soliciting
for themselves the custom or patronage of passengers. Second, whether, in virtue of its ownership of the passenger station
and depot grounds in question, the railroad company is entitled, in prosecuting its business, to any greater privileges in
respect of the use of the sidewalk and street in front of the
main entrance to such station, than belonged to the defendants in the prosecution of their business.
. Much has been said in argument as to the functions and
duties of railroad companies. Under the decisions of this
court there can be no doubt as to the nature of those functions
or duties. In New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, .382, this court held that a corporation
engaged, under legislative authority, in the transportation
of passengers and freight over navigable waters, was "in the
exercise of a sort of public office, and has public duties to
perform." In Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 694, 695,
it was adjudged that a railroad, whether constructed by a
private corporation or by individuals under the authority of a

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

legislative grant, or by the State itself, was a public highway,
and that the function performed by the corporation was that
of the State, and the uses to which its property was devoted
were of a public nature. In Queensbury v. Culver, 19 Wall.
83, 91, it was said that the construction or maintenance of a
public highway was "for the promotion of a public use." So
in Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666, 676, which
involved the validity of taxation, under legislative authority,
to aid in the constructi6n of a railroad by a corporation:
"Though the corporation was private, its work was public, as
much so as if it were to be constructed by the State." Again,
in Cherokee Nation v. Kansas Railway Co., 135 U. S. 641, 657:
"The question is no longer an open one, as to whether a railroad is a public highway, established primarily for the convenience of the people, and to subserve public ends, and, therefore subject to governmental control and regulation. It is
because it is a public highway, and subject to such control,
that the corporation by which it is constructed, and by which
it'is to be maintained, may be permitted, under legislative
sanction, to appropriate private property for the purposes of a
right of way, upon making just compensation to the owner in
the mode prescribed by law." To the same effect are United
States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S.. 290, 332; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 544; Lake Shore &c. Ry. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285, 301. Necessarily, the same principles apply in
reference to the use of the company's station house and depot
grounds; for they are held in the same right as are its road, its
locomotives and other property or appliances employed in the
transportation of passengers and freight, and must be devoted
primarily to public use to the extent necessary for the public
objects intended to be accomplished by the construction and
maintenance of the railroad as a highway.
It by no means follows, however, that the company may not
establish such reasonable rules, in respect of the use of its
property, as the public convenience and its interests may
suggest, provided only that such rules are consistent with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

ends for which the corporation was created and not inconsistent with public regulations legally established for the conduct of its business. Although its functions are public in
their nature, the company holds the legal title to the property
which it has undertaken to employ in the discharge of those
functions. And as incident to ownership it may use the
property for the purposes of making profit for itself; such use,
however, being always subject to the condition that the property must be devoted primarily to public objects, without
discrimination among passengers and shippers, and not be so
managed as to defeat those objects. It is required, under all
circumstances, to do what may be reasonably necessary and
suitable for the accommodation of passengers and shippers.
But it is under no obligation to refrain from using its property
to the best advantage of the public and of itself. It is not
bound to so use its property that others, having no business
with it, may make profit to themselves. Its property is'to be
deemed, in every legal sense, private property as between it
and those of the general public who have no occasion to use it
for purposes of transportation. In Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. et al., 195 U. S. 540, the court considered the nature of the interest which a 'railroad company
had in its right of way, It was there said: "A railroad's right
of way has, therefore, the substantiality of the fee, and it is
private property even to the public in all else but an interest
and benefit in its uses. It cannot be invaded without guilt
of trespass. It cannot be appropriated in whole or part except
upon the payment of compensation. In other words, it is
entitled to the protection of the Constitution, and in the
precise manner in which protection is given." In that case the
court referred, with approval, to the observation of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia & Reading Railroad Co. v. Hummell, 44 Pa. St. 375, to the effect "that a railway company is a, purchaser, in consideration of public accommodation and convenience, of the exclusive possession of
the ground paid for to the proprietors of it." So, in Pittsburg,

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fort Wayne & Chicago Ry. Co. v. Bingham, Admx., 29 Ohio
St. 364, 370, the Supreme Court of Ohio said that "for all
purposes not connected with the operation of its road, the
right of the company to the exclusive use and enjoyment of
the corporat6 property is as perfect and absolute as is that
of an owner of real property not burdened with public or private
easements or servitudes."
Applying these principles to the case before us, it would seemto be clear that the Pennsylvania Company had the rightif it was not its legal duty-to erect and maintain a.passenger
station and depot buildings in Chicago for the accommodation
of passengers and shippers as well as for its own benefit; and
that it was its duty to manage that station so as to subserve,
primarily, the convenience, comfort and safety of passengers
and the wants of shippers. It was therefore its duty to see
to it that passengers were not annoyed, disturbed or obstructed in the use either of its station house or of the grounds
over which such passengers, whether arriving or departing,
would pass. It was to that end-primarily as we may assume
from the record-that the Pennsylvania Company made an
arrangement with a single company to supply all vehicles
necessary for passengers. We cannot say that that arrangement was either unnecessary, unreasonable or arbitrary; on
the contrary, it is easy to see how, in a great city and in a
constantly crowded railway staion, such an arrangement
might promote the comfort and convenience of passengers
arriving and departing, as well as the efficient conduct of the
company's business. The record does not show that the arrangement referred to was inadequate for the accommodation of passengers. But if inadequate, or if the Transfer Company was allowed to charge exorbitant prices, it was for
passengers to complain of neglect of duty by the railroad company and for the constituted authorities to take steps to
compel the company to perform its public functions with due
regard to the rights of passengers. The question of any failure
of the company to properly care for the convenience of passen-

OCTOBER TERM," !905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

gers was not one that, in any legal aspect, concerned the defendants as licensed hackmQn and cabmen. It was not for
them to vindicate the rights of passengers. They only sought
to use the property of the railroad company to make profit
in the prosecution of their particular business. A hackman,
in nowise connected with the railroad company, cannot, of
right and against the objections of the company, go upon its
grounds or into its station or cars for the purpose simply of
soliciting the custom of passengers; but, of course, a passenger
upon arriving at the station, in whatever vehicle, is entitled
to have such facilities for his entering the company's depot
as may be necessary.'
Here the defendants press the suggestion that they are
entitled to the same rights as were accorded by special arrangem@nt to the Parmelee Transfer Company. They insist,
in effect, that as carriers of passengers they are entitled to
transact their business at any place which, under the authority
of law, is devoted primarily to public uses-certainly at any
place open to another carrier engaged in the same kind of
business. But this conttntion, when applied to the present
case, cannot be sustained. The railroad company was not
bound to accord this particular privilege to the defendants
simply because it had accorded a like privilege to the Parmelee
Tkansfer Company; for it had no contractual relations with the
defendants, and owed them as hackmen no duty to aid them
in their special calling. The defendants did not have or
profess to have any business of their own with the company.
In meeting their obligations to the public, whatever the nature
of those obligations, the defendants could use any property
owned by them, but they could not, of right, use the property
of others against their consent. In maintaining a highway,
under the authority of the State, the first and paramount
obligation of the railroad company was, as we have already
said, to consult the comforc and conveiience of the public
who used that highway. To that end it could use all suitable
means that were not forbidden by law. In its discretion it

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

could accept the aid or stipulate for the services of others.
But, after providing fully for the wants of passengers and
shippers, it did not undertake, expressly or by implication, to
so use its property as to benefit those who had no business
or connection with it. It is true that by its arrangement with
the railroad company the Parmelee Company was given an
opportunity to control, to a great extent, the business of carrying passengers from 'the Union Passenger Station to other
railway stations and to hotels or private houses in Chicago.
But in a real, substantial, legal sense, that arrangement cannot be regarded as a monopoly in the odious sense of that word,
nor' does it involve an improper use by the railroad company
of its property. That arrangement is to be deemed, not unreasonably, a neans devised for the convenience of passengers
and of the railroad company, and as involving such use by the
company, of its property as is consistent with the proper performance of its public duties and its ownership of the property'
in question. If the company by such use of its property also
derived pecuniary profit for itself, that was a matter of no
concern to the defendants and gave them no ground of complaint.
This question is not controlled by any statute of Illinois.
Reference has been made to the Illinois act as amended in
1883, by which it is provided that every railroad in that State
shall "at all junctions with other railroads, and at all depots
where said railroad companies stop their trains regularly to
receive and discharge passengers in cities and villages, for at
least one-half hour before the arrival of, and one-half hour
after the arrival of any passenger train, cause their respective
depots to be open for the reception of passengers; said depots
to be kept well lighted and warmed for the space of time
aforesaid;" also, to the act of 1877, as amended in 1895, by
which it is provided, "That all railroads in this State carrying
passengers or freight shall, and they are hereby required to
build and maintain depots for the comfort of passengers and
for the protection of shippers of freight, where such railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

companies are in the practice of receiving and delivering passengers and freight, at all towns and villages, having a population of two hundred or more on the line of their roads, and
roads leased and operated by them." Hurd's Ill. Stat., 1901,
pp. 1385, 1378. Clearly these statutes have nothing to do with
the matter before us. They relate only to the comfort and
convenience of passengers and shippers of freight, and do not
confer or assume to confer any rights on hackmen or cabmen
who seek to enter the depot grounds and station of- the railroad company merely to solicit business for themselves. It
does not appear that the State has undertaken by any statute
to compel the railroad company to share the use of its depot
grounds and station with hackmen and cabmen seeking to
use them only to solicit custom for themselves. Whether such
a statute would be valid, we need not now consider or determine.
In the Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1, 24, which involved a
general inquiry as to the respective rights of railroad and
express companies in respect of the use of railroads for the
transportation of express parcels, this court said: "So long as
the public are served to their reasonable satisfaction, it is a
matter of no importance who serves them. The railroad company performs its whole duty to the public at large and to
each individual when it affords the public all reasonable express accommodations. If this is done, the railroad company owes no duty to the public as to the particular agencies
it shall select for that purpose. The public require the carriage, but the company may chose its own appropriate means
of carriage, always provided they are such as to insure reasonable promptness and security."
In Chicago &c. PlailroadCo. v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S.
79, 89, one of the questions was as to the validity of a contract
between a railroad company and the Pullman Company,
whereby the latter was given the exclusive right for fifteen
years to furnish drawing room and sleeping cars to be used
by the former, and whereby, also, the railroad company stipu-

DONOVAN v.' PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lated that during that term it would not contract to give a
like privilege to other sleeping car companies. That contract
was assailed as one in restraint of trade and as being against
public policy. This court said: "The authorities cited in
support of this contention have no application to such a contract as the one before us. The defendant was under a duty
arising from the public nature of its employment to furfiish
for the use of passengers on its lines such accommodations as
were reasonably required by the existing conditions of passenger traffic. Its duty, as a carrier of passengers, was to
make suitable provisions for their comfort and safety. Instead of furnishing its own drawing room and sleeping cars,
as it might have done, it employed the plaintiff, whose special
business was to provide cars of that character, to supply as
many as were necessary to meet the requirements of travel.
It thus used the instrumentality of another corporation in
order that it might properly discharge its duty to the public.
So long as the defendant's lines were supplied with the requisite
number of drawing room and sis3eping cars, it was a matter of
indifference to the public who owned them. Express Cases,
117 U. S. 1."
The views we have expressed find more or less support in
numerous adjudged cases, some of which are cited in -he
margin.' There are cases to the contrary, but in our opinion
the better view, the one sustained by the clear weight of
1 Jencks v. Coleman, 2 Sumn. 221; Barney v..The Martin, 11 Blatch. 233;
Commonwealth v. Power, 7 Met. 596; Barney v. Oyster Bay Steamboat Co.,
67 N. Y.,301; Old Colony R. R. Co. v. Tripp, 147 Massachusetts, 35; Commonwealth v. Carey, 147 Massachusetts, 40; State v. Depot Co., 71 Ohio St.
379; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Old Dominion Baggage Co., 99 Virginia,
111; Fluker v. Georgia Railroad Co., 81 Georgia, 461; Griswold v. Webb, 16
R. I. 649; Sumniitt v. State, 76 Tennessee, 418; New York &c. R. R. Co. v.
Scovil, 71 Connecticut, 136; Kates v. Cab Co., 107 Georgia, 636; Godbout v.
St. Paul Union Depot, 79 Minnesota, 188; Boston & Albany R. R. Co. v.
Brown, 177 Massachusetts, 65; Boston & Maine R. R: Co. v. Sullivan, 177
Massachusetts, 230; New York &c. R. R. Co. v. Bork, 23 R. I. 218; St. Louis
Drayage Co-v. Louisville &c. R. R. Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 39; Hedding v. Gallagher,
72 N. H. 377.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

authority and by sound reason and public policy, is that which
we have expressed.
The defendants cite, as supporting their contention, Pennsylvania Company v.. Chicago, 181 Illinois, 289. But that case
did not involve any question as to the right of licensed cabmen
to enter the station house of a railroad company, against its
objection, solely for the purpose of soliciting the custom of
passengers. What appears in the opinion of the majority
and in the particular cases cited by the learned state court,
on that point was, we feel constrained .to say, outside of the
issues presented, and cannot be deemed authoritative upon
the question now being considered. The sole issue in that
case was as to the validity of certain ordinances of the city
of Chicago relating to the use by hackmen of the public street
and sidewalk in front of the company's station-a question
wholly- different from the one relating to the special arrangement between the railroad company and the Parmelee Transfer Company. If the question had been before the state court,
and it had adjudged that a railroad corporation could not
grant to one person or company the exclusive right within,its
station to solicit the custom of passengers (the subject notbeing covered by any valid statute), then it would have been
necessary to consider whether the subject was not one of general law, in respect of which the courts of -the United. States
were entitled to exercise their independent judgment in light'
of the settled principles that must always control the determination of the legal rights of Parties. No. such question is
now presented.
The next question to be examined is that which involves
the respective rights of the parties in the. use of the public
street and sidewalk in front of the company's passenger station.-,
We have seen that the original temporary restraining order
of the Circuit Court was, in general terms, to the effet -that
the defendants desist from congregating upon the siddwalkin front of, adjacent to or about the entrance to the company's
passenger station, and from soliciting the. custom of passengers

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for cabs, etc., until the further order of the court; and that
this order was so modified in the Circuit Court of Appeals as
to restrain only such congregating by defendants upon the sidewalk as would interfere with the ingress and egress of passengers
and employ~s. We take it that the final decree recognized
the right of the defendants in prosecuting their business to
congregate, in reasonable numbers, upon the sidewalks in
front-of, adjacent to or about the entrance of the company's
station, and from there soliciting the custom of passengers,
provided such use of the sidewalks did not obstruct the ingress
and egress of passengers and employ~s.
As the railroad company did not appeal from the final
decree of the Circuit Court, it cannot upon this appeal complain of any of its provisions. The defendants did appeal, and
they object to "the decree relating to the use of the sidewalk
and street in front of the main entrance to the passenger depot.
That the railroad company by its agents and employ6s is
entitled, in prosecuting its business, to use, in all appropriate
ways, the sidewalk and street in front of its station and depot
grounds, cannot be doubted-that right being appurtenant
to the lands upon which its station house and depot grounds
stand. Passengers may, therefore, in their own right, as well
as in right of the company, use the sidewalk in order to gain
access to the depot grounds and station, or to reach the public
street when leaving the station.
Referring to the rights of abutting owners, the Supreme
Court of Illinois, in Field v. Barling, 149 Illinois, 556, 571,
said: "The dedication of the street by the plat, the sale of
lots with reference to it, conveyance of abutting lots and the
payment of the money for the conveyances, were elements
sufficient to create the right. The right may be regarded in
the nature of an incorporeal hereditament. It becomes appurtenant to the lots. As to rights seeured they are plain:
to have the street kept open, so that free access may be had
to and from the lots abutting on the street." In the later case
of Pennsylvania Company v. Chicago, 181 Illinois, 289, above

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

cited, that court adjudged that the title to the streets in Chicago
was vested in the city, and "it has the conservation, control,
management and supervision of such trust property, and it is
its duty to defend and protect the title to such trust estate.
The city has no power or authority to grant the exclusive use
of its streets to any private person or for any private purposes,
but must hold and control the possession exclusively for public
use, for purposes of travel and the like." The general doctrine
is correctly stated in Dillon on Municipal Corporations: "For
example, an abutting owner's right of access to and from the
stteet, subject only to legitimate public regulation, is as much
his property as his right to the soil within his boundary lines.
When he is deprived of such right of access, or of any other
easement connected with the use and enjoyment of his property, other than by the exercise of legitimate public regulation, he is deprived of his property." Again: "But it was
further seen that he had rights not shared by the public at
large, special and peculiar to himself, and which arose out of
the very relation of his lot to the street in front of it, and that
these rights, whether the bare fee of the streets was in the lot
owner or in the city, were rights of property, and as such ought
to be and were as sacred from legislative invasion as his right
to the lot itself." 2 Dill. Mun. Corp., 4th ed., §§ 587b, 656a.
So, in Lewis on Eminent Domain, where the adjudged cases
are referred to and examined: "When the owner of a tract of
land lays the same out into lots and streets and sells the lots,
the purchasers of such lots acquire as appurtenant thereto a
private right of way and access over the streets. This private
right arises without an express grant and in the absence of any
statute. The law presumes that the parties had in mind the
advantages to be derived from the use of the proposed streets,
and implies a right to such use as a part of the grant. . .
Therefore, in the case of such a grant, there arises by operation
of law a private right to use the streets in connection with the
lots of each proprietor, which is as inviolable as any other right
of property.

.

.

. The existence of these private rights

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and easements is, therefore, entirely independent of the mode
in which the highway is established, or of the estate or interest
which the public acquires in the soil of the street, whether a
fee or less." Lewis on Eminent Domain, 2d ed., §91f and
authorities cited in notes. See, also, Newell v. Sass, 142 Illinois,
104.
But the right of the railroad company, as abutting owner
and the rights of passengers are not, in their nature, paramount to the rights of others of the general public to use the
sidewalk in question in legitimate ways and for legitimate
purposes. Licensed hackmen and cabmen, unless forbidden
by valid local regulations, may, within reasonable limits, use
a public sidewalk in prosecuting their calling, provided such
use is not materially obstructive in its nature, that is, of such
exclusive character as, in a substantial sense, to prevent others
from also using it upon equal terms for legitimate purposes.
Generally speaking, public sidewalks and streets are for use
by all, upon equal terms, for any purpose consistent with the
object for which such sidewalks and streets are established;
subject of course to such valid regulations as may be prescribed
by the constituted authorities for the public convenience; this,
to the end that, as far as possible, the rights of all may be
conserved without undue discrimination.
By the Illinois statutes it is provided that the city council
in cities may regulate the use of streets and sidewalks, and
license, tax and regulate hackmen, omnibus drivers, carters,
cabmen, porters, expressmen and all others pursuing like occupations, and to prescribe their compensation. Hurd's Ill.
Stat. 1901, pp. 285, 287. And by ordinance of the city council
of Chicago it is provided that "any licensed hackney, coach,
cab or other vehicles for the conveyance of passengers, may
stand, while waiting for employment at the following places,
and for the period of time hereinafter provided:

.

.

Stand No. 4. The east side of Canal street, occupying one
hundred and ten feet between Adams and Madison streets, as
the superintendent of police shall direct.

.

.

.

Stand No. 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

At all railroad depots ten minutes previous to the arrival of
all passenger trains." Rev. Code of Chicago, § 498. The
validity of this ordinance has been sustained by the Supreme
Court of Illinois. Pennsylvania Co. v. Chicago, 181 Illinois,
289. Perceiving nothing in the above provisions inconsistent
with any right secured by the Constitution of the United States,
we accept the decision of the state court as authoritative upon
this point. When, therefore, licensed hackmen and cabmen,
at appropriate times, placed their vehicles in the public street,
hext to the sidewalk, in front of the company's passenger
house, they did not violate the regulations established by the
city council. Nor, so far as the plaintiff is concerned, did they
violate such regulations, when, leaving their vehicles in the
public street, at the appointed places, they' stood near by them
for a reasonable time upon the sidewalk awaiting the coming
of passengers from the station house. What they could not
legally do-what the final decree properly forbade them to do
-was to congregate upon the sidewalk in front of, adjacent to
or about the passenger house, so as to interfere with the ingress
and egress of passengers. Of course, any use of the sidewalk
in whatever way that would unnecessarily or unduly obstruct
and interfere with passengers in their going or coming would
be inconsistent with the rights of such passengers, as well as
an infringement of the right of the company as abutting property owner to have, by its agents and employ~s, for the purposes of its business, reasonable access to and from the sidewalk and the public street.
It only remains to inquire as to the competency of a court
of equity to give the railroad company the relief it sought.
The defendants insist that equity cannot properly interfere.
But the inadequacy of a legal remedy in such a case as this one
is quite apparent. According to the record the attempt of the
defendants, despite the objections of the company, to use its
station house and depot grounds for the purpose of meeting
passengers and soliciting their patronage, was of constant,
daily, almost hourly occurrence. The case was one of a con-

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tinuing trespass, involving injury of a permanent nature. A
suit at law could only have determined the particular wrong
occurring on a particular occasion, and would not reach other
wrongs of like character that would occur almost every hour
of each day, as passengers arrived at the station of the company. The same state of things existed in reference to such
use of the sidewalk in front of the passenger station as unduly
interfered with the rights of passengers arriving and departing. Only a court of equity was competent to meet such an
unusual emergency, and by a comprehensive decree determine
finally and once for all the entire controversy between the
parties-thus avoiding a multiplicity of suits and conserving
the public interests. No remedy at law would be so complete
or efficacious as a suit in equity in such a case as this one.
Coosaw Mining Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S. 550; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 517. The Supreme Court of Illinois well
said in Chicago General Ry. Co. v. C., B. & Q. R., 181 Illinois,
605, 611: "When irreparable injury is spoken of it is not
meant that the injury is beyond the possibility of repair, or
beyond the possibility of compensation in damages, but it
must be of such constant and frequent recurrence that no fair
or reasonable redress can be had therefor in a court of law."
See also Newell v.:Sass, 142 Illinois, 104, 115, 116; Carpenter
v. Capital Electric Co., 178 Illinois, 29, 36; Lowery v. Pekin,
186 Illinois, 387, 398.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
VOL. cxcrx-20

