342

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

298 U.S.

McCANDLESS ET AL. v. 'UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 552.

Argued March 30, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. In condemnation cases, the most profitable use to which the land
can probably be put in the reasonably near future may be shown
and considered as bearing upon the market value; and the fact that
such use can be made only in connection with other lands does not
necessarily exclude it from consideration if the possibility of such
connection is reasonably sufficient to affect market value. P. 345.
2. An offer of proof cannot be denied as remote or speculative because it does not cover every fact necessary to prove the issue.
It if be an appropriate link in the chain of proof, that is enough.
P. 346.
3. In a suit to condemn land which would be adapted to the successful growth of sugar cane if provided with sufficient water for
irrigation, held:
(1) Erroneous to reject, upon the ground of immateriality, an
offer to prove that a supply of water was available on other, distant land, and might be brought to the land sought to be condemned at an expense consistent with its profitable use. P. 345.
(2) The error was prejudicial notwithstanding that the offer
was not supplemented by a further offer to prove the cost of
developing and delivering a sufficient supply, and what. would be
the value of the land when so reclaimed. P. 347.
4. Section 269, Jud. Code, requiring that judgment on review shall
be given after an examination of the entire record "without regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not affect
the substantial rights of the parties," does not change the wellsettled rule that an erroneous ruling which relates to the substantial rights of a party is ground for reversal unless it affirmatively appears from the whole record that it was not prejudicial.
P. 347.
74 F. (2d) 596, reveied.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 570, to review the affirmance of a
judgment condemning land in Hawaii for the United
States and fixing the compensation at a sum not satisfactory to the land owners, who on that account appealed.

McCANDLESS v. UNITED STATES.
342

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Urban Earl Wild and Julius Russell Cades for
petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Blair, with whom Solicitor
General Reed and Mr. Aubrey Lawrence were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in the United States District
Court for the Territory of Hawaii by the government
against petitioners to condemn 4,080 acres of land on the
Island of Oahu for a federal public purpose. The territorial law provides that in such a suit the value of the
land and the value of the improvements thereon must be
separately assessed. A common-law jury was empaneled,
heard the case, and returned a verdict for petitioners fixing the value of the land at $206,503.51, and the value
of the improvements thereon at $14,000. Judgment was
entered in accordance with the verdict. On appeal to the
court below, the judgment was affirmed. 74 F. (2d) 596.
The questions for our consideration are whether the
ruling of the trial court refusing to admit certain evidence and offers of evidence was erroneous, and if so,
whether the rejection of such evidence may be disregarded as not substantially prejudicial under ยง 269 of the
Judicial Code as amended.
First. The lands sought to be condemned were in use,
and had been used for many years, as a cattle ranch,
although pineapples had been grown upon some small
areas. The owners had in view the ultimate use of the
lands for the growing of sugar cane, which would require
the bringing of water from a distance for irrigation purposes. Testimony was introduced to the effect that upwards of 3,000 acres of the tract were suitable for growing cane, and would produce an average of 70 to 75 tons

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

of sugar cane to the acre, from which could be extracted
eight or nine tons of sugar to the acre; and that the contour of the land was favorable -to irrigation, and its general condition such as to make it adaptable to the purposes of a sugar plantation. Petitioners offered to prove
that they had been for many years negotiating for the
development of a sugar plantation on the land; that
there were three sources of water supply, from one or
the other of which petitioners had every reason to expect
water would have been developed for the lands in question had it not been for the present suit; that any prospective purchaser of the lands would, at the time this
suit was brought, take into consideration the reasonableness of the possibility of securing a supply of water for
the purpose of raising sugar cane; that sugar-cane lands
in the territory generally require the bringing of water
from other lands for irrigation, and that the availability
of water for such purpose is a factor in determining the
value of prospective sugar cane lands; that such water
in many instances is transported much greater distances
than would be required in the pending case; that there
are available artesian basins from which for many years
fresh artesian water has been and is available, unused and
flowing to waste, amounting to approximately 60,000,000
gallons per day; that petitioners own lands within these
basins upon which wells may be sunk at distances of
from eight to ten-and-one-half miles from the tract in
question, and the water last described recovered; that
it was practically and economically feasible to transport
such water from the lands within these basins to the
tract in question; that the cost of recovering and transporting such water would render the use of it economically feasible and profitable; and that such recovery and
use of the water could be anticipated with reasonable
certainty.
Petitioners offered further to prove that the surplus
water could be captured and transported practicably and

McCANDLESS v. UNITED STATES.
342

345

Opinion of the Court.

economically and used profitably for the cultivation
of sugar cane; and that the cost 9 f recovering the water
and transporting it would be less per million gallons than
that incurred for recovery and transportation of water
to other cane lands on the Island of Oahu and other
islands in the territory.
These offers, and evidence of a similar character sought
to be elicited from witnesses, were rejected by the trial
court upon the ground that the possibility of bringing
water from outside sources was too remote and speculative.
At the conclusion of the evidence, the court gave the
following instruction to the jury:
"In estimating the compensation to be paid to the
owners of the land which the government here seeks to
condemn, I instruct you that you must entirely disregard
any possibility of bringing water to the land in question
from any other land, excepting the land which the government here seeks to condemn and the 284 acre tract,
Lot B 1 A."
The 284-acre tract referred to is owned by petitioners,
and .adjoins the land sought to be condemned.
The rule is well settled that, in condemnation cases,
the most profitable use to which the land can probably
be put in the reasonably near future may be shown and
considered as bearing upon the market value; and the
fact that such use can be made only in connection with
other lands does not necessarily exclude it from consideration if the possibility of such connection is reasonably
sufficient to affect market value. Olson v. United States,
292 U. S. 246, 255, 256.
That the greater part of the land here sought to be
condemned was adapted to the successful growth of sugar
cane if provided with sufficient water for irrigation is not
controverted. Proof that a supply of water was available
and might be brought to the land at an expense con-

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

sistent with its profitable use was, therefore, relevant and
-material. And this the evidence offered tended to establish. The ruling of the trial court rejecting the offers,
and its instruction to the jury to disregard the possibility
of bringing water from lands other than the land sought
to be condemned and the 284-acre tract adjoining, were
erroneous. This is well pointed out by the court below,
and we see no occasion to enlarge upon its opinion.
The government now contends that the offer was insufficient because it does not exhibit an intention to show
how much the value of the land would be increased, or
the probable cost of the irrigation improvement. The
evidence offered was material and relevant to the issue
so far as it went. No objection was made on 'the part
of the government such as is now urged. The objection
specifically was that the possibility" of bringing water
from outside sources was too remote and speculative;
and it is that objection which the trial court sustained.
The ruling went not to the sufficiency of the offer, but to
the materiality of the evidence. If it had been suggested
or held that the offer was incomplete, it is not unfair,
When we consider the nature of the specific matters
named, to assume that the evidence in respect of them
could have been supplied. In that view, what was said
by the Supreme Court of California in Palner v. McCafferty, 15 Cal. 334, 336, is pertinent:
"All that the Court can ask is, that the particular evidence offered conduces to establish any one proposition
involved in the issue. . .. There must be a starting place
somewhere, and the Court should never reject evidence.
merely because, unaided by other testimony, it is insufficient, if it tend legally to prove any part of the case."
An offer of proof cannot be denied as remote or speculative because it does not cover every fact necessary to
prove the issue. If it be an appropriate link in the chain
of proof, that is enough.

McCANDLESS v. UNITED STATES.
342

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The court below, while ruling that the rejection of the evidence was erroneous, held that it was not
prejudicial error within the terms of ยง 269 of the Judicial
Code, as amended (28 U. S. C. ยง 391), reproduced in the
margin.' The court thought the offers of proof were not
sufficiently specific to enable it to say that the rejection,
although erroneous, was prejudicial. Apparently what
was meant by the offers not being sufficiently specific,
as indicated by a statement earlier in the opinion, is that
they did not show what would be the value of the land
when reclaimed, nor the cost of developing and delivering a sufficient water supply. But that seems to be the
exact basis of the government's contention that the offer
was not complete, which, affirming the court below, we
have just held is without merit. We think equally it
constitutes no ground for sustaining the ruling of the trial
court as non-prejudicial. The action of the trial court
in rejecting the offers plainly meant that it would be
useless to offer-further evidence supplementing and dependent upon that which had been rejected. Faced with
that ruling and implication, counsel was not required to
offer further evidence along that line. Cf. Rogers v.
Brent, 10 Ill. 573, 588, 589.
In this situation, ยง 269 is not controlling. That section simply requires that judgment on review shall be
given after an examination of the entire record "without
regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which
do not affect the substantial rights of the parties." This,
as the language plainly shows, does not change the wellsettled rule that an erroneous ruling which relates to the
substantial rights of a party is ground for reversal unless
"On the hearing of any appeal, certiorari, or motion for a new
trial, in any case, civil or criminal, the court shall give judgment
after an examination of the entire record before the court, without
regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not affect

the substantial rights of the parties."

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

it affirmatively appears from the whole record that it
was not prejudicial. United States v. River Rouge Co.,
269 U. S. 411, 421; Fillippon v. Albion Vein Slate Co.,
250 U. S. 76, 82; Williams v. Great Southern Lumber
Co., 277 U. S. 19, 26.
This the record does not disclose. In an eminentdomain proceeding, the vital issue-and generally the
only issue-is that of just compensation. The proof
here offered necessarily related to the value of the land
when used for a purpose to which it probably could be
put within the rule laid down by the Olson case, supra.
To exclude from the consideration of the jury evidence
of this elementary character could not be otherwise than
prejudicial.
We find no reason to differ with the holding of the
court below as to the inadmissibility of evidence respecting the rent paid for other lands. It is unnecessary to
consider whether the error was prejudicial, because the
question cannot arise upon another trial.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed,
and the cause remanded to the trial court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

