INTERNATIONAL MACHINES CORP. v. U. S.

131

Syllabus.

124

no more than a request to charge that his negligence
was a defense. Contributory negligence is not a defense
to a suit brought either under the Jones Act or under the
maritime law for. injuries attributable to negligently defective equipment. Under both it is ground only for
apportionment of the damage, see The Frank and Willie,
supra; 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C. § 53. So far as the record
discloses petitioner made no request for an instruction as
to apportionment of the damage.
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP.
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 758.

Argued April 8, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

Section 3 of the Clayton Act declares it unlawful for any person
engaged in commerce to lease machinery "whether patented or
unpatented" on the condition that the lessee shall not use supplies or other commodities of the lessor's competitor, where the
effect of the condition "may be" to lessen competition substantially or tend to create a monopoly. Held:
1. The prohibition is violated by a condition requiring a lessee
to operate the leased machine only with supplies from the lessor,
since this, in effect, precludes the use of supplies of a competitor.
P. 134.
2. While the section does not purport to curtail the patent
monopoly of the lessor, the prohibition of tying clauses is not limited to unpatented supplies but includes also supplies which have
been patented to the lessor either separately or in combination
with the patented machine. P. 136.
3. Assuming that, by implied exception, a tying clause would
not violate the provision, though it tended to create a monopoly,
if its purpose and effect were to protect the good will of the lessor
in the leased machines, there is no basis for the exception where
the substantial benefit of the? clause to the lessor is in the elimina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298U.S.

tion of competition and where it does not appear that protection
of his good will cannot be achieved by methods that do not tend
to monopoly and are not otherwise unlawful. P. 138.
13 F. Supp. 11, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree enjoining, as contrary to the
Clayton Act, certain clauses which the appellant had been
placing in its leases of tabulating machines, requiring the
use of tabulating cards of its own manufacture.
Messrs. Martin A. Schenck and Drury W. Cooper, with
whom Mr. Edward Cornell was on the brief, for appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Charles H. Weston and
George P. Alt were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal, § 238 of the Judicial Code, from so
much of a decree of a District Court for Southern New
York as enjoins the appellant from leasing its tabulating
and other machines upon the condition that the lessees
shall use with such machines only tabulating cards manufactured by appellant, as a violation of § 3 of the Clayton
Act, 38 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 14.
The Government brought the suit against appellant
and three other corporations, all manufacturers of machines performing substantially the same functions as
appellant's, to restrain the use by each of the defendants of a specified type of lease of their machines as a
violation of the Clayton Act, and to declare void under
the Sherman Act a contract into which they had entered,
by which each agreed to use that type of lease, and not
to solicit the lessees of machines of the others to purchase
tabulating cards which it manufactures. The case was
tried upon the pleadings and a stipulation of facts, in
which the defendants consented to a decree cancelling

INTERNATIONAL MACHINES; CORP. v. U. S.
131

133

Opinion of the Court.

their agreement with each other. Two of the defendants
have been eliminated from the suit, one by dissolution
and the other by merger with appellant. 'A third defendant, Remington Rand, Inc., has stipulated that the decree
to be entered against it shall conform to that entered
against appellant upon this appeal.
Appellant's machines and those of Remington Rand,
Inc., are now the only ones on the market which perform
certain mechanical tabulations and computations, without
any intervening manual operation, by the use in them
of cards upon which are recorded data which are the subject of tabulation or computation. Appellant manufactures three types of machines, known as punching machines, sorters and tabulators. The punching machines
are used to perforate cards, called tabulating cards, in
such manner that the positions of the perforations indicate numerical or other data. When the cards are passed
through the sorter or tabulator, control of its mechanism
is effected by electrical circuits established by contacts
through the perforations. The cards are thus made permanent records of information, and by the perforations
are given such form that they may be used, as often as
required, to control the function of the machines through
which they are passed. The sorting machines are used
to sort the perforated cards so as to classify them by the
selection and segregation, in the desired manner, of-those
signifying any particular type of information. The tabulating machines are used to record the information denoted by the perforated cards or to make computations
based upon it. In the Remington Rand machines the
control is not electrical, but is accomplished by the use
of cards which admit of the movement, into the perforations, of small pins which, by linkage, guide the mechanical operation of the machine so as to effect the desired
result.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

To insure satisfactory performance by appellant's machines it is necessary that the cards used in them conform to precise specifications as to size and thickness,
and that they be free from defects due to slime or carbon
spots, which cause unintended electrical contacts and
consequent inaccurate results. The cards manufactured
by appellant are electrically tested for such defects.
Appellant leases its machines for a specified rental and
period, upon condition that the lease shall terminate in
case any cards not manufactured by the lessor are used in
the leased machine. A special form of lease has been
granted to the Government by which it is permitted to
use cards of its own manufacture upon paying a. 15%
increase in the rental of the leased machines, but upon
condition that the lease shall be terminable if the Government uses such cards without payment of the additional
rental.
Appellant insists that the condition of its leases is not
within the prohibition of the Clayton Act, and it has
assigned as error the conclusion of the district court that
the condition tends to create monopoly. But its principal contentions are that its leases are lawful because
the protection secured by the condition does not extend
beyond the monopoly which it has acquired by patents
on the cards and on the machines in which they are used,
and that in any case the condition is permissible under
§ 3 of the Clayton Act because its purpose and effect are
only to preserve to appellant the good will of its patrons
by preventing the use of unsuitable cards which would
interfere with the successful performance of its machines.
1. Section 3 of the Clayton Act, so far as it is applicable to the present case, provides that "It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commerce, in the course
of such commerce, to lease . . . machinery . . . whether'
patented or unpatented, for use . . . within the United
States . . . on the condition . . that the lessee . ..

INTERNATIONAL MACHINES CORP. v. U' S.
131

135

Opinion of the Court.

shall not use ... supplies or other commodities of a
competitor . . . , where the effect of such lease . . . or
such condition . .. may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce." The statute thus in precise terms makes
unlawful a condition that the lessee shall not use the
supplies or commodities of a competitor of the lessor if
the effect of the condition "may be" to lessen competition
substantially, or if it tends to create a monopoly.
Little need be said of the contention that the condition of appellant's leases does not infringe these prohibitions. It is true that the condition is not in so many
words against the use of the cards of a competitor, but
is affirmative in form, that the lessee shall use only appellant's cards in the leased machines. But as the lessee
can make no use of the cards except with the leased machines, and the specified use of appellant's cards precludes the use of the cards of any competitor, the condition operates in the manner forbidden by the statute.
See United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States, 258
U. S. 451, 457, 458; compare Federal Trade Comin'n v.
Sinclair Refining Co., 261 U. S. 463, 474. A different
question is presented from that in the Sinclair case,
where a wholesale distributor of gasoline leased gasoline
pumps to retail dealers with the stipulation that they
should not be used for the pumping of gasoline of the
lessor's competitors. As the only use made of the gasoline was to'sell it, and as there was no restraint upon the
purchase and sale of competing gasoline, there was no
violation of the Clayton Act.
The conclusion of the trial court that appellant's leases
infringe the monopoly provisions of the section does not
want for support in the record. The agreed use of the
"tying clause" by appellant and its only competitors, and
the agreement by each of them to restrict its competition
in the sale of 'cards to the lessees of the others, have oper-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

ated to prevent competition and to create a monopoly in
the production and sale of tabulating cards suitable for
appellant's machines, as the district court found. The
commerce in tabulating cards is substantial. Appellant
makes and sells 3,000,000,000 cards annually, 81% of the
total, indicating that the sales by the Remington Rand
company, its only competitor, representing the remaining 19%, are approximately 600,000,000. It is stipulated
that appellant derives a "substantial" profit from its card
sales. The gross receipts from its machines during the
past ten years have averaged $9,710,389 a year, and an
average of $3,192,700 has been derived annually from
the sale of its cards. These facts, and others, which we
do not stop to enumerate, can leave no doubt that the
effect of the condition in appellant's leases "may be to
substantially lessen competition," and that it tends to
create monopoly, and has in fact been an important and
effective step in the creation of monopoly.
2. On the trial appellant offered to prove its ownership
of patents which, it asserts, give it a monopoly of the
right to manufacture, use and vend the cards, separately,
and in combination with its sorting and tabulating machines, of which, it insists, they are a part. It argues
that the condition of its leases is lawful because it does
not enlarge the monopoly secured by the patents, and
that the trial court erred in refusing to consider appellant's patent monopoly as a defense to the suit.
Appellant's patents appear to extend only to the cards
when perforated, and to have no application to those
which the lessees purchase before they are punched. The
contention is thus reduced to the dubious claim that the
sale of the un-punched cards is a contributory infringement of the patents covering the use of perforated cards
separately and in combination with the machines. See
Carbice Corporation v. American Patents Development
Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Uni-

INTERNATIONAL MACHINES CORP. v. U. S. 137
131

Opinion of the Court.

versal Film Mfg. Co., 243 U. S. 502; McGrath Holding
Corp. v. Anzell, 58 F. (2d) 205; cf. Leeds & Catlin Co. v.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 325.
But we do not place our decision on this narrow ground.
We rest it rather on the language of § 3 of the Clayton Act
which expressly makes tying clauses unlawful, whether
the machine leased is "patented or unpatented." The
section does not purport to curtail the patent monopoly
of the lessor or to restrict its protection by suit for infringement. But it does in terms deny to the lessor of
a patented, as well as of an unpatented niachine, the benefit of any condition or agreement that the lessee shall
not use the supplies of a competitor. The only purpose
oi effect of the tying clause, so far as it could be effectively
applied to patented articles, is either to prevent the use,
by a lessee, of the product of a competitor of the lessor,
where the lessor's patent, prima facie, embraces that
product, and thus avoid judicial review of the patent, or
else to compel its examination in every suit brought to
set aside the tying clause, although the suit could usually
result in no binding adjudication as to the validity of the
patent, since infringement would not be in issue. The
phrase "whether patented or unpatented" would seem
well chosen to foreclose the possibility of either
alternative.
When Congress had before it the bill which became § 3
of the Clayton.Act, it was familiar with the decision of
this Court in Henryv. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, and with
the contentions made in United States v. United Shoe
Machinery Co., 247 U. S. 33, then pending before this
Court---cases in which it was held that a tying clause could
lawfully be extended to unpatented supplies for a leased
patented machine. Cong. Rec., Vol. 51, Part 14, 63rd
Cong., 2d Sess., 14,089 ff.; see Henderson, The Federal
Trade Commission, 30. One purpose of § 3 undoubtedly
was to prevent such use of the tying clause. United Shoe

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Machinery Co. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451. But the
debates on § 3, on the floor of the Senate, disclose that it
was well known to that body that one of the contentions
in the pending cause, United States v. United Shoe
Machinery Co.) 247 U. S. 33, was that it was permissible,
in any circumstances, for a lessor to tie several patented
articles together. They show that the proponents of the
bill were as much concerned that that practice should be
prohibited as that the tying of non-patented to patented
articles should be ended. Cong. Rec., Vol. 51, Part 14,
63rd Cong., 3d Sess., 14275. The phrase, "whether
patented or unpatented" as used in § 3 is as applicable to
the one practice as to the other. It would fail of the
purpose which it plainly expresses if it did not operate to
preclude the possibility of both, and to make the validity
of the tying clause a matter to be determined independently of the protection afforded by any monopoly of the
lessor. Such, we think, must be taken to be the effect of
the section unless its language and history are to be disregarded. Under its provisions the lawfulness of the tying
clause must be ascertained by applying to it the standards prescribed by § 3 as though the leased article and its
parts were unpatented.
3. Despite the plain language of § 3, making unlawful
the tying clause when it tends to create a monopoly,
appellant insists that it does not forbid tying clauses
whose purpose and effect are to protect the good will
of the lessor in the leased machines, even though monopoly ensues. In support of this contention appellant
places great emphasis on the admitted fact that it is
essential to the successful performance of the leased
machines that the cards used in them conform, with relatively minute tolerances, to specifications as to size, thickness and freedom from defects which would affect adversely the electrical circuits indispensable to the proper

INTERNATIONAL MACHINES CORP. v. U. S.
131

139

Opinion of the Court.

operation of the machines. The point is stressed that
failure, even though occasional, to conform to these requirements, causes inaccuracies in the functioning of the
machine, serious in their consequences and difficult to
trace to their source, with consequent injury to the reputation of the machines and the good will of the lessors.
There is no contention that others than appellant cannot
meet these requirements. It affirmatively appears, by
stipulation, that others are capable of manufacturing
cards suitable for use in appellant's machines, and that
paper required for that purpose may be obtained from the
manufacturers who supply appellant. The Remington
Rand company manufactures cards suitable for its own
machines, but since it has been barred by the agreement
with appellant from selling its cards for use in appellant's
machines, its cards are not electrically tested. The Government, under the provisions of its lease, following its
own methods, has made large quantities of the cards,
which are in successful use with appellant's machines.
The suggestion that without the tying clause an adequate
supply of cards would not be forthcoming from competitive sources is not supported by the evidence. "The very
existence of such restrictions suggests that in its absence
a competing article of equal or better quality would be
offered at the same or at a lower price." Carbice Corporation v. American Patents Development Corp., supra,
32, Note 2, quoting Vaughan, Economics of Our Patent
System, 125, 127. Appellant's sales of cards return a
substantial profit and the Government's payment of 15%
increase in rental to secure the privilege of making its
own cards is profitable only if it produces the cards at a
cost less than 55% of the price charged by appellant.
Appellant is not prevented from proclaiming the virtues of its own cards or warning against the danger of
using, in its machines, cards which do not conform to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

necessary specifications, or even from making its leases
conditional upon the use of cards which conform to them.
For aught that appears such measures would protect its
good will, without the creation of monopoly or resort to
the suppression of competition.
The Clayton Act names no exception to its prohibition
of monopolistic tying clauses. Even if we are free to
make an exception to its unambiguous command, see
United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 264 Fed.
138, 167;' Auto Acetylene Light Co. v. Prest-O-Lite Co.,
276 Fed. 537; Pick Manufacturing Co. v. General Motors
Corp., 80 F. (2d) 641; cf. Radio Corporationv. Lord, 28
F. (2d) 257, we can perceive no tenable basis for an exception in favor of a condition whose substantial benefit to
the lessor is the elimination of business competition and
the creation of monopoly, rather than the protection of
its good will, and where it does not appear that the latter
can not be achieved by methods which do not tend to
monopoly and are not otherwise unlawful.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
'In this case the Government sought no review of the determination of the district court that the tying clause was valid so far as it
requires lessees to purchase of the lessor supplies and parts of the
leased machines. See United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States,
258 U. S. 451.

