ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.

513

Syllabus.

ASHTON ET AL. v. CAMERON COUNTY WATER
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. ONE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 859.

Argued April 29, 1936.-Decided.May 25, 1936.

1. A district organized to furnish water for irrigation and domestic
uses, which became a County Water Improvement District, all
pursuant to the Constitution and statutes of Texas, with power

to sue and be sued, issue bonds, and levy and collect taxes,-held
a political subdivision of the State. P. 527.
2. The Act of May 24, 1934, added three sections (§§ 78-80) to the
Bankruptcy Act, purporting to permit municipal corporations and
other political subdivisions of States, unable to pay their debts

as they mature, to resort to the federal courts of bankruptcy to
effect readjustment of obligations. Plans involving a scaling down,
compromise, or repudiation of debts, without surrender of any
property whatever, if approved initially by creditors holding 30%,
and finally by those holding 66 2 %, of the indebtedness, could be enforced by the court, under conditions specified, though opposed by
minority creditors. Held that the power claimed in support of the
Act necessarily implies power in the Federal Government materially
to restrict the States in the control of their fiscal affairs. Such
authority is not found in the power of Congress to establish uniform
laws on the subject'of bankruptcies. Pp. 527, 530,
3. In determining the existence of a constitutional power, inquiry is
not limited to the results of its attempted exercise; it is of the
first importance to consider what might be the results of its future
exercise. P. 530.
4. It is the especial purpose of all bankruptcy legislation to change,
modify or impair the obligations of contracts. The Act in question
elpresses this design in plain terms; it undertakes to extend the
supposed power of the Federal Government incident to bankruptcy
over any embarrassed district which may apply to the court.
P. 530.
5. If their obligations may be subjected to the interference here
attempted, States and their political subdivisions are no longer
free to manage their own affairs; the will of Congress prevails
over them. P,531.
65773°-136-

33

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

298 U. S.

6. A State cannot constitutionally impair the obligations of contracts by a law in the form of a bankruptcy law, nor can she
reach the same end by granting permission necessary to enable
Congress to do so. P. 531.
7. Neither consent nor submission by the States can enlarge the
powers of Congress. The sovereignty essential to the proper
functioning of a State under the Constitution cannot be surrendered, nor can it be taken away by any form of legislation.
Id.
8. The same basic reasoning which leads to the conclusion that the
taxing power of Congress does not extend to the States or their
subdivisions requires a like limitation upon the power springing
from the bankruptcy clause. P. 532.
81 F. (2d) 905, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review the reversal of a judgment of
the Bankruptcy Court dismissing a petition filed by the
Water District for a reduction of its bonded indebtedness.

Mr. Palmer Hutcheson, with whom Messrs. J. W. Terry
and W. P. Hamblen were on the brief, for petitioners.
The Act conflicts with Hopkins Federal Savings &
Loan Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315; United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 74; United States v. Constantine,296 U. S.
287. See Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford,
295 U. S. 555.
The Texas Constitution and statutes provide for the
organization of irrigation and water improvement districts, which are governmental agencies with power to
levy and collect taxes 'for public purposes. Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ward County Irrigation District, 112
Tex. 593; Parker v. El Paso Water Imp. District, li6
Tex. 631; Hester and Roberts v. Donna Irrigation District, 239 S. W. 992.
The rights of the bondholders include the right to compel collection of taxes by the municipality issuing the
bonds. Voorhies v. Houston, 70 Tex. 331; Hidalgo
See Table of Cases Reported ia this volume.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

515

Argument for Petitioners.

County v. Morcy, 74 F. (2d) 101; Von Hoffman v.
Quincy, 4 Wall. 535.
The tax being sanctioned by the State, and provision
therefor being required as a prerequisite to the issuance
of the bonds, and the bonds being issued for the performance of a public purpose by a governmental agency of the
State, neither the State nor the Federal Government can
interfere-the State, because it cannot impair the obligation of contracts, and the Federal Government because it
cannot impair the sovereignty of the State. Rorick v.
Commissioners, Everglades Drainage District, 57 F. (2d)
1048; Meriwether v. Garrett,102 U. S. 472; Lane County
v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71.
Irrigation, drainage, and related public projects are all
State governmental functions. Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; O'Neill v. Learner, 239 U. S.
244; Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S.
254.
The maintenance of the faith and credit of the State
involves the maintenance of the faith and credit of its
political subdivisions. Anderson County Road District
No. 8 v. Pollard, 116 Tex. 547; Tom Green County v.
Moody, 116 Tex. 299; Robbins v. Limestone County, 114
Tex. 356.
The power to "lay and collect taxes" under the Federal Constitution is embraced in the same section as the
power to pass "uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States." § 8, Art. I. It
has long been recognized that this power of taxation cannot be exercised in a manner that invades state sovereignty. Buffington v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Pollock v.
FarmersLoan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 id. 601.
A statute of Texas expressly provides that the directors
of such a district shall levy a tax upon all property within
the district sufficient to pay the interest on the bonds and
to provide for their redemption at maturity. Rev. Civ.
Sts. 1925, art. 7712.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

298 U. S.

The faith, credit and resources of the District were
pledged by the Constitution and statutes of the State, for
payment of the bonds. See Rorick v. Commissioners,
Everglades Drainage District, supra; Village of Kent v.
United States, 113 Fed. 232. The bonds and taxes were
acts of sovereignty in performance of governmental duties.
United States v. RailroadCo., 17 Wall. 322.
The mere declaration in § 80 (k) of the Act in question that "nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed to limit or impair the power of any State to
control, by legislation or otherwise, any political subdivision thereof in the exercise of its political or governmental powers" cannot save the Act from the charge
of unconstitutionality, because the Act seeks to reach
the political subdivision, not only when the State consents, but also when the State has not exercised its
power "to require the approval by any governmental
agency of the State of the filing of any petition," or has
no existing fiscal agency whose affirmative approval is
required under the terms of the Act.
The State can no more impair its obligations through
action in the federal court, than it can through action
in the state court. The protection of the Constitution,
both national and state, surrounds both forms. The
State can waive venue or jurisdiction, and appear in the
fedeial court, but cannot thereby submit itself to the
application of a federal Act which has no power otherwise to reach it.
The mere fact that the Eleventh Amendment does not
prohibit suits against counties and other political subdivisions does not change their nature or characteristics.
No distinction has been drawn between the powers of
the Federal Government in levying taxes against state
bonds, or bonds issued by political subdivisions of a
State.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

517

Argument for Petitioners.

State sovereignty cannot be waived except by constitutional amendment, delegating power to the Federal
Government.
The Act is unconstitutional because it is not uniform
throughout the United States. It depends for its application not upon the will of Congress, but upon the will
of the Legislature of each State. See InternationalShoe
Co. v, Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261. It does not apply in every
State of the Union which has political subdivisions that
could invoke it, but only in such States as may not object
to its application. Furthermore, one district within a
State may be permitted by the State to invoke the Act,
and another district may be denied that privilege. Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, distinguished.
State legislation giving consent to the application of
the Act would impair the obligation of contracts contrary
to § 10, Art. I, of the Federal Constitution, and § 16,
Art. I, of the Texas Constitution. In re Dillard, 7 Fed.
Cas. 3912; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 560; Travelers
Insurance Co. v. Marshall, 124 Tex. 45; Cattle Raisers
Loan Co. v. Doan, 86 S. W. (2d) 252; Pryor v. Goza,
159 So. 99.
The Act violates the Fifth Amendment. Bondholders
are deprived of their right to compel the levy and collection of taxes and the enforcement of tax liens by sale if
necessary. Voorhies v. Houston, 70 Tex. 331; Hidalgo
County v. Morey, 74 F. (2d) 101; Louisville Joint Stock
Land Bank v. Radford, supra.
The bondholders in the case at bar are entitled to invoke the Fifth Amendment because an interference with
the taxing power of the district, or a discharge of the obligation of the district to levy and collect taxes to pay
the bonds, would deprive them of a part of their security.
Rorick v. Commissioners, Everglades Drainage District,
57 F. (2d) 1048; Los Angeles County v. Rockhold, 44

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U. S.

P. (2d) 340. See also Von Hoffman v. Quincy, supra.
Distinguishing: Continental Illinois Nat. Bank & Trust
Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 294 U. S. 648. Cf. In re
Tennessee Publishing Co., 81 F. (2d) 463.
The petition revealed that the pla'i of readjustment
was dependent upon a loan to the district by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, under conditions, imposed by § 36 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, and
by the loan contract, which invaded °1he exercise of governmental powers of the district.
Messrs. David M. Wood and W. F, Lewis for respondent.
The Act is a Bankruptcy Act. Continental Illinois
Nat. Bank & Trust Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.,
294 U. S. 648. It differs from the Act before this Court
in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S.
555, in that it is a composition Act.
The Act is a uniform law upon the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States.
There is nothing in the provisions of subdivision K of
the Act providing that the Act is inapplicable in any
State. That subdivision merely recognizes the fact that
the taxing districts, to which the Act is applicable, are
not free agents, and provides that in those States in
which there are state agencies authorized to exercise
supervision or control over the fiscal affairs of the taxing
districts, the petition may not be received by the District
Court, unless accompanied by the written approval of
such state agency. In short, the Act creates a special
class of petitioners and modifies slightly the procedure,
incident to the filing of a petition under the Act, in the
case of members of that class. It is intended merely to
prevent the filing of a petition in the District Court of
the United States by a petitioner which has not complied
with all the formalities required by the laws of the State
in which it is located to authorize it to do so.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

519

Argument for Respondent.

The uniformity required of a bankruptcy act, to conform to the Constitution of the United States, is geographic and not personal in the sense of being alike applicable to all members of the community. Hanover National Bank v. Moyses, 186 U. S. 181; Leidigh Carriage
Co. v. Stengel, 95 Fed. 637.
The power of Congress to classify persons who may
take advantage of bankruptcy acts is well settled.
The Act does not violate the Fifth Amendment.
The present Act is so dissimilar to the Frazier-Lemke
Act and so similar to § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act that
the decision in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v.
Radford, supra, is not applicable, and the case which is
in point is Continental Illinois Nat. Bank & Trust Co. v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., supra.
The Act does not invade the sovereignty of the States
in violation of the Tenth Amendment.
Public corporations, being unable to meet their obligations at maturity, found that their outstanding bonds,
notes and other evidences of indebtedness were held by
large numbers of persons. Almost invariably they were
unable to reach adjustments because of refusal by minority holders of the obligations. There was no law under which the minority could be bound by an agreement
entered into by the h .ders of the great majority in
amount of the outstanding obligations. The result was
that Congress was petitioned, not only by the municipalities but by creditor interests, to enact legislation under its bankruptcy powers, to substitute the democratic
principle of majority rule for the virtual anarchy which
then existed with reference to the adjustment of the
debts of insolvent municipal corporations and taxing
districts.
The Municipal Bankruptcy Act was enacted by Congress to meet this situation. There was no intention,
nor was it necessary, to extend the powers of the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U. S.

courts over the taxing districts. The powers of the federal courts with reference to the enforcement of the defaulted municipal obligations were deemed to be adequate.
For generations federal courts, including this Court,
have entertained suits for the enforcement of defaulted
obligations of cities, towns, counties, townships, school
districts, and other districts of every conceivable variety.
It has never been considered that these powers were invasions of the sovereignty of the States. In Lincoln
County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 5, it was contended that the
Eleventh Amendment prohibited suits against counties
in a federal court. That contention was expressly denied by this Court, and it has never been questioned
since that the Eleventh Amendment prohibits only
suits against the State itself.
The extension of the jurisdiction of the federal courts
by the Municipal Bankruptcy Act, therefore, was an extension of jurisdiction over creditors only. The court
was merely authorized to enter a decree, the effect of
which was to require minority creditors to accept a composition, agreed upon by the holders of the requisite majority in amount of the obligations affected by the plan.
So far as secured claims are concerned they could be
affected by the decree only when the holder was a member of a class, and then only when the composition was
desired by the requisite majority of the class and approved by the court. No power vested in the federal
court by this Act, which might be exercised against the
municipality or taxing district, can be pointed to which
the court did not possess prior to the enactment.
The Act merely gave municipalities and taxing districts the right to institute a proceeding in the federal
courts, which they did not theretofore possess. The proceeding must be instituted by the municipality itself.
We fail to see how the extension of a right, which may or

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST. 521
513

Argument for Respondent.

may not be availed of at the option of the municipality
or taxing district, can be construed as an invasion of the
sovereignty of the States.
The rights of the bondholders to compel the collection
of taxes by the muricipality issuing the bonds in order
to provide for their payment, are rights of private individuals, not the prerogatives of the sovereign. We admit
that the federal courts cannot interfere with the control
of the States over the fiscal affairs of their municipalities,
with this qualification,-that they may require such
municipalities to perform their contracts. No attempt is
made by this Act, however, to control the fiscal affairs
of the municipalities or taxing districts of the States.
Taxing districts, to which the Act is applicable, notwithstanding their public character, are corporations, entities distinct from the State. In their relations with
creditors they are treated by the courts for all practical
purposes as corporations. Broughton v. Pensacola, 93
U. S.266; Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S.514;
Mobile v. Watson, 116 U. S.289. The Act merely undertakes to permit these corporations to enter into composition agreements with the majority of their creditors
and to file a petition in the United States court praying
for a decree making that composition binding upon all
creditors.
The Act does not violate § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States, nor § 16 of Art. I of the
Constitution of Texas.
Subdivisions like this Water Improvement District
are not merely departments or branches of the state government; they are distinct entities; otherwise they
could not be sued without the State's consent. Petitioners seem to contend that the Act is inoperative without
concurrent legislation upon the part of the States expressly authorizing their municipalities and taxing districts to take advantage of it, and that such state legislation impairs the obligation of contracts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Amici Curiae.

298 U. S.

The argument that concurrent legislation on the part
of the States is necessary seems to proceed from the notion that the Act is an invasion of the sovereignty of the
States, and, therefore, the several States must affirmatively give their consent to its provisions before the Act
can be applicable to their municipalities. No other reason for the necessity for such concurrent legislation is
given or even hinted at in the petitioners' brief.
But even assuming such concurrent legislation were
necessary, such acts of the States consenting to the filing
of bankruptcy petitions by municipalities would not constitute acts in violation of the obligation of contract.
The right to file a petition in bankruptcy can only be
conferred by Congress. If there is any impairment of the
obligation of contracts, therefore, it is impairment by
Act of Congress, under the bankruptcy power, which is
constitutional.
The validity of the contract made between the District and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation cannot be attacked in this appeal.
By leave of Court, briefs of arnici curiae were filed as
follows:
Messrs. Stephen W. Downey, Harry W. Horton, and
George Herrington, on behalf of the Merced Irrigation
District of California, et al.; Mr. Charles D. Frierson, on
behalf of Drainage District No. 7, Poinsett County,
Arkansas; Messrs. R. L. Ward and Charles Claflin Allen,
Jr., on behalf of Drainage Districts Nos. 6 and 8, Pemisscot County, Missouri, et al.; Mr. C. F. Metteer, on behalf of Reclamation District No. 1,000, of California, et
al..; Mr. John D. McCall, as bond counsel for several
water improvement districts in Texas; Messrs. Harvey
Roney, George D. Beardsley, Harry L. Donnelly, and
Martin E. Lawson, on behalf of Birmingham Drainage
District, Clay County, Missouri; and Mr. George M.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

523

Opinion of the Court.

Corlett, on behalf of irrigation districts in Coloradoall in support of the validity of the Act.
Messrs. Herman Phleger and Maurice E. Harrison, and
Messrs. James N. Gillett, W. Coburn Cook, A. Heber
Winder, Henry W. Coil, Ross T. Hickcox, and Charles
L. Childers, on behalf of creditors of irrigation districts,
challenging the validity of the Act.
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. James B. Alley,
Max O'Rell Truitt, Hans A. Klagsbrunn, Warner Gardner, and William Radner, on behalf of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, a water improvement district embracing
43,000 acres in Cameron County, Texas, was organized in
1914 under the laws of that State. Claiming to be insolvent and unable to meet its debts as they matured, it
presented to the United States District Court, December
5, 1934, an Amended Petition with plan for adjusting its
obligations-$800,000 six percent bonds. This proposed
final settlement of these obligations through payment of
49.8 cents on the dollar out of funds to be borrowed from
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation at four percent.
The petition follows and seeks relief under the Act of
Congress approved May 24, 1934, c. 345, §§ 78, 79 and 80,
48 Stat. 798; Title 11 U. S. C., §§ 301, 302 and 303* It alleges that more than thirty percent of the bondholders
had accepted the plan and ultimately more than twothirds would do so. The prayer asks confirmation of the
proposal and that non-aEsenting bondholders be required
to accept it.
Owners of more than five percent of outstanding bonds
appeared, said there was no jurisdiction, denied the ex* Originally, this was limited to two years.

By Act approved April
10, 1936, it was extended to January 1, 1940, c. 186, 49 Stat. 1198.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

istence of insolvency, and asked that the petition be held
insufficient.
The trial court dismissed the petition for lack of jurisdiction. It heldThe petitioner is a mere agency or instrumentality of
the State, created for local exercise of her sovereign
power-reclamation of arid land through irrigation. It
owns no private property and carries on public business
only. The bonds are contracts of the State, executed
through this agency, and secured by taxes levied upon
local property. Congress lacks power to authorize a federal court to readjust obligations, as provided by the Act.
Also, the allegations of fact are insufficient.
The Circuit Court of Appeals took the cause, considered the points presented, and held that the allegations
were adequate to show jurisdiction and to warrant introduction of evidence. Also that Congress had exercised the power "To establish . . . uniform Laws on the

subject of Bankruptcies," granted by § 8, cl. 4, Art. 1
of the Constitution. Accordingly, it reversed the trial
court and remanded the cause.
The Act of May 24, 1934 amended the Bankruptcy
Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, by adding Chapter IX (three sections, 78, 79, 80), captioned "Provisions
for the Emergency Temporary Aid of Insolvent Public
Debtors and to Preserve the Assets thereof and for other
Related Purposes."
Section 78 asserts an emergency rendering imperative
further exercise of the bankruptcy powers. Section 79
directs that "in addition to the jurisdiction exercised in
voluntary and involuntary proceedings to adjudge persons bankrupt, courts of bankruptcy shall exercise original jurisdiction in proceedings for the relief of debtors,
as provided in this chapter."
Section 80-long and not free from ambiguities-in
twelve paragraphs (a to 1) prescribes the mode and con-

AS2HTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

525

Opinion of the Court.

ditions under which, when unable to pay its debts as
they mature, "any municipality or other political subdivision of any State, including . . . any county, city,
borough, village, parish, town, or township, unincorporated tax or special assessment district, and any school,
drainage, irrigation, reclamation, levee, sewer, or paving,
sanitary, port, improvement or other districts" may effect a readjustment. A brief outline of the salient provisions, with some quotations, will suffice for present
purposes.
The petition for relief must be filed in the District
Court and submit plan for readjustment approved by
creditors holding thirty percent of the obligations to be
affected; also complete list of creditors. If satisfied that
the petition is in good faith and follows the statute, the
judge shall enter an approving order; otherwise, it must
be dismissed. Creditors holding five percent of the indebtedness may appear in opposition.
"A plan of readjustment within the meaning of this
chapter (1) shall include provisions modifying or altering the rights of creditors generally, or of any class of
them, secured or unsecured either through the issuance
of new securities of any character or otherwise; and (2)
may contain such other provisions and agreements, not
inconsistent with this chapter, as the parties may desire."
Upon approval of the petition, creditors must be notified; if the plan is not seasonably accepted, extension may
be granted, etc.
Hearings must be accorded. The judge, with its approval, "may direct the rejection of contracts of the taxing district executory in whole or in part." He may require the district to open its books; allow reaspnable compensation; stay suits; enter an interlocutory decree declaring the plan temporarily operative, etc. "But [he]
shall not, by any order or decree, in the proceeding or
otherwise, interfere with any of the political or govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

mental powers of the taxing district, or any of the property or revenues of the taxing district necessary in the
opinion of the judge for essential governmental purposes,
or any income-producing property, unless the plan of readjustment so provides."
After hearing, the judge shall confirm the plan, if satisfied that it is fair, equitable, for the best interests of the
creditors, does not unduly discriminate, complies with the
statute, and has been accepted by those holding twothirds of the indebtedness. Also, that expenses incident
to the readjustment have been provided for, that both
plan and acceptance are in good faith and the district is
authorized by law to take all necessary action.
The provisions of the plan, after order of confirmation,
shall be binding upon the district and all creditors, secured or unsecured. Final decree shall discharge the district from all debts and liabilities dealt with by the plan,
except as otherwise provided.
"(k) Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit or impair the power of any State to
control, by legislation or otherwise, any political subdivision thereof in the exercise of its political or governmental
powers, including expenditures therefor, and including
the power to require the approval by any governmental agency of the State of the filing of any petition hereunder and of any plan of readjustment, and
whenever there shall exist or shall hereafter be created
under the law of any State any agency of such State authorized to exercise supervision or control over the fiscal
affairs of all or any political subdivisions thereof, and
whenever such agency has assumed such supervision or
control over any political subdivision, then no petition
of such political subdivision may be received hereunder
unless accompanied by the written approval of such
agency, and no plan of readjustment 'shall be put into
temporary effect or finally confirmed without the written
approval of such agency of such plans."

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST. 527
513

Opinion of the Court.

We need not consider this Act in detail or undertake
definitely to classify it. The evident intent was to authorize a federal court to require objecting creditors to
accept an offer by a public corporation to compromise,
scale down, or repudiate its indebtedness without the
surrender of any property whatsoever. The Act has been
assailed upon the ground that it is not in any proper sense
a law on the subject of bankruptcies and therefore is
beyond the power of Congress; also because it conflicts
with the Fifth Amendment. Passing these, and other
objections, we assume for this discussion that the enactment is adequately related to the general "subj t of
bankruptcies." See Hanover National Bank v. Moyses,
186 U. S. 181; ContinentalIllinois N. B. & T. Co. v. C.,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648; Louisville Joint Stock
Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555.
The respondent was organized in 1914 as Cameron
County Irrigation District No. One, to furnish water for
irrigation and domestic uses; in 1919, it became the
Cameron County Water Improvement District No. One,
all as authorized by statutes passed under § 52, Art. 3,
Constitution of Texas, which permits creation of political
divisions of the State, with power to sue and be sued,
issue bonds, levy and collect taxes. An amendment to
the Constitution-§ 59a, Art. 16-- (Qctober 2, 1917) declares the conservation and development of all the natural resources of the State, including reclamation of lands
and their preservation, are "public rights and duties."
Most of the bonds now in question were issued during
1914; the remainder in 1919.
By Act approved April 27, 1935, the Texas Legislature
declared that municipalities, political subdivisions, taxing
districts, &c., might proceed under the Act of Congress
approved May 24, 1934.
It is plain enough that respondent is a political subdivision of the State, created for the local exercise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

her sovereign powers, and that the right to borrow money
is essential to its operations. Houck v. Little River
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 261-262; Perry v.
United States, 294 U. S. 330. Its fiscal affairs are those
of the State, not subject to control or interference by the
National Government, unless the right so to do is definitely accorded by the Federal Constitution.
The pertinent doctrine, now firmly established, was
stated through Mr. Chief Justice Chase in Texas v.
White, 7 Wall. 700, 725."We have already had occasion to remark at this term,
that 'the people of each State compose a State, having its
own government, and endowed with all the functions essential to separate and independent existence,' and that
'without the States in union, there could be no such
political body as the United States.' Not only, therefore,
can there be no loss of separate and independent autonomy to the States, through their union under the Constitution, but it may be not unreasonably said that the
preservation of the States, and the maintenance of their
governments, are as much within the design and care of
the Constitution as the preservation of the Union and the
maintenance of the National government. The Constitution, in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible
Union, composed of indestructible States."
Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 125, 126"Such being the separate and independent condition
of the States in our complex system, as recognized by
the Constitution, and the existence of which is so indispensable, that, without them, the general government
itself would disappear from the family of nations, it
would seem to follow, as a reasonable, if not a necessary
consequence, that the means and instrumentalities employed for carrying on the operations of their governments, for preserving their existence, and fulfilling the
high and responsible duties assigned to them in the Con-

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.

529

Opinion of the Court.

513

stitution, should be left free and unimpaired; should not
be liable to be crippled, much less defeated by the taxing
power of another government, which power acknowledges
no limits but the will of the legislative body imposing the
tax. And, more especially, those means and instrumentalities which are the creation .of their sovereign and
reserved rights, one of which is the- establishment of the
judicial department, and the appointment of officers to
administer their laws. Without this power, and the exercise of it, we risk nothing in saying that no one of the
States under the form of government guaranteed by the
Constitution could long preserve its existence."
In Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
570, 575, et seq., relevant cases are collected and the following conclusion announced"This principle is implied from the independence of the
national and state governments within their respective
spheres and from the provisions of the Constitution
which look to the maintenance of the dual system."
Notwithstanding the broad grant of power "to lay and
collect taxes," opinions here plainly show that Congress
could not levy any tax on the bonds issued by the respondent or upon income derived therefrom. So to do
would be an unwarranted interference with fiscal matters of the State-essentials to her existence. Many
opinions explain and support this view. In United States
v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, 329, this court said"A municipal corporation like the city of Baltimore is
a representative not only of the State, but is a portion of
its governmental power. It is one of its creatures, made
for a specific purpose, to exercise within a limited sphere
the powers of the State. The State may withdraw these
local powers of government at pleasure and may, through
its legislature or other appointed channels, govern the
local territory as it governs the State at large. It may
enlarge or contract its powers or destroy its existence. As
65773-36-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

a portion of the State in the exercise of a limited portion
of the powers of the State, its revenues, like those of the
State, are not subject to taxation."
See also Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.
429, 586; 158 U. S.601, 630.
The power "To establish . . .uniform Laws on the
subject of Bankruptcies" can have no higher rank or importance in our scheme of government than the power
"to lay and collect taxes." Both are granted by the same
section of the Constitution, and we find no reason for
saying that one is impliedly limited by the necessity of
preserving independence of the States, while the other is
not. Accordingly, as application of the statutory provisions now before us might materially restrict respondent's control over its fiscal affairs, the trial court rightly
declared them invalid.
If federal bankruptcy laws can be extended to respondent, why not to the State? If voluntary proceedings may
be permitted, so may involuntary ones, subject of course
to any inhibition of the Eleventh Amendment. In re
Quarles, 158 U. S.532, 535. If the State were proceeding under a statute like the present one, with terms broad.
enough to include her, apparently the problem would not
be materially different. Our special concern is with the
existence of the power claimed-not merely the immediate outcome of what has already been attempted. And
it is of the first importance that due attention be given to
the results which might be brought about by the exercise of such a power in the future.
The especial purpose of all bankruptcy legislation is
to interfere with the relations between the parties concerned-to change, modify or impair the obligation of
their contracts. The statute before us expresses this design in plain terms. It undertakes to extend the supposed power of the Federal Government incident to
bankruptcy over any embarrassed district which may ap-

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

531

Opinion of the Court.

ply to the court. See Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.
330, 353.
If obligations of States or their political subdivisions
may be subjected to the interference here attempted,
they are no longer free to manage their own affairs; the
will of Congress prevails over them; although inhibited,
the right to tax might be less sinister. And really the
sovereignty of the State, so often declared necessary to
the federal system, does not exist. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 430. Farmers & Mechanics Bank v.
Minnesota, 232 U. S.516, 526.
The Constitution was careful to provide that "No State
shall pass any Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts." This she may notdo under the form of a bankruptcy act or otherwise. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4
Wheat. 122, 191. Nor do we think she can accomplish
the same end by granting any permission necessary to
enable Congress so to do.
Neither consent nor submission by the States can enlarge the powers of Congress; none can exist except those
which are granted. United States v. Butler, decided January 6, 1936, 297 U. S. 1. The sovereignty of the State
essential to its proper functioning under the Federal Constitution cannot be surrendered; it cannot be taken away
by any form of legislation. See United States v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287.
Like any sovereignty, a State may voluntarily consent
to be sued; may permit actions against her political subdivisions to enforce their obligations. Such proceedings
against these subdivisions have often been entertained in
federal courts. But nothing in this tends to support the
view that the Federal Government, acting under the
bankruptcy clause, may impose its will and impair state
powers-pass laws inconsistent with the idea of sovereignty.
The power to regulate commerce is necessarily exclusive in certain fields and, to be successful,_ must prevail

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARwozo, J.,

dissenting.

298 U. S.

over obstructive regulations by the State. But, as
pointed out in Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. v. United States,
234 U. S. 342, 353, "This is not to say that Congress
possesses the authority to regulate the internal commerce of a state, as such, but that it does possess the
power to foster and protect interstate commerce." No
similar situation is before us.
The difficulties arising out of our dual form of government, and the opportunities for differing opinions concerning the relative rights of State and National Governments are many; but for a very long time this court has
steadfastly adhered to the doctrine that the taxing power
of Congress does not extend to the States or their political
subdivisions. The same basic reasoning which leads to
that conclusion, we think, requires like limitation upon
the power which springs from the bankruptcy clause.
United States v. Butler, supra.
The challenge to the validity of the statute must be
sustained. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed. The cause will be returned to the
District Court for further action, consistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, dissenting.
The question is a narrow one: Is there power in the
Congress under the Constitution of the United States to
permit local governmental units generally, and irrigation
or water improvement districts in particular, to become
voluntary bankrupts with the consent of their respective
states?
: Cameron County Water Improvement District Number
One is a public corporation created by the laws of Texas.
It has issued bonds for the construction of a canal system,
which bonds are outstanding in the amount of $802,000.
Default has been suffered to the extent of $147,000, either

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

533

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

for principal or for interest, upon its obligations now matured. But its own indebtedness is only a part of the
financial burden that oppresses it. The bonded debt of
other municipalities is a superior lien upon the property
in the District for $10,386,000, and accumulated interest.
The population is mainly agricultural. The farmers have
been unable by reason of the great depression to make a
living from their farms, and unable to pay their taxes in
appreciable amounts. The District has made diligent effort to enforce collections, but without success. When
it has attempted to foreclose its liens, it has been compelled for lack of bidders to buy the lands in and pay
the court costs. After buying the lands in, it has been
unable to get rid of them, for they have been subject to
other tax liens prior to its own. The defaults are steadily
mounting. For the year 1932, they were 63%; for the
year 1933, 88.9%o. The average market value of lands in
the District does not exceed $75 per acre; and the total
bonded debt per acre, principal and interest, is approximately $100. In these circumstances little good can
come of levying more taxes to pyramid the existing structure. The remedies of bondholders are nominal, not real.
What is true of Cameron County Water Improvement
District Number One is true in essentials of thousands of
other public corporations in widely scattered areas. The
hearings by committees of the Congress before the passage of the statute exhibit in vivid fashion the breadth
and depth of the mischief which the statute was designed
to remedy.1 In January, 1934, 2019 municipalities, counties and other governmental units were known to be in
default.' On the "list, which was incomplete, were large
'See Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
the Judiciary on S. 1868 and H. R. 5950, 1934, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess.;
Hearings before the House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R.
1670, etc., 1933, 73rd Cong., 1st Sess.
'See Senate Committee Hearings, supra, at p. 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARuozo, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

cities as well as tiny districts. Many regions were included: 41 out of 48 states. Students of government have
estimated that on January 1, 1933, out of securities to the
exteint of $14,000,000,000 issued by units smaller than the
states, a billion were in default,' The plight of the debtors *as bad enough; that of the creditors was even worse.
It is possible that in some instances the bonds did not
charge the municipalities or other units with personal
liability. Even when they did, however, execution could
not issue against the property of the debtor held for pub-.
lic uses,4 and few of the debtors were the owners of anything else. In such circumstances the only remedy was
a mandamus whereby the debtor was commanded to tax
and tax again. Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Meriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472,, 501.1 The command
was mere futility when tax values were exhausted. Often
the holders of the bonds to the extent of ninety per cent
or more were ready to scale down the obligations and
put the debtor on its feet. A recalcitrant minority had
capacity to block the plan. Nor was there hope for relief from statutes to be enacted by the states. The Constitution prohibits the states from passing any law that
will impair the obligation of existing contracts, and a state
insolvency act is of no avail as to obligations of the
debtor incurred before its passage. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122. Relief must come from Congress
if it is to come from any one.
The next step in the inquiry has to do with the power
of the Congress to eradicate the mischief. Is the Act in
question, adopted May 24, 1934, to continue for two years
(§§ 78, 79 and 80 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, as
amended by 48 Stat. 798; 11 U. S. C. §§ 301, 302, 303),
' See the statistics gathered in 46 Harvard Law Review 1317.
'For a collection of the cases, see 3 McQuillin, Municipal Corporations, 2nd ed, § 1262.
'The cases are collected in 33 Columbia Law Review 28, 44.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

535

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

and now extended to January 1, 1940 (April 10, 1936, c.
186, 49 Stat. 1198), a law "on the subject of Bankruptcies"
within Article I, Section VIII, Clause 4 of the Constitution of the United States? Recent opinions of this
court have traced the origin and growth of the bankruptcy power. Continental Illinois National Bank v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S.648, 668; Louisville
Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S.555, 588.
The history is one of an expanding concept. It is, however, an expanding concept that has had to fight its way.
Hanover National Bank v. Moyses, 186 U. S. 181, 184;
Charles Warren, Bankruptcy in United States History
(1935), p. 9. Almost every change has been hotly denounced in its beginnings as a usurpation of power.
Only time or judicial decision has had capacity to silence
opposition. At. the adoption of the Constitution the
English and Colonial bankruptcy laws were limited to
traders and to involuntary proceedings. An Act of Congress passed in 1800 added bankers, brokers, factors and
underwriters. Doubt was expressed as to the validity
of the extension (Adams v. Storey, 1 Paine 79, 82), which
established itself, however, with the passing of the years.
Hanover National Bank v. Moyses, supra. Other classes
were brought in later, through the bankruptcy Act of
1841 and its successors, "until now practically all classes
of persons and corporations are included." Continental
Illinois National Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
supra, at p. 670. For nearly a century, voluntary proceedings have been permitted at the instance of the
debtor as well as involutitary proceedings on the petition
of creditors. The amendment, however, was resisted.
The debates in Congress bear witness to the intensity of
the feeling aroused by its proposal. Warren, op. cit.
supra, at p. 72 et seq. For more than sixty years, the
debtor has been able to compel a minority of his creditors to accept a composition if the terms have been approved by a designated majority as well as by the judge.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 193 .
CARnozo, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

This change like the others had to meet a storm of criticism in Congress and the courts. Warren, op. cit. supra,
at pp. 44, 45, 118-120; In re Klein, reported in a note
to Nelson v. Carland, 1 How. 265, 277; Louiiville Joint
Stock Land Bank v. Radford, supra. Since the enactment of § 77 in March, 1933 (47 Stat. 1474; 11 U. S. C.
§ 205), a court of bankruptcy has been empowered to reorganize railroad corporations unable to pay their debts
as they mature (Continental Illinois National Bank v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry Co., supra), and since the enactment of § 77 B in June, 1934 (48 Stat. 912; 11 U. S. C.
§ 207), a like jurisdiction has existed in respect of business qorporations generally. The Act for the relief of
local governmental units is a stage in an evolutionary
process .which is likely to be misconceived unless regarded
as a whole."
Throughout that evolutionary process, the court has
hewn a straight path.7 Disclaiming a willingness to bind
' Warren, Bankruptcy in United States History (1935), p. 9: "The
trail [of the bankruptcy clause] is strewn with a host of unsuccessful
objections based on constitutional grounds against the enactment of
various provisions, all of which are now regarded as perfectly orthodox features of a bankruptcy law. Thus, it was at first contended
that, constitutionally, such a law must be confined to the lines of the
English statute; next, that it could not discharge prior contracts;
next, that a purely voluntary law would be non-uniform and therelore unconstitutional; next, that any voluntary bankruptcy was unconstitutional; next, that there could be no discharge of debts of any
class except traders; next, that a bankruptcy law could not apply to
corporations; next, that allowance of State exemptions of property
would make a bankruptcy law non-uniform; next, that any composition was unconstitutional; next, that there could be no composition
without an adjudication in bankruptcy; next, that there could be no
sale of mortgaged property free from the mortgage. All these objections, so hotly and frequently asserted from period to period, were
overcome either by public opinion or by the Court."
'The Emergency Farm Mortgage Act of 1933 was condemned in
Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, suvra, because destructive of rights of property protected by the Fifth Amendment.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

537

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

itself by a cramping definition, it has been able none the
less to indicate with clearness the main lines of its approach. In substance, it agrees with Cowen, J., who
wrote: "I read the constitution thus: 'Congress shall have
power to establish uniform laws on the subject of any
person's general inability to pay his debts throughout the
United States'" (Kunzler v. Kohaus, 5 Hill 317, 321),
and with Blatchford, J., writing in the Matter of Reiman,
Fed. Cas. No. 11,673, p. 496, that the subject of bankruptcy cannot properly be defined as "anything less than
the subject of the relations between an insolvent or nonpaying . . . debtor, and his creditors, extending to his
and their relief." See Hanover National Bank v. Moyses
supra; Continental Illinois National Bank v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co,., supra; Louisville Joint Stock Land
Bank v. Radford, supra. Such was Story's view also. "A
law on the subject of bankruptcies in the sense of the
Constitution is a law making provision for persons failing
to pay their debts." Story, Commentaries on the Constitution, § 1113, n. 3; cf. Warren, op. cit. supra, at p. 68.
It is not necessary that the debtor have any property to
surrender. One may resort to a court of bankruptcy
though one has used up all one's property or though
what is left is exempt. Vulcan Sheet Metal Co. v. North
Platte Valley Irrigation Co., 220 Fed. 106, 108; In re
Hirsch, 97 Fed. 571, 573; In re J. M. Ceballos & Co., 1.61
Fed. 445, 450. It is enough that in an omnibus proceeding between a nonpaying debtor on the one side and the
creditors un the other, the debtor-creditor relation is to
be readjusted or extinguished. Cf. Warren, op. cit. supra,
at pp. 8, 144.
Cameron Water Improvement District Number One
has no assets to surrender. If it shall turn out hereafter
that there are any not exempt, the creditors may have
them. Cameron Water Improvement District Number
One is a debtor in an amount beyond its capacity for

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

payment, and has creditors, the holders of its bonds, who
are persuaded that a reduction of the debt will redound
to their advantage. Thirty per cent of the creditors had
signified their approval of a proposed plan of composition before the filing of the petition, and 662/3 per cent
must give approval before the judge can act.' Even
then the plan will count for nothing unless the judge
upon inquiry shall hold it fair and good. A situation
such as this would call very clearly for the exercise by a
court of bankruptcy of its distinctive jurisdiction if the
debtor were a natural person or a private corporation.
Is there anything in the position of a governmental unit
that exacts a different conclusion?
The question is not here whether the statute would
be valid if it made provision for involuntary bankruptcy, dispensing with the consent of the state and with
that of the bankrupt subdivision. For present purposes
one may assume that there would be in such conditions a
dislocation of that balance between the powers of the
states and the powers of the central government which
is essential to our federal system. Cf. Hopkins Federal
Savings & Loan Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315; United
States v. California, 297 U. S. 175. To read into the
bankruptcy clause an exception or proviso to the effect
that there shall be no disturbance of the federal framework by any bankruptcy proceeding is to do no more than
has been done already with reference to the power of taxation by decisions known of all men. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. The statute now in question
doas not dislocate the balance. It has been framed with
sedulous regard to the structure of the federal system.
The governmental units of the state may not act under
this statute except through the medium of a voluntary
'For taxing districts other than drainage, irrigation, reclamation
and levee districts, the requisite percentages are 51% and 75%
respectively.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

539

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

petition which will evince their own consent, their own
submission to the judicial power. Even that, however, is
not enough. By subdivision (k), which is quoted in the
margin,9 the petition must be accompanied by the written approval of the state, whenever such consent is necessary by virtue of the local law. There is still another
safeguard. By subdivision (e) (6), the composition,
though approved by the requisite majority, shall not be
confirmed by the judge unless he is satisfied that "the
taxing district is authorized by law, upon confirmation of
the plan, to take all action necessary to carry out the
plan." To cap the protective structure, Texas has a
statute whereby all municipalities, political subdivisions
and taxing districts in the state are empowered to proceed under the challenged Act of Congress, and to do anything appropriate to take advantage of its provisions.
This statute became a law on April 27, 1935 (Texas,
Laws 1935, c. 107), after the dismissal of the proceeding in the District Court, but before the reversal of that
decision by the Court of Appeals. Being law at that time
it was to be considered and applied. United States v.
The Peggy, 1 Cranch 103, 110; Danforth v. Groton Water
'(k) Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
limit or impair the power of any State to control, by legislation or
otherwise, any political subdivision thereof in the exercise of its
political or governmental powers, including expenditures therefor,
and including the power to require the approval by any governmental
agency of the State of the filing of any petition hereunder and of any
plan of readjustment, and whenever there ,hall exist or shall hereafter be created under the law of any State any agency of such State
authorized to exercise supervision or control over the fiscal affairs of
all or any political subdivisions thereof, and whenever such agency
has assumed such supervision or control over any political subdivision, then no petition of such political subdivision may be received
hereunder unless accompanied by the written approval of such
agency, and no plan of readjustment shall be put into temporary
effect or finally confirmed without the written approval of such
agency of such plans."

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
C ADozo, J., dissenting.

298 U. S.

Co., 178 Mass. 472, 475, 476; 59 N. E. 1033; Robinson
v. Robins Dry Dock d Repair Co., 238 N. Y. 271, 281;
144 N. E. 579. There are like statutes in other states.
Arizona, Laws 1935, c. 17; California, Laws (Extra Session) 1934, c. 4; Florida, Laws 1933, c. 15878; Ohio, Laws
(2nd Special Session) 1934, No. 77. In Texas, at all
events, it is clear to the point of demonstration, that the
filing of a voluntary petition by a political subdivision
does not violate the local law or any local public policy.
Petitioners are not the champions of any rights except
their own. Premier-Pabst Sales Co. v. Grosscup, ante,
p. 226; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S.152, 160, 161.
To overcome an Act of Congress invalidity must be
proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Ogden v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 213, 270; Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700,
718. Sufficient reasons do not appear for excluding political subdivisions from the bankruptcy jurisdiction if the
jurisdiction is so exerted as to maintain the equilibrium
between state and national power. Persuasive analogies
tell us that consent will preserve a balance threatened
with derangement. A state may not tax the instrumentalities of the central government. It may do so, however, if the central government consents. Baltimore National Bank v. State Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 209.
Reciprocally, the central government, consent being
given, may lay a tax upon the states. Cf. United States
v. California,supra. So also, interference by a state with
interstate or foreign commerce may be lawful or unlawful as consent is granted or withheld. In re Rahrer, 140
U. S.545; Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry.
Co., 242 U. S. 311; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431.
The prevailing opinion tells us in summing up its conclusions that the bankruptcy power and the taxing power
are subject to like limitations when the interests of a state
are affected by their action. Let that test be applied, and
the Act must be upheld, for jurisdiction is withdrawn if
the state does not approve.

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

541

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

Reasons of practical convenience conspire to the same
conclusion. If voluntary bankruptcies are anathema for
governmental units, municipalities and creditors have
been caught in a vise from which it -is impossible to let
them out. Experience makes it certain that generally
there will be at least a small minority of creditors who
will resist a composition, however fair and reasonable, if
the law does not subject them to a pressure to obey the
general will. This is the impasse from which the statute
gives relief. "The controlling purpose of the bill is to
provide a forum where distressed cities, counties and
minor political subdivisions, designated in the bill as
'taxing districts,' of their own volition, free from all coercion, may meet with their creditors under the necessary
judicial control and assistance in an effort to effect an adjustment of their financial matters upon a plan deemed
mutually advantageous. If a plan is agreed upon by the
taxing district and its creditors holding two-thirds [in
some instances three-fourths] in amount of the claims
of each class of indebtedness, and if the court is satisfied
that the plan is workable and equitable, it may confirm
the plan, and the minority creditors are bound thereby."
Report No. 207, House Judiciary Committee, June 7,
1933. To hold that this purpose must be thwarted by
the courts because of a supposed affront to the dignity of
a state, though the state disclaims the affront and is
doing all it can to keep the law alive, is to make dignity
a doubtful blessing. Not by arguments so divorced from
the realities of life has the bankruptcy power been
brought to the present state of its development during
the century and a half of our national existence.
- The Act does not authorize the states to impair through
their own laws the obligation of existing contracts. Any
interference by the states is remote and indirect. Cf. In
re Imperial IrrigationDistrict, 10 F. Supp..832, 841. At
most what they do is to waive a personal privilege that

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

298 U.S.

they would be at liberty to claim. Cf. Gunter v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co., 200 U. S.273, 284. If contracts are
impaired, the tie is cut or loosened through the action of
the court of bankruptcy approving a plan of composition
under the authority of federal law. There, and not beyond in an ascending train of antecedents, is the cause
of the impairment to which the law will have regard.
Cf. Howard Fire Insurance Co. v. Norwich & New York
TransportationCo., 12 Wall. 194, 199; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S. 531, 533. Impairment by the central government through laws concerning bankruptcies is not forbidden by the Constitution.
Impairment is not forbidden unless effected by the states
themselves. No change in obligation results from the
filing of a petition by one seeking a discharge, whether a
public or a private corporation invokes the jurisdiction.
The court, not the petitioner, is the efficient cause of the
release.
The Act is not lacking in uniformity because applicable only to such public corporations as have the requisite capacity under the law of the place of their creation.
Hanover National Bank. v. Moyses, supra, at p. 190.
Stellwagen v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605, 613. Capacity existing, the rule is uniform for all. Ibid.
No question is before us now, and no opinion is intimated, as to the power of Congress to enlarge the privilege of bankruptcy by extending it to the states as well
as to the local units. Even if the power exists, there
has been no attempt to exercise it. There is room at
ileast for argument that within the meaning of the Constitution the bankruptcy concept does not embrace the
states themselves. In the public law of the United States
a state is a sovereign or at least a quasi-sovereign. Not
so, a local governmental unit, though the state may have
invested it with governnfental power. Such a governmental unit may be brought into court against its will

ASHTON v. CAMERON COUNTY DIST.
513

CARDOZO,

543

J., dissenting.

without violating the Eleventh Amendment.- Lincoln
County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636, 645. It .may be subjected to mandamus or to equitable remedies. See, e. g., Norris v. Montezuma Valley Irrigation District, 248 Fed. 369, 372;
Tyler County v. Town, 23 F. (2d) 371, 373. "Neither
public dorporations nor political subdivisions are clothed
with that immunity from suit which belongs to the State
alone by virtu6 of its sovereignty." Hopkins v. Clemson
College, supra.
No question as to the merits of any plan of composition is before us at this time. Abrams v. Van Schaick,
293 U. S. 188. Attention, however, may be directed to
the fact that by the terms of the statute, subdivision c
(11), the judge "shall not, by any order or decree, in the
proceeding or otherwise, interfere with (a) any of the
political or governmqntal powers of the taxing district,
or (b) any of the property or revenues of the taxing district necessary in the opinion of the judge for essential
governmental purposes, otr (c) any income-producing
property, unless the plan of readjustment so provides,"
and that "the taxing district shall be heard on all questions." These restrictions upon remedies do not take
from the statute its quality as one affecting the "aubject
of Bankruptcies," which, as already pointed out, includes
a readjustment of the terms of the debtor-creditor relation, though there are no assets to be distributed. On
the other hand, the restrictions are important as indicating the care with which the governmental, powers of the
state and its subdivisions are maintained inviolate.
The statute is constitutional, and the decree should be
affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

JUSTICE STONE

join in this opinion.

and MR.

