WYOMING v. COLORADO.

573

Syllabus.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
BILL IN EQUITY.

No. 10, original.

Argued February 11, 12, 1936.-Decided June 1,
1936.

1. Under the decree of this Court in Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419; 260 U. S. 1, the claims of Colorado therein recognized and -confirmed are the only ones in virtue of which diversion of water may lawfully be made in Colorado from the Laramie
River and its tributaries, as against Wyoming and her appropriators. P. 579.
2. The decree in the former suit (260 U. S. 1) recognized and confirmed an appropriation "enabling the State of Colorado, or
anyone recognized by her as duly entitled thereto," to divert and
take from the headwaters of Deadman Creek, a tributary of the
Laramie, "the relatively small amount of water appropriated
therefrom prior to the year 1902 by and through what is designated in the evidence as the Wilson Supply Ditch." The record
in that suit shows that the appropriation is of 2000 acre feet per
annum. Held,
(1) That the decree is to be taken as though the amount,
2000 acre feet, were writtei into it. P. 580.
(2) Wyoming is bound by the former finding and adjudication.
Id.
(3) The evidence in the present case shows that diversions from
the headwaters of Deadman Creek through the Wilson Supply
Ditch have not exceeded 2000 acre feet per annum. Id.
3. The former decree, in confirming the right of Colorado "to divert
and take" from the Laramie River and its tributaries a stated
number of acre feet of water per annum in virtue of certain
meadow land appropriations, refers to the water taken from the
stream at point of diversion, and was violated by diverting and
applying to the meadows much larger quantities under the claim
that the greater part would return to the stream through surface
drainage and percolation and that the amount actually consumed
would not exceed the amount fixed in the decree. P. 581.
4. In both Colorado and Wyoming, water rights acquired by appropriation are transferable, in whole or in part, either permanently
or temporarily; and the use of the water may be changed from
the irrigation of one tract to the irrigation of another, if the
change does not injure other appropriators. The rules in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

298 U. S.

regard are but incidental to the doctrine of appropriation, which
prevails in both States. P. 584.
5. It was not the purpose of the earlier suit between Wyoming and
Colorado, or of the decree therein, to withdraw the water claims
confirmed by the decree from the operation of local laws relating
to their transfer, or to restrict their utilization in ways not
affecting the rights of one State and her claimants as against
the other State and her claimants. P. 584.
6. The decree in the earlier suit confirmed the right of the State
of Colorado, or of any one recognized by her as duly entitled
thereto, to divert and take in Colorado from the Laramie River
and tributaries the water included in designated appropriations,
for use in another watershed. By agreement of the owners and
with the consent of Colorado, part of the water accredited by the
decree to some of these appropriations was diverted and conveyed
by tfie ditch appertaining to another of them, in addition to its
own proper supply; but all the ditches together diverted and took
no more than the aggregate of their several appropriations as
severally confirmed by the decree. Held that the decree was not
violated. Pp. 582-585.
7. Wyoming is granted leave to apply later on for an appropriate
order respecting the measurement and recording of all diversions
in Colorado of water from the Laramie and its tributaries if the
two States cannot agree and there is need for action by this
Court. Jurisdiction is retained accordingly. P. 585.

ON FINAL HEARING of a suit brought in this Court by
Wyoming charging Colorado and her water claimants
with departures from the decree by which this Court, in
an earlier suit, adjudicated the relative rights of the two
States and their respective citizens to use the waters of
the Laramie River and its tributaries. See 259 U. S.
419; 260 U. S. 1. An earlier phase of the present case
was reported in 286 U. S.494. By the decision now reported, the prayer of Wyoming for injunctive relief is
granted in part and in part denied. Jurisdictimi is retained in part, as indicated in the concluding paragraph
of the syllabus.
Mr. Ray E. Lee, Attorney General of Wyoming, and

Mr. James A. Greenwood, with whom Mr. Win. C.Snow
was on the brief, for plaintiff.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Shrader P. Howell, William R. Kelly, and C. D.
Todd, with whom Mr. Paul P. Prosser, Attorney General
of Colorado, and Messrs. Lawrence R. Temple and William A. Bryans, III, were on the brief, for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By this suit the State of Wyoming complains of the
State of Colorado and asserts that the latter and her
water claimants have been and are departing from a decree rendered by this Court in an earlier suit between
these States (259 U. S. 419, 496; 260 U. S. 1), and that
the asserted departures have been and are working material injury to Wyoming and her water claimants. The
principal relief sought is an injunction enforcing adherence to that decree.
The earlier suit and decree dealt with the relative
rights of the two States and their respective water claimants to divert and use for irrigation the waters of the
Laramie River, an innavigable stream which has its
source in the mountains of northern Colorado, flows
northerly 27 miles in that State, crosses into Wyoming,
and there flows northeasterly 150 miles to the North
Platte River, of which it is an affluent. That suit was
largely provoked by a proposed and threatened diversion
in Colorado (called the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel Project)
of 50,000 acre feet or more from the Laramie River, which
Wyoming alleged would not leave in the river sufficient
water to satisfy older appropriations in that State.
Shortly after the present suit was begun the complainant's right to relief was challenged by a motion to
dismiss, one ground of which was that the suit proceeds
on the erroneous assumption that the earlier decree determined, as against Colorado and her water claimants,
the full quantity of water which rightly may be diverted

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

within that Sate from the stream, and likewise the quantity which Wyoming and her water claimants are entitled to receive and use within her borders. The motion
was overruled (286 U. S. 494), the scope of the ruling and
the reasons for it being shown in the following excerpts
from the opinion then delivered.
"We are of opinion that the record, opinion and decree in the prior suit, here reviewed at length, show very
plainly that the decree must be taken as determining the
relative rights of the two States, including their respective citizens, to divert and use the waters of the Laramie
and its tributaries. These rights were put in issue by the
pleadings, displayed in the evidence, and considered and
resolved in the opinion. Not only so, but the question
of priority in time and right as between the appropriations in Colorado and those in Wyoming was directly presented by the pleadings and evidence and distinctly dealt
with and resolved in the opinion.
"As appears from the opinion, the Court held that the
doctrine, long recognized and enforced in both States,
whereby priority of appropriation gives superiority of
right, furnished the only equitable and right basis o n
which to determine the controversy between them shown
in the pleadings and evidence.
"And as further appears from the opinion, the Court
made specific findings showing the amount of water in
the available supply, its insufficiency to satisfy all asserted appropriations, the date when the proposed tunnel appropriation in Colorado was initiated, the names
and amounts of the appropriations in Colorado which
were senior to that appropriation, the amount of water
included in the Wyoming appropriations which were
senior to it, and the amount which would remain in the
supply and be subject to that appropriation after deducting what was required to satisfy the senior appropriations
in both States.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

"These findings were pertinent to the issues, and upon
them the Court pronounced its decree. Under a familiar
rule the facts thus determined are not open to dispute
in a subsequent suit between the same States."
And again:
"Construing the decree in the light of the record and
opinion, to which counsel for both States appeal, we
think it was intended to and does define and limit the
quantity of water which Colorado and her appropriators
may divert from the interstate stream and its tributaries
and thus withhold from Wyoming and her appropriators.
."But it is said that water claims other than the tunnel appropriation could not be, and were not, affected
by the decree, because the claimants were not parties to
the suit or represented therein. In this the nature of the
suit is misconceived. It was one between States, each
acting as a quasi-sovereign and representative of the interests and rights of her people in a controversy with the
other ... the water claimants in Colorado, and those in
Wyoming, were represented by their respective States
and are bound by the decree."
The earlier decree, so construed, confirms and establishes "the right of the State of Colorado, or of any one
recognized by her as duly entitled thereto," to divert and
take within that State:
(1) 18,000 acre feet of water per annum from the Laramie River and its tributaries in virtue of the Skyline
Ditch appropriation;
(2) 4,250 acre feet of water per annum from such
stream and its tributaries in virtue of certain meadowland
appropriations;
(3) The relatively small amount of water appropriated
prior to 1902 from the headwaters of Deadman Creek, a
tributary of the Laramie River, through the Wilson Supply Ditch;
65773' -36------37

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

(4) 15,500 acre feet of water per annum from the Laramie River and its tributaries, in virtue of the Laramie.Poudre Tunnel appropriation;
and that decree also confirms and establishes the right of
the State of Wyoming and her water claimants to receive
and divert within that State the remaining waters of the
stream and its tributaries in virtue of appropriations
prior in time and right to the tunnel appropriation in
Colorado. A further provision in the decree enjoins the
defendant State from diverting or taking from the river
and its tributaries in virtue of the tunnel appropriation
any water in excess of the confirmed right to 15,500 acre
feet per annum, the reason for limiting the injunction to
that appropriation being that there was no showing of an
exigency requiring that it be broader.
In this view of the earlier suit and decree, we further
held, in overruling the motion to dismiss the present suit,
that the bill contains allegations of such material departures by Colorado and her water claimants from the
earlier decree that she should be called upon to answer.
Colorado did answer; evidence was than taken and reported by commissioners; and the cause has since been
submitted on briefs and oral argument.
The departures from the decree which are charged
against Colorado in the bill are of two classes-one comprising diversions under claims not confirmed or recognized in the decree, and the other consisting of diversions
under each of the confirmed Colorado claims of more
water than the decree accredits to the claim. in the answer Colorado denies that certain of the diversions have
been excessive or otherwise contrary to the decree, and
admits that other designated diversions have not been in
accord with the decree as construed in our opinion overruling the motion to dismiss, but asserts that they have
been made in good faith and in accord with what the
State's officers have understood the decree to be.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

One complaint is of diversions through what are described in the bill and answer as Bob Creek ditch, Bob
Creek extension ditch, Columbine ditch, and Lost Lake
Reservoir system. These diversions are admitted in the
answer. They are made, not under claims recognized or
confirmed in the decree, but quite independently of it.
Under the decree, as is pointed out in our opinion overruling the motion to dismiss, the Colorado claims which
the decree recognizes and confirms are the only ones in
virtue of which diversions may be made as against Wyoming and her appropriators. Claims not so recognized
and confirmed are excluded. It follows that the diversions just described contravene the decree and infringe
Wyoming's rights under it. They were being practiced
when the present suit was begun and for a time thereafter, but when the motion to dismiss was overruled they
were discontinued pending further action by us. Counsel
for Colorado now assure us in their brief that the State
does not propose to permit a resumption of these diversions if we hold as we now do, that they contravene the
decree. Because of this assurance, which we accept, there
is no present need for granting an injunction in respect
of these diversions.
Another complaint is of the diversion of water through
the Wilson Supply ditch from the headwaters of Deadman Creek, a tributary of the Laramie. The substance
of the complaint is (a) that there has been no appropriation under which this diversion may be made, and (b)
that, even if there has been such an appropriation, the
Wilson Supply ditch recently has been enlarged and is
now made the means of diverting more water from the
headwaters of Deadman Creek than was included in the
appropriation. Neither phase of the complaint is tenable.
The decree in the earlier suit (260 U. S. 1), distinctly
recognizes ar.1 confirms the existence of an appropriation
enabling "the State of Colorado, or anyone recognized by

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

her as duly entitled thereto," to divert and take from the
headwaters of Deadman Creek "the relatively small
amount of water appropriated therefrom prior to the year
1902 by and through what is designated in the evidence as
the Wilson Supply ditch." Wyoming is bound by this
finding and adjudication. While the appropriation is
there described as including a "relatively small amount of
water" the record in that suit, to which the decree refers,
shows that the appropriation is of 2,000 acre feet of water
per annum-a relatively small amount when contrasted
with the other appropriations of 18,000 and 4,250 acre
feet which the decree recognizes in its next preceding
parts. The decree is to be taken as if the exact amount
of this appropriation were written into it.
While the evidence bearing on the alleged enlargement of the Wilson Supply ditch is conflicting, we are
persuaded by it that what was done was more in the
nature of repair than of enlargement. But this is not
very material; for the evidence convinces us that the
water diverted from the headwaters of Deadman Creek
through the ditch has not been in excess of 2,000 acre
feet per annum, the amount of the recognized appropriation.
It is well to state with some emphasis that what we
have just said relates to the appropriation through the
Wilson Supply ditch from the headwaters of Deadman
Creek. The need for this statement arises out of the
fact that other water which forms no part of this appropriation, but is part of the natural flow of Sand
Creek, is carried by the same ditch from Sand Creek to
Sheep Creek. Sand Creek lies between Deadman Creek
and Sheep Creek and for a part of its length is used
as a section of the Wilson Supply ditch. We are not here
concerned with the diversion or appropriation of the
water naturally flowing in Sand Creek.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

It is further complained that the diversions made under
the meadowland appropriations which are recognized and
confirmed in the decree are excessive, in that, while the
decree fixes the amount of these appropriations at 4,250
acre feet per annum, the actual diversions thereunder
have ranged from 36,000 to 62,000 acre feet per year. In
the answer Colorado does not deny that waters greatly in
excess of the amount fixed in the decree are taken from
the stream into ditches leading to the meadowlands where
it is to be applied, but asserts that after the water is
applied the greater part of it returns to the stream
through surface drainage and percolation and that the
part actually consumed does not exceed the amount fixed
in the decree.
It is apparent from the opinion in the earlier suit that
4,250 acre feet was fixed as the measure of these appropriations because the water is appropriated for the irrigation of 4,250 acres of native-hay meadows and one acre
foot per acre is deemed sufficient for that purpose whenthe water is rightly and not wastefully applied.
The evidence shows that the water is being applied to
the native-hay meadows by a process of continuous flooding whereby 10 or more acre feet are put on each acre
during the irrigating season of 50 or 60 days. That this
is a distinctly wasteful process is obvious. It is true that
when water is so applied a considerable portion ultimately finds its way back into the stream unless the place
of application be remote from the stream or in another
watershed, which is not the case in this instance. But
it is also true that a material percentage of the water is
lost by evaporation and other natural processes and that
there is no way of determining with even approximate
certainty how much of the water returns to the stream.
Colorado insists that the decree, in fixing the measure
of these meadowland appropriations, refers to the

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

amount of water consumptively used and not to the
amount taken from the stream into the ditches leading to
the place of use. The thing dealt with by the decree
is described therein as the right "to divert and take"
from the stream and its tributaries a designated amount
of water. We think these words refer to the water. taken
from the stream at the point of diversion, and not to
the variable and uncertain part of it that is consumptively used.
As it is plainly shown that diversions are being made
under these meadowland appropriations in quantities
largely in excess of the amount fixed in the decree, we
think an injunction should issue forbidding further departures from the decree in this regard.
Another complaint is that the diversions under the
Skyline ditch appropriation and those under the LaramiePoudre tunnel appropriation have been and are in excess of the quantities accredited to them by the decree.
In the answer Colorado admits the charge in respect of
the Skyline ditch appropriation; denies that the diversions under the Laramie-Poudre tunnel appropriation
have been in excess of the quantity accredited to it; and
asserts that, with the possible exception of the year 1929,
the total diversions under the recognized Colorado appropriations have been at all times within the aggregate
of the quantities accredited to them severally, and that,
consistently with the decree, she lawfully may permit
diversions under any of the recognized appropriations in
excess of its accredited quantity so long as the total
diversions under all do not exceed the aggregate of the
quantities accredited to them severally. It is a necessary
conclusion from the answer that all of the actual diversions have been made with Colorado's permission express
or implied.
The evidence respecting diversions under the Skyline
ditch appropriation and under the tunnel appropriation

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

is conflicting; and this is true of the evidence respecting
the total diversions under the recognized Colorado appropriations. After considering all of it, and such admissions
as are made in the answer, we reach the conclusion that
the diversions under the Skyline ditch appropriation have
exceeded the quantity named in the decree, the excess
ranging from 1,000 to 5,000 acre feet per year; that the
diversions under the tunnel appropriation have closely
approached, but have not exceeded, the quantity fixed in
the decree; that the total diversions under the recognized
Colorado appropriations, including those for the meadowlands, have uniformly exceeded the aggregate of the
quantities which the decree accredits to them severally;
and that, if the appropriations and the diversions for the
meadowlands be put aside, the total diversions under the
other appropriations have at times closely approached,
but at no time have exceeded, the aggregate of the quantities accredited to them as distinct appropriations.
We already have dealt with the excessive diversions
under the meadowland appropriations and have said that
an injunction will be granted forbidding any further departure from the decree in that regard. That injunction
will eliminate the excess in those diversions; and when
that is done the total diversions under the several appropriations will be, as has just been pointed out, within the
aggregate of the quantities which are accredited to them
severally by the earlier decree-and this notwithstanding the diversions under the Skyline ditch appropriations
are in excess of the quantity accredited to it.
We therefore must consider the contention made by
Colorado that, consistently with the decree, she lawfully
may permit diversions under any of the recognized appropriations in excess of its accredited qVantity, so long as
the total diversions under all do not exceed the aggregate of the quantities accredited to them severally.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

In both Colorado and Wyoming water rights acquired
by appropriation are transferable, in whole or in part,
either permanently or temporarily; and the use of the
water may be changed from the irrigation of one tract
to the irrigation of another, if the change does not injure other appropriators.' The rules in this regard are
but incidental to the doctrine of appropriation. That
doctrine prevails in both States and the decree in the
earlier suit was based on it. It was not the purpose
of that suit or of the decree to withdraw water claims
dealt with therein from the operation of local laws relating to their transfer or to restrict their utilization in
ways not affecting the rights of one State and her claimants as against the other State and her claimants.
We perceive no reason for thinking that it is in any
wise material to Wyoming and her water claimants
whether the water in question is diverted and conveyed
to the place of use through the Skyline ditch, the Wilson
Supply ditch or the ditches of the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel Project. All are trans-mountain ditches and deliver
the water in the Cache La Poudre Valley, which is in
another watershed.
The diversions through the trans-mountain ditches in
the quantities here shown are made with the consent of
the owners of the water rights and with the full sanction
of Colorado. Therefore as respects the present question
the situation is not different from what it would be had
the owners of the other claims formally transferred parts
of their water rights to the Skyline owners. The appropriations remain as they were when the decree was
entered and are still limited to the quantities which it
'Sieber v. Frink, 7 Colo. 148, 154; 2 Pac. 901; Strickler v. Colorado
Springs, 16 Colo. 61, 68, et seq.; 26 Pac. 313; Frank v. Hicks, 4
Wyo. 502, 523; 35 Pac. 475, 1025; McPhail v. Forney, 4 Wyo. 556,
560; 35 Pac. 773; Johnston v. Little Horse Creek Irrigating Co., 13
W'yo. 208, 225, et seq.; 79 Pac. 22.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
573

Opinion of the Court.

accredits to them. But the Skyline owners are now permitted by the owners of the other claims and by Colorado
to take and use part of the waters included in those
claims. Wyoming and her claimants are in no way injured by this. No departure from the decree is involved.
The thing which the decree recognizes and confirms is
"the right of the State of Colorado, or of any one recognized by her as duly entitled thereto, . . . to divert and
take" the water included in the designated appropriations.
We are accordingly of opinion that in the circumstances here shown the Skyline ditch diversions do not
constitute an infraction of the decree.
In the brief for Wyoming we are asked to adjudicate
the relative rights of the two States and of their respective citizens to divert and use the waters of Sand Creek,
a small interstate stream, which is not a tributary of
the Laramie. (259 U. S. 490.) The bill contains no
showing in respect of these rights, there is no prayer
in it for their adjudication, and they are not relevant to
the controversy which it presents. We therefore must
decline to consider them at this time.
In the bill it is complained that Colorado, although requested so to do, has refused to permit Wyoming to
install measuring devices at the places of diversion for
the purpose of ascertaining the amount of water being
diverted in Colorado from the river and its tributaries,
and there is a prayer for a decretal order permitting such
installation. The evidence bearing on this matter hardly
can be regarded as establishing the propriety of such
an order, and yet it tends to show a need for improving
the means aid methods of measuring the diversions, for
keeping accurate and complete records thereof, and for
according to the representatives of Wyoming full access
to both the measuring devices and the records. Recognizing this need, Colorado in her brief assures us that

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

through her officers she will accord to Wyoming's officers
free access to the measuring devices and to the registering
charts, records, and other available data, will co6perate
freely with them in devising an appropriate plan for
measuring the diversions, and will give full consideration
to such suggestions as they may make respecting the improvement of the measuring equipment. In this situation the order which is asked would be inappropriate.
While the problem of measuring and recording the diversions is a difficult one, we entertain the hope that the two
States will by co6perative efforts accomplish a satisfactory solution of it. But we think Wyoming should have
leave to apply to us for an appropriate order in the matter
if the two States are unable to agree and it is found that
there is real need for invoking action by us.
For the reasons given in this opinion we conclude that
the only relief to which Wyoming is now entitled is an
injunction forbidding further diversions under the meadowland appropriations of more than 4,250 acre feet per
year measured at the headgates through which the water
is diverted.
Such an injunction will be granted, Wyoming will be
given leave to apply later on for an appropriate order
respecting the measurement and recording of all diversions in the event the two States are unable to agree and
there is need for action by this Court, jurisdiction of the
cause will be retained for the purposes of such an application, and the costs will be taxed one-half to each of the
two States.
It is so ordered.

