OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
298 U. S.

Syllabus.

the belief of the defendants, reasonably entertained, an
inspection of the books is still material and necessary,
the propriety of such a remedy may be reconsidered by
the master and the court in the light of the entire situation developed at that time.
The decree should be modified in accordance with this
opinion, and as modified affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of the case.

HILL, WARDEN, v. UNITED STATES
WAMPLER.

EX REL.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 847.

Argued May 4, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. A federal court imposing a fine in a criminal case may in its
discretion direct that the defendant be imprisoned until the fine
is paid; such direction, being an exercise of the judicial function,
must be expressed in the sentence. P. 463.
2. The only sentence known to the law is the sentence entered upon
the records of the court-the judgment. P. 464.
3. If a sentence has been entered inaccurately, it may be corrected
in a direct proceeding; but when assailed collaterally it imports
verity and the presumption that it says what the judge meant
is irrebuttable. P. 464.
4. A commitment departing in matter of substance from the judgment back of it is void and its nullity may be established upon
habeas corpus. P. 465.
5. To a sentence of fine and imprisonment was added by the commitment prepared by the Clerk a direction that the imprisonment continue until the fine was paid. Held:
(1) That such addition to the sentence 'ould not be justified
by a usage in the District or by unrecorded instructions from the
judge to the clerk. P. 465.

HILL v. WAMPLER.
460

Opinion of the Court.

(2) An order of the court refusing to strike the added direction from the commitment was not binding, as res judicata, in a
proceeding by habeas corpus to test the legality of the continued
confinement after the term specified in the sentence had expired.
P. 466.
RESPONSE to questions certified in relation to an appeal to the court below from a judgment of the District
Court, 11 F. Supp. 540, discharging the relator on habeas
corpus.

Mr. Gordon Dean argued the cause and Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Mr. William W. Barron filed a brief, for Hill, Warden.
Mr. Robert E. Lynch for Wampler.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By an indictment in two counts the relator Wampler
was charged with an attempt to evade and defeat the
payment of his income tax under the laws of the United
States through the filing in the years 1930 and 1931 of
false and fraudulent returns. He was convicted in the
United States District Court for the District of Maryland. On December 28, 1933, the judgment of the court
was pronounced as follows: "Fine five thousand dollars
and eighteen months in penitentiary on each count of
the indictment, said terms of imprisonment to be computed as beginning this 28th day of December 1933; fines
to be cumulative and terms of imprisonment to run concurrently and that traverser pay costs of proceedings."
On the same day the clerk of the court issued and forwarded to the United States Northeastern Penitentiary
at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, a commitment in which the
judgment was set out as follows: "That the traverser pay
a fine of Five Thousand Dollars and be imprisoned in
the United States Northeastern Penitentiary at Lewis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

burg, Pennsylvania, for eighteen months on each count
of the indictment; said term of imprisonment to be computed as beginning this 28th day of December 1933; the
fines to be cumulative and the terms of imprisonment
to run concurrently; and that the traverser pay the costs
of prosecution; and in default of payment of said fines
and costs, he stand further committed until the payment
of said fines and costs or until discharged by due process
of law."
On April 21, 1935, when the term of eighteen months
was approaching an end, Wampler filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland a petition directed to the judge of that court in which he alleged that the court had not adjudged or ordered that he
was to stand committed until the payment of the fine
and costs; that this provision had been inserted in the
commitment by the clerk; and that it was no part of
the sentence. He prayed for an order amending the commitment by striking therefrom the words so added.
On April 25, 1935 the petition for amendment was
denied, the judge filing an opinion in which he pointed
out that Maryland is a common law state; that the practice in the state courts is not to include in the judgment
of the court the express direction that the defendant
stand committed until the fines are paid; that it has
always been the practice in the District Court for the
District of Maryland to follow the procedure in the state
court, but that the clerk of the court has instructions
from the court to include in the commitment the express
provision that the defendant stand committed until the
fines are paid, unless otherwise directed.1 There was no
appeal from that decision.
On July 23, 1935, the relator filed in the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus' alleging that the
'See 10 F. Supp. 609, 611.

HILL v. WAMPLER.
460

Opinion of the Court.

proper term of his imprisonment had- expired and that
his detention had become unlawful. The petition was
granted, and the relator discharged. 11 F. Supp. 540.
The warden of the penitentiary appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. That court after
certifying the facts substantially as summarized above,
requested our instructions upon the following questions
(Judicial Code, § 239; 28 U. S. C. § 346):
"1. Was the provision in the commitment for imprisonment for nonpayment of fine and costs which was
inserted by the Clerk but not included in the sentence
orally pronounced by the judge, (a) void? or (b) merely
irregular?
"2. Was the determination of the District Court on
the petition to correct the commitment, a final judgment
conclusive on the issue as to the validity of such commitment until reversed by appropriate proceedings for review?
"3. Will habeas corpus lie in one court to correct the
commitment of another court which certainly, definitely,
and specifically directs the imprisonment of relator for
nonpayment of fine and costs on the ground that such
provision was inserted by the Clerk, but was not the
sentence orally pronounced by the Court?"
The payment of a fine imposed by a court of the United
States in a criminal prosecution may be enforced by execution against property in like manner as in civil cases.
R. S. § 1041; 18 U. S. C. § 569. In the discretion of the
court the judgment may direct also that the defendant
shall be imprisoned until the fine is paid. Ibid.; and see
R. S. § 1042; .18U. S. C. § 641; Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727, 737; Ex parte Barclay, 153 Fed. 669; Haddox v.
Richardson, 168 Fed. 635, 639. If the direction for imprisonment is omitted, the remedy by execution is exclusive. Imprisonment does not follow automatically upon
a showing of default in payment. It follows, if at all,

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

because the consequence has been prescribed in the imposition of the sentence. The choice of pains and penalties, when choice is committed to the discretion of the
court, is part of the judicial function. This being so, it
must have expression in the sentence, and the sentence is
the judgment. Miller v. Aderhold, 288 U. S. 206, 210;
Wagner v. UnitedStates, 3 F. (2d) 864; State v. Vaughan,
71 Conn. 457, 458; 42 Atl. 640; Manke v. People, 74 N. Y.
415, 424.
Two of the questions certified to us, the first question
and the third, make mention of a variance between the
commitment and the sentence "orally pronounced." If
that were the only variance, we should deem it unimportant. The only sentence known to the law is the sentence or judgment entered upon the records of the court.
Miller v. Aderhold, supra; Wagner v. United States, supra; Manke v. People, supra. If the entry is inaccurate,
there is a remedy by motion to correct it to the end that
it may speak the truth. People ex rel. Trainor v. Baker,
89 N. Y. 460, 466. But the judgment imports verity
when collaterally assailed. Ibid. Until corrected in a
direct proceeding, it says what it was meant to say, and
this by an irrebuttable presumption. In any collateral inquiry, a court will close its ears to a suggestion that the
sentence entered in the minutes is something other than
the authentic expression of the sentence of the judge.
The questions are to be read, however, in the light
of the preliminary statement certifying the facts out of
which the questions have arisen. Rule 37; Stratton's
Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 422; Dillon
v. Strathearn S. "S.Co., 248 U. S. 182, 184. From that
certificate it is clear that the sentence spread upon the
records is identical with the sentence orally pronounced
and that the only variance complained of is between
sentence and commitment.' In such circumstances the
'In United States v. Wampler, 10 F. Supp. 609, 611, the court
said: "The judgment as entered on the docket by the clerk recites

HILL v. WAMPLER.
460

Opinion of the Court.

word "orally" in questions 1 and 3 may be disregarded
as superfluous, and the answers to the questions made as
we would make them if the word had been omitted.
A warrant of commitment departing in matter of substance from the judgment back of it is void. Boyd v.
Archer, 42 F. (2d) 43; Wagner v. United States, supra.
Being void and not merely irregular, its nullity may be
established upon a writ of habeas corpus. People ex rel.
Trainorv. Baker, supra; Boyd v. Archer, supra; McNally
v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131. "The prisoner is detained, not by
virtue of the warrant of commitment, but on account of
the judgment and sentence." Biddle v. Shirley, 16 F.
(2d) 566, 567; Howard v. United States, 75 Fed. 986,
989; Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 422; People ex rel.
Trainor v. Baker, supra. If the judgment and sentence
do not authorize his detention, no "mittimus" will avail
to make detention lawful.
The argument is made that there is a practice in the
Maryland District to make the commitment broader than
the judgment, and that the practice should be given
the quality of law. There is no such overriding virtue
in usage or tradition. The court speaks through its judgment, and not through any other medium. It is not
within the power of a judge by instructions to a clerk
to make some other medium the authentic organ of his
will. We are told that the instructions may be likened
to a rule of court. They were not published; they weie
not reduced to writing; they are lacking in the formal
safeguards that protect against mistake and perhaps
against oppression. Cf. Rio Grande Irrigation Co. v.
Gildersleeve, 174 U. S. 603, 608; Weil v. Neary, 278 U. S.
the term of imprisonment and the amount of the fine or fines, as announced in the sentence but does not recite the commitment in default of payment of the fine. This has been the long established
practice, and was followed in this -particular case."
65773*-36-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

160, 169. There are times when settled usage is as efficacious as a written rule to fix the forms of practice.
United States v. Stevenson, Fed. Cas. No. 16,395; Norton v. Rich, Fed. Cas. No. 10,352; Detroit Heating &
Lighting Co. v. Kemp, 182 Fed. 847. A court will be
cautious in applying such a doctrine where liberty is at
stake. But here the traditional instructions have a defect more deep-seated than the absence of a writing.
Taken at their face value, they fall short of the effect
imputed to them. They do not profess to regulate the
form or content of the sentence, which is to be recorded
by the clerk without addition or amendment. They are
aimed at the commitment, at that and nothing else, imparting to it a capacity, a superseding virtue, unknown
to the law. Something more is needed than a few words
of unrecorded talk between a judge and a prothonotary
to compass that result.
The refusal to modify the warrant of commitment is
not a bar to the relief now prayed by the relator. Finality within the doctrine of res judicata does not attach
to every ruling upon law made by a judge upon the decision of a motion. Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S. 489,
499; Riggs v. Pursell, 74 N. Y. 370, 378; cf. American
Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156, 166. This is true
though the ruling may have been pertinent or even necessary to the conclusion reached. In such circumstances
finality will rarely be extended beyond the terms of the
order, and applied to the supporting reasons. There is
nothing in this case to call for a departure from the
general rule.
A warrant of commitment spends its force, it fulfills
what is at least its primary purpose, upon delivery of
the prisoner at the place of his imprisonment. When
"a prisoner is safely in the proper custody, there is no
office for a mittimus to perform." People ex rel. Trainor
v. Baker, supra; Howard v. United States, supra. Even

HILL v. WAMPLER.
460

Opinion of the Court.

after such delivery, the warrant is convenient evidence
for the protection of the jailer, but it may be lost or
destroyed, anl detention may be justified by the underlying judgment. Ibid.; and see Ex parte Wilson, supra.
The effect of an order refusing an amendment is to be
adjudged with due regard to the character and office

of the thing to be amended. At the time of that order
the relator was lawfully imprisoned, the term of eighteen
months being still unexpired. At the time of this petition the term was at an end, and imprisonment from
then on had been turned into a wrong. The commitment was neither better nor worse because of the ruling
of the judge that he would let it stand as written. If
void, it was still void; if valid, it had received no accession of validity. What was said by the judge in the
course of his opinion may be significant as a precedent;
it is ineffective as a bar. The writ of habeas corpus
searches the record back of the commitment. It lays a
duty on the court to explore the foundations, and pronounce them false or true.
We answer the questions submitted to us as follows,
interpreting them, however, as explained in the opinion:
To the first question we say that the provision is void.
To the second question we answer "no," and to the
third question "yes."
Ordered accordingly.

